27-07-2020||Mumbai||Centre gives nod to radio-collar five leopards in Mumbai||The Union environment ministry has approved a proposal to study the movement of leopards in and around Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) in Mumbai by radio-collaring (GPS collar) five leopards.Forest minister Sanjay Rathod on Monday announced the development and said, “The satellite telemetry study will help us understand leopard movement and behaviour, human-leopard correlation, how these animals use congested human-dominated landscape, and most importantly, how conflict can be reduced. It can develop a model for other parts of the state.” Till date, no leopard in and around SGNP has been radio-collared. This would be the first project planned at a forest close to a large metropolitan area.First discussed in 2016, the Maharashtra forest department had approved the proposal by Wildlife Conservation Society (WCS), India for the two-year project in August 2019. A memorandum of understanding was signed soon after. “However, since leopards are schedule 1 species under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, an approval was needed from the Centre to commence the project. We received the approval last week. WCS India has indicated that the project will commence in January 2021,” said Nitin Kakodkar, principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife).The cost of project is ₹62 lakh, of which the state will fund ₹40 lakh and the remaining will be borne by WCS-India. “The project implementation also depends upon the release of funds by the state,” said Kakodkar. GPS collars work by sending a signal to a satellite, which obtains the time and date of the signal sent from the collar. This information is then shared with researchers who can then investigate where the animal is and what it is doing.There are 47 free-roaming leopards in and around SGNP and Tungareshwar Wildlife Sanctuary. In 2017, there were 41 leopards, 35 in 2015 with an average of eight to 10 leopards moving outside the periphery of SGNP. Aarey Colony in Goregaon has at least six leopards. “The study will shed light on how leopard population is changing in and around SGNP with new leopards documented during census study and some animals missing or not identified at all in previous ones,” said Sunil Limaye, additional principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife west).According to the proposal, the study would monitor the density of leopards in SGNP and Tungareshwar Wildlife Sanctuary, their movement outside protected areas such as Ghodbunder Road, Nagla Block, and Aarey Colony, and check for population parameters such as turn-over rates, survival, dispersal and movement within this landscape. “The study will also help understand the dispersal pattern of leopards through corridors extending from Mumbai region to Tansa and Malshej Ghat,” said Limaye.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/centre-gives-nod-to-radio-collar-five-leopards-in-mumbai/story-T8ht2D8nQDZo6M2FMBqh2H.html
27-07-2020||Mumbai||Not interested in bringing MVA govt down: Fadnavis||In the first meeting of the newly appointed state executive of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday, former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis clarified that his party was not interested in bringing the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government (MVA) down, but in a jibe, also asked the ruling parties to run the state, instead of just crying foul. BJP president J P Nadda, who addressed the meet, asked party workers to be committed to get power in the state on its own strength in the future. He also asked them to actively expose the failures of the state government. “The BJP is not interested in bringing this government down. We are focussing on tackling Covid-19. The ruling government should stop crying and try to at least run the government,” said Fadnavis, in his concluding virtual address. He also taunted chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who in an interview to his party mouthpiece, Saamna, had said that his government may be a three-wheeler, but he held its steering wheel. “An autorickshaw is driven as per the wishes of the passengers and not the driver. That’s the only way the autorickshaw driver will earn his daily income. This government is going in three different directions, at the cost of Maharashtra,” said Fadnavis. Nadda underscored the Modi government’s efficiency in handling the pandemic, even as he slammed the state’s failure. The national BJP president said the timely decision to impose a lockdown in the country averted a major loss of life, unlike Europe and the US. “Party workers must effectively reach out to common man and communicate the work done by the Centre and aggressively expose the failures of the state government,” said Nadda. State party president Chandrakant Patil also addressed party workers and reiterated the need to come out effectively as a party against the MVA government’s failures, from handling the pandemic to farmers’ issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/not-interested-in-bringing-mva-govt-down-fadnavis/story-F9gHRJUh8puHhk2RKWHL5H.html
27-07-2020||Chandigarh||65-year-old woman sets self on fire after altercation with neighbours in Tarn Taran||A 65-year-old woman set herself on fire after an altercation with neighbours over the construction of her house in Bhail Dhai Wala village of Goindwal Sahib subdivision, on Monday. A police team was present at the spot at the time. The woman, Balbir Kaur, along with her family members, had allegedly encroached upon a part of the street, which led the neighbours to raise the matter with the panchayat.“Around 4pm, Balbir’s daughter-in-law Kuljit Kaur lodged a complaint with the 112 helpline stating that one Sumit Singh had attacked them,” said Goindwal Sahib station house officer (SHO) Harwinder Singh, adding that a team was immediately dispatched to the spot. “When the team reached there, they saw a crowd gathered there. After a few minutes, Balbir and her daughter-in-law came out of their house and the former poured petrol over herself and set it alight.” She was rushed to the hospital, where doctors said she suffered more than 50% burns. The woman, her daughter-in-law, son Manjit Singh and granddaughter Harman Kaur have been booked under Sections 309 (attempt to commit suicide) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/65-year-old-woman-sets-self-on-fire-after-altercation-with-neighbours-in-tarn-taran/story-9JhFhPdg2byb9cPAIVVDWK.html
27-07-2020||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: Rao’s family writes to home minister, seeks update on his health||Family members of veteran Telugu poet P Varavara Rao, who is arrested in connection with the Elgar Parishad case, have approached Maharashtra home minister seeking updates on Rao’s health. The family, in the letter written on Monday, stated, “It is inhuman and unethical to withhold the information about Rao’s health to his anxious family. It is very clear that the jail authorities have regular updates about Mr Rao’s health.”The family claimed that since Rao has been taken to the hospital, they have been trying to call both the jail and hospital authorities regularly but have not received any update.When Rao’s daughter tried to contact the authority at Nanavati Hospital, she was told that they have informed the jail administration and that she should approach the jail authorities for the same. However, jail authorities later asked them to approach the hospital. Citing this, the family said, “It is a mystery why this information is not passed on to the family by the jail authorities.”The family further said that “Rao is an undertrial prisoner in your custody and the jail authorities have the responsibility to give us regular updates or instruct Nanavati Hospital to release regular health bulletins.”They have now requested the home minister to intervene and direct Taloja jail authorities or Nanavati Hospital to provide regular updates on Rao’s health status, the diagnosis of his health problems and line of treatment to the family.The family had, on Friday, approached the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) over the issue.In the letter to NHRC, Rao’s wife P Hemalatha and his daughters P Sahaja, P Anala, P Pavana asked NHRC to intervene and direct the state government and prison authorities to give periodic update on Rao’s health and share details of the treatment with the family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-rao-s-family-writes-to-home-minister-seeks-update-on-his-health/story-PulIR9NIBYQ9BOQR4ZYQhP.html
27-07-2020||City||Gurugram: Discom calls for action against 25 unauthorised colonies within a month||Gurugram: The Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited (DHBVN) has asked the department of town and country planning (DTCP) to take action against 25 unauthorised colonies, or it would be compelled to suspend power connections in these areas. In its letter, the discom has mentioned the names of the localities and asked the DTCP to take suitable legal action within a month.The letter, by the sub divisional officer of Badshahpur, dated on July 9, states that unauthorised colonies have come up near Bhondsi, Sehjawas, Nayagaon, Rithauj and Badshahpur. The colonies mentioned in the letter are Shriram Enclave, Bhajan Park, Mohan Nagar, Shyam Kunj, Lakshmi Kunj, Shanti Kunj, Shani enclave, Krishna Kunj, Vatika Kunj, Sneh Vihar, Keshar Nagla, opposite BSF Colony, near Ryan School colony, Shiv Colony, Rama Enclave, Om Kunj, Govardhan Kunj, Bhoop Singh Nagar, Bhawani Enclave, Prem Kunj, Sohan Nagar, Dev Nagar I and II, Gajraj Colony, RBSM Colony and Vaishnav Colony.“A detailed affidavit as well as an indemnity bond shall be taken from all such consumers stating clearly that they shall be liable for any legal action regarding the nature of their premises by the urban local bodies department or DTCP or Panchayat department or any other legal authority as the case may be. Of course, release of the connection shall, in no way whatsoever, entitle such power consumers to strengthen their claim for regulation of their premises/ colony,” the letter stated. The letter assumes significance on account of the fact that the DTCP has been carrying out large-scale demolition drives across the city in the last eight-to-nine months to prevent mushrooming of unauthorised colonies. It is because of this reason that the state government has now banned the registration of property deeds across the state as has been observed that illegal registrations of small plots has allegedly been taking place, which led to development of unauthorised colonies. RS Bhath, district town planner, who is also the incharge of the enforcement department, said that action has already been taken in most of the colonies that have come up in these areas. “In the coming days, we are planning demolitions on a larger scale to curb unauthorised constructions and development of unauthorised colonies. This will send a clear message that unauthorised development will not be allowed in the city,” he said. A sustained campaign against unauthorised colonies is being carried out in the city as it causes losses to both, the state in terms of revenue as well as home buyers, who end up staying in areas with poor infrastructure, said Makrand Pandurang, director, town and country planning while speaking on the issue on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-discom-calls-for-action-against-25-unauthorised-colonies-within-a-month/story-7woNDSSQz94eRdwFlxJRnL.html
27-07-2020||Gurugram||Masked men snatch cash, motorcycle at gunpoint||Three unidentified suspects allegedly snatched a motorcycle and cash at gunpoint from a motorcyclist on Basai Road near Chandu village, a few metres from the Sector 102 area on Saturday night, said the police. The police said the victim did not lodge a complaint at the time of the incident as he was scared. An FIR was registered on Sunday after the victim and his friend called the police control room. According to the police, the incident took place around 10.30pm when the victim, Nitish Saini and his friend, Arun Rohilla, were on their way on a motorcycle to their residence in Garhi Harsaru in Sector 10, after visiting a friend’s warehouse in Dhankot. The police said three suspects, wearing masks, who were also riding a motorcycle, blocked their path near a farm on the road between Chandu and Dhankot. In the police complaint, Saini, said, “Two of the suspects snatched the keys of my motorcycle and my phone. A third suspect aimed a gun at me. They also took ₹2,000 in cash from me and asked us to return home on foot. They threatened to kill us if we reported the incident. I did not inform the police earlier as I was scared.” A police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “The suspects are yet to be identified. The victims were unable to note down the registration number of the motorcycle used by the suspects.” A case has been registered against the unidentified suspects under sections 379 A (snatching) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Rajendra Park police station on Sunday, said the police on Monday. In another incident, two motorcycle-borne men allegedly snatched gold chain of a 67-year-old woman in Sector 38 on Sunday. The police said the woman had stepped out of her house to feed stray animals around 9am when the suspects drove past her on a motorcycle. The suspects then returned and the man riding pillion alighted from the motorcycle and snatched the gold chain before escaping with his aide. Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, “The suspects were wearing helmets and police is checking CCTVs in the area to trace them.” A case was registered under Section 379 A of IPC at Sadar police station on Sunday, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/masked-men-snatch-cash-motorcycle-at-gunpoint/story-Hkn93JVtiAkLepw1iaopUL.html
27-07-2020||Chandigarh||Amalgamation of plots: Rules revised, marla property owners of Chandigarh to gain most||In a major relief to city residents looking for amalgamation of two or more more plots, the UT administration has notified the Chandigarh Building Rules (Amendment), 2020, which supersedes the amendment rules of 2018.In 2018, the administration had allowed amalgamation of two or more plots under same ownership. Later, the administration had stopped giving permission to applicants as a dispute had arisen over whether the covered area and floor area ratio (FAR) of the new amalgamated plot was to be allowed or for the original smaller sized plots amalgamated.Through the new notification, the amalgamation of plots are allowed with no change in original FAR. Moreover, there will be no change in building lines. “In 10 marla plots where amalgamation is allowed, 70% coverage area will be allowed in both plots and in case of 1 kanal plots, only 50% coverage will be allowed. With this clarification, marlas plots will get the benefit of excess coverage area which was earlier withheld by the urban planning department,” said Vikas Jain, a city-based advocate.RECONSTITUTION CHARGES REDUCEDThe administration, through the new notification, has also reduced the charges for reconstitution of the amalgamated plots. As per the 2018 notification it was 10%, now it has been reduced to 5%. “In case, the amalgamated plot is to be reinstated to its original category, then the charges at 5% of the prevailing rates of the size amalgamated plot will be applicable,” reads the 2020 notification.The development control regulations applicable, that is, category of plot, zoned area, coverage norms, etc., will be as per the size of the plots before the amalgamation. However, the existing covered area and FAR of the plots under amalgamation should be applicable as per the original category of the plot.The owner concerned will have to maintain front and rear building line as per the original category of plots for ensuring uniform street picture in view of the adjoining plots. For rear coverage in non-standard plots, for example corner plots, the applicant will have to seek zoning plans from the UT chief architect.In case of residential sites falling in the marla category, the building controls/frame control, wherever applicable, will continue to be applicable and no changes whatsoever will be permitted in the external facades, elevations, projects, and building set back lines.AMALGAMATED UNITS SHOULD APPEAR DISTINCTThe frame controls/outer facade controls must also be maintained in such a way that the amalgamated plots do not appear to be a single unit but as distinct units of the original.The UT estate office will sanction the amalgamation of sites only if no-dues are pending against the site. Once the permission is granted by the estate office, then the revised building plans will get approved by the owner as per the revised zoning plan or prevailing norms as per the requirement of the case.The processing charges for amalgamation of residential plots have been fixed at ₹10,000. The scheme will continue to be governed by the prevailing provisions including the other conditions of the Chandigarh Estates Rules, 2007.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amalgamation-of-plots-rules-revised-marla-property-owners-of-chandigarh-to-gain-most/story-QBBWPPSPIwHMO9zAXr6VpK.html
27-07-2020||City||City’s rental housing market remains stunted due to Covid-19 pandemic||Gurugram In the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, the city’s rental housing market -- recognised as one of the most lucrative housing markets in Delhi-NCR -- is decelerating. Experts and property owners have attributed the new trend to returning of salaried professionals, most of who are allowed to work from home, to their native towns and only a few takers for rental properties in the city. With the older lease agreements expiring every month, an increasing number of tenants are choosing to leave the city, even if just for the time being. “Most are young or middle aged professionals in corporate jobs. They make up the bulk of my business, and across Gurugram it is the professional class that drives the demand for rental housing,” said Kuldeep Khokri, who owns a property brokerage firm in Palam Vihar. “Corporate professionals don’t want to stay back in this atmosphere, and new people are not shifting here for work. This month, I made only 50% of the deals as compared to March,” he added. With most corporate offices in Gurugram enforcing work from home practices for the foreseeable future, many professionals in the salaried segment say they do not find it financially viable to continue renting a house in the city. Harinder Cheema, who works with a city-based corporate law firm, said, “I have been allowed to work from home till at least December. So I came back to my parents’ house in Chandigarh. I am in no hurry to return to Gurugram. I’m saving money and there’s a sense of security, being with family during the pandemic.” Some property agents have now begun adjusting their rates in hope of procuring more clients. Kartar Adhana, an independent broker operating in and around Sector 29, was earlier charging 15 days’ rent amount from clients as brokerage. “Now, I have started charging only 10 days’ rent as my fee. Since I do the business on my own, I can cut the fee a little. But many brokers in the city are actually middlemen who work for big property dealers. They are the ones who are really stuck,” Adhana said. At least a dozen other brokers, either employed at small firms or providing services to them independently, and who rely on fixing rental deals as their main source of income, complained of work having dried up. They feared a much longer wait for business to pick up than they had anticipated during the Covid-induced lockdown. “We thought that business will pick up after lockdown, once the metro and offices open up. This hasn’t happened. New lease agreements are not being signed at the same rate. I am looking for other work now,” said 24-year-old Dev Yaduvanshi, who works part-time in the Sikanderpur area, showing vacant homes to prospective tenants for established brokers.The slowing down of rental market has also forced landlords to renegotiate rents with existing and newer tenants. Dheeraj Dagar Chaudhury, a property owner who rents out builder-floor homes in Sushant Lok, said, “One of my lessees is vacating the home at the end of this month, and I have not been able to find a new tenant. This has not happened in five years since I started giving it out. In another case, I brought down the rent of a 2BHK house in Sushant Lok to Rs 20,000, because the tenant is facing some financial problems after salary cuts. I was charging Rs 25,000 earlier.” These testimonies stand in sharp contrast to a January’s report, which pegged Gurugram as a key market for rental housing in Delhi-NCR. An analysis by real estate consultant Anarock showed that the rental yield — or annual return on investment — for most rental properties in Gurugram was 3.5%, higher than the national average of 3%. In Delhi, the rental yield at the time stood at 2.2%. The report also showed that 45% of real estate investments in Gurugram happened with the view of earning rental income from the property after purchase.“Those who have invested in property with rental yield in mind should reconcile to a longer wait before they can recoup the investment. There will be a lot more empty homes now, and that will drive down prices further,” said Khokri, anticipating that things will remain this way until work from home practices continue at corporate offices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/city-s-rental-housing-market-remains-stunted-due-to-covid-19-pandemic/story-Jzksfm7AFZNgG5JXRmIMvM.html
27-07-2020||Mumbai||Glimpse at Indian matchmaking in the real world||Sima Aunty or Sima Tarapia, the woman with the starring role in the docu-series Indian Matchmaking, is being called the stuff of nightmares. The Netflix show is meant to be a behind-the-scenes look at how arranged matches are orchestrated. But it’s so carefully curated that there’s never a mention of dowry, and yet plenty of the gossip, drama, judgement and heartbreak that make any reality show work.So what’s it like in the real world? How much did Indian Matchmaking get right, what did the show get wrong, and how much did they leave out altogether?The fundamentals, it would appear, remain largely unchanged on the surface, but the details do look different. A ‘good’ education used to mean Convent school, now ‘nothing below a Masters will work’ says matchmaker Deepika Godiawala. A good family still means one with ideally no crime records, divorce records, or children born out of wedlock. A good paycheque is ‘a must’ even for women who must cease to work as soon as they marry. Young and good looking are now variable; well-cultured is still listed, but is variable too –it can mean multi-lingual, practised in the fine arts, and sometimes just money will do.One thing that has changed is that parents’ preferences tend to take a backseat to the preferences of the offspring looking for a spouse. This can make it harder to predict the parameters, matchmakers say. “Back in the day, it was easier — girls would go for education and family background and boys would go for looks. Then you factored in job, business family etc,” says Godiawala, who ran the Parichay bureau in Ahmedabad till she retired two years ago.The agency is now run by her protégé, Ami Shah. “Suitors are now looking for ‘matching wavelengths’ and ‘mental connection’,” she says. “It’s not easy to measure or assess such a thing from just the biodata.”The vanity checklist — age, height, weight, complexion (read skin tone) and good looks – still holds. Caste remains a factor, as do matching horoscopes. Vegetarian or non-vegetarian or pure vegetarian has become trickier, since young Jains may eat this and that, and traditionally pork- or beef-averse communities may have offspring that are not so averse.Type of job has become a more complex differentiator too. How many countries have you lived in? Do your ambitions include an overseas stint? These are questions that are now a significant part of the conversation.The Taruni Shroff Marriage Bureau caters to upper-middle-class and high-net-worth clients in the Gujarati, Jain and Marwari communities and says location is a differentiator too. A family from the city and a suitor from the suburbs? There’s no point even trying to get them to meet halfway.With HNI clients, a lot more work goes into each meeting anyway. “You have to match the location, coordinate time slots, placate larger egos,” says Zameer Shroff, who inherited the bureau from his aunt. Which party will make the first call, for instance, is highly discussed and negotiated.The idea of the housewife is fading in this category, Shroff adds. “We’ve begun to decline to take cases if the man is looking for a homemaker and a guarantee she won’t work. It’s difficult to find such a match in the circles we work in.”In an aside, Shroff explains the hierarchy within this slice — “First-generation share trading and diamond trading are considered volatile businesses, and if you’re a freelancer like many media professionals are today, then it’s difficult to get a match.”“In India, marriages are breaking like biscuits,” Sima Aunty proclaims, on the show, and yet matchmakers agree universally that divorced people are far, far more difficult to match. And divorced women with children, next to impossible. “Singles over 32 are open to meeting divorcees,” says Hitesh Chhabria who runs the Soulmeet marriage bureau for Sindhis and Punjabis. “Overall, people are less picky about age. The woman doesn’t always have to be younger. Cross-ing 30 no longer moves you automatically to the back of the line.”Where earlier only the parents would talk to the matchmaker, now the spouse-to-be often coordinates directly too. A 28-year-old woman who signed up with Shroff six months ago says she spoke to Zameer for half an hour, to explain what she’s looking for — an equal partner, essentially; someone she won’t have to babysit. She studied and worked in Australia for three years before returning home to Gujarat to join the family food processing business. Her filters include well-travelled, respectful towards service people, and able to handle a crisis in business or in life. “I’ve had a couple of virtual meetings, but it has not worked out yet,” she says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/glimpse-at-indian-matchmaking-in-the-real-world/story-tvy2vpTCCxFUPBKHppoNCJ.html
27-07-2020||Gurugram||Antigen testing camps come to condominiums, townships||Over the last two weeks, the health department has started conducting rapid antigen testing camps on the request of residents at several townships, condominiums and societies across the city. Till now, 10 such camps have been organised in places such as Sushant Lok 1, DLF Phase 1, and sector 47 to trace new Covid-19 cases, according to the health officials.Residents, housekeeping staff, security guards and domestic helps are mostly tested in these camps. Health officials said an elaborate plan was in the offing to cover maximum ground with such camps in as many townships as possible. “Even if a single family in a condominium tests Covid-19 positive, we plan to set up a camp within the premises of the township to cover as many people as possible,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer.“There is no restriction on the people coming for testing. It can be domestic helps, drivers, estate officers among others, who are part of the society. Through antigen detection test, we can cover more people in less time, as the test can deliver results in 15-30 minutes. More kits have been ordered for the purpose,” said Yadav.In Gurugram, more than 38,000 antigen kits have been used, out of which almost 11,00 have tested positive. The antigen diagnostic test detects proteins attached to coronavirus or within it by testing the sample collected from the nasal cavity using swabs. The antigen test, however, may not detect all active infection since it is not specific as Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) tests. Therefore those who are symptomatic but antigen-negative are required to be tested through the frontline RT-PCR test.Officials said that the rationale behind conducting such camps in townships, condominiums, societies is to ensure a larger number of people are tested for Covid-19 which not only helps in forming a more accurate assessment of the spread of the virus in the city but also helps in undertaking swift treatment interventions for people who have tested positive. On Monday, one such camp was conducted at the clubhouse of Bestech Park View Spa Apartments in sector 47, in collaboration with officials of Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) on the behest of residents. Health department officials tested 100 people including residents, people from nearby areas, domestic helps, security guards, housekeeping staff at the camp for the virus. Of the 100 people tested, 82 tested negative for the virus. One resident of Rosewood City in sector 49, a visitor, however, tested positive for the virus, and he was put under home quarantine immediately. Seventeen other people, who tested negative for the virus during rapid antigen testing but exhibited symptoms, were also tested for the virus through RT-PCR method and their results will be revealed in the next 48 hours.“We have been conducting such camps across the city since the start of the month, primarily in large outbreak regions (LORs). Now we have received directions to carry out such camps in other parts of the city as well to ensure more people are tested for the virus and put in home quarantine or in hospitals for treatment as and when needed. A resident of sector 49 tested positive for the virus during Monday’s testing and he was sent home immediately. We have been regularly following up with him since then,” said Hardeep Kaur Saluja, medical officer, health department and in-charge of urban primary health centres (UPHC).Kaur was conducting the camp at Bestech Park View Spa Apartments in sector 47. “Since these camps are not being conducted in LORs, where the chances of cases emerging are much higher, the scale of testing is much lower. In LORs we are testing around 2,000 people every day, but in specific residential areas, testing of 100 people is sufficient,” she said.Sukhbir Palta, a resident of the condominium who had placed the request with the health department for setting up a testing camp, said there were several reasons for people of his locality being tested.“We have a sizeable number of people who are senior citizens and some have comorbid conditions. They aren’t necessarily in a position to venture out and get themselves tested for Covid-19. In addition to this, a lot of our staff and domestic helps are also coming to the condominium from various parts of the city and interacting with each other. As a precautionary measure, we requested the health department to conduct a camp in our neighbourhood,” said Palta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/antigen-testing-camps-come-to-condominiums-townships/story-pNNWx5lNubb7nkdL2o7JmK.html
27-07-2020||Gurugram||DTCP sends notices to developers of affordable housing projects for delay in completion||The department of town and country planning (DTCP) has issued notices to eight real estate developers of affordable housing projects in the city for slow pace of construction work and missing the deadline by nearly 15 to 18 months. The department asked the developers to expedite the construction work as a large number of homebuyers have complained about the slow progress despite making timely payments. In addition to this, the department had also issued notices to 18 other developers who had missed a review meeting on affordable housing projects held on July 16. In view of the issues raised by home buyers, the department has directed all the developers to submit a progress report of the construction work after every 15 days. There are 80 licenced projects in the affordable category in the city, out of which, only eight have been delivered to the buyers and occupancy certificates(OCs) have been issued so far, said officials. The affordable projects were launched in the city under the new affordable housing policy introduced by the government in 2013. As per this policy, a housing project has to be completed within four years from the date building permissions are granted to the developer. Officials said that around half of the affordable projects were lagging behind in the progress of their construction work. Affordable housing projects in the city are mostly located in sectors 103, 99A and Sohna Road. Ravi Sihag, senior town planner, Gurugram, said that notices have been issued to developers for slow pace of work and they have been asked to expedite construction work. “They have also been asked to provide updates on the progress of construction work every 15 days so that their progress can be monitored,” he said. The department also said that it has taken into account the complaints lodged by the home buyers regarding excessive charges demanded by the developers on various accounts. The issue was raised by the home buyers during a meeting called by Badshahpur MLA on Sunday at John Hall. “The issues pertaining to excess charges being demanded by the developers is a serious matter, We will analyse all of its aspects and send our recommendations to the headquarters for an early resolution,” said RS Bhath, district town planner. Affordable home buyers have been repeatedly complained against the developers for demanding maintenance charges from them, which they allege is against the government policy. The DTCP, however, maintains that there is an ambiguity at the policy level in this regard and has promised to seek clarity on the issue from higher authorities. Reacting to the delay in the completion of the affordable housing projects in the city, a home buyer, seeking anonymity, said. “We have been repeatedly asking our developer to complete the project as we are forced to live on rent while paying EMI at the same time. However, things are not moving.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/dtcp-sends-notices-to-developers-of-affordable-housing-projects-for-delay-in-completion/story-dv3zkYI976kvUGqYSzLDrL.html
27-07-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram Police arrests four members of a gang for duping people on LGBTQ dating app||The Gurugram Police arrested four members of a gang from Sector 40 on Sunday night for allegedly duping at least 300 people via a mobile dating app for the LGBTQ community by taking inappropriate photos and blackmailing them to pay huge sums of money. The police said they had arrested the mastermind earlier this month and were tracking movements of four others, who were based in Delhi. The four members were on way to meet another victim on MG Road on Sunday, when they were nabbed, said senior officers and investigators associated with the case. The suspects were identified as Sunder Kumar alias Sagar, Pushp Kumar alias Piyush, Vinod Messy alias Kake and Rahul Kumar alias Pehalwan staying in different parts of Delhi. The police recovered mobile phones and cash from their possession. The alleged mastermind in this case, Jaswinder Singh, aged 23, a resident of Faridabad was arrested earlier. The police said Rahul is a gym trainer and an aspiring model, Vinod is a cab driver, and Sunder and Pushp are mechanics, who also deal in car accessories near Nizamuddin. They also worked as part-time cab drivers. Earlier, in February, HT reported that the city police had busted another similar racket. At least 50 senior executives — including CEOs — of companies based in the National Capital Region (NCR) were among the 150 people who fell victim to the members of that gang over the past three months. In a similar modus operandi, the gang members befriended victims on a popular LGBTQ dating app and blackmailed them with intimate pictures. The latest gang was busted after a preliminary inquiry was made into a snatching complaint by a 24-year-old executive, who did not reveal the exact manner in which he was duped out of fear of stigma. When the police investigated the matter, it was found out that the executive was cheated by the gang members, who befriended him on the dating app in June this year.Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that the victim cooked up a story and tried to mislead police, following which investigation was carried out. “We arrested one of the suspects from Faridabad, who spilled the beans and revealed that he is a part of a five-member gang, which had duped several people in Delhi-NCR over the past year for lakhs after befriending them on the dating app,” he said. The probe revealed that the gang had made their profiles on the dating app and used to move around in their cars. They used to go together to meet the victims and offered them sexual services. “They used to charge anywhere between ₹10,000 and ₹15,000 from the victims and one of them used to record the act. Later they used to blackmail the victim and extort money,” said Sangwan. They used to fix up a meeting after getting friendly with the victims and once they gained their confidence and victim assured them that their identities will be kept safe, they used to meet them at a place agreed upon mutually. “In the recent case, the executive called one of the gang members to Sohna Road in a commercial complex and finalised a deal for ₹11,000. Later, when the victim met the other gang members, he changed his mind and asked for services from another gang member who asked him to pay ₹15,000. The victim took him to a men’s washroom in the complex. Later when the suspect demanded the money, victim tried to negotiate, which led to a tiff. The gang members snatched his mobile phone and forced him to withdraw nearly ₹35,000 from an ATM kiosk,” said Sangwan. The police said the gang members used their original pictures on the dating sites and mentioned their original mobile numbers, which helped police to identify and nab them. The police said the gang used commercial complexes in the city during the lockdown to meet victims. Sometimes, they also met in one of their cars or used the empty office spaces, taking advantage of the lockdown. Police commissioner KK Rao said that they have arrested all the members involved in the case and have written to the dating app company to ensure that all app users are verified before their profiles are uploaded. “We have received only one complaint recently as people usually do not reveal such incidents out of fear of stigma. I want to appeal to residents to approach us if such incidents occur. We will keep their names and credentials secret and strict action will be taken against the suspects. Also, people should be careful while using these online dating applications,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-police-arrests-four-members-of-a-gang-for-duping-people-on-lgbtq-dating-app/story-76TWSUcyPZakbL2AzsM6FP.html
27-07-2020||City||Covid-19 claims 12 lives, 551 new infections recorded in state||In the biggest surge in Covid-19 cases to date, Punjab recorded 551 fresh infections across the state on Monday in addition to the 12 virus-related fatalities. With this, 318 people have lost their lives due to the virus, while the state’s patient tally has gone up to 13,769.Among the fatalities, five were reported from Ludhiana, two from Patiala and one from Amritsar. In terms of fresh cases, state’s industrial hub Ludhiana continues to lead the tally with 136 new infections recorded on Monday, followed by 69 cases from Doaba region, 51 from Gurdaspur, 42 from Patiala and 41 from Amritsar districts. Thirty-two people were found infected in Mohali, 31 in Bathinda, 19 in Tarn Taran, and 14 each in Faridkot and Sangrur districts. For the sixth consecutive day, Ludhiana district’s patient tally stayed above 100. There was concern among the members of Lodhi Club after its gym coach Rakesh Kumar tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday. Sixty-nine people tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Doaba region comprising Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar districts. In Jalandhar, 44 individuals tested positive, while 15 infections were detected in Hoshiarpur, eight in Kapurthala district and two in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar. Two died, while 42 tested positive for coronavirus in Patiala district on Monday. Former minister, sons test positive Former minister Surjit Singh Kohli and his sons — former Patiala mayor Ajitpal Singh Kohli and Gurjeet Kohli —tested positive for coronavirus on Monday. Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said of the 42 infections, 24 are from Patiala city, four each from Rajpura and Nabha, two each from Samana and Patran and six from different villages of the district. Thirty-one people tested positive for Covid-19 in Bathinda on Monday. Civil surgeon Dr AS Sandhu said 27 were residents of Bathinda district and four were migrant workers. Eight people tested positive in Muktsar district, while six were found infected in Mansa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-claims-12-lives-551-new-infections-recorded-in-state/story-zEo7Jgq95sNY40Rwi77HlO.html
27-07-2020||City||Four arrested for killing former cop||Rohtak police on Monday claimed to have solved the murder case of a former cop with the arrest of four persons. The accused are Sunil, Rajkumar, Dharambir and Nathuram of Khedi village in Meham. Virender Kumar, who was terminated from services, was abducted from outside the local court complex on July 24 by at least seven car-borne persons and later, his body was found on the outskirts of the city. Addressing a press conference, DSP (headquarters) Gorakhpal Rana said the victim and accused had a dispute over a land near their village. “A court case was also filed and the accused party had won it. After the verdict, the victim had attacked the accused and subsequently, an FIR was registered against him,” he added. The victim had on July 24 come to the court for his bail hearing when he was abducted and later murdered by the accused. Meanwhile, Rohtak SP Rahul Sharma has placed three police personnel — ASI Roshan, head constables Dinesh and Ramphal — under suspension for negligence in performing their duties. They were on duty at the court complex on the kidnapping day of the victim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-arrested-for-killing-former-cop/story-RJlc9o3eoarlbE9CP07eUL.html
27-07-2020||Mumbai||CM says he has steering wheel, Ajit tweets photo in driver’s seat||Hours after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said he is in firm control of the “steering wheel” of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) — a coalition government comprising the Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress, his deputy Ajit Pawar of the NCP sent him wishes for his 60th birthday on Twitter with a picture of the two leaders with Pawar in the driver’s seat. At the stroke of midnight on Sunday, Pawar tweeted the picture of him at the wheel of a golf cart and CM Thackeray in the passenger’s seat. Pawar, who was among the first to wish the CM, caused a flutter in the political circles with the mischievous picture. “Best wishes to the Hon. CM of Maharashtra, Shiv Sena Party President & Maha Vikas Aghadi Leader, Shri. Uddhav Thackeray ji. Wish you a healthy & long life!” Pawar tweeted. Thackeray, in an interview to Rajya Sabha member and Saamana executive editor Sanjay Raut, published on Sunday had said, “The future of my government is not in the hands of the Opposition... It is a strong government and I am at the steering wheel with two other partners. A three-wheeler (rickshaw) is a vehicle of poor people.” Later in the day, Pawar went to Thackeray’s residence Matoshree in Bandra to wish the CM on his birthday. Both leaders, according to party insiders, chatted for a few minutes. Reacting on the tweet, Raut said, “I saw the picture, that’s alright. He might have the steering but we provide him with the cars.” He added, “He has a lot of experience with steering wheels. From time to time, he keeps on checking the oil and other things for the Maha Vikas Aghadi car to keep going faster.”Former chief minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis taunted Thackeray on steering wheel comment and said that rickshaw drivers do not decide the destination. “He said that he has the autorickshaw’s steering in his hand but Uddhav ji forgot to say that where the rickshaw will go is not decided by the driver, but the passengers sitting behind. If the rickshaw does not go to the passenger’s destination then the driver does not get his fare,” Fadnavis said during a party event in Mumbai.Calling it a display of the silent tussle between the two top leaders in the government, political observers say it could continue. Political analyst Surendra Jondhale called it “political indecency” on Pawar’s part. “There is some amount of restlessness to show who is more decisive and assertive, as the two leaders have different styles of functioning. It is unfortunate that Pawar chose to put out such a picture. There should be some kind of political decency. One should not take it lightly, as it is impolite and indecent,” he said. Earlier in July, Thackeray made sure he got back five Sena corporators, who had defected to the NCP in the presence of Pawar, back into his party fold. His deputy had presided over the entry of the Sena corporators into the NCP, which did not go down well with Thackeray, as he made his displeasure known to Pawar. “There must be some friction due to that [episode] too, but (Ajit) Pawar should not forget that Thackeray has direct access to Sharad Pawar. He (Ajit Pawar) has never hidden his vaulting political ambition, but this is not the opportune moment to bare such thoughts amid the pandemic,” Jondhale added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cm-says-he-has-steering-wheel-ajit-tweets-photo-in-driver-s-seat/story-NtJCj8ao3cMgcZpte6ylBJ.html
27-07-2020||Mumbai||Activist questions scope of work; CEO says didn’t share data||RTI activist Saket Gokhale, who brought to light the alleged appointment of an agency run by a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader, Devang Dave, to manage a social media page of the chief electoral officer (CEO) of Maharashtra during last year’s Assembly elections, has raised questions over the scope of work allotted to the agency. Gokhale alleged that not only was the appointment in conflict of interest, but the work allotted to it was also with the intention of muzzling the voice of the Opposition. Gokhale on Monday tweeted contents of a government resolution issued in October 2017, describing the scope of work. He alleged the agency, Signpost, was not just responsible for social media posts, but also data targeting and neutralising negative sentiments against then ruling BJP government. He alleged there was a possibility of compromise of personal information related to voters. CEO Baldev Singh said, “The allegations are denied in toto. Signpost’s role was limited to social awareness of voters, there was no question of sharing any other data. DGIPR has scrutinised and confirmed that Signpost has no political link. The impression created by Gokhale that Dave and his company were given contract is baseless.” The Office of CEO Maharashtra later tweeted to clarify that DGIPR had appointed Signpost India Pvt Ltd owned by Dave and not the Socialcentral Solutions. In a series of tweets on Friday, Gokhale alleged that CEO, Maharashtra appointed Signpost India Pvt Ltd, which was controlled by Dave, who was the BJP’s information technology and social media cell head. Gokhale alleged Signpost India Pvt ltd and Dave’s Socialcentral Solutions share same office address and Dave on his profile page admitted to having worked for the CEO, Maharashtra. Signpost India was empanelled by DGIPR. Congress leader and former chief minister Prithviraj Chavan then wrote to the chief election commissioner of India demanding a thorough inquiry. Dave in his tweets on Friday had admitted that he controls Signpost and Socialsentral Solutions, which are located on the same address. Dave refused to speak on the issue on Monday.Dilip Pandharpatte, director general, DGIPR, said, “In our internal assessment, we have found that Dave was not linked with Signpost, the agency empanelled by us. We do not qualify any agency linked with any political party, but it is difficult to track indirect or discreet links.” Maharashtra BJP’s vice-president Madhav Bhandari said, “The allegations are related to DGIPR and office of CEO, Maharashtra, and not against us. The Congress should conduct a probe.” Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant tweeted that taking the issued raised by Gokhale forward, the party will unearth some very serious revelations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/activist-questions-scope-of-work-ceo-says-didn-t-share-data/story-bejbPOVoFw37MtvnerkECN.html
27-07-2020||City||Over 5,000 employees of Noida authority to undergo Covid-19 test||NOIDA The Noida authority has decided to conduct Covid-19 test of all its permanent and temporary employees to identify the infected staff and provide them treatment at an early stage, officials said.To begin with, the authority on Monday organised a testing camp at its main administrative building in Sector 6. The drive is expected to be completed in a week, the officials said, adding that the testing will be done using rapid antigen kits. The drive will cover about 1,200 permanent employees, including top officials, and nearly 4,000 temporary employees, who are engaged in jobs like sanitation and supply of essential goods, the officials said.“On day one, 132 employees were tested. Of which only one employee, who is an assistant junior engineer, was found positive. The administration is taking required action in this regard to ensure the infection can be prevented,” said SC Mishra, senior project engineer, Noida authority. The Noida authority has its water department office building in Sector 5, horticulture department office in Sector 39 and engineering department office in Sector 19, and other smaller offices.“We aim to test all of our employees in the next one week or so. The camp will cover both the permanent and temporary staff members,” said Mishra.On Monday, among senior officials, two additional CEOs and three officers on special duty (OSDs) also tested negative. Last month, five employees of the authority, including one OSD level officer, had tested positive, but all of them have recovered.Residents’ welfare associations, apartment owners associations and other social groups were demanding that those employees, who are engaged in sanitization, waste collection and supply of essential goods in containment zones, should be tested as they are vulnerable to the infection. The district administration is already taking help of RWAs and AOAs in organising camps to conduct rapid antigen tests to identify the positive cases early. “We have requested all social groups to help us organise camps for the rapid antigen tests. The objective is that testing and treatment should not be delayed at all,” said Narendra Bhooshan, nodal officer for Covid-19 preparations in the Gautam Budh Nagar district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/over-5-000-employees-of-noida-authority-to-undergo-covid-19-test/story-5ZUMeVt7HflvVCYXlk2AaI.html
27-07-2020||Noida||Noida: Since May, Covid deaths per month have increased but fatality rate has gone down||Gautam Budh nagar witnessed its first Covid positive case on March 8. Till April 30, the number of cases had multiplies to xx but there no deaths reported from the district.The first patient succumbed to the virus on May 2, with more than 40 others dying due to the virus till date, when the number of cases stood at xx.  Figures now, however, show that the fatality rate among Covid patients, seen on a monthly basis, is on the decline.Official figures show that the number of deaths had been on the rise every month from May. While as many as seven deaths were reported out of a total of 315 positive cases in May (2.22%), in June 15 more deaths were reported out of a tally of 1,851 positive cases (0.81%), while 18 more deaths were reported out of a total of 2,482 positive cases till July 26 (0.72%).District chief medical officer, Dr Deepak Ohri, said that despite the increase in Covid-19 deaths every month, the fatality rate has gone down drastically, which was a good sign. “It clearly indicates that our sampling rate and recovery rate have been increasing day by day. In the past week, no fresh death was reported due to Covid-19 in the district. Not only that, Gautam Budh Nagar has the lowest mortality rate among all districts of the state,” he said.According to district magistrate Suhas LY, all measures are being taken to increase surveillance and minimise the fatality rate. “Due to continuous efforts of our doctors and paramedics, the district has one of the lowest case fatality rates (CFR), of 0.8%, in the country. Only about 15% of active cases are there in the district, while around 85% of the total positive cases have recovered. We are trying to give the best possible drugs and treatment to all patients irrespective of their financial position,” he said.“Plasma therapy has also been used successfully by GIMS and recently, a private plasma bank was set up in Noida, which will also provide free plasma to economically impoverished patients. We have sufficient physical infrastructure (such as beds) and human infrastructure (doctors and paramedics) to take care of our residents,” he added. The DM further said that in July, the testing rate in the district was among the best in the country. “We are testing more than 3,000 samples per day, which translates to 1,500 per million per day. Previously, when the infection rate had gone up, we had reached a positivity rate of up to 15% or more. But now, due to extensive containment, testing and isolation, it has reduced to around 5%, which is a significant reduction,” he said.Suhas also said that infection has been on a receding trend in the recent past. “On Friday, testing camps were held in sectors 41, 75, 93, 121 and 134, and a total of 677 antigen tests were conducted, of which there were no positive cases. This does not mean that the city is free from the pandemic. But it definitely indicates that we can control the infection’s curve and reduce the positivity rate, if we follow measures of containment and basic protocols properly,” the DM added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-since-may-covid-deaths-per-month-have-increased-but-fatality-rate-has-gone-down/story-MJ0POiSI02BBQFDJmKFupO.html
27-07-2020||Mumbai||Lockdown effect: Metro-7, 2A and MTHL work delayed||The outbreak of Covid-19 has delayed the city administration’s plans for a smoother commute by around six months, as a result of the lockdown which has disrupted work on the Metro and the Mumbai trans-harbour link (MTHL). According to the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority’s (MMRDA) revised estimate, trial runs for Metro-2A (Dahisar-DN Nagar) and Metro-7 (Dahisar East -Andheri East) is likely to be in December 2020 and the lines may be operational by May 2021. The two Metro routes, which are part of the 337-kilometre (km) master plan for the Metro, were initially expected to be operational by December this year, with trial runs being conducted in September. MTHL, a 22km long sea bridge connecting Mumbai and Navi Mumbai, may also see a delay of six months. RA Rajeev, metropolitan commissioner, MMRDA, said the delay is largely due to the lockdown imposed to curb the spread of Covid-19. BG Pawar, joint metropolitan commissioner, MMRDA, said, “The timelines are still being worked out. It might be completed before time, if we get adequate workforce.” Owing to the lockdown, the authority is also facing a shortage of workers, many of whom returned to their villages in other parts of the country. The supply chain of material and machinery has also been severely affected. For instance, in case of MTHL, while more than 5,000 workers were available at the site prior to lockdown, there are 2,247 workers at the project site in July. “The manufacture and transportation of steel spans that were required from foreign countries has been affected. Till June, around 27% work on all packages had been completed,” an official from MMRDA said on condition of anonymity. The Metro work has been divided into three packages. For Metro-2A, or the yellow line, MMRDA has completed 85% of the civil works. For Metro-7, or the red line, 79% of the civil works have been completed. Track laying for both corridors have commenced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/lockdown-effect-metro-7-2a-and-mthl-work-delayed/story-JPpnoFjj4GpS935OLDPQcL.html
27-07-2020||City||Heavy rains predicted in next three days||Noida The city and its adjoining areas are likely to receive heavy rains on Wednesday and Thursday, officials of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Monday. The national capital region (NCR) saw moderate to heavy rainfall on the first few days of last week. However, due to the weather conditions the region has turned dry since Friday last week. Weather analysts have asserted that the monsoon line of trough – a low-pressure line that oscillates around Delhi and brings rains to the region – which is currently over northern foothills will move back towards Delhi-NCR by Tuesday night. This will lead to moderate to heavy rains across NCR, including Noida and Ghaziabad, they said. “Tuesday may see light rains across several pockets of the region, including Noida and Ghaziabad. However, as the monsoon trough line will oscillate around Delhi-NCR from Tuesday night and Wednesday morning, we can expect heavy rainfall on July 29 and 30. The region may see an overall moderate rainfall for next three to four days at least,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD. The rainfall below 15mm is considered light, between 15 and 64.5mm is moderate and above 64.5mm is heavy. The Gautam Budh Nagar district has seen deficit rainfall of 91%, and has received only 17mm rainfall since June 1 against expected 197.3 mm. The neighbouring Ghaziabad too saw a rainfall deficit of 69% and has received 60.7mm rainfall against expected 197.3mm. The weather department predicts temperature to fall as well due to the rains. “The temperatures may also fall by at least three to four degrees from July 29 onwards,” Srivastava said. On Monday, the maximum temperature was recorded at 37.6 degrees Celsius, three notches above the season’s average, against 36.2 degrees Celsius a day earlier. The minimum temperature was recorded at 28.2 degrees Celsius, same as a day earlier, IMD said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/heavy-rains-predicted-in-next-three-days/story-ErNs1j2YAsAdblJMk4GdmO.html
27-07-2020||City||Ex-NTPC official points extortion finger at trio held for murder||Three men who had been arrested by Kasna police nearly ten days ago have now been accused of extorting nearly Rs 35 lakh from a retired NTPC official and a second case has been registered against them at Beta 2 police station. The Bhati brothers — Devesh and Pankaj Bhati— and their accomplice Sunny had been arrested by the Kasna police in connection with the murder of 22-year-old Aditya Soni who had gone missing from the Site 5 industrial area on July 5. Aditya’s mother had filed a missing person’s complaint, which was later converted to a murder case. His body had been found in Mathura on July 11 after which the suspects had been nabbed. Police officials had said that Sunny was friends with the suspect and had had a drunken argument that turned ugly . The Bhati brothers were nabbed on July 13 while Sunny was nabbed on July 23.A day before Sunny’s arrest, the second victim, retired NTPC official Chhotan lal Sahay (61), had approached police.  “I retired from a managerial post in NTPC in April, 2019, after which I started property consulting for a few friends and acquaintances in Delta 1. The Bhati brothers and Sunny were also working as property dealers and that is how we came in contact. One day in September, they took me in their car on the pretext of showing me a property,” said Sahay. He said that the trio held him at gunpoint and threatened his family and demanded that he give them whatever cash he had in his account. “However, I told them that my account was joint with my wife’s and giving cash would not be possible. They took three post dated cheques from me worth Rs 16.2 lakh. Then they dropped me and warned me against reporting the incident to anyone,” said the victim. Eventually, the suspects, took nearly Rs 35 lakh from the victim, in various instalments. Sahay said that he was too scared to approach police and it was only after the arrest of the brothers was he was able to seek legal help. “His complaint came to us only a day before Sunny’s arrest. Soafter Sunny was nabbed, we were able to question him and he confessed to the whole thing. If it becomes necessary, we will take them on remand for more questioning,” said Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 3. He said that the money had been traced and a probe in the matter is underway.The suspects were booked at the Beta 2 police station under section 386 (extortion by putting a person in fear of death or grievous hurt) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ex-ntpc-official-points-extortion-finger-at-trio-held-for-murder/story-uCUZkSsFrTmsMANXndS6EK.html
27-07-2020||Noida||Noida: Covid patient molested by doctor recovering in same room, FIR registered||A 20-year-old woman, recovering from Covid, was allegedly molested by a doctor at the facility who was also a patient and was sharing her twin-bed room. The alleged incident took place on Monday morning at Jaypee Hospital in Sector 128.The woman, a graduate student of Delhi University, has filed a complaint with the Expressway police station after narrating her ordeal to her family members in the afternoon.“She was admitted to the hospital on July 21 and was to be discharged today. Just as her discharge papers were being processed, another patient was moved to her twin sharing room. We were against it, but because he was a doctor of the same hospital, we figured that it would be alright,” said the woman’s brother.In her complaint, it is stated that some time after settling in the room, the suspect allegedly started engaging her in a conversation.“He then started telling me about post Covid symptoms and spoke about various clots that one tends to have in various parts of the body. He then walked towards me and asked me to lie down. He then started touching me inappropriately,” said the woman in her complaint.Based on her complaint, a case was registered against the doctor at the Expressway police station under section 354 (Assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of the Indian Penal Code.“We have filed a case and a probe in the matter is underway. The suspect is himself a Covid patient and cannot be questioned immediately, but we are keeping tab on the situation,” said Yogesh Malik, station house officer, Expressway police station.Officials from the Jaypee Hospital said that the doctor worked with them part-time.“We are fully co-operating with the authorities regarding the investigation. He works here part-time and is currently undergoing treatment here. Police are now looking into the matter,” said a spokesperson of the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-covid-patient-molested-by-doctor-recovering-in-same-room-fir-registered/story-yiJap5yIk4rV3URigF6VdO.html
27-07-2020||Delhi||Gang that cheated people by promising to arrange large loans busted||The Delhi Police on Monday said they had busted a gang of cheats who posed as high-profile persons, with links to senior politicians, and cheated businessmen and professionals in the guise of helping them get large loans. Five men, including the gang’s kingpin and an alleged employee of the All India Congress Committee’s (AICC) headquarters in central Delhi, have been arrested for cheating a businessman and a doctor of ₹50 lakh after offering to help them secure loans amounting to ₹50 crore and ₹25 crore respectively, senior police officers associated with the operation said. The racket’s mastermind Ritesh Tiwari impersonated a highly placed government servant and claimed to have access to the personal secretary to the Union home minister, the deputy commissioner of police (crime) Rajesh Deo said. “Tiwari deceived his potential targets by showing off his lavish lifestyle. He would call them to a farmhouse in south Delhi, which he had rented, and pretend that some high-risk category VVIPs stayed there. Apart from parking high-end cars, the men had employed bodyguards. He would travel in a convoy with two Gypsies as pilot and escort vehicles for his Fortuner SUV ,” said DCP Deo. The police said that Tiwari would pay ₹5 lakh per month as rent for the farmhouse and ₹1,200 to each bodyguard per day. The vehicles parked in the farmhouse were rented, they said. The other arrested members of the gang were identified as Ajay Jain,50, Bhim Pandit,54, whom the police claimed worked at the AICC headquarters, Bhaskar Nath,25, and Aman Kashyap,53, whose father had also worked in the AICC office for sometime a few years ago. Pandit allegedly helped the other members of the gang access the AICC headquarters. The Fortuner, two Gypsies, and mobile phones used in the crime were seized by the crime branch team, the police said. When contacted regarding the arrest of Bhim Pandit, Manish Chatrath, secretary, AICC, said, “The person concerned is not employed at the AICC office. However, I will verify this once again on Tuesday.” DCP Deo said that two separate cheating and forgery cases were registered on the complaints of two persons who were cheated of ₹50 lakh by the gang members. During the probe, the DCP said, the suspects were identified and their modus operandi unearthed. The key players – Ritesh Tiwari and Ajay Jain – would look for potential victims who needed large loans and meet them at luxury hotels, clubs and even the offices of political parties, said Deo. “The suspects would convince the victims that they were highly connected and would get their work done easily. The victims were called to the farmhouse where they were searched and frisked before being allowed inside. Their phones and wallets were also taken. Further, the requisite documents were collected from the victims and they were asked to wait for a confirmation call,” said an investigator, who did not want to be named. A few days later, the officer said, the loan-seeker would get a call to convey that his loan had been sanctioned. The gang members would trick the loan-seekers into paying ‘stamp duty’. “After the payment, the cheats would start avoiding the victims,” the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/gang-that-cheated-people-by-promising-to-arrange-large-loans-busted/story-49jxjUkaBBnJE5Vec8l5gM.html
27-07-2020||Mumbai||Thackeray’s 60th birthday low-key affair; PM sends wishes||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who had decided to not celebrate his birthday on Monday due to Covid-19 crises, spent a low-key birthday amid official engagements. The Shiv Sena chief received birthday wishes from various leaders from across party lines. He also received a letter from Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi and a phone call from President Ram Nath Kovind.Thackeray, who turned 60 on Monday, had appealed to his followers and party workers to not celebrate his birthday. Party workers had, instead, set up blood and plasma donation camps at several places in Mumbai to mark the day. In an appeal last week, Thackeray had asked not to put up hoardings and spend money on garlands, and instead urged workers to contribute to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund on the occasion.In a letter tweeted by the chief minister’s office (CMO), PM Modi was quoted wishing Thackeray saying, “Birthdays are a time to reflect on the past and an opportunity to shape the future.” Thanking the PM, Thackeray said the PM’s “inspirational words” will guide him personally and Maharashtra towards a “brighter future”.The gesture and the choice of words by Modi suggested that the ties between the two leaders, who were once allies, are still cordial. Sena leader Sanjay Raut said, “Indeed, Modiji and Uddhavji share a good personal relationship. Sometimes in politics, certain decisions have to be taken as per the situation, but Maharashtra has shown that nobody should work with personal enmity in their minds in politics.”Raut also said the Sena chief should concentrate on national politics as well. “Uddhav Thackeray has ability for national leadership; I’ve seen this for many years now.”NCP chief Sharad Pawar; former CM Devendra Fadnavis; Union ministers Nitin Gadkari, Ram Vilas Paswan, Prakash Javadekar, and Rajnath Singh; Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Chouhan; West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee; NCP leader Supriya Sule were among others who wished the CM through social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/thackeray-s-60th-birthday-low-key-affair-pm-sends-wishes/story-zo5mw3OoG43S2jSluFKtjK.html
27-07-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Woman’s body found stuffed inside suitcase||Ghaziabad The police on Monday morning recovered the body of an unidentified woman, which was stuffed inside a suitcase, from New Hindon Vihar adjacent to GT Road. According to the police, the hands and legs of the deceased were tied with a dupatta. The woman appeared to be married and in the age group of 24 to 25 years, they said.“There were no external injury marks on her body, but her face had turned blackish which probably suggests that she died of suffocation. However, the exact cause of her death will be known only after the post mortem report comes in. It seems that she was murdered due to some family dispute,” said Manish Mishra, superintendent of police (city).“We have formed several teams to investigate the case. Information has also been sought from nearby districts about any missing person and also to ascertain her identity,” Mishra added.The woman was wearing a yellow coloured kurta with Mehandi in her hands and legs, the police said.The area from where the suitcase was recovered comes under the jurisdiction of Sahibabad police station. According to the police, they are scanning CCTV footage from nearby areas as they found marks of tyres of a car and a bike from near the place where the suitcase was found. The cops said that the murder probably took place on Sunday night and the suitcase was dumped at the spot during the early hours of Monday. The police received the information from locals around 7am on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-woman-s-body-found-stuffed-inside-suitcase/story-pR7MZrEl4TaxVZ26KkuUXP.html
27-07-2020||City||Ghaziabad proposes ‘extended containment exercise’ in areas bordering Delhi||Ghaziabad/New Delhi: In order to control spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease, the Ghaziabad district administration has proposed a concept of ‘extended containment exercise’ in Ghaziabad as well as in adjoining areas falling under the jurisdiction of the National Capital. On Monday, officials of the Delhi government, led by the Capital’s chief secretary, discussed measures with those from Uttar Pradesh in order to speed up control measures.Officials said the meeting was in line with a previous one held on July 17, when Niti Aayog member Dr VK Paul had visited Ghaziabad for a review of measures and strategies taken up by UP districts falling under the National Capital Region (NCR) to deal with the pandemic. Earlier, on June 18, Union Home Minister Amit Shah had held a video conference with UP and NCR officials and had called for a unified approach in all of NCR, including Delhi and Ghaziabad, to deal with the outbreak. “During the video conference held with Delhi officials Monday, we proposed that an extended containment exercise should come up in bordering areas of Ghaziabad and Delhi. It is so because the spread of infection is not restricted by geographical boundaries. Under this concept, if there is a containment zone in Ghaziabad near Delhi border, the Delhi authorities should also take up containment exercises in their areas to check the spread of the virus,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, Ghaziabad district magistrate.Anita C Meshram, divisional commissioner (Meerut), was also present in the meeting. “We have areas of Loni, Khoda and other localities in the trans-Hindon areas, which are close to the Delhi border. We already have a number of cases which have resulted due to cross border travel between Ghaziabad and Delhi. Earlier, we had enforced strict containment exercises in Loni, Khoda and Vaishali. As a result, there is a decline in the number of cases there. So, if there is a simultaneous containment exercise in Ghaziabad and adjoining areas of Delhi, both the cities will benefit,” Pandey added. He also raised a point for reserving beds in super specialty hospitals in Delhi for high risk patients from Ghaziabad. “Delhi officials said hospitals in Delhi are accessible for patients coming from Ghaziabad. They were very positive about the issues we raised during the meeting. Similar points were raised before Dr VK Paul when he and his team had come to Ghaziabad on July 17,” Pandey added. At present, Ghaziabad has had a total of 4,639 Covid-19 cases so far, which includes 64 deaths and 947 active cases. Pandey had last week announced another round of containment exercise in 21 areas which have 10 or more active Covid-19 cases. A special door-to-door survey was also directed by the UP government from July 2 to July 12 to trace cases of influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infections (SARI).According to officials, Ghaziabad on July 27 has about 275 containment zones and the number of category-2 zones (having more than one case or in cluster), about 189, have exceeded the category-1 zones (having one case), of about 86. On the other hand, senior Delhi officials who attended the meeting said the Covid-19 response strategy for NCR is flowing out of the comprehensive approach of the Niti Aayog for the region. “It is already well synchronised and considers the containment zones in totality. The existing strategy ensures that the containment of infection is achieved fully and totally. In the same spirit, the adjoining districts of Delhi were directed to ensure that containment zones in the border areas are envisaged and enforced in close coordination with their counterpart in UP. The Delhi administration hopes that this would be strictly enforced and followed by the UP administrations as well,” a senior official of the Delhi government said on condition of anonymity. On the issue of Ghaziabad’s demand of reserving beds in Delhi for their high-risk patients, a second senior official said that Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal has already ordered that all health facilities in Delhi are open to all the citizens of the country. “In compliance of the orders, all medical care institutions of Delhi have been treating Covid patients from different parts of the country, including UP and other neighbouring states,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-proposes-extended-containment-exercise-in-areas-bordering-delhi/story-jUGyqzjQsV8IHWEC9ssm7O.html
27-07-2020||Mumbai||Man stabs woman for rejecting his proposal||A 24-year-old man stabbed a 19-year-old woman with a knife, hit her with a hammer, and tried to kill himself by jumping off from the terrace of four-storey building at Khar (West) on Sunday afternoon. The accused, Mohammed Jahangir Faruk, attacked Prema Gabriel Dungdung after she refused his proposal for marriage. According to Khar police, both of them worked as house helps in the same society in Khar. “Faruk had proposed the woman a few months back but she had refused. On Sunday around 12.30pm, he called Dungsung to the terrace of the building and proposed to her again, but she refused,” said Gajanan Kabdule, senior inspector, Khar police station.He added, “This angered Faruk and he stabbed her with a knife four to five times and then hit her with a hammer. However, Dungdung managed to escape from the terrace.” Faruk then jumped off the building soon after. “Locals informed us about the incident soon after. We went there and shifted them to Sion hospital. We have booked the accused under section 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code and are investigating the case. We have also recovered the knife and hammer,” Kabdule added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-stabs-woman-for-rejecting-his-proposal/story-dDW9vc0HhbkerdajlJtCKL.html
27-07-2020||City||Ghaziabad: New govt policy, home isolation speed up discharge rate||The Uttar Pradesh government’s order on discharge of Covid patients and allowing home isolation for asymptomatic ones has come as a breather for officials who were scampering to open new L1 category hospitals to keep pace with the rise in the number of virus cases.The order over a period of seven days has also led to a drastic reduction in the number of beds being occupied at L1 category hospitals.The L1, L2 and L3 category hospitals were special dedicated Covid facilities that were opened by the state government in order to treat asymptomatic/mild, moderate and critical patients, respectively.According to official records till Monday morning, about 81% beds of 776 available in three L1 Covid hospitals in the district were vacant. The home isolation policy was allowed by the UP government on July 20, with the state administration a day later also issuing revised discharge guidelines, which helped more asymptomatic Covid-19 patients in going home, thereby freeing up beds in three L1 hospitals. At one point of time on July 17, the number of active patients in Ghaziabad had peaked tat 1,560 — the district’s all time high so far.“The number of active cases is coming down as more patients are getting discharged from L1 hospitals due to revised discharge policy. Earlier, the asymptomatic patients were getting discharged 10 days after their date of admission. Now, the asymptomatic patients are getting discharged patients on tenth day from the date of sampling. So, the new policy has benefitted as we have early discharge of 2-3 days as per the revised rules,” said an official from the health department. As a result of more discharges, the three L1 hospitals of ESIC Sahibabad (76 beds), Divyajyoti Hospital (350 beds) in Niwari and SRM College (350 beds) in Modinagar had only 54, 12 and 78 active cases, respectively, till Monday morning. The three hospitals at present have a combined discharge rate of about 80.76%, with total discharge of 1,404 patients out of the 1,715 admitted so far. The Divyajyoti and SRM Hospitals were opened only about a month ago. Prior to these, the CHC at Muradnagar and St Joseph Hospital at Nandgram were also admitting L1 patients, but were subsequently closed down. According to official figures, the three operational hospitals have referred a total of 176 patients to L2 and L3 hospitals so far. As a result of the revised discharge policy in place, the Ghaziabad officials in past five days (July 22 to July 26) have discharged 843 patients overall. The government’s nod for home isolation policy has also impacted in freeing up L1 Covid beds, as asymptomatic patients can now stay at home without having to get mandatorily admitted to L1 Covid hospitals. “The home isolation is slowly picking up. During the last three days we received about 99 requests from patients for home isolation and our response teams got in touch with them to ascertain their condition and also check the norms under which they can be home isolated. So far, we have about 81 asymptomatic patients who were found eligible for home isolation while the rest of the applications are getting processed,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. The list of 81 patients in home isolation include 18 under jurisdiction of Kavi Nagar police station area, 15 under Sihani Gate, nine each under Indirapuram and Kushambi police stations, 11 under Sahibabad and seven under Kotwali police station area, among others. After the two new rules were brought in, the district’s rate has shot up to an all time high of 78.43% out of 4619 total cases till July 26. The rate stood at 76.39% till May 31 (total 305 cases) and dropped to 45.69% till June 30 (1,615 total cases). At present, Ghaziabad district has 932 active cases (till July 26), a majority of which are in city areas. According to the records of the health department, the residential segment of Raj Nagar — comprising colonies like Raj Nagar, Sanjay Nagar, New Friends Colony, Govindpuram, Kamla Nehru Nagar, Panchsheel Primrose, Guldhar and Bhatta Number 5 — contain in them the highest number — 109 — of active cases till July 26. The second highest number of active cases, 93, are under the residential segment of Karhera-2, which has localities like Indirapuram, Kanwani and Makanpur. The Sahibabad-2 segment is at third spot in terms and has total of 76 active cases till July 26. The segment includes colonies like Raj Bagh, Shalimar Garden, Shyam Park, Rajendra Nagar, Lajpat Nagar and Shalimar Garden Extension etc. “With active cases now on the decline, we do not need to open more L1 hospitals but we will continue for some more time with the existing L1 category hospitals. The ESIC Hospital is on way to getting converted to an L2 category hospital,” Pandey added. ”If we need to open more L1 hospitals, we have several facilities having total of 800 L1 beds which can be opened up in a day,” he added. Box1: ESIC Hospital at Sahibabad: Total patients: 645; Discharged: 521 ; Referred: 70; Active cases: 54 Divyajyoti Hospital at Niwari: Total patients: 623; Discharged: 570; Referred: 41; Active cases: 12 SRM College at Modinagar: Total patients: 447; Discharged: 313; Referred: 56; Active cases: 78 Box2: Top three residential segments having highest active cases 1. Raj Nagar segment – active cases 109 Localities covered: Raj Nagar, Sanjay Nagar, New Friends Colony, Govindpuram, Kamla Nehru Nagar, Panchsheel Primrose, Guldhar and Bhatta Number 5 2. Karhera 2 segment – active cases 93; Localities covered: Indirapuram, kanawani and Makanpur 3. Sahibabad 2 segment – active cases 76 Localities covered: Raj Bagh, Shalimar Garden, Shyam Park, Rajendra Nagar, Lajpat Nagar and Shalimar Garden Extension, etc||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-new-govt-policy-home-isolation-speed-up-discharge-rate/story-f0zkeW06AP4wukp4sVvrKI.html
27-07-2020||Chandigarh||30% respondents want schools to reopen in Haryana, reveals survey||A survey conducted by the Haryana school education department showed that 30.1% of the respondents, including parents, teachers and students, wanted schools to reopen in the state amid Covid-19 pandemic. The survey was conducted after the ministry of human resource development on July 17 directed education secretaries of all states and UTs to gather feedback from parents on when would they want the schools to reopen and what changes they expect to be introduced. About 1.53 lakh respondents from all 22 Haryana districts took part in the online survey between July 19 and July 21, 30.1% of whom wanted schools to be reopened in the current scenario. While 57.1% said the schools should remain closed, remaining 12.8% were of the view that schools should be open partially. According to the survey, 35.9% of the respondents were students, 34.8% parents, 23% teachers and 6.3% government and private school organisers, officials from the education department and others. 50.1% of the respondents belonged to urban areas and 49.9% were from rural areas of Haryana. About 39% respondents wanted schools to be opened for Classes 10 and 12 in August, 15% in September, 14.7% in October and 31.1% sought more time. While 17.3% of the respondents said Classes 6 to 8 should be resumed in August, 14.5% wanted it to happen in September, 18.6% in October and 49.7% opted for a later period. For primary classes, 11.4% of respondents wanted schools to be reopened in August, 9.1% in September, 14.9% in October and 64.5% post-October. Meanwhile, 10.3% of the respondents showed willingness towards resumption of classes for nursery and kindergarten students in August, 6.2% in September, 10.7% in October and 72.8% later. Schools in Haryana are shut since the lockdown came into effect in the last week of March. Haryana education minister Kanwar Pal Gurjar said most of the parents, whose children studied in government schools, agreed upon reopening of schools. “It’s easier to ensure compliance with social distancing norms in government schools of rural areas. It’s harder in the urban areas as children opt for buses, vans and auto-rickshaws as their means of transport. We are ready to open government schools in two shifts in rural areas, whereas plans are being chalked out for students of urban areas. After getting clearance from the HRD ministry, we will reopen the schools as per the SOPs,” the minister added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/30-respondents-want-schools-to-reopen-in-haryana-reveals-survey/story-LUkSGcddQ7AxzR1GTfnFmK.html
27-07-2020||Mumbai||RTE quota students can’t seek transfer to unaided schools: HC||The Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court (HC) on Monday held that students admitted under the 25℅ quota under the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education or Right to Education (RTE) Act, 2009 cannot seek transfer to some unaided school as a matter of right, and dismissed petition filed by parents of 23 students from Nagpur seeking admission to an unaided school.The bench of justice RK Deshpande and justice Anil Kilor said section 5 of the RTE Act confers a right on children to seek transfer to some other school, if they are not able to complete elementary education in their existing school for whatever reason. The right, however, comes with a rider that the school where transfer is sought should not be a special school or an unaided school not receiving any grant to meet its expenses from the government or the local authority, the bench added.It dismissed the petition noting that the school, where the parents sought admission for their wards in fifth standard, was an unaided school, and therefore the petitioners could not seek transfer to the school as a matter of right.The parents had moved HC after the school where their children are enrolled shut down from the academic year 2020-21. They had invoked provisions of the RTE Act to secure admissions for their wards in a school run by JK Education Society at Koradi in Nagpur.It was argued on their behalf that the children had cleared Class 4 from a school run by JK Education Society, and therefore in natural course they should be admitted in the school at Koradi. They also argued that denial of admission to the Koradi school was in breach of the right of children under RTE Act.The education society, however, maintained that the closed down school and the school at Koradi were legally different entities though run by the same management, and since the school at Koradi was unaided, the wards of the petitioners could not be admitted there.HC accepted the argument advanced on behalf of the management and dismissed the petitions also in view of the fact that the education officer had given 25 different options to the petitioners for admitting their wards in Class 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/rte-quota-students-can-t-seek-transfer-to-unaided-schools-hc/story-dnkh0F0Py146FRi1LCCYyH.html
27-07-2020||City||25-year-old arrested for rape a week after one-day-old baby found in creek||A week after Manpada and Shil-Daighar police found a one-day-old baby near Dombivli creek on July 19, Manpada police on Monday arrested a 25-year-old man who allegedly had a relation with a minor girl and got her pregnant, following which the minor’s relatives threw the baby near the creek.A fisherman found the baby and informed Manpada police. The baby was later handed over to Shil-Daighar police due to jurisdiction and an investigation was initiated. The baby is said to be healthy and have been sent to a children’s home in Vashi.Assistant police commissioner of Dombivli region RD More said, “The baby girl was found crying in mudflats near the creek at Riverwood Park, Desai Gao, Shilphata. Manpada police officers immediately searched nearby areas to find out who all were pregnant. During the search, we found a 15-year-old girl who said it was her baby.”According to officers, the girl was in a relationship with Roshan Chaudhary, 25, who got her pregnant. Manpada police officers said, “We have registered a case against the accused and arrested him for rape under sections of the Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. As their relationship and the crime took place in our jurisdiction, we have registered the case.”Shil-Daighar police, who filed a separate case for abandonment of the baby, are yet to arrest the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/25-year-old-arrested-for-rape-a-week-after-one-day-old-baby-found-in-creek/story-z6knWAT9m0cF7cmK1wxugL.html
27-07-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput suicide: Mahesh Bhatt quizzed for 2.5 hours||The Bandra Police on Monday recorded filmmaker Mahesh Bhatt’s statement in connection with actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death by suicide. Rajput, 34, was found dead in his apartment in Bandra on June 14. State home minister Anil Deshmukh had, tweeted on June 15, the police were investigating “clinical depression owing to professional rivalry”.According to Bandra police officials, Bhatt was called to the Santacruz police station, and questioned for close to two-and-a-half hours. On Sunday, Deshmukh had said that Bhatt would be questioned in the case. Before Bhatt, police had called filmmaker and chairman of Yash Raj Films Aditya Chopra at Versova police station to record his statement. Police have recorded statements of 45 people, including Rajput’s cook, Neeraj Singh, house help Keshav Bachner, manager Deepesh Sawant, creative manager Siddharth Ramnathmurti Pithani, sisters Neetu and Meetu Singh, father KK Singh, television actor Mahesh Shetty, casting director Mukesh Chhabra, business manager Shruti Modi, PR manager Ankita Tehlani, actor Rhea Chakraborty, filmmaker Sanjay Leela Bhansali, employees of Yash Raj Films, among others.Deshmukh had last week said there was no need for a CBI probe into the case. He had reacted after actor Rhea Chakraborty took to social media, demanding the probe be shifted to the agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-suicide-mahesh-bhatt-quizzed-for-2-5-hours/story-sp4RKl9wMugtnXpr1pFbHL.html
27-07-2020||City||DU mock test: Fewer glitches but students not convinced||New Delhi:  The second mock open-book examination (OBE) conducted by Delhi University for its final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students on Monday faced fewer glitches than the first one conducted by the university on July 4, students and teachers said. Concerns over the feasibility of the university’s first-ever open-book exams are, however, far from over.Naman Biyani, a final-year undergraduate student from Shri Ram College of Commerce, said, “Though there were fewer glitches this time, it can be attributed to fewer students taking the test. Additionally, there is a course-wise timetable for students to appear for the mock tests in different slots. Server load today was distributed slot-wise but that won’t happen in our exams so we don’t really know how it might work out.”Despite calls and messages, Dean (Exams) Vinay Gupta was unavailable for a comment.“There can be several reasons behind the glitches such as internet connectivity, file format, or poor speed. However, students will get multiple chances to upload the documents,” said a senior DU official, requesting anonymity. The university had on July 15 announced that it would conduct the first phase of mock tests, beginning Monday, in three sessions on all three days according to a course-wise timetable.This was after the first mock OBE, conducted on July 4, was marred by several glitches such as trouble uploading or downloading documents and server error on the website.Saloni Singh of Gargi College,  who faced issues with the timer, which did not show the correct stipulated time of three hours on Monday, said, “The question paper was simple and generic. While we understand that this mock exam was to test the upload and download facilities, it would have benefitted more if we had actual sample question papers. The real mock test will be conducted only a week before the final exams, leaving us with little time to practice writing answers for a completely new pattern of the question paper.”Between August 1 and 4, the university is set to hold another round of mock exams based on “real-time and single paper of each program of the final semester or year.” The open book exams are scheduled for August 10-31.Students said that since Monday’s test was conducted more than three weeks after the July 4 practice exams, the portal could have been more functional by providing sample question papers instead of generic questions.Charu Sharma, a final-year student at Rajdhani College, was among those students. “I faced errors in downloading the question paper and later I couldn’t upload my answer sheets despite rebooting my phone several times. I had to give my login ID password to my friend who stays in another part of the city to upload the PDF file from my account. This won’t be possible during the final exams. Though the varsity has made arrangements at respective colleges, how can I take the risk of travelling in public transport during a pandemic?” she asked. The Rama Vihar resident, whose college is nearly 20 km from her home, said the university’s proposal to conduct offline exams later gives an undue advantage to those students who have internet facilities and can hence appear for OBE in August.The Delhi University Teachers Association, which has been demanding scrapping of the exams, said several students faced similar problems during Monday’s tests. DUTA treasurer Abha Dev Habib, who teaches at Miranda House, said, “We haven’t seen as many complaints [as July 4 mock test]. This might be because students have been demoralised as they have been writing letters to various agencies and approached courts since May. Along with Covid-19, floods in Bihar and Assam are also an issue for students from that region. It is unfortunate that the focus is now on exams instead of teaching-learning during a pandemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/du-mock-test-fewer-glitches-but-students-not-convinced/story-uaSOQdwk9XlXzMM6zj3NxL.html
27-07-2020||Chandigarh||795 new cases take Haryana’s Covid tally past 32,000||Haryana on Monday registered 795 fresh Covid-19 infections, pushing the state’s tally to 32,127. Three people succumbed to the disease in Faridabad and one each in Ambala and Nuh, taking the death toll to 397, state’s health bulletin mentioned. As many as 218 people tested positive in Faridabad, followed by 108 in Gurugram, 91 in Rewari, 81 in Karnal, 80 in Ambala, 50 in Sonepat, 35 in Hisar, 31 in Sirsa, 22 in Jhajjar and 19 in Kurukshetra. However, the recovery rate also improved to 77.96% as 662 patients got recovered/discharged on Monday. As of now, 25,046 patients have been cured of Covid in the state, which has 6,684 active cases.According to the bulletin, 5.59 lakh samples have been sent for Covid-19 testing so far with an average of 22,064 tests per million. In the past 24 hours, 9,863 samples were collected in Haryana. Most of the new cases are being reported from the districts falling under the national capital region (NCR). Out of 32,127 cases reported in the state till date, 22,248 patients are from five NCR districts — 8,720 in Gurugram, 7,911 in Faridabad, 2,792 in Sonepat, 1,512 in Rewari and 1,313 in Rohtak. As per the health department, there were 132 patients on the oxygen support and 24 on ventilators.Hisar MP recoversBJP’s MP from Hisar Brijendra Singh has recovered from the infection. In a message he posted on his social media accounts on Monday, the MP thanked his doctors, family members and supporters. He was in home isolation at his Delhi residence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/795-new-cases-take-haryana-s-covid-tally-past-32-000/story-x3d8YZdzH3uvoY8IZlTeRJ.html
27-07-2020||Mumbai||CM launches housing project for cops in Navi Mumbai||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday launched a housing project with 4,466 homes for police personnel and distributed allotment letters to 3,670 eligible applicants for the City and Industrial Development Corporation (Cidco) housing project. Thackeray also launched Kharghar Heaven Hills project which comprises villas, resort, a naturopathy centre, etc. spread across a 250-acre plot.Cidco’s Kharghar Heaven Hills project will be designed by keeping nearly 39% open space and is expected to attract foreign visitors as it is around 20 minutes from the proposed Navi Mumbai international airport, a note from the chief minister’s office (CMO) said.The state government, through Cidco, is also planning a corporate park in Navi Mumbai on a 350-acre plot, which will also have a football stadium.The housing scheme for police personnel will be available for applicants in the economically weaker section (EWS) and lower income group (LIG). The houses will be built in Taloja, Kharghar, Kalamboli, Ghansoli and Dronagiri areas of Navi Mumbai and will be reserved for police personnel stationed in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR).Thackeray also oversaw the distribution of allotment letters to over 3,600 families who have successfully got affordable homes in Kharghar, Navi Mumbai. “This is an unexpected gift for me that common people are getting the homes of their dreams on my birthday. Having one’s own home is everybody’s dream, and this government is working to fulfil that dream of common people,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cm-launches-housing-project-for-cops-in-navi-mumbai/story-RTfaCspUWa3enG75OtXTQP.html
27-07-2020||Chandigarh||HC upholds promotion of nearly 30 Haryana Police inspectors||The Punjab and Haryana high court has upheld the promotion orders of 30 odd inspectors from the post of sub-inspectors, effected by the government in 2009. The petition challenging these promotions initially came in 2009, when some direct recruit sub-inspectors (SIs) challenged promotions of their colleagues to the post of inspectors from amongst those who got promoted from assistant sub-inspectors (ASIs) posts.They rued that though they were appointed as SI prior to the respondents and are senior to them on the basis of length of service, they have been ignored while making promotions to the posts of inspector. The high court found that promotion rules lay down eight-year experience, out of which five years have to be as SI. But it does not mandate that the rest of three-year service has to be on the same post. Hence, those who got promoted from the rank of ASI can be considered for promotion on completion of five years of service as SI.“The discharge of this sovereign function of the state requires different capabilities, training and skill which certainly is acquired over a period of time. The legislature in its wisdom has prescribed possession of eight years experience as upper subordinate for acquiring eligibility for promotion to the higher post of inspector, considering the specific requirements for the post and the same cannot be substituted by the court with its own view,” it said, while dismissing the plea.It added that the law abhors mini-classifications on any preferential treatment on the basis of higher education or experience keeping into consideration the administrative efficiency and other relevant circumstances.In these proceedings, the high court had recently stayed the government’s move to consider the names of inspectors for the promotion as deputy superintendent of police (DSP) due to this dispute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-upholds-promotion-of-nearly-30-haryana-police-inspectors/story-OIxwzgNy1J4GdSSBgiNR6L.html
27-07-2020||Chandigarh||Serological survey begins in a week to measure immunity level in state||With per day case count increasing rapidly in Punjab for the past two weeks, the state health authorities have decided to conduct ‘serological survey’ to check exposure of people of the state to the disease and the level of immunity they may have developed.Serological survey helps in measuring the exposure of a community to a disease (Covid-19 in this case) and detecting how many individuals developed antibodies to fight the virus after getting infected. A similar survey that covered 21,387 people in Delhi recently pointed to exposure of nearly 25% of the population to the virus already.As per the plan, Punjab will cover more people as compared to Delhi to make the survey widespread and more accurate.As per state’s nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, arrangements are being made to start a rapid sero survey in a week’s time.“Special kits are being procured to carry out the tests for the survey as per the ICMR guidelines. The outcome of this survey will prove helpful in policy making to tackle the virus by getting an idea about herd immunity,” said the nodal officer.As per health experts, herd immunity is a stage of a pandemic when people get protected from the infection because majority of those around them have already developed immunity against the infection.As most of the patients hit by the virus remain asymptomatic, experts feel, in absence of testing, the virus may have already contracted many more without making any changes in their health because they have strong immunity.As per Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR’s) guidelines sent to states to conduct these surveys, the tests for the sero survey are conducted through an enzyme linked assay (EIA) using ELISA (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay) testing kits.The ICMR has already permitted sampling of patients who are ailing from other diseases, individuals in containment zones, essential services providers, migrants, prisoners and people living in compact slums for the sero survey.As per the nodal officer, in a previous such survey in the state in May recorded mere 0.34% positive cases.Jalandhar lab to conduct antibody testThe health department has already permitted a private lab in Jalandhar to conduct antibody ELISA test. However, the testing has been stopped for time being because of confusion over outcome of the tests.“When this antibody testing shows positive, it means that a particular person has already been exposed to the virus. However, due to lack of knowledge on the issue, in some instances, the subjects were marked as Covid positive because their antibody tests came out to be positive. Because of this, we stopped the testing for the time being to avoid unnecessary confusion,” state’s nodal officer said.HERD RESISTANCE A similar survey in Delhi covering 21,387 random individuals recently pointed to 25% of them having developed antibodies against the virus; Punjab has plan for a bigger survey||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/serological-survey-begins-in-a-week-to-measure-immunity-level-in-state/story-Z99w5NRWYDPn8Q8UP4fJBP.html
27-07-2020||Delhi||Monday madness on city roads as road repairs hamper traffic||Commuters were stuck in serpentine traffic snarls in central Delhi on Monday. Delhi traffic police said that the repair work on a portion of Bhairon Marg that had caved in, along with the construction of an underpass from Nizamuddin railway bridge to Ashram intersection on Mathura Road, resulted in vehicles crawling at snail’s pace especially during the peak hours of morning and evening.On July 22, a portion of central Delhi’s Bhairon Marg had caved in after a heavy downpour. The traffic police said that the Public Works Department (PWD) is yet to complete the repair work, which is adding to traffic jams in the area.“The area was already a mess due to PWD’s work on an integrated project around Pragati Maidan. With the cave-in, traffic management has become a bigger problem, especially with the high volume of vehicles here,” said a senior traffic police officer.A senior PWD official said that the repair work at Bhairon Marg was completed late Monday night and traffic would be normalised on the stretch from Tuesday.“We have placed crash barriers along the affected area, so that such an incident would not reoccur even if it rains in the coming days,” the official said.The traffic was also made worse by the ongoing construction of a 750-metre underpass connecting Nizamuddin railway bridge and the Ashram intersection. The department has already put a traffic diversion plan in place to accommodate the increased load, but the unforeseen increase due to the Bhairon Marg cave-in led to spillovers.Sumer Ahluwalia, a resident of Sukhdev Vihar, said that it took her an hour to reach her client’s office in Connaught Place. The journey usually takes 30 minutes in the morning.“There are several traffic diversions and I am sure if I had walked instead, I would have reached earlier,” said Ahluwalia.Along with areas around Pragati Maidan, IP Estate, Meerut Expressway, Barapullah flyover, DND Flyway, Noida Link Road, Vikas Marg, ITO crossing, Deen Dayal Upadhyay Marg, Minto Road, the Connaught Place roundabout and India Gate roundabout were also clogged.Traffic snarls were also witnessed in east Delhi. Alerts from the traffic police stated that there was heavy traffic from Surya Nagar to Dilshad Garden because of the underpass repair work near Surya Nagar.“Traffic to remain heavy in the carriageway from Surya Nagar towards Dilshad Garden due to ongoing repair work of underpass by DJB and PWD. Motorists are advised to use flyover while going towards Dilshad Garden,” an alert issued by the Delhi traffic police at 1pm on Monday read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/monday-madness-on-city-roads-as-road-repairs-hamper-traffic/story-YTAqPnloq0BjBqUeeR6bbP.html
27-07-2020||City||Immigration racket busted, Bangladeshi national held||New Delhi: The tenant and servant verification drive being carried out by Delhi Police in view of the approaching Independence Day celebrations has led to the busting of an immigration (‘kabootarbaazi’) racket being run by an alleged Bangladeshi national living illegally in India, police said on Monday.Apart from the Bangladeshi citizen, the police have arrested two men from Haryana who were a part of the racket. The gang used to illegally send people to European countries and Canada with forged passports. They mostly targeted job-seeking people from Bangladesh, Myanmar, and Nepal. Eight passports of three different countries, fake Aadhaar cards and other incriminating documents were recovered from them, deputy commissioner of police (west) Deepak Purohit said.DCP Purohit said a drive was launched recently to verify tenants living in the west district. On July 23, a joint team of the Rajouri Garden police station and Foreigners Regional Registration Office (FRRO) was carrying out a raid in Subhash Nagar.During the drive, the police found a 37-year-old Bangladeshi national, Mohammad Raqibul Hasan, living in rented accommodation and in possession of a fake Aadhaar Card. His original Bangladeshi passport was seized. A case was registered against Hasan after it was found he had come to India in 2018 on a tourist visa that expired in November the same year but continued staying illegally in the country. Hasan was arrested, he said.Purohit said the antecedents of the arrested Bangladeshi was verified and it transpired he was part of an organised syndicate involved in trafficking of people primarily from Bangladesh, Myanmar and Nepal. “Hasan’s interrogation led to the arrest of his two associates, Ankit Kumar,20, and Rajesh,26, both from Haryana,” the DCP said.A senior police officer said the gang used to charge between R10 and R15 lakh from each person who aspired to be sent to Canada or European countries. “The gang members used to prepare fake passports, visa and other required documents. They claimed to have sent many people to these countries using forged documents. We are verifying it,” said the officer.“Hasan said his associates import security press grade paper from Thailand and Malaysia and made fake visa at their set-up in Kolkata, West Bengal. These facts are being verified and investigation is on,” the DCP said.Of the eight fake passports seized from the arrested persons, three are of Nepali citizens and one of a Bangladeshi nationals. The remaining are of Indian citizens, the police said.Senior police officers said verification of nearly eight thousand tenants and servants are being done every day as part of the verification drive. Officials said data on the number of verifications is being compiled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/immigration-racket-busted-bangladeshi-national-held/story-pJt71u3AaIX1JaCsZpVf5H.html
27-07-2020||City||High court restrains cops from circulating info on Pinjra Tod member till trial begins||New Delhi: The Delhi High Court on Monday restrained police from circulating information on allegations against Devangana Kalita, a member of Pinjra Tod and an accused in the north-east Delhi riots, till trial begins, while stating “human dignity is a constitutional value and any action that unnecessarily denudes a person of his dignity would have a debilitating effect on the rights guaranteed under the Indian Constitution”. Kalita, a PhD student from JNU, through her counsel Adit S Pujari, sought directions to stop police from making selective media leaks while contending it would prejudice to the rights of a free and fair trial due to such acts. She has been arrested in four cases related to the communal riots in north-east Delhi in February this year and has been charged with the stringent UAPA for her alleged role in hatching a conspiracy, along with other accused. The violence claimed 53 lives and left several others injured. Justice Vibhu Bakhru on Monday said the police authorities “are not the adjudicators of guilt or innocence of any person” and it cannot pronounce on the guilt or innocence of any person. It refused to accept the contention of police that the media note was issued in view of the campaign being run on social media and said the reason is “not persuasive”. Deciding the matter, the court said “it is not necessary to name accused in media reports”. Citing the rules laid down by the Ministry of Home Affairs, the court restrained the police to publish anything with respect to Kalita. “The cases concerning communal riots are undoubtedly sensitive cases. This court is informed that FIRs filed in such cases are not being publicly disclosed. In the circumstances, this court considers it apposite to direct the respondent (city police) not to issue any further communication naming any accused or any witness till the charges, if any, are framed and the trial is commenced,” the judge said in a 33-page judgment. The court, however, refused to set aside the media note in question and said there was nothing incriminating in it. “The question whether media reporting or disclosing of information by the investigation agency has the propensity to prejudicially affect fair trial would depend on the facts of each case...Concededly, there cannot be any blanket order proscribing city police Delhi Police from disclosing any information regarding pending cases,” the court said. The single-judge bench said selective disclosure of information calculated to sway the public opinion to believe that an accused is guilty of the alleged offence; to use electronic or other media to run a campaign to besmirch the reputation or credibility of the person concerned; and to make questionable claims of solving cases and apprehending the guilty while the investigations are at a nascent stage, would clearly be impermissible. “This is not only because such actions may prejudicially affect a fair trial but also because it may, in some cases, have the effect of stripping the person involved of his/her dignity or subjecting him/or her to avoidable ignominy. It is trite that “the right to live includes the right to live with human dignity”. The Delhi Police refused to comment on the developments, citing the Delhi High Court’s order in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/high-court-restrains-cops-from-circulating-info-on-pinjra-tod-member-till-trial-begins/story-NxO4cPF4jjNN0WV9Ydb7PJ.html
27-07-2020||City||Delhi riots: Court rejects Tahir Hussain’s plea against police report||New Delhi: A Delhi court on Monday dismissed a plea by Tahir Hussain, arrested for his alleged role in the north-east Delhi riots, who had sought court’s help in taking action against police officials for filing “false, fabricated and manipulated report” about number of FIRs pending against him. Chief metropolitan Magistrate Purshottam Pathak rejected the plea stating that there was no merit in the application. During the hearing, advocate Javed Ali, appearing for Hussain, told the court that initially, Hussain had filed an application in March, seeking necessary directions to the police to provide copies of FIRs in which he has been alleged to have been booked along with the status report. The police had informed in its report filed before the court on March 19, that Hussain was booked under five cases, said Ali. Thereafter he was arrested in another FIR which was registered in February but the details were not provided in their March 19 report, Hussain’s lawyer further said, adding that this created doubt and showed that the sixth FIR was “ante dated, forged and fabricated” or the report dated March 19 was “manipulated”. Police told the court that there was absolutely no intent to furnish wrong information before the court as alleged and the Station House Officer may have inadvertently missed out on mentioning the sixth FIR. The court noted that “non-disclosure of accused in the sixth FIR was not deliberate and there was no point assuming that the DCP-North East and DCP-Crime/SHO concerned have deliberately withheld the information and that too for causing any harm to Hussain... It seems that not providing the information is a bonafide mistake on the part of investigating agency”. Police have arrested Hussain for his alleged role in instigating the riots in north-east Delhi. Police have said that Hussain was one of the main conspirators, a charge his lawyers denied in court while calling it a political conspiracy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-riots-court-rejects-tahir-hussain-s-plea-against-police-report/story-mETN5H4GmeDX4AlfdGa6wN.html
27-07-2020||City||Multani disappearance case: Two former Chandigarh cops booked for fabricating evidence||Mohali: The Kharar police on Monday registered a case against two retired inspectors of Chandigarh police — Anokh Singh and Jagir Singh — for fabricating evidence in the Multani disappearance case. The move comes after the said cops had filed a complaint with director generals of police (DGPs) of Punjab and Chandigarh on July 9 against dismissed Punjab Police cop Gurmeet Singh “Pinki”, alleging that they were lured by Pinki to give statement against former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini in the 32-year-old disappearance case of CITCO employee Balwant Singh Multani. The cops were booked under Section 195-A (fabricating evidence) on the complaint of Kharar (Sadar) station house officer, Sukhvir Singh. A senior police officer of Mohali, who wished not be named confirmed the development. On July 9, the two cops in their complaint cited audio recordings to prove that they were lured by dismissed Punjab Police cop Gurmeet Singh “Pinki” at the behest of chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s political adviser Bharat Inder Singh Chahal to give statement against Saini. In their complaint, Anokh and Jagir claimed that they were invited by Pinki to his farmhouse near Landran on June 3 and 6 where he offered to appoint their children as sub-inspectors in Punjab Police with the help of Chahal. Pinki, a dismissed inspector of Punjab Police who was once close to Saini, is the second witness in the case registered at the Mataur police station in Mohali on May 6. IN an interview to a private TV channel in 2015 he claimed that he had seen Saini torturing Multani, which also finds a mention in the FIR registered against the ex-DGP and eight retired officials of Chandigarh Police. The case pertains to kidnapping of Multani, son of an ex-IAS officer, who was allegedly tortured in police custody before he allegedly escaped from the custody of Qadian police. Chandigarh Police reportedly had picked Multani after a terrorist attack on Saini in 1991 when he was the Chandigarh SSP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/multani-disappearance-case-two-former-chandigarh-cops-booked-for-fabricating-evidence/story-1TpaikLbYLqNkAJaJwOsbJ.html
27-07-2020||Chandigarh||Proposal to allow outdoor eating in Chandigarh on MC house agenda||There’s good news for foodies as restaurants and food courtyards are likely to get permissions for using the space outside their premises for outdoor eating, not just for the evening, but for lunch and dinner hours too.However, eatery owners will pay 50% to 100% more than the current charges to the municipal corporation (MC) for using the space.The changes, suggested by the revenue generation committee, will be part of the MC general house meeting scheduled for July 30.The MC, which at present allows use of such space only for the evening from 7 pm to 10 pm, is likely to give permissions for additional hours from 12.30 pm to 3.30 pm.Costs to increaseDepending on the shop categories – day market, booth, bay shop or shop-cum-office (SCO) current charges vary between ₹3,000 to ₹7,000 per month. This will be increased to ₹4,500 to ₹10,500 per month.For location in the front or sides of the corner shops, current rates are likely to double. For day food markets such as sectors 15 and 11 where earlier there were no existing charges, ₹3,000 a month will be charged. Costs for booths will be increased from ₹3,000 to ₹6,000 and for bay shops it will go up from ₹5,000 to ₹ 10,000 per month.Charges for SCO/SCF will be higher at ₹14,000 from the ₹7,000 charged currently per month.The revenue generation committee had at a meeting discussed how dhabas put up tables and chairs outside the premises for the whole day and explored the option of the MC allowing use of space for additional hours instead of a limited time in the evening.Survey of eateriesIt was proposed that the count of eateries in the city be calculated in a survey carried out by a sub-inspector (enforcement).“The financially struggling MC is weighing various options to increase its revenues, and the revenue generation committee’s suggestion, if approved by the general house, will help the civic body double its revenues,” said an MC official on condition of anonymity.The general house will also discuss disposing of waste at the waste processing plant and managing its RDF. Agenda regarding disposal of shops and booths in sector 17/22 subway, Sector 39-D and Mauli Jagran on leasehold is likely to be discussed too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/proposal-to-allow-outdoor-eating-in-chandigarh-on-mc-house-agenda/story-TIbBtix6s8qlu7fhLJyPyH.html
27-07-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana private schools to charge fees on Punjab lines||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday disposed of a clutch of petitions on Haryana schools’ fee issue, ordering that schools will charge fees on the lines of their Punjab counterparts. It was on June 30 that the high court (HC) had allowed private schools in Punjab to collect tuition fees even for the period during which the state was under lockdown. The schools were also permitted to collect admission fees. The Haryana government’s series of notifications put out in the view of Covid-19 outbreak, which restrained schools from collection of fees and other funds besides increasing fees, have been challenged in different petitions before the HC since May. The HC bench of Justice Ramendra Jain on Monday said all these petitions have been disposed of in terms of the order passed by a coordinate bench in the Punjab’s case, government as well as petitioners’ lawyers said.A detailed order from the court is yet to be released.In Punjab’s case, the HC had restrained schools from increasing the fee for the year 2020-21 and the schools were also barred from depriving students of attending school and online classes if the fee was not paid. Parents facing hardships were told to approach school, which can decide the application. In case of dissatisfaction with schools’ decision, parents can approach the fee regulatory body. The schools too, which are facing financial hardships, were told to approach district education officer along with the relevant proofs. The school managements were told to work out the actual expenditure incurred under the annual charges for the period the school remained closed and recover only such expenditure incurred by them, including actual transport charges and actual building charges. These charges can’t be recovered for the period for any activity or facility towards which no expenditure is incurred. The HC order in Punjab’s case was subsequently challenged by the state government and parents, and is pending before a division bench.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-private-schools-to-charge-fees-on-punjab-lines/story-tJxbV1JaIP9yv7vCAfZ3BL.html
27-07-2020||City||SCD Government College starts online registration process||Satish Chander Dhawan (SCD) Government College have started their online registration process from Monday. With students of ongoing batches, being promoted, the college authorities have asked them to deposit the fee online, however, they are not required to register online. The computer cell department handling the queries of students received more phone calls and emails as students were asked to stay at home due to the pandemic. As per sources, many college students started registering online on Monday due to which the authorities informed them that they have been promoted to the next class and have to deposit the fee online. Few students reached the college premises to enquire about the admission procedure but were told to apply online. A board carrying all details of the online registration process has been put up outside the college. Principal, Dharam Singh Sandhu, said, “We have started the online registration process for first-year students. However, old students have been promoted to next semester and were informed about the same.”“New students can upload their documents which will later be verified by a committee,” he said. While Government College for Girls has already begun the registration process on Saturday, 1,217 students have applied online to date, of which 490 have opted for BCom against 140 seats and 347 in BA which has 480 seats. With 40 seats for BBA course, 120 applications have been received. The last date to apply for all first-semester undergraduate courses is August 8. The tentative rank list will be displayed on the website on August 9 and correction in the online form can be done by candidates from August 9 to August 11. The final rank list will be uploaded on the college website on August 12 and on the same day students are required to deposit the fee online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/scd-government-college-starts-online-registration-process/story-mKSnZwKW9q3WhRtskyDuCN.html
27-07-2020||Mumbai||City, suburbs record over 100mm rainfall||The city and suburbs witnessed continuous intense rain spells with loud claps of thunder between Sunday night and Monday morning.The Santacruz weather observatory, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, recorded 100.7 mm (heavy rain) between 8.30am Sunday and 8.30am Monday, of which 94.3 mm was recorded between 11.30pm Sunday and 8.30am Monday. Through the day, on Monday (8.30am to 5.30pm), rain intensity reduced with 16mm rain.Heavy overnight rain led to waterlogging, especially across south-central Mumbai and isolated areas in the suburbs. Location-wise maximum rain over 24-hours was recorded across Santacruz, followed by Dadar at 89.4mm, Worli 86.4mm, Vidyavihar 70.8mm, and Navi Mumbai 52.8mm.The Colaba weather station, representative of south Mumbai, recorded 60.4mm rain between 8.30am Sunday and 8.30am Monday, of which 54.6mm was recorded between 11.30pm Sunday and 8.30am Monday. However, intense rain spells were recorded on Monday morning with 50.8mm rain within a span of nine hours (8.30am to 5.30pm).Mumbai suburbs have so far recorded 82% of its seasonal average rain, while south Mumbai recorded 77.4% of its seasonal target between June 1 to July 27, 5.30pm. However, major lakes located in Thane and Nashik supplying water to Mumbai recorded 1mm rain each, over the past 24 hours, while both Tulsi and Vihar recorded 15mm rain each. Only 32% of the required water stock for Mumbai has been achieved from June 1 to July 27. It was 70% by this time last year. The weather bureau had not issued a heavy rain alert for Sunday night or Monday and only revised its forecast on Monday morning. “Owing to a cloud patch over the Arabian Sea extending over Mumbai and surrounding areas, intense showers were recorded more over the suburbs than south Mumbai, and by early morning extended towards southern parts of the city. These cloud patches are highly localised due to the influence of westerly winds during monsoon, and their intensity is not easily detectable. However, Nowcast and impact-based warnings were issued on early Monday morning itself,” said a senior India Meteorological Department official.While a yellow alert was issued for the rest of the day on Monday afternoon, the impact-based warning issued at 7.30am, hours after intense rain had already begun, said that intense convective clouds had the potential to cause intense rain spells to the tune of 30-50mm per hour over three hours. The impact expected was localised flooding and traffic may need to be regulated.Meanwhile, persistent showers allowed a drop in maximum temperatures on Monday falling below the normal mark. South Mumbai recorded 28 degrees Celsius, almost 2 degrees Celsius below normal while the suburbs recorded 29.7 degrees Celsius, 0.4 degree Celsius below normal.With intermittent sunshine on Monday afternoon and early evening, the weather bureau has predicted light to moderate rain for the city and suburbs for Tuesday to Friday. The weather bureau had revised its forecast thrice last week for heavy rain expected on Saturday but it remained a miss. AUGUST FIRST WEEK MAY BE A HEAVY RAIN PERIODThe Ministry of Earth Sciences (MoES) on Monday said with the formation of a weather system over the Bay of Bengal, an increase in rain intensity is expected around August 4-5 onwards for the west coast, including Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/city-suburbs-record-over-100mm-rainfall/story-byvOWVVgFrWXRp5or3pv8N.html
27-07-2020||City||14-year-old raped, bludgeoned to death||Raigad police on Monday arrested a labourer for raping and killing a 14-year-old girl in Roha. The accused, in his early twenties, took her near the valley, where he allegedly bludgeoned her with a stone and then raped her.According to police, the victim was a resident of Tamdi village. On Sunday, at around 5.45 pm, the girl’s father, 40, who works in the village panchayat, sent her to Tamshet, around three kilometres away, to fetch her grandfather.The accused who was walking towards Tamshet, asked the victim for a lift on her scooter. The victim however declined. “The accused is a labourer from Tamshet village. He knew the girl, but it is not yet clear if she knew him. There was an argument between the two when she refused to give him the lift. He then attacked her,” said Anil Paraskar, Raigad superintendent of police.“He attacked her and dragged her by her hair into the valley, around 200 to 250 feet deep. There, he repeatedly hit her on the head with a stone and after she was defenceless, he raped her,” said another senior officer.He left her body on a large boulder in the bushes and fled. After the girl did not return home, the local villagers formed a search team. Around 9.30pm, they found a scooter on the side of the road, but found no sign of the girl. They then went deep into the valley where they found her body on the boulder.“We found at least two impact wounds on her head,” said Kirankumar Suryawanshi, deputy superintendent of police, Roha.The police had formed eight teams to crack the case. The police got their lead when they suspected the role of a villager from Tamshet. The only residential area ahead of the route is Tamshet village and it was unlikely for someone with no knowledge of the route to be involved.“Following inquiry, we arrested the accused within 12 hours from his house. He has confessed to the crime. It appears he committed the crime alone, but we are still investigating to find out if a second person was involved,” said Sachin Gunjal, additional superintendent, Raigad.The girl’s body was sent to JJ Hospital in Mumbai for an autopsy. The accused was arrested from his house on Monday morning. He will be produced before a local court on Tuesday. He has a six-month-old daughter.The police are also probing if the rape and murder was a targeted attack, but no concrete leads have been found to support that, the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/14-year-old-raped-bludgeoned-to-death/story-eorr77DBbfeeczHvFwlJxL.html
27-07-2020||Mumbai||SC to hold hearing on Maratha reservation on September 1||The Supreme Court on Monday posted the next hearing on the petitions challenging the validity of Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) that grants 16% reservation to the Maratha community on September 1. The three-judge bench will also be holding another hearing on August 25 on the plea that the matter should be heard by a five-judge bench.The apex court, however, refrained from granting an interim stay on reservation benefits to the postgraduate medical students in admission for this academic year. The state government told the court that they have already decided not to make any recruitments owing to the coronavirus outbreak. The erstwhile BJP-led state government had granted 16% reservation to the Maratha community by enacting the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes Act, in government jobs and education, on November 2018.Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, who is representing the state, said that the state has already issued a government resolution to this effect on May 4. The statement was made when the apex court asked the state about the recruitment process.The three-judge bench led by Justice L Nageswara Rao heard a clutch of petitions, including one challenging reservation benefits to postgraduate medical students from the Maratha community for this academic year.The state government has recently supported the demand made by one of the petitioners Vinod Patil that matter be heard before the five-judge bench. “We are satisfied with the progress as the apex court has refused to grant a stay on admission on reservation benefits to postgraduate medical students from the Maratha community. The state government has already issued an order on May 4 directing over no recruitment will be made thus the court has given no stay on it as well,” said Ashok Chavan, PWD minister, who is heading cabinet sub-committee formed to review progress on legal matters on the reservation and take necessary decisions.“Though, a bit late the demand made by us on five-judge demand was supported by the state government. The court has agreed to take hearing on the plea on August 25,” Patil said.The erstwhile BJP-led state government had granted 16% reservation to the Maratha community by enacting the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes Act, in government jobs and education, on November 2018. The Act was upheld by the Bombay high court in June 2019, but it said that the quantum of 16% was not justifiable, and should be reduced to 12%-13%, as recommended by the State Backward Classes Commission in its report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sc-to-hold-hearing-on-maratha-reservation-on-september-1/story-MLBLlcEpt3osaSgQ2CXEyO.html
27-07-2020||City||2 prisoners flee from Kalyan jail||Two prisoners lodged at Kalyan’s Adharwadi jail fled from the jail premises by jumping off the security wall on Monday around 5.45am. The Khadakpada police are on the lookout for the duo. One of the accused, 23-year-old Shyam Premchand Chavhan, is a resident of Nehru Nagar and was arrested in March in connection with two cases of theft at Bhiwandi and Kongaon in Thane. He has been in judicial custody since April. The other accused, 21-year-old Avinash Gaikwad is a resident of Aurangabad, and was arrested in January for two theft cases at Kalyan. Despite repeated attempts, Adharwadi jail authorities did not respond to HT’s calls and messages. Senior police inspector A Pawar from Khadakpada police station said, “We have registered separate cases against the duo after the jail authorities informed us about the incident. The two accused climbed the eight-feet wall using some object. A team of police has been sent to some of the possible locations where they may be hiding. We will soon arrest them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-prisoners-flee-from-kalyan-jail/story-hN8UaUmssJ5TxMrmAvx2hL.html
27-07-2020||Chandigarh||MACT awards Chandigarh police ASI ₹10 lakh for traffic accident||The Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT) has awarded compensation of over ₹10 lakh to an assistant sub-inspector of Chandigarh police who suffered 45% disability in a traffic accident in 2018.MACT announced its decision in a case filed by ASI Satyabir Singh, 54, from Sector 26, against two brothers, Naresh Kumar and Rajesh Kumar, from Kaithal in Haryana and Oriental Insurance Company Ltd, which had insured their vehicle.Satyabir Singh claimed that on April 27, 2018 , he was driving down from Aleva village in Jind to Chandigarh when a speeding Baleno car driving on the wrong side of the road collided head-on with his Alto car. Admitted to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research with serious injuries, Satyabir Singh remained hospitalised till July 17, 2018.Alleging that the Baleno was speeding and driven rashly because of which the accident took place, the ASI asked for a compensation of ₹75 lakh.Naresh Kumar and Rajesh Kumar denied that an accident had taken place and alleged that a false criminal case has been registered against them in collusion with the local police officials of Kaithal to earn a hefty sum as compensation.The insurance company claimed that the driver of the vehicle was not holding a valid license at the time of accident and the vehicle was being driven in contravention of the terms and conditions of the Motor Vehicle Act.While awarding the compensation, MACT observed that “the functional disability of the right leg is hereby assessed as 45% and the loss of future earning capacity as 15%. However, the fact remains that he (the ASI) being in service of police department, claimant would be getting full salary, as such, the compensation with respect to disability requires to be assessed as per multiplier method.”Stating that the accident was proven to have taken place, the court awarded compensation of ₹10,09,511 to Singh and directed the insurance company to deposit the amount within 15 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mact-awards-chandigarh-police-asi-10-lakh-for-traffic-accident/story-dDUk5tPJFrhzapbsgg0TlJ.html
27-07-2020||Chandigarh||Police commissioner’s office closed for public, 2 stations shut down as 20 personnel test positive for Covid-19||As 20 personnel of the Ludhiana police Commissionerate and two private workers at the Police Lines tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday, public dealing at the police commissioner’s office was discontinued and two police stations, division number 3 and number 8, shut down for three days.Among the personnel who tested positive were an inspector, a sub-inspector, eight assistant sub-inspectors (ASIs), a head constable, four home guard jawans, four constables and an accountant. With this, the total number of police personnel infected has gone up to 76, while 31 personnel have recovered.Police commissioner Rakesh Agarwal said that five personnel at division number 3 police station, including the station house officer (SHO), inspector Satish Kumar, had been infected. Others included four police personnel from division number 8 and two cops deputed at the commissioner’s office.Agarwal said public dealing had been discontinued for three days at his office and the two police stations except for cases of extreme emergency.Other routine work of the division number 8 station would be handled by the Sadar police station and that of division number 3 would be looked after by the division number 1 station.People could email complaints related to the affected police stations to cp.ldh.police@punjab.gov.in, Agarwal said.The affected offices were being sanitised thoroughly and testing of all contacts are being done. Police personnel who feared they had come in contact with the infected personnel were advised to self quarantine and get tested.Earlier, public dealing had been suspended at the Moti Nagar police station for two days after five police personnel tested positive.The department had already lost assistant commissioner of police (ACP, north) Anil Kumar Kohli to Covid-19 on April 18.Deputy superintendent of police (DSP- investigation) Manmohan Sarna of Khanna, two sub-inspectors and two head constables deputed at the Doraha police station had also tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/police-commissioner-s-office-closed-for-public-2-stations-shut-down-as-20-personnel-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-X25F1kMJrAmc4ysYxoRaBM.html
27-07-2020||City||7 road samples fail quality test, Ludhiana MC stops contractor’s payment||At a time when the residents are raising a hue and cry over potholed roads and inferior quality material used by contractors while constructing the roads, seven samples collected by Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) quality control team have failed the quality test. The bitumen content in the samples was found less than prescribed. As per the MC officials, as many as 17 samples were collected to check the quality of carpeted roads. Out of this, seven samples collected from Amantran Colony, Guru Vihar, Chander Nagar, Bal Singh Nagar Road, Ashok Nagar, Daba Road and a road near GNE College (towards Dugri) have failed the test.MC additional commissioner, Rishipal Singh said, “The MC has stopped the pending payment to the contractor and action would be taken against him as per the norms.”Earlier, the samples collected from a stretch near RK Road, Circular Road near Daresi Ground and Baba Mukand Singh Nagar had also failed the test. Also, samples of interlocking tiles collected from the Sewakpura area had failed the test.Earlier in June, the Vigilance Bureau had also asked the local bodies department to act on a complaint filed by an RTI activist over alleged sub-standard roads being constructed in the city and submit action taken report with the bureau.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/7-road-samples-fail-quality-test-ludhiana-mc-stops-contractor-s-payment/story-uYhqaROrpAS2mRApGru4gP.html
27-07-2020||City||J&K: FIR lodged against former BJP minister, 4 others in land encroachment case||Police on Monday registered an FIR at Vijaypur police station in Jammu and Kashmir’s Samba district against former BJP minister, his two brothers and two other relatives in a land encroachment case. A senior police officer said former BJP minister Chander Prakash Ganga and his brothers were booked in a land encroachment case. Ganga was former industries minister in the PDP-BJP government.He said the complainant Satish Sharma of Kathua’s Ramkot named five people including Vidhya Sharma, Rajesh Sharma, Jai Kumar Sharma, Suraj Parkash Sharma and Chander Parkash Ganga.“In a written complaint, Satish Sharma stated that he had purchased some land in Salmeri village of Vijaypur tehsil. The five accused came with a JCB and destroyed all the fencing of his land that was covered with poles and wire etc,” the officer said. A case under sections 447, 427, 378, 506, 34 of the IPC has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-fir-lodged-against-former-bjp-minister-4-others-in-land-encroachment-case/story-zaWOn7PEtsHULMUNLCVI1M.html
27-07-2020||Mumbai||‘BJP misusing power to topple governments’||The Maharashtra Congress party members protested outside Raj Bhavan in south Mumbai accusing the Bharatiya Janata Party of trying to topple the states led by other parties. The protest was held in the backdrop of the political developments in Congress-led Rajasthan. Maharashtra Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat said that the attempt by the BJP to overthrow the Congress government was unconstitutional and an attempt to murder the democracy.“The BJP has been attempting to topple the governments of the opposition parties in various states by misusing power and money. They want to gain power through immoral and corrupt means. For this, the Governor’s office and Raj Bhavan are being used by foul means,” he said. Along with Thorat, public works minister and former chief minister Ashok Chavan, Mumbai Congress president Eknath Gaikwad and other senior leaders participated in the protest on Monday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bjp-misusing-power-to-topple-governments/story-6aH8RBUeQ0eADYgdHDQmfJ.html
27-07-2020||City||Verify allotment of MC quarters in Dr BR Ambedkar colony: PSPCL to Ludhiana civic body||Taking cognizance of five power theft cases in Dr BR Ambedkar Colony in June, the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has written to Municipal Corporation (MC) for verifying allocation of quarters to its employees in the colony, so that power connections could be issued to them.As per the PSPCL officials, five house owners were caught in a power theft case during an inspection which was conducted in the area on June 17. A penalty of around ₹3.5 crore has been imposed on the violators.The letter written by a senior executive engineer, CMC division, PSPCL stated that there are around 350 quarters in the area and most of the residents there are MC employees. After PSPCL tightening its noose around violators, many residents are now showing up to get a new power connection. But many residents do not have allocation letters for MC quarters, without which new connections cannot be issued by PSPCL.Municipal Town Planner (MTP), Monica Anand said, “I have received the letter from PSPCL on Monday and the MC will now conduct a survey in the area. If any resident has illegally occupied the MC quarters then they will have to vacate the quarters.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/verify-allotment-of-mc-quarters-in-dr-br-ambedkar-colony-pspcl-to-ludhiana-civic-body/story-gHEYXNRtIPVdQOfEurprBL.html
27-07-2020||City||Govt doing enough to tackle Covid-19 cases: Delhi High Court||New Delhi: The Delhi High Court on Monday said the Delhi government had taken adequate steps such as increasing the number of ambulances, augmenting the capacity of helplines, ramping up testing facilities and creating plasma banks to handle Covid-19 cases in the city. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan said since steps taken by the city government were adequate, there was no further need to monitor a plea it had initiated itself on the management of helpline numbers and the increasing number of cases in the city. The court, while disposing of a plea, directed the Delhi government to ensure that the official orders and directions issued by it and the court with regard to real-time update of data of availability of beds and ventilators, and conducting tests, are followed by hospitals. It also directed that ambulance services for Covid and non-Covid patients and the helplines should continue to operate and the nodal officers appointed by the Delhi government in its hospitals should keep in mind the difficulties of the people. The court had initiated the public interest litigation (PIL) on the basis of a video clip of a man who had to run from pillar to post to get his mother hospitalised after she tested positive for Covid-19, and another similar petition filed by a private individual. Standing counsel (criminal) Rahul Mehra and additional standing counsel Anuj Aggarwal told the court that the number of ambulances had been increased to 602 and the helplines augmented to reduce response time. The affidavit said more lines were added to its helpline numbers, the number of ambulances were increased to 602 from 334 earlier, the Delhi government procured more than 11 lakh rapid antigen test kits and had a buffer of 8.27 lakh test kits and is offering free testing at all government hospitals and dispensaries. Of the 602 ambulances, 273 are for Covid patients and 294 for non-Covid use, the affidavit said. The Delhi government said it had capped the price of RT/PCR test at Rs 2,400, including taxes. The rapid test’s cost had been capped at Rs 450 and private labs had been asked to not refuse home collection of samples.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/govt-doing-enough-to-tackle-covid-19-cases-delhi-high-court/story-amnnompIwdvkhQhCt9kyNK.html
27-07-2020||City||Resolve funds issue, high court tells Delhi govt, civic body||New Delhi: The Delhi High Court on Monday asked the Delhi government and the North Delhi Municipal Corporation to solve the issue of release of funds for sanitation workers. It said depletion of the government’s revenue cannot be an answer for the lack of funds with municipal corporations to pay salaries to its staff. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan said a solution has to be found and listed the matter for hearing on August 10 on a plea by the corporation, which alleged that the Delhi government had not paid Rs 90.60 crore for the salaries of sanitation workers for the first quarter ending June 30. The application, which was filed in a pending petition, also contended that Rs 181 crore for the second quarter (is also pending. During the hearing, advocate Rahul Mehra, the Delhi government standing counsel (criminal), told the court that the government’s revenues were depleting but it would do the needful. Salaries have been paid till May. June and July are pending. The court said this cannot be an explanation and some solution had to be chalked out. It asked both the parties to sit down and come to a solution and posted the matter for further hearing on August 10. The North Delhi Municipal Corporation, in its application filed through advocate Mini Pushkarna, said the funding was meant for the payment of salaries of ‘safai karamchaaris’ and sanitation activities. In its application, the corporation said it was bearing expenditure towards salaries till May 2020, sanitation services and providing PPE kits, gloves, masks, sanitisers to the workers from its own internal resources, in the absence of any amount being released by the Delhi government. It claimed the Delhi government had not been releasing grant-in-aid payments timely under the category of health and released an amount of Rs 27.66 crore or May under health plan only on July 9. It said the present liabilities of North DMC as on July 1 was Rs 4,757.18 crore, which included unpaid salaries, pensions, terminal benefits, arrears. “Besides, there are monthly liabilities towards the salary of employees amounting to Rs 343 crore per month, with the annual liability towards the salary component alone being Rs 4,116 crore,” the plea read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/resolve-funds-issue-high-court-tells-delhi-govt-civic-body/story-uorrIUY5eCL9y0HcRRqjEN.html
27-07-2020||City||Do not tolerate obstacles in development works: Ajit Pawar instructs Pune administration||PUNE Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar on Monday took a review of incomplete road projects in the city and instructed the Pune municipal administration to clear obstacles of land acquisition, so that development works are not hampered.Among the projects discussed was the proposed riverside elevated road from Shivane to Kharadi. Nationalist Congress Party NCP) MLA Sunil Tingre appealed to Pawar to clear the land hurdles in Vadgaon sheri assembly constituency. Pawar was appraised that some of the developers are not ready to give their land for road works and hence, the projects were getting delayed.“If the developers and other people are not giving their land for development works, stop all their work at other places. Obstruction to any development project should not be tolerated. The district collector should speed up land acquisition,” Pawar said. PMC administration claimed that some land owners have even approached the court and Pawar promised to provide legal help to the administration from the state government. Pawar also instructed the civic body to float tenders for flyovers near Kharadi and Vishrantwadi.Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar and district collector Naval Kishore Ram have been instructed to keep funds required for land acquisition ready. “As soon as the order comes from the court, pay the cost to land owner and acquire it,” said Pawar.Defence landPune guardian minister Ajit Pawar reviewed all the 22 pending roads works coming under Vadagaon sheri assembly constituency. Some of these projects come under defence lands and hence, a meeting has been scheduled, under the leadership of NCP chief Sharad Pawar, to sort out the defence land issues||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/do-not-tolerate-obstacles-in-development-works-ajit-pawar-instructs-pune-administration/story-o7qlYuEqUpi9gcD1d96lgL.html
27-07-2020||City||Water supply to be affected in parts of Delhi on Tuesday||New Delhi: The Delhi Jal Board (DJB) on Monday said that due to an increase in ammonia levels (pollutants) in raw water discharged from Haryana , water supply will be available at low pressure in parts of west, north, central and south Delhi, including Delhi Cantonment, on Tuesday as well. The high levels of ammonia had affected the production capacity of the water treatment plants at Chandrawal, Okhla and Wazirabad. The capacity is being restored and hence supply will be low, DJB officials said. DJB vice-chairperson Raghav Chadha said, “Due to increase in pollutants in raw water released from Haryana, the water supply will be affected in some parts of the city. We endeavour to restore normal water supply as soon as possible. Please use water judiciously.” An advisory issued by the water utility has asked the public to make judicious use of water. People can reach out to the emergency control room numbers (1916, 23527679, 23634469) in case of requirement of water tanker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/water-supply-to-be-affected-in-parts-of-delhi-on-tuesday/story-b88m66nKbpGc2GY95mNJjK.html
27-07-2020||City||Ludhiana man found dead, family suspects murder||A 19-year-old man was found dead in a vacant plot near his house in Ghalauti village of Payal on Sunday evening. The deceased has been identified as Ashokveer Singh, a resident of Ghalauti village. Singh’s family suspects that he has been murdered. Manmohan Singh, father of the victim said that his son had gone for an evening walk, but did not return home. His family members conducted a search and found him dead in a vacant plot near their house.Manmohan said that the marks of injuries noticed on his face and head hinted that he was murdered with a blunt weapon.Superintendent of Police (SP, detective) Jagwinder Singh Cheema said that the body has been sent for postmortem to the civil hospital. The police are investigating the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-man-found-dead-family-suspects-murder/story-eWG1nlkiOAOGygbFpOBACL.html
27-07-2020||City||Ludhiana deputy mayor alleges discrimination in relief distribution, writes to CM||Alleging discrimination in the free distribution of milk and other ration to the poor, deputy mayor Sarbjeet Kaur shot off a letter to Punjab food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister, Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Sunday. A copy of the letter has also been forwarded to chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, Punjab chief secretary, Vini Mahajan, deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma and president of Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee Sunil Jakhar. In the letter, Kaur alleged that her husband Jarnail Singh Shimlapuri had even contacted Bharat Bhushan, mayor Balkar Sandhu and nodal officer of the area Varinder Pathak, but to no avail. Kaur stated that she had provided a list of 1,500 residents to the administration since lockdown was announced in the state, but “the administration has failed to deliver even a single kit, due to which the residents of the area are suffering”.“This lackadaisical approach would also taint the image of the Congress party in the south constituency. No kits were provided for my ward. Cabinet minister Ashu should look into the matter and the kits should be delivered at the earliest,” said Kaur.Nodal officer for distribution of ration kits in Ludhiana south constituency, Varinder Pathak said, “The department had received a demand from the deputy mayor and kits were also supplied in the past. However, the department receives limited kits and those have to be allocated to different wards. There is some pendency but the area of deputy mayor has not been ignored.”Local Congress leaders refute claimsLocal Congress leaders from south constituency including Sunil Shukla, Dr Deepak Mannan, Dinesh Rai, Harpal Singh Saini among others refuted the claims of Sarbjeet Kaur. A video went viral on social media on Monday wherein the leaders stated that ration has been distributed to over 1,500 families in ward number 35 due to the efforts of Bharat Bhushan Ashu and Ankit Bansal, officer on special duty (OSD) to CM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-deputy-mayor-alleges-discrimination-in-relief-distribution-writes-to-cm/story-Q9zWS937XnEI3TvEcm8xxH.html
27-07-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka’s Covid-19 tally crosses one lakh-mark with record single-day spike of 5,324 cases||Karnataka’s Covid-19 tally crossed the one lakh-mark on Monday, almost five months since reporting its first case on March 8. The state witnessed a record single-day spike in coronavirus infections with 5,324 cases, taking the cumulative tally to 1,01, 465 which includes 37,685 discharges and 1,953 deaths. The state is now second only to Maharashtra in terms of the number of active Covid cases in the country at 61, 819.State capital Benglauru recorded 1,470 cases in a day which is significantly lower than over 2,000 infections it has been averaging over the last fortnight. However, with 33,816 active cases, the capital still accounts for nearly half of all the active cases in the state.Despite the record spike and the grim milestone, chief minister BS Yediyurappa has reiterated that there was no question of any further lockdown.“We have to learn to live with the virus and take adequate precautions including social distancing, wearing masks and other measures. The focus should be on economic revival and progress,” he said while participating at an event to mark his government’s first anniversary celebrations.Seventy five deaths due to Covid-19 were reported in the past 24 hours, taking the death toll to 1,953, the health department said.A former Karnataka minister, Raja Madangopala Naik, died due to Covid-19 at Kalburgi’s ESI hospital on Monday. The 70-year-old three-term legislator had tested positive for the virus five days ago.Meanwhile, 13 of the 22 people detained in an incident where an ambulance was set on fire on July 21 in Belgavi tested positive for Covid-19. The had been detained following violent stone pelting and assault on health care workers following the death of a Covid patient.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-crosses-one-lakh-mark-with-record-single-day-spike-of-5-324-covid-19-cases/story-CMemuv2IQyGLdSxxJSgXEN.html
27-07-2020||Mumbai||Four try withdraw money from Covid victim’s account, arrested||The Mumbai crime branch arrested four men who allegedly tried to withdraw money from the bank account of an 81-year-old private developer in Juhu, who died of Covid -19 last month. The main accused worked with the deceased. He forged the victim’s Aadhar card and bank documents and tried to withdraw money through a mobile application.The arrested accused Shafiq Mehboob Shaikh, 39, Pritesh alias Pintu Bipinchandra Mandaliya, Arshad Rafiq Sayyed and Swapnil Oglekar are residents of Mira Road area. According to the police, Shaikh is the mastermind of the racket and he was working as a liaison person in the developer’s office. The developer died on June 20 of Covid-19. Shaikh stole the deceased’s bank details like cheque book, Aadhar card and few other documents from his office after his death and planned to withdraw money from his bank account through a cyber fraudster. Shaikh then gave all those documents to his another accomplice who created a bogus Aadhar card by changing deceased’s photograph with his picture and obtained duplicate SIM card of the deceased which was registered with the bank from a service provider, claiming that he has lost his sim card, said police inspector Chimaji Adhav of unit 11.After getting the SIM card, another accomplice tried to withdraw money from the deceased’s bank account through a banking app, after generating a one-time password, added Adhav.The deceased’s wife’s bank account was handled by the bank manager. After the death, when the manager visited the office and found cheque books missing, a complaint was registered in the Juhu police station. During an inquiry, the official of unit 11 learnt about the accused and they conducted a raid in a room in Dahisar and arrested the accused. Police seized the deceased’s Aadhar card, bank details and a duplicate SIM card, deputy commissioner of police Akbar Pathan of the crime branch said. The accused were produced in the court and they were remanded in police custody till July 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/four-try-withdraw-money-from-covid-victim-s-account-arrested/story-euIKIRjtd5tsb3bKw2WWDM.html
27-07-2020||Chandigarh||Money exchanger robbed of ₹3 lakh in Chandigarh market||Two masked men wielding a gun and an axe looted ₹3 lakh from a Western Union branch in broad daylight at Sector 27, Chandigarh, on Monday. Sanjiv Kumar Kalia, who runs the currency exchange business besides propery consultancy from a booth in the Sector-27 market, told police that he had returned from a bank in the same sector after withdrawing ₹2.8 lakh in the afternoon.He had kept the money in the drawer along with ₹20,000 already present there and gone to a public toilet in the market. “Just as I returned, the duo walked into my shop (SK Enterprises) at 2:10pm,” he said.Kalia, who is a resident of Raipur Khurd, said one man was wearing a cap while his accomplice was wearing a helmet. Both had covered their faces with cloth. “One of the accused put a pistol to my head and asked for keys to the drawer. He also threatened to shoot me if I raised the alarm,” said the victim, adding that the robber spoke in Punjabi. “Initially, I thought some friend might be playing a prank on me, but on seeing the other man holding an axe too, I realised something was wrong.”Without putting up any resistance, Kalia handed over the keys to the robbers, who stashed the money in a laptop bag and walked out of the shop. Kalia told police that the duo had come on a motorcycle that was parked behind a car outside his shop. The motorcycle was caught by one of the CCTV cameras installed in the area. The accused can be seen fleeing towards Sector 19, in the footage.Kalia, who is into the business of currency exchange for over a decade, said: “My regular clients know that I do not keep cash in the shop, and most of them get money transferred into their accounts. The cash was withdrawn to hand over to the clients whose transactions are below ₹50,000.” “A case has been registered under Section 392 (robbery) of the Indian Penal Code besides the Arms Act at the police station in Sector 26,” said deputy superintendent of police Charanjit Singh, adding that investigations are underway.LOOT SPREE IN TRICITYMay 31:Four people make unsuccessful bid to loot an ATM at Kishangarh in ChandigarhJune 10: Miscreants flee with ATM containing ₹16 lakh uprooted from a PNB kiosk at Dappar near LalruJune 17: In a broad daylight robbery, two men loot ₹4.8 lakh at gunpoint from an all-woman branch of PNB in Phase 3A, Mohali June 18: Masked man flee with ₹7.6 lakh from a Union Bank of India ATM at Kishangarh in Chandigarh July 20: Two men break into a PNB ATM at Gharuan village in Kharar||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/money-exchanger-robbed-of-3-lakh-in-chandigarh-market/story-u2AUTVgHhAlZQWbzE1VxNJ.html
27-07-2020||City||Majha farmers up area under basmati by 20% in hope for better prices||Amritsar Farmers in the Majha region, especially from Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur and Amritsar districts, have increased the area under basmati by 20% over last year, hoping to see remunerative prices this year. Exporters and officials of the agriculture department are optimistic that basmati will fetch a good prices with demand on exporting countries on the rise, as these want to stock up. Basmati has been transplanted on 2.6 lakh hectare this year and 2.2 lakh hectare in 2019.“Farmers hope to get remunerative prices this year as the exports to Iran, which is the largest importer of India’s branded and un-branded aromatic rice, are back on track after initially facing roadblocks as US had imposed trade sanctions,” said Kisan Sangharsh Committee (KSC)’s state convener Kawalpreet Singh Pannu.Last year, farmers had fetched between Rs 2,500 and 2,800 per quintal; most say, this year they expected between Rs 4,000 and Rs 5,000 per quintal.Agriculture department official claim they had encouraged farmers to increase the area under basmati, as the crop consumes lower water than under varieties. In Amritsar, the area under basmati has dipped 7% from 1.4 lakh hectare in 2019 to 1.3 lakh hectare this year. Besides Majha, the basmati varieties, 1121 and 1509, is also cultivated in some parts of Hoshiarpur, Muktsar and Fazilka. In Haryana, basmati is largely grown in Karnal and its adjoining districts. Punjab and Haryana collectively contribute to 75% of the exports to various countries including Iran, Saudi Arab, Iraq, Kuwait etc.Pannu added, “The government should fix the minimum support price (MSP) for the basmati to encourage farmers more. Without MSP, farmers have been fetching only between Rs 2,500 and Rs 2,600 per quintal. This does not even cover the cultivation expenses.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/majha-farmers-up-area-under-basmati-by-20-in-hope-for-better-prices/story-bezvlS5rTDAdMMmlaTmvPK.html
27-07-2020||City||Beautification drive in Pune draws criticism||Pune: Citizen rights activist has termed the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) decision of installation of decorative electricity poles at Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) chowk as a wasteful expenditure of taxpayers’ money. Vivek Velankar of Sajak Nagrik Manch, in a petition to municipal commissioner, stated that the civic body is undergoing financial crisis and still it has erected a decorative electricity police at the chowk which is uncalled for and an absolute wasteful expenditure. It is a criminal offence of wasting citizens’ money on unproductive assets and action must be taken against officials concerned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/beautification-drive-in-pune-draws-criticism/story-iY6FOFV5oWscx2XCpMt97M.html
27-07-2020||City||Ambala gets new police station in Sector 9||Inspector General of Police, Y Purna Kumar (Ambala range) inaugurated a new police station in Sector 9 here on Monday. The inauguration ceremony started with the plantation of saplings by the IG at the police station premises in the presence of senior police officials of the district. This is the 18th police station of the district where Inspector Hamir Singh took charge as the station house officer. While inaugurating the station premises, IG said, “With this new police station, it will become easier to curb crime in the area. Also, as areas of other police stations are added to this new station, investigations will ramp-up quickly.”The Sector 9 police station will cater to complaints from nearby sectors and a few villages in the city area that was earlier with Ambala Sadar, Baldev Nagar and Ambala City police stations, SP Abhishek Jorwal said. “Areas in Ambala City like Sectors 7, 8, 9, 10, Laxmi Nagar, Durga Nagar, Patel Nagar and villages like Naseerpur, Saunda, Kola, Jandli have been included in the newly formed police station,” SP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ambala-gets-new-police-station-in-sector-9/story-6iTmMXHbuBXls6KAyjDKiJ.html
27-07-2020||City||Demand for bringing all Sikhs, Hindus from Afghanistan||Chandigarh Religious bodies are demanding that all Sikhs and Hindu families living in Afghanistan be brought to India at the earliest. The reaction came a day after 11 members of the Sikh and Hindu minorities in Afghanistan, including a community leader who was recently abducted by terrorists, arrived in New Delhi on Sunday after the Indian embassy in Kabul facilitated their travel. “Why in small groups, bring all of them in one go,” said Gurpreet Singh, who heads Chandigarh-based Global Sikh Council. Nidan Singh Sachdeva, who was kidnapped from Paktia province last month and was released on July 18, was among part the 11 Afghan nationals who arrived in New Delhi on Sunday. As per data with the Indian authorities, there are at least 575 Sikhs and Hindus living in Afghanistan of which 350 have valid Afghan passports and majority of them have the Indian visa. Concerns among Afghanistan’s dwindling Sikh minority have increased after a terror attack on a Sikh place of worship in Kabul in March that left 25 people dead and many others injured. The attack was claimed by the Islamic State, though Indian and Afghan security officials believe the assault was planned and executed by Pakistan-based Haqqani Network and Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT). “Today I met the officers in the ministry of external affairs and have requested them to bring all of them (Sikhs and Hindus) to India. Those who don’t have passports, Indian consulate in Kabul should help them in procuring valid travel documents,” said Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) president Manjinder Singh Sirsa. In the next batch, 70 Sikhs and Hindus are expected to reach Delhi in the first week of August. Sirsa said he had offered the Indian government that DSGMC would pay for the travel expenses of all those coming from Afghanistan. “We will also provide them lodging and food during their initial days and gradually help them find work to earn a livelihood.” According to reports in the Afghan media, there were some 2.2 lakh Sikhs and Hindus in Afghanistan in the 1980s. Their numbers dwindled to 15,000 when the Taliban took control. Now, as per an estimate, the number of Sikh and Hindu population is less than 600.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/demand-for-bringing-all-sikhs-hindus-from-afghanistan/story-l7B6AHpPPmRuGwsyGOw9DL.html
27-07-2020||City||Man arrested for sexually assaulting dog in Thane||Shrinagar police arrested a man for sexually assaulting a dog. Animal activists found him raping a dog in the night hours after which they informed police who were patrolling nearby.The accused Vijay Chalke, 40 is a labourer. He was roaming on the street in the night, he held a dog and allegedly raped. According to Shrinagar police, some animal activists who gives food to all street dogs, saw him raping the dog on the skywalk near old passport office on Saturday night and they immediately informed police.Shrinagar police station Senior police inspector, Vijay Shinde said, “ We have taken complaint of animal activists who found the man sexually assaulting a dog. We arrested him under Indian penal code 377. We have sent the dog to Thane Municipal Corporation’s animal hospital for further treatment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-arrested-for-sexually-assaulting-dog-in-thane/story-uCSedjROMljk25z8SK7FzN.html
27-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s Covid tally climbs to 910 with 23 fresh cases||It took Chandigarh just four days to add 100 cases to its tally that crossed the 900 mark with 23 fresh cases on Monday.The number of active cases, which crossed the 300 mark for the first time on Sunday, has now reached 321. The total stands at 910, of which 575 patients have been discharged and 14 have succumbed to the infection. The new cases have been reported from across the city, including Sectors 14, 24, 19, 23, 29, 39, 44, 49, 50, 51 and 52 besides Kishangarh, Khuda Lahora, Bapudham Colony, Manimajra and Mauli Jagran.Among those infected, four are contacts of positive cases reported from the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research while one is a contact of a previously reported case from Government Medical College and Hospital. A 31-year-old male staffer of a hospital in Mohali has also tested positive. He is a resident of Sector 52. Meanwhile, it has come to light that the 67-year-old man from Sector 38, who died on Sunday night, had tested negative for the virus on July 10 and 11, following which he was stabilised at the PGIMER before being shifted to the civil hospital in Sector 48 on July 14, where he succumbedDr Harish Dasari, nodal officer for the Sector-48 facility, said the patient’s condition kept fluctuating, and he died after suffering multiple organ failure on Sunday. Officials said the man was also a diabetes and hypertension patient and “his lungs were badly affected with Covid-19 pneumonia”.Public dealing suspended in estate office The UT estate office suspended public dealing on Monday, and it will continue so on Tuesday too. The staff strength in the office was reduced to 50%. In one of the branches, where nearly 90-odd employees sit in a hall, the entire staff was asked to work from home. The move came after a woman’s employee’s husband tested positive for Covid-19 recently.Odd-even may return in congested marketsThe administration is planning to reimpose odd-even rule for opening of shops in congested markets of the city.During the review meeting held on Monday, UT administrator VPS Badnore directed the MC commissioner to identify the congested and other markets where violations of social distancing norms are more evident, so that stringent regulatory measures, including weekend closures and odd-even formula, could be considered for them.In earlier phases of the lockdown, the administration had imposed the odd-even formula in all congested markets, such as Patel Market in Sector 15, Gandhi Market in Sector 18, Sadar Bazar and Palika Bazar in Sector 19, Shastri Market in Sector 22, Janata Market in Sector 27, Krishna Market in Sector 41 and Rehri Market in Sector 46.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-covid-tally-climbs-to-910-with-23-fresh-cases/story-0zLXhP2aqoMwr3T9mPpWEN.html
27-07-2020||City||Kotkapura firing case: HC grants interim bail to ex-DSP Baljit||Chandigarh/Faridkot The Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday granted interim bail to then Kotkapura DSP Baljit Singh in FIR number 192 registered on October 14, 2015 in connection with the Kotkapura firing incident.Granting interim bail to Baljit Singh, justice Anil Kshetarpal stated in the order that he will join investigation on July 29 at 10am. “In the meantime, in the event of arrest, the petitioner shall be released on interim bail. The petitioner shall join the investigation as and when called upon to do so,” he stated.Meanwhile, the matter was adjourned to July 31.The special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 police firing incidents had summoned Baljit to join investigation on a couple of occasions but he had failed to appear. Fearing arrest, he had moved an anticipatory bail plea in the court of district and sessions court at Faridkot, earlier, this month but it was dismissed. Later, the district court had allowed an application for his arrest filed by SIT.Baljit, who is now SP, had moved the high court seeking pre-arrest bail in the FIR registered on October 14, 2015. A few more offences including criminal breach of trust, fabricating evidence and criminal conspiracy were added in June and July 2020 in this FIR.He had argued that the entire gamut of allegations had already been gone into in another FIR registered on August 7, 2018 at Kotkapura against him as well as other accused, in which challan, too has been filed. On July 22, the high court had stayed his arrest in the same incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kotkapura-firing-case-hc-grantsinterim-bail-to-ex-dsp-baljit/story-vyE3sZ5MpFoBEeaHY0FCaI.html
27-07-2020||City||Bir theft case: Bail to 5 dera followers SIT had arrested||A Faridkot court on Monday granted bail to five Dera Sacha Sauda followers that the Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing sacrilege cases in connection with a case of theft of a bir of Guru Granth Sahib had arrested. The ‘bir’ was stolen from Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village gurdwara on June 1, 2015. An FIR was registered the next day at the Bajakhana police station. On October 12, 2015, torn pages of the ‘bir’ were found scattered in front of a gurdwara in the adjoining Bargari village, resulting in state-wide protests and the killing of two Sikh protesters in firing.On Monday, the court of duty magistrate Suresh Kumar allowed the bail applications of Nishan Singh and Ranjit Singh, alias, Bhola, both of Kotkapura; Baljit Singh of Sikhanwala village, Randeep Singh, alias Neela, and Narinder Sharma, both of Faridkot, and ordered their release. They were lodged in Bathinda jail under judicial custody.Dera followers’ counsel Vinod Monga argued that there was not even an iota of evidence to connect the accused with the alleged crime. He added that none of the accused was named in the FIR and investigation was handed over to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). District attorney Rajnish Goyal opposed the bail application of the accused on the grounds that arrest of other co-accused namely Harsh Dhuri, Sandeep Bareta and Pardeep Kler is pending. The court, however, allowed the bail applications. The court also stated in the order that as far as contentions of the defence counsel that parallel investigation with the investigation of the CBI by the SIT is wrong is concerned, the same shall be decided by the court on merits as a separate application in this regard is pending in court for August 3.The SIT, led by DIG Ranbir Singh Khatra, on July 4, had arrested seven dera followers in Faridkot district. Later on July 6, SIT filed a charge-sheet in against 11 persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bir-theft-case-bail-to-5-dera-followers-sit-had-arrested/story-RbYHin26Pl5X5jKG6BEvOO.html
27-07-2020||Chandigarh||Cong members protest against ‘murder of democracy’ by BJP, forget social distancing||Congress members protested against what they called the “murder of democracy and buying of opposition leaders” by the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, but forgot to observe social distancing in Panchkula on Monday. Many of them were also seen with their face masks pulled down. The event was organised on the call of Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee president Kumari Selja in an open ground in Sector 5.The MLAs and local leaders who attended sat in tents close to each other and holding placards. Some pulled down their masks . “The protest started at 11 am and continued till 1pm. It was attended by around a 100 persons. The aim was to raise a voice against the BJP, which is creating crisis in the state,” said Sudha Bhardwaj, officiating chief, Haryana Women’s unit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cong-members-protest-against-murder-of-democracy-by-bjp-forget-social-distancing/story-rKM45FBKlq5oFPk8CUiTiP.html
27-07-2020||Chandigarh||Odd-even rule may return in Chandigarh’s congested markets||The Chandigarh administration is planning to reimpose odd-even rule for opening of shops in congested markets of the city.During the review meeting held on Monday, UT administrator VPS Badnore directed the MC commissioner to identify the congested and other markets where violations of social distancing norms are more evident, so that stringent regulatory measures, including weekend closures and odd-even formula, could be considered for them.In earlier phases of the lockdown, the administration had imposed the odd-even formula in all congested markets, such as Patel Market in Sector 15, Gandhi Market in Sector 18, Sadar Bazar and Palika Bazar in Sector 19, Shastri Market in Sector 22, Janata Market in Sector 27, Krishna Market in Sector 41 and Rehri Market in Sector 46.Meanwhile, during the meeting, PGIMER authorities apprised the administrator about feasibility of doing antigen testing and the ICMR protocol finalised for it. Badnore told them that at least 1,000 such testing kits be procured by the PGIMER and used primarily for OPD patients to validate their usefulness.The administrator also directed that all facilities of the health department should be operationalised for collection of samples of Covid-19 suspects. He also directed that vulnerable population needs to be specifically screened and senior citizen associations may also be consulted for any immediate medical assistance in this tough time.Earlier during the day, Badnore also inaugurated a Covid awareness van at Punjab Raj Bhawan. The van will make rounds in all sectors and screen awareness videos.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/odd-even-rule-may-return-in-chandigarh-s-congested-markets/story-chkXWnl06hNXOdYuCcAByK.html
27-07-2020||City||With passengers scarce, transporters unwilling to ply buses||Jalandhar Even as the government order on allowing only limited passengers in buses, including minibuses, was lifted a month ago, the bus transport business is yet to get back on its feet. From the local bus stand, over 1,600 time slots operated to Delhi, Jammu, Haryana, Amritsar and others; the figure has now come down to 160. The primary reason remains low footfall of passengers due to covid-19, while increasing fuel prices are making it difficult for operators to manage expenses. Former minister Avtar Henry, owner of Kartar Buses, said he had not resumed services, amid the high rate of diesel and taxes. “Lack of passengers is another reason. Both the Centre and the state governments have ignored the plight of state transporters. We have requested the state government to waive toll tax and the bus stand fee to help us manage at least some expenses. Successive governments have taken no decision.”General manager roadways, depot-1 Navraj Batish said, “Buses are plying on major routes only. There are 160 routes including on 50 times, when private operators are plying buses per day. Minibus service is yet to resume, even as the government has granted them permission.”A private bus conductor Surinder Singh said passengers were scarce and this discouraged big transporters or operating at low capacity. Roadways bus stand inspector Shinderpal Singh, who looks after plying schedule, said, “Buses that are plying are facing huge losses due to the low occupancy.” He said after the two-month suspension, due to covid-19 pandemic, a fleet of around 150 Punjab roadways/PRTC was started on May 18, with even the restrictions on number of passengers lifted on June 28. He added that buses were now running on 55 main routes, such as Patiala, Amritsar, Ludhiana, Pathankot and others across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-passengers-scarce-transporters-unwilling-to-ply-buses/story-lhyfl2cqAxeRHXxcxWTNYL.html
27-07-2020||City||Senior citizen duped of ₹5.54 lakh in online fraud||A retired Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC) engineer was cheated of ₹5.54 lakh in online fraud.The complainant T Venkateshwar Rao, 63, downloaded a popular money transfer application last week after his grocery and milk delivery persons suggested that he avoid using cash. A few hours after he downloaded the application, Rao received a call from a person who posed as a customer care executive and identified himself as RK Sharma.“On the pretext of helping the senior citizen set up an account, the fraudster tricked Rao into giving his debit card details, including the CVV number. Within the next few minutes, the accused siphoned off ₹2.46 lakh from his account,” said an officer from Taloja police station.When Rao told him that he had lost money, the ‘executive’ asked him to use an Android phone and claimed that the money was debited due to technical issues. The conman then guided him to download a remote-control support application.Rao then lost another ₹3 lakh in three transactions and ₹8,500 from another bank account. Collectively, the senior citizen was cheated of ₹5.54 lakh, said police.The Taloja police have registered a case of cheating against the accused who claimed to be Sharma.Rao told the police that during the call, he also received a message that his money was transferred into another account with the name of ‘Aadharsheela’. The local police have also taken assistance from the cyber cell of the Navi Mumbai crime branch for leads in the investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/senior-citizen-duped-of-5-54-lakh-in-online-fraud/story-HegnviZKTI4OK4xpkpHdEM.html
27-07-2020||City||Maintain strict vigil along Indo-China border in Kinnaur, Lahaul & Spiti: HP Cong chief||Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee president Kuldeep Rathore on Monday asked chief minister Jai Ram Thakur to order the police to maintain strict vigil near the Indo-China border in Kinnaur and Lahaul & Spiti districts and also take up the matter of construction activities by the Chinese army near the state’s border with the defence ministry.In a letter, Rathore apprised the CM about the road construction activities near Indo Tibetan border by the Chinese Army. He said some locals in Kunnu Charan village of Kinnaur have shared a video on social media regarding the issue. The video was also forwarded to him, Rathore said.He said the locals alleged that some construction activities by the Chinese Army has been going on about 22km from this village at Khempula pass. “The Chinese have constructed road and some activities near the Indian border has been noticed,” he said.The matter should be immediately reported to the defence ministry, he added.State BJP leaders spreading virus in HP: CongHimachal Pradesh Congress Committee also staged a protest against undemocratic policies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi led union government outside the Raj Bhawan here on Monday.State Congress president Kuldeep Singh Rathore said the BJP conspiring to form government in Rajasthan by creating unrest in chief minister Ashok Ghehlot led Congress government in the way it did to form government in Goa and Madhya Pradesh.Rathore also lashed out at state BJP leaders for allegedly spreading Covid-19 in the state and demanded a case of attempt to murder against them.He said chief minister Jai Ram Thakur had blamed members of Tablighi Jamaat for spreading coronavirus in the state and FIRs were also filed against some of them. “Now, when the BJP leaders are responsible for spreading virus why is he hesitating to take action against them,” Rathore said. Recently, a state BJP leader had tested positive for Covid-19 and violated the state government’s rules by meeting others who also tested positive later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maintain-strict-vigil-along-indo-china-border-in-kinnaur-lahaul-spiti-hp-cong-chief/story-ParSadFRK7xp1e7eIepfRN.html
27-07-2020||Chandigarh||Govt depriving poor of higher education: Bhagwant Mann||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)’s Punjab unit president MP Bhagwant Mann and state core committee chairman Principal Budhram on Monday said the policies and decisions of the state government led by Captain Amarinder Singh had deprived the poor and Dalit students of a chance to study in professional colleges and universities. They alleged that the successive SAD-BJP and Congress governments had a hidden agenda to target the poor and ‘Dalits’. Mann claimed that if those lording over the state and the Centre from time to time had been sensitive to the plight of the poor and ‘Dalits’, 25% enrolment would have been ensured for them in all private and government schools under the Right to Education Act and a large number of qualified and unemployed teachers would not have been left to take the road route to bag jobs. Principal Budhram alleged that Rs. 2,000 crore had been pending under the Centre’s Under-Matric and Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme for Dalit Students for the past five years and had it been released, private colleges would not have to withheld the students’ degrees. He added that the government did not release a single penny under the scholarship scheme to any public or private institution in the state for the last three years, and thus ruined the careers of millions of students. This laid bare the “anti-Dalit face” of the Captain government, he said. Principal Budhram said if the government could offer a rebate of Rs 1,000 crore to liquor, sand and gravel traders under the guise of the pandemic, why couldn’t it refund the examination fee of over Rs 80 crore taken from government school students, even as their exams did not take place. Mann said that if the AAP succeeded in forming the government in 2022, it would strive to make education accessible to all and offer equal opportunities for higher education in Punjab, on the lines of the Kejriwal government in Delhi, by bringing changes in the existing setup.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/govt-depriving-poor-of-higher-education-bhagwant-mann/story-1PeZJJfLyOQbJnDcEPFKxN.html
27-07-2020||Chandigarh||Disabled man, woman found dead in Amritsar village||The bodies of a 24-year-old disabled man and his lover were found hanging from a tree in the outskirts of Jhander village of Ajnala sub-division on Monday.The victims Jagroop Singh and Rajwinder Kaur, 20, are residents of Jhander village. Police said the victims had been living together for the last six months.Villagers found the bodies around 7am and alerted the police. Jhander station house officer (SHO) Avtar Singh said preliminary investigation suggests the couple died by suicide. He said, “According to family members, the victims had been in a relationship for the last few years. They had been living separately for the last six months.The woman’s parents said their daughter had not been in contact with them for six months. We have also recorded the victims’ parents’ statement. They have not blamed anyone for their children’s death.”Inquest proceedings have been initiated under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPc). Their post-mortems were conducted at Ajnala civil hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/disabled-man-lover-found-dead-in-amritsar-village/story-U5uzFnHxcguGXj78s1TPsI.html
27-07-2020||Noida||Woman’s body found stuffed in suitcase dumped in UP’s Ghaziabad||The Ghaziabad police on Monday morning recovered the body of a woman stuffed inside a suitcase which was dumped at New Hindon Vihar adjacent to the GT Road. The cops said that the woman was in the age group of 24-25 years.According to police, the hands and legs of the victim were tied with the help of dupatta and her body was stuffed inside a brown coloured suitcase.“There were no external injury marks over her body but her face had turned blackish in color which probably suggests that she died of suffocation. However, the exact cause of her death will be known only after the post-mortem report is received. It seems that she was murdered out of some family dispute and body dumped in Ghaziabad,” said Manish Mishra, superintendent of police (city).“We have formed several teams who are investigating the case and information has also been sought from nearby districts about any missing person and also to ascertain her identity,” he added.The police are scanning the CCTV footage.The cops said that the murder probably took place on Sunday night and the suitcase was dumped at the spot during the early hours. The police received the information from locals at around 7am on Monday.The case falls under the jurisdiction of the Sahibabad police station area. The police sources said that they also found marks of car tyres from near the spot which suggest that someone had brought the suitcase in a car and fled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/woman-s-body-found-stuffed-in-suitcase-dumped-in-up-s-ghaziabad/story-vYM1Jv8s3NYU8p2xp41JCM.html
27-07-2020||Chandigarh||2 day police remand for 4 held with heroin, weapon||Four persons, including a woman arrested on Sunday with heroin, fake currency notes and weapons by the Sohana police, were produced before a local court on Monday and sent to two-day police remand.The suspects were named by the police as Inderpreet Singh of Makdona village in Ropar, Jaswinder Singh of Neholka village in Mohali, Harjit Singh alias Lucky, a resident of Sector 45 in Chandigarh and Mamta from Amritsar.Police acted on a tip-off to arrest the four and recovered fake currency notes of ₹500 worth ₹40,000, 30 gram heroin, a .32 countrymade revolver with five live cartridges and an SUV (with registration number PB 37 E 0087) from them.Several cases under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) were registered earlier against Lucky and Mamta, who lived together in Chandigarh. The illegal weapon was recovered from Inderpreet Singh, who purchased it from Kanpur, police said.The police remand was sought to get contact details of the suspects and investigate drug supply sources, said sub inspector Barma Singh. “We have learnt that a Zirakpur based peddler used to supply drugs to them.”A case was registered under Sections 489-A, B, C and D of the IPC, 25-54-59 of the Arms Act and 21-61-85 of the NDPS Act at the Sohana police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-day-police-remand-for-4-held-with-heroin-weapon/story-VP6ZYFeuSGxpwpTkHIOhrJ.html
27-07-2020||City||Kharar bank employee among 32 fresh Covid cases in Punjab’s Mohali; district count climbs to 747||A State Bank of India branch in Kharar was sealed after a woman employee tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday, as Mohali saw no let-up in fresh cases with 32 reported from across the district, taking the total count to 747. Dr Manjit Singh, civil surgeon, Mohali, said, the SBI branch has been sealed and the health department will be taking samples of all its employees on Tuesday. Meanwhile, a day after the station house officer (SHO), Kharar City, was found infected with the virus leading to sealing of the premises, the administration decided to stop public dealing at all police stations in the district. Earlier, even Gharuan police station had to be sealed after 16 cops tested positive.The number of active cases in the district stand at 268, with 465 people recovering so far, 14 of whom were discharged on Monday. As many as 14 have succumbed to the disease.The fresh cases are spread across the district, with infections being reported from Phases 3B1, 6 and 10 besides Sectors 66, 67, 70 and 78 within Mohali city. The patients include an 80-year-old woman from Zirakpur besides three more senior citizens, aged 67, 72 and 77, from Mohali city. All have been admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kharar-bank-employee-among-32-fresh-covid-cases-in-punjab-s-mohali-district-count-climbs-to-747/story-GCqXwOuDOyVTYUKsJ6wTVI.html
27-07-2020||City||Stop terrorising Sikh youths with UAPA: Akal Takht to govts||Slamming the central and state governments for arresting Sikh youths on charges of reviving terrorism, Akal Takht’s acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh on Monday said the use of Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) to victimise Sikhs needs to stop.The statement came after Bholath MLA and Punjabi Ekta Party (PEP) chief Sukhpal Singh Khaira, along with rebel AAP legislators and families of the arrested youth, met the jathedar, seeking his intervention in the matter. They handed over a memorandum stating that it was a “well-designed conspiracy” by central agencies and Punjab police to implicate innocent Sikh/Dalit youths. The memorandum added that police are specifically targeting poor and innocent people, who are unable to raise their voice against such oppressive measures.The jathedar said, “The affected families shared their sorrows, which I found very tragic. The youths are being booked under UAPA and put behind bars without any reason or for minor offences. I think this is an attempt to create an atmosphere to terrorise Sikh youths. The youths may have committed some mistakes but it does not mean that their lives are completely ruined.”The head of the highest Sikh temporal seat added, “Today, Sikh youths are living in fear. We would like to ask the Centre and Punjab government to stop terrorising people. We have asked the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) to help those booked under UAPA and provide them legal assistance.”“Most youths who were booked belong to poor Dalit families. They were breadwinners of their families. One of them has committed suicide. There must be an impartial judicial probe into the suicide. Besides, an overall judicial probe must also be conducted to verify if these youths deserved to be booked under UAPA,” he added.The memorandum also demanded that a monthly pension of Rs 5,000 should be provided to aggrieved families.‘Allow Sikhs stuck abroad to return their motherland’Speaking about Sikhs languishing in jails, the jathedar said, “During the 550th birth anniversary celebrations of Guru Nanak, the Centre had promised to release Sikh prisoners in various jails of the country. However, only a few prisoners were released. I urge the Centre to release the remaining Sikh prisoners too.”He further said, “Many Sikhs were booked on various charges when things were not good in Punjab, and they got stuck abroad. Such youths should be allowed to return to their motherland. They are not being allowed to return for the last 30-35 years. The cases registered against them should be quashed. They should be allowed to return to their country so that they can pay obeisance at Sri Harmandar Sahib (Golden Temple) and Takht Sahiban (Sikh temporal seats) and be part of the celebrations of the 400th Parkash Utsav of 9th Sikh master Guru Teg Bahadar.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stop-terrorising-sikh-youths-under-uapa-akal-takht-to-govts/story-3w2fUKuge0mTQ9OSxQ8TpL.html
27-07-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal govt asks for public opinion on reimposing lockdown; orchardists, industrialists not keen||With a spike in Covid-19 cases in the state, the Himachal Pradesh government has started an online poll to ask people whether lockdown should be reimposed. An online poll has been started on himachal.mygov.in in which government asked the people to vote for complete lockdown and weekend lockdown. People can vote on this portal till August 1, after which the state government will take further decision about the lockdown.So far, 86% people have voted in favour of complete lockdown while 14% people are against the decision. As many as 68% people have voted in favour of weekend lockdown while 32% people have voted against it.INDUSTRIALISTS, ORCHARDS NOT KEEN Orchardists and industrialists are not keen about the idea of a lockdown. They are concerned as their income depends on their sale of fruits and the apple season has just begun in the state. The apple season will continue through August, September, and October. Himachal fruit vegetables and flower growing association president Harish Chauhan said, “If lockdown is reimposed the apple economy will bear the brunt of it. The government should remember that apple contributes Rs 4,500 crore to the state economy and orchardists have no other source of income. Orchardists have already suffered huge losses due to heavy rain, hailstorms and the last lockdown.”He said ensuring the health and safety of people was also important and as such if the government decides to reimpose lockdown, fruit markets and apple transportation should be allowed. “The state government should make proper arrangements for apple growers or ask companies to come and purchase the produce directly from the orchardists at their doorstep,” he added.Puneet Rajta, an orchardist from Kotkhai, said, “Did the government seek public opinion when it allowed tourists to enter Himachal or when the CM promoted Himachal as a quarantine destination? What plans does the government have for apple growers and what will growers do now that the apple season has begun?” Himachal Pradesh Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) has also requested the state government to follow a consultative approach and avoid halting industrial activities before announcing any lockdown.  Himachal CII chairperson Col Shailesh Pathak said industries in the state had suffered losses as industrial activities were permitted very late and that too with a lot of restrictions as compared to neighbouring states. “All stakeholders, including the industry, demonstrated a great sense of responsibility as well as camaraderie to combat Covid-19 in the state.” Industries are once again poised to suffer huge production-linked losses, which will have a ripple effect. Industrial activity has not been stopped in any part of the country where short duration lockdowns have been announced, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-govt-asks-for-public-opinion-on-reimposing-lockdown-orchardists-industrialists-not-keen/story-iaZIO2WV2otNyZn9zExoSP.html
27-07-2020||City||Himachal govt contemplating to open Sanskrit varsity: CM||The Himachal Pradesh government has accorded the status of second language to Sanskrit since it is rich in vocabulary, literature, thoughts and ideas, meanings and values, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Monday. He was presiding over the first meeting of Himachal Pradesh Sanskrit Academy through video conferencing.The CM said the state government is also contemplating to open a Sanskrit University for which land was being identified. He said Sanskrit scholars and Sanskrit Academy should come forward with suggestions to make this language accessible to common man so that students could be motivated to study it.The CM said Sanskrit, whatever be its antiquity, was more perfect than the Greek, more copious than the Latin, and more exquisitely refined than both of these. “Sanskrit was the oldest and most used language in the world. It is still taught in some schools in India and at a few places in the West,” he said. “With India playing an important part on the world stage, there has been a corresponding growth of interest in Sanskrit. In this era of unprecedented change and uncertainty, it can be a valuable tool to assess and look afresh at the society,” the CM said, adding that steps taken by the state government to popularise Sanskrit has been appreciated at various levels and even Prime Minister Narendra Modi lauded the decision to accord the status of second language to Sanskrit. He said efforts will be made to make Sanskrit more simple and practical to make it popular among the masses.State education minister and vice-chairman of Sanskrit Academy Suresh Bhardwaj said Himachal Pradesh is the second state after Uttarakhand to give Sanskrit the status of a second language. He said the state government will ensure that school children willing to opt for Sanskrit have adequate opportunities at various levels.CM launches home delivery of prasad of Chintpurni templeThe CM launched the ‘Online Prasad Chhinmastika Bhog’ of Chintpurni temple in Una district through video conferencing on Monday.He said the pandemic has forced the state government to close all temples and religious shrines to avoid social gathering and spread of virus. The CM said although most shrines were providing online ‘Darshan’ facility to the devotees but it was for the first time that the facility of providing ‘Prasad’ to the devotees has been launched with cooperation of the postal department.He appreciated the efforts of the Una administration for providing home delivery of ‘Prasad-Bhog’ to the devotees. He also thanked the Indian Postal Department for its cooperation in online home delivery of the ‘Prasad’. People will now be able to get ‘Prasad’ of this holy shrine at their door steps by applying online for ‘Darshan and Prasad’. He said with this, Himachal Pradesh is among the few states after Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board and Baba Kashi Vishwanath, Banaras, to have home delivery of ‘Prasad’.The CM said the state government is committed to develop Himachal as the best destination for religious tourism. “All major temples and shrines are being developed and maintained to attract devotees and religious tourists. Mata Chintpurni Temple was one of the most sacred religious place which draws tourists from all over the world,” he said.“The state will take steps to provide better connectivity to the shrine besides providing good infrastructure to facilitate devotees,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-govt-contemplating-to-open-sanskrit-varsity-cm/story-vmVwSxgA2mcbtx9aUwjL5J.html
27-07-2020||Chandigarh||Woman in car snatches Sahnewal resident’s gold chain||Women too seem to be taking to petty crime here, as was evident from an incident on Sunday in which three of them drove up in a car with a man, one stepped out and robbed a 53-year-old Sahnewal resident of her gold chain after asking her for directions.Suman Singh of Ganpati Colony of Sahnewal told the police on Sunday that she was returning home from the market on her scooter when the car, a Maruti Suzuki Dzire, intercepted her. A woman alighted from the passenger seat in front, enquired about an address and snatched her chain before fleeing in the car.Suman Singh could only note down the registration number 3957.Head Constable Wazir Singh said that a case had been registered under Section 379-B (snatching and use of force), and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code against unidentified persons. Police are scanning footage of closed-circuit television cameras in the area for clues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/woman-in-car-snatches-sahnewal-resident-s-gold-chain/story-3OBJeMIvWDjnMH1WZtsWJN.html
27-07-2020||Chandigarh||13 held for gathering in Ludhiana’s containment zone, gambling||Thirteen persons who gathered a spot in the city’s Chhawni Mohalla, a Covid-19 containment zone, to bet on card games were arrested on Sunday night and ₹1.48 lakh in cash recovered from their possession.Police gave the names of the men arrested as Akshay Kumar, Joginder Kumar, Lakhan, Rohit of Chawni Mohalla, Rohit Kumar of Sham Nagar, Anil Kumar of Preet Nagar, Ashok Kumar of Dharamkotia Colony, Darshan Kumar of Salem Tabri, Sanjeev Kumar of Jain Colony, Vinod Kumar of Rishi Nagar, Mani Kumar of Qilla Mohalla, Raman Kumar and Joginder Pal of Ghumar Mandi.Police raided the spot after being tipped off about men gathering there and betting on card games and arrested them, said assistant sub inspector Harbans Lal.A case was registered under sections of 188 (disobedience to orders duly promulgated by public servant); 269 (whoever unlawfully or negligently does any act which is likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to live); 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of diseased dangerous to life) of IPC, section 3 of Epidemic Disease Act; and 13, 3, 67 of the Gambling Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/13-held-for-gathering-in-ludhiana-s-containment-zone-gambling/story-TUJXmUWRN9vS70iHS1NN2K.html
27-07-2020||Chandigarh||Street theatre hit amid ban on public gatherings, artistes take up odd jobs to eke out a living||With the ban on public gatherings continuing with no relief in sight, the stalwarts of street theatre in Punjab have had to take up odd jobs to eke out a living. The artistes who in the pre-Covid world performed street plays with a strong political or social message have fallen on hard times.25-year-old Balwinder Changaliwala, who is associated with the People’s Theatre, Lehragaga led by Punjabi actor Samuel John, has sought work under the Mahatma Gandhi Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA). In the paddy season he had also undertaken grunt work in the fields. “We used to perform plays in villages and schools. Our plays had strong and pertinent messages for society. I found my job very rewarding. The flexible hours allowed me time to study,” says Balwinder, who is pursuing a master in arts degree in Punjabi at SUS Government College, Sunam.Satpal Bangan, who runs People’s Art, a Patiala-based theatre group of 10 -12 members, says that the lockdown and the Covid-19 pandemic had forced his team members to take up odd jobs despite being well-qualified. “Most of our members hold bachelor of education (BEd), teacher eligibility test, and master of philosophy (MPhil) degrees,” says Bangan. ARTISTES MENTAL HEALTH AFFECTED“Our group often performed in rural areas of Patiala, Sangrur, Mansa, Bathinda and Fatehgarh Sahib. We would also sell books during the event. However, we are struggling to stay afloat. Most of our team members, despite their degrees, are working as labourers, while one of them is selling vegetables. The Covid-19 crisis has not just affected our finances but has also taken a toll on our mental health,” he said. Actor and theatre artiste Samuel John says, “Street plays are directly linked to the people. However, when an artiste has to stay away from his audience, the gap affects performers psychologically.”“The Covid-19 pandemic has created a huge gap between the public and artistes. Sometimes the livelihood of performers depends on plays. The pandemic has affected artistes economically and psychologically,” said John.SOCIETY RISES TO ARTISTES AID Bangan said, “We used to perform an average three plays a day. When we fell on hard times, locals offered us wheat and money but it wasn’t enough to survive. These days I sell books online through social media.” Harwinder Diwana, who runs the Chetna Kala Kender Barnala theatre group, said members of the Bharatiya Kisan Union had held some gatherings in the past week where his team had performed. “Undoubtedly, some members of my team are going through a financial crisis. However, when an artiste works for the society, people come forward to help them. I, too, was offered help during the pandemic,” said Diwana.While the Punjab government has permitted shooting of films and music videos amid the Covid-19 crisis, with the caveat that they follow safety guidelines, those involved in producing street plays are waiting for the situation to improve.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/street-theatre-hit-amid-ban-on-public-gatherings-artistes-take-up-odd-jobs-to-eke-out-a-living/story-YFb5oOgSX5YBuHIQi6ub6I.html
27-07-2020||Pune||Pune lockdown sees fall in vehicle theft cases||The number of vehicle thefts reported in Pune city as well as Pimpri-Chinchwad reduced in the first half of 2020. Officials attribute the decline in vehicle thefts to the lockdown necessitated to contain the spread of the Covid-19 infection.In Pune, the number of vehicle thefts has gone down by more than half as compared to the same period last year. A total of 397 cases were reported between January 1 and July 17 in the current year while during the same period last year, 1,011 cases were registered.Of the 397 cases, 92 were recorded in January, 100 in February and 60 in March, the number came down to 8 in April and 19 in May. As soon as the lockdown was lifted, the cases rose to 63 in June and 45 until July 17. In Pimpri-Chinchwad, the number of cases reduced by around half as compared to last year. A total of 357 cases of vehicle thefts were reported in the first six months this year in Pimpri-Chinchwad. During the corresponding months last year, 681 cases were reported.The reason for the reduced number can be attributed to the lockdown and preventive action taken by the police, according to officials of both the forces.“Vehicle thefts generally happen in public spaces like bus stops, railway stations and markets. Since these were shut, we witnessed reduced cases. Additionally, there were good detections by the police which led to reduced criminals on the streets,” said Bachchan Singh, deputy commissioner of police, Pune.The security provided by secured parkings in societies and residential areas leads to reduced vehicle theft, he believes. “We have had good detections. Of course, lockdown is also one of the major reasons. But we have also taken enough preventive measures to ensure that the cases remain low,” said Sudhir Hiremath, deputy commissioner of police, Pimpri-Chinchwad police.The recorded cases of vehicle thefts have been reported from industrial as well as residential areas in Pimpri-Chinchwad.In Chakan, a company worker’s vehicle was stolen from near the gates of his workplace located in Mhalunge on July 23 while he was at work. It was a Bajaj Pulsar worth Rs 45,000.A worker at a company in Nighoj used his Splendor motorbike worth Rs 7,000 to come to the bus stop in Sagurdi, located 75-80km away, to board the company bus. When he got back from work, the motorbike was missing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-lockdown-sees-fall-in-vehicle-theft-cases/story-pbkAxn1GOzXns0GP30iO7K.html
27-07-2020||Pune||Overflowing Ambil Odha in one-hour rainfall brings back tragic memories of 2019 flash floods in Pune||Fears of flooding were back among residents of Dandekar bridge and adjoining settlements as Ambil Odha, an upstream, overflowed again with heavy rainfall in the city on Saturday. According to the India Meteorological Department, the Shivajinagar centre recorded a rainfall of 36 mm during Saturday evening. Heavy rainfall led to the flooding of low lying areas of Bibvewadi, Sahakarnagar, Katraj, Dandekar bridge area from where Ambil Odha traverses. The administration had to stop traffic flow on Shaneshwar Temple bridge for some time as the nullah was overflowing with rainwater, eyewitnesses said.Heavy rains lashed the city on Saturday and post lockdown many residents who stepped out for shopping were caught unaware in the hour of rain which led to flooding in several parts of the city. According to Bibvewadi-Sahakarnagar ward office, residents living in the adjoining area of Ambil Odha were shocked to see the nullah overflowing in just a span of one hour. Nitin Kadam, area resident and NCP president of Parvati constituency said, “We have been warning the residents and PMC about the impending floods for a long time. The PMC has not completed the fencing wall work and it is one of the main reasons that the low lying areas get inundated during heavy rains. Yesterday, the nullah overflowed and water was quite rough. We appeal to the PMC to install flood sensors and warning sensors for the citizens on a permanent basis.” Due to waterlogging, the ward officials, staffers and local residents stopped traffic flow at different spots as a precautionary move to prevent commuters from being washed away.Kanhaiylal Harilal Lakhani, ward officer, Dhankawadi- Sahakar nagar ward office said, “We had cleaned Ambil Odha pre-monsoon which led to the smooth flow of rainwater. The construction of the retaining wall work will be taken after monsoon season as per the policy decision. However, with heavy rains there are strong chances of flooding and commuters must be cautious while crossing the bridge.”Another resident Pradeep Raote from Parvati said, “Heavy rain for an hour created a flood-like situation here. This rekindled last year’s flood memories among locals.”The PMC had appointed a private agency PriMove which identified 77 illegal constructions along the Ambil Odha (stream), which caused the flash floods on September 25, 2019 wherein 26 people died in the floods. The Pune-based firm was given the task to carry out the survey of Ambil Odha and the reports were submitted to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) The PMC later issued notices to all the owners of these encroachments. According to PMC officials, PriMove has considered 20 metres as the width of the stream while conducting the survey. According to the city’s development plan of 1987, the width of the Ambil Odha was fixed at 18 metres and permission of construction was given accordingly. The PMC Engineers department later demolished some illegal settlement but it was described as eyewash by citizen activists. A section of area residents also claimed that they had legal documents to prove property ownership and the PMC action was aimed at spreading fear amongst the poor slum dwellers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/overflowing-ambil-odha-in-one-hour-rainfall-brings-back-tragic-memories-of-2019-flash-flood-in-pune/story-tluXHBxWuOtzvPlrwWEcUJ.html
27-07-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers take out tractor march in Punjab against three farm reform ordinances passed by Centre||Chandigarh: A dozen farmer organisations took out a tractor march across Punjab on Monday, demanding the repeal of the three ordinances and the Electricity Act brought by the Centre besides a rollback of the fuel price hike. In a release, All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordinating Committee Punjab convener Darshanpal said that members of 10 organisations, including Bhartiya Kisan Union (Dakonda), Kirti Kisan Union, Krantikari Kisan Union-Punjab, Punjab Kisan Union, Jamhuri Kisan Sabha, Kul Hind Kisan Sabha-Punjab, Kisan Sangharsh Committee Punjab, BKU (Ugrahan) and BKU (Krantikari), took part in the protest. The farmer leaders said that the three ordinances, namely the Farmer Product Trade and Commerce (Promotions and Assistants) Ordinance 2020, Price Guarantee and Farmer Services (Empowerment and Protection) Ordinance 2020 and Essential Commodities (Amendment) were aimed at handing over procurement of crops to corporate hands. “Just as these three ordinances pave the way for the marketing of crops to be handed over to corporate houses, the government will abolish the minimum support price,” Darshanpal claimed, rejecting the Centre’s assurances. The farmers protested outside the residences and offices of Shiromani Akali Dal-BJP MPs and MLAs, including SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal, Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal, and senior party leaders Adesh Pratap Singh Kairon, Sikandar Singh Maluka and Surjit Singh Rakhra. The farmer union spokesperson said that Sukhbir was misleading farmers to save the seat of his wife Harsimrat in the Union cabinet. He said that by supporting the decisions of the BJP, the Badals had exposed their anti-Punjab and anti-farmer stand. The leaders also criticised the Captain Amarinder Singh-led Congress government in Punjab for “saving the Narendra Modi government from the wrath of the farmers by banning rallies under the guise of coronavirus”. COVID GUIDELINES FLOUTED IN MALWABATHINDA: Violating Covid guidelines on social distancing, farmers, including women, held protests in south Malwa on Tuesday. Riding on tractors, several of the protesters, gathered in large numbers, were seen without covering masks.However, their plan to gheroa the residence and offices of senior Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) in Muktsar, Mansa and other districts were foiled by the police. Protesters were stopped near Kheowali village. Organisations took out protests in Bathinda city, with traffic remaining blocked for three hours in Mansa. No police case was lodged till the filing of this report.1,000 PARTICIPATE IN AMRITSARAMRITSAR Around 1,000 farmers on Monday participated in a tractor march to protest against three agriculture-related ordinances introduced by the Central government. The protest, which was jointly organized by Kisan Sangharash Committee (KSC), Revolutionary Marxist Party of India (RMPI), Kirti Kisan Union (KKU), Border Area Sangharsh Committee (BASC), Jamhuri Kisan Sabha (JKS), was initiated from the Company Bagh here, and culminated at the deputy commissioner (DC) office after passing through localities of the city.According to JKS’s vice president Rattan Singh Randhawa, around 500 tractors had taken part in the march. He claimed they had been burning effigies of the Central government for the last six days over the introduction of “anti-farmer” ordinances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-take-out-tractor-march-in-punjab-against-three-farm-reform-ordinances-passed-by-centre/story-LsTzPBKBwfRH8EJ9lJxKGI.html
27-07-2020||Chandigarh||Unfruitful year for Himachal: After extreme weather and Covid-19, it’s apple scab||The re-emergence of the deadly fungal scab after four decades poses a serious threat to Himachal’s ₹4500 crore apple economy, already hit hard by the Covid-19 outbreak and vagaries of the weather. Heavy hailstorms and rain in the blooming season of March and April hit the apple crop , and labour problems and fertiliser shortage during the Covid-19 lockdown added to the damage.The scab outbreak has partially affected crops in the main apple growing areas of Shimla, Mandi and Kullu districts.A common disease, apple scab affects the foliage, blossoms, and fruits of trees, which develop dark lesions and can prematurely drop off or be deformed. The plant also faces increased risk of secondary infection.Top politicians are also likely to suffer. Mandi, the home district of chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, himself an apple grower from Tandi village in Thunag, is the most affected. Horticulture minister Mahender Singh Thakur, also from the district, has an apple orchard in Karsog . Survey reveals extent of spreadA horticulture department survey reveals that scab has impacted Ani and Dalash areas of Kullu districts, Janjehli, Thunag and Karsog in Mandi district and Narkanda, Rohru, Kharapathar, Kotkhai, Jubbal and Chirgaon in Shimla district. Kinnaur and Lahaul and Spiti districts have reportedly been left unscathed.Apple is most important fruit crop which constitutes about 49% of the total area under fruit cultivation and 74% of total fruit production in Himachal Pradesh . Widespread scab attacks had been reported in the state in 1984 and again in 1986, impacting apple, HP’s most important fruit crop now covering about 49% of the total area under fruit cultivation, making up 74% of the total fruit production. However, farmers in the state were supported by the government to tackle the problem and eradicate it by 1998.Identification has been a problemExperts point to prolonged spells of rain and extended spring this year as the main reasons for the scab spread, with other factors. “Apple scab has affected almost 60% of the orchards,” says Dr Onkar Shad, a former botanist and now a farmer and leader of the state’s Kisan Sabha. “All farmers, particularly the youngsters, were unaware of the symptoms of the disease. The fungal disease resurfaced in the many areas of Kullu and Mandi district last year too, but this time it’s an epidemic.”The new generation of farmers was unaware of the disease and could not identify it when it started to infect the orchards, says professor Vijay Singh Thakur, former vice-chancellor of the Dr Yashwant Singh Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni. “Earlier, as the epidemic was reported in the 1980s, many of the youngsters were not even born then. Timely detection of disease could have minimised losses for farmers,” Thakur adds.Orchards neglected, no spraying doneAfter the Himachal Pradesh high court’s order in December 2018 to the state government to remove all forest encroachments, special teams were formed and apple trees on the forest land were partially chopped. “Scab has reared its ugly head mainly due to the removal of encroachments, where half-cut trees were left by the department after the court’s order. As pesticides were also not sprayed on the trees, there was a spread of scab, and sap sucking insects such as scale and woolly aphids, fuelled by erratic and wet weather conditions,” says Lokinder Singh Bisht, president of Progressive Growers Association.“Due to the lockdown and unavailability of labour too many orchards have been neglected and no maintenance and sprays have been carried out. Himachal apple growers are largely dependent on labourers from Nepal, but they could not enter because of Covid-19 restrictions,” adds Bisht. Outbreak under control, says governmentExperts advise that in the affected orchards, new infections can be reduced by removing leaf litter and trimmings and incinerating infected tissue. This will reduce the amount of new ascospores (spores in an ascus or sac in which fungi develop) released in the spring. JP Sharma, joint director, department of horticulture, says that although the situation is under control scab has spread in most parts of the apple-growing belts, including Shimla, Kullu and Mandi districts. “ We suggest orchardists to follow the spray schedule to prevent the disease. Teams of our scientists are also visiting and monitoring the scab-affected areas,” he adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/unfruitful-year-for-hp-after-extreme-weather-covid-19-it-s-apple-scab/story-TYtYwBYDCFS8T9sT95tbsK.html
27-07-2020||Pune||Lack of exercise, check-ups, stress during lockdown resulted in spike in sugar levels, say Pune doctors||During lockdown diabetic patients have reported an unusual spike in blood sugar levels, say city doctors.The primary reason for the spike is faulty lifestyle including lack of exercise, and irregular blood sugar level checkups, unhealthy food choices while sitting at home and fear and stress due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, say doctors.Dr Sanjay Ingle, zonal pathologist, Apollo Diagnostics, said, “Since people are advised to stay at home; it is the need of the hour to keep a tab on the sugar levels. People with high or unmanaged blood sugar levels tend to have less than normal blood flow, owing to which the body finds it difficult to harness nutrients and heal.”“Due to the weakened immune system, people suffering from diabetes are prone to develop infections, and may take a longer time to get back on track,” he said.He further added, “It is vital to keep your blood sugar levels in your target range to prevent serious health problems, such as heart disease, vision loss, and kidney disease.”Dr Milind Patil, associated with Sahyadri hospital, said, “It is true that we are witnessing a spike in the number of such cases. Some patients have also complained of lack of access to their regular medicines.”“Along with blood sugar spike, weight gain and complications due to diabetes like foot infections and urine infections are also rising. People can opt for either online consultations or glucometer to check their sugar levels at home,” said Dr Patil.Dr Reema Kashiva, an endocrinologist at Noble Hospital, said, “Due to the lockdown, people are ignoring healthy lifestyle and food choices. In addition, fear and stress due to multiple factors primarily Covid-19, economic loss, job loss, domestic violence, the stress in the family all causes for the stress levels to go up which causes the sugar levels to spike up too.”“Patients, especially senior citizens could not attend regular OPD’s and also get their regular medicines which caused the spike drastically when they came for their checkups a few months later,” said Dr Kashiva.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/lack-of-exercise-check-ups-stress-during-lockdown-resulted-in-spike-in-sugar-levels-say-pune-doctors/story-lSMrAugK377grAxOsm8MJO.html
27-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt has taken adequate steps to handle Covid-19 cases, says Delhi HC||The Delhi High Court Monday said the AAP government has taken adequate steps like increasing the number of ambulances, augmenting the capacity of helplines, ramping up testing facilities and creating plasma banks to handle the Covid-19 cases in the national capital.A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan said that in view of the steps taken by the Delhi government it was not going to further monitor the PIL initiated by the high court to assess the preparedness of the authorities here to handle the rising Covid-19 cases now and during the coming days.The bench directed the Delhi government to ensure that the official orders and directions issued by it and the court with regard to real time update of data of availability of beds and ventilators as also conducting tests be followed by the hospitals.It also directed that the ambulance services, for Covid and non-Covid patients, and the helplines should continue to operate and the nodal officers appointed by the Delhi government in its hospitals should keep in mind the difficulties of the people.With these observations and directions the court disposed of the PIL initiated by it, on the basis of a video clip of a man who had to run from pillar to post to get his mother hospitalised after she tested positive for coronavirus or Covid-19, and the another similar petition filed by a private individual.The order was passed after perusing an affidavit filed by the Delhi government, represented by its standing counsel (criminal) Rahul Mehra and additional standing counsel Anuj Aggarwal.The affidavit said the government has almost doubled the number of ambulances, augmented its helpline capacity, ramped up testing numbers and also set up two plasma banks.The affidavit said that more lines were added to its helpline numbers, the number of ambulances were increased to 602 from 334 earlier, the Delhi government procured more than 11 lakh rapid antigen test kits and has a buffer of 8.27 lakh test kits and its offering free of cost testing at all government hospitals and dispensaries.Of the 602 ambulances, 273 are for Covid patients and 294 for non-Covid, the affidavit has said.The Delhi government has also said it has capped the price of RT/PCR test at Rs 2,400, including taxes, rapid testing cost has been capped at Rs 450 and private labs have been asked to not refuse home collection of samples.It also told the court that all hospitals have been directed to update data, regarding bed availability, on the Delhi corona mobile app and their website and nodal officers “have been appointed to mitigate any difficulty faced by the public at large”.It also told the bench that two plasma banks at -- Lok Nayak Hospital and Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences -- have been set up and people who have recovered from Covid-19 have been requested to donate plasma 28 days after their recovery.It also told the bench that convalescent plasma (COPLA) therapy was being provided free of cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-has-taken-adequate-steps-to-handle-covid-19-cases-says-delhi-hc/story-X0ff5AhP6X99ear6QtILrM.html
27-07-2020||Chandigarh||94 fresh Covid-19 cases in HP, tally mounts to 2,270||As many as 94 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal, taking the tally to 2,270. Thirty-one people have tested positive for Covid-19 in Sirmaur district. The cases were reported in Mohalla Govindgarh and Nahan. Fifteen people tested positive in Solan, 16 tested positive in Kangra district, 11 in Bilaspur, 10 in Mandi, five in Shimla three in Chamba, two in Una and one person in Hamirpur district. At present there are 1,025 active cases. Of the eight people who tested positive in Mandi, one of them was a staff nurse employed in the Zonal Hospital, Mandi; while four employees of Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Hospital tested positive, confirmed chief medical officer (CMO), Mandi, Dr Devinder Sharma. A 47-year-old man, a resident of Bharmaur, in district Chamba tested positive, while a 70-year-old woman and a two-year-old girl tested positive in Bathri of Chamba. In Kangra, a 30-year-old army personnel, a resident of Paprola, Baijnath who had returned from Leh on July 21 tested positive and has been shifted to Military Hospital, Palampur. A 21-year-old army personnel, a resident of Barikhas, Palampur, also tested positive. He had returned from Bangalore on July 19 and has been shifted to the Military Hospital, Palampur. A 57-year-old woman, a resident of dehra tehsil, Kangra tested positive for Covid-19 and has been shifted to the dedicated Covid-Care Centre, Dadh. In Hamirpur district, a 74-year-old man, who is resident of Sarahkar, tested positive. He has been shifted to a dedicated Covid-Care Centre, said CMO Dr Archana Soni. Special secretary (health) Nipun Jindal said so far, 12 Covid deaths have been reported in state and 1,216 patients have recovered. Also, 15 patients have migrated out of the state. With 563 cases, Solan is the worst hit district in state, followed by Kangra with 426 cases, Hamirpur with 300 cases, Sirmaur with 273 cases, Una with 190 cases, Shimla with 148 cases, Mandi with 121 cases, Chamba with 96 cases, Bilaspur with 84 cases, Kinnaur with 41 cases, and Kullu with 24 cases. With four Covid-19 cases, Lahaul and Spiti is the least affected district. Meanwhile, after former BJP MLA Vijay Agnihotri tested positive for the novel coronavirus and was sent to a dedicated Covid- care center for treatment and isolation, another senior BJP leader and sitting MLA Narendra Thakiur has gone into self quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/11-new-covid-19-cases-in-himachal-pradesh-takes-coronavirus-count-to-2-187/story-J3H4eXq6vujTac7n4yg00I.html
27-07-2020||Mumbai||Heavy rains cause severe waterlogging, traffic jams in parts of Mumbai||Parts of Mumbai, including Dadar and Hindmata areas, faced severe waterlogging on Monday following heavy rainfall in the region. Meanwhile, heavy traffic congestion was seen in Vashi area of Navi Mumbai after a spell of rain.It has been raining intermittently since last night in Mumbai and adjoining areas, said (Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation) BMC earlier today. K S Hosalikar, Dy Director General (DDG) of Meteorology, India Met Department, Mumbai, said, “Mumbai morning rains moderate ...With intense spells now going on. It will not there for a longer time.”“Mumbai and around record moderate to heavy rains in the last 24 hours. Most of it occurred since early morning with thunder. Colaba side intensity remained high with ~ 60+ mm RF. Thane, NM side record heavy falls. Latest satellite image indicates a cloud patch near Mumbai. Reducing,” he added. The Regional Meteorological Centre of Mumbai has predicted moderate rain and thunderstorm in the city for 24 hours. There is a possibility of occasional intense spells. “Generally cloudy sky with moderate rain/thunderstorm in the city and suburbs. Possibility of occasional intense spells,” it said. The Meteorological Centre also predicted generally cloudy sky with light to moderate rain for 48 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/heavy-rains-cause-severe-waterlogging-traffic-jams-in-parts-of-mumbai/story-UrNwWlnA0lBc0eJhhqmIeP.html
27-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi riots: High Court allows two petitioners to withdraw pleas||The Delhi High Court, while hearing several petitions related to the northeast Delhi violence in February this year, on Monday allowed two petitioners to withdraw their pleas with the liberty to approach trial courts.A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan allowed petitioners Harsh Mandar and Brinda Karat, who were represented by senior lawyer Kapil Sibal and advocate Adit Pujari respectively, to withdraw their petitions.The petitioners, who withdrew their petition, had sought registration of FIRs under provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) in the northeast Delhi violence matter.The High Court also adjourned the matter for next Monday noting that some of the rejoinders and counter-affidavits were not on-record.The court, while hearing the submission in the matter, showed displeasure with one of the petitioners -- Ajay Gautam -- and said, “don’t make political speeches here in court”. Gautam while making his submissions had said that one community intentionally making attempts to destabilise the peace of the country.Earlier, the High Court had granted the last opportunity to file rejoinders and affidavits by the concerned parties on several petitions filed over the northeast Delhi violence in February this year.The Delhi Police, in its affidavit on the pleas, had submitted that the police authorities acted promptly, vigilantly, and effectively without any fear or favour as a result of which violence could be contained in few days and to a limited area.“Speeches of political leaders including Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi, Anurag Thakur, Kapil Mishra, Pravesh Verma, Waris Pathan, and others are being examined by the Delhi Police and necessary action in this regard will be taken in due course of time if it is found on the evidence that their speech had any nexus with the riots,” the affidavit said.In the affidavit, the Delhi Police said that the petitions raising questions on the investigation is nothing but a blatant and brazen misuse of the public interest litigation.Around 53 people lost their lives in the violence that erupted in northeast Delhi after clashes erupted between two opposing factions over the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-riots-high-court-allows-two-petitioners-to-withdraw-pleas/story-lp237zkOJbw4K4MhO3t1XK.html
27-07-2020||Ranchi||457 new Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand, 2 deaths||There were 457 more novel coronavirus cases in Jharkhand, taking the tally to 8,349 on Monday, while the toll rose to 85 with two more deaths, a government bulletin said. The active cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) rose to 4,560, while 3,704 people have recovered so far, the bulletin said. Two more Covid-19 patients died on Sunday, it said. The recovery rate is 44.36 per cent, while the fatality rate is 1.02 per cent, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/457-new-covid-19-cases-in-jharkhand-2-deaths/story-opxJimbE05BIDVBW7tjfmM.html
27-07-2020||Delhi||High levels of ammonia in water, supply to be affected in parts of Delhi||The Delhi Jal Board (DJB) on Monday said that due to increase in ammonia levels (pollutants) in raw water discharged from Haryana , water supply will be affected in parts of west, north, central and south Delhi including Delhi Cantonment. The high levels of ammonia have affected the production capacity of the water treatment plants at Chandrawal, Okhla and Wazirabad, as a result of which water supply will be available on low pressure, said DJB officials. “The production capacity has been affected by 25% at the plants, because of which some areas may be affected today. The ammonia levels in the raw water were recorded as 1.8 ppm (parts per million), which by ideal standards at a treatment plant must not be more than 0.9 ppm,” said a senior DJB official. DJB vice-chairperson Raghav Chaddha said, “Due to increase in pollutants (amonia levels) in raw water discharged from Haryana, the water supply will be affected in parts of West Delhi, North Delhi, Central Delhi & South Delhi. We endeavour to restore normal water supply as soon as possible. Please use water judiciously.” An advisory issued by the water utility has asked the public to make judicious use of water and reach out to the emergency control room numbers in case of requirement of water tanker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/high-levels-of-ammonia-in-water-supply-to-be-affected-in-parts-of-delhi/story-ZtCis8Q0vxdFB9gtk3gqhJ.html
27-07-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka top cop asked to file report on internal security after UN observation on IS||The Karnataka government on Sunday directed the Director General of Police Praveen Sood to submit a detailed report on the internal security following the United Nations’ observation that international terror outfit IS was active in the state.The UN report stated that Al-Qaida in the Indian subcontinent, which reportedly has between 150 and 200 members from India, Pakistan, Bangladesh and Myanmar, was reportedly planning attacks in the region.It also warned that there were ‘significant numbers’ of ISIS operatives in Karnataka and Kerala.Reacting to the UN report, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said the state government has taken a serious note of the report on the activities of IS in the state.The state government is in touch with the Centre and the neighbouring states to keep a close watch on the activities of suspicious people and their supporters.“In this context, it has been decided to strengthen the internal security of the state. The Director General of Police has been asked to submit a detailed report,” Bommai said in a release.The state is also keeping a strict vigil on all those entering Bengaluru from other states, the Minister said.He recalled that the state police had arrested several members of Al-Hind organisation in January last and Jamaat- ul-Mujahideen from Bangladesh in 2018 and 2019.He added that the National Investigation Agency is investigating the case of JMB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-top-cop-asked-to-file-report-on-internal-security-after-un-observation-on-is/story-yw4OvmBky2ZeaQFVyy2GDK.html
27-07-2020||Delhi||Over 1,500 Covid-19 beds available in 4 govt hospitals in Delhi: Centre||The Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Monday there are more than 1,500 beds available for patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in four government hospitals in Delhi amid a decline in the number of infections in the national capital in the last one month.“Visible results of the Union Govt’s effective intervention in managing #COVID19 situation in Delhi are apparent in number of COVID beds available in the 3 Central Govt hospitals and #AIIMS, New Delhi,” the Union health ministry tweeted.Also read: 18 newborns in Delhi tested positive for Covid-19 since MarchThe ministry said there are 404 beds against a total of 529 beds vacant in Safdarjung Hospital, Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital and Lady Hardinge Medical College.  #IndiaFightsCoronaIn Dr. RML, Safdarjung and LHMC hospitals, against a total of 529 COVID beds, 404 COVID beds are vacant today morning at 7 am.@SJHDELHI @RMLDelhi @LHMCDelhiIt also said 1,283 beds against 1,515 beds were vacant at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). “Against a total number of 1,515 COVID beds in AIIMS, New Delhi, 1,283 beds are vacant today at 7 am,” it said.According to the health ministry’s dashboard, Delhi registered 130,606 cases and nearly 3,900 deaths due to Sars-Cov-2, which causes the coronavirus disease.Also read: Delhi govt data shows Covid-19 deaths down 44% from JuneThe number of Covid-19 cases in the national capital started to fall from nearly 4,000 cases in the third week of June to now less than 2,000 cases being logged daily. The active cases mounted to 11,904 whereas 114,875 people have recovered so far from the infection.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday tweeted that the bed occupancy in the national capital came down sharply from June 23 to July 26. He had earlier said that Delhi stands in the eighth spot in the country in terms of active cases.(with inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/over-1-500-covid-19-beds-available-in-4-govt-hospitals-in-delhi-centre/story-b8cMxgZltKTNhrcf1ryTqM.html
27-07-2020||Bangalore||Kumaraswamy slams BJP, Congress over alleged Covid-19 equipment purchase ‘irregularities’||Former Karnataka Chief Minister HD Kumaraswamy said that when Covid-19 has made life and livelihoods difficult, it is unfortunate that charges have been levelled of irregularities in the procurement of Covid-19 equipment.“The Congress which has levelled charges against the ruling BJP has not so far filed a complaint against any investigating agency. Instead, the Congress has limited itself to getting publicity. On the other hand, the ruling BJP instead of coming clean by ordering a probe into the main charges is indirectly admitting the scam,” Kumaraswamy said on Sunday.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“By washing dirty linen in public, both the Congress and the BJP are playing a cruel joke on people instead of protecting their lives,” he said.Hitting out at the BJP, he asked, “Why is it that the BJP is not ordering an investigation into the Rs 2,000 crore Covid 19 corruption charges levelled against the government by the Congress? Why is the government keeping quiet on the corruption charges?”He said, “Is this the leadership provided by Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa? There could be political pressure on seeking resignation of his Ministers. But why has no action been initiated against any officers? Is there any effort to destroy the evidence by retaining officers in their existing postings?” “Hunger for publicity is evident when we look at the press conference by five Ministers at a time,” he said.The government has countered the charges of the Congress but backtracked on ordering an investigation, he said.“Would this not give rise to suspicion that the government is involved in the scam?” he asked.He also asked why Congress leaders have not filed a complaint before any investigating agency despite “possessing documents to prove the charges”.“Are the Congress leaders trying to get publicity or are they concerned about the welfare of the people? The Congress Legislative Party leader is seeking an account (Lekka Kodi) while the BJP president is seeking answers (Uttara Kodi). Is it enough to give such questions and answers?”Is there a concrete legal plan to deal with the irregularities? he asked.“Looking at the way the Congress leaders have addressed media conferences and taken to social media campaigns, it appears that they are trying to get publicity,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/kumaraswamy-slams-bjp-congress-over-alleged-covid-19-equipment-purchase-irregularities/story-E3x35kNoGiHOje2JRDGSNN.html
27-07-2020||Chandigarh||Three teenagers crushed to death by speeding car in Rohtak||Three teenagers were crushed to death by a speeding car on the Rohtak-Hisar road on the outskirts of Bhali village here on Monday morning, police said. The dead were identified as Parmod Kumar,18, Saurabh and Parveen, both aged 15. The three belonged to Bhali village. Village sarpanch Balraj Singh told the police that the incident took place when the youngsters went for running and were hit by the speeding car. They died on the spot. The car driver fled the spot after the mishap. Angry villagers blocked the Hisar-Rohtak highway, demanding the arrest of the car driver. Police reached the spot and began investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-teenagers-crushed-to-death-by-speeding-car-in-rohtak/story-B7lxIrjk3KGV9EWLokDnqI.html
27-07-2020||Delhi||Water supply to be hit in parts of Delhi, govt advises people to use water judiciously||Water supply in several parts of Delhi will be affected due to an increase in pollutants in raw water discharged from Haryana, Delhi Jal Board (DJB) said on Monday. Parts of west, north, central and south Delhi are among the areas where the supply will be hit due to increased levels of ammonia in raw water, according to DJB. The board has requested citizens to use water judiciously and assured it will restore normal supply as soon as possible. “URGENT : Due to increase of pollution in raw water the water supply is affected in Part of West Delhi, North Delhi, Central Delhi, South Delhi, including Delhi Cantt. and New Delhi Municipal Council areas.Plz use water judiciously till the supply is normal,” the water board tweeted. Aam Aadmi Party MLA Raghav Chadha, who is the board’s vice-chairperson, also shared a similar tweet.  URGENT : Due to increase of pollution in raw water the water supply is affected in Part of West Delhi, North Delhi, Central Delhi, South Delhi, including Delhi Cantt. and New Delhi Municipal Council areas.Plz use water judiciously till the supply is normal 🙏 pic.twitter.com/3ehsYIVJQ7The Delhi Jal Board also shared the contact details of suppliers of water tankers who can be approached in case of emergencies. Here is a list of phone numbers to avail water tankers in respective areas:Central Control Room 1916, 23527679, 23634469 Chandrawal WW No.02 23810930 Greater Kailash 29234746, 29234747 Idgah 23537397, 23677129 Punjabi Bagh 25223658 Burari 27619244, 27617609 Kewal Park 27677877, 27681578 IP Station 23370911, 23378761 RK Puram 26193218 Last week, toxic foam was seen floating in the Yamuna at the Okhla barrage following which the Delhi Jal Board on Friday curtailed supply at Wazirabad, Chandrawal and Okhla water treatment plants due to high levels of pollutants in the river. The National Green Tribunal (NGT)-appointed Yamuna Monitoring Committee (YMC) has sought a report from the Central Pollution Control Board, Delhi Pollution Control Committee and Industries Commissioner about the reasons behind “sudden froth” in the river. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/water-supply-to-be-hit-in-parts-of-delhi-govt-advises-people-to-use-water-judiciously/story-9Rr87fXfc7iZO8g9lXMuxM.html
27-07-2020||Lucknow||Rain, thundershowers likely over parts of Uttar Pradesh today||Rain, thundershowers and lightning are likely to occur today at isolated places in parts of Uttar Pradesh during next three hours, said the Meteorological Centre, Lucknow.Rain, thundershowers and lightning are very likely to occur over Bulandshahr, Sambhal, Sant Kabir Nagar, Mahrajganj, Lakhimpur Kheri districts and adjoining areas on Monday.“Rain/thundershowers and lightning are very likely to occur today during next three hours (valid up to 9:30 am) at isolated places over Bulandshahr, Sambhal, Sant Kabir Nagar, Mahrajganj, Lakhimpur Kheri districts and adjoining areas,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/rain-thundershowers-likely-over-parts-of-uttar-pradesh-today/story-BXKxfPFehT88MOK2gMYaOO.html
27-07-2020||Lucknow||UP man arrested for stealing over Rs 6 lakh from employer to repay loan||A 29-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly fleeing to his native place in Uttar Pradesh with over Rs six lakh cash which his employer had given him to deposit in a bank, police said on Sunday.Rinku was arrested from his native Padhera village, in Uttar Pradesh’s Etah district, they said.The owner of a private firm had complained to police on July 18 that he had given Rs 6,62,000 in cash to his staff Rinku to deposit it in a bank. Rinku left on a motorcycle and didn’t return nor did he deposit the cash in the bank, police said.During investigation, the mobile number of the accused was put on surveillance and was traced to Padhera village from where he was arrested on Saturday, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Southeast) RP Meena said. Rs 3,80,000 cash was recovered from him, he said.The accused revealed that his family had mortgaged their land for a loan to marry off his younger sister and he stole Rs 6 lakh amount from his employer to clear the debt, the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-man-arrested-for-stealing-over-rs-6-lakh-from-employer-to-repay-loan/story-72MhU8GJgljiawrDCAcgtN.html
27-07-2020||Chandigarh||Covid: Punjab govt to provide plasma to private hospitals at Rs 20,000 per unit||The Punjab government on Sunday decided to provide plasma to private hospitals from its plasma bank at a cost of Rs 20,000 per unit.“Continuing the campaign being carried out to combat Covid-19 under ‘Mission Fateh’, the Punjab government has decided today to provide plasma to private hospitals from government’s plasma bank at a reasonable cost,” read an official statement.A spokesperson of the Department of Medical Education and Research said that since the establishment of government’s plasma bank, private hospitals treating Covid-19 patients were demanding plasma. Hence, the state government has decided to provide plasma to these private hospitals at a cost of Rs 20,000 per unit.The spokesperson clarified that the plasma would be made available free of cost to the patients undergoing treatment in state government hospitals.The first plasma bank of Punjab was inaugurated on July 21 by OP Soni, Minister for Medical Education and Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-punjab-govt-to-provide-plasma-to-private-hospitals-at-rs-20-000-per-unit/story-jS9Ily7TJ2uxnST5lj2wdP.html
27-07-2020||Lucknow||Lucknow Police reunite 8-year-old girl with family||An eight-year-old specially-abled girl, who had gone missing on Sunday, was reunited with family, police said.The minor went missing from the Bazarkhala police station area at 7 am.According to the police, 25 Polygon teams and more than one dozen PRV vehicles were deployed to find out the child.Speaking to ANI, Sarvsreshtha Tripathi, DCP West said, “Lucknow Police found the eight-year-old specially-abled girl within nine hours.”“25 Polygon teams and more than one dozen PRV vehicles were deployed. The girl was located at 3 am from the outer premises of the Medical College with the help of CCTVs and locals,” Tripathi added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lucknow-police-reunite-8-year-old-girl-with-family/story-Nxu6VXrJB9pKgl3tNQsagN.html
27-07-2020||Patna||4 killed, 1 injured in road accident in Bihar’s Begusarai district||Four persons were killed and one was injured after the car carrying them hit a road divider and overturned, and a truck rammed into it in Begusarai district of Bihar, a police officer said on Sunday.The police had earlier said that five people were killed in the accident.The mishap took place on National Highway-31 near Lakho village on Saturday evening, he said.Chief Minister Nitish Kumar expressed his grief over the death of four persons in a road accident in Begusarai district and announced payment of Rs 4 lakh as ex-gratia to each of the deceased’s family, an official release said. Besides, Kumar also prayed for the speedy recovery of the person who received injuries in the incident, the release said, adding that the CM prayed to the almighty to give strength and courage to the bereaved family members to bear the loss of their near and dear ones.The driver had apparently lost control of the car and hit the road divider. The vehicle overturned and then the truck rammed into it, Lakho police outpost officer-in-charge Santosh Kumar Sharma said.Four occupants of the car died on the spot, while one person was seriously injured and is being treated at a hospital in Begusarai, Sharma said.The car was on its way to Azadnagar-Kashimpur village from Begusarai town, he said.The deceased were identified as Chinku Kumar Rai (24), Pankaj Rai (34), Santosh Rai (35) and Bambam Mahto (24), Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/4-killed-1-injured-in-road-accident-in-bihar-s-begusarai-district/story-6qnSU8OmDhse5E3ZkEBXyH.html
27-07-2020||Delhi||Woman, infant killed in wall collapse in southwest Delhi||A woman and her seven-month-old son died after a wall of an adjacent house collapsed on their shanty in southwest Delhi’s Palam Vihar area, police said on Sunday.The incident took place on Wednesday noon. The deceased, Kari Sardar (25) and her son Mahabur, hailed from West Bengal, they said.  The woman, along with her baby, husband and sister were inside their shanty when it started raining heavily, police said.The water started seeping in through the walls and suddenly, a wall of an adjacent house collapsed on their shanty and the woman, her son and sister got trapped under it, they said.Later, with the help of neighbours, her husband Sabijudeen, who works as a waste picker, pulled them out from the debris.Both the woman and her son were found unconscious, while her sister suffered minor injuries. They were all taken to a nearby hospital, where the mother and son duo was declared brought dead, police said.On the complaint of her husband, an FIR was registered under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the matter was being investigated, a senior police officer said.In his complaint, he alleged that the house adjacent to their shanty was not stable and he had informed the landlord about the same, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/woman-infant-killed-in-wall-collapse-in-southwest-delhi/story-gtZnaxEyLohpsCqHql60XM.html
27-07-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Jama Masjid, these days||The gigantic courtyard is empty. So empty that even the customary pigeons are not there — remember how they would always be seen flying from the courtyard to the central dome, and back?The iconic Jama Masjid monument in Old Delhi is feeling absolutely surreal these days. Like most monuments, and most places of worship, it was closed for months due to the coronavirus. The pandemic is still raging on but the Mughal-era mosque has re-opened. On this late morning, it is so quiet here that you could hear your own breathing.Tomorrow’s historians might look back upon these times as a defining moment that altered the course of the world. But the 17th century Jama Masjid has withstood more than one transformative event: the 1857 uprising, when the victorious British turned it into a camp for soldiers, as well as the Partition in 1947, when freedom fighter Maulana Abul Kalam Azad made a memorable speech against it on the steps of the great mosque. The pandemic too is now leaving its mark in the red sandstone monument. At first glance, the prayer hall looks the same, its giant chandelier as imposing. But then you notice alternating red and green marks on the tiled floor, indicating the percepts of physical distancing the devotees have to follow. The sight of these symbols — as if checked right and wrong by a teacher on an exam sheet — imprinted in such a historic place reflects how deeply the pandemic has embedded itself into the texture of our material world.At this moment only two people are inside the prayer hall, sitting at a distance.The vast courtyard has a vazu pool at the center where worshippers would wash themselves before prayer. It is dry. Suddenly a woman appears in a black burqa and stands at the other end of the pool. She seems to be sobbing, her body shaking. She recollects herself after a few minutes and walks towards the east-facing gateway.In the courtyard outside, monsoon sky is pressing in like an unexpected guest in a family gathering. Indeed, the small puffs of dark clouds floating above seem so close to the mosque’s upper limits that they feel like a ghostly extension of its architectural elements.Perhaps the most eye-catching, if not the most attractive, object here is a red plastic bin placed at the center of the courtyard. It’s looking so out of place in this edifice of immaculate aesthetics that one can’t help but keep turning to look at it, much the way one’s tongue inadvertently keep going back to feel the aching tooth.The long balcony beside the mosque’s gate no. 1 is usually always teeming with people. Today it is crowded —with three men. One of them is sleeping. Now a fourth man in white kurta pajama enters the mosque and purposefully heads towards this balcony. He sits with his back against the stone railing and stays still, looking like a figure in a Mughal miniature.Further ahead is the ticket booth to the mosque’s tower. The sign board is in a series of foreign languages. The four instructions to the tower’s visitors are only in English though; the last one says that “unaccompanied woman and child are not allowed to visit the tower.” (The tower hasn’t opened to visitors yet).Outside the gate 1, the staircase overlooking the chaotic Matia Mahal Bazar would always be packed with locals, sightseers, hawkers, beggars, and cats. It is empty.Hopefully these difficult days too will pass over, and Jama Masjid, like all timeless monuments, will once again transcend its present and regain its former life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-jama-masjid-these-days/story-jobLR6eorAdOT2opt2m3uI.html
27-07-2020||City||COVAXIN HUMAN TRIALS AT PGIMS: Wanted to play my part in saving lives, says volunteer||For this 26-year-old from Rohtak, it was the opportunity to play a part in potentially saving lives that drove him to volunteer for the human trials of Covaxin, the vaccine that India is currently pinning its hopes on amid the Covid-19 outbreak. Having received the first dose (0.5ml) of the vaccine at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak, on July 17, he is waiting for the second dose to be administered on July 31. “I had once appeared for the Army recruitment drive but couldn’t pass it but this is my chance to do my bit in saving lives, the way the men on the border do. Doctors say that if this vaccine passes the test and we (volunteers) don’t develop any adverse effects, it could save crores of lives,” he says. The sense of service comes to him from his family, he says. “I belong to a family of blood donors and my entire family is into social service. We organise blood donation camps, eye donation camps etc.” Ask him how he found out about the trials, he says, “I read in a newspaper that PGIMS was looking for volunteers for human trials. After discussing it with my father, I called PGIMS and appeared for the tests on July 14 and was selected for the trial.” He adds that he is fit and has so far not developed any side effects. He adds that he was able to travel to Madhya Pradesh just two days after the trial and is now back to normal routine. The 26-year-old adds that a team of doctors from PGIMS calls him about three to four times a day to check up on his health. “I am eagerly waiting for July 31 when I will get the second dose of the vaccine, which is very important for the trial,” he adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covaxin-human-trials-at-pgims-wanted-to-play-my-part-in-saving-lives-says-volunteer/story-nRYq7GxmM4naaKZl8zLyuM.html
27-07-2020||City||Over 43,000 students switched over to govt schools in Haryana during pandemic||Haryana has witnessed a reverse trend in school enrolment amid Covid-19 pandemic as students from private schools are switching over to government ones. As many as 43,293 private school students have moved to government schools during the 2020-21 academic session across the state, revealed the figures provided by the Haryana school education department.A total of 3,434 private school students have shifted to government institutions in Hisar, 2,876 in Karnal, 2,604 in Fatehabad, 2,502 in Sonepat, 2,453 in Gurugram, 2,369 in Sirsa, 2,301 in Panipat, 2,299 in Yamunanagar, 2,249 in Kaithal, 2,132 in Jind, 2,122 in Rewari, 2,074 in Faridabad, 1,950 in Bhiwani, 1,840 in Kurukshetra, 1,655 in Ambala, 1,555 in Rohtak, 1,502 in Jhajjar, 1,400 in Panchkula, 1,290 in Palwal, 1,206 in Mahendergarh, 929 in Nuh and 546 in Charkhi Dadri.An official, who wished not to be named, said more than 87,000 students, who had last year studied in private schools, have applied for admission in government schools this year.“Admission of these students will be confirmed on our website after they deposit their school leaving certificates. Most of the private schools are not issuing these certificates over fee issues. 21.49 lakh students have been enrolled in government schools against last year’s 20.97 lakh,” the official added.On private schools not issuing transfer certificates and other documents to students, the official said a school has no authority to deny documents to a student when he/she wants to move to another school. “If any legitimate claim is pending, the school has to move court for realising the same, but the future of children cannot be affected,” he added.Haryana elementary education department director Pradeep Dagar said students were shifting to government schools from private ones due to improvement in education standards and infrastructure, apart from Covid-19 crisis.“Income of people has declined during the pandemic and they have realised that good education can be achieved in government schools too. This year, both the toppers in Haryana board’s Class 12 exams are from government schools. We have started online classes on Edusat and local cable TV channels free of cost. Class-12 board results show that government schools have given a tough competition to private ones as the difference in their pass percentage was less than 1.5%,” Dagar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/over-43-000-students-switched-over-to-govt-schools-in-haryana-during-pandemic/story-HPXSBoKHf32yRnpluhI2qL.html
27-07-2020||City||Punjab’s Covid death toll crosses 300-mark||Amritsar/Patiala/Ludhiana/Bathinda/SangrurThe death toll due to Covid-19 in Punjab rose to 306 on Sunday with a record 15 fatalities, while the highest single-day spike of 534 fresh cases pushed the infection tally to 13,218, according to the media bulletin released by the state government. Four Covid-19 patients—three from Gurdaspur district and one from Amritsar—died at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Amritsar, on Sunday, health officials said. Besides, Amritsar district reported 42 fresh cases. Also on Sunday, 13 people from Tarn Taran contracted the infection. Nineteen Border Security Force (BSF) personnel among 131 persons tested positive for Covid-19 in the Doaba region comprising of four districts including Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar. In Jalandhar, 79 persons tested positive of the novel coronavirus. In Hoshiarpur, 42 people including, 19 BSF personnel and six bank employees, contracted the infection. Similarly, four persons, including a pregnant woman contracted virus in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar district while six persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Kapurthala district. Patiala reported 84 fresh cases. Of these, 37 are from Patiala city, 16 from Rajpura, nine from Nabha, four from Samana, three from Patran and 15 from different villages across the district.In Bathinda, 60 people contracted the infection. Deputy commissioner B Srinivasan said 59 patients were migrant workers who had come to Bathinda recently. Only one patent is the Bathinda resident. Besides, 24 persons tested positive in Fazilka. As per the information, three are the residents of Ferozepur and 20 belong to Fazilka district.One patient who was tested at a private hospital in Bathinda is a resident of Fazilka. Six cases each were reported from Mansa, Moga and Ferozepur.Two persons died while 127 tested positive in Ludhiana and 17 in Sangrur.Mohali deputy inspector general (DIG) of police, prisons, Satinder Singh and station house officer (SHO) Kharar, Bhagwant Singh are among 25 people who tested positive for Covid-19 in Mohali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-s-covid-death-toll-crosses-300-mark/story-RV9FWR8b5jr87UMMuPpnnN.html
27-07-2020||Dehradun||Pillars erected by Nepalese citizens in no-man’s land at India-Nepal border not yet removed||Pillars erected by Nepalese men for fencing a no-man’s land at the India-Nepal border have not been removed despite assurances by Nepal authorities to their Indian counterparts, officials said on Sunday. Some Nepalese people erected concrete and wooden pillars on Wednesday on the no-man’s land and in about 10 metres of the area into the Indian side near Tanakpur town in Uttarakhand’s Champawat district, the officials said. Following the development, Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) officials deployed at the border held a meeting with Nepal’s Armed Police Force (APF) after asking the Nepalese locals to remove the pillars. During the meeting, APF officials had assured the SSB officials that the pillars would be removed soon. “ APF officials had assured us that the pillars would soon be removed but nothing has happened so far. In fact, the locals have now put fencing on the pillars erected by them,” said an SSB officer on the condition of anonymity. “The locals had erected 23 pillars in the area in India’s territory. After erecting the fencing, they have now planted some saplings there to further consolidate their claim on the disputed area.” SSB officials suspect a ‘bigger conspiracy’ behind the act of Nepalese locals. They said patrolling has been stepped up in the area. “This is certainly done with the backing of their administration and police. Without that, they will never dare carry out such an act. We have also got inputs that the Nepalese locals got funds from their administration for the fencing. This was also corroborated by a Nepalese local present on Thursday who was involved in erecting the pillars,” the SSB officer said. Another local administration official too corroborated the SSB official’s claim. “Nepalese authorities seem not to be serious about removing the encroachment. This was also evident from the fact that on Thursday during the heated argument with the Nepalese locals, they were putting fencing in front of APF personnel,” the official said. “Many of the Nepalese locals were also in an inebriated condition and abusing Indian officials during the meeting while raising anti-India slogans before the APF personnel. This shows that the APF and Nepal local administration are hands in glove with them,” said the official. He also informed that the dispute over the no-man’s land is prevailing because there is no clear demarcation of the India-Nepal border. “The demarcation would be done after a joint survey of the border by the Survey of India (SoI) and Survey of Nepal (SoN). A team of SoI had even come here last year for the survey and stayed for about two months. But the survey was not done because SoN officials didn’t show any interest and kept on dilly-dallying on the matter for some reason or the other. There seems to be a lack of sincerity on the part of SoN on completing the survey work of the border,” he said. Meanwhile, there were some media reports that the ongoing border tension escalated after some Nepalese locals hurled stones at a patrolling team of SSB near the border. However, the SSB officers denied any such incident. RK Tripathi, SSB commandant, said, “No such incident has happened at the border. The reports are absolutely rubbish.” “Talks are already on between the two sides on the removal of the encroachment which we hope will soon be removed as per the assurances of Nepalese authorities,” he said. Meanwhile district magistrate(DM) of Champawat Surendra Narayan Pandey registered a ‘strong’ protest on the issue before chief district officer (equivalent to DM) of Nepal’s Kanchanpur district which adjoins Champawat across the border. He also apprised the Indian Embassy in Nepal of the issue.“Taking up the matter I wrote a letter to Kanchanpur’s CDO and spoke to him over phone to register a strong protest on the act by Nepalese people on Saturday. I have asked him to remove the encroachments from the disputed area and follow the international border protocol,” said Pandey.He informed that following his protest, the Kanchanpur CDO and superintendent of police on Sunday visited the disputed area on their side. “While speaking to the CDO, I also requested him for a meeting at district administration level on which he said that he would reply on Monday after Sunday’s visit. I have also apprised our Embassy officials in Nepal about the issue on July 24 and the Uttarakhand state government to take up the matter with the Home Ministry,” said Pandey. He said that he has also urged his Nepalese counterpart to initiate a survey process of the border and restore the missing border pillar number 811/3 due to which the ‘demarcation of the border is not done yet.’“This issue has to be resolved at administration level because if it is left to the public then it may turn into an ugly episode in coming days,” said Pandey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/pillars-erected-by-nepalese-citizens-in-no-man-s-land-at-india-nepal-border-not-yet-removed/story-3FiAr14141HB3Ina3olK1K.html
27-07-2020||Delhi||First batch of 11 Afghan Sikhs land in Delhi||The first batch of 11 members of the minuscule Sikh community from Afghanistan, who have been facing persecution at the hands of Pakistan-backed Taliban, landed in New Delhi on Sunday in a special flight facilitated by the Government of India.The group has been granted short-term visas by the Indian embassy in Kabul. Among other repatriates includes 60-year-old Delhi-based Sikh Nidan Singh Sachdeva and 16-year-old Sunmeet Kaur, who were kidnapped by terrorists there and was later rescued by security agencies.Speaking to ANI, Sachdeva said: “I am more than thankful to the Government of India for bringing us here. I have no words to describe my feelings. An atmosphere of fear prevails in Afghanistan.”The repatriation process was immediately initiated by the Indian Government after perturbing reports of rampant security threats, human rights violations, and decimated on the minority communities surfaced.“We want peace and earn a livelihood. My mother and brother are still there. I request the government to bring them as well. The situation is bad there. All of us are being pressurised by them for conversions,” said Balender Singh.Approximately 700 Hindu and Sikhs Afghan Nationals have registered with the embassy of India in Kabul and are seeking an immediate return to India.India is facilitating the entire process of returning of Afghan Hindu and Sikh community members facing security threats in Afghanistan and extended a helping hand despite the ongoing pandemic.They will stay at the guest house of Rakab Ganj Gurdwara looked after the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara management committee. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/first-batch-of-11-afghan-sikhs-land-in-delhi/story-XakuzuzezTUZCagOawC1XK.html
27-07-2020||City||Eight Panipat healthcare facilities found flouting biomedical waste norms||Eight hospitals in Panipat, including the district Red Cross Society’s healthcare facility and ESI’s dispensary, were found flouting Bio-Medical Waste (Management and Handling) Rules. Taking a serious note of the violation, Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) has issued notices to these hospitals under Section 5 of the Environment (Protection) Act.These facilities did not even apply for authorisation under the BMW Rules, officials said. As per the regional officer of HSPCB, the board has directed them to immediately apply for the authorisation else action will be initiated as per the Environment (Protection) Act.Interestingly, HSPCB had earlier this year issued notices to 35 hospitals and nursing homes in Panipat for not obtaining valid authorisation since May 2019, but the managements of these hospitals did not take the warning seriously. Officials monitoring the implementation of the BMW Rules said many healthcare facilities were yet to obtain authorisation due to lack of awareness on the subject. Authorisation is an online process requiring minimal documentation without any fees.HSPCB member secretary S Narayanan said, “They (healthcare facilities) have to strictly comply with the norms as per the law. If they don’t obtain authorisation, they will face closure.”“It’s clear that no relaxation will be given to any hospital and all such facilities will have to strictly follow the directions for managing waste. Regular inspections are being conducted by HSPCB teams as per our policy and complaints we receive,” he added. The state pollution control board has conducted several workshops and camps on both district and state level in coordination with the health department and Indian Medical Association (IMA), but it was found that some healthcare facilities were not complying with the norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/eight-panipat-healthcare-facilities-found-flouting-biomedical-waste-norms/story-33ZtanPXY36mejMk71BrvJ.html
27-07-2020||City||Plasma therapies successful but finding donors still a challenge in Punjab||Though plasma therapy for Covid-19 treatment has so far remained successful in Punjab, the authorities are still struggling to find donors.Under this promising yet unproven treatment called convalescent plasma therapy, the antibody-rich blood plasma of recovered patients is preserved for transfusion into critical patients.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had in June, allowed Government Medical College (GMC) in Amritsar, Faridkot and Patiala, to treat Covid-19 patients with plasma therapy. Soon after the nod, as many as four critically ill Covid-19 patients at GMC Amritsar and two at GMC Faridkot were given plasma therapy and all of them successfully recovered from the disease. But despite the 100% results, not many recovered patients have come forward to donate plasma for critical patients. As per the state’s Covid-19 bulletin on July 24, a total of 12,216 people in Punjab have tested positive for the virus, out of which 8,096 have already recovered.GMC Amritsar’s nodal officer for plasma therapy, Dr Avtar Singh Dhanju, said, “Despite our best efforts, we could persuade only four donors to give plasma for the treatment of others. The donated plasma was given to four patients and the results were 100% successful. We have a list of other eligible donors and their tests are being done and soon we will treat more patients through this.”GMC Faridkot principal Dr Deepak Bhatti, said, “We don’t have many plasma donors in Faridkot as people fear that the donation might make them weak. We could get only two donors so far and two patients benefitted from this. We are calling donors regularly and hopefully we will get more donors soon.”“Searching for a plasma donor is a rigid process as it is not possible to harvest plasma from patients while they are undergoing treatment. It has to be done about two weeks after recovery, at which stage people are reluctant to come back to hospitals. Also only people above the age of 18 can donate plasma and only those women, who have not given birth to babies, can be donors. Also, ICMR has now made antibody tests of donors compulsory and not many donors then remain eligible. Also, the donors are tested for other fatal diseases, such as HIV, before making donations. ICMR stipulates that plasma of only those who had been critically-ill before recovering can be used,” said GMC Patiala principal Dr Harjinder Singh.He added, “We got 15 plasma donors and only six of them became eligible for the donation. Arrangements are being made to give plasma to the first patient in GMC Patiala.”State medical research and education minister, OP Soni, said, “After GMC Patiala, nod has been given to GMC Amritsar and GMC Faridkot to establish plasma banks. We have also roped in hospital counsellors to persuade recovered patients for donations as they can help other critical patients in their recovery.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/plasma-therapies-successful-but-finding-donors-still-a-challenge-in-punjab/story-74E14kobNErzp9jrV0mTbK.html
27-07-2020||City||Mann Ki Baat:Panipat Class-12 topper tells PM she wants to be a doc||A telephone call from Prime Minister Narender Modi came as a big surprise to Panipat’s Kritika Nandal, who scored 96% marks in CBSE’s Class 12 exams this year. In the three-minute conversation which was aired on Mann Ki Baat programme on Sunday, the Prime Minister (PM) congratulated Kritika on her performance and asked about her aim, source of inspiration and success mantra.When Kritika told PM Modi that she wanted to become a doctor, he briefed her about the challenges in life of a doctor, especially in the prevailing situation. Kritika, however, said she could not share her ‘Mann Ki Baat’ with the PM during their conversation. “I could not tell him about the financial problems we are facing. I want to become a doctor, but it seems very challenging for my widow mother as we have limited source of income.”Kritika’s father Vinod had died of brain haemorrhage 18 months ago and now, her mother Saroj is struggling to fulfil the dreams of her two children. Kritika is currently preparing for NEET, which has been postponed to September. “After losing my father, I decided to become a doctor without even giving a thought to our financial condition,” she added.KRITIKA’S MOTHER SEEKS MORE SUPPORT FOR GIRLS“My daughter wants to become a doctor and I am working hard to fulfil her dreams, but there is a very tough journey ahead,” said Saroj, who draws widow pension of ₹2,250 per month and stitches clothes for additional income. She said Kritika’s school played a major role in her success as the management did not charge any fees and even provided free bus facility to her daughter. “We want the government to extend more support to girls because they have potential,” Saroj added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mann-ki-baat-panipat-class-12-topper-tells-pm-she-wants-to-be-a-doc/story-9iLkuNRHtVFPTjUn0kvgzO.html
27-07-2020||City||Battle for Baroda:Social distancing go for toss during ‘canvassing’||A surge in Covid-19 cases has not dissuaded political leaders in Haryana from flouting social distancing norms.During their visit to several villages in Baroda constituency on Sunday, Congress leader Deepender Hooda, Jannayak Janata party (JJP’s) Digvijay Chautala and his cousin Arjun Chautala of INLD flouted Covid norms as they did not cover their faces with masks while interacting with people and their supporters had gathered in large numbers.Political leaders have started canvassing for their parties for the upcoming Baroda assembly byelection. Baroda assembly seat in Sonepat district fell vacant in April following the demise of sitting Congress legislator Sri Krishan Hooda. No poll date has been announced as yet.DEEPENDER ACCUSES BJP-JJP OF TAPPING PHONES OF VILLAGE REPRESENTATIVESNewly inducted Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda of the Congress party on Sunday accused the BJP-JJP government of illegally tapping phones of sarpanches, panches of the Baroda assembly.“The BJP-JJP cannot win the Baroda byelection by misusing the government machinery. The people of our area (Deshwali) have their own pride and they cannot bend before the government. The BJP government did not build a single school in this constituency and chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has never visited the Baroda constituency after assuming office in 2014 except during elections. The BJP will try to divide people on the basis of caste in the elections but all the communities are united to teach a lesson to this arrogant government,” he said.INLD leader Arjun Chautala has started ‘Khaat Yatra’ on Sunday and he will visit eight villages every day in Baroda assembly to canvass for his party.Arjun said that this constituency has remained a stronghold of their party and people will elect their candidate as they have strong bonds with his family.Digvijay Chautala said that the BJP-JJP nominee will win this seat and people are waiting to teach a lesson to Hooda family in the upcoming election as “they did nothing for them except, grabbing their votes”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/battle-for-baroda-social-distancing-go-for-toss-during-canvassing/story-xAjPyxLRCpgZCiyA4ZxcXM.html
27-07-2020||City||No designated crematorium for Covid casualties: Ludhiana DC||Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Sunday clarified that no particular crematorium had been designated specifically for the cremation of Covid-19 patients in Ludhiana.Sharma added that family members could cremate bodies of their loved ones at any cremation ground they deemed fit as per their own religious beliefs.In a press statement issued here on Sunday, Sharma clarified that as per protocol, all precautionary measures had to be taken while cremating the bodies of Covid patients. He also clarified that there was no mandatory requirement to use either an LPG fuelled or an electric crematorium, and fuel wood can also be used.Sharma further said no waiting list for cremation of bodies of Covid patients was issued by either the district administration or health department. As per law, no cremation ground can refuse to conduct a cremation.Sharma assured that the situation was under control and people should not panic. He said for the welfare of residents and to ensure better coordination between district administration and private hospitals, a dedicated portal had been developed through which real-time status of vacant beds in each hospital was being monitored so that if a particular hospital did not have vacant beds, the patients could be shifted to another nearby hospital.Sharma assured the residents that now, no hospital will be able to conceal information regarding the actual status of vacant beds. He said direct access of this portal was with the deputy commissioner, the police commissioner and the additional deputy commission (development).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-designated-crematorium-for-covid-casualties-ludhiana-dc/story-vFI0sXDk5HdwylVdx2JGiN.html
27-07-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana logs 3 deaths, 794 fresh infections||Haryana recorded 794 new Covid-19 infections on Sunday, taking the state’s tally to 31,332, a health bulletin said. One patient each succumbed to the disease in Panchkula, Kurukshetra and Hisar and the death toll rose to 392. According to the health bulletin, 730 patients recovered on Sunday, pushing the number of those cured to 24,384. There were 6,556 active cases till Sunday evening in Haryana, which recorded the recovery rate at 77.82%. Faridabad reported the highest number of cases (219), followed by Gurugram (121), Rewari (81), Panipat (47), Karnal (44), Rohtak (39), Ambala (32), Kurukshetra (28), Yamunanagar (25), Sonepat (24), Palwal and Panchkula (19 each), Fatehabad and Hisar (17 each), Mahendergarh (16), Jhajjar (11), Jind (10), Nuh (7), Kaithal and Bhiwani (6 each), Charkhi Dadri (5) and Sirsa (1). Until Sunday, Haryana had sent 5.49 lakh samples for testing, 2.64 lakh of which were collected in last 26 days. On an average, Haryana has been testing 10,971 people per day since the July beginning. On June 30, the state had 14,548 Covid-19 positive cases, and the number rose to 31,332 by July 26. Haryana has seen 18,784 infections in 26 days against 14,548 cases recorded in about four months. Health department officials linked the rise in new cases to manyfold increase in testing. Also, the death toll on June 30 was 236 and this month alone, 156 people have lost their battle with the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-logs-3-deaths-794-fresh-infections/story-FqFsQF52OOJr6GC5MpDGtK.html
27-07-2020||City||Ludhiana needs better facilities for critical Covid patients: MP Bittu||Two days after a patient referred from DMCH died at the civil hospital, member of Parliament (MP) Ravneet Singh Bittu said he will urge the chief minister to augment the medical facilities in Ludhiana for serious Covid-19 patients.During his visit to the civil hospital on Sunday, he checked the facilities being provided to patients and thanked the doctors and paramedical staff for serving courageously amid the pandemic. Expressing regret over the death of the 49-year-old patient on Friday, Bittu said Ludhiana had turned into a hotbed of the virus.He said he will urge chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh to provide facilities for treatment of level-3 patients. “We do not have enough facilities for level-3 patients, who require ventilator. Critical patients are either rushed to DMCH, CMCH or another private hospital where the treatment crosses over Rs 7 to 8 lakh. Else the patients are rushed to Government Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, or PGIMER, Chandigarh. We need to upgrade the health infrastructure to tackle the problem,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-needs-better-facilities-for-critical-covid-patients-mp-bittu/story-vF7LQFnVltvhFXKtvGSeMP.html
27-07-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University mulling course in physiotherapy||Panjab University is considering introducing a bachelor’s course in physiotherapy and has started working on its modalities. The proposal is at the inception stage and a panel has already been constituted to deliberate upon its various aspects. A meeting of the panel was conducted earlier this month. The syllabus for the course had already been framed by the committee but it will be reviewed again. Jagat Bhushan, chairman of the panel, said, “The course is at the inception stage. Further aspects will be discussed once the syllabus is approved.” Further deliberations on the syllabus will be held in consultation with external physiotherapy experts as there are none at PU. It will then be cleared by the board of studies in medicine. “The introduction of this course will be of societal benefit as it is not run by many institutions here,” said Bhushan. Gurmeet Singh, chairperson, department of physical education, said, “Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU), Amritsar, and Punjabi University, Patiala, have a physiotherapy department each. PU should also introduce it. Physiotherapy is a part of sports training and without it one cannot produce a good athlete.” The committee also suggested that the course be run in collaboration with a health institution. A professor at the varsity said, “It will be better if the university ties up with some hospital to run the course. The recruitment of teachers is also a concern because many times courses are run without recruitment of permanent faculty.” The course is currently only being run at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Science and Research (PGIMER) in Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-mulling-course-in-physiotherapy/story-R01DCalaDKrIhtuOOsnzSO.html
27-07-2020||City||Two aides of Moga gangster held with illegal weapons in Ludhiana||Two days after gangster Navdeep Singh Navi, alias John Buttar, and his four aides were nabbed following a shootout in Kharar on Friday, two more of his accomplices were arrested in Ludhiana on Saturday.The CIA staff of the Ludhiana Rural police recovered a .32-bore pistol, a magazine and two bullets from their possession. A motorcycle that they robbed in Moga has also been recovered.The accused have been identified as Maninder Singh, alias Bagga, of Lakkha village and Manpreet Singh of Manuke village of Hathur.Ludhiana Rural senior superintendent of police (SSP) Vivek Sheel Soni said the accused were involved in a firing incident in Buttar village. The duo was arrested following a tip-off, he added.A case under Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered against the accused at Hathur police station. They were produced before a court on Sunday and sent in police remand till August 1 for questioning.Buttar, who hails from Moga, and his four aides, including Kulwinder Singh and Parminder Singh, alias Pinda, residents of Buttar Kalan village in Moga; and Amritpal Singh and Amrik Singh, residents of Samrala, Ludhiana, were arrested in Kharar on Friday. Buttar was wanted in 18 cases of murder, attempt to murder, dacoity and extortion.He was on Sunday discharged from PGIMER where he was admitted for two bullet injuries on his legs, suffered during the encounter at Aman Homes in Kharar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-aides-of-moga-gangster-held-with-illegal-weapons-in-ludhiana/story-HXsUZ1g4CYGvy01RrQOm5H.html
27-07-2020||Gurugram||Guidelines for limiting timings of online classes evoke mixed responses from schools||Aaryav Shukla, a four-year-old nursery student in a city-based school, attends online classes four days a week. The classes are two-hour-long with a small break in between. Aaryav’s mother, Sonu Singh, sits by his side throughout the class, coaxing the four-year-old to sit still and focus on the lessons being taught.“Getting a three or four-year-old to pay attention to online classes for two hours is a tough task. None of the children in his class are able to concentrate for so long. Uninterrupted screen usage makes them restless and cranky. There is a small break in between classes but that doesn’t mean that the screen goes off. Teachers and students continue to remain logged in,” said Singh, who is among the scores of parents who are struggling to limit their children’s excessive exposure to digital devices during the Covid-19 pandemic.What government guidelines say In response to the concerns, the ministry of human resources recently released guidelines meant to limit the time students spend in front of screens. The ministry has recommended a cap on the screen time for students. As per the guidelines released in the second week of July, online classes for pre-primary students should not be for more than 30 minutes. It further mentions that two online sessions of up to 30-45 minutes each should be conducted for classes 1 to 8 and four sessions for classes 9 to 12. Most parents, however, said that schools were to yet to adopt the guidelines and were continuing with classes as before. “The guidelines say that online classes for nursery should not take place beyond 30 minutes but schools are following their own schedules. Since the guidelines are not mandatory, schools do not have an incentive to abide by them,” said Singh.Schools, however, insist that children will get used to attending the classes with time. “Teachers tell us that children will adjust eventually like they do in physical classes. However, people fail to understand that there is a marked difference in the way a child perceives a physical class as compared to an online one,” said Singh.Tripti Singh, whose children study in two different private schools in the city, said that back-to-back online classes were tiring for children. Her son, a Class-5 student, used to attend classes from 9am to 3pm until recently when the school reduced the timings by two hours. “It becomes tiresome for children to sit on the computer in the same position for hours at a stretch. My son used to have long duration classes which were recently readjusted after the school took cognisance of the guidelines,” said Singh.Beyond the classes, children were also spending additional time in the completion of assignments and other school work, she said. “Anywhere between seven to eight hours on a daily basis go into classes and the resulting work assignments. Sometimes, I see my daughter working on collaborative art projects until 9 -10 at night. While it is educational, all activities take place via digital screens,” said Singh, adding that schools needed to revise their timings while taking cognizance of the new lived realities. “Nowadays, screen time for children is already high. Even during the break, children are catching up with friends through these devices. With long-duration online classes, exposure to digital screens is further increased. Schools need to understand that,” said Singh.Mixed reactions from schoolsThe guidelines seeking a reduction in online learning hours have elicited mixed reactions from private schools in the city. While some schools said that the guidelines would ensure that learning continues to take place as per a schedule, others said that restricting online classes without understanding the effect on learning continuity will have an adverse impact on students’ development in the long term.Manit Jain, co-founder of Heritage Schools, said that while most of the guidelines were relevant, it was important to make a distinction between good and bad screen time. “Policymakers must recognise that productive screen time is not only desirable but is necessary in such times,” said Jain, adding that there would be a potential loss if learning were to remain interrupted for months in the current circumstances. “People are often casual about the need for learning and think that children can go without classes for some time. While screen time such as gaming or violent television is not healthy, online classes cannot be considered as bad screen time. It has to be seen as mentoring and teaching. Without 3-4 hours of instruction in the senior classes, children will not be able to handle independent tasks since they are not in the habit of doing so,” said Jain.He also said that the government will have to recognise the fact there were many countries that continue to run their timetable as they did when they were running in the physical environment and international boards may not cut the syllabus in line with specific countries. “The IB and IGSCE are yet to modify the syllabus. International boards might not cut substantial portions of the syllabus. The government needs to think about this as well,” said Jain.Aditi Misra, principal, Delhi Public School, Sector 45, said that the school had been following a pattern similar to the one advised by the human resources ministry since March itself. “We have been adopting a similar model for classes since the beginning. We routinely take surveys to factor in the concerns of students and parents and all stakeholders seem happy with the arrangement,” said Misra.She said that concerns about completion of syllabus had been addressed by the CBSE, which had reduced the syllabus for children in the senior classes and underlined that completing a certain number of teachers’ hours and other formalities would be taken care of keeping in view the unprecedented circumstances. Schools need to have a minimum of 200 working days for classes one to five and 220 working days for upper primary classes in an academic year, as mandated by Section 19 of the Right To Education Act, 2009.“The burden of syllabus has reduced somewhat. As far as other classes are concerned, we need to understand that everything has gone topsy-turvy and this is not a normal school year. CBSE is also reworking the syllabus. Things are bound to change,” said Misra.Some schools fall in lineKunal Bhadoo, director of Kunskapsskolan Schools, said that the school had introduced changes in its online class schedule based on feedback from parents and teachers. The school is trying to replicate the physical classes that used to take place in the school in a manner whereby the classes are a blend of screen time and self-directed learning.“Parents were concerned about the fatigue that sets in during online sessions. After feedback, we planned and implemented the lessons in such a way that the effective screen time is curtailed. While the teacher shows the whiteboard or the screen for some time, children get the chance to put away the screen and complete the work in sheets or notebooks in a self-directed manner. Teachers are always available to solve the queries of students,” said Bhadoo. He added that the guidelines were more relevant to schools where teachers are relying on recorded videos that require students to stay glued in for long durations.Aparna Erry, principal, DAV Public School, Sector 14, said that the guidelines were not binding and most schools were planning schedules keeping in mind the challenges of online classes. “Most schools are largely adopting schedules of a similar duration. At our school, the duration of sessions varies for students in different classes. For senior classes, we have classes for three to four hours but the schedule keeps changing in view of the syllabus,” said Erry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/guidelines-for-limiting-timings-of-online-classes-evoke-mixed-responses-from-schools/story-nx3xuBCEaUzURms3ixx2DP.html
27-07-2020||Gurugram||Govt college holds webinar on body shaming, self-esteem among girls||A webinar was organised by the women empowerment cell of Government Girl College, Sector 14, on the issue of body image on Sunday afternoon for an hour.Over 150 students took part in the webinar, which discussed the various issues pertaining to body shaming and how individuals should be more accepting of being different from others. The discussion also touched upon the issue of peer pressure on social media.Vageesha Rao, a certified counsellor, held the webinar and discussed at length issues regarding young individuals, questions of personality, handling societal pressure and other peer issues.Rao said that young girls and boys often slip into depression and, in many cases, have ended their lives, when they fail to cope up with peer pressure. “During the session, students were made aware of how there is a vicious cycle between body image, mental health, and self-esteem. Students were given examples of people who stood up to body shaming time and again. The aim of the session was to promote the idea that loving one’s own body should not mean hating someone else’s” she said.Dr Vijay Adlakha, principal, Government Girls College, Sector 14, said that students could relate to what was being discussed and found the session to be very informative and interesting. “Body shaming is something that concerns every young mind while growing up and the issue needs to be addressed by both parents and teachers. Otherwise, it can leave a deep impact on young minds,” he said.Rao said, while men too can face body shaming, but the level of shaming being faced by women is much more. “Try to avoid negative people. I have discussed and given a presentation of a few exercises to do daily regarding self-esteem. Have asked the students to write the five positive points about themselves daily at bedtime and to think why we love our family and friends — is it due to physical appearance or their virtues?,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-govt-college-holds-webinar-on-body-shaming-self-esteem-among-girls/story-pAcinz2HbMz3T97bB9I9AK.html
27-07-2020||Mumbai||‘42.5% decline in Mumbai’s urban green cover over 30 years’||The city’s development over the past three decades has come at a cost – 42.5% decline in urban green cover, according to a study published last week in peer-reviewed journal Springer Nature. Of Mumbai’s total area of 63,035hectares (ha), the green cover was 29,260ha in 1988, which fell to 20,481ha in 1998, 17,331ha in 2008, and 16,814ha in 2018, which means an overall decline of 42.5% over 30 years. The green cover lost is 12,446ha, more than the size of the Sanjay Gandhi National Park (10,300ha). Researchers from Manipal Academy, Karnataka, Delhi School of Economics, Kazi Nazrul University, Asansol, West Bengal, and East China Normal University, Shanghai, used Landsat-5 and Landsat-8 multi-temporal satellite images provided by United States Geological Survey to assess land use land cover (LULC) changes, land surface temperature (LST), proportion of vegetation, and other parameters for Mumbai during spring (March-April) over 30 years. The study identified a three-fold increase in land surface temperature (LST), which is negatively affected by loss of green spaces, as a reason for micro-climate changes in Mumbai, due to increase in built-up areas and subsequent latent heat. “LULC changes have subsequently altered the micro-climate of the city’s urban ecosystem. Surface temperature variation and changes in rainfall distribution are a direct indicator of this,” said Selim Jahangir, corresponding author from Manipal Academy of Higher Education. “Preserving urban green spaces is extremely important in the context of climate change as they influence rainfall and temperature, and determine the micro climate of a city.” Satellite maps indicated that 43% area under dense and 20% sparse vegetation steadily decreased from 1988 to 2018. Major affected areas that witnessed changes in dense vegetation include SGNP, Aarey Colony in Goregaon, Mulund, Bhandup, Gorai, Malad and Versova creek areas. Sparse vegetation reduction was witnessed across the central suburbs and isolated zones in south Mumbai, including Bandra, Khar, Malabar Hill, Pedder Road, Dadar, Lower Parel, Mazgaon, Colaba and Cuffe Parade, said researchers. “If the same trend continues for the next 10 years, it will not only adversely affect biodiversity, but also human health, by increasing urban heat island and air pollution,” said Jahangir. The ratio of green spaces to total area fell from 46.7% in 1988 to 26.67% in 2018, with most significant changes observed during 1988-1998, when around 14% of green spaces had transformed due to development activities. Areas of LST higher than 30.5 degrees Celsius dramatically increased from 5,232ha in 1988 to 14,339ha in 2018. Conversely, a drastic decline was recorded (32.28%) in green spaces having less than 25.5 degrees Celsius from 11,858ha in 1988 to 7,979ha in 2018. “Increasing LST intensity would lead to an increase in urban heat island effect, bringing about adverse change in fundamental environmental indicators such as rise in atmospheric greenhouse gases, heat waves and air quality, and declining biodiversity,” said Jahangir. The study called for requirement of policy implications at a location-specific level to harness the depleting green cover. “There is a need for the government to notice such changes, and bring in stringent regulation on arbitrary tree cutting for developmental projects,” said Jahangir. “Additionally, citizens can adopt green roof methods and balcony garden techniques similar to Singapore and Brisbane, Australia. This would increase the cooling effect and also improve air quality.” Pankaj Kumar, author and assistant professor, Delhi School of Economics, said, “District authorities need to establish policy mitigation measures, encouraging social forestry, urban green belts, and declare more protected areas. Implications of this are not confined just to Mumbai, but the entire region.” Mumbai’s tree census completed in 2018 identified 29.75 lakh trees, over 10 lakh more from 2008. “Tree census data is false as the same data is repeated every year. The findings of the latest study are a grim reminder that the city’s environment has remained largely ignored,” said activist Zoru Bhathena. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said they were maintaining 1044 plots, 254 gardens, 319 playgrounds and 432 recreation grounds. “Lack of space is a constraint, but tree cover has increased. Combined with Miyawaki plantation (dense mini urban forests) across 100 plots, spaces under flyovers converted into green zones, and more green buildings, the situation has improved from what it was five years ago,” said an official from BMC’s garden department. BMC has issued notices for removal of 6,382 trees from January to July 26, 2020. In 2019, notices were issued for felling of 14,518 trees and 8,775 trees in 2018. The data was compiled from BMC advertisements by Bhathena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/42-5-decline-in-mumbai-s-urban-green-cover/story-1uHglIrejP2nUOWEA9YFTP.html
27-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt data shows Covid-19 deaths down 44% from June||The number of deaths reported in Delhi from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) reduced from 1,089 between June 1 and June 12 to 605 recorded between July 1 and July 12, a drop of 44.50%, data shared by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s office showed on Sunday.The analysis, which was conducted by the Delhi health department, showed that in the July period, the deaths recorded within 24 hours of hospital admission dropped to 15%, down from the 34% figure in the June period. The data also showed that the percentage of deaths recorded within four days of admission to hospitals witnessed a drop from 67% to 35% in the two periods.An official in the CM’s office said they were still to analyse the data on deaths beyond July 12. This is why the comparison was made with the first 12 days of the previous month, the official said. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal earlier asked the Delhi health department to take stock of all Covid-19 deaths recorded in the months of June and July and sought reports based on their analysis. The final report was submitted to the CM’s office on Sunday, when Delhi recorded 21 deaths, taking the toll to 3,827.“The committee formed under the health department to analyse hospital-wise death numbers in June and July attributed the decrease in death figures to widespread tests, distribution of pulse oximeters to patients in home isolation, reduction in response time for the ambulance system, a system developed to check the real-time availability of Covid beds and focus on scaling up ICU beds from around 500 in early-June to more than 2,200 in early-July,” Kejriwal said in a statement.The data also showed that Covid-19 deaths in the two periods reduced by 58% at Delhi government hospitals, by 55% at central government hospitals and by 25% at private hospitals in the city.The Delhi and central governments have five Covid-19-dedicated hospitals each. There are about 115 private hospitals in the city with Covid-19-dedicated wards at different scales.Hospital-wise analysis of the data showed that total deaths vis-à-vis total admissions in the central government’s RML Hospital dropped from 81% in June to 58% in July. At Safdarjung Hospital – another central government facility – the number of deaths vis-a-vis total admissions dropped from 40% in June to 31% in July. In Lok Nayak Hospital — Delhi government’s largest Covid hospital — the figure dropped from 28% in early June to 16% in early July, the analysis showed. At the Delhi government-run Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, the figure was 6% in early June and 7% in early July.“The CM’s efforts and direct monitoring have rebuilt public confidence in Delhi government hospitals, which have been at the forefront of this turnaround. The chief minister has directed the best performing and worst forming hospitals to analyse their system and suggest specific interventions if needed,” Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said.Jain said increased testing in the city has ensured that suspected Covid-19 patients can access testing facilities easily without losing time or developing severe symptoms. “This is a reason why fewer people died within 24 hours and four days of being admitted in a hospital.“The Covid mobile application further ensured patients could easily find a bed in a hospital of their liking – be it private or government – without running around multiple hospitals and losing precious time in the process,” said Jain, adding that in the Corresponding periods, the total Covid-19 beds in Delhi hospitals increased from 3,700 to 15,000.On Sunday, Delhi reported 1,075 Covid-19 cases, taking the city’s cases so far to 130,606. “Today, Delhi reaches 10th position. People are recovering and No of active cases are steadily going down,” the CM tweeted, sharing a list of the states with the number of active Covid-19 cases.Dr Jacob John, former professor of virology at the Christian Medical College in Tamil Nadu’s Vellore, said: “Other states should follow Delhi’s example in the areas of increased tests, distribution of pulse oximeters, focusing on ambulance fleet, ICU beds and developing an interface for Covid bed availability. Delhi, however, could have done better in terms of saving more lives if it had taken the same measures at least two months in advance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-data-shows-covid-deaths-down-44-from-june/story-pphZA58OP22JyP6yLCPkiO.html
27-07-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra FYJC Admissions 2020: State to launch app for admission, fee payment to be conducted online||The state education department on Sunday said it will launch a mobile application to facilitate the admission process for first-year junior college (FYJC) students in the coming days, amid the Covid-19 outbreak and the ensuing lockdown. The colleges will also grant provisional admissions to students and the fee payment procedure would be online, to prevent students and parents from gathering at the colleges. Students from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) can fill part 1 of the admission form from August 1 and get details of admissions on https://mumbai.11thadmission.org.in. While the state education department is yet to declare the dates for Class 10, they are expected to be out by the end of the month. “This year, due to the Covid-19 outbreak, students cannot visit colleges, and hence we decided to conduct the admission process online, ensuring there is zero contact. Students can easily fill out their forms online and also upload their documents on the portal online,” said Rajendra Ahire, deputy director, Mumbai region. The information booklet, which helps students with the admission process, will also be made available online. The department also allowed students to fill out mock forms as a practice exercise before they fill out the actual forms. Around 1.25 lakh students filled out the mock forms until Saturday – the last day to fill the forms. Students who apply for admissions under the various quotas can seek help from their respective schools over the phone where help desks would be set up to guide them with the procedure. Those from other boards or from other parts of the state or country can also get their doubts solved online and upload documents from home.They can upload copies of their documents online and get them verified. The entire process will be online,” added Ahire.For academic year 2020-21, around 3.19 lakh seats will be up for grabs across 819 colleges in MMR. What will the process look like this year? - From August 1, students can fill part 1 of the online form with their basic details such as name, address etc. - Once the results are declared, students can fill part 2 of the form with details of their marks and college preferences. - Merit lists will be declared online and details of allotted colleges will be sent to the schools. Students will also get SMS alerts on registered phone numbers. - Students can confirm admissions to the colleges allotted and pay the fees online. - Colleges will grant provisional admissions to students. The physical verification of documents would take place after the colleges reopen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/state-to-launch-app-for-fyjc-admission-fee-payment-to-be-conducted-online/story-fxHMyuW6g4P1qesYjEzp9J.html
27-07-2020||Delhi||Eight-year-old girl abducted, raped in north Delhi slum||An eight-year-old girl sleeping next to her grandmother outside their home in north Delhi was kidnapped and raped in the early hours of Friday, the Delhi Police said on Sunday after using the survivor’s description of the suspect to nab a street vendor. The suspect had allegedly gone to visit the crime spot on Saturday morning to observe the nature of the probe when the police team noticed him and nabbed him.“The survivor had given us an accurate description of his beard colour, hair style and age which helped us catch him after 16 hours of investigation,” said a senior police investigator who didn’t want to be identified. The suspect, 40-year-old Sudama, allegedly told the police that he “lost control of his senses” after getting drunk that night. “We are investigating whether he targeted more children, although no other case has come up so far,” said the officer. The girl lives with her grandmother and uncle in a slum in north Delhi. “Around 2 am on Friday, she was sleeping with her grandmother on a cot outside their house when Sudama gagged her and took her away behind a religious place in the neighbourhood,” said the officer. He left the crime scene after allegedly raping her even as the girl’s family woke up to find her missing. They had just begun their search when they found her walking back.“They didn’t think too much of her disappearance at that time, but in the morning her grandmother found her bleeding,” said the officer. The child was taken to Sucheta Kripalani Hospital where the doctors noticed sexually assault and alerted the police. “The child could only speak Marathi. So, we sought help from another girl in the neighbourhood to get a description of the suspect,” the officer said.The child described the suspect as a man with a salt and pepper coloured beard, long hair with middle parting. “We rounded up about 70 suspects, but the survivor did not confirm the photographs of any of them,” said the officer. But local enquiry revealed that a man of that description would frequently visit a tea shop in the neighbourhood. But the suspect allegedly turned up near the crime spot where a police team was carrying out the probe on Saturday morning. “One of our officers noticed him and found his appearance similar to that of the description provided by the survivor,” said the officer. Seeing the police approach him, the suspect allege began to run, but was chased and caught.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/8-year-old-girl-abducted-raped-in-north-delhi-slum/story-b8KXQnoBr3b9kVvxyDKHTJ.html
27-07-2020||Delhi||18 newborns in Delhi tested positive for Covid-19 since March||At least 18 babies born to mothers suffering from coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in three Delhi hospitals since the first case was detected in March tested positive for the infection within a few hours to five days after birth. However, doctors ruled out that it was a case of transmission in the womb or vertical transmission.Although, mother to child transmission in newborns could not be established, the doctors said this shows that the babies can get the infection soon after birth from the environment. Doctors said all but one of the Covid-infected babies was asymptomatic and one of the babies born at RML hospital, who had other conditions, died.The highest number of deliveries – 86 cesarean sections and 124 normal deliveries – were handled at the 2,000-bed Lok Nayak hospital, the city’s biggest dedicated Covid-19 treatment facility, according to the medical director of the hospital Dr Suresh Kumar.“All babies born to Covid-19 positive mothers are tested for the infection soon after their birth and on day five. So far, five babies have tested positive for the infection. Of these five, three were found positive on the day of their birth. Although this is suggestive of the baby getting the infection in-utero before birth, there is no evidence of vertical transmission from anywhere in the world. Globally, 0.5 to 1% of newborns have been found to have the infection,” said Dr Sangeeta Gupta, professor of gynaecology at Lok Nayak hospital.Doctors from Ram Manohar Lohia hospital, however, said they couldn’t rule out vertical transmission in one of the three babies testing positive there.“The baby tested positive within 16 hours of birth. There had been no contact with the positive mother after delivery and the baby had been taken to the nursery soon after. We could not send samples of the placenta, amniotic fluids, or cord blood for testing. The second way of confirmation was to test the baby for IgM antibodies. However, since the tests are not yet standardised, the baby tested negative,” said Dr Aarti Maria, head of the department of neonatology at RML hospital.The highest number of positive babies were born at Safdarjung hospital, where over 100 Covid-19 positive mothers have delivered.“So far, ten babies have tested positive for the infection after birth. However, none of the babies tested positive within first few hours of life, ruling out the possibility of vertical transmission,” said Dr Sheeba Marwah, assistant professor and nodal Covid-19 officer for gynaecology department in Vardhaman Mahavir Medical College and Safdarjung hospital.Dr Sushma Nangia, head of the department of neonatology at Lady Hardinge Medical College, said “Fortunately, the babies seem to get very mild or no symptoms at all and recover soon.”An observational study of 120 newborns in New York, recently published in the journal Lancet Chile and Adolescent Health Journal, shows that none of the babies got the infection during childbirth or after two weeks of breastfeeding and skin to skin contact. Breastfeeding is recommended by the WHO as well as most professional bodies of gynaecology and neonatology, according to the doctors.“Evidence shows that there is minimal risk of contracting Covid-19 during breastfeeding and thus breastfeeding should be promoted irrespective of the Covid-19 status of the mother,” said Dr Maria.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/18-newborns-ve-right-after-birth-doctors-rule-out-vertical-transmission-of-virus/story-tb1N7BYGiL9ipJvR8FUmzH.html
27-07-2020||Delhi||Many Covid-19 care centres in Delhi empty, as most patients stay at home||At a Delhi government Covid Care Centre in Narela, one of the first such facilities in the Capital, close to 1,200 people are quarantined, but none of them are positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). These are, instead, people who have returned from abroad on flights under the Centre’s Vande Bharat repatriation mission.“We have not got any Covid-19 positive patients since July 10. Till last month, we were getting 150-200 Covid-19 patients daily,” said Dr Ishrat Kafeel, the chief minister’s representative at the 1,370 bed Narela facility.A similar picture has persisted in some other such facilities across the national capital. Care Centres can house patients with mild symptoms who are unable to isolate in their homes. However, with a large number of patients in home isolation — 6,976 as on Sunday, and the number of new daily cases showing a downward trend, the occupancy at these centres has seen a steady fall. Of the 11,904 active cases (patients still infected with Covid-19) in the city on Sunday, only 853 (around 7%) are in these centres.This has made the Delhi government rethink its use of these centres.Like Narela, other Covid Care facilities have very few positive cases admitted currently. Of the 18 state-run quarantine centres started by the Delhi government, at least seven have had no patients for weeks now. These include the YMCA Tourist hostel, Badarpur (specify), Birla Mandir Dharamshala, DDU Marg facility and PTS Dwarka. Two facilities in southeast Delhi that were turned Covid facilities have been returned to the Railways.“Some of the facilities were used to keep members of Tablighi Jammat who were evacuated from Nizamuddin Markaz. Then when the number of cases increased, especially in densely populated areas such as Jahangirpuri, asymptomatic and those with mild symptoms are sent to these centres,” said a senior government official.Additionally, with the government opening two major Covid care centres — the 10,000-bed Sardar Patel centre in Chhatarpur and a 500-bed centre in the Commonwealth Games village, there has been a steady decline in the number of Covid-19 positive cases being sent to these centres.Admissions to the city’s care centres have been on an upward trend since June 2, when 648 positive patients were admitted to the various facilities, with the total number on that day hitting 1,370. The number peaked at 2,304 on July 17. However, the number has mostly dropped since then, falling to 1,522 as on July 24, then further to 904 the day after that.Delhi government divisional commissioner Sanjeev Khirwar said, “We are recalibrating our resources, especially at big facilities at Narela and Sultanpuri, for optimal utilisation. We have some large facilities like the Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre, and we are sending new cases to these facilities. Wherever possible, we are shifting patients from other centres to these facilities.”However, occupancy rates at the two flagship centres are quite low, with around 250 patients in the Chhatarpur facility, and around 200 in the CWG one.The Delhi government spokesperson didn’t respond, despite multiple attempts for comment.In some centres, the government has withdrawn the staff and deputed them elsewhere, while at others, it is in the process of handing over the centres, at least partially, to the authority that owns the premises.At Police Training School in Dwarka for instance, medical and support staff has been withdrawn. “But the infrastructure is in place and if need be it can be restarted in no time,” a Delhi government official said.At northeast Delhi’s Mandoli Jail Complex, which has a capacity of 750 beds, Delhi government authorities are in the process of handing over five of the 12 towers to jail authorities for their use. The facility, which was packed to capacity in May and June, has only 32 Covid-19 patients now, according to a senior official in-charge of the facility.Delhi director general of prisons Sandeep Goel confirmed that the prison department had written to the state government, requesting the Mandoli police complex be turned into a temporary prison. Goel said, “The police complex could accommodate at least 2,000 prisoners.”As per the Delhi government’s daily health bulletin, as on Saturday, 3,202 beds in care centres are occupied by persons under quarantine, including travellers who returned on Vande Bharat mission and bubble flights.At Bakkarwala facility with over 500-beds, there are close to 380 people, who have come from abroad, in quarantine. Sunny Kheda, the CM’s representative at the facility said, “For the past 10 days, we have not got any Covid-19 positive case.”A senior official from west Delhi district said, “We are sending a majority of the patients to the Sardar Patel facility. But those who want to stay in the district are kept at the care facility in Tilak Nagar. The Bakkarwala facility is being used to house those coming from abroad.”Similarly, the northwest district is sending new Covid-19 cases to the Shakur Basti facility that is operating from train coaches, instead of the 1,032-bed Sultanpuri Covid Care Centre. However, Delhi government officials said they sought to remain cautious and while some of the centres are not in use right now, they may be made operational immediately if necessary.Khirwar said, “In case, there is a surge in cases, we will use these centres to keep Covid patients. We are not closing these centres.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/many-covid-care-centres-in-delhi-empty-as-most-patients-stay-at-home/story-xvCrHGNloXU91SqSBCoCNO.html
27-07-2020||Delhi||Off-duty Delhi police officer stops to clear traffic jam, run over by truck||A 54-year-old assistant commissioner of police (ACP) of Delhi Traffic Police was killed after an allegedly speeding mini truck hit and dragged him for nearly 50 metres on a service lane near the Rajokri flyover in southwest Delhi where he was busy clearing a traffic jam on Saturday night.The mishap took place around 8pm. The errant truck driver fled the accident spot, leaving the critically injured police officer lying unconscious on the road. The injured ACP, Sanket Kaushik, was rushed to AIIMS Trauma Centre, where he was declared brought dead, deputy commissioner of police (southwest) Devender Arya said.DCP Arya said Kaushik was posted in Dwarka traffic circle and was returning from office in his official vehicle along with his driver and operator (person who handles wireless) when they found a traffic jam on the service lane near the Rajokri flyover. ACP Kaushik, along with his staff, went to clear the traffic jam. While his driver and operator were busy removing a Santro car, ACP Kaushik walked ahead on the road.“A mini truck hit him from behind and dragged him for nearly 50 metres under it before hitting concrete barriers placed on the road. The ACP suffered multiple injuries and was declared brought dead in the hospital. A case of rash and negligent driving causing death under Sections 279 and 304A of Indian Penal Code has been registered against the unknown driver,” said Arya, adding that the ACP was not in uniform.The police are also probing the case from a conspiracy angle. Since the ACP was posted in the traffic unit, police officials have not ruled out the role of a transporter or “syndicates”, including those from Mewat region involved in various illegal activities such as cattle lifting or smuggling of illegal goods.Six teams of the southwest district police have been working on the case and they have scanned footage from more than 30 CCTV cameras installed near the accident spot and the probable routes that the truck may have taken to flee after the mishap. The police are yet to identify the truck. Officers said the registration number of the vehicle is not visible in the CCTV footage because of the glare of its head lamps.“It’s a hit-and-run case. Initially, we did not know what vehicle was involved in the mishap. We found two motor mechanics who told us that they had seen a Tata 407 mini-truck hitting the concrete barriers on the road where the injured ACP was lying unconscious. We scanned the CCTV cameras and found the images of the truck in three-four cameras. However, its registration number is not visible,” said an officer associated with one of the investigating teams.Officials said that a list of mini trucks registered in Delhi-NCR is being prepared. Also, all the motor workshops in Delhi-NCR are also being told to inform the police if any mini truck comes for repair.“The task is tough but it will certainly help us identify the truck and its driver involved in the accident. We have solved some blind road mishap cases through similar exercise in the past. Meanwhile, more CCTV cameras are being scanned,” said another investigator.Kaushik had joined the Delhi Police as a sub-inspector in 1989. His initial posting was in the southwest district and was promoted as an Inspector in 2006. He was promoted to the rank of an ACP in May 2017 and was serving in the traffic unit since June 2019. He is survived by his wife, two daughters and a son. His family lives in Basant Gaon in south Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/traffic-acp-hit-by-mini-truck-dragged-for-50-metres-while-clearing-a-jam-dies/story-jcys2MuOh2CshEGc6TkgdL.html
27-07-2020||Delhi||Rethink policy on containment zones, Jain asks Centre||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Sunday said the Centre should reconsider its policy on containment zones.Currently, the guidelines of the Union health ministry ask states to implement sealing of areas that record a cluster of Covid-19 cases, and containment efforts can be scaled down only after no fresh case is recorded in the sealed area for at least 21 consecutive days, irrespective of the time when the concerned area is notified as a containment zone.“I feel the Centre needs to review its containment zone policy. The latest sero survey showed around 24% people of Delhi may have already contracted the virus and recovered. It’s already been a month since that survey. In the next survey (scheduled between August 1 and 5), it may touch 35-40%,” he said, suggesting the Centre explore the possibility of allowing scaling down containment measures after 15 days of notifying a containment zone.“It is difficult to implement a uniform policy across the country. That is what the central government should re-consider... Separate sets of containment policies should be drafted for states and cities, with due consideration to factors such as results of sero survey, prevalence rate, average daily cases and deaths,” said Jain, citing examples of pockets and lanes in the city that have been such zones for over three months.“The health ministry has given states the right to tweak containment zones based on the situation on the ground, as long as they adhere to broader guidelines,” said a central government official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/satyendar-jain-asks-centre-to-rethink-containment-zone-strategy/story-LMocQydYFR3OYS5agLMOKK.html
27-07-2020||Pune||10k Covid-19 positive cases in just six days as Pune breaches 50,000 mark||The city, on Sunday, breached the grim 50,000 Covid-19 case mark, according to the state health department. With Sunday’s 1,921 fresh positives, the city’s tally now stands at 51,291. Pune reported 10,000 cases in just six days to breach 50,000. The city took 100 days (March 9 to June 16) to reach the first 10,000 cases and then, the next 10,000 cases took 18 days. Pune crossed the 30,000-mark in the next 11 days and just took six days more to cross 40,000 cases. On Sunday, the city also reported 28 deaths taking the toll to 1,276, as per state health department figures. In these six days, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) collected over 32,319 samples for testing of which over 10,000 tested positive for Covid-19 infection, which takes the positivity rate to 30.94%. However, the PMC in its daily report reported a lower number of cases as compared to the state’s report. The civic body reported 992 fresh Covid-19 positive cases, taking the city’s progressive positive count to 48,057. Also, 13 deaths were reported taking the final death toll to 1,166. Of the 18,298 active cases in the city currently undergoing treatment, 682 are in critical condition, out of these 105 are on ventilator (invasive), 378 are serious patients in ICU and 199 are undergoing non-invasive ventilator treatment.The city’s recovery rate stood at 59.49% as out of the 48,057 progressive positive cases, 28,593 were discharged after being declared as cured. Of the discharged, 1,175 were discharged on Sunday. The PMC also collected a total of 2,506 samples on Sunday taking the total count to 2.44 samples collected till date. The 13 deaths include three each at Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital, Sassoon General Hospital (SGH) and Naidu hospital. One death each was reported from Symbiosis hospital, District Hospital, Aundh, Bhakare Hospital and KEM hospital. Deaths reported from out of city residents from city hospitals are two from SGH, Sahyadri hospital, AIIMS hospital and Ruby Hall Clinic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/10k-covid-19-positive-cases-in-just-six-days-as-pune-breaches-50-000-mark/story-Hk5cNB180OfxCfrFLWUbmK.html
27-07-2020||Delhi||Jesus & Mary college alumni, students raise Rs 2 lakh for on-campus Bhelpuri seller||“I knew that they loved my bhelpuri. But it’s so overwhelming to know that they didn’t forget us in such a situation,” said an emotional Mitlesh Jha, who has been selling the savoury snack from a stall outside Delhi University’s Jesus and Mary College (JMC) since 1991. The 48-year-old has been out-of-work ever since the college closed in view of the Covid-19 pandemic in March. Jha had since been struggling to provide for his family of four --- wife and three children. “Our family was completely dependent on the snack cart that i operated. I have seen generations pass out of this college. I still remember having served bhelpuri to Priyanka Gandhi, Neha Dhupia and other celebrities when they were students here. The college has given me so much love and respect in the last 30 years. But, then Covid came and was forced to sit at home for months without any work,” he said.However, things started to change for Jha in the last few days after two alumni of the college initiated an online fundraiser and collected Rs 2 lakh for their beloved “Bhelpuri wale bhaiya”. “Last week I visited the Alaknanda market in an attempt to sell some of my snack. There, I met a college student and she asked me what I was doing there. I told her that I was trying to restart my business. I requested her to spread the word that I was operating out of the Alaknanda market in case somebody wanted some bhelpuri. Back then I was barely getting 3-4 customers a day. The girl put out a message on a Whatsapp group right there,” Jha said.The text message was forwarded multiple times and finally landed up in the inbox of Aishwarya Mehra, 25, who graduated from JMC in 2016. Mehra, an entrepreneur living in Vasant Kunj, along with her former classmate Vedika Mehta launched an online fundraising campaign for Jha on July 22. “We were really sad to know about him. He had been one of the most memorable parts of our college lives. We wanted to do something for him too. We decided to launch an online fundraising campaign for him and within 48 hours over 225 people, mostly alumni and students, contributed Rs 2,09,567 for him,” Mehra said.“The support was overwhelming. We have a lot of contributions from our alumni living abroad. The entire money will be transferred to his account by next Friday,” she added.Overwhelmed by the support, Jha said that he will not have to struggle to provide for his family for the next few months. “My daughter is now in class 12 and she has to attend online classes. We were even struggling to get her a regular internet package. Now, with this support I will be able to help her in her studies as well,” he said.Teachers also appreciated the collective efforts of JMC alumni and students. Richa Raj, assistant professor at the college, said, “We are so proud of our alumni and students for helping Jha. It’s very important to help people in need in times like these.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/jesus-mary-college-alumni-students-raise-rs-2-lakh-for-on-campus-bhelpuri-seller/story-hlhJMNTlTcCy1P0oQmuQZK.html
27-07-2020||Noida||Noida: Man robbed of valuables on pretext of lift||Four unidentified men allegedly robbed a 43-year-old Agra-based man of his valuables on the pretext of offering him a lift on Saturday.The victim, Kishan Datt Sharma, was in town to visit his brother in Salarpur, and was waiting for a bus near Sector 37 to return to Agra Saturday morning when the alleged incident took place. The victim said the suspects assaulted him and threatened him with a knife.“It was sometime after 7am when a white Dzire car came and stopped near me. There were two people inside it, and it seemed to be a shared cab. After I got in, two more people came and claimed that they wanted to go to Agra too. When we reached Pari chowk, I pointed out that the driver had missed a turn. He said he had some work in Alpha 1 sector,” said Sharma.The victim said that near the Alpha 1 commercial belt, the two men sitting with him in the back-seat held a knife against him and took his wallet and phone. “They assaulted me when I tried to resist and dropped me off near the Alpha 1 Metro station. My wallet had ₹2,000 and ATM cards. After a while, I received messages of two transactions from my card worth of ₹10,000 and ₹1,900,” said Sharma.A case against the four suspects has been registered. The victim, however, alleged delay on the police’s part in filing an FIR.He said that he first went to Pari chowk police post, then to Beta 2 police station (both in Greater Noida) and was then made to go the Sector 37 police post in Noida (which is managed by the Sector 39 police station) where a policemen allegedly asked him to go back to Agra. He said that it was later when he shared his ordeal on social media when he was contacted by the local police to register a complaint.Based on his complaint, a case was registered Saturday night against the unidentified persons at Sector 39 police station under section 392 (punishment for robbery) of the Indian Penal Code.Police officers said that the delay in filing the FIR was only due to the victim first going to a different police station which didn’t have jurisdiction over the case.“We filed a case as soon as the complaint came to us. A probe in the matter is underway and we are working on identifying the vehicle used in the crime,” said Azad Tomar, station house officer, Sector 39 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-man-robbed-of-valuables-on-pretext-of-lift/story-pWzy6OOZIxHGlNUXriSnGJ.html
27-07-2020||Noida||Noida: Homebuyers’ association to take over, finish delayed flats||For the first time, a homebuyers’ association of a residential highrise will takeover and complete the project their developer failed to deliver.Jaiprakash Associate Limited’s (JAL’s) Kalypso Court in sector 128, along the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway, was launched in 2007 and was to have 1,140 residential units. However, the developer missed its deadline 2010-2011, forcing the homebuyers’ association to approach the Uttar Pradesh real estate regulatory authority (UP-Rera) in 2019.Last week, the authority offered the buyers’ association -- progressive welfare society -- the job of completing it, invoking the UP-Rera Act.“As per the sections 7 and 8 of the Act, we have the option to deregister the project and invite the buyers’ associations to take over the stuck project and deliver the same,” said Balvinder Kumar, member, UP-Rera. “JAL gave its consent and we allowed the buyers’ association to take control.”Interestingly, the association decided to hire JAL as the contractor for the work, which includes completing the remaining 304 residential units.While JAL refused to comment, Jayesh Patel, the president of the association, said, “UP-Rera allowed us to hire JAL as a contractor. We did not have any issue with the quality of JAL’s work, only the delay. We hired JAL because they constructed the entire project so they can do a better job. Funding is also not a problem for us. We hope the construction work will be started in a week’s time and complete in 12 months.”This is not the first time that the UP-Rera has used these sections of the law.Earlier, the authority had offered to give a housing project in sector 119 to its buyers. But the promoter went to the national company law tribunal and the takeover never happened.Last week, along with Kalypso Court, two other projects -- Bhasin Group’s Festival City in sector 143 and PSA Impex’s Sampda Livia in Greater Noida -- were offered to their respective buyers’s associations. The Festival City is spread over 25 acres and has space for shops, offices and residential villas. It was launched in 2012 and supposed to be delivered by 2016, but the developer could only construct the civil structure .“We do not have any technical experience and also lack funds to finish such a big project. Therefore we have decided to not accept the RERA’s offer,” said Festival City welfare association president Rajiv Nijhawan.Satendar Singh Bhasin, its promoter, said that buyers could not take over the project in any case as there is an ongoingcase in Allahabad High Court against the Noida authority that had allegedly not allotted the land properly. “Until the land issue is decided in the high court, the buyers’ taking over is not possible,” said Bhasin.Similarly the Sampada Livia buyers are not too keen to take over the project. PSA Impex, which was to develop it, could only construct 10% of the ₹220 crore project of around 750 units that was to be delivered in 2012-13.“An association lacks the required strength to finish and deliver such a project. During this time no bank will fund such a project then how can we be deliver it,” said Kapil Chauhan, a member of the association.PSA Impex was not available for comment.“If the associations refuse the offer then we invite proposals from a new developer who may be interested in delivering the same,” Kumar UP-Rera.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-homebuyers-association-to-take-over-finish-delayed-flats/story-HfVNlO6eajAmCqxrJTUziO.html
27-07-2020||Noida||Noida expedites work on infrastructure projects||The Noida authority is racing against the time to finish ongoing infrastructure projects following the UP government directive that no project should miss the respective deadlines. The authority’s chief executive officer Ritu Maheshwari has directed the staff to expedite the work on several projects such as the 4.5-km Bhangel road being built above Dadri road, 5.5-km Chilla elevated road, sector 71/51 underpass, an alternative route to Dadri road, cleaning of vacant plots and other works. “We have conducted a site inspection for many ongoing projects to ensure delivery within stipulated deadline. We have completed the piling work of 63 pillars on Bhangel elevated road and alternative route to Dadri road will be ready in a week’s time for the motorists,” said Rajeev Tyagi chief engineer of the Noida authority. As per the authority’s plan, the ₹468 crore Bhangel elevated is to be completed by December 2021. While the Covid-19 pandemic and the ensuing lockdown did affect the project, work is now at full swing at the site. Due to the construction work on this project, traffic snarls at Dadri road is common. To mitigate this, the authority decided to build two alternative routes in a week’s time- a 1.250-km link sector 110 to sector 107 T-point and 680-m connection from Gheja village to Bhangel village. “The tenders on these two roads were already done and the work has been expedited. Besides, we are desilting drains along these two roads to address water logging issues,” said Tyagi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-expedites-work-on-infrastructure-projects/story-RIlIxZ5OP1k8GLoeHZ35CK.html
27-07-2020||Lifestyle||Covid-19: Animal lovers come together to save strays from accidents, make reflective collars at home||A group of animal lovers in Dehradun has come together to save strays from road accidents at night by pooling in money and making reflective collars at home to be put on stray animals. The group has also been supplying these collars to different parts of the country after taking orders through social media platforms. The initiative, a brainchild of Mugdha Khatri, a 21-year-old girl thought about making the reflective collars at home during lockdown after seeing stray animals getting injured in road accidents at night. An animal lover since childhood, she lost her job amid the pandemic and at present has been dedicating her time to rescue injured stray animals and taking care of them across the city. “As an animal lover, I have been rescuing stray animals or taking care of them by giving them food and medicines. This is when I observed that many stray animals get injured in road accidents at night as commuters are unable to see them while driving. It was then I thought about putting reflective collars on their neck so that the drivers could spot them from a distance and don’t hit them which might also lead to human loss of life or injury sometimes,” said Mugdha. She discussed the idea with her friend and fellow animal lover, Iram Naaz, who now helps her by stitching the collars at her home. “We both thought of buying the collars from the market but we found them costlier in comparison to the quality of the product. My friends suggested that we should make these at home. Once we researched more on how to make these collars at home, we bought the material initially from our own pocket. As we both are not earning at present, we decided to seek financial aid from others on social media. Mayank Maithani, Inderjit and Vidhi, the others in our group, came forward and helped us financially,” she said. Mugdha used the funds to buy reflective tapes, buckles and collars and started making the reflective collars at home. “It has been about a month since we started this initiative. We have made reflective collars for dogs, mules and cows on roads,” she said. Her group member and fellow animal lover Mayank said that they are also selling the home-made collars to animal lovers in all parts of the country. “Ours is not a business model but an initiative to help the strays. Hence we are selling the collars at Rs 50 against the cost of Rs 40. The profit earned is being used by us in buying medicines, food and other things for taking care of the stray animals,” said Mayank. “We have started selling the collars after taking the orders on social media. In the last two days we have got orders from Delhi, Chennai, Hyderabad, Coimbatore, Indore, and other cities. We will continue this noble initiative and take care of the stray animals,” he adds. Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/covid-19-animal-lovers-come-together-to-save-strays-from-accidents-make-reflective-collars-at-home/story-r0sWPmtDVbvD4P94AP068J.html
27-07-2020||Pune||BJP, allies to milk producers’ demands with state-wide agitation||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), along with its allies, the Rayat Kranti Party (RKP), the Republican Party (Athawale faction), the Rashtriya Samaj Paksha (RSP) and Shiv Sangram, will stage a state-wide agitation on August 1 to press for higher rates for milk producers. The decision was taken in Sunday’s “Mahayuti’ alliance meeting, according to BJP state general secretary Sujit Singh Thakur. The meeting was attended by BJP state president Chandrakant Patil, leader of opposition in the assembly Devendra Fadnavis, Mahadev Jankar, Sadabhau Khot, Vinayak Mete, Avinash Mahatekar, BJP Kisan Morcha state president Anil Bonde and others.Earlier, the party and allies agitated on July 21 to draw attention to the various demands of milk producers. However, the BJP leader said that since the state government has not accepted demands, they are planning to intensify the agitation from August 1. According to Thakur, due to the declining demand during the lockdown, milk producers are facing a huge crisis. The price of milk has fallen by Rs 16 as hotels and other businesses have stopped making purchases. “There is a situation where even the cost of production is not recovered due to the decline in demand. The state government had announced that milk will be purchased at Rs 25 per litre. However, government milk is being procured only from certain milk unions,” Thakur claimed. “Injustice is being done to other milk producers across the state. In such a situation a subsidy of Rs 10 per litre should be directly credited in the bank accounts of milk-producing farmers. A further subsidy of Rs 50 per kg for export of milk powder should be given, so also a procurement price of Rs. 30 per litre for cow’s milk,” said Thakur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/bjp-allies-to-milk-producers-demands-with-state-wide-agitation/story-bkkCQVceUpZsU8cdtNabNJ.html
27-07-2020||Pune||Housing society in Wakad in Pimpri-Chinchwad sets up in-house quarantine facility||A housing society in Wakad, Pimpri-Chinchwad has set up its own isolation facility after six members of the society tested positive for the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection.Vedanta Co-operative housing society, which has 344 flats and a population of 2,000 people uses the clubhouse and vacant flats as the quarantine facility. The facility has oxygen cylinder, pulse oximeter, thermal gun, bed, bedding, food arrangement and others.“There will be obstacles, but with hard work, and working towards a healthy atmosphere among the members, there are no limits,” said SB Dhonde, chairman, Vedanta Co-operative housing society.“While setting up the in-house isolation facility we also have to take care that the other members of the society are safe,” said Dhonde.Committee members have procured and distributed masks, gloves and face shields for all the society guards, house-keeping staff and other support staff to ensure that they stay safe while they continue to provide services.The support staff consists of 12 security guards and 12 housekeeping personnel who were paid a bonus of Rs 1,200 each during the recent lockdown.“We requested members who have vacant flats if they could allow them to be used for isolation of patients,” said Dhonde.Swaraj Kalate is one of the investors in the society, who came forward and extended his support by giving two of his vacant flats to be turned into the quarantined centre, while the other society members take turns to serve meals to the patients and family members.“One of the key requirements from a medical readiness perspective was to have an oxygen cylinder available in case of emergency. We approached the builder Vinod Chandwani who supported by providing three oxygen cylinders for emergencies while a doctor within the society is on stand by when required,” added Dhonde.One of the patients at the society who tested positive for the virus said, “I tested positive along with my parents who are senior citizens, while my wife and my two children, six-month-old and 6six-year-old old tested negative. There was no one at home to take care of my wife during the lockdown, when society came forward to provide her meals, with each society member taking turns to offer us cooked meals even now.”Dr Sunita Engineer, senior medical incharge, Thergaon Hospital (D and G Ward), said, “This is a good initiative taken by the housing society. We are always there to guide such initiatives. Every housing society must provide such facility which will give timely help to asymptomatic patients and help the civic body which is struggling with a shortage of beds.”Dr Prasad Jawak, a resident of Vedanta Society, said, “I am a general practitioner and have a clinic at Rahatne. I am on stand by in case of emergencies at the quarantine unit, although all the patients are on a regular video conference with their respective doctors form Jehangir and Sahaydri hospitals.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/housing-society-in-wakad-sets-up-in-house-quarantine-facility/story-BW9Ah0xBkbTRhaXsUc1tjP.html
27-07-2020||Pune||300 nursing staff stage protest at Jehangir Hospital for better working conditions, pay||Amid the Covid-19 crisis at least 300 nursing staff of Jehangir Hospital staged a protest outside the premises against the hospital authorities, on Sunday.The staffers alleged that they were being forced to work for 12 hours daily without any break and complained about low salary and holiday cuts.The protest took place under the banner of United Nurses Association, Maharashtra State Chapter led by its North Maharashtra president Ajay Marathe.The association has demanded higher wages and better working conditions.Pratisha Kuberji, a nurse, said, “We have been demanding a hike in salary since last December, but there has been no response from the hospital authorities. Yesterday, they threatened to terminate our service and said that we will force you to resign.”“Also, there are some of us who wanted to leave due to personal issues and had resigned, but their resignations have not been accepted,” she said.“The nurses have been left in the lurch by the hospital management which is denying them the benefits of higher pay and better facilities as required by the law. During Covid crisis, the nurses are being forced to work for hours at a stretch without any breaks,” said Marathe.“They have not been given Covid allowance and their current salary ranges between Rs 12,000- Rs 15,000. Each of the nurses is looking after as many as 15 patients,” said Marathe.According to him, the nurses wanted to air their grievances but management has flatly refused.“During the strike, the nurses have ensured that none of the emergency services of the hospital has been affected. They held the protest by adhering to all social distancing rules and directives of the health department,” he said.When contacted, Jehangir Hospital public relations officer Aarti Irani said, “Due to the current pandemic, the hospital currently is in no position to give any salary increments. Hospital is regular in giving monthly salary on time without any salary reduction or deferment across the hospital. All the hospitals across the state and country are going through the same hardships and Pune being the current epicentre of the disease, the load on the hospital is very.”“Currently, the hospital is managing around 120 Covid-19 positive patients, 70 other category patients and 120 home quarantine Covid-19 patients. “Jehangir Hospital is committed to offering the best care in this fight of Covid-19 pandemic,” said the management of the hospital.Zahir Shaikh, a male nurse, who hails from Karnataka and is working at the ICU for past one year said, “There are 22 patients in the ICU and the nursing staff is not enough which makes the task difficult. During the current ongoing Covid-19 crisis we are working tirelessly without any appreciation or motivation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/300-nursing-staff-stage-protest-at-jehangir-hospital-for-better-working-conditions-pay/story-DDnYgcsTB2XLqvzKeVnX7N.html
27-07-2020||City||Cremation of Covid-19 victims takes a hit in Ludhiana as waiting list swells||The wait to cremate bodies of Covid-19 victims in Ludhiana is getting painfully longer. With just one electric crematorium bearing the burden of coronavirus deaths in the district, families are being forced to wait for up to three days to cremate their loved ones. The body of Covid-19 patient Sanjeev Nagpal, 49, who died due to non-availability of a ventilator bed on Friday, will be kept in the mortuary for three days before it will be consigned to flames. Manjeet Nagpal, brother of Sanjeev, alleged, “My brother died after the DMCH authorities informed us that there was no ventilator bed available in the hospital. We had decided to perform the cremation on Saturday, but when we reached the crematorium, we were told to wait till Monday.” “There are nearly 12 Covid-19 victims who are yet to be cremated,” said Ranjodh Singh, president of Ramgarhia Educational Trust, that is managing the crematorium located opposite to military complex at Dholewal. The cremation ground is dedicated to cremate bodies of coronavirus victims. “As per the Covid protocol, we can perform a maximum of four cremations a day. The authorities have shared a list of 12 victims, both from the district as well as outside the district, who have succumbed to the virus in the last couple of days. This has forced families to wait for up to three days to cremate their loved ones,” said Ranjodh. He said that neighbouring districts of Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur, Sangrur and Faridkot were also diverting cremations to the Ramgarhia crematorium. He said that the trust had so far cremated 69 Covid-19 victims. It was in April when Ranjodh had offered to cremate a Covid-19 victim after his kin had refused to perform the last rites.The Ramgarhia Educational Trust had spared one LPG crematorium for this purpose. “As the number of deaths is on the rise, we are planning to open another LPG operated chamber to speed up the cremation process,” said Ranjodh.Covid-19 fear driving people awaySince the crematorium is bearing the burden of coronavirus deaths, residents have stopped bringing bodies of their loved ones who died in accidents or due to any ailment.Some priests performing the last rites have been staying away from their families to keep them safe. “I am avoiding to visit home ever since I started performing the last rites. Sadly, the administration is not paying heed to our plight. We have not been provided prophylactic (preventive) treatment or an insurance cover,” said Pankaj, one of the priests here. Ranjodh said he had requested the authorities to provide an insurance cover to his four employees.Victims’ families refuse to collect ashes after last ritesRanjodh said that families of some coronavirus victims had not returned to the crematorium after the final rites to collect the ashes of their loved ones. “The ashes of 40 patients have not been collected by their families,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cremation-of-covid-19-victims-takes-a-hit-in-ludhiana-as-waiting-list-swells/story-5rIG49nDZ5iahzalTnWcZI.html
