28-07-2020||City||Kalyan hospital loses Covid status, registration suspended for overcharging patients||The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) cancelled the recognition of A and G Hospital in Murbad Road, as a Covid hospital and suspended its registration till August 31 for overcharging Covid patients ₹9.36 lakh, and other irregularities. “This particular hospital had been given permission to treat Covid patients by the civic body. We have received numerous complaints about overcharging. Our flying squad and auditor that looks after the bills of private hospitals found irregularities in the bills as most patients were overcharged,” said Vinay Kulkarni, in-charge, KDMC’s flying squad.“Under the norms of the Bombay Nursing Homes Registration Act, 1949, the registration of the hospital has been suspended till August 31 or till they return ₹9.36 lakh to the patients and follow all norms. Permission to treat Covid patients has been terminated. The hospital will not admit any new Covid or non-Covid patients. There are 35 patients admitted there who will be treated and discharged under the inspection of a medical officer appointed by us,” added Kulkarni. As per the civic body’s findings, the 35-bed hospital has been charging patients above the rates fixed by the state government. In the 19 bills audited by the flying squad, ₹9.36 lakh was charged in excess. The hospital had charged above MRP for Tocilizumab injections, and a bill for the same was not provided to the patient. It also sold a ‘Covid package’ worth ₹12,000. “The hospital failed to update the list of beds available for Covid patients online despite several warnings. They have not maintained a separate registration for 80% of beds meant for Covid patients,” said Kulkarni. The civic body had also served a show-cause notice to the hospital on July 7, asking for a reply by July 17. However, no explanation was provided by the hospital. Ganesh Pawar, owner of A and G Hospital, said, “We are trying to understand the situation, especially when we are working under a lot of pressure, dealing with Covid patients on a daily basis. Whatever explanation we had given to the civic body was through letters. We will also try to talk to them personally.” He, however, refused to comment on overcharging patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-hospital-loses-covid-status-registration-suspended-for-overcharging-patients/story-BlEsfzq9FkxRl8BbvFdLwK.html
28-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab-origin politician Pritam Singh is Singapore’s first leader of opposition||Indian-origin politician Pritam Singh was on Tuesday designated as the LEADER OF THE OPPOSITION in Singapore, the first such appointment in the history of the city-state.The 43-year old Singh’s Workers’ Party won 10 parliamentary seats out of the 93 contested in the July 10 general elections held, making it the biggest opposition presence in Singapore’s Parliament.Singh is the secretary-general of Workers’ Party. Singapore’s legislatures have never had formally designated leaders of the opposition, and such a position is not provided for in the Constitution or the standing orders of parliament,” the parliamentary offices said in its statement on Tuesday.“Singapore’s legislatures have never had formal leaders of the opposition, not even in the 1950s and early 1960s when there were substantial numbers of opposition legislative assemblymen,” the Channel News Asia quoted the statement as saying.Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong’s ruling People’s Action Party won 83 seats in the general elections and his government was sworn in on Monday.Singh will take on more duties and be accorded additional privileges in his role as the leader of the opposition, authorities said on Tuesday in a statement, laying out the details of the new post.“Similar to other Westminster parliamentary systems, Singh will lead the opposition in presenting alternative views in parliamentary debates on policies, bills and motions,” said the office of the speaker of parliament and office of the leader of the House in a joint statement.He will also lead and organise the scrutiny of the government’s positions and actions in Parliament, and be consulted on the appointment of opposition members to Select Committees, such as the Public Accounts Committee.Singh, who is also a lawyer, will receive an annual package of 385,000 Singapore dollars (over Rs 2 crore) as allowances for his new role.Prime Minister Lee said on July 11 that Singh will be designated the leader of the opposition.After his swearing-in on Monday, Lee said that the election results have shown a strong desire among Singaporeans for a greater diversity of views in politics and that the trend is here to stay.“We have to give expression to it and evolve our political system to accommodate it while maintaining our cohesion and sense of national purpose,” said Lee.“As with any new political appointment, the role of the LO (Leader of the Opposition) will evolve as our political system develops,” the statement from Parliament said.“We look forward to working with the LO to create a robust but stable political system serving the interests of Singapore and Singaporeans,” it said.The statement added that these duties and privileges have been conveyed to Singh, and the Leader of the House will make a statement in Parliament to formally set out these terms.Singapore’s 14th Parliament will have its first sitting on August 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-origin-politician-pritam-singh-is-singapore-s-first-leader-of-opposition/story-Xo1zUkrOFeiwaXupm5a1PL.html
28-07-2020||Gurugram||PM2.5 exposure reducing lifespan in Gurugram by 8.8 years, finds study||Exposure to PM2.5 — the most prominent pollutant in the city air — is potentially reducing the lifespan of the average citizen in Gurugram by 8.8 years, showed a recently updated study by the University of Chicago’s Energy Policy Institute. However, the interactive report (known as the Air Quality Life Index or AQLI) also showed a reduction in the annual concentration of PM2.5 in Gurugram between 2016 and 2018, leading to a relatively favourable outcome for life expectancy.The AQLI was first published in 2018, using available data till two years prior, i.e. til 2016. Hindustan Times had reported, on November 25, 2018, that the average reduction in life expectancy in Gurugram (due to exposure to PM2.5) was about 8.7 years. However, updated figures released on Tuesday, showed that the reduction in average lifespan at the time of the first publication of the report was, actually 11.6 and not 8.7 years. This when compared to the present estimate of 8.8 years, indicates an improvement in the life expectancy between 2016 and 2018. The AQLI also found a 23% reduction in the annual average concentration of PM2.5 in Gurugram, from 124.7ug/m3 in 2016, to 99.4ug/m3 in 2018. Across Haryana, this figure reduced from 113ug/m3 in 2016 to 91.4ug/m3 in 2018, as per the AQLI. Nationally, too, India recorded a 10.7% reduction in the average annual concentration of PM2.5 pollutants.As per the updated numbers, the national average reduction in lifespan due to PM2.5, according to the AQLI is 5.2 years for every Indian, while across Haryana the reduction in life expectancy is eight years.“The AQLI converts particulate air pollution into perhaps the most important metric that exists: its impact on life expectancy,” read a press release issued along with the report. Experts said the report is an advancement from a standard Air Quality Index, which analyses air toxicity, but does not quantify its impact on human health.In the case of Gurugram, an average lifespan reduction of 5.8 years was first calculated as per India’s National Ambient Air Quality Standards, in which the annual average safe level of PM2.5 is 60ug/m3. This number, 5.8 years, also indicates the potential gain in life expectancy if PM2.5 is brought to under 60ug/m3. In other words, Gurugram residents would add 5.8 years to their lives if the national average safe level of PM2.5 is maintained.However, according to international standards prescribed by the World Health Organization (WHO), life expectancy in Gurugram district has more accurately reduced by 8.8 years, the AQLI suggests. Therefore, if PM2.5 was brought to a level under 10ug/m3 (the international safe limit), then citizens could potentially add 8.8 years to their lives.Dr Piyush Goel, a city-based pulmonologist, explained that PM2.5 particles are minute enough to enter the alveoli in human lungs, where the exchange of respiratory gases takes place. “When this alien material, which comes from vehicles, construction and many other sources, enters the alveoli, the body begins to secrete mediating enzymes which cause destruction of lung tissue,” he said. These particles can even be tiny enough to pass through the alveoli and enter the blood stream, from where they get deposited in other organs, making them degenerate prematurely.“On the whole, inhalation of PM2.5 leads to a gradual degeneration of various parts of the body, which results in accelerated aging. This is why we’re seeing younger people having chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder (COPD), heart attacks and similar other ailments,” Dr Goel said, cautioning that citizens should take care and avoid going outdoors when PM2.5 level is high, or equip themselves with appropriate protective gear, such as masks, when doing so.Niranjan Raje, a city-based air quality expert and former member of the Supreme Court-appointed Environmental Pollution (Prevention & Control), said, “I cannot confirm the efficacy of the findings, as I am unaware of the methodology or the assumptions made in correlating PM2.5 data with life expectancy. However, India has taken several steps towards reducing particulate matter pollution in the past two years, by launching the National Clean Air Programme and enforcing Bharat Stage-6 emission norms for vehicles. If there has been an improvement, that’s a good sign. But a reduction of 8.8 years life span per person, on average, is akin to a public health crisis and means that there is a lot more work to be done.”“Though the threat of coronavirus is grave and deserves every bit of the attention it is receiving — perhaps more in some places — embracing the seriousness of air pollution with a similar vigor would allow billions of people around the world to lead longer and healthier lives (sic),” Michael Greenstone, one of the authors of the report, from the Energy Policy Institute at the University of Chicago said in a statement.“The reality is, no shot in the arm will alleviate air pollution. For a country like India, the solution lies in robust public policy. The AQLI tells citizens and policymakers how particulate pollution is affecting them and their communities, and can be used to measure the benefits of policies to reduce pollution,” Greenstone said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/pm2-5-exposure-reducing-lifespan-in-gurugram-by-8-8-years-finds-study/story-rWFA1zinCvpORUOPyr6DhK.html
28-07-2020||City||Gurugram: Four Iraqi nationals arrested for smuggling Covid-19 and cancer medicines||Gurugram Haryana drug control authorities, along with local police, have busted an international drug racket and arrested four Iraqi nationals for allegedly smuggling Covid-19 and cancer treatment medicines to Iraq. The suspects were nabbed on Monday night from two different locations in Gurugram and medicines worth ₹45 lakh and more than ₹75 lakh in cash were recovered from them, the police said.Forty eight vials of remdesivir, 55 strips of Fabiflu (favipiravir) and 18 packs of Lopikast -- the three medicines used in the treatment of Covid-19 patients -- were among a huge cache of medicines seized during two separate raids in sectors 47 and 57 lasting over eight hours, the police said. Apart from drug control department authorities and local police, officials of CM flying squad and crime branch were part of the raiding team. The total value of seized medicines is estimated to be over ₹45 lakh in India, which is worth several crores of rupees in the black market, said police officials. The officials said that the suspects, who have been staying in the city for several years allegedly on expired visas, used to hoard the medicines using local contacts and then smuggle them to Iraq where one 100mg vial of remdesivir, which costs ₹5,400 in India, is sold at an exorbitant price of over ₹1 lakh. The suspects enlisted medical tourism patients or students who were visiting India, often paying for their air fare, and used them as a conduit to smuggle medicines to Iraq. “Prima facie, it appears that they used to source medicines from two local contacts and then send the consignment to Iraq through patients, who came to the city for treatment. Their aide would collect the medicines and drugs at the airport in Iraq. The recovered batch of medicines was scheduled to make its way to Iraq on a recent flight, which was grounded, and hence such a large inventory was found from their possession,” said Chander Mohan, deputy commissioner of police (east). “We are also tracing the two local suppliers, and trying to ascertain how they were able to source drugs used to treat Covid-19 since they are in short supply,” Mohan said. The police said that they were probing if the suspects had a nexus with medicine distributors, health care professionals, chemists and hospitals. Amandeep Chauhan, drugs control officer, Gurugram, said, “The suspects said that Fabiflu, which costs ₹2,500 per strip in India, is sold in Iraq at ₹7,500 per strip. Lopikast, whose one bottle containing 30 tablets costs around ₹3,000 in India, is sold at ₹15,000 per bottle there.” Remdesivir is an experimental drug administered to Covid-19 patients in emergency situations, as per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines. It is an injectable drug only given to Covid-19 patients who are moderate to severely ill, especially those who are fresh admission to the intensive care unit (ICU). The drug is in short supply compared to its high demand across the country, the officials said. Remdesivir is manufactured by USA-based Gilead Sciences. In India, the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) granted the permission to manufacture and market the drugs to Hetro, Cipla and Mylan. The officials said that in Gurugram, currently 60 vials manufactured by Cipla and 20 by Hetro are available in five multispecialty hospitals where patients infected with SARS-CoV-2 virus are undergoing treatment. On July 6, the enforcement division of CDSCO had directed all state drug controllers to ensure that remdesivir is not sold illegally after they received complaints regarding black marketing and over pricing of the drug. With the possibility of hoarding and black marketing of the drug, the district drug control department was on high vigil. The other two antiviral medicines, Fabiflu and Lopikast that were seized, are oral medicines easily available at pharmacies. Fabiflu is a 200mg tablet used to treat mild to moderate coronavirus cases. RAIDS AND ARRESTS Acting on a tip-off, the first raid was conducted at a condominium in Sector 57, where two Iraqi nationals -- identified as Akram Faiz (21) from Baghdad and Aws Raad Nealmah Al Hendi (31), a BCA graduate -- were arrested. A large amount of medicines worth ₹30 lakh and ₹35.5 lakh in cash were seized from the house. The police said that Faiz and Al Hendi had come from Iraq to Pune on a student visa in 2013 and arrived in Gurugram in 2016, following which they started hoarding and smuggling medicines to Iraq. After their visas expired, they acquired ‘refugee’ status, they said. In the second raid at a house in Sector 47, two Iraqi nationals from Baghdad, Mohanad (26) and Othmana (27), were arrested. They told the police that they had come to India in 2017 for study and later got into black marketing of medicines. Both are currently enrolled in a pharmacy course in Bengaluru, said the police. The police have also seized an SUV in the second raid in which some Covid-19 medicines and ₹39.05 lakh in cash were recovered. A police official, who was part of the raid in Sector 57, requesting anonymity, said, “The suspects worked as translators earlier and took to smuggling medicines for money. They had a database of foreign nationals coming to Gurugram for medical tourism. One of the suspects, well versed in Hindi, said that they used to source medicines from two contacts. Some of the medicines were smuggled through flights, hidden in chess boards. Two of the suspects had studied pharmacy, so they had contacts in the supply chain and had knowledge of the medicine sector. ”Two separate FIRs were registered on Tuesday at Sector 56 police station and Sadar police station. None of the suspects had valid licences to stock the medicines or relevant record for their scientific or medical use or sale/purchase record of the recovered medicines, the police said. A woman from Uzbekistan was also detained from the Sector 47 house. According to the police, during questioning, the woman said that she had come to Gurugram in January this year but could not return due to the lockdown and subsequent closure of flights. The police said her role is being probed, and they have written to the embassy concerned to verify her documents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-four-iraqi-nationals-arrested-for-smuggling-covid-19-and-cancer-medicines/story-xlVb4rppsXBnWGSSzhtxKO.html
28-07-2020||Gurugram||Three buildings partially demolished in a disputed area around IAF ammunition depot in Sector 14||Three large buildings falling within the 900-metre disputed area around the Indian Air Force (IAF) ammunition depot in Sector 14 were partially demolished by a joint team of the department of town and country planning (DTCP) and the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) on Tuesday. The demolition drive was met with stiff resistance from the local residents and the owners of these buildings. However, the police personnel present at the spot managed to push back the protesting demonstrators and carry on with the drive. Officials of the civic agencies said that these buildings had come up illegally in the disputed area, where according to a Supreme Court directive issued in 2012 all new constructions that come up in that area will be deemed illegal. The demolition was carried out in three areas, namely Ashok Vihar, Dharm Colony and Noble Enclave, by the joint team led by district town planner RS Bhath and MCG joint commissioner Gaurav Antil. They were assisted by a police team of around 500 personnel. The demolition team allegedly witnessed a strong resistance in Ashok Vihar Phase-3, where residents led by local Congress leader Gaje Singh Kablana — whose wife happens to be the deputy mayor of MCG — opposed the demolition, alleging that it was politically motivated and that the drive specifically targeted him. It took the joint team of officials around two hours to convince the protesters that the building under question was illegally built. Protesting against the demolition, Kablana said that no notice had been served by the departments concerned and around 150 persons are living in the building in Ashok Vihar Phase-3. “There are over a lakh of such structures in 900-metre area but only one building has been targeted as it belongs to my family. We will take up this matter in the court and fight the battle legally,” he said. RS Bhath, district town planner said that partial demolition has been carried and the owner of the building in Ashok Vihar Phase-3 has been given time to remove household items as people were found to be living there. “All under-construction buildings in the area will face demolition as it is illegal to construct a residential building within the 900-metre area of the ammunition depot,” he added. Reacting to Kablana’s allegations, Gaurav Antil, joint commissioner, MCG, said, the due process of law has been followed in carrying out the demolition drive. “Questions are often raised during such drives by violators to purchase time. However, all norms have been followed and action has been taken as per the law,” he said. The enforcement team later demolished two similar multi-storey buildings in Dharm Colony and Noble Enclave, both of which fell within the 900-metre disputed area. Police personnel from different police stations, including Udyog Vihar, Palam Vihar, Sector 5, Bajghera, were deployed as a part of the drive. Jitender Gahlawat, ACP, Udyog Vihar, said that adequate police force was deployed to carry out the demolition drive. “There was some resistance shown by locals but we managed to keep the situation under control,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/three-buildings-partially-demolished-in-a-disputed-area-around-iaf-ammunition-depot-in-sector-14/story-3QzU6hHy7NX7J0w42hN8PJ.html
28-07-2020||Gurugram||Domestic help, her family arrested for robbing valuables worth ₹20 lakh||The Faridabad Police arrested three members of a family, including a woman, from Sector 80 on charges of robbery. According to the police, the woman had allegedly posed as a domestic help and laced her employers’ food with sedatives at their house in Sector 9 in Faridabad and robbed them of valuables and cash worth ₹20 lakh on July 14, said the police. The police said the gang was involved in several robberies in Delhi, Faridabad, Gurugram, Noida and Palwal and followed the same modus operandi. The police said the woman started working as a full-time household help of the family in May this year. The suspect had approached the family through another domestic help and planned to rob them in connivance with her husband and her son. Inderjeet Singh, a resident of Sector 9, approached police on July 15 and complained that their domestic help had robbed them of jewellery worth ₹18 lakh and ₹1.20 lakh in cash, following which a case was registered, said the police. The police said Singh is a businessman and lives with his wife, son and a daughter in a double-storey house. He was looking for a full-time domestic help and had called a number of people for reference. “We hired her in May and she worked well. Her responsibility was to cook and clean the house. On July 14, she served us dinner, after which we all fell unconscious,” said Singh. When the family got up the next morning, they found all the doors and the cupboard open. When Singh went on to check on his children in another room, he found them lying unconscious. He rushed them to a private hospital, where doctors conducted tests and informed him that their food was laced with sedatives. However, they were out of danger. Like Singh, his wife also got up on her own and required no medical assistance, the police said. Police commissioner OP Singh said that they formed investigation teams as soon as they received the complaint. We took the help of a cybercrime cell and put the suspect’s numbers on technical surveillance. “The woman had involved her son and husband in the incident. As soon as the family fell unconscious on the night of July 14, the suspect called them to Faridabad from Delhi. Together, they carried out the robbery,” he said. The police also roped in secret informers, who told them that the suspects had changed three locations within four days after robbing the family and would be visiting Pahladpur in Sector 80 on Monday. The police surrounded the area and arrested all three of them. “ We have recovered all the jewellery and ₹50,000 from their possession. The remaining money is yet to be recovered,” said Singh. The suspects were identified as Anjali Kumar, Vijay Kumar and Rajesh Kumar of Odisha, who lived in a rented accommodation Sangam Vihar in Delhi. The police said they would start an awareness drive to get verification of tenants and servants done to avoid any untoward incidents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/domestic-help-her-family-arrested-for-robbing-valuables-worth-20-lakh/story-3WO0a8lKeAu9aDW2Go29wJ.html
28-07-2020||Gurugram||Summer vacation ends, teachers back in school even as Covid crisis looms||Government school teachers and administrative staff resumed work in schools across the district on Monday, after almost a month of summer vacation. The state government had declared summer vacations for schools from July 1 till July 26. With Covid-19 cases emerging in some schools last month, many teachers had applied for leave while the teachers’ union had requested that teachers are allowed to work from home. After they reopened on Monday, attendance in schools has improved with most teachers reporting back to work and carrying out admission formalities. Suman Sharma, principal of Government Model Senior Secondary School in Sector 4/7, Urban Estate, said that most teachers were back to school and carrying out the admission formalities that need to be completed before the end of the month. “Barring a handful of teachers, most are back. Teachers are now more mentally prepared about carrying out work as before. We are trying to ensure that each teacher has their own separate classroom to work from in the school,” said Sharma. Asha Miglani, principal of Government Model Sanskriti Senior Secondary School, sector 43, said that teachers were back at work and busy with the admission process and maintenance of monthly records. “Our hands are full and with so much work that we cannot afford to miss school anymore. Teachers are bound to report to school and comply with government rules. There has been an uptick in admission applications since the declaration of board results and teachers are busy processing that,” said Miglani. She added that the school was being sanitised on a daily basis as a preventive measure. “Besides regular sanitisation, we are taking all efforts to ensure that physical distancing is maintained. These measures have helped to quell concerns which teachers might have had. We are seeing full attendance since the school reopened after vacations,” said Miglani. Manju Bala Bhardwaj, an English teacher at a government school, said that teachers were adopting precautions and reporting to work, as per the directive issued by the department. “The department has asked all teachers to be back at work and complete various tasks ranging from maintenance of records to carrying out admission formalities. We will be taking classes along with doing official paperwork,” said Bhardwaj. Geeta Arya, principal, Government Boys’ Senior Secondary School, said that while teachers with underlying health conditions and chronic illnesses had been given a reprieve from visiting schools in person before the vacations, there was no clarity if the relaxations would continue now. “Right now, we are not sure about the guidelines in place and if the relaxations continue to be in effect. While we await a written directive, some teachers continue to be on leave either due to health concerns or because they live in containment zones. Most others are back to work,” said Arya. District education officer Indu Boken, however, said that as per guidelines shared by the Central government, pregnant women, people with disabilities and those with comorbid conditions were exempt from coming to work. “The guidelines shared by the MHRD earlier have not been withdrawn. We will continue to abide by the guidelines unless there is another new development. The message will be communicated to those teachers, who are not aware,” said Boken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/summer-vacation-ends-teachers-back-in-school-even-as-covid-crisis-looms/story-LAAvt172TUpn1nKqy08VUP.html
28-07-2020||Delhi||HC pulls up DU for lack of preparation regarding exams for differently abled students||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday pulled up the Delhi University for its lack of preparation and facilities, including the arrangement of scribes and CSE Centres, for differently abled students to facilitate them to appear in the Open Book Examinations (OBE) for final-year undergraduate courses.“This is how you are concerned about the career of differently abled students who have to appear for final-year exams. We are aware of the challenge to UGC guidelines that is before the Supreme Court. But we will surely ask questions about your preparation for the exams,” a bench comprising justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad said.“I am sure DU is cognisant of the fact that the career of students is at stake, how can you be so slow,” Justice Kohli asked the university.The court sought to know how many students in the Persons with Disabilities (PwD) category have applied to take exams through Common Service (CSE) Centers, which have been set up to provide services to students who do not have the infrastructure to attend OBE.The counsel appearing for the University said he would require time to get the details.The court was hearing a plea by a law student Prateek Sharma and the National Federation of Blind through a senior advocate SK Rungta seeking to set up effective mechanisms for visually impaired and specially abled students so that educational instructions can be imparted to them properly via the online mode of teaching during the Covid-19 pandemic.Appearing for one of the petitioners, senior advocate Rungta told the court that about 200 students could not appear for the mock test because of lack of assisting devices, reading material and scribes. He said when colleges were informed about the need for writing scribes, one of the principals said they could not provide them without knowing the health status of the student during the pandemic.The high court sought to know whether the claim of petitioners was true while noting that the Ministry of Human Resource Development and the Ministry of Electronics and Technology were earlier directed to file affidavits about the CSE centres and their preparation, including the availability of scribes.“However, the affidavit filed by the Ministry of Electronics and Technology is silent on the number of non-functional CSE centres”, the bench said, adding that the issue of absence of infrastructure at the centres is yet to be addressed. It said despite directions, DU has not filed its affidavit in the matter and sought time to do so.“It is important for us to know that if the students who have asked for scribes will be able to interact with them two days before the exams,” the bench said while noting the submission of senior advocate Kapil Sibal, who appeared for Sharma, that as per the varsity’s guidelines, scribes will be given to the students before the exams to check for suitability.The high court asked the representative of CSE Academy, which has an agreement with DU to help the varsity in conducting the OBE, to be present before it on July 30, to know how many CSE centres across the country are situated in metropolitan and rural areas.It also sought to know that out of 2,75 lakh students who have applied for OBE, how many have asked for the services of CSE centres and how many reside in remote places.DU’s professor Anil Aneja, who handles the issues of PwD students at DU, said that students had to buy assistant devices on their own but they have not received any request for reimbursements.The matter will be now heard on July 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hc-pulls-up-du-for-lack-of-preparation-regarding-exams-for-differently-abled-students/story-cF8crrC7PYchSsd1NhiP7O.html
28-07-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram civic body goes on war mode to reserve beds for Covid patients||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has set itself a grand aim to tide through the current Covid pandemic — to keep at least 6,000 beds ready for accommodating virus-infected patients.Working towards this goal, the MCG is assisting resident welfare associations (RWAs) in setting up isolation centres within their areas, building centres of its own, and reaching out to owners of hotels, guest houses, PGs, banquet halls, educational institutions, and religious and charitable institutions to persuade them to lend their buildings for setting-up temporary isolation centres.Surender Singh, additional commissioner, MCG said that the civic body has made arrangements to ensure the city has “sufficient” number of beds ready, in the eventuality, that there is a sudden spike in cases.“Besides having around 1,500 beds located in isolation centres of residential areas, by August 1, we will have at least 4,700 beds on standby. Around 3,500 of these have been arranged in hotels, while 1,200 beds have been arranged in government guest houses and buildings. Currently, the occupancy of beds in hospitals is very low and we believe that the existing arrangement is more than sufficient. However, apart from these 6,000 beds, we have also made preparations in advance and collected requisite information for quickly converting banquet halls, PGs, guest houses, hostels, and educational institutions into isolation centres if beds in hotels, government guest houses and buildings start running low,” said the additional commissioner.He further said that the MCG presently does not have any “fixed-target” with regard to the total number of beds needed for Covid-19 patients and is making arrangements according to the existing needs.At present, across 45 public and private hospitals in the city, the district administration has reserved 1,486 hospitals for Covid-19 patients. These include 192 beds in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU), 92 beds with ventilator support system, while the remaining are general isolation ward beds.Till July 23, only 335 — or around 22% — of the total 1,486 Covid-19 beds were occupied.Isolation centres with RWAs As cases of coronavirus in Gurugram started to surge in early June, MCG officials reached out to RWAs for setting up isolation centres in their own vicinity.Between May 31 and June 11, the total number of virus cases in the district saw an increase by at least four times, from 774 to 2,737 cases. The total number of fatalities during the same period saw a six-fold increase from three to 19.In a nutshell, an isolation centre in a residential area can be as basic as a vacant apartment where each bedroom has two beds, with an attached bathroom, while the hall has basic medical equipment such as oxygen cylinders, oxymetres, thermometer, BP machine, IV drip, and a variety of vitamin, fever, and cough tablets.The same equipment and facility could also be set up in the local community centre, clubhouse, vacant in-house playschool, or the RWA’s empty office space which will have spaces to accommodate more beds.MCG officials said that so far at least 25 RWAs have set up such facilities and cumulatively have around 1,500 beds ready.Civic body officials claimed that their purpose was not only to reduce the load on hospitals, but to also create the “first layer of treatment” or “segregation” for Covid-19 patients.The official SOP issued for RWAs, titled the “Guiding document for creating local isolation centres (Covid Care Centres)” states that the purpose of creating such an infrastructure is to separate asymptomatic and mild Covid-19 patients from the community, monitoring them to see if they develop more serious symptoms of Covid-19, and accordingly provide them with preventive care.“As per the guidelines listed in the SOP, we have set up an isolation centre in our society last month, which has provisions of accommodating six residents at any given time. We have kept one more apartment empty to quickly accommodate six more residents if a need arises. Even though we have had 10 cases in our society so far, we haven’t faced an instance yet when a resident needed to avail the facility. Regardless, the option of having one, has assured residents to some extent,” said Puneet Goyal, president, Tulip Violet RWA.The SOP clearly stated that the facility is not for “serious/critical” Covid cases, but should have provisions for giving emergency oxygen therapy to a patient.“The rationale behind creating isolation centres within residential areas was to ensure that mild and asymptomatic cases do not need to go to hospitals and occupy beds. Instead, if they didn’t have adequate space to self isolate within their homes, they have the option of using the isolation centres within their residential area. The biggest advantage of this was that the health centres could focus on severe cases and give such patients adequate care,while the mild cases could self isolate and make-do with basic treatment, if needed,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG.In the SOP, MCG has prepared guidelines on the requisite medical equipment, health management, do’s and dont’s for attendants, protocol for transfer to health centres and waste and disinfection management for RWAs to follow.Community Centres Although at a very nascent stage, the MCG is also looking to create another “layer of segregation” for patients by creating isolation centres in sector community centres, where Covid patients who need oxygen support but not ventilators can be kept for treatment.Currently, the MCG is in the process of setting up its first-such infrastructure at a community centre in sector 27 and has already arranged 50 beds for the facility through Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds. At the facility, officials said that over 100 patients can be treated by doctors from the district health department or any volunteer doctors from private hospitals that are IMA recognised.“Between asymptomatic, mild, and severe cases of coronavirus, we wanted to create an extra layer of segregation to help further reduce the load on hospitals. At a few community centres, we are aiming to create facilities that can give treatment to those Covid-19 patients that only need oxygen support. We are aiming to start this in sector 27 on a pilot basis and depending on its success replicate the same in other areas,” said a senior MCG official in its health branch.Back-up isolation centres As a last resort, the MCG is also making preparations for the worst-case scenario where the existing isolation centres in RWAs, community centres, and hospital beds, all run out of space.The civic body has identified at least 1,360 properties, which include banquet halls, clubs, hotels, guest houses, paying guest accommodations, hostels and religious institutions as potential sites for establishing such backup isolation centres, if need be.Using data from its property tax records and with the help of locals RWAs, the MCG has identified 64 banquet halls, 57 clubs, 174 hotels, 321 hostels, PGs, guest houses, and 744 religious and charitable institutions in the city as potential isolation centres.Separately, around 5,000 institutional properties such as schools, universities, and government buildings are also being monitored by the civic corporation as potential sites.Out of the 1,300 such buildings, with the help of RWAs, the MCG is currently in the process of further sub-categorising the properties that meet its demand.“Only those properties that aren’t located in congested, narrow lanes, and are situated in secluded spots and have enough space to accommodate more than 30 beds are being considered. We are in the process of further identifying such properties with the assistance of locals RWAs. Once identified, either the RWA or the MCG will approach owners of such establishments for further assessment,” said the MCG additional commissioner.He further said that owners of such establishments — who show interest in leasing their properties for setting-up isolation centres — will be asked to give details such as the total number of beds that can be accommodated in their building, types of entry and exit, the type and number of toilets, water connection, electricity connection, for creating a database.Singh further said that the first stage of segregation has already been done by the MCG and found that 93 of the 174 identified hotels met all the required norms“Our first stage of isolation centres would be in hotels, and then banquets halls. When both these facilities start running out of space, then we will approach owners of other buildings for leasing their infrastructure. We are simply preparing for the worst-case scenarios and are in the process of creating a database which can be used for setting-up isolation centres even at short notice in the future,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-civic-body-goes-on-war-mode-to-reserve-beds-for-covid-patients/story-F5CRbEg20fzvA5m0mShLcM.html
28-07-2020||Chandigarh||Multani disappearance case: Ex-Chandigarh cop arrested, sent to 2-day police remand||A day after two retired inspectors of Chandigarh Police were booked for fabricating evidence in the Multani disappearance case, the Kharar police arrested one of them on Tuesday. The case was registered against Anokh Singh, who has been arrested, and Jagir Singh after they filed a complaint with director generals of police (DGPs) of Punjab and Chandigarh on July 9 against dismissed Punjab Police cop Gurmeet Singh “Pinki”, alleging that they were lured by him to give statement against former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini in the 32-year-old disappearance case of CITCO employee Balwant Singh Multani.A local court has sent Anokh to two-day police remand. The cops were booked under Section 195-A (fabricating evidence) on the complaint of Kharar (sadar) station house officer Sukhvir Singh. In their complaint on July 9, the two ex-cops cited audio recordings to prove that they were lured by Pinki at the behest of chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s political adviser Bharat Inder Singh Chahal to give statement against Saini. Anokh and Jagir claimed that they were invited by Pinki to his farmhouse near Landran on June 3 and 6 where he offered to appoint their children as sub-inspectors in Punjab Police with the help of Chahal. The complainant in this case, Gurmeet Singh Pinki, told the police that both the retired cops were threatening him to change his testimony in the Multani disappearance case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/multani-disappearance-case-ex-chandigarh-cop-arrested-sent-to-2-day-police-remand/story-5xBJnE5fGbCnkiLNoE3xOP.html
28-07-2020||City||Journalist murder: ₹25,000 reward announced on arrest of absconding suspect||Ghaziabad police have obtained a non-bailable warrant (NBW) against an absconding suspect, who was allegedly involved in the murder of journalist Vikram Joshi (35) on July 20.The police have also announced a reward of Rs 25,000 for any information that can lead to the arrest of the Akash Bihari, who is on the run.. The police said that Bihari was part of the group of assailants, who were present at the scene of crime when Joshi was fatally shot at on the fateful night.Joshi , a journalist with a local Hindi newspaper,had been attacked by the assailants near Mata Colony in Ghaziabad’s Vijay Nagar late in the night on July 20, when was going back home on his two-wheeler with his two minor daughters riding pillion. He succumbed to his critical gunshot injuries a day later , with police having arrested nine people till then in connection with his murder. Preliminary investigations had revealed that suspects had a fight with Joshi’s family on July 16. Later, though Joshi’s family members had wanted to file a complaint against the men for allegedly harassing his niece, the police purportedly did not register the first information report (FIR). “Akash Bihari, the 10th suspect in the murder case, is absconding. We have obtained a non-bailable warrant against him and a reward of Rs 25,000 has also been announced. Bihari is on the run since the shooting incident and several teams are trying to trace him. He was present with others at the scene of crime on the night of July 20,” said Manish Mishra, superintendent of police (SP), Ghaziabad city. “An inquiry is underway in the case on the allegations of laxity shown by police,” he added. One of the accused, Shahnoor alias Chotu, had allegedly shot at Joshi from point-blank range. The bullet had gone through Joshi’s head that ultimately led to his death around 4am on July 21. The police filed an FIR for harassment on the day Joshi had succumbed to his injuries and named two persons from the group as accused , along with two others. The Pratap Vihar police post in-charge has been suspended for not registering a complaint that Joshi’s family had wanted to file on July 16. The station house officer (SHO) of Vijay Nagar police station was also shunted to police lines for his alleged lack of supervision in the case that led to Joshi’s murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/journalist-murder-25-000-reward-announced-on-arrest-of-absconding-suspect/story-PYQVcseWTwJFMAnmKJSU4N.html
28-07-2020||Noida||Saplings of rare species planted across eight UP districts, Noida gets its first camphor tree||In a unique drive to celebrate and conserve the biodiversity of the state, saplings of 240 rare species of trees, herbs, shrubs, and bamboo were planted across eight districts on Tuesday. Saplings of 30 such species were planted in Noida. According to the forest department, which led the drive, spalings of miswak and camphor were planted in the city, part from 28 other species, each with medicinal properties and rarely seen. Officials said at least 12 saplings each of over 240 species were planted within an hour across the districts of Gautam Budh Nagar, Meerut, Lucknow, Faizabad, Banda, Chitrakoot, Barabanki and Sitapur. “This is a first-of-its-kind plantation drive in the country and we planted all saplings within one hour to attempt a record. The idea is to promote the biodiversity of the state, which has the geography to sustain a large variety of species. The selection of each species -- be it flowering, ornamental or fruit bearing -- was done in keeping with the environment and geography of each district. Some of the species planted on Tuesday are now rare and we want to conserve and promote them,” Anupam Gupta, chief conservator of forest (CCF) and mission director of the plantation drive, said. He said a world record was also attempted by completing the plantation within an hour, between 10am and 11am, and the timing, the number of saplings and species have been sent to the Guinness Book of World Records for its consideration. In Noida, the plantation drive was led by the district forest department near Yamuna Expressway. “The drive was a success and we also received help from the Botanical Survey of India and the officials of Botanic Garden. Camphor and miswak trees were planted for the first time in the district under the initiative,” Pramod Kumar Srivastava, divisional forest officer, Gautam Budh Nagar, said. He said all the trees were distinct and none of the species planted shared a common mother species. The other rare species planted in Noida included aru, krishna siras, harar, and tun.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/saplings-of-rare-species-planted-across-eight-up-districts-noida-gets-its-first-camphor-tree/story-5Ph9ebjjk9uoKlkSVKRhfO.html
28-07-2020||Noida||Kidnapped two-year-old boy rescued within four hours in Noida||A two-year-old boy was kidnapped from outside his house in Sarfabad village on Tuesday morning by unidentified men, the police said. The boy was rescued from a park within four hours of the kidnapping, and the police are on the lookout for the suspects.The incident was reported to the police around 12.30pm after the infant’ s father had received a call from the suspected kidnappers. In his complaint, the father alleged that the child was playing outside the house in the morning and was last seen around 9.30am. “Afterwards we could not find him anywhere. Around noon, I got a call from an unknown number who said that they had kidnapped my son and were going to kill him,” the father said in his complaint to the police. However, the caller did not ask for a ransom, he said. The family approached the Sector 49 police after getting the call.“The child was rescued from a park in Sector 71 within an hour of getting the complaint. The abductors had fled by the time the child was found. We have a few leads in the case and a search is on for them. They will be nabbed soon,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Sankalp Sharma.Based on the father’s complaint a case of kidnapping under section 364 of the Indian Penal Code was registered.Police officers said that so far the family has not mentioned any dispute or animosity which could be the reason behind the kidnapping. “As the family did receive a call, it seems to be a targeted abduction. We will know more soon,” said Sharma.The child’s father is a landlord and owns agricultural land. The police said they are probing all angles including monetary and property disputes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/kidnapped-two-year-old-boy-rescued-within-four-hours-in-noida/story-FpdyaugD8sJVsCm81Dr3XO.html
28-07-2020||Noida||Noida: Elderly woman found murdered in Sector 15 home||A 70-year-old woman was found murdered in her house in Sector 15 Tuesday, the police said. They added that it appears that the woman, who used to live alone, was strangulated to death.According to the police, the woman’s body was discovered by a family friend, and no signs of forced entry were found at the house.The deceased was identified as Santosh Kumari who lives in a three-storey house in Sector 15 with tenants occupying the ground and second floor. Her two sons live abroad, the police said.“Her younger son was trying to reach her over the phone. When she did not answer his calls, he asked a friend in Delhi to go and check on her. The friend, Kunal (single name), came to her house today (Tuesday) morning and found her dead,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Sankalp Sharma.Police officers said they found out about the incident around 9.30 am. Based on a complaint by the family friend, a case of murder has been registered at the Sector 20 police station and the body has been sent for an autopsy.The friend had found the door of her house open suggesting that she probably knew the murderer and had opened the door for them, the police said.“She was found in the washroom and, prima facie, it seems that she was strangled. However, we will know more about the cause and time of death once the autopsy report is out. A few neighbours said that they had seen the woman in the balcony on Monday around 7pm, however, Kunal told us that she hadn’t answered his calls around 6.45 pm. So we suspect that the incident may have happened around that time only,” the DCP said.The police said they are questioning all people who were in regular contact with the elderly woman.“It has also come to light that she had sold the house she was currently living in February this year. We are looking into that angle also. We have a few leads and are working on them,” said the DCP.The DCP further said that it does not seem to be a case of robbery as most valuables were found intact. “But we cannot be absolutely certain if anything is missing or not. There are no obvious signs of struggle. But the house has been ransacked suggesting that someone may have been looking for something. However, that could be staged to divert attention as well,” said Sharma.“It is a gated community but the security guards, tenants or neighbours have not provided us any concrete clues. We are looking at the CCTV camera footage from the area as well,” he said.A forensic team and the dog squad also visited the crime spot. Five teams are currently working on the case, the police said.44-year-old woman found dead, husband detainedIn another incident, the body of a 44-year-old woman was found by passersby in a field on Tuesday in Mangroli village.The police have detained her husband for questioning in connection with the alleged murder. “The woman was identified as Tara Devi. According to her family members, her husband and she had an argument on Monday night. We have detained him for now and are questioning him,” said Yogesh Malik, station house officer, Expressway police station.The woman had injury marks on her body and was sent for an autopsy to ascertain the cause of death. Police officers said that the husband was a compulsive alcoholic and have murdered her following a domestic dispute.Based on her family’s complaint, a case of murder has been registered, and a probe in the matter is underway.The police suspect that the woman might have been killed on late Monday night itself.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-elderly-woman-found-murdered-in-sector-15-home/story-ncW68qdIl650QHlDgWI28L.html
28-07-2020||Mumbai||Centre’s report on tigers boosts campaign against infra projects||A report released by the Centre on precise details of tiger presence across India has encouraged habitat connectivity and conservation along the Mollem-Netravali corridor in Goa.Highlights of the report give impetus to signature campaigns gaining momentum in Goa and India demanding cancellation of three infrastructure projects. They include the proposed widening of an existing National Highway (NH) 4A, a railway line double-tracking, and construction of power transmission lines through the Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary and Mollem National Park. The projects would lead to the diversion of 185-hectare forest land and roughly 55,000 trees with 35,762 trees within protected areas.Among other campaigns, the ‘Save Mollem National Park, Goa’ citizens’ signature campaign gained momentum with 6,000 citizens opting against the projects. Coordinated by Bengaluru-based digital advocacy organisation, Jhatkaa.org, the campaign is addressed to the member secretary of the Supreme Court constituted Central Empowerment Committee (CEC) to overturn approvals issued to the projects by the Centre earlier this year.“Lessons in this pandemic show how crucial it is to make choices that are in harmony with nature,” said Meghna Amin, campaigner at Jhatkaa.org.The report released on Tuesday, conceived by the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) and Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun, identified a drop in tiger numbers in Goa from 5 in 2014 to 3 in 2018. It also identified the lack of source population in the region owing to fragmented corridor connectivity, development pressures and changes in habitat quality coinciding with mining activities around the forest ranges of Mollem, Kulem, Malpon in Goa.“The Western Ghats region extending from the Kali Tiger Reserve, Karnataka right up to Sahyadri Tiger Reserve in Maharashtra has a delicate ecosystem. Linear infrastructure projects proposed in these areas require a host of mitigation measures (appropriate wildlife passageway) to ensure the ecological impact is minimal. Only if there is a great national interest, should these projects be allowed,” said YV Jhala, author of the report and senior researcher WII.Santosh Kumar, chief wildlife warden, Goa said, “Whenever there is an infrastructure project of national importance, there will be some disturbance to wildlife habitat during the construction phase. All these three projects are from the Centre and Goa is going to be benefitted. The only thing we can do is minimise the impact and that is what we are doing.”The 240 sq. km expanse of the Bhagwan Mahavir wildlife sanctuary and Mollem National Park are together home to more than 721 plant species, 235 bird species, 70 mammal species along with a host of other biodiversity. “The Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, clearly identifies that development in and around the sanctuary can only be done in the interest of wildlife and better management of habitat. However, arguments that it benefits tourism and economic development are attempts to modify the Act. Under such circumstances, the public is never consulted and we are faced with a fait-accompli situation,” said Claude Alvares of Goa Foundation that filed a petition before the Goa bench of the Bombay high court against the projects. The biodiversity is not getting disturbed the way it is being projected, said Johnson B Fernandes, director, department of environment and climate change, Goa, adding, “The Gadgil Committee Report itself has said there is no requirement of public consultation because Goa is a small state. These are requirements of the national level and national importance. Those opposing these projects were party to public consultations of the Gadgil Committee Report and did not raise any objections at the time.”The Goa State Board for Wildlife (SBWL) accorded clearance to the projects in December 2019. “The decision-making process for these projects was faulty. The agenda and copies of the environmental impact assessment (EIA) were provided to non-government members minutes before the meeting leaving no time for prior research or deliberation. Additionally, EIAs for a few projects were developed in a shoddy manner. There is a need for community assessment, which has not happened,” said Parag Rangnekar, representing Goa Bird Conservation Network as a member at the SBWL.Compensatory afforestation for projects in Karnataka instead of GoaThe Goa forest department said several mitigation measures had been proposed for all three projects including eight underpasses for the railway project, 3% of the total project cost for each project to be allocated for wildlife conservation, elevated construction of the majority of the national highway on viaducts, and minimum loss of forest cover for the transmission line since pillars would be placed.Surprisingly, compensatory afforestation for the project would be carried out across 800 ha of degraded forest land in north Karnataka rather than. “Unfortunately, there is a paucity of land and the Goa government finding it difficult to acquire any degraded forest areas. The corridors have tiger presence but no harm can come to them or their habitat due to these projects,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/centre-s-report-on-tigers-boosts-campaign-against-infra-projects/story-UvbQv7NtCzPg20jihAXSzN.html
28-07-2020||Mumbai||56% of Maha tigers from Chandrapur; region sees most conflicts with humans: Report||Home to over 175 of the 312 tigers, the forest patches of Chandrapur district accounts for 56% of estimated tiger numbers in Maharashtra, a report released by the Centre said on Tuesday. The report further said that this landscape faces a maximum of human-tiger conflict in India.Ahead of International Tiger Day on Wednesday, the Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar released the 650-page report, ‘Status of tigers, co-predators and prey in India 2018-19’, jointly conceived by National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) and Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun.Across Chandrapur district, apart from the 82 tigers in Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR), the study identified 23 in Central Chanda, 31 in Chandrapur forests, 39 in Brahmapuri, taking the tally to 175 tigers. Combined with wildlife sanctuaries of Umred, Karandla (11 tigers) and Tipeswar (5 tigers) and Bor (6), tiger population in Vidarbha block was estimated at 219 (ranging from 185 to 252), the report said. “It is in this landscape that conflicts with humans and tigers are maximum. Predation by tigers on livestock being common and attacks on humans being occasional. A swift, dispassionate, and professional removal of problem individual tigers, as per NTCA protocol is essential to permit long-term tiger occupancy and prevent community retaliation towards the population and the species as a whole,” read the report.Human population in the Vidarbha landscape is 1.45 crore. There have been 27 human deaths reported due to tiger attacks between January and July this year. So far, four tigers, involved in the conflict, have been captured by the forest department this year.“The Vidarbha area, especially Chandrapur, has got overpopulated, which is a worry and there is a need for controlling the tiger population,” said YV Jhala, lead author of the report and senior researcher, WII.Last month, the forest department submitted a proposal to the state suggesting the translocation of 50 tigers from Chandrapur to areas with low density and sterilise male tigers to curb population.“The Centre’s report reiterates our concerns. An exponential increase in human-tiger conflict is expected with more tiger captures if steps are not taken,” said Nitin Kakodkar, state chief wildlife warden.Jhala identified other methods of controlling overabundance of tigers. “Intervention by vaccination through immuno-contraception where an injection to a tigress leads to temporary sterilisation for 3-5 years. Being a reversible process, we do not lose an animal’s genetic contribution to the entire gene pool but manage to control reproduction. No policies have been formed on this yet neither is it being discussed,” he said.SP Yadav, member secretary, NTCA said, “With a satisfactory performance by the state, there is a need for active management. Focus is needed on ensuring tiger carrying capacity is equally distributed from Chandrapur to all other areas within the state to ensure a balance is achieved. However, there is no need for tiger relocation to other states or other measures such as sterilisation at the moment.”Overall tiger population in Maharashtra has increased from 103 in 2006 to 168 in 2010, 190 in 2014 and 312 as per the latest assessment (2018-19).The report highlighted that the carrying capacity of each tiger reserve (tigers numbers a reserve can sustain) based on tiger density (number of individuals per 100 sq. km) showed that TATR, Bor, Navegaon-Nagzira and Pench fell in the ‘brown’ category (satisfactory) while Melghat fell under ‘yellow’ (falling below carrying capacity). STR was the only reserve that fell under the ‘red’ category (extremely low carrying capacity where tiger density cannot be calculated).“There is a contrast in Maharashtra with some reserves performing very well while a few remain vulnerable. Isolated issues are concerned with poaching and developmental pressures around reserves but major concerns include overpopulation (for Chandrapur) and extremely low density (for Sahyadri),” said Jhala. Tiger numbers across sanctuariesTiger numbers increased across all major reserves. Maharashtra has six tiger reserves spread over five national parks and 14 wildlife sanctuaries across 7,194.58 sq. km. They include Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR), Bor, Melghat, Navegaon-Nagzira (NNTR), Pench and Sahyadri (STR). The report broke down numbers of reserves, transient population around reserves, and wildlife sanctuaries. With 106 tigers using TATR, 82 individuals were identified against 51 in 2014. Similarly, 82 tigers using Pench, 53 were resident big cats against 35 in 2014, and 49 using Melghat with 46 resident tigers against 25 in 2014. Six tigers were identified in Bor (five in 2014) while NNTR recorded six in 2018-19 against seven in 2014.Sahayadri Tiger Reserve (STR) a cause of concernWith only three big cats identified at STR based on tiger signs (scat, DNA) and one camera trap image, Jhala said low tiger density was due to fragmented corridor connectivity. “Corridor connectivity for this linear strip along the north Western Ghats has a delicate balance of the ecosystem. Any linear infrastructure coming in will be detrimental. If appropriate mitigation measures are in place, it will take another 10 years for regular tiger movement into STR,” he said. The recent declaration of Tillari Conservation Reserve south of STR will help ensure a safe passage for tigers along the Western Ghats to STR, said Kakodkar. State board of wildlife member, Kishor Rithe said, “Enhanced protection and investments in restoring prey and habitats is needed for STR.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/56-of-maha-tigers-from-chandrapur-region-sees-most-conflicts-with-humans-report/story-yqBMVZcrSrG56zbE6r6nKP.html
28-07-2020||City||Woman’s body found in suitcase identified, husband, in-laws held for murdering her for dowry||The body found in a suitcase in Ghaziabad district on Monday morning was identified as that of a 24-year-old woman, Warisha, who lived with her husband and in-laws in Bulandshahr district. Based on her parents’ complaint, her husband and in-laws have been arrested on charges of murdering her for dowry and the case has been transferred to the Bulandshahr police as the crime had taken place there.The police said pictures of the victim were shared on social media in an effort to identify her and one of her relatives who saw the appeal came forward and also informed her parents in Aligarh district. The police said the woman, Warisha (single name), had got married to Amir Khan, a fish trader and resident of Islamnagar locality in Bulndshahr, on June 1. Her family has filed a police complaint in Bulandshahr accusing her in-laws of killing her for dowry. They told the police that her husband’s family was “harassing her for not bringing a washing machine and refrigerator”. Police said based on the parents’ complaint, Amir Khan, his father Muslim Khan and his mother Jameela have been arrested and booked under the IPC sections 304b (dowry death), 498a (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and also levied provisions of the Dowry Prohibition Act.Yogendra Singh, SHO of Kotwali police station in Bulandshahr, said her in-laws allegedly murdered the woman and dumped her body near New Hindon Vihar in Ghaziabad on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday. He added that Amir Khan and Muslim Khan hired a car and drove to Ghaziabad to dump the suitcase stuffed with the body. “After her body was found in Ghaziabad, we circulated her pictures over the social media and also informed the nearby districts. One of her relatives saw the pictures and informed her parents. They arrived in Ghaziabad and identified the body as that of Waisha’s. The autopsy was conducted in Ghaziabad but the rest of the legal action is being taken up by Bulandshahr police,” Manish Mishra, superintendent of police (city), Ghaziabad, said.“The three suspects have been arrested. The cause of her death will be known only after the autopsy reports are received from Ghaziabad. The suspects told us that after the murder, they stuffed her body in a suitcase and hired a car to drive towards Ghaziabad on Sunday night and dump the body,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-s-body-found-in-suitcase-identified-husband-in-laws-held-for-murdering-her-for-dowry/story-9Xu28bSR3aSUk6sRnly8oI.html
28-07-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death: CEO of Dharma productions quizzed||Police on Tuesday recorded the statement of Apoorva Mehta, chief executive officer of Dharma Productions, in connection with the death by suicide of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. The 34-year-old actor was found dead in his Bandra apartment on June 14. According to Bandra police, Mehta was called to Amboli police station, and questioned for close to four hours. He reached Amboli around 11am and left around 3pm. He was asked to bring the company’s contract copy with Rajput for the movie Drive. Before Mehta, police had recorded statements of filmmaker Mahesh Bhatt at Santacruz police station and filmmaker and chairman of Yash Raj Films Aditya Chopra at Versova police station. Police will now question filmmaker Karan Johar. “We will record Johar’s statement in connection with the ongoing investigation,” said Abhishek Trimukhe, deputy commissioner of police (zone 9). According to a senior police officer, they have recorded statements of 45 people, but have not found anything suspicious so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-ceo-of-dharma-productions-quizzed/story-fKiQ19pe95Eq7cbeHyNPsJ.html
28-07-2020||Mumbai||Downpour slows down traffic in city||Traffic movement across south Mumbai was affected as waterlogging was reported at many areas after heavy rains on Tuesday morning.Madhukar Pandey joint commissioner of police (traffic), said, “Due to heavy rains, traffic movement is slow at seven locations.”According to the Mumbai traffic department, waterlogging at Worli Naka, Khan Abdul Gaffar Khan Marg, Rakhangi petrol pump in Worli, near Sardar Hotel in Lalbaug, outside Sobo Central in Haji Ali, and near Mahalakshmi temple caused traffic snarls in these areas.The road outside Byculla police station and Hindmata slip road were closed, and traffic was diverted onto the bridges at both locations, said traffic police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/downpour-slows-down-traffic-in-city/story-7E7ZgbR2Xybvf1relQzBVK.html
28-07-2020||Mumbai||IIT-B turns to alumni to pay salaries of contractual staff||With non-tuition fees waived off or reduced, the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B), has turned yet again to its alumni to pay the contractual workers engaged on campus.The institute launched a donation drive last week to raise ₹50 lakh through faculty and alumni networks. Subhasis Chaudhuri, director, IIT-B, said, “This (donation drive) is mostly to help those workers who were working in hostels and other facilities on campus. Now that many hostels are closed and various student hostel related fees have been reduced, we have launched this initiative.”This was preceded by another donation drive from alumni for buying laptops and broadband for students ahead of the online semester. Around ₹7 crore was raised for the purpose.The donation drives are indicative of the financial implication of the Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown on the institute. On June 25, the institute announced that the entire autumn semester will be conducted in an online mode. Subsequently, the administration slashed or waived off several non-tuition components of fees collected from students.While the gymkhana fees has been slashed ₹2,000 per semester to ₹500 per semester, medical fees, hostel rent and electrical and water charges have been waived off for students who are not on campus.According to professor Prasanna Mujumdar, deputy director of finance and external affairs, the cut in gymkhana fees results in a loss of around ₹1.4 crore and waiver in other components amount to around ₹6 crore. With the institute deferring any increase in fees to the next academic year, the difference in income and expenses can further swell.“IIT-B has deferred implementation of any increase in both tuition and non-tuition fees to academic year 21-22. Further, the income from fees will reduce due to the fee components which have been reduced/will not be charged,” added Mujumdar. In view of the pandemic, the institute is also allowing students to defer the payment of their fees till September. Meanwhile, the sanctioned and released funds from the central government agencies are lower than the initial allocation, said Mujumdar. The institute is wading through the crisis by following the cash management guidelines of the central government and keeping expenditure control in first and second quarters.“In view of the pandemic, lockdown and orders to keep educational institutes closed during the lockdown period, students are not permitted to stay on campus. Therefore, expenditure has also reduced somewhat. Overall, we are able to manage the balance between income and expenditure, and the institute’s finances are not largely affected by the pandemic,” he said.HT had earlier reported that the institute was facing a severe cash crunch and in November last year, Chaudhuri had asked faculty members to explore fundraising options.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/iit-b-turns-to-alumni-to-pay-salaries-of-contractual-staff/story-wxBKdf67j9OdgsxP6WR77I.html
28-07-2020||Chandigarh||Committee to meet on August 4 on issue of rates of Chandigarh housing scheme||: A meeting of the six-member committee on the issue of rates of UT employees housing scheme has been scheduled for August 4. The development comes in the wake of the directions of the Punjab and Haryana high court. On a petition, the high court had directed the Union home secretary to convene a meeting with UT adviser and chairman of Chandigarh Housing Board to make efforts to resolve the issue and submit the report by next date of hearing, September 1. The high court had also directed that three representatives of the petitioners may be also be associated in the proceedings. The CHB had floated the special housing scheme for employees in 2008. Around 3,000 flats were to be constructed in Sectors 52, 53 and 56. Later, the scheme was shelved because the flats were too expensive. It was revived after the employees took up the matter with local MP Kirron Kher. But, the ministry of home affairs allowed the administration to transfer land to the CHB with the current collector rates. The employees then moved the high court alleging that the CHB was charging five times the initial price for land after the launch of the scheme for UT administration employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/committee-to-meet-on-august-4-on-issue-of-rates-of-chandigarh-housing-scheme/story-VZ0MZTHeMJczhlfgJMlduJ.html
28-07-2020||City||Ghaziabad family robbed of cash, jewellery worth ₹13 lakh at gunpoint||Several armed men broke into a house in Ghaziabad on Tuesday early morning and robbed the family of jewellery and cash worth ₹13 lakh at gunpoint. The police have registered a case of dacoity (robbery committed by five or more persons) and said the family members have raised suspicions about one of their relatives. The family told police that at least six armed men broke into their house in Chiranjeev Vihar’s Sector 9 around 1.30am Tuesday and fled around 4am with the valuables after threatening the occupants of the house with dire consequences if they tried to raise the alarm. The Chiranjeev Vihar area is close to Harsaon police lines. The family later alleged that their calls to the police went unanswered. “The men left our house around 4am Tuesday. The police did not take our calls and we had to go to the local police post to alert them about the robbery. As per our initial assessment, the robbers took away jewellery worth ₹11 lakh besides about ₹2 lakh in cash. They also took away money which my father had withdrawn on Monday,” said Kanchan Sharma, the house owner. “They broke into the house by cutting through the window grilles. They were six in number and carrying weapons and knives. There are a total of 11 members, including children, living together in our family home. After they entered the house, they held the children at gunpoint. They tied us up and gaged us before ransacking the house,” Sharma said. “They locked all of us in the bathroom. The men seemed to be in the age group of 35-40 years and were well built. They did not speak in the local dialect and seemed to be from eastern UP. After they were done looting, they got us out of the bathroom and locked us in one of the rooms. They left soon after,” she added. Kalanidhi Nathani, senior superintendent of police (SSP), said the robbers fled with jewellery and cash. He declined to comment on whether there was a lack of adequate police patrolling in the area. “We have roped in several teams and are also scanning the CCTV footage. The CCTV cameras at the house were not functional. The family informed us that six men broke into their house and fled with jewellery and cash. We are probing the case and are also trying to ascertain if any person known to the family was involved,” Naithani told reporters later in the day. The police on the basis of complaint given by Sharma’s father, Bhopal Sharma, registered an FIR under IPC sections 395 (dacoity) and 397 (robbery with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt) at the Kavi Nagat police station. In his complaint, Bhopal Sharma has raised suspicions about one of his relatives who has a property dispute with him. “While the robbers were in the house, they offered water to my son-in-law, telling him that he was their ‘mehman’ (term generally used for sons-in-law in western UP) and apologised for the incident,” the FIR stated. “The family has raised suspicions about one of their relatives. So, we are investigating his role and are also working on other angles to crack the case,” Manish Mishra, superintendent of police (city), said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-family-robbed-of-cash-jewellery-worth-13-lakh-at-gunpoint/story-xdKdSr2t4nA2T0qbCRu7pL.html
28-07-2020||City||Ghaziabad to procure more high-flow oxygen system to aid patient recoveries||The Ghaziabad health department, in order to keep the fatality rate low, has planned to purchase more high-flow nasal cannula — an oxygen supply system capable of delivering up to 100% humidified and heated oxygen at a flow rate of up to 60 liters per minute.Officials said that during the last one month, 20 patients were administered oxygen with high-flow nasal cannulas and 19 of them recovered. The Ghaziabad district has so far witnessed 64 deaths, of which 51 were added in the month of June. Only four deaths had been reported between March to May. The present fatality rate of the district stands at 1.35% as on July 28 ,out of total 4,708 Covid-19 cases. The officials said that their experience with high-flow nasal cannulas has shown positive results while dealing with patients requiring critical care in L3 hospital. The L1 hospitals deal with asymptomatic patients while the L2 hospitals treat Covid-19 patients having mild or moderate symptoms. The L3 hospitals on the other hand are meant for patients having severe complications and require critical care.“At present we have only three high-flow nasal cannulas available at our L3 hospital, while the L2 has none. The three high-flow nasal cannula units were provided to the L3 hospital during the last week of June. In one month time, we treated 20 patients with it and there was only one fatality. All the remaining 19 patients recovered,” said an officer from the health department “So, we have now planned to buy 20 units of high-flow nasal cannulas, eight each of which will be given to our L2 category hospital and to ESIC hospital, which is getting converted from L1 to L2 category. The remaining four will go to our L3 hospital,” the officer, said, adding that high value drugs like Remdesivir will also be procured.Medical experts said that high-flow nasal cannulas have shown better results than the ventilator systems for patients who are infected with Covid-19. “The high-flow nasal cannulas, unlike the ventilator systems, is non-invasive and helps in supplying high quantity of oxygen to patients. Their usage has shown improved results. Further, it also does not require team of experts to handle the equipment, unlike specialised staff required to handle ventilators. In Ghaziabad, there were hardly any high-flow nasal cannulas available during initial days of Covid-19 spread. If the health department is planning to purchase more units, it will help during treatment of critical patients,” said Dr VB Jindal, president of Indian Medical Association, Ghaziabad. “In the ventilator systems, the oxygen supply is invasive and may result in trauma or injury to lungs if oxygen is supplied with high level of force. So, ideally the decision for purchase of more high-flow nasal cannula units is encouraging and should help L2 and L3 hospitals,” he added. After the UP government directed for home isolation facility for asymptomatic patients, the Ghaziabad authorities are focussing more on strengthening the facilities in L2 and L3 hospitals. “We have introduced early identification, early testing and early referral of Covid-19 patients and as a result our case fatality rate has come down considerably. The demand for equipment by the health department will be taken care of and all available funds will be provided for purchase,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. Even the UP government is focussing on providing all available amenities and medical facilities to patients who are getting treated for Covid-19. “The chief minister has directed that all beds in L2 and L3 category hospitals should be provided with oxygen facilities and at all time there should be availability of oxygen stock which is sufficient for 48 hours. The CM has also directed that anti-viral drug Remdesivir should also be provided to patients,” said Awanish Awasthi, UP’s additional chief secretary (home).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-to-procure-more-high-flow-oxygen-system-to-aid-patient-recoveries/story-RJsJJyzx6PEKNvvBD76fiL.html
28-07-2020||Mumbai||Tulsi lake overflows; water stock in seven lakes is 32%||Of the seven lakes that supply drinking water to Mumbai, Tulsi lake on Monday night became the first to overflow this monsoon. Tulsi lake is the smallest of the seven and supplies only 1% of Mumbai’s total annual water needs. Despite spells of intense rain in the city, the water level of the lakes is lower this year than in July 2019.Tulsi lake, located within Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP), is usually the first to overflow. The other lakes – Vihar, Upper Vaitarna, Middle Vaitarna, Modak Sagar, Tansa, and Bhatsa – are in Thane and Palghar districts. The seven lakes can store up to 14.47 lakh million litres of water and bifurcate into two systems – the Vaitarna system, which supplies water to the western suburbs and the island city; and the Bhatsa system, which supplies water to the eastern suburbs. Three weeks ago, Powai lake had overflowed, but it supplies water only for industrial purposes.As of Tuesday, the water stock in the seven lakes that supply water to Mumbai is just 32%, which could last a little over 100 days. On the same date, the stock had been 75.25% and 83.34% of full capacity in 2019 and 2018 respectively. According to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials, though there has been good rainfall in the city, catchment areas in lakes and dams have not received much rainfall. BMC said it is closely monitoring the situation and no decision on water cuts has been taken for Mumbai. The civic body supplies 3,750 million litres of water daily against the city’s demand for 4,200 million litres.Data shared by BMC showed the seven lakes had 4.73 lakh million litres of water – 32.69% of full capacity – on Tuesday. Bhatsa dam, which supplies 55% of the city’s total water requirement, stood at 36.15% of the total capacity, compared to 76.40% at this time in 2019.Of the total required rainfall for the year, 15% was expected in June and 35% in July. In August, 35% of required rainfall is expected, followed by 15% in September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/tulsi-lake-overflows-water-stock-in-seven-lakes-is-32/story-WoRv2I3K3lY70d4DsMTpdN.html
28-07-2020||Mumbai||City’s July rain is highest in 76 years||After surpassing its July average (840mm) within the first 15 days of the month, the city broke its all-time record for July rainfall on Tuesday. The rain tally between July 1 and July 28 (8.30pm) was 1,474.4mm, which is the highest in 76 years. Previously, 2014 had been the wettest July with 1,468.5mm rain.On Tuesday, south Mumbai recorded intermittent intense spells through the day, with 87.6 mm (heavy) rain from 8.30am to 8.30pm while the suburbs recorded 7.8 mm rain. A yellow alert (heavy rain) has been issued for Wednesday and Saturday by the weather bureau.Between July 1 and Tuesday, Mumbai has recorded 1,474.4mm rain, which is an all-time record. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) maintains rain data from 1944 onwards, when the Santacruz observatory was established. Though Mumbai had received a record 944.2mm rain over 24 hours in July 2005, when there were floods in the city, the monthly total was 1454.5 mm. Last year, the city recorded 1,464.8 mm rain in July. Other landmark years include 1965 (1,455.5 mm), 1961 (1,385.5 mm), 2011 (1,312.9mm), 2010 (1,250.4mm) and 1988 (1,226.1mm) in 1988.This month, Mumbai has recorded 75.5% excess rain and witnessed eight days of heavy to very heavy rain. Apart from July 2, the city has received rainfall every day of the month, with five days of very heavy rain. Maximum rain was recorded between July 4 and July 5 (200.8 mm) followed by 191.2mm between July 15-16. IMD classifies 15.6-64.4mm in 24 hours as moderate rain; 64.5-115.5mm rain as heavy; 115.6-204.4mm as very heavy; and over 204.5mm as extremely heavy rain. IMD officials said rain during July was consistent as opposed to June, when there was a rain deficit with the city falling 98mm short of its rain target and recording the lowest monthly rainfall in five years.“Weather systems in the Arabian Sea and larger factors such as a weak positive Indian Ocean dipole (IOD) – an ocean-atmosphere phenomenon with difference in sea surface temperatures characterised by cooling in parts of the Indian Ocean, leading to enhanced rain – ensured active monsoon conditions through most of the month,” said an IMD official.Professor Sridhar Balasubramanian, department of mechanical engineering and IDP Climate Studies, Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay, said, “Positive IOD indicates a warm pool of water in the west Arabian Sea (near Somalia). This is good for bringing moisture over to the west coast.”However, showers have evaded catchment areas. “Since catchment areas are located further interior from the coast, cloud bands have not penetrated owing to weak wind drag. However, this is likely to change in August as the Bay of Bengal gets ready to churn a system,” said Balasubramanian, adding that the city could expect “above normal” rain in August.Mumbai has received 82.6% of its seasonal average rainfall from June 1 to July 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/city-s-july-rain-is-highest-in-76-years/story-GUdg6472XVYChPIaGC8jEJ.html
28-07-2020||City||Improved recovery rate reduces sealed area count in Ghaziabad||With the recovery rate in the district improving, active cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Ghaziabad are coming down steadily with none of the 275 hotspots having double-digit infections anymore, said officials. According to the latest list released by the administration on July 27, the district has 89 category-1 containment zones having at least one Covid-19 case, while there are 186 category-2 containment zones with multiple cases. In less than ten days, the number of total containment zones has also reduced by 42, as per the administration’s data.“With the rate at which we are discharging patients now, our recovery rate is better, and active cases in containment zones are on the decline. Currently, there is no containment zone which has more than nine cases or any zone with active cases in double digits. This has been achieved through the faster discharge of patients.” a senior official from the district health department, who wish not to be named, said.According to a list released on July 19, the district had at least 21 hotspots with 10 or more active cases out of the total 317 containment zones. These 21 hotspots included areas in Brij Vihar, Raj Nagar Extension, Lajpat Nagar, sector-4 at Vaishali, Nandgram, Shipra Sun City (Indirapuram), Ahimsa Khand-1 at Indirapuram, Nyay Khand in Indirapuram, Arthala, Chiranjeev Vihar and Gyan Khand-1 in Indirapuram among others.According to data by the health department, a total of 1,045 patients have been discharged between July 19—when the active cases were 1,322— and July 27 which has reduced the burden of active cases in containment zones.The Ghaziabad district, till July 27, had reported a total of 4,639 total cases including 947 active cases. With 3,628 total recoveries, the recovery rate stood at 78.2%—an improvement from the recovery rate of 64.93% on July 19 till when 2,583 people were discharged out to total 3,978 cases. Till June 30, the recovery rate was a mere 45.69% with 738 patients discharged out of 1,615 cases.“After July 19, the number of active cases is on the decline and at present (Tuesday) we have less than 800 active cases as per the state portal. We are planning to bring down the number of active cases further with the help of the revised discharge policy. Reduction in the number active cases will help us reduce the number containment zone which will benefit residents who face restrictions because of sealing” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.According to the revised discharge guidelines issued by the state government on July 21, asymptomtic patients in home isolation will be considered as recovered if they do not show any symptoms in 10 days. Mild category patients will be discharged after a follow up test on eighth day (of the first sample, under any of the three conditions – tenth day of the first sample, tenth day of the symptoms or if such patients remain without fever for three consecutive days.On Tuesday, the recovery rate further improved to 81.96% with total 3,859 recoveries out of 4,708 total cases (after deleting duplicate entries and cross-notification of patients).“There have been areas like Khoda, Vaishali, and Loni where we had taken up strict containment exercises and now the number of active cases there have reduced. Dealing with containment zones is one of our priority areas in fight against Covid-19,” he added.The latest list released by the district administration includes 244 zones having anything between one to five cases, while the rest zones of 31 zones have cases between six to nine.There are five zones which have nine number of active cases. The areas are Shalimar Garden Extension, Mata Colony at Vijay Nagar, Patel Ngar-2 and Janakpuri in Sahibabad and sector-12 at Vijay Nagar. Besides these, there are only two zones of Nandgram and Sihani having eight cases, while there are 11 zones having seven cases each. These include areas of Chiranjeev Vihar, Shastri Nagar, sector-2 at Vaishali and Khoda among others.“We are taking up containment exercises, sanitisation drives and also focussing on increased testing in category-2 zones. This is helping us identify positive cases and referring them for treatment,” the officer quoted above said. According to the official figures, till July 27, the district had tested 90,879 samples.“The size of the new containment zones have also been reduced,” the health department official said. As per an order issued by RK Tiwari, UP chief secretary, on July 24, the boundary of containment zones areas has been reduced by half. Areas within the 100-metre radius of a category-1 containment zone in city areas will be sealed now as compared to areas within a 250-meter radius. The boundary of category-2 containment zones (multiple cases) has also been redefined and the earlier 500-metre range has been reduced to 200 metre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/improved-recovery-rate-reduces-sealed-area-count-in-ghaziabad/story-13YeOXbVHapqColqMbMIpO.html
28-07-2020||City||100,000 vacancies posted on govt’s job portal: Kejriwal||New Delhi: A day after launching a job portal to connect potential employers with people who lost their jobs during the lockdown, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said that the website has received posts about more than 100,000 vacancies.“On the jobs portal that we announced yesterday, 4,294 employers have registered so far and have posted 1,00,903 vacancies. 1,89,879 job seekers have applied. I am so glad that so many employers are coming forward. I really hope many people get jobs through this initiative,” Kejriwal tweeted on Tuesday.The portal is one of the several initiatives by the Delhi government that were designed following recommendations of a 12-member committee set up by the government earlier this month to chalk out plans focussed on revising Delhi’s economy after the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/100-000-vacancies-posted-on-govt-s-job-portal-kejriwal/story-AXkoxWALLBgtyG2VsFfaoM.html
28-07-2020||City||Gambhir visits Ghazipur landfill, AAP questions height reduction claim||New Delhi: East Delhi MP and Bharatiya Janata Party leader Gautam Gambhir on Tuesday visited the Ghazipur landfill site to inspect measures that the municipal corporation had taken to reduce the height of the landfill site. He was accompanied by East Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Nirmal Jain and the civic agency’s commissioner Dilraj Kaur. Gambhir said that the height of Ghazipur landfill site had been reduced by 40 feet by segregating and treating legacy waste on the landfill with the help of trommel machines. “It was possible because of continuous efforts of EDMC. Our objective is development of the area, so it is expected of the Delhi Government to encourage and support us in development works,” Gambhir said. In 2019, the landfill had touched a height of 65 metres. In September 2017, a portion of the Ghazipur landfill collapsed and came tumbling on the road, trapping two passers-by, who died. Last week, Gambhir had claimed that the height of the landfill has been reduced by 40 feet.Dilraj Kaur, EDMC commissioner, said approximately 140 lakh tonnes of waste is being segregated and treated with the help of eight machines set up at the site. She said the size of landfill site is a serious challenge to EDMC. “These trommel machines process 640 metric tons of waste every day. We plan to install four more new machines to speed up the work of processing of legacy waste. The waste is separated in three parts with a separator. First- light waste such as plastic, polythene, and cloth, etc. Second, heavy waste such as glass and metal and third, other small substances and inert soil. The segregated waste is sent to treatment plants for processing,” she said. Reacting to Gambhir’s visit, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA from the area, Kuldeep Kumar, said the BJP leader was misleading people by spreading ‘lies’ such as the reduction in the height of the landfill by 40 feet. “If he had informed me about his visit, I would have accompanied him and apprised him about the worries of the public there,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gambhir-visits-ghazipur-landfill-aap-questions-height-reduction-claim/story-2aIWcezIc5f69eXvAlqnFP.html
28-07-2020||City||Boy shoots dead friend after quarrel over payment in Delhi||New Delhi: A 17-year-old boy was allegedly shot dead by his friend of the same age following an argument over paying for a party that the two along with another friend had organised in northwest Delhi’s Jahangirpuri on Monday night. The teenager involved in the murder has been apprehended and a case of murder has been registered, deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Vijayanta Arya said. DCP Arya said the crime came to their notice after police received a call from the Babu Jagjivan Ram hospital regarding admission of a teenager in an unconscious state with a gunshot injury on his chest. The doctors declared him brought dead.During the investigation, the DCP said, an eyewitness said the teenager and two others were partying when the two started quarrelling over paying for the party.“Both of them were asking each other to pay. This led to an altercation during which the 17-year-old friend pulled out a gun and shot his friend in the chest,” said DCP Arya. The police said the juvenile attacker fled after the crime but was apprehended later after being identified by the prime witness. The illegal pistol was recovered from him. Investigators are trying to find out how the minor boy procured the illegal weapon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/boy-shoots-dead-friend-after-quarrel-over-payment-in-delhi/story-lNATfPpvwC6zlWD4TAcP1L.html
28-07-2020||City||Man shot dead outside his house in Narela village||New Delhi: A 30-year-old man, who was a witness in a two-year-old murder case, was killed after unidentified assailants opened fire at him outside his home in Khera Khurd village in outer Delhi’s Narela on Monday night. At least half a dozen rounds were fired and at least four bullets hit the man, identified by his first name Ravi, police said. The police said that they suspect that Ravi, who also had a criminal background, may have been killed either over personal enmity or because of the rivalry between two gangs, whose leaders are presently lodged in Tihar jail. Ravi was a witness in a murder case of 2018 registered in outer Delhi. “We are probing if his murder is linked with that case,” said deputy commissioner of police (outer-north) Gaurav Sharma. Around 9 pm on Monday, Ravi was standing outside his home when three-four men arrived and opened fire at him.After hearing the gunshots, Ravi’s father, Vikram, rushed out and found his son bleeding. The suspects fled in a car after seeing Ravi’s family members and neighbours, said a police officer, quoting the statements by local residents. “Ravi’s family rushed him to Baba Saheb Ambedkar hospital, where he was declared brought dead. A case of murder has been registered at the Narela Industrial Area police station. It is being probed from all possible angles,” said DCP Sharma. There were rumours on local social media groups that Ravi had recently been taken to Tihar jail to identify a prime accused in the 2018 murder case and that he may have been killed for becoming the witness. “As of now, we have not come across any such development. Ravi’s family has also not alleged anything, so far,” the DCP added. The police said that they were scanning footage of CCTV cameras on the possible routes that the attackers may have taken while fleeing the crime spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-shot-dead-outside-his-house-in-narela-village/story-EfzGFw1mbzBddBS9FysnHL.html
28-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi ties up with US Embassy to train English teachers in govt schools||To enhance training of government school teachers, the Delhi government has launched a professional development programme for English teachers in a tie-up with the Regional English Language Office (RELO), US Embassy India. As part of the programme, around 550 teachers will be offered an eight-week online course, the government said on Tuesday. “About 550 teachers of the Delhi government schools will join the prestigious eight-week online Professional Development for English Teachers (PDET), conducted jointly by the Delhi government and the US Embassy,” the government statement said. The programme is an asynchronous course designed for English teachers to enhance their skills in teaching -- whether they are freshers or experienced. While this programme is for 550 middle and secondary grade teachers, the government said it is also exploring the option to have similar courses for primary level teachers. While launching the programme, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said the course “provides practical ideas for the English language classroom”. “The course emphasis on scaffolding students, critical thinking and use of techniques such as storytelling, drama, games and music will not only enhance children’s ability to learn a new language but also raise their confidence,” he said. “In the last four years, we have worked on both fronts -- learning opportunities for students and capacity building for teachers. While we have engaged renowned agencies to conduct Spoken English classes for students which benefitted nearly 65,000 children, we believe that giving new opportunities to our teachers to acquire global perspective and skills to teach English is a more sustainable approach,” the education minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-ties-up-with-us-embassy-to-train-english-teachers-in-govt-schools/story-IFPbVwX0BhBwXLhwD0bIuO.html
28-07-2020||Delhi||Judicial remand of north-east Delhi riots accused extended till Aug 14||A Delhi court on Tuesday extended the judicial custody of Meeran Haider, Gufisha Khatoon, and Tahir Hussain -- all arrested by the Delhi Police for their alleged role in the north-east Delhi riots -- till August 14.Additional sessions judge Dharmendra Rana extended the judicial remand of the three accused after “considering the nature of the investigation to be conducted”.The Delhi Police’s special cell had named the trio along with other accused Ishrat Jahan, Khalid Saifi, Safoora Zargar, Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita, and Tahir Hussain in an FIR accusing them of criminal conspiracy to orchestrate the riots.They were charged under the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) for their alleged role in the riots. While all others are lodged in jail, Zargar, who is more than four months pregnant, has been granted bail by the high court on “humanitarian grounds.”The accused persons have denied the charges and said police were targeting students and activists who had protested against the Citizenship Amendment Act.Earlier, the court had granted time to the special cell to finish the probe by August 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/judicial-remand-of-north-east-delhi-riots-accused-extended-till-aug-14/story-m2GQknQn4Uds3g7oaQ1vlJ.html
28-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt might delink hotels from hospitals due to low occupancy of COVID beds||The Delhi government is likely to delink hotels that were recently attached with dedicated Covid-19 hospitals as there has been a decline in the number of active cases of the novel coronavirus in the last few days in the city, sources said on Tuesday.Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal is likely to chair a strategic meeting on Wednesday wherein a decision to delink the hotels may be taken, said a government source.“With no patients in hotels and reducing number of patients in Delhi hospitals, important strategic decisions may be taken,” he said.According to the Delhi health bulletin, 12,633 COVID beds in hospitals and more than 4,000 beds in dedicated COVID care centres were lying vacant due to declining number of positive cases of coronavirus.The number of active cases of Covid-19 was 10,887 on Tuesday including 6,219 patients recuperating under home isolation, the bulletin said.The Delhi government had in early June empowered the district magistrates in 11 districts to use hotels as an extension of hospitals treating Covid-19 patients as the cases surged.A total of 40 hotels were designated as extensions of various hospitals across the city.Patients with moderate symptoms staying at such hotels received basic healthcare and were to be shifted to the attached hospitals in case their condition worsened.Three hotels in south west Delhi were earlier this month delinked from their respective hospitals due to low occupancy. But the decision was reversed by the district authorities within a day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-might-delink-hotels-from-hospitals-due-to-low-occupancy-of-covid-beds/story-X2WAQAylCHEfYORhoY5hVM.html
28-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh education dept asks parents for feedback on reopening of schools||The Chandigarh school education department has directed schools to seek feedback from parents of students by July 30 on reopening of schools.This comes after the ministry of human resource development (MHRD) directed states to get feedback from parents on when they want schools to reopen and what changes they expect to be implemented.District education officer, Harbir Anand, said, “Opinion of parents is necessary to reopen schools. We have directed schools to get feedback from parents which we will analyse and send a report to MHRD.”In the communication sent to heads of schools, the education department has sought feedback from parents on the likely period they will be comfortable with for reopening of schools, with August, September and October as options.Parents have also been asked their expectations when they reopen and they can also give their feedback on other aspects related to the matter.As per ministry of home affair’s guidelines of Unlock 2.0, schools are closed till July 31.Schools in Chandigarh have been closed since the lockdown began in March. As per government directives, staffers have been allowed to work from home now. However, few staffers are allowed to attend offices in case of urgency.“We are waiting for government directives on when schools will be allowed to open till we take further steps,” the DEO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-education-dept-asks-parents-for-feedback-on-reopening-of-schools/story-3ETN1pDXYXW32b1rlPMIjP.html
28-07-2020||Chandigarh||Illegal structures near airport: No demolition drive planned till Covid-19 situation normalises||Though the Covid-19 outbreak has created havoc around the world, owners of illegal structures falling within a 100-metre radius of the boundary wall of the Air Force Station in Pabhat village of Zirakpur have got some respite as authorities concerned say they have no plans to carry out a demolition drive till the Covid situation normalises.The Mohali administration carried out a demolition drive on February 20 this year and razed about 17 structures, primarily godowns in the village area and later postponed the drive because of the outbreak. About 83 such structures near the defence installation and close to the international airport have to be razed.Commenting on the matter, Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan there was no plan for a demolition drive as most government officials were busy with Covid-19 duties. “We will plan a drive once the situation normalises,” he said.Earlier, the demolition was to be conducted on January 7 and then on January 20, but had to be deferred due to the cold weather.Mohali administration had issued two-week notices to the owners of these 83 structures. Following orders of the Punjab and Haryana high court, notices were earlier issued on September 18, 2019, to 98 owners of such illegal structures under the Works of Defence Act, 1903.All structures built after March 9, 2011, in Phabat village and after March 11, 2011, in Jagatpura village in Mohali were deemed illegal under the Act by the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/illegal-structures-near-airport-no-demolition-drive-planned-till-covid-19-situation-normalises/story-B3t4RHPwVqdOdsEBV12UEL.html
28-07-2020||Chandigarh||Two days after raid against immoral trafficking, Chandigarh Police post in-charge transferred||In-charge of the Sector 61 police post Mini Bhardwaj was on Tuesday transferred to Police Lines with immediate effect on administrative grounds as per orders of senior superintendent of police (SSP) Nilambari Jagadale.Bhardwaj’s transfer comes two days after three police personnel were also sent to Police Lines after an immoral trafficking racket was busted following a raid in a hotel in Kajheri, Sector 52 here.In the raid conducted on Saturday, the police had rescued 10 women and arrested five persons including a woman. In the fallout, two traffic policemen—ASI Balbir and constable Ashok—were suspended and three police personnel—police post munshi Brijesh, head constable Pawan and Kavit, who were on Kajheri beat—were transferred.Routine transfersInspector Shri Parkash was shifted from the traffic wing to the Economic Offences Wing (EOW), and inspector Gurjit Kaur was shifted from Police Lines to the traffic wing of the Chandigarh Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-police-post-in-charge-transferred-in-connection-with-trafficking-racket/story-z6s5fDIDQJ1V4bAEDwKw1J.html
28-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Industrialists demand no enhancement policy, OTS for Focal Point plot holders||Seeking no enhancement policy for plot holders in Focal Point, a delegation of Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO) met chairman of Punjab State Industries and Export Corporation (PSIEC), Gurpreet Gogi, on Tuesday.The delegation said that almost six years back, PSIEC issued a notice of Rs 249 per square yard to focal point Phase-8 allottees, which was finally settled at Rs 24 per square yard. They said that now, PSIEC has issued a notice again and demanded Rs 474 per square yard from the allottees, even when it has already taken 100% anticipatory enhancement. Now with inclusions of interest and other charges, the cost has reached around Rs 1,000 per square yard, which is totally unjustified, the delegation said.FICO president Gurmeet Singh Kular said, “The industry is suffering due to issue of enhancement charges and industrialists are unable to avail facilities from banking institutes in absence of clearance certificate issued by the PSIEC. The government should support the industry at this time of crisis.”“The state government should adopt “No enhancement policy” of Haryana State Industries Development Corporation and announce one-time settlement (OTS) policy for payment of dues without penalty,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-industrialists-demand-no-enhancement-policy-ots-for-focal-point-plot-holders/story-zS92fI5hvMSWUPI8B3f34N.html
28-07-2020||Chandigarh||₹20,000 robbed from petrol pump employee in Ludhiana||Two motorcycle-borne miscreants robbed Rs 20,000 from a petrol pump employee in Kothe Pona village on Tuesday. The victim has been identified as Rajinder Kumar. He said that at around 11.30am, two men on a motorcycle turned up at the petrol pump and stood near him. When he asked why they were there, the accused said they are waiting for their friend.He added that the two men snatched a bag containing Rs 20,000 from him and fled. The victim informed the police, following which deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Dilbagh Singh and inspector Nidhan Singh reached the spot and initiated investigation.The DSP added that the accused have been captured in the CCTV camera installed at the petrol pump and police are trying to identify the accused.A case has been lodged against unidentified accused at Raikot (sadar) police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/20-000-robbed-from-petrol-pump-employee-in-ludhiana/story-X4bKmbdrdMRrcKR4qdBjTJ.html
28-07-2020||City||More electric crematoria likely to come up in Ludhiana||In a bid to ease the load on crematoriums bearing the burden of Covid-19 victims, the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) has initiated an exercise to identify more crematoriums with gas chambers to perform the last rites of the victims. The administration has however clarified that it is not mandatory to cremate Covid-19 victims in electric crematoriums. Mayor Balkar Sandhu and MC commissioner, Pardeep Sabharwal visited cremation ground situated in the Shivpuri area and the one near Dholewal chowk (being run by Ramgarhia education council) on Tuesday.In Shivpuri, the mayor and MC chief asked the MC officials to convert the electronic crematorium into a gas chamber. The electronic crematorium was installed back in 2002, but it has developed snag as it was never used. Further directions have also been issued to repair an old gas chamber and set up another gas chamber in cremation ground near Dholewal chowk. Cremations are already taking place at one of the gas chambers operational at the crematorium. Sabharwal said, “Apart from this, the gas chamber in Model Town extension cremation ground is also in working condition and can be used for performing the last rites. We are in talks with the management of different crematoriums including the one in Dehlon and few other areas.” After deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Sharma issued a detailed order fixing duties of different departments for the cremation of bodies. MC Chief Sabharwal has deputed all the four MC zonal commissioners as nodal officers for making arrangements and communicating with the management of crematoriums in their respective areas for the cremation of Covid-19 victims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/more-electric-crematoria-likely-to-come-up-in-ludhiana/story-qWdSVGZPPQwtxpRObfSquI.html
28-07-2020||City||Destination address must when filling railway reservation forms||Passengers will now have to give details of their destination including the PIN code of the area while filling the reservation form. The Ferozepur division of the Northern Railway has introduced new reservation forms at reservation centers at railway stations, with additional columns.The step has been taken for contact tracing of Covid-19 patients. Senior Divisional Commercial Manager (Sr DCM) Chetan Taneja said that the step will help in contact tracing of Covid-19 patients. He added that if any passenger tests positive for Covid-19, the railway would have their travel history.He said that the railway would inform passengers, who travelled with positive patients and they would also alert the authorities with the address where they had travelled. The PIN code would help them in finding a specific area.He added that some changes have been made in online reservations also.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/destination-address-must-when-filling-railway-reservation-forms/story-YfA5OaleoWcZoZhskKSWFJ.html
28-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ahead of Rafale touchdown, Section 144 imposed in area around Ambala Air Force station||Ahead of the arrival of the Rafale aircrafts at Air Force station in Ambala on Wednesday, district magistrate Ashok Kumar Sharma imposed Section 144 in the area with immediate effect. “The orders have been issued to prevent the movement of anti-social elements around the Air Force station and avoid any untoward incident. Photography from places like Dhulkot, Baldev Nagar, Garnala and Panjokhara has also been prohibited,” Sharma said in an order.Talking about security preparations, superintendent of police, Abhishek Jorwal, said that other than the imposition of Section 144, the use of drones have been prohibited in the area and violators will be booked. EXCITEMENT IN THE AIRDue to its proximity to the northern and western frontiers, the Rafale aircrafts are being stationed at the Ambala Air Force station where 17 Squadron of the Golden Arrows has been revived. Many Ambala residents are sharing images of the aircraft on social media and #Ambala has been trending on Twitter for the last few days. Sergeant Harinder Sharma (retired) said, “This is a proud moment for us as the Ambala Air Force station has been an important base for the nation since the pre-independence era. With this, the IAF will get stronger.”Meanwhile, Haryana home Minister and Ambala cantonment MLA, Anil Vij, said Ambala is eager to welcome Rafale jets on its soil. Ambala city MLA Aseem Goyal appealed to residents to switch on their lights from 7pm to 7.30pm on Wednesday to show their support for the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ahead-of-rafale-touchdown-section-144-imposed-in-area-around-ambala-air-force-station/story-PeEeRiVE0x4YRfB1cMTzPM.html
28-07-2020||Lucknow||500 sanitary workers to clean Ayodhya ahead of PM Modi’s visit for Ram Mandir bhoomi pujan||A mega team of 500 sanitary workers is working round the clock to deck up Ayodhya ahead of PM Narendra Modi’s visit to Ayodhya on August 5 when he will lay foundation stone of Ram Mandir at Ram Janmabhoomi. Akin to celebrations in Prayagraj during Kumbh Mela, walls in main streets in Ayodhya have been decorated with graffiti and paintings depicting scenes from Ramayan era as the Ayodhya Municipal Corporation is leaving nothing to chance for the mega event. “Around 500 sanitary workers have been deployed in Ayodhya to clean the city for bhoomi pujan ceremony. In every ward we are holding meetings to make sure Ayodhya is ready to welcome PM Narendra Modi on August 5,” said Rishikesh Upadhyay, Mayor of Ayodhya. The same set of workers who had toiled at Kumbh Mela in Prayagraj from January 15 to March 4 last year will also be present for the grand event to keep the sprawling Kumbh Mela venue clean. A separate team of BJP workers led by Ayodhya MLA Ved Prakash Gupta is trying to reach out to every household to make sure all houses in temple town are decked –up with lights and earthen diyas for two days from August 4. “We are asking locals to decorate their houses with rangoli, bandanwar (a garland made of flowers), decorative lights and earthen diyas on August 4, 5 for bhoomi pujan of Ram Mandir,” said Ved Prakash Gupta, BJP MLA from Ayodhya assembly constituency. Entire from Saket PG Degree College, Ayodhya upto Hanuman Garhi temple is being renovated by the PWD for the PM’s visit. PM Modi’s helicopter is expected to land to helipad being prepared at Saket Degree College. On the entire route, ‘welcome gates’ also will come up. On this entire route, the Ayodhya Municipal Corporation is getting walls painted depicting various features of Ayodhya. As the PM will also pay obeisance to lord Hanuman and Hanuman Garhi temple, entire temple is being spruced up. Majestic stairs of the historic temples are being cleaned and overhead power cables being removed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/500-sanitary-workers-cleaning-ayodhya-ahead-of-pm-modi-s-visit-for-ram-mandir-bhoomi-pujan/story-xRLNFLMNNZTBAi3NmDGrGO.html
28-07-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University develops device to sanitise currency notes, cheques||Panjab University on Tuesday launched a device that sanitises currency notes and cheques. The device has been developed by PU’s sophisticated analytical instrumentation facility (SAIF) and works on thermal and UV-C disinfection technology.GR Chaudhary, chairperson of SAIF, said, “The device takes only 20 seconds to sanitise a currency note. It works like a print photocopier where you put the currency notes in and collect them one by one after they are sanitised.”“Currently, we are using this device at our own facility as clients pay in cash and cheques,” he added.Earlier, SAIF had developed UV sanitising chamber which can be used to sanitise objects and files. SAIF carries out design, fabrication and repair of electronic instruments and caters mostly to industry and academia in Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan.The device to sanitise currency notes and cheques has been designed by Ramesh Sharma. Chaudhary said him and his team are working on two more advanced projects which will be beneficial for society in the long run. PU vice-chancellor Raj Kumar said, “There is a need for such efforts for the benefit of society in this tough time.”Digital smart rooms set upMeanwhile, Panjab University has set up two smart digital rooms for online video and web conferencing in the computer centre. These smart rooms will provide multiple facilities for different video conferencing solutions, with options for live interaction capabilities with dedicated Internet bandwidth with power backup.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-develops-device-to-sanitise-currency-notes-cheques/story-3YVh9xGkUBoCNWL6qKgItI.html
28-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ambala MC becomes first in Haryana to offer doorstep delivery of services||Taking a page out of the Delhi government’s book, Ambala municipal corporation has become the first in Haryana to start doorstep delivery of services. The service was inaugurated by Ambala city MLA Aseem Goyal and municipal commissioner Partha Gupta at Panchayat Bhawan on Tuesday.The facilities provided will include home delivery of birth, death and marriage certificates where an applicant has to message on a WhatsApp number and pay an extra fee of Rs 100 as service charge.The WhatsApp number 7082335869 will provide details in English and 8572031425 in Hindi. Residents can call 7669300050 if they have any questions related to these facilities.“This will be beneficial for locals as they don’t have to make rounds of the MC office. This will also lead to transparency. Ambala is the first to have this service in Haryana, which is a matter of pride for us,” Goyal said.Municipal commissioner Parth Gupta said the applicant concerned can avail these facilities from 9am to 6pm from Monday to Saturday by sending a message on the given numbers.“After this, the field staff of the MC will call the applicant and confirm if all related documents are complete or not. Then, they will coordinate on a call and the staff will upload all information online through a tab at the applicant’s residence. In addition to facility-related fee, an additional Rs 100 is to be paid as service charges through cash or BHIM app,” he said.“After completion of all formalities, the applicant will get a confirmation number and receive the certificate via courier. There are 14 such facilities that will be started after successful completion of this,” Gupta added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ambala-mc-becomes-first-in-haryana-to-offer-doorstep-delivery-of-services/story-v8pJljM9NhpdLFS8W5jwGP.html
28-07-2020||Chandigarh||Four healthcare workers among 24 Chandigarh residents test positive for Covid-19||Two doctors are among four healthcare workers who tested positive for Covid-19 along with 20 other Chandigarh residents on Tuesday, taking the city’s tally to 934. As many as 321 cases remain active, with 599 people cured so far, 24 of whom were discharged on Tuesday. One of the doctors is from the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, where multiple cases have surfaced in the past one week. A hospital attendant has also tested positive on Tuesday. The other doctor is from Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, while a lab staffer at Government Multi Speciality Hospital, Sector 16, has also contracted the virus.Among the remaining cases, five are from Sector 15. Cases have also been reported from Sectors 22, 23, 32, 40, 46, 48 and 61 besides Hallomajra, Khuda Lahora, Dhanas, Mauli Jagran and Sarangpur.Reports of 56 suspect cases are awaited, while 1,050 people are under quarantine across the city. As many as 14 patients have succumbed to the disease so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/four-healthcare-workers-among-24-chandigarh-residents-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-iaFGKK8eukzfCwiWxafQ1O.html
28-07-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER to receive 25 new ventilators from Centre||The central government has said it will provide 25 more ventilators to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research for augmenting the Covid-19 facility. Currently, out of a total 190 ventilators available with the institute, 20 have been earmarked for the Covid-19 facility established for severely-ill patients at the Nehru Hospital Extension. According to official records, around 18 Covid patients are currently admitted in the intensive care units.Recently, PGIMER had received 10 ventilators from the UT administration under the PM Cares Fund but the institute had reported certain faults with the equipment after which UT had written to the Centre.“The central government had inquired about the need for ventilators and we expressed affirmation. They have promised us quality ventilators at the earliest. The units will be used for augmenting the Covid-19 facility,” said Dr Jagat Ram, director PGIMER. For critically-ill Covid-19 patients, ventilators provide more time to recover by taking over the body’s respiratory processes while the lungs have collapsed due to the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-to-receive-25-new-ventilators-from-centre/story-3mX6smN2Hy1ntWDruRS68M.html
28-07-2020||City||Seven more die in Ludhiana, 146 fresh cases take Covid-19 tally to 2,833||As many as 146 fresh cases of Covid-19 and seven deaths were detected in the district on Tuesday. It is the seventh consecutive day that the district has reported more than 100 positive cases.With this, the total number of positive patients from Ludhiana has gone up to 2,833.Four employees of the civil hospital including a staff nurse and lab technician also tested positive for Covid-19.The casualties include a 75-year- old man from Amritsar, 60- year- old man from Chhawani Mohalla, 67- year-old man from Janta Nagar. A 68-year-old woman from the city died at SPS Hospital near Sherpur Chowk. A 75-year-old man from Shimlapuri succumbed to the virus at Government Rajindra Hospital in Patiala, 61-year-old from Shimplapuri and a 51-year-old woman from Janta Nagar died of Covid-19 on Tuesday. The victims were suffering from underlying conditions such as diabetes, high blood pressure and tuberculosis. The district has reported 71 deaths since March 29 (when the city witnessed the first Covid death), of which 20 deaths have been reported in the last four days. There are 981 active cases in the district. Assistant Commissioner of CGST tests positive, office closed till ThursdayThe Central Goods and Services Tax (CGST) Bhawan, Rishi Nagar will remain closed till Thursday after an assistant commissioner Tejram Meena tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday.As per information, Meena came in contact with another assistant commissioner, who tested positive on July 24. The officers and staff of Ludhiana CGST commissionerate have been directed to work from home. As per the office orders issued by additional commissioner Rajan Lachala, the assistant commissioner who tested positive had last attended a meeting in the office on July 24. The staff who came in contact with the assistant commissioner has been directed to monitor their health and take precautionary measures.Further directions have been issued to get the office building sanitised.Patients complain lack of facilities at civil hospitalCovid-19 patients undergoing treatment at the civil hospital complained about the lack of facilities in the hospital. The patients recorded a video and shared it on social media alleging that they are not provided at the hospital. A patient said that he was admitted to the ward since July 24 and his condition is continuously deteriorating but except for oxygen no other treatment is being offered to him. Civil Surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said that all the complaints of patients are being addressed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/seven-more-die-in-ludhiana-146-fresh-cases-take-covid-19-tally-to-2-833/story-6McaPmDUX9mBjPfITuAQUN.html
28-07-2020||City||Reopen 2007 blasphemy case against Dera Sirsa chief: Pargat to Punjab CM||Congress MLA from Jalandhar cantonment, Pargat Singh, has written to Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday demanding reopening of the 2007 blasphemy case registered against Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim for allegedly getting dressed as Guru Gobind Singh.His letter to CM comes amid heated allegations and counter allegations between the SAD and Congress over action against the dera chief.Pargat told the CM that he has received information that advocate Jaspal Singh Manjhpur, of Ludhiana, has filed a petition in the Punjab and Haryana high court seeking reopening of the case.“I think the CM should take notice of this case through the advocate general and give instructions to take all possible legal action to reopen the 2007 case so that the dera chief can be punished.The former hockey Olympian said that they should expedite investigation in Bargari sacrilege, Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura firing incidents and take the cases to their logical end.He said that it is a political dishonesty that IG rank official of the Punjab Police had given an affidavit in the high court that there was sufficient evidence to prosecute the dera chief in the 2007 case but cancellation report was filed in the court just four days before the 2012 assembly elections.“If the SAD-BJP government led by the then CM Parkash Singh Badal had taken proper action in the case against the dera chief, there would not have been any sacrilege incident,” added Pargat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/reopen-2007-blasphemy-case-against-dera-sirsa-chief-pargat-to-punjab-cm/story-uwvX0XW26hrZZR7loMkI2J.html
28-07-2020||Dehradun||Four Covid-19 positive patients die in Uttarakhand, 259 fresh cases take tally to 6,587||Uttarakhand on Tuesday reported 259 fresh Covid-19 positive cases, taking the state tally to 6,587. According to the health bulletin released by the state health department on Tuesday evening, 259 fresh cases included maximum 108 from US Nagar district. The other districts reported, Almora (10), Bageshwar (1), Chamoli (2), Champawat (5), Dehradun (33), Haridwar (42), Nainital (45) and Tehri (13).The state also reported deaths of four Covid-19 positive patients. An 80-year-old male Covid-19 patient from Hardiwar district died at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Rishikesh on Monday due to refractory septic shock, Covid-19 pneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). Three other deaths were reported from Sushila Tiwari Government Hospital in Haldwani. A 57-year-old male patient died due to severe acute respiratory I illness, respiratory distress, bilateral pneumonitis, severe metabolic acidosis, dyselectrolytemia, hyperkalemia, and hyperglycemia. A 50-year-old male patient from US Nagar district died due to bilateral pneumonitis, ARDS, Type 2 respiratory failure. Another 50-year-old male died due to asthma, type 2 diabetes mellitus, systemic hypertention, shock, hypoglycemia, type 1 respiratory failure, bilateral pneumonitis and anoxic encephalopathy A total of 70 Covid-19 positive patients have died in Uttarakhand till now with 11 patients dying due to coronavirus, according to the health officials. The rest of the positive patients died due to co-morbidities and other causes, added health officials. Of the 224 fresh cases reported on Tuesday, 96 cases were contacts of earlier detected positive patients, two were army personnel with travel history from Agra, seven were healthcare workers from US Nagar district and 22 cases were detected at flu clinics. A total of 45 Covid-19 patients were also discharged from different hospitals in the state on Tuesday with a maximum 41 from Dehradun district. The rate of doubling of cases based on the last seven days now stands at 24.25 days, while the infection rate is 4.67%. The state has so far tested over 1.50 lakh samples of which results of over 5700 are awaited. Taking cognizance of the deaths of eight patients at Sushila Tiwari Hospital, Nainital district magistrate has directed the chief medical officer to review the death audit of these patients and submit a report within seven days. Meanwhile, 52-year-old person quarantine at an institutional facility in Ramnagar, Nainital district died on Tuesday. The deceased’s body has been sent for post-mortem examination. Officials said that the deceased worked at a government hospital in Ramnagar where he came in contact with a Covid-19 positive patient on July 23, after which he was quarantined. The deceased was an epileptic patient who had been taking medicines, but was found unconscious in his room on Tuesday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/four-covid-19-positive-patients-die-in-uttarakhand-259-fresh-cases-take-tally-to-6-587/story-Jf2C1vZZh5JbwwSuSpYGRI.html
28-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh adviser says admn helpless in removing beggars, but experts beg to differ||UT adviser Manoj Parida’s recent Twitter appeal to Chandigarh residents “not to give money to beggars who rush to you at traffic points” has in turn highlighted the administration’s failure to solve the problem despite laws and infrastructure in place.Parida’s appeal invited a mixed response as he cautioned people that beggars “could be corona spreaders”, and expressed helplessness, stating that: “We can’t jail them since beggary is not a crime. When put in shelter homes, they run away to make money from streets.”The same sense of helplessness pervades down the UT administration hierarchy. Harjinder Kaur, chairperson of the Chandigarh Commission for Protection of Child Rights, said: “We keep conducting drives, but without Mohali and Panchkula’s cooperation, it is very difficult to solve the problem in the city.” Kaur said most of the children removed from streets are from the two satellite cities, and they can’t be rehabilitated without their parents’ permission.118 DRIVES SINCE APRIL 2019Navjot Kaur, director, social welfare, said: “During awareness drives, a head count of beggars was conducted in 2018-19. Approximately 50 adult beggars and 80 to 100 children were covered.” Since April 2019, 118 anti-beggary rescue drives have been carried out in convergence with other stakeholders, wherein 51 children have been rescued, she said.“Rescued children are later admitted to shelters and need-based interventions, like education, vocational training and bridge courses, are provided to them. Adult beggars are presented before the magistrate, and if admitted to an institute, they are provided with some professional skill. Psychiatry treatment is also provided,” she said.ADMN CANNOT SHIRK RESPONSIBILITYEven as the administration contends that teams have been constituted under three subdivisional magistrates, children homes have been constructed and services of adoption agencies have been availed, on the ground the problem has only worsened. Residents agree that giving money to beggars should be avoided, but also argue that the administration cannot shirk its responsibility.Stating that the problem is becoming acute by the day, Baljinder Singh Bittu, chairman, Federation of Sector Welfare Associations of Chandigarh (FOSWAC), said: “As soon as there is a red signal at a crossing, beggars, both adult and children, rush to vehicles and harass people to dole out money. It is a big mafia that exploits people’s empathy.”“Even if we accept the adviser’s reasoning that people cannot be arrested for begging, they can at least be removed for obstructing traffic and arrested for exploiting children,” said Hitesh Puri, chairman, Chandigarh Resident Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED).LEGAL FRAMEWORK AVAILABLEIn reply to Parida’s tweet, Rajesh Jogpal, a Haryana-cadre Indian Administrative Services (IAS) officer and former Panchkula MC commissioner, highlighted: “The Chandigarh administration has adopted Haryana Prevention of Beggary Act 1971, under which beggary is a crime. Chandigarh has three certified institutions to house arrested beggar. Sure the beggars can’t be jailed, but after being arrested, they can be put in these institutions.”This was also admitted by the administration in the Punjab and Haryana high court in January 2019.Stating adequate legal provisions are available for stopping begging, Ajay Jagga, a city-based advocate, said: “Begging can be split into two parts: just begging and use of children for begging. As far as adult beggars or for that matter vendors of goods at traffic points are concerned, the drive has to be conducted by both the MC (for removing these encroachers) and police (to ensure free flow of traffic).”Those who are using children for begging can be booked under Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, he said.Prof Devi Sirohi, former chairperson of the CCPCR, emphasised regular monitoring and coordinated effort by different government agencies to solve the problem, “In 2016, we had conducted a survey for estimating its scale. By the beginning of 2017, we could achieve much success, but, this is an ongoing exercise. Constant monitoring is a must if the problem is to be solved.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-adviser-says-admn-helpless-in-removing-beggars-but-experts-beg-to-differ/story-0hSnP8yzwhULxjqAMCWABM.html
28-07-2020||City||PMC appeals to state government to help set up jumbo medical facilities||PUNE: Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has asked the state government to provide financial assistance for setting up jumbo medical facilities in the city. Hemant Rasne, PMC standing committee chairman said, “The civic body is facing a financial crisis. It has already spent Rs250 crore for Covid-related work. To ease the monetary strain, the Maharashtra government must provide funds to erect three jumbo Covid care centres in the city.” Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar has approved three jumbo Covid care centres with a combined capacity of 2,400 beds. The minister has asked the Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal commissioners to set up these centres in the city as the number of critical patients is set to rise in the coming days as per the projected figures released by civic officials. Though Pawar had given instructions to erect these centres, there is no clarity on who will bear the cost. Bharatiya Janata Party’s Rasne, said, “The civic body is trying its best to control the virus spread, but the state government is also expected to help us financially.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-appeals-to-state-government-to-help-set-up-jumbo-medical-facilities/story-ZjFQpOZkuVmtKBRAMK7XxN.html
28-07-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai records its wettest July, breaks all-time high monthly rain record||The city surpassed its July 2014 record (1,468.5mm) for the all-time high monthly rainfall on Tuesday with intermittent intense rain spells taking the monthly rain tally to 1,474.3 mm from July 1 to July 28 5.30pm.On Tuesday, south Mumbai recorded intermittent intense spells through the day with 83.6 mm (heavy) rain from 8.30 am to 5.30 pm while the suburbs recorded 7.7 mm rain. Over the last 24 hours moderate rain was recorded in the suburbs and south Mumbai.A yellow alert (heavy rain warning) was issued for Wednesday and Saturday by the weather bureau.Read latest updates on Mumbai rains here. Meanwhile, the city had surpassed its July average rain target of 840 mm in the first 15 days itself, and has currently recorded 75.5% excess rain for the month. Mumbai has witnessed a total of eight heavy to very heavy rain days this month, which paved the way for previous records to be broken.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) maintains rain data from 1959 onwards. Though Mumbai received 944.2 mm rain during July 2005, the monthly total was 1454.5 mm. Last year, the city had recorded 1,464.8 mm rain during July. Other landmark years over the past 61 years include 1,455.5 mm in 1965, 1,385.5 mm in 1961, 1,312.9 in 2011, 1,250.4 in 2010, and 1,226.1 mm in 1988.IMD classifies 15.6-64.4 mm as moderate rain while 64.5-115.5 mm rain as heavy, 115.6-204.4 mm as very heavy, and over 204.5 mm as extremely heavy rain for a period of 24-hours. The city witnessed five ‘very heavy’ rain days through the month so far with maximum rain recorded between July 4 and 5 at 200.8 mm followed by 191.2 mm on July 15-16. Additionally three ‘heavy’ rain days. Apart from July 2, the city has received rainfall every day of the month.Also read: Mumbai records its second highest July rain in 44 years, highest in 10 yearsIMD officials said rain during July was consistent as opposed to the pattern during June. Mumbai witnessed a deficient rain during June with the lowest rainfall in five years as the city fell 98 mm short of its monthly average target. “Weather systems in the Arabian Sea and larger factors such as a weak positive Indian Ocean Dipole (IOD) - an ocean-atmosphere phenomenon with difference in sea surface temperatures characterised by cooling in parts of Indian Ocean leading to enhanced rain - ensured active monsoon conditions through most of the month allowing westerly winds to bring in a lot of moisture over the city,” said a senior IMD official.Professor Sridhar Balasubramanian, department of mechanical engineering and IDP Climate Studies, Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay said weather synoptic conditions were more active in Arabian Sea than Bay of Bengal, resulting in good rains over Mumbai during July. “Positive IOD indicates a warm pool of water in the west Arabian Sea (near Somalia). This is good for bringing moisture over to the west coast. The favorable IOD was witnessed last year as well. The presence of a moderate to strong offshore trough throughout July ensured steady and consistent rains breaking an all-time record,” he said.Thundershowers were reported on at least 15 days in July as against the normal of three days for Mumbai, said Akshay Deoras, independent meteorologist and PhD researcher at the University of Reading, United Kingdom. “A preliminary analysis suggests that the number of rainy days in Santacruz this July has been higher than the normal of 23 days. Intense rain on most days occurred after midnight instead of early afternoon. Thus, increased thunderstorm activity seems to have played a major role in enhancing rainfall,” he said.Also read | 10 yrs of 26/7 deluge: Is Mumbai better prepared? Answer is ‘No’Though the city received excess rain for the month, showers evaded catchment areas. Even as Tulsi Lake overflowed on Tuesday, water stock across seven lakes supplying water to Mumbai was 32.7% of the required amount. Last year, it was 75% of the required quantum by this period. “Since catchment areas are located further interior from the coast, cloud bands have not penetrated owing to weak wind drag. However, this is likely to change in August as the Bay of Bengal gets ready to churn a system,” said Balasubramanian adding, “The city could expect above normal rain for August.”Mumbai has so far received 82.6% of its seasonal average rainfall from June 1 to July 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-its-wettest-july-breaks-all-time-high-monthly-rain-record/story-9HrxP2n7JHZoxdj75zU4FI.html
28-07-2020||Chandigarh||Prostitution racket busted in Chandigarh’s Burail village: Woman among six persons held, three girls rescued||In continuation with the drive against organised crime in the city, the police on Tuesday said they have busted another prostitution racket operating from Burail village.Accused Pardeep Poodar and Jawahar Poddar, both residents of Dhanas, who were running a hotel on lease basis, along with Puneet Kumar and Raju Kumar, both hailing from Nainital and working as agents for arranging customers, were arrested.A woman from Udhampur, Jammu, who was running the racket, was also arrested. The accused were produced before the court on Tuesday and sent to judicial custody.This is second such raid in the city and comes a day after another prostitution racket operating in Kajheri was busted with the rescue of 10 girls and arrest of five persons.On the intervening night of July 27/28, acting on a tip-off, the police conducted a raid on a hotel in Burail from where three girls aged between 19 and 22 years, were rescued. The girls were from different areas in Punjab and were educated. They, too, were produced before the duty magistrate and later released. During investigation, it came to light that the girls had been forcibly pushed into the flesh trade by the hotel owner and the Udhampur woman.A case under the Immoral Trafficking Act was registered on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/prostitution-racket-busted-in-chandigarh-s-burail-village-woman-among-six-persons-held-three-girls-rescued/story-nowEiFDl0JmBbVdLwZPlwL.html
28-07-2020||City||37-year-old dies after falling into lift shaft||A 37-year-old labourer on Monday died after falling into lift shaft from the second floor of three storeyed Navjeevan Dyeing unit in Dombivli, on Tuesday. His body was sent to Rukminibai Civic Hospital for post-mortem. Manpada police have registered a case of accidental death and are investigating the case. The incident took place on Monday, followed by which the labourer Omkar Gupta who suffered severe injuries was taken to the Shivam Hospital. Gupta succumbed to his injuries on Tuesday. His body was sent to Rukminibai Civic Hospital for post-mortem. Manpada police have registered a case of accidental death and is investigating the case. The video of the labourer, Omkar Gupta, a resident of Shivaji Nagar, Pisavali village, Kalyan-Shil road, entering the lift with a cart, comprising sack of textiles and falling down the shaft went viral on social media on Tuesday. In the video, Gupta is seen working, while the manual gate of the lift is open. He pushes the cart and walks into the lift. As the lift was on the third floor, Gupta along with the cart fell in the empty space in the shaft. Manpada police have registered accidental death report and the investigation is underway. The police also inspected the company. “We have registered an accidental death case and are investigating the case. If any negligence is proved from the company’s side, then a case under section 304 A will be registered,” said D K Choure, senior police inspector, Manpada police station. Omkar was the sole bread winner for his family comprising wife and two children, father, mother and a brother. He worked in shifts at the company. Management in charge of the company Kailash Karle said, “There are two lifts side by side. The lift’s gate needs to be opened when the lift carriage arrives. The worker might have opened the lift door in advance, and kept waiting for the lift. He might have not realised that the lift was on the third floor. We have been co-operating with the police and also helped with hospital expenses, but unfortunately he succumbed to the injuries.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/37-year-old-dies-after-falling-into-lift-shaft/story-OkPKmTuz5zJ3CgyS0VVy6J.html
28-07-2020||Chandigarh||UT hospitals allow home isolation for suspected Covid-19 cases||Chandigarh Hospitals in the city are now allowing people suspected to have contracted Covid-19 and awaiting test results to isolate at home, officials have said.Earlier it was mandatory for such cases to admitted in hospital isolation wards until the test reports confirmed their condition.People are currently being sampled at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32 and Government Multi-Specialty Hospital in Sector 16. UT health secretary Arun Gupta said the step has been taken for the optimisation of resources. “The home isolation option was not followed earlier here but with the rising number of tests we have decided that the persons who have the requisite facilities at their residence can be isolated there. This will help us test more persons than before,” Gupta added.However, those opting for home facilities will have to sign an undertaking similar to one given by a confirmed case for isolation. Rules in such cases will require persons to stay in a well-ventilated room separated from others at home, especially the elderly and those with comorbid conditions such as hypertension, cardiovascular disease, renal disease and follow respiratory hygiene/cough etiquette.Also, personal items will not be shared and the isolated person will have to -monitor his/her health, taking temperature daily and reporting to health authorities immediately in case of health problems.Caregivers with the isolated persons are also required to follow all the precautions.₹2,000 fine for violating rulesUT health secretary Arun Gupta has said that violations in home isolation rules will be technically dealt with under rules notified earlier for home quarantine. Anyone breaking rules will be fined ₹2,000 and in case of non-payment will attract proceedings under Section 188 of IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ut-hospitals-allow-home-isolation-for-suspected-covid-19-cases/story-3kmgtNuKcZJHrgJ1L1LH5I.html
28-07-2020||Chandigarh||50,000 smartphones ready for distribution to Class 11, 12 girls: Punjab CM||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday said that his government received the first batch of 50,000 smartphones that are to be distributed among girl students of Classes 11 and 12.The CM said that priority will be given to students who do not have smartphones so that their online learning can be facilitated amid the covid crisis. The smartphones were received from a company which clarified that it had no connections to China,” he said during a video conference with Punjab Youth Congress president Birender Dhillon and his team.The Congress, in its manifesto for the 2017 state polls, had promised smartphones with one year free data and calling for youth. Last year, it had decided to start with school students, but then kept missing deadline.The CM asked chief principal secretary Suresh Kumar to designate an officer to provide regular inputs to the Youth Congress on government achievements and critical issues, such as the Bargari case investigation, to enable them to check spread of misinformation among people.He directed deputy commissioners and senior superintendents of police to interact regularly with the district presidents of the Punjab Youth Congress to resolve issues.‘BARGARI CASE GETTING DELAYED DUE TO CBI’Captain said that the Bargari case is getting delayed due to CBI’s refusal to hand over the investigation and return the case file. He said that false propaganda is being spread by the Opposition and it needs to be countered effective.The CM said the state government had fulfilled 435 of 562 promises listed in the 2017 poll manifesto, and is on track to implement the rest in the current term.On complaints of rampant corruption at lower levels, he assured immediate probe into the matter by the vigilance bureau.He added that student elections at public universities will be held as soon as the Covid situation improves, and in the second phase, the private institutions are to follow the suit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/50-000-smartphones-ready-for-distribution-to-class-11-12-girls-punjab-cm/story-2mcNMajgYlNYFsojv0N7OO.html
28-07-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra adds 7,717 Covid-19 cases in day, 10,333 recover; 282 die||The Covid-19 tally in Maharashtra rose to 3,91,440 on Tuesday with addition of 7,717 new cases, state Health Minister Rajesh Tope said.With 282 patients succumbing to the infection, the death toll mounted to 14,165, he said.A total of 10,333 patients were discharged in the day, taking the number of recovered cases in the state to 2,32,277 while the count of active cases dropped from 1,47,592 on Monday to 1,44,694 on Tuesday, the health minister said.A total of 19,68,559 people have been tested so far in the state.After a long gap, Mumbai, which has been steadily reporting more than 1,000 cases every day, added just 700 cases in the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-adds-7-717-covid-19-cases-in-day-10-333-recover-282-die/story-9flQjOzlztCOavgwf0zWFP.html
28-07-2020||Chandigarh||Fee payment issue: Parents complain against Chandigarh school for threatening to take action against students||In a new development, the parents of students studying in Saupin’s School, Sector 32, have filed a complaint against school management for allegedly threatening to take action against their wards should they fail to deposit fees till July 31.The complaint has been submitted with the Chandigarh Commission for Protection of Child Rights (CCPCR). “Without waiting for the decision of the fee regulatory committee, the management of Saupin’s School, through constant reminders, has threatened that if I fail to deposit the full fee by July 31, they will take serious and immediate action against my ward(s),” said a parent, adding that this amounted to mental cruelty and duress, which was affecting their child’s wellbeing as well right to education.“We have already raised our concerns with the fee regulatory committee of the education department and we have not received their decision yet. Schools should cooperate with parents and not threaten to take action against our wards,” said another parent.President of Chandigarh Parents Association Nitin Goyal said, “The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights has said that if there is an issue over fee, the school cannot involve the students in it or threaten parents to take action against their wards.”CCPCR chairperson Harjinder Kaur said, “We will look into the matter and address it soon.”The director of Saupin’s School, Aamrbir Sindhu, however, denied the allegations. “Nothing has been said to threaten the wards. These complaints are false,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fee-payment-issue-parents-complain-against-chandigarh-school-for-threatening-to-take-action-against-students/story-JhsCJ0Qr7r7Bu8RcDDgcEL.html
28-07-2020||Pune||Shop owners in Katraj, Satara road and Ambegaon protest against ‘odd-even’ rule||At leat 200 shop owners from Katraj, Satara road and Ambegaon areas shut their stores on Tuesday to protest against the ‘odd-even’ rule implemented in business areas by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) post the lockdown. As per the order, on even dates shops on one side of the road will be open while those on the other side will resume business on odd days. Traders in the Dattanagar– Jambulwadi road area in Katraj put up banners on their shop shutters and demanded cancellation of the odd-even rule. “We have been struggling to survive since the past three-four months because of the lockdown. After the second lockdown ended, we all started our shops again with a hope that our financial conditions will improve. However, all of us were orally told by Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials on Monday that we need to keep our shops open as per P1 and P2 regulations. The rule is not acceptable and so immediately we closed our shops to protest against this order,” said Vaibhav Dhekane, executive president of Dattanagar-Jambhulwadi road traders’ association. PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar, said, “The odd-even rules for shop owners has not been decided by us. It is a regulation of the Maharashtra government. We need to wait for the revised regulations issued by the state government in this regard and once it comes, we will work accordingly. However, till then, I appeal to all the shop owners to please cooperate with us and be safe.” On Tuesday, traders gathered at Dattanagar chowk at 10am. A group of traders also approached other shops in the area and requested them to participate in the protest by keeping their shops closed. “It was our first protest and we submitted our demand letter to the PMC’s Dhankawadi ward office. They should not test our patience. We will keep our shops open tomorrow. We are ready to face any kind of action from the PMC and police, association members will protest against this regulation again,” added Dhekane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/shop-owners-in-katraj-satara-road-and-ambegaon-protest-against-odd-even-rule/story-LwXigyo1hvVhraRE5BDLSO.html
28-07-2020||Chandigarh||Labourer rapes 14-year-old girl he befriended||The police have arrested a 19-year-old labourer for sexually assaulting a 14-year-old girl he befriended.Ajay Kumar, 19, of Panj Peer road works with a mason and befriended the teenaged girl a month ago when he worked in a building near a house where she works as a domestic help.In her police complaint, the victim’s mother said her daughter had come back home late from work on July 25 and narrated the incident when asked for the reason for delay. She said Kumar asked her to accompany him to a park but instead took her to a house and raped her. He also issued threats to her to keep her quiet.Sub inspector Manjinder Kaur, who is investigating the case, said Kumar was arrested after the complaint was lodged on Monday.A case was registered under section 376 (Rape), 506 (Criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and section 3, 4, 5and 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/labourer-rapes-14-year-old-girl-he-befriended/story-9t3Zg8qgAoeMdcOlvFlp2K.html
28-07-2020||City||HP police, social justice department to prepare action plan to tackle crime against women||Himachal Pradesh Police along with the social justice and empowerment department will prepare an action plan to tackle the rising crime against women in the state.The decision was taken at an interactive session concerning the issue of safety of women and children. Director general of police Sanjay Kundu said, “Criminal justice system alone cannot address the problem as it has deep rooted causes in the social setup which is infested with gender inequality and discrimination. Law enforcement agencies are only a part of the response system and it does not cater to elimination of the root causes.” Additional chief secretary of social justice and empowerment department emphasised on the need to work for empowering women and protecting their rights. “Promotion of gender equality, women empowerment, ensuring their human rights and overall well being needs to be brought into focus,” she said, while lauding the Himachal police’s initiative to tackle crime against women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-police-social-justice-department-to-prepare-action-plan-to-tackle-crime-against-women/story-9JfeU0qkAoLkGCscvhyn2J.html
28-07-2020||City||LG dedicates 49 electricity projects to public in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Girish Chandra Murmu dedicated 49 electricity projects to public for augmenting power distribution infrastructure in the Union territory. He also laid the foundation stone for seven new sub-stations. The inaugurated projects primarily include capacity addition at 33/11 KV level by way of construction of new 33/11 KV sub-stations and capacity enhancement of existing sub-stations. “...the Lt Governor dedicated to public the underground cabling work at Patnitop tourist spot yesterday. The e-inauguration of the project was done from Raj Bhawan and simultaneously at Patnitop in presence of deputy commissioner Udhampur,” an official spokesman said. The project will improve power supply to the tourist spot, the spokesman said. Murmu also dedicated to public a new sub-station constructed at Birpur for industrial complex Bari Brahmna which will benefit industrial units. As many as 10 additional power transformers of different capacities at 10 locations of Kartholi, Greater Kailash, Bari Brahmna, Sidhra, Sunderpur, New Secretariat, Suhagpur, Jourian, Mareen and Katra were also inaugurated and dedicated to the public by the L-G. These additional transformers will benefit about 1,80,000 people in Jammu, Kathua and Reasi districts, the spokesman said. The Lt Governor also dedicated to public projets for capacity enhancement of 37 sub-stations by replacing them with higher capacity transformers at a cost of Rs 130.2 crore. Further, the Lt Governor laid the foundation stone for construction of seven new sub-stations in Rajouri, Poonch and Jammu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lg-dedicates-49-electricity-projects-to-public-in-j-k/story-8Nyr0RP6tBLc8fxtuJjKLP.html
28-07-2020||City||Heavy rainfall likely in Himachal till August 3||An advisory for landslides and heavy rainfall has been issued for the next few days in Himachal Pradesh by the state meteorological department. An orange warning in Bilaspur, Hamirpur, Chamba, Kangra, Mandi, Shimla, Solan and Sirmaur districts for July 29 resulting in heavy rainfall, thunderstorms and lightning at isolated places has been issued. Besides, yellow weather warnings in middle and lower hills for July 30 and in middle hills for July 31 and August 1 is also issued by the MeT. State MeT director Manmohan Singh said rainfall is very likely to continue throughout the state till August 3. People are also advised to check traffic routes before leaving home. On Tuesday, rains lashed parts of the state.The maximum and minimum temperatures were normal as no appreciable change was recorded. Highest rainfall in the state occured in Nagrota Surian town in Kangra district which witnessed 62 mm rain followed by Ghamroor which received 56 mm rain. Sujanpur Tira in Hamirpur district received 32 mm rain, Dharamshala received 30.6 mm, Amb in Una district received 30mm, Bilaspur witnessed 21 mm, Hamirpur received 18 mm while Shimla received 6.7 mm rain. Maximum temperature in Shimla was 23.3°C while it was 18.4°C in Kufri. Prominent hill stations including Manali recorded 24.6°C maximum temperature, Dalhousie in Chamba district recorded 21.7°C. and maximum temperatures in Dharamshala 30.4°C. Maximum temperature in Solan was 31.5°C, 31°C in Bilaspur, 30.8°C in Hamirpur and 29.8°C in Nahan. Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district was coldest at 12.6°C while Una was the hottest place in the state at 36.2°C maximum temperature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/heavy-rainfall-likely-in-himachal-till-august-3/story-chyiKsJBiLervwqIMlwONL.html
28-07-2020||Delhi||Raksha Bandhan 2020: Denizens send rakhis to corona warriors||Across the country, and even abroad, sisters have started sending rakhis, to their brothers, ahead of Raksha Bandhan (August 3). Wrapped in envelops with a few grains of rice and a pinch of roli/tika, these rakhis that are symbolic of the love shared between siblings, have now become carriers of ‘thank you’; for those who have been frontline warriors at the war against corona. To recognise the selfless service of doctors and police personnel, amid the pandemic, residents of Delhi-NCR have taken up something special. “Doctors have been the backbone of our country in this pandemic. They are the true protectors and that’s why the women in our residential society have started sending rakhis to hospitals such as AIIMS and GTB. We will also send rakhis to our nearby police station. The cops must feel that we value their protection,” says Santi Sankar, a resident of DLF Phase 1, Gurugram. Families of Covid-19 survivors are taking this festival as an opportunity to express gratitude to the docs who protected lives of their dear ones. “My husband recently recovered from Covid-19, and I’ve huge respect for the services that the doctors are rendering, to protect us all from the virus. At this moment, they are the true soldiers. Therefore, I felt that making a handmade rakhi and card along with my children will be a sweet way to say thank you to our doctor, and also teach children the real meaning of the bond of protection that Raksha Bandhan is all about,” says Malvika Khanna, a resident of Greater Kailash. Doctors who are receiving rakhis are feeling touched by this gesture. “My brother is a doctor and he has been getting rakhis via couriers to his house, clinic and even the hospital that he visits. They are often addressed to ‘corona warriors’. A lot of the packets are accompanied with a handwritten thank you note,” says Avantika Mishra, a resident of DLF Phase II. And Dr Devina Bajpayee, a resident of Vasant Kunj, adds, “I feel overwhelmed to receive so much love from my patients. Originally rakhis have been for brothers, but for every rakhi that I have received for myself, I feel immense gratitude. Kids of some of my patients have also sent me their drawings where doctors wearing rakhi are sketched... The festival of rakhi is indeed going to be special this year.”Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFor more stories follow Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/raksha-bandhan-2020-denizens-send-rakhis-to-corona-warriors/story-jjjWm2MV1xJsX5PJWkYYQK.html
28-07-2020||Pune||PMC to appoint final-year medical college students at Covid care centres||The standing committee of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Tuesday approved a proposal to hire students from various medical colleges in their final year to work at Covid-19 care centres.The PMC has been facing a shortage of manpower within their health infrastructure to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic and had sought help from private doctors on a contract basis. However, the civic body received a poor response from private doctors and hence, municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar floated the proposal in front of the standing committee.The standing committee approved the proposal to hire medical college students and interns at the Covid-19 care centres and fixed payments for them.Kumar in his proposal stated that the PMC tried to appoint doctors for a six-month contract, twice, and even issued appointment letters to these doctors, but very few of them joined duty. “As the Covid-19 cases are increasing in the city and the medical infrastructure is also improving, we are hiring more medical staff. Recently guardian minister Ajit Pawar asked us to appoint final-year medical students or who are doing internship, at Covid centres. As decided in the meeting, PMC is appointing medical students from various colleges.”Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne, said, “We have given a nod to the administration’s proposal to appoint students from medical colleges. PMC standing committee approved the stipend as suggested by the administration.”These students have already completed their medical education and are either practising or completing their internship. Some of them are also volunteers at the PMC and government hospitals, claimed officials from the administration.Payment planStanding committee of the Pune Municipal Corporation approved the following stipend for medical college students who will work with the civic body:MBBS student- Rs30,000 per monthBAMS student- Rs25,000 per monthBHMS student- 20,000 per monthMBBS student in any year rather than final year - Rs500 per dayNursing college student - Rs400 per dayStudent for swab test- Rs100 per day||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-to-appoint-final-year-medical-college-students-at-covid-care-centres/story-DchFvbuoA2G4CfhSGWwEdJ.html
28-07-2020||City||Jagraon man booked for raping minor niece multiple times||The city Jagraon police have booked a man for raping his minor niece for three years. According to information, the accused also ‘terminated’ her pregnancy.The police have also booked the girl’s maternal grandmother for threatening her not to reveal the incident to anyone. The minor’s mother, who was in Dubai for three years has filed a complaint with the police.In her complaint, she said that her minor daughter with living her mother and sister for three years and when she came back home in March this year, her daughter narrated her ordeal to her. The complainant said that her sister’s husband was raping her daughter for three years and impregnated her.Sub-Inspector Kirandeep Kaur, who is investigating the case, said that a case under Sections 376 (punishment for rape) and 120-B (punishment of criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act has been registered against the accused.A hunt is on to nab the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jagraon-man-booked-for-raping-minor-niece-multiple-times/story-OkZfSrVFmw8hOkYv15d2YI.html
28-07-2020||City||58-year-old Kalka man is Panchkula’s 2nd Covid fatality||A 58-year-old man from Kalka died on Tuesday, becoming second Covid fatality in Panchkula, while 15 more cases were reported from across the district.The total count has reached 452, of which 228 cases remain active. The Kalka man was diagnosed with Covid-19 and bilateral pneumonia with acute respiratory failure, stated a release. He was hospitalised on July 25, after complaining of breathlessness, drowsiness and fever for two days.The district had recorded its first Covid death on July 25, when a 75-year-old woman from Shahpur succumbed to the disease. Earlier, on July 2, too, an elderly woman was reported to have died of the disease, though 20 days later, the health department audit found it to be a non-Covid case.Those who tested positive on Tuesday include two elderly patients – a 78-year-old man and 70-year-old woman from Maheshpur — and a 12-year-old boy from the same area. Two cases, of a woman and a teenager, were reported from Bir Ghaggar, while a case each surfaced in Sector 23 and Surajpur. Apart from them, four personnel of the ITBP camp in Bhanu also tested positive.With 222 patients being cured so far, the district’s recovery rate stands at 49%, while case fatality rate is 0.44%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/58-year-old-kalka-man-is-panchkula-s-2nd-covid-fatality/story-6QGUS6JGSY4v7xY4t2QCAN.html
28-07-2020||City||Two men booked under Excise Act in Panchkula||In two separate FIRs registered by the Panchkula police on Tuesday under the Punjab Excise Act, 1914, two persons were booked, one for illegally transporting liquor and another for drinking alcohol in a public place.In the first case, a patrolling party received information that one Satbir Singh, a resident of Hallo Majra, Chandigarh, was ferrying liquor across states illegally. A naka was laid near Himachal Dhaba, Rajeev Colony, in Sector 17, Panchkula. When they stopped Satbir’s car, he tried to escape but was nabbed. On checking the vehicle, the police found 624 quarters of liquor for which Satbir could not produce any licence or permit.In the second case, Nathu, a resident of Gandhi Colony, was booked for drinking liquor in a public place. Police said Nathu had been walking on the road in an inebriated state with a liquor bottle in his hand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-men-booked-under-excise-act-in-panchkula/story-5LxKuAgaaU1NKHtj38am9K.html
28-07-2020||Chandigarh||65-year-old woman brick kiln owner hacked to death in Ludhiana||Two motorcycle borne men wearing helmets with visors used sharp-edged weapons to attack and kill brick kiln owner Rachhpal Kaur, 65, at Shahpur village of Payal town here on Monday evening.Police, who suspect it to be the work of contract killers, said the men took just 15 seconds to execute the crime and attacked Kaur with the intention to murder.Simrajit Singh, son-in-law of the victim, was present at the kiln on Monday morning when the killers struck. As one man waited with the vehicle, his accomplice, carrying the weapon concealed in a plastic bag, walked towards Kaur who was standing near the door and aimed for her neck.The two then fled towards Doraha.Kaur was taken to a local hospital, from where she was referred to the Satguru Partap Singh Hospital in Ludhiana. Doctors over there, however, declared her dead.Rachhpal Kaur and her son were taking care of the kiln after the death of her husband, Sukhdev Singh, in 2017 in a road accident. They had earlier given it on lease but later she took over.Harpreet Singh, Khanna senior superintendent of police, reached the crime scene with his team after being informed about the killing. Inspector Karnail Singh, station house officer at Payal police station said the police came to know about the incident on Tuesday morning. Investigations were initiated with professional rivalry or family enmity angles being probed and CCTV camera footage was being scanned. Moga man arrested for wife’s murder  A 40-year-old woman was allegedly murdered by her husband at their house in Landeke in Moga district late on Monday night. The police have arrested Jagdish Singh, 50, and sent the body for post-mortem. DSP Barjinder Singh said that after having heated argument with his wife Sarabjeet Kaur, the accused attacked on her head and she died on the spot. Sarabjeet was living separately from her husband and children from almost a year and came back home on Monday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/65-year-old-woman-brick-kiln-owner-killed-with-sharp-edged-weapon/story-JRcoQNwLH6KrLiznJPug8H.html
28-07-2020||Kolkata||‘Isolation lockups for those who contract Covid-19 in custody’: Kolkata police||The police in Kolkata have floated the idea of ‘isolation lockups’ to quarantine arrested persons who develop Covid-19 symptoms during interrogation. The move comes after more than a dozen police officials of the city police’s detective department had to be quarantined earlier this month after an accused, who was sent to police custody for interrogation, developed Covid-19 symptoms and was later detected with the virus. One officer in the team has already tested positive. “We are planning to set up isolation lockups in the headquarters so that arrested persons who develop Covid-19 symptoms could be quarantined and isolated from other arrested persons,” said a senior officer of the Kolkata police. During this period of lockdown, the incidents of crime have dropped drastically. On an average, Kolkata police register 1400–1500 crime incidents every month. In April, this number dropped to around 300 after pan-India lockdown was put in place on March 25. In June, around 900 cases were registered.Local police stations have been asked to look for such arrangements where isolation lockups could be set up. Officials said that not all police stations may have the necessary infrastructure.More than 1,000 cases have been detected in West Bengal Police till date. Three police personnel have died. Local police stations are also booking hotels and community centres that will act as temporary barracks. In some police stations, glass cubicles are being set up where officers can meet people coming to the police stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/isolation-lockups-for-those-who-contract-covid-19-in-custody-kolkata-police/story-03bcwN5ao4mXbn5XTPc11I.html
28-07-2020||Dehradun||Two dead, one missing after houses damaged in heavy rains in Uttarakhand||Two persons died while another went missing after muck caused by heavy rains entered houses in separate incidents in Pithoragarh and Chamoli districts on Tuesday, said officials.In one of the incidents, which happened in Pithoragarh district, one woman died after she got trapped under muck which entered her house in Melti village. The deceased was identified as Radha Devi. “In another similar incident, another woman identified as Kalavati Devi is missing after she was swept away by strong rain water flow in Jarajibli village. Efforts are on by search and rescue team for finding her body,” said AK Shukla, sub-divisional magistrate monitoring the situation. In the other incident in Pader village of Chamoli district, a 35-year-old woman died after she was buried under muck that entered her house due to heavy rains in the area on Tuesday. Ravendra Singh, district information officer said, “The woman identified as Deveshwari Devi was killed after she got buried under muck inside her house. Her 13-year-old daughter who was with her, suffered minor injuries but was rescued.”“Meanwhile in the other incident in nearby Bura village, several houses were damaged but there was no loss of human life. However, several cattle died in it. Authorities went to the affected village and after evaluating the damage have initiated the process of compensation to villagers,” said Singh. With Tuesday’s incident, the death toll in Uttarakhand due to heavy rains in last about one week has increased to 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/two-dead-one-missing-after-houses-damaged-in-heavy-rains-in-uttarakhand/story-1H9RvIxk6ipTzniEfrDV8K.html
28-07-2020||Chandigarh||Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua sworn in as Himachal high court judge||Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua was on Tuesday sworn in as a judge of the Himachal Pradesh high court. Keeping with Covid-19 guidelines, no formal ceremony was held and the oath-taking ceremony was telecast on YouTube.She was administered an oath of office by chief justice L Narayana Swamy at the high court. Before this, she was serving as an additional judge of the high court. HP high court judge justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan, justice Sureshwar Thakur, justice Vivek Singh Thakur, justice Sandeep Sharma, justice Chander Bhusan Barowalia and justice Anoop Chitkara attended the oath ceremony over video-conference.Proceedings were carried out by the registrar general Virender Singh. He read out the warrant of appointment issued by the president of India. Born on May 25,1969 in Nahan, district Sirmaur, Rewal graduated from Government Degree College, Nalagarh, in Solan in 1988.She obtained an LLB degree from the Himachal Pradesh University in 1991 with three gold medals. She was the recipient of merit scholarships and certificates .She represented HPU at the inter-university moot court competition in 1989 and was awarded best female student advocate. She was enrolled as an advocate at the bar council of Himachal Pradesh in December, 1991, after which she started independent practice. She was designated senior advocate in July, 2015. She practised in Shimla, primarily the high court and has also appeared before the HP state administrative tribunal, Shimla. During initial years of practice, she also appeared before the court of the divisional commissioner, Shimla, financial commissioner (revenue), Shimla and HP State Consumers Disputes Redressal Commissioner, Shimla. She mostly dealt with civil, constitutional, environmental and service matters. She became an additional judge of the high court on May 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/justice-jyotsna-rewal-dua-sworn-in-as-himachal-high-court-judge/story-QDm0rcZFk2vuqi7GC4cdlK.html
28-07-2020||Chandigarh||Manimajra SHO bribery case: Special court issues notice to CBI on cop’s plea||The special court of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has issued a notice to the investigating agency after suspended SHO Jaswinder Kaur, an accused in ₹5 lakh bribery case, moved an application requesting to direct superintendent of Burail jail to keep her separate from other prisoners or undertrials whenever she is sent to judicial custody.Kaur who was absconding had surrendered in CBI court on Saturday and is on four-day police custody, which ends on July 29.Kaur mentioned in the application that she “being working in Chandigarh police for about last 20 years has remained a witness or investigation officer against a number of undertrials and convicted persons who are presently confined in Burail jail including associates of Prem Bisht who might be thinking of taking revenge or harming her in any manner.”The suspended cop is accused in another 2017 graft case, in which the complainant is Prem Bisht.The CBI court has directed the investigating agency to file its reply by July 29.On June 29, the CBI had booked Jaswinder Kaur, the then SHO of Manimajra and middleman Bhagwan Singh on the complaint of Manimajra resident, Gurdeep Singh. He alleged that the SHO had demanded money in lieu of not registering a cheating case against him.The two are booked under Section 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 7 and 7A of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/manimajra-sho-bribery-case-special-court-issues-notice-to-cbi-on-cop-s-plea/story-Y70A65sME2Psy2DKbJesUJ.html
28-07-2020||City||Robbers kill temple priest in Amritsar, flee with ₹60K||AMRITSAR A group of around 10 robbers killed the priest of Baba Lal Dyal Ji Maharaj temple and decamped with ₹60,000 in cash and some jewellery on Monday night. The miscreants also injured priest’s wife and a sewadar of the temple, situated on Amritsar-Pathankot road near Gopalpura village of Majitha sub-division. The victim has been identified as Mohan Sham Bharadwaj (55) while his wife Satyavati (50) and sewadar Gurdial Singh were injured. Satyavati said the incident took place at around 1am when around 10 youths armed with sharp weapons and sticks barged into the temple premises and asked Mohan to hand over cash to them. “When my husband resisted, they strangled him to death. They also beat me up with sticks and I lost conscious,” Satyawati said.Mohan’s son Gulshan Kumar, 25, who serves in an another temple nearby, found his father dead and mother unconscious at around 4:30am. Gulshan said the helper was also brutally thrashed by the miscreants. “Before leaving the spot, the miscreants removed jewellery of my mother and stole ₹60,000. They also took away the digital video recorder (DVR) of CCTV cameras installed at the temple.”Gulshan said that this was not the first incident. “In March, theft took place at the temple, but the police didn’t act on our complaint,” he said.Kathu Nangal SHO Mohit Kumar said Mohan and his family, who come from Mathura, had been serving in the temple for around two decades. A case has been registered under Section 460 (all persons jointly concerned in lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night punishable where death or grievous hurt caused by one of them) of the Indian Penal Code against the unidentified accused and investigations are on, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/robbers-kill-temple-priest-in-amritsar-flee-with-60k/story-chOyF1HTMGkFJicnN1ZWpL.html
28-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab health department on toes after 38 contacts of Bathinda cop test positive in four days||Bathinda: The district health authorities are baffled after 38 people, including 28 police personnel, have tested positive for coronavirus from a single source in the past four days. Official sources said the number may swell further as testing and tracing of contacts of all these asymptomatic patients is underway. An assistant sub-inspector posted at Nathana police station, about 40 km from the district headquarters, first tested positive on July 22. Two days later, most of the staff of Nathana, including the station house officer (SHO), were found infected with coronavirus. District authorities said nine family members of the ASI and one nurse at the community health centre tested positive on Monday. Since the ASI, who had a recent travel history, and other cops may have met several more persons before being tested, the administration has decided to launch intensive testing in the area. Though Bathinda senior superintendent of police (SSP) Nanak Singh was not available for comment, inspector general of police, Bathinda range, Jaskaran Singh said the ASI had gone to Uttar Pradesh for investigation in a murder case. “An accused was nabbed from UP who tested negative for coronavirus. But 28 other personnel at Nathana police station tested positive. They all are asymptomatic and being treated at the government isolation facility,” the IGP said. Deputy commissioner B Srinivasan said the ASI had possibly contracted the infection in UP or while travelling back to Bathinda. “The health department is working to trace primary contacts of all police personnel. It is a challenge to determine the possible source from where the ASI may have contracted the virus. Though no case of Covid-19 was reported earlier from Nathana, the health department has been directed to undertake intensive testing in the area,” the DC said. RETURN OF MIGRANT WORKERS A CHALLENGE Bathinda civil surgeon Dr Amrik Singh Sandhu said of the total 282 cases in the district, 140 alone are from a quarantine facility established by Guru Gobind Singh Refinery at Rama Mandi. According to the DC, a large number of workers from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal had come to Bathinda to work at the refinery but all of them were sent to a 2,000-bed quarantine colony. “The spike in the number of cases in Bathinda is due to the workers coming from different places. The source of their infection is still not known but the refinery management has ensured testing of each resident in the quarantine colony that is a separate place earmarked for workers on the refinery compound,” Srinivasan added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-health-department-on-toes-after-38-contacts-of-bathinda-cop-test-positive-in-four-days/story-lfwSy6ucjrkaovzpgCM6jN.html
28-07-2020||Chandigarh||Despite collection of cow cess, Jalandhar has no cattle pound||Despite the persisting stray cattle menace, which has led to several road mishaps in the district, the Jalandhar municipal corporation (MC) has not built any cattle pond or cowshed to tackle the problem. However, the MC continues to collect a hefty cow cess from locals every year. The MC had approved Rs 50 lakh for constructing a cattle pound in Shahkot in 2019. However, the MC stopped work last year after spending Rs 34.51 lakh and is yet to resume work. Besides, the MC has no other government establishment to house stray cattle in the district. Moreover, the existing cowsheds being run by NGOs are already filled to capacity and are refusing to take in any more cattle. They are also not rising to the MC’s aid as the civic body does not provide any aid for running cowsheds. A senior MC official, on request of anonymity, said the MC had collected Rs 1.72 crore from cow cess in 2019-20, Rs 1 crore in 2018-19 and Rs 19.64 lakh in 2017-18. The state government has been levying cow cess on liquor, fuel and some other items since 2016. Deputy director of animal husbandry Dr Mohinder Pal said, “Everyday at least one animal is injured after being hit by a vehicle. Our teams provide the best possible treatment. However, in absence of a proper place where the animal can be shifted after being provided first-aid not many survive.” He said many animals had been shifted to a cattle pound in Kanian Kalan village under the Shahkot tehsil. The cowshed is run by an NGO with the help of the state government but is also now almost full. “The MC has been dilly-dallying on the matter and is not constructing a cattle pound in the district,” Dr Pal said. A Jalandhar-based NGO People for Animals, which treats sick animals, including cows, had brought an injured cow from Hazara village. “The MC officials did not assist us though many locals offered to help,” says Manpreet Kaur of Hazara resident. MC health officer Dr Krishan Shama said, “There are two gaushalas being run by NGOs that are already overcrowded. The MC has an agreement with a Faridkot-based NGO.” He said work at a cattle pound in Shahkot was stopped months ago and he was unaware its status. He, however, blamed rural cattle owners for letting their animals loose in the city. MC commissioner Karnesh Sharma could not be reached for comments. District BJP president and councillor from ward two Susheel Sharma said corruption was rampant in the municipal corporation. “Every year, they approve funds for cattle pounds but they have not constructed it so far. “I have taken up the matter of proper utilisation of MC cess but to no avail,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/despite-collection-of-cow-cess-jalandhar-has-no-cattle-pound/story-ArCCjXSH2Ujb2bPkVxF6hL.html
28-07-2020||City||PSEB controller of examination among 24 test positive in Mohali||Punjab School Education Board (PSEB)’s controller of examination Janak Raj Mehrok is among 24 people who tested positive for Covid-19 in Mohali on Tuesday, taking the district’s total count to 771. The health department has sealed his office on the third floor of the PSEB building in Phase 8. Samples of his immediate contacts in the office have been taken and they have been directed to remain home quarantined. While 11 fresh cases have been reported from Dera Bassi subdivision, seven are from Mohali, five from Kharar and one from Mullanpur. The number of active cases stands at 287, with 470 being cured so far, of which five were discharged on Tuesday. As many as 14 have succumbed to the disease in the district.SDM rejoins officeMohali subdivisional magistrate (SDM) Jagdeep Sehgal and assistant commissioner under training Deepankar Garg recuperated and rejoined their offices on Monday, said deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan. “Both officers were found Covid positive two weeks ago, They have fully recovered now and have resumed their routine duties as usual, since they have completed their isolation period and have tested negative now,” he said.Urging people not to panic in view of the rising number of cases, Dayalan asked them to avoid unnecessary outdoor movement, follow physical distancing and hand hygiene and wear masks. Meanwhile, Sehgal, the first Punjab Civil Services (PCS) officer to have tested positive in Mohali (on July 8), said: “We are in a public dealing job and hence are always at a higher risk. But as per instructions of the health department, I got myself isolated well in time to prevent further spread of the virus to my staff and aged parents. I followed health protocols without any fail during the quarantine period and successfully recovered.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pseb-controller-of-examination-among-24-test-positive-in-mohali/story-2YVRW46uhdK8TWCpz7EADM.html
28-07-2020||Chandigarh||Low-key I-Day events to be webcast, no large gathering in Mohali||Independence Day celebrations 2020 on August 15 will be organised in Mohali in a “befitting matter.” All Covid-19 guidelines issued by the ministries of health and home will be followed, said Aashika Jain, additional commissioner (general), on Tuesday. No large congregations will be allowed and social distancing norms observed, with celebrations limited to hoisting the tricolour, march past, address by the chief guest, singing of the National Anthem and release of balloons. Mission Fateh and corona warriors such as doctors, health and sanitation workers will be felicitated for their noble service in the fight against the pandemic. Putting technology to use in the best possible manner, the events organised would be webcast in order to reach out to the public, Jain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/low-key-i-day-events-to-be-webcast-no-large-gathering-in-mohali/story-HoUSa38WIFqgc14pilyZcK.html
28-07-2020||Pune||Rural students of Gorhe Budruk ZP school get tablets, laptops to attend classes||Covid-19 pandemic has changed the dimensions of education. With schools shut, teachers have started with the new academic year through online classes. However, students from rural areas are facing a setback because of no access to electronic gadgets which can facilitate their need to attend online classes.To solve the issue, Pune Zilla Parishad (ZP) education department along with ThinkSharp Foundation started a pilot project, Home School, at Gorhe Budruk village in Haveli taluka of Pune district. Under the project, all students of Class 4 to 7 from Gorhe Budruk village have been given educational tablets and other necessary facilities to enable them to attend online classes. “We have planned to implement a home-schooling model which will provide educational tablets and other facilities to all 75 children from Classes 4 to 7 of the Zilla Parishad school in Gorhe Budruk village. These tablets will help students connect with their teachers and attend online classes and will also have a library of 1,500 e-books to read along with other educational apps. This will allow them to study online and offline,” said Santosh Phad founder of ThinkSharp Foundation. Rajnikant Mendhe, Zilla Parishad teacher from the village school, said, “In rural areas, disinterest in studies accounts for 20.24 per cent of schoolchildren, hence, some students, especially younger ones, may totally lose their interest in studies, making it difficult to incentivise them back into school. More importantly a crisis like Covid-19 pandemic, forces the parents to take their kids to work to earn money and as soon as money starts flowing in, parents become reluctant to send their kids back to school. We are currently working through all obstacles such as lack of resources, connectivity issues, and rural stereotypes to make this mission a success. Despite these hurdles, the children that could attend these online classes, even for a short period of time, showed a high amount of interest and motivation towards learning more about the world around them. This showed us the need for the development of digital infrastructure for these students, so that their learning never stops.” The ThinkSharp Foundation has raised Rs 4 lakh along with the help of students of an international school for the project. Last week, Maharashtra education minister Varsha Gaikwad also acknowledged the project through a virtual meeting with the students and teachers of the school who have started using tablets. Apart from the regular curriculum, due to digital learning, children are also getting the opportunity to learn foreign languages through volunteers. One such volunteer is Mansi Mehta from Mumbai who has now started online sessions on German language learning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/rural-students-of-gorhe-budruk-zp-school-get-tablets-laptops-to-attend-classes/story-kPzO3TE9iiFIG8dTGmSXhJ.html
28-07-2020||Lucknow||Covid-19:Test children, elderly, pregnant women on priority, says UP CM to officials||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday directed officials to test children, pregnant women and elderly for Covid-19 on priority. He stressed on enhancing the testing capacity and ordered the officials to everyday conduct one lakh rapid antigen tests, 40,000-45000 RT-PCR and 2,500 to 3,000 tests through truenat machines.The chief minister asked doctors and researches to study the case history of fully recovered patients to develop an effective treatment for the infected persons.He said the skill mapping of the labourers and workers, who have returned to the state due a nationwide lockdown, has been done. He stressed on providing them employment according to their skills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/covid-19-test-children-elderly-pregnant-women-on-priority-says-up-cm-to-officials/story-1Lt0xAMNADjOD6ceNi2NvN.html
28-07-2020||Bangalore||‘Congress is another name for horse trading’: Kumaraswamy slams ally||“Congress is another name for horse trading” said JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy on Tuesday as he slammed the party’s erstwhile state ally for its nationwide “Save Democracy” campaign against the BJP, accusing it of trying to topple democratically elected governments. The former Chief Minister said Congress is an expert in dividing political parties and purchasing MLAs. In fact, the term horse trading in politics came to be in use because of it, he said. “Congress has launched a nation-wide Save Democracy, campaign against the BJP which is buying MLAs to topple democratically elected governments. What has Congress done it? Haven’t they lured all BSP MLAs who supported the Congress to form the government in Rajasthan? Is this not a buyout?” Kumaraswamy asked. In a statement, he sought to know whether luring MLAs of the party which supported them through political shenanigans and merging the party which supported them was democratic behaviour. “If you are dividing like minded party MLAs supporting (you) through deceit, who would support you? Are these mistakes not visible to you?” he asked the Congress. In a politically significant development in Rajasthan, all six Bahujan Samaj Party MLAs had merged the legislative party with the Congress in September last year. Kumaraswamy also reminded the Congress, which was crying hoarse about purchase of MLAs, that it had divided the JD(S) in Karnataka in the past. “Haven’t they made attempts to divide? Is it not a fact that for the sake of one Rajya Sabha seat, the Congress government in Karnataka purchased eight JD(S) MLAs? Is this democracy? Both parties (Congress and BJP) are criminals in purchase matters.” Eight JD(S) MLAs had voted against the party’s official candidate and supported Congress in the biennial elections to Rajya Sabha from Karnataka in 2016. “When S M Krishna was the CM (of Karnataka), didn’t the Congress buy our MLAs? Didn’t the Congress conspire to form a government after the 2018 Assembly polls by buying our MLAs? Does Congress have the moral courage to answer these questions?” Kumaraswamy asked. In 2004, the Congress tried to divide JD(S), he said, adding that to avoid the party being hijacked by them, he had to oust the Dharam Singh led Congress-JD(S) coalition government through a political coup. Noting that the Anti Defection Law is not effective because of which these “anti-democratic farces” are being enacted, Kumaraswamy said it is imperative to make those who defect and their family members not contest elections at least for two terms, besides disqualifying them from holding any office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/congress-is-another-name-for-horse-trading-kumaraswamy-slams-ally/story-TeJjchQLyF0UmhHmUMutvK.html
28-07-2020||Chandigarh||12 fatalities, 489 fresh Covid-19 infections in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday recorded 12 deaths and 489 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the total number of positive cases in the Union territory to 18,879, officials said.Of the new cases, 355 are from Kashmir and 134 from Jammu division. Among these, 79 patients have a travel history. Officials said 12 more people have succumbed to the disease–11 in Kashmir and one in Jammu division. With this, the death toll in the UT has risen to 333—309 fatalities in Kashmir and 24 in Jammu division till date. A 25-year-old man from Ramban district succumbed to the infection. Dr Dara Singh, the medical superintendent of the Government Medical College and Hospital in Jammu, said the sample of the youth from Suligam in Ramban was collected on July 15 and he tested positive subsequently. “He was admitted in the isolation ward of GMCH on July 21. The patient had co-morbidities such as spinal tuberculosis, jaundice and gluteal abcess for 10 months,” Dr Singh said. He was put on ventilator on July 27 and died at 5.30am on Tuesday. He is the first Covid-19 fatality in Ramban district. A 60-year-old man from Budgam, who was admitted to Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences, Soura, on July 23 as a case of hypertension, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and community acquired pneumonia also succumbed to coronavirus. The UT, particularly Kashmir valley, is witnessing an increase in the daily death toll. As many as 232 persons have died in the past 28 days in July alone. Active cases in the UT stand at 7,661 after 483 more patients recovered on Tuesday. A government spokesperson said 46 people were discharged in Jammu division and 437 in Kashmir. The number of people who have recovered since the first cases emerged on March 9 has reached 10,885, taking the recovery rate to 57.65%. Of the total recoveries, 8,719 were cured in Kashmir while 2,166 in Jammu division.In Kashmir, the highest jump in cases was witnessed in Srinagar district where 138 more people tested positive followed by Pulwama at 39 and Ganderbal at 33. In Jammu division, the highest number of 43 cases was reported in Jammu district and 23 each in Rajouri and Ramban districts. Till date, 3.60 lakh people have been enlisted for observation — 45,651 in home quarantine, 7,661 in hospital isolation, 12 in hospital quarantine and 41,025 under home surveillance. Besides these, 2.66 lakh people have completed their 28-day surveillance period.Home quarantine for asymptomatic patients with no comorbidities The Jammu and Kashmir administration has decided to allow home quarantine of asymptomatic patients with no comorbidities, provided they can have a separate room for themselves in the house and download the Aarogya Setu app, officials said. The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by chief secretary BVR Subrahmanyam to review Covid-19 mitigation measures in the UT. It was also decided that four tertiary hospitals in Srinagar and three in Jammu city will now be referral facilities for Covid-19. “In order to achieve better compliance amongst the contacts of patients, it has been decided that the present practice of administrative quarantine of Covid positive contacts, will be dispensed with and the contacts shall be permitted home quarantine provided they are asymptomatic,” according to a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-covid-19-deaths-in-j-k-take-ut-s-coronavirus-toll-count-to-323/story-fQUFzHZhdgvj4sCdzcJOgJ.html
28-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab health dept asks PGIMER to audit Covid-19 tests being carried out by private hospital in Jalandhar||Jalandhar: Suspecting discrepancy in the testing of Covid-19 samples by a private hospital in Jalandhar, the Punjab health department on Tuesday the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) to conduct an audit of the RT-PCR tests being carried out. The state health department surveyed private labs in Jalandhar and found that the positive case ratio at the local Patel Hospital was much higher. Special secretary, health, Isha Kalia wrote to PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram that Patel Hospital in Jalandhar reported 26.34% positivity rate of the 205 samples put through RT-PCR (real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) tests for Covid-19. This is high compared to other government and private labs. “It is requested that PGI may conduct an audit of the lab,” Kalia said. She requested 10 random positive samples and five random negative samples to be sent by the Jalandhar administration. HOSPITAL FACING INQUIRY OVER CHARGES During its survey, the health department found that Onrequest lab reported 24 positive cases out of 443 samples (5.42%); SRL lab 14 positive cases out of 612 samples (2.29%); Lal Path Lab 30 cases out of 433 samples (6.93%); Metropolis Health four cases out of 48 samples (8.33%); Pathkind seven cases out of 72 samples (9.72%); and Patel Hospital 54 positive cases out of 205 samples (26.34%). When contacted, Patel Hospital authorities declined comment.On July 23, deputy commissioner Ghanshyam Thori had marked an inquiry against Patel Hospital in Civil Lines for charging Rs 5,500 for a Covid-19 test from a patient on July 21, even as the government had fixed the maximum cost for the test, including GST/taxes, at Rs 2,400. The state government orders were issued on July 8. An inquiry into the matter is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-health-dept-asks-pgimer-to-audit-covid-19-tests-being-carried-out-by-private-hospital-in-jalandhar/story-9zSDLcL7iiggFrfb8nW5PN.html
28-07-2020||Lucknow||Online ‘Qurbani Ke Bakrey’ drums up sales on wheels||With open goat markets not functioning due to the Covid pandemic, Pashu Bajaar -- a dedicated website for selling goats from the Goat Trust – has come up with a unique way of advertising its business. The Pashu Bajaar has sent out a couple of e-rickshaws with ‘Qurbani Ke Bakrey’ posters on them and their staff in the e-rickshaws, besides distributing pamphlets and rate list of their product, also deliver the goats at the door steps of people who have placed orders online. For the past few weeks, these e-rickshaws have been doing the rounds of various parts of the city -- especially the Muslim dominated areas of Lucknow. They are inviting Muslims to buy ‘certified’ goats for Bakrid sacrifice. The festival is likely on August 1. So far Pashu Bajaar has sold and home-delivered 683 goats and 3,000 more are in the process of being home-delivered. Though most buyers opt for one or two goats through the website, but some like Mohammad Sameer of Chowk booked a goat online but went to the Kukrail farm area of the Goat Trust and picked up five goats. “I live in Chowk. Learnt about this and came here. The goats are really good and well priced. There is no surge pricing here. I am very happy to have bought the goats for sacrifice this way for the first time.” The Goat Trust is a voluntary organisation engaged in promoting and supporting goat rearing, especially in Bundelkhand and Lucknow region. Sanjeev Kumar, a social entrepreneur and an Ashoka Fellow (2013), had founded the Goat Trust in 2013 to promote systematic goat rearing as a means of livelihood. A total of 442 goat farmers are linked to the organisation. An alumnus of the National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal, Kumar said: “All the goats on our website are actually owned by these farmers in villages and we are just facilitating the sale and profit earning for them. These farmers so far have made between Rs 2,200 to Rs 2,500 profit per goat this Bakrid. We issue a health certificate for each goat before its sale that mentions the details of when the goats were de-wormed and vaccinated and their age and weight.” “People go to the site, book the goat of their choice by looking at the pictures, health certificate and other descriptions such as weight, age etc. A buyer first books his preferred choice by paying 20% amount online, then once the delivery is done the buyers send full payment,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/online-qurbani-ke-bakrey-drums-up-sales-on-wheels/story-h7CMP6pX0pzjiUFr2lypiP.html
28-07-2020||Chandigarh||14 more test positive in Himachal, tally 2,284||Fourteen people tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday, taking the state’s coronavirus count to 2,284 of which 1,031 are active cases. Of the new cases, seven are from Chamba district, three, including a police personnel, from Bilaspur and two each from Mandi and Shimla district. A 20-year-old army jawan with a travel history to Leh tested positive at Lahru in Chamba district while another 21-year-old soldier from Bari Kihar village has also tested positive. He had also returned from Leh. A 20-year-old man from Churah who travelled to Bangalore tested positive after returning while a 25-year-old man from Lahru back from Mumbai has also contracted the infection. He was in institutional quarantine. A 25-year-old resident of Barla village back from Mumbai is also among the new cases and is in institutional quarantine. A 29-year-old resident of Dughar village who travelled back from Gurugram recently has tested positive, while a 45-year-old resident of Kathalu village is also infected. He had returned from Mumbai and was in institutional quarantine. A 62-year-old diabetic woman and a 32-year-old woman in Shimla’s Jakhu area are among the new cases. Both have a travel history to Delhi and were in home quarantine, deputy commissioner Amit Kashyap said. In Bilaspur, a 30-year-old police personnel of the 3rd Indian Reserve Battalion (IRB), who is a resident of Sheri village in Karsog in Mandi district, has tested positive. A 45-year-old man and a 32-year-old man, who worked as labourers, are also among the fresh cases and were shifted to the Covid care centre at Chandpur. Special secretary, health, Nipun Jindal said 12 Covid deaths have been reported in state so far and 1,224 patients have recovered, while 15 patients have migrated out of the state. With 563 cases, Solan is the worst hit district in the state followed by Kangra with 426 cases. Hamirpur has 300 cases, Sirmaur 273, Una 190, Shimla 150, Mandi 124, Chamba 103, Bilaspur 87, Kinnaur 41, and Kullu has 24 cases. With four Covid-19 cases till date, Lahaul and Spiti is the least affected district. Tourists banned in Shimla’s Tanu Jubbar area Amid fear of spread of virus, Shimla district administration on Tuesday implemented a complete ban on entry of tourists at Tanu Jubbar, 70km from Shimla, till further orders. Sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Kumarsain Gunjeet Singh Cheema said it is mandatory to implement immediate preventive and precautionary measures to avoid further spread of virus and ensure safety of people.He said anyone who violates these orders will be punished under Section 188, 269, 270 and 271 of the Indian Penal Code. He has also urged police to ensure strict enforcement of the order.Situated in Kotgarh valley, Tanu Jubbar is a popular tourist destination and attracts domestic as well as foriegn tourists throughout the year. Tanu Jubbar has a temple of local deity along with a lake and is surrounded by thick forest of pine trees as well as apple orchards.Recently, a 25-year-old Punjab resident who had come to Kotgarh valley with two others had tested positive in Jarol village. During interrogation, he had identified a few places he visited in the area. He was shifted to a Dedicated Covid Care Centre (DCCC) in Mashobra while his two friends had tested negative and are under institutional quarantine. A woman had also tested positive in Batari village in Kotgarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/12-new-cases-in-himachal-pradesh-take-state-covid-19-count-to-2-282/story-7Ogty1mFD6nEztnuU8NeON.html
28-07-2020||Mumbai||Manoj Tiwari urges Maharashtra CM to register FIR in Sushant Singh Rajput’s death||Delhi Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Manoj Tiwari has urged Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to look into the case of actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death and direct the state police to register an FIR in this connection.Wishing Thackeray on Monday on his birthday, Tiwari, who has acted in Bhojpuri films, pointed out that over 40 days have passed since the death of Rajput, but an FIR is yet to be registered.“Many happy returns of the Day @CMOMaharashtra Shri Uddhav Ji, on this day I request with folded hands to give justice to Sushant who died 43 days ago, but no FIR has been registered so far. I hope you will help. Please do justice to millions of SSR fans,” he tweeted.Bollywood actor Rajput was found dead at his Mumbai residence on June 14, which the police said was a case of suicide. His death had triggered an outcry from several quarters alleging that the late actor, who hailed from Bihar, was a victim of nepotism in the film industry.The lawmaker from Northeast Delhi’s Lok Sabha seat, who visited the deceased actor’s family in Patna last month had then said: “Sushant’s father and sister requested me to take up the issue and get him justice. It was really a sentimental moment for me”.Previously, Tiwari had demanded a CBI investigation into the matterAccording to the police, statements of 40 people including film critic Rajeev Masand, director-producer Sanjay Leela Bhansali, and filmmaker Aditya Chopra and actor Rhea Chakraborty have been recorded in the investigation so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/manoj-tiwari-urges-maharashtra-cm-to-register-fir-in-sushant-singh-rajput-s-death/story-muWyMv3SxpSr8yV2Kqh4DK.html
28-07-2020||Chandigarh||Sikhs in Pakistan want Imran Khan government to tackle Lahore gurdwara row at its own level: PSGPC||AMRITSAR: Sikhs in Pakistan want the Imran Khan government to deal with those staking claim over the historical Gurdwara Shaheedi Asthan in Lahore at its own level and restore confidence among minorities. Days after a video clip showing two local men laying claim to the gurdwara and threatening to convert it into a mosque, the Sikh community in the neighbouring country said the Pakistan Government should act against the culprits at its own level. Gurdwara Shahidi Asthan is a historical gurdwara where Bhai Taru Ji made the supreme sacrifice in 1745. Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) president Satwant Singh said, “Sikhs across the world are sad to hear the news about Gurdwara Shaheed Bhai Taru Singh. The vision of the Pakistan government, especially Prime Minister Imran Khan, is to promote peace and brotherhood. The incident that happened at Shaheedi Asthan is the act of an individual. There is a plot behind the gurdwara, which is a property of the Evacuee Trust Property Board (ETBP). They plan to grab that plot. This is wrong and can’t be tolerated.” “If we take action, it will damage the brotherhood of Sikhs and Muslims. Nor will it be a solution to the problem. I have raised this issue with the ETPB and other government departments. We want the government to tackle such issues at its level,” Satwant Singh said. COMPLAINT LODGED WITH POLICEMeanwhile, the ETPB, a Pakistan government body under which the PSGPC works, has lodged a complaint against Suhail Butt Attari, who is seen intimidating the Sikh community in Pakistan. In his complaint to the deputy inspector general (operation) of Lahore, ETBP secretary Sanullah Khan, said, “On July 25, Suhail Butt Attari, s/o Salah ud Din Butt, a local resident from Darbar Hazrat Shah Kaku Chisti in Lahore, tried to defame Pakistan by uploading a baseless propaganda video against Sikhs in Pakistan, the PSGPC and ETPB, and the Government of Pakistan. The DVD of the footage is enclosed.” ‘VIDEO CLIP DAMAGING PAKISTAN’S IMAGE’ “The PSGPC is the only official representative regulatory body of the Pakistan Sikh community and is playing a vital role in the image building of Pakistan as a minority-loving country. After the success of the Kartarpur Corridor project and appreciation of Pakistan at the international level, multiple conspiracies of anti-state elements are being hatched to malign the country,” the complaint said. The ETBP said that Suhail Butt and his associates Raza Butt, Umair and others are conspiring to provoke people against Gurdwara Taru Singh and trying to occupy the adjoining vacant plot in Landa Bazaar, Lahore. “To project his immoral acts, he is damaging the image of Pakistan at the international level. Strict disciplinary action should be taken.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sikhs-in-pakistan-want-imran-khan-government-to-tackle-lahore-gurdwara-row-at-its-own-level-psgpc/story-FVPGh8SEbygFoCwCkA4vXM.html
28-07-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand’s Covid-19 tally mounts to 8,803||As many as 324 fresh Covid-19 cases reported in Jharkhand on Monday taking the state’s coronavirus cases to 8,803, said the state health department.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAs per the bulletin, there are 4,908 active cases. There are 3,805 patients who have recovered/discharged.There are 90 deaths reported in the state due to Covid-19.With a spike of 49,931 cases in the last 24 hours, India’s Covid count crossed the 14 lakh-mark on Monday while the recovery rate stood at 63.92 per cent.According to Union Health Ministry, total Covid-19 cases stand at 14,35,453 including 4,85,114 active cases and 9,17,568 cured/discharged/migrated cases.With 708 deaths in the last 24 hours, the cumulative toll reached 32,771.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-s-covid-19-tally-mounts-to-8-803/story-MnX1cU3Lvn7uyaWUKibHTN.html
28-07-2020||Lucknow||UP rapidly ramping up Covid-19 tests from 72 in a day to over 1 lakh: Yogi Adityanath||More than one lakh Covid-19 tests were done in Uttar Pradesh on July 26 as against just 72 on March 23, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Monday after the launch of a high-tech testing facility in Noida. He said UP accounted for six per cent of the 6,000 tests conducted daily across the country in April and by July that figure rose to 15 per cent and his government aims to take that to 20 per cent soon, according to an official statement. Prime Minister Narendra Modi earlier in the day launched three such ICMR facilities in Noida, Kolkata and Mumbai via video-conference that are able to test more than 10,000 Covid-19 samples daily. Adityanath, who attended the virtual event along with his counterparts from Maharashtra and West Bengal, expressed gratitude to the prime minister for the initiative, which he said would help speed up tests and also safeguard lab technicians from contracting the infection. “Uttar Pradesh, under the guidance of the prime minister, is rapidly ramping up Covid-19 tests. On July 26, 1,06,000 COVID-19 tests were done in Uttar Pradesh as against just 72 on March 23. Tests are being done in the state via the RT-PCR, TrueNAT and antigen-based techniques,” he stated. He said at present, 40,000 RT-PCR tests are being done daily in the state, while 56,000 are done by the rapid antigen-based technique and 10,000 by TrueNat technique. He said technicians are also being trained continuously with the help of Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) and King George Medical University (KGMU) to ensure quality in tests. He also thanked PM Modi for providing through the ICMR a COBAS machine to Moti Lal Nehru (MLN) Medical College in Allahabad. He said the state government had set up a Covid care fund in the wake of the pandemic outbreak. “This fund is being used to set up RT-PCR labs in every medical college and zonal headquarter of the state,” the chief minister said, according to the statement. The state’s Covid care fund is being used to procure COBAS machine for KGMU and SGPGI in Lucknow and BRD Medical College in Gorakhpur which will boost the testing capacities at these places, he added. Earlier, speaking at the launch, PM Modi said India is in a much better position than other countries in the fight against Covid-19 as a result of “right decisions taken at the right time” and asserted that the country has expanded its health infrastructure at a rapid pace to deal with the pandemic. The deaths due to the coronavirus in India are much lower than many big countries, he said. Noting that India’s recovery rate is also higher than other countries and is improving on a daily basis, Modi said the total number of people who have recovered from the virus is about to reach the 10 lakh mark. On the occasion, Union Health Minsiter Harsh Vardhan described the launch of the ICMR facilities in Noida, Kolkata and Mumbai as “historic”. “Testing laboratories and facilities are being set up across the country in large numbers and work is underway to establish labs in every district,” Vardhan said, according to the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-rapidly-ramping-up-covid-19-tests-from-72-in-a-day-to-over-1-lakh-yogi-adityanath/story-jKJ2oKlK5NSc0simXpmpmL.html
28-07-2020||Bangalore||‘Don’t visit religious places’: Bengaluru civic body’s advice amid Covid-19 pandemic||In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) on Monday advised people not to visit temples, mosques and other places of worship during the coming festival season. “COVID-19 is now spreading rapidly in Karnataka, especially in Bengaluru. The festival season is starting with Varamahalakshmi festival on July 31, followed by Bakrid, Raksha Bandhan, Janmashtami, Gowri Ganesha, Moharram and then Onam. This festival season is the riskiest time for the spread of the coronavirus. Therefore, please STRICTLY follow the rules in order to stay safe. Do not visit religious places even if they are officially declared open,” a notification from BBMP said. Follow latest updates on coronavirus here In the context of Bakrid, unauthorised animal sacrifice (slaughtering) was prohibited in BBMP limits on roads and sidewalks, religious places, school and college premises, playgrounds and other public areas, as per the Karnataka Municipal Corporation Act of 1976.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “Unauthorised animal sacrifice (slaughtering) is a punishable offence under Section 3 of the Karnataka Prevention of Animal Sacrifices Act 1959 and Rules and the Amendment Act 1975, which provides for a maximum penalty of six months or Rs 1000, or both. According to the Karnataka Prevention of Animal Sacrifices Act 1959, slaughter-worthy animals can only be slaughtered in official slaughterhouses,” the notification said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/don-t-visit-religious-places-bengaluru-civic-body-s-advice-amid-covid-19-pandemic/story-oDkIOL6b70UEOJ6ccl6waJ.html
28-07-2020||Noida||Family robbed of cash, jewellery worth Rs 13 lakh at gunpoint in UP’s Ghaziabad||Several armed men broke into the house of a family in Ghaziabad and robbed them of jewellery and cash worth Rs 13 lakh at gunpoint early on Tuesday morning. The cops said that they are investigating the incident and also probing if any known person was behind the dacoity (robbery committed by five or more persons).The family said that at least six armed men broke into their house in Chiranjeev Vihar’s sector-9 at around 1:30 am on Tuesday and left at around 4 am while threatening them of dire consequences if they tried to raise an alarm or alert police. The Chiranjeev Vihar area is close to Harsaon police lines. The family alleged that their calls to the police were not answered. “The men left our house at 4am on Tuesday. The police did not take calls and we had to go to the local police post to alert them about the incident. As per our initial assessment, the robbers took away jewellery worth Rs 11 lakh besides about Rs 2 lakh in cash. They also took away money which my father had withdrawn from a bank on Monday,” said Kanchan Sharma, the house owner.The incident comes at a time when night curfew - between 10pm and 5am - in wake of Covid-19 is in place and police patrolling is beefed up.Kalanidhi Nathani, senior superintendent of police (SSP), said that the robbers fled with jewellery and cash during the incident. He however declined to comment whether there was a lack of police patrolling in the area.“We have roped in several teams and are also scanning CCTV footage. The CCTV at the house was not functional. The family informed us that 5-6 robbers had come and fled with jewellery and cash. We are probing the case and also trying to find if there is involvement of any known person or not,” Naithani told reporters.Sharma recounted how they entered the house and held the members at gunpoint.“They broke into the house by cutting through the window grille. They were six in number and were carrying weapons and knives. There were a total of 11 members, including children, of our family. After they entered the house, they had children at gunpoint while threatening all of us to keep quiet. They tore the bedsheets and tightly fastened our mouths with it,” said Sharma.She said that her sister, along with her family, had come to visit her on Monday. The family said that they thrashed several family members, including a girl.“After they took us at gunpoint and fastened our mouths, they locked all of us in the bathroom. The men seemed to be in the age group of 35-40 years and were well built. They did not speak in local dialect and seemed to be from eastern UP. After they were done looting, they pulled us out again from the bathroom and locked us in one of the rooms. They left soon after,” she added.Sharma said that she lost her husband and five other family members to the tragedy resulting out of flash floods in Kedarnath in 2013.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/family-robbed-of-cash-jewellery-worth-rs-13-lakh-at-gunpoint-in-up-s-ghaziabad/story-OueXcivLHIYginuxK8ydVK.html
28-07-2020||Noida||Noida: Covid patient hospital’s isolation ward molested by another patient||A woman has alleged that she was molested by a doctor, who was also admitted as a patient in the isolation ward, at a hospital in Noida, according to Additional Deputy Superintendent of Police (ADSP) Ranvijay Singh.“A woman was admitted to an isolation ward at a private hospital after testing positive for Covid-19. In the same ward, a doctor, who does not practise at the same institution, was also a patient in the isolation ward. The woman has alleged that she was molested by the doctor,” Singh told ANI on Monday.“We have registered an FIR and will take necessary action in the matter. Both the accused and the victim were patients at the facility,” he added.Singh said that the police will also check whether there was any lapse on the part of the hospital management.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-covid-patient-hospital-s-isolation-ward-molested-by-another-patient/story-N3ALbm900gghnWiDgltBwK.html
28-07-2020||Lucknow||UP govt urges I-T department, ED to probe Vikas Dubey’s close aide Jay Vajpayee||Uttar Pradesh government has requested Income Tax Department and Enforcement Directorate (ED) to probe into the “illegally accumulated” properties of Jai Vajpayee - a close associate of slain gangster Vikas Dubey.Reportedly, Vajpayee is a known industrialist in Kanpur city. He has allegedly worked for Dubey in property dealing and money-laundering.Dubey was arrested by the Madhya Pradesh Police in Ujjain on July 9 from premises of Mahakal temple after he was on the run for some days. He was killed in an encounter by the Uttar Pradesh Police on July 10 after he “attempted to flee”.The gangster was the main accused in the encounter that took place in Bikru village in Chaubeypur area of Kanpur, in which a group of assailants opened fire on a police team, which had gone to arrest him. Eight police personnel were killed in the encounter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-govt-urges-i-t-department-ed-to-probe-vikas-dubey-s-close-aide-jay-vajpayee/story-TQh0msuubNVf5Xs0XEKJKL.html
28-07-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: The end of a beauty parlour||She would do facial, manicure, pedicure, haircut and many other things in a space she created all by herself. But the dreamworld has ended. She finally shut down her beauty parlour for women on 22 June. “In these days of physical distancing, very few people are ready to be in such close proximity with somebody outside their immediate family,” observes Preeti Sachdeva.In her 40s, Ms Sachdeva was getting very few customers after she reopened the parlour, in May, when the coronavirus triggered lockdown was lifted. “It was no longer viable... I was finding it tough to pay the rent to the landlord, and I also had to pay her monthly salary to Mamta, my helper.”Ms Sachdeva had founded the parlour in 2008 in Jyoti Park, a neighbourhood in Gurugram’s Sector 7. She had named it Roopshree, “which is one of the names of Matarani, Lakshmi Ma.” This mother of two had many reasons to start her own business. Talking on WhatsApp video from her home in Devilal Colony, she lists them one by one.a) “My husband was still establishing his business. I thought it would be convenient to have some extra money at hand.”b) “It is nice to regularly get out of home, to dress up daily, to have an active professional life, and to stay busy and productive. It makes one feel good and confident about oneself.”c) “Many of my (female) relatives had their own parlours too. In fact, I learned beauty tips from my sister-in-law, Shashi Ahuja, who runs a parlour in Faridabad. I also did initial training under the supervision of Sunita Didi, who runs a beauty parlour in Arjun Nagar.”D) “Earning on my own, I hoped, would make me independent, powerful and well-respected in my circle of relatives and friends.”There was one more advantage of engaging with the wide world outside that Ms Sachdeva learned later. Everyday she would get to meet women from a variety of backgrounds and ages, all of which, she says, enriched her experiences and helped her in learning new ways of looking at the world and at herself. “Working in the parlour gave me a chance to see the world through the lives of other people, and since I’m very chatty by nature, my clients would always feel comfortable sharing stories about themselves.”The lady gives an example. “One of my regular customers was an aunty, in her 70s, almost my mother’s age, but very tiptop.” Sometimes Ms Sachdeva’s other, much younger, clients would curiously ask the elderly woman why she cared so much for her grooming in her advanced age and “Aunty” would cheerily shoot back, saying, “Why shouldn’t I?!” That response made Ms Sachdeva rethink her views on aging, and how she would like to be when she reaches 70.In the early years of the parlour, Ms Sachdeva’s school-going kids were still little. Every afternoon she was obliged to close the parlour for a couple of hours, and hurry back home to feed them lunch. It was a ten-minute walk between the house and the parlour. Lately, both her son and daughter were busy in their higher studies, her husband involved in his business, and she was freely immersed in her thriving parlour that would open six days a week from 10 am to 8 pm. (Even so, she would be single-handedly cooking the dinner every night.)And then the pandemic arrived, “just when everything was running so nicely, and we all were so happy with our routines.”After giving the shop space back to the landlord, Ms Sachdeva crammed up all her beauty parlour furniture and make-up stuff at her home. It occupies a corner of the upstairs room. Showing it through the mobile phone screen that connects her to this reporter, she says, “I had built my parlour with so much care.” The lady is speaking very matter-of-fairly, as if she didn’t like the indulgence of wallowing in regrets and disappointments. Looking at the mirror, she declares that not everything is lost. “I have already started working from home, and maybe my old customers will start coming back.”With this hope, she calls her son to hold the mobile as she poses for a portrait.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-end-of-a-beauty-parlour/story-ugRQAmDO3rkewrpS0VzGSI.html
28-07-2020||Patna||Bihar changes its health secy, second time in 2 months||Amid reports of rising cases of Covid-19 and rift between state health minister Mangal Pandey and principal secretary (health) Uday Singh Kumawat, the state government on Monday removed Kumawat from his post. He has been replaced by Pratyaya Amrit, who is also the principal secretary of energy and disaster management department. Amrit will continue to hold the charge of principal secretary disaster management department but has been relieved from the post of chairman-cum-managing director of Bihar State Power Holding Company Limited. Kumawat is the second principal secretary to be removed from the health department in the last two months. On May 21, Sanjay Kumar was transferred to the tourism department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-changes-its-health-secy-second-time-in-2-months/story-4ZLuHquuDFIjY9fyLHy8uI.html
28-07-2020||City||Covid-19: Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka cross 100k mark||The southern states of Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka breached the 100,000 case mark on Monday, logging 6,051 and 5,324 fresh coronavirus infections respectively. The total number of deaths mounted to 1,090 and 1,953, respectively, as the spread of virus continued unabated in the two states. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAndhra Pradesh’s cumulative number of cases stood at 102,349, while for Karnataka, the number was 101, 465 on Monday, according to state health bulletins. Andhra stands at the fourth position in the country, next only to Maharashtra which has 375,799 cases, Tamil Nadu (213,723 cases) and Delhi (130,606 cases). In terms of cumulative number of cases, East Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh tops the list in the state with 14,696 cases, followed by 12,234 cases in Kurnool, 10,747 in Guntur, 10, 247 in Anantapur and 8820 in West Godavari, according to the state health bulletin. As many as 49 deaths were reported in Andhra Pradesh on Monday, taking the overall death toll to 1,090. In terms of fatalities, the state is at the seventh position in the country with Maharashtra recording highest number of 13,656 deaths, followed by Delhi (3,827), Tamil Nadu (3,494), Gujarat (2,322), Karnataka (1,880), Uttar Pradesh (1,426). On the other hand, the neighbouring Telangana recorded 1,473 positive cases on Monday, including 506 cases in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits alone, taking the cumulative tally of cases in the state to 55,532. The state reported eight fresh casualties taking the overall toll to 471. “The death rate in the state is very low – 0.85 per cent, as against the national average of 2.3 per cent,” the official bulletin from the state medical and health department said.Meanwhile, Karnataka’s cumulative tally of 101,465 cases includes 37685 discharges and 1953 deaths, the health department said. With this increase, Karnataka continues to harbour the second most number of active Covid cases in the country at 61,819 after Maharashtra which has 147, 592 active cases. State capital Bangalore, however, recorded 1,470 cases on Monday, which is significantly lower than two thousand plus cases a day it has been averaging over the last fortnight. However, with 33,816 active Covid cases, Bangalore accounts for nearly half of all the active cases in the state. Chief minister B S Yediyurappa reiterated that there was no question of any further lockdown. “We have to learn to live with the virus and take adequate precautions including social distancing, wearing masks and other measures. The focus should be on economic revival and progress,” he said at an event to mark one year of his government in the state. Andhra Pradesh ‘s cumulative number of positive cases stood at 102,349, while for Karnataka, the number was 101, 465 on Monday||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-andhra-pradesh-karnataka-cross-100k-mark/story-Mnrpd2LcaT226A72SxF5ZO.html
28-07-2020||Mumbai||Aviation sector needs urgent plan to deal with crisis: CAPA-India asks government to intervene||For the second time in a month, aviation consultancy Centre for Asia Pacific Aviation (CAPA) - India, on Monday reiterated that the Indian aviation industry needs an immediate plan to deal with the ongoing financial crisis and warned that the sector is headed for a “challenging future” owing to the restrictions imposed by the government. In a series of tweets, CAPA- India said, “Indian aviation is headed for a very challenging future given the regulatory constraints imposed on the sector 1) domestic capacity limited to 45% 2) fare bands extended for three months 3) int’l travel restricted to a handful of travel bubbles. The situation is exacerbated by the fact that demand is very weak. Load factors are just 50-55% even with limited operations. And all this is happening at a time when most carriers have no cash and raising capital is very challenging. The viability of Indian aviation will be critical to support India’s economic recovery post-COVID.” Kapil Kaul, chief executive officer (CEO) of CAPA-India, said, “Aviation is at a breaking point. We need a clear strategy to deal with this crisis.” The consultancy recently predicted that two Indian airlines would have to shut down in the coming months, owing to the crisis created by the Covid-19 pandemic. Flight operations in India were suspended on March 25 after the nationwide lockdown was imposed. While the international sector continues to remain suspended, domestic flights resumed operations in a restricted manner from May 25. According to aviation regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), the domestic air traffic dropped by 83.5% in June in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. A recent DGCA report revealed that Air India, AirAsia India, Vistara and GoAir, which are among the top airline companies in India, witnessed a passenger count of 2.9 lakh, 1.62 lakh, 1.3 lakh and 89,000, respectively in June. An industry expert, who did not wish to be named, said, “If the government does not come up with ways to offer financial help to the airlines, the industry will not be able to rise in the coming years.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/aviation-sector-needs-urgent-plan-to-deal-with-crisis-capa-india-asks-government-to-intervene/story-BVIIQ0zciaCz2gUg3AHujJ.html
28-07-2020||City||Five deaths, 136 fresh cases of Covid-19 detected in Ludhiana||As many as 136 fresh cases of Covid-19 were detected in the district on Monday out of which 121 patients belong to Ludhiana district, while 15 are from other districts. It is the sixth consecutive day that the district has reported more than 100 positive cases.With this, the total number of positive patients from Ludhiana has gone up to 2,687. Meanwhile, five casualties were also reported from the district on Monday including three male and two female patients, taking the total toll to 65.The casualties include a 65-year-old woman from Chander Nagar, a 60-year-old man from Halwara village, an 80-year-old woman from Karnail Singh Nagar, a 50-year-old man from Tajpur road and a 74-year-old man from Bal Singh Nagar.MC JOINT COMMISSIONER RESUMES OFFICEJoint commissioner of the municipal corporation (MC), Kulpreet Singh, has resumed office after getting cured on Monday. Singh was home quarantined after additional deputy commissioner Amarjit Singh Bains tested positive on July 7. Kulpreet Singh had tested positive July 10.COUNCILLOR SUKHDEV SHEERA TESTS POSITIVECouncillor of ward number 42, Sukhdev Singh Sheera, tested positive for the coronavirus on Monday. Sheera got himself tested on Sunday, and samples of his family members were also sent for testing. Earlier, councillors Rakesh Prashar (ward number 64) and Manpreet Grewal (ward number 88) had also tested positive. GYM COACH OF LODHI CLUB TESTS POSITIVEPanic gripped Lodhi Club members after the club’s gym coach Rakesh Kumar, deputed at the reception, tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday. Earlier on July 18, a driver of the club had tested positive. Club’s general secretary Nitin Mahajan said, “The driver who tested positive on July 18 had not visited the club since July 7 as he was asked to get his test done. The club is getting the tests of the entire staff done and during this process, the gym coach tested positive on Sunday. The entire staff wears masks and all the precautions are taken. Sanitiser dispensers have been put in place and arrangements have also been made to sanitise the shoes of visitors.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-deaths-136-fresh-cases-of-covid-19-detected-in-ludhiana/story-X0CUqI436MMSJEsHRA87MN.html
28-07-2020||Mumbai||10 X-ray mobile vans for screening in housing societies||With residential complexes reporting a sudden surge in the number of Covid-19 cases in the past few weeks, the civic body, in a bid to diagnose more patients from housing societies, has decided to screen residents using X-ray machines. For the purpose, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has procured 10 X-ray mobile vans to detect abnormalities in the chest, owing to the presence of Sars-Cov-2 – the virus that causes Covid-19. The X-ray machines in the vans will be synced for analysis with the radiology department of King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital, Parel. “When a person gets screened with an X-ray machine, the X-ray plates will automatically get synced with the radiology department of KEM Hospital. So, there is no need to manually take the reports to the hospital. Doctors from the hospital can easily access all the reports of the patients across the city,” said Ranjit Dhakane, deputy municipal commissioner, BMC. If an X-ray report raises suspicion among doctors, the resident will be tested either through rapid antigen test or reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test. The 10 vans will visit housing societies that have witnessed the highest number of Covid-19 cases.In May, the civic body had installed 10 such X-ray machines at jumbo centres to detect high-risk contacts of Covid-19 patients as well as and asymptomatic patients. “We have received quite a success in identifying patients with the pathogen of coronavirus at Covid-19 jumbo centres and slums. Now, we will use the same technique for residential areas in containment zones,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC. According to doctors, Sars-Cov-2 affects the lungs of patients. Hence, X-rays may help in identifying the virus earlier. The radiological screening of lungs helps in distinguishing Sars-Cov-2 from other respiratory infections. “These scans help in identifying small patchy, translucent white areas in lungs that we call ‘ground glass opacities’ or GGOs. It forms cotton-like white spots in lungs,” said Dr Natasha Nanda, a radiologist from Dr LH Hiranandani Hospital. China, where the virus first broke out and spread to the rest of the world, first started using X-ray as a way to screen suspected individuals and installed the machines in all the fever clinics in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/10-x-ray-mobile-vans-for-screening-in-housing-societies/story-JX1rwZvTPpQpARPCvVFzJO.html
28-07-2020||Mumbai||352 personnel in Maharashtra Police test positive for Covid-19 in 48 hours||As many as 352 personnel from the state police department have tested positive for Covid-19 in just two days. The total number of positive cases in the state police force now stands at 8,584, including 94 fatalities. Around 251 police personnel were tested positive on Saturday, while 101 were tested positive for the virus on Sunday. Vinayak Deshmukh, assistant inspector general of police (law and order), however, said that of the total 8,584 infected personnel, 6,538 have already recovered from the virus and that there are only around 2,000 active cases in the force now. Many recovered police personnel have also resumed duty. Of the 8,584 infected police personnel, 892 are officers, while 7,692 are from the constabulary department. In Mumbai, more than 3,700 police personnel have been infected by Covid-19 so far, of which 54 have succumbed to the virus, while around 2,800 personnel have recovered.. The city police force has already allowed its personnel over 55 years of age or those with comorbidities to stay at home. Till Saturday, 1,525 personnel from Mumbai Police have undergone rapid antigen testing, of whom 31 tested positive for Covid-19. No antigen testing was conducted on Sunday. Police sources said that in the coming days, Mumbai Police may see a rise in the Covid-19 cases, as the department has decided to conduct maximum tests, through rapid antigen testing, for its personnel. Naval Bajaj, joint commissioner of police (administration) said that in the first lot of mass testing, police personnel between 45-55 years of age would undergo the tests, followed by the younger personnel who are more vulnerable and exposed to the virus in disease-prone areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/352-personnel-in-maharashtra-police-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-48-hours/story-dXlM2IVyF94GdM4p6kEpNI.html
28-07-2020||City||Thane, Kalyan-Dombivli civic bodies keep vigil on markets ahead of Eid festivities||Ahead of the Bakri Eid festivities, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has been keeping a strict vigil on all markets within their jurisdiction to ensure that social distancing norms are not flouted. Every year during Bakri Eid, goats are sold at an open ground. However, this year, owing to the Covid-19 outbreak, TMC has allocated a hall at Kausa, for residents to purchase the goats. Mumbra residents have decided to keep the celebrations low-key amid the Covid-19 outbreak. Religious leaders have also requested residents to stay at home and celebrate Eid.“We have ensured strict implementation of lockdown rules within the city. Our officials visited Gulab Park market on Sunday to ensure that the rules are maintained. Shops are kept open based on the odd-even rule. We will soon have a meeting to decide how to ensure that the rules are maintained on the day of Bakri Eid,” said TMC assistant commissioner Mahesh Aher.At the hall in Kausa, authorities have arranged for sanitisers for customers. “We will ensure that everyone adheres to the norms. Only those wearing masks will be allowed to enter. Each of the goats is priced at Rs13,000 to Rs35,000,” said Zameer Surme, manager of the market set-up at Kausa. Mumbra was one of the areas that was struggling to follow the lockdown strictly and had also recorded 547 positive cases in June. Although the figures have come down this month, residents and TMC are ensuring that there is no room for complacency. Meanwhile, Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has released a circular that stated that there will be no sale of goats at the APMC market in Kalyan, as it is located in a containment zone. “On July 19, it was announced that the market would be kept open ahead of Eid. However, owing to the increasing crowd at the market, we have decided to close it until further notice,” said KDMC commissioner Vijay Suryavanshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tmc-keeps-vigil-on-markets-ahead-of-eid-festivities/story-V9dXeCilkZzBviuz3Wa8uM.html
28-07-2020||Mumbai||Air India pilots seek a meeting with civil aviation minister; Indigo announces second pay cut||After running a campaign against its management on social media, Air India pilots on Monday wrote to civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri, requesting for an urgent meeting to discuss their grievances. Alleging that the officials briefing Puri have “grossly misinformed” him, as the pay cuts in the airline are not across the board, the letter read, “The current industry standard in India is a cut of 15-23% on gross salary i.e. cost to company. However, the Air India management is trying to show cost cutting by slashing cherry picked allowances instead of a fair cut on gross wages (the true cost to company of an employee). They have safeguarded their perks, privileges and entitlements while shifting extreme financial burden on the pilots.’’ Despite repeated attempts, Air India spokesperson did not respond to HT’s calls.The pilots also said that the imbalance in the pay cuts, which were part of a “deliberate and unethical agenda of creating industrial disharmony, reeks of a vested interest and a conspiracy to sabotage the national carrier and derail the privatisation process”. Around 1,800 pilots and more than 2,000 cabin crew members are employed with the national carrier.“We feel that the top management is not aligned with the PMO’s [Prime Minister’s Office] vision of privatisation. They are trying to create unrest and disharmony among employees. The pay cut is not uniform across board, and nowhere close to the market standard,” a senior Air India pilot said. He also claimed that the pilots have written to the aviation minister based on the figures and evidences they have. “Instead of applying genuine cost-saving measures, the top bosses are trying to avoid any pay cuts for themselves, while still retaining their perks such as luxury club memberships, free cars, petrol etc. We would like to connect with the honourable minister directly to apprise him of the matter and also give some real cost-saving suggestions to help the company,” the pilot added. Meanwhile in an internal email, IndiGo, India’s largest airline by market share, announced a second round of pay cuts. The airline’s spokesperson did not respond to HT calls for a comment on the issue.However, HT has accessed the email, in which the airline’s chief executive officer (CEO) Ronojoy Dutta said that the step had to be taken to adjust the airline’s cost structure to the decline in revenues. While Dutta announced a 35% pay cut for himself, the salaries of the senior vice-presidents of the airline will be reduced to 25%, while those of associate vice-presidents to 15%. The pilots will lose 28% of their salaries. Moreover, each department of the airline has been asked to make a monthly decision on the number of employees to be sent on leave without pay. Recently, the airline had also announced to lay off 10% of its employees.In May, IndiGo had announced a pay cut ranging between 5% and 25% till the end of the 2020-21 financial year. The airline had also implemented leave without pay for employees ranging from one-and-a-half days to five days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/air-india-pilots-seek-a-meeting-with-civil-aviation-minister-indigo-announces-second-pay-cut/story-1TKgY4XUujbxMmS88tSopJ.html
28-07-2020||Mumbai||Allow students to submit caste validity within a year: Maharashtra Navnirman Vidyarthi Sena||With restrictions in place owing to the ongoing lockdown in the state, several students have requested the government to extend the deadline for submitting caste validity certificates for admissions to various courses, by a year. In a letter sent to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday, the Maharashtra Navnirman Vidyarthi Sena (MNVS) said wrote that many students had made representations to them over the issue. “Students have not got sufficient time to procure their caste validity certificates and will have difficulty in getting them now owing to the travel restrictions during the lockdown. The state should consider this as an unforeseen circumstance and grant provisional admissions to students now. They can be given a year’s time to submit their documents,” said Chetan Pednekar, vice-president MNVS. The student wing of Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) has asked the government to give such a relaxation for students for all admissions, including those for junior colleges, undergraduate and postgraduate programmes, for academic year 2020-21 in the state. Officials at the education department said that they would make a representation to the state government in this regard. “We have got such requests from students and shall forward them to the government,” said a senior official.Last year, the education department had decided to allot provisional admissions to students who fall under the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) and Economically Weaker Sections (EWS), as the two reservations came into force a few days before the admissions. Students were asked to submit their documents within six months from the time of admission and were granted provisional admissions on the basis of an undertaking signed by them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/allow-students-to-submit-caste-validity-within-a-year-maharashtra-navnirman-vidyarthi-sena/story-3mDQQErspG9gYp5H5cfwdP.html
28-07-2020||Mumbai||Aishwarya Rai Bachchan and daughter test negative for Covid-19, out of hospital||Ten days after being admitted to Nanavati Hospital to treat Covid-19, actor Aishwarya Rai Bachchan and her daughter Aaradhya were discharged on Monday after both tested negative for the virus. Actors Amitabh and Abhishek Bachchan are still under observation at the hospital. According to sources in the hospital, the father-son duo may be discharged by Thursday. On Monday, Abhishek tweeted, “Thank you all for your continued prayers and good wishes. Indebted forever. Aishwarya and Aaradhya have thankfully tested negative and have been discharged from the hospital. They will now be at home. My father and I remain in hospital under the care of the medical staff.” Bachchan and Abhishek tested positive for Covid-19 on July 11. As part of contact tracing, Aishwarya, Aaradhya and Jaya Bachchan were tested for Covid-19. Initially, Aishwarya and Aaradhya showed negative results in their antigen tests, but tested positive in the follow-up reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests. They were on home quarantine, but later reported mild symptoms and were admitted to Nanavati Hospital on July 17. Hospital sources said Bachchan and Abhishek are healthy. “Even though Amitabh had minor symptoms, considering his age [77 years], we had to be extra cautious with his treatment. He could have developed complications due to underlying conditions. But like always, he has fought bravely and almost recovered from the virus,” said an official from the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/aishwarya-rai-bachchan-and-daughter-test-negative-for-covid-19-out-of-hospital/story-HEemB7lyXojRKcrX4fdvSL.html
28-07-2020||Mumbai||Will look into problems pertaining to Eid festivities, says Maharashtra CM||Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray, in a meeting attended by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat, home minister Anil Deshmukh and minority affairs minister Nawab Malik, assured to look into the complaints from members of the Muslim community over the transportation of goats for the Eid-ul-Azha (Bakri-Eid) festival, which will be celebrated on August 1. Former minister Baba Siddique said that though the community has no issues over buying goats online, the trucks and tempos transporting them are not allowed to enter the city. “The Motor Vehicle Act allows transportation of a certain number of animals depending upon the vehicle’s size,” said Siddique, who attended the meet along with his son and legislator Zeeshan. The meeting was held hours after NCP chief Sharad Pawar asked senior ministers to discuss the issue with CM. Some days ago, the state government had issued guidelines over the celebrations. Pawar earlier held a meeting with leaders from the ruling parties, along with Muslim community leaders, on the issue. Sanjay Kumar, director general of police Subodh Jaiswal, Mumbai Police commissioner Sanjay Barve, civic commissioner IS Chahal and other senior officials were also present for the meeting. The state has allowed buying animals online or over phone to avoid crowding. It has further suggested of a ‘symbolic qurbani’ or sacrifice.of animals. Unhappy with the rules, Muslim leaders on Monday met the NCP chief. “There is nothing called “symbolic qurbani [sacrifice]” in Islam and the community should be allowed to follow the practice. Those who have bought animals online should also be allowed to transport them as around 300 trucks carrying animals have been stopped at various borders across the state,” Congress legislator Amin Patel said. “The NCP chief also said that animals should be allowed to be transported as they have been bought following the guidelines,” said a leader, who did not wish to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/will-look-into-problems-pertaining-to-eid-festivities-says-maharashtra-cm/story-VTSCpaOP8wBLazRTeX4FVM.html
28-07-2020||City||Two youth held with heroin in Ludhiana||The Ludhiana unit of the Special Task Force (STF) has recovered 235 gram heroin from two men while they were going to deliver the consignment on Sunday night.Those arrested have been identified as Sahil, alias Kala, 24, of Rishi Nagar, Patiala, and Satish Gupta, 23, of Dhandhran. Gupta is already facing trial in a robbery case lodged against him in Raikot. He was arrested by Raikot police in February for robbing ₹3 lakh from a grocery shop in Mohalla Sechra of Raikot and was out on bail.An accomplice of theirs, Deepak Mehra of Gill village, Ludhiana, is yet to be arrested.AIG (STF) Snehdeep Sharma said the smugglers were held on a tip off. The accused were crossing the area on a motorcycle when they were stopped for checking. When frisked, 235 gm heroin was found hidden under the seat of the motorcycle.The accused told police that they worked for Deepak Mehra who smuggled heroin and handed it over to them for selling.A case under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act was registered. The accused were produced before a court on Monday and remanded to one-day police custody.A hunt is on for Deepak Mehra, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-youth-held-with-heroin-in-ludhiana/story-hxUh3WZyIMNIrljTFYKK0N.html
28-07-2020||City||Mumbai to see more rapid antigen tests||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) plans to procure more rapid antigen kits and increase the number of teams to carry out the aggressive testing in more areas across the city in phases. BMC had procured one lakh kits in the first week of July from a South Korean firm, which was the only company approved by ICMR. On July 2, BMC had announced that it would start rapid antigen tests at five wards with the most Covid-19 cases then – R-North (Dahisar), R-Central (Borivli West), R-South (Kandivli), P-North (Malad) and P-South (Goregaon). However, the plan was later extended to all 24 administrative wards. The civic body has so far tested 17,331 people, of whom, 1,460 have tested positive for Covid-19, with a positivity rate of 8.4%. Senior civic officials said the rapid antigen testing has been getting good response. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, said, “Apart from the frontline staff and shopkeepers, there is a significant number of local citizens approaching health camps for the tests. We are going to procure more rapid antigen test kits in the future. We want to focus on finding maximum Covid positives and quarantine them at our centres. Our immediate plan is to increase the number of testing teams from 34 to 50 and take one ward at a time. This will help cover more areas quickly.” Rapid antigen kits deliver test results within 15-20 minutes, but are less sensitive compared to RT-PCR tests. BMC will on priority test frontline workers using the kits. Of the total tests, 2,443 were on BMC staff from the solid waste department, 16 of whom have tested positive. Further, 1,525 employees of the Mumbai Police were tested and 31 came positive. With the rise in cases in Borivli and Dahisar, BMC on Friday tested 220 hawkers, street vendors and shopkeepers in Dahisar using the kits. All of them tested negative. Vishwas Shankarwar, deputy municipal commissioner of zone 7 covering Borivli, Dahisar and Kandivli, said, “All of them were asked to visit the health camp in advance. We wanted to trace the transmission of the virus as many positive patients just got out of their house only to buy groceries and vegetables. So we decided to test all vendors and shopkeepers. We will continue testing our frontline staff and hawkers.” Meanwhile, on Monday, Mumbai recorded 1,021 Covid-19 cases and 39 deaths. The city’s case count has reached 110,182 and toll is 6,132, according to the state health department data. As per BMC’s data, of the 39 deaths, one was of a patient below 40 years of age, 26 above 60 years, and 12 between 40 and 60 years. The data further stated that 1,706 patients were discharged on Monday. A total of 81, 944 patients have been treated and discharged so far. The number of active patients in the city is 21, 812. The recovery rate of the city is 73%. The number of Covid tests done till Sunday is 4.85 lakh. Meanwhile, Dharavi reported nine new cases on Monday, taking the total to 2,540. Medical education department secretary transferredThe state government on Monday transferred the secretary of medical education department that governs several government hospitals, including Sir JJ Hospital, in Mumbai. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray reshuffled four IAS officers on Monday. Higher and technical education department’s secretary Saurabh Vijay has been appointed as the head of the medical education department and will replace Dr Sanjay Mukherjee. Rajiv Jalota has been appointed as the additional chief secretary of higher and technical education department. SVR Srinivas has been appointed as the principal secretary, housing department, while Jalal Sharma has been appointed as the additional municipal commissioner of Nagpur Municipal Corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-to-see-more-rapid-antigen-tests/story-fkhpXqv72ovWdNNTgPUROI.html
28-07-2020||Chandigarh||Auto-rickshaw driver assaulted in Chandigarh for objecting to parking outside his house||An auto-rickshaw driver was injured after a group of people assaulted him for objecting to parking of a motorcycle in front of his three-wheeler in Mauli Jagran on Monday, the police said.Chander in his complaint alleged that he was attacked with swords, lathis and sticks by five to six people of his locality. He said one Madan, who stays in another block, had parked his motorcycle outside his house blocking his auto-rickshaw. Chander said that on earlier occasions, too, he had asked Madan not to park the vehicle there.On Monday, Chander and Madan had an argument after which the latter called his friends who attacked Chander leaving him injured. He was rushed to a hospital. A case of rioting was registered. MAN OUT FOR WALK ROBBED OF MOBILE, CASHOut for a walk in the evening, a man was robbed of his mobile phone and cash after two persons attacked him. Complainant Yogesh, a resident of Housing Board Colony, Dhanas, told the police that he ran a stationery shop in Dadumajra. He said that on July 25, he was walking in Valley Park near his house when one of the accused, Vishal, tried to snatch his mobile phone. When he resisted, the accused attacked him with a sharp-edged weapon leaving him with injuries on the arm. In the meantime, the other accused, Kali, joined and attacked him with a stone. The accused took away his mobile phone and ₹700 cash. Yogesh was rushed to PGIMER. A case was registered under Section 394 of the IPC.VEHICLE LIFTER HELD A 25-year-old man working as a painter was held for vehicle theft, the police said on Monday. The accused was identified as Dinesh of Mauli complex. He was produced before a court on Monday and sent to judicial custody. Pardeep Maurya of Mauli Complex had reported theft of his Alto car parked near his house on the intervening night of July 25/26. Police said that Dinesh was a habitual drinker and had used a master key to open the vehicle. He is also an accused in an assault case registered in Mauli Jagran. A case was registered.BURAIL BURGLARY A resident of Burail has alleged that an unidentified person stole cash and jewellery from his house while he had gone to the market on Saturday night. Complainant Parvej reported a gold set, gold earrings, gold rings and gold tikka stolen, along with some cash. A case was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/auto-rickshaw-driver-assaulted-in-chandigarh-for-objecting-to-parking-outside-his-house/story-Zvn0gKAYYYEVH5NTRbqT8K.html
28-07-2020||Chandigarh||PEC’s online semester gets mixed response from students||Online semester conducted by Punjab Engineering College (PEC) Chandigarh, deemed to be a University, has garnered a mixed response from students. PEC had earlier decided that classes will go online for the first semester of 2020-21 academic sessions as no classes will be held in person due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Many students said that there were few technical glitches during virtual classes. Bhaviya Chopra, a student of electronic and communication engineering said, “There were some technical glitches during a class. I hope this will be streamlined in the coming days.”PEC has recommended Google classroom to teachers for taking online classes but some liberty has also been given to them for choosing the platform. PEC has also offered accommodation to students who have poor internet access, to facilitate online teaching.“Overall the experience was good. I think more time should be given to students to clear their doubts,” said Harinder Singh, a fourth-year, electronics and communication engineering student.PEC director Dheeraj Sanghi said, “If any student is facing issues during online classes, they can approach me and we will try to solve their problems.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pec-s-online-semester-gets-mixed-response-from-students/story-0z96WdDBiUr6S1oJvCXOGM.html
28-07-2020||Chandigarh||Groups at loggerheads over conducting senate polls at Panjab University||Concerns have come from many corners over the conduction of the Panjab University senate polls amid the Covid-19 pandemic, especially for the registered graduate constituency.As many as 15 members are elected from a registered graduate constituency.The election for the 91-member PU senate, which is the apex governing body of the university, is scheduled in August and September this year.The members of the senate hold different views regarding the conduction of elections amid pandemic that has become an issue of debate at the university.On 25 July, Panjab University senators Subhash Sharma, who is ‘aligned’ towards the Bhartiya Janta Party (BJP), Varinder Singh Gill and Gurdeep Sharma and SS Sangha, had written to vice-president Venkaiah Naidu who is also chancellor of the university regarding rescheduling elections considering the Covid-19 pandemic.However, calling it an unreasonable demand, senator Navdeep Goyal, from the opposite camp, who is in alliance with Ashok Goyal, and Professor Ronki Ram and Keshav Malhotra have also written to the chancellor requesting that senate elections be held as per schedule as the election process has already started and final voter list in the various constituencies have also been released. In their letter, they had stated that the request to stop the election process is nothing but to impede the democratic process of the senate election.Other senators have also written to the chancellor demanding that elections be held as per schedule.Navdeep Goyal said, “Over 50% election process has already been carried out. Members from various constituencies have filed their nominations as well, so there is no point in rescheduling the senate elections now.”PU senator Varinder Singh Gill, who wants the elections to be rescheduled said, “We had also taken opinion from the fellows in Delhi, Punjab and Chandigarh and they feel that senate elections should be rescheduled taking into account the high risk of Covid-19.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/groups-at-loggerheads-over-conducting-senate-polls-at-panjab-university/story-QXOt2n95yKXGKJTzI9L82J.html
28-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administration takes up faulty ventilator issue with Centre||After the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) reported faults in the ventilators provided by the UT administration under the PM CARES fund, the latter has raised the issue with the central government.Central government had provided 20 ventilators to the UT administration out of which 10 each were provided to PGIMER and Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, which were installed at its south campus in Sector 48 hospital.“We have received the report from the specialists of the PGIMER where 10 ventilators had been installed. Based on that, we have written to the Government of India and they will probably get them replaced from the manufacturer concerned,” a senior UT official, requesting anonymity, said.UT health secretary Arun Kumar Gupta confirmed that the administration had written to the central government based on the report provided by PGIMER.Earlier, PGIMER had communicated to GMCH, citing their internal findings stating that ventilators were not of standard quality. Based on this communication, GMCH had formed a panel for checking the quality of the equipment available with them.Prof BS Chavan, director-cum-principal, GMCH, said, “The ventilators installed in GMCH are from different manufacturers than those provided to the PGIMER. However, we are still checking them for faults. Two of them are working fine. The final report will be submitted in a few days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-takes-up-faulty-ventilator-issue-with-centre/story-VN59Ea8Y2Byfdd9Y309SMK.html
28-07-2020||Mumbai||Maha has hit Covid peak, says Tope; tally 383,723||Maharashtra on Monday reported 7,924 Covid-19 cases, taking its tally to 383,723, as state health minister Rajesh Tope said the state has reached the peak of the pandemic. The death toll of the state rose to 13,883, 6,000 of which were in July, after 227 more fatalities were reported in the past 24 hours. Active cases, too, reduced to 1,47,592, a drop of 1,009 from Sunday.“In my view, the peak has arrived and cases will continue to rise for another 15 days or so. We are expecting a plateau or flattening of the [case] curve somewhere around August 15. Once we hit the plateau, cases will start declining,” Tope told HT on Monday. The state’s latest case spike came after 11 days of 8,000 or more new infections, including 10,576 on July 22. Till Sunday, the state had reported 9,000 new cases for four straight days. The number of active cases, as of Monday, accounted for 38.46% of the state’s tally, according to the state health department. The state is likely to cross the grim 4-lakh case mark on July 29 or 30, within 11-12 days after it crossed 3 lakh on July 18.Maharashtra breached the 3-lakh mark 14 days after it went past 2 lakh. It took the state 96 days to cross 1 lakh cases on June 12 and 22 days to cross 2 lakh.With 13,883 deaths, the case fatality rate (CFR) of the state was 3.62% on Monday. It continued to be second-highest in the country after Gujarat, where CFR is 4.17%, with 2,326 deaths (55,822 cases) till Sunday, according to statistics shared by the state medical education department.Maharashtra still has the highest number of deaths in the country, while its test positivity rate was 19.92%, as against the 17.75% on June 27. Meanwhile, Mumbai spike in cases remained stable with 1,021 infections reported on Monday, taking its count to 110,182. The city’s tally of active cases stood at 21,812. The city’s toll stood at 6,132, with 39 deaths reported in a day. The state is planning to open up activities after the sixth phase of the lockdown ends on July 31, with officials estimating that cases would likely rise in August. “There are projections that cases are likely to rise in August. The state government is preparing to deal with the situation as projected by experts,” said a senior official, requesting anonymity.Notwithstanding the continued surge, the state is considering to give further relaxations from next month. “The decision is yet to be taken, but the chief minister is contemplating giving more relaxations and the existing lockdown is likely to continue for one more month. However, restrictions in containment zones will remain strict,” said a senior official, wishing not to be named.Chief secretary Sanjay Kumar on Sunday said the discussion is still on over giving relaxations. “The discussion on the relaxations to be offered from the first week of August is underway and we are planning to issue the notification by July 31,” he said.To deal with surge in cases, the state government has decided to augment health infrastructure in each and every district. It has developed field hospitals in Mumbai and similar field hospitals are now coming up in other eight satellite cities — Thane, Navi Mumbai, Kalyan-Dombivli, Mira-Bhayander, Ulhasnagar, Panvel, Vasai-Virar and Bhiwandi-Nizampur — of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR).It is also facing shortage of health staff that includes doctors, nurses, para medical staff etc. the officials said.Meanwhile, Pune continued to contribute more daily cases than Mumbai as the city recorded 1,104 cases on Monday. Its case count stands at 52,395 cases. It has contributed the second-highest number of cases after Mumbai. Pimpri-Chinchwad, satellite city in Pune Metropolitan Region, has recorded 656 cases, third-highest across the state.Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Monday directed authorities to develop three field hospitals to fulfil the demand of beds following rise in cases. “We have to pla health infrastructure considering the number cases of cases by August-end,” Pawar said in a review meeting held in Pune.So far, the state has tested over 19,25,399 people, of them, 15,41,676 tested negative. As many as 2,21,944 infected patients have recovered and discharged from various hospitals across the state. On Monday alone, 8,706 have recovered, taking the recovery rate to 57.84%.Tope also pointed out that the number of recovered patients (8,706) were more on Monday than new cases (7,924). “We look it as an improvement in the situation,” he said. Currently, 44,136 people have been kept at institutional quarantine facilities and 922,637 people have been home quarantined across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-has-hit-covid-peak-says-tope-tally-383-723/story-6mb5CcwixmuxI90pJAXDaK.html
28-07-2020||Mumbai||State setting up hospital in city to tackle future outbreaks: CM||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday said the Maharashtra government is setting up a jumbo hospital in or around Mumbai to counter virus outbreaks in the future, which will be equipped with facilities for research, treatment and vaccine development. He said the government was also planning an immunology laboratory and research centre in the city. The CM has requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi for supporting the jumbo hospital project in the city.Speaking during the online inauguration of the state-of-the-art testing facility in Mumbai by Modi, Thackeray said Covid-19 would not be the final virus for the world and that governments should be prepared for more outbreaks in the next two to five years. “The coronavirus has not attacked us all of a sudden. We have been facing various viruses in the last eight to 10 years and those were indications for us human beings. The attacks of SARS, H1N1, Ebola, Zika in the last few years were underestimated by us. To be prepared for more such attacks in the future, we are planning the hospital and research centre with the hope that we will not go through the same ‘pause’ mode we are in now,” Thackeray said.Thackeray also requested Modi to continue supply of N95 masks and PPE kits even after September. “We have been aggressively tracking patients through our ‘chase the virus’ mantra and have been treating them at our jumbo facilities. Our jumbo facility at Mumbai was set up in just 20 days. More such facilities are coming up in other cities like Pune. I will request the Centre to continue the supply of masks and PPE kits even after the September deadline,” he said.Maharashtra has 2,665 Covid-19 dedicated centres and hospitals with 3.06 lakh isolation beds, 42,813 oxygen and 11,882 ICU beds. The state has 3,744 ventilators, 7.07 lakh PPE kits and 12.59 lakh PPE kits The high throughput Covid-19 facility at the National Institute of Research in Reproductive Health, Parel Mumbai enables 1,200 tests a day without minimum human intervention. The reports are available faster compared to the existing labs, the statement by the chief minister’s office said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-setting-up-hospital-in-city-to-tackle-future-outbreaks-cm/story-o1R6U8cJswlWR9yJof9OUO.html
28-07-2020||Gurugram||Corporates lend helping hand, provide 10,000 antigen testing kits||The district health department has received 10,000 antigen detection kits from private companies based in Gurugram to ramp up Covid-19 testing in the city.Corporates that have been actively involved in assisting the administration in providing ventilators, Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) and even setting up designated Covid-19 hospital since the onset of pandemic, are now approaching the health department to provide antigen detection kits under their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) fund, officials familiar with the matter said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“The department has received 10,000 antigen kits from corporates that are working with social organisation iamgurugaon. They have paid for the kits procured from the manufacturing unit in Manesar. Five to six other companies have also approached us to provide Covid-19 testing kits under their CSR funds. Also, state government will be allocating new kits,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer of the district. A group of more than 20 companies — Gurugram Covid-19 Volunteers Group — that are running the Medeor Hospital in Manesar as designated Covid-19 hospital for patients requiring tertiary care, have now contributed almost Rs 50 lakh in providing the testing kits to the health department.The group comprises business leaders from McKinsey, MakeMyTrip, DLF, Harvest Gold, Nestle, Medanta-The Medicity, Clix Capital, Sembcorp, Renew Power, SRF Foundation, Tech Mahindra, Egon Zender among others, said Latika Thukral, co-founder, IamGurugram, a city-based NGO. The NGO has been coordinating with the corporates to providing assistance to the district administration in tackling the pandemic crises. Taab Siddiqui, co-founder, Harvest Gold, who is a part of the group, said, “There was consensus among the members of the group to provide rapid antigen kits as testing is critical to the current pandemic situation. Only through testing, we can easily identify infected patients and give them required treatment, isolation or quarantine.” Siddiqui’s firm has pledged to donate Rs 50 lakh under the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) fund.Thukral said the group has spent almost Rs 3 crore for running the Medeor Hospital and they are ready to collaborate with the administration in further upgrading the facilities required to tackle the situation.“The Covid-19 volunteer group is a collaboration of corporates in Gurugram. It started with supporting the underprivileged Covid-19 patients who could not afford treatment along with helping the administration in running the designated Covid-19 hospital. Though today not too many patients are hospitalised, we decided to provide antigen detection kits as it is the need of the hour. The administration also approached us in helping them with testing kits. Our focus is only on upgrading the facilities required to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic,” said Thukral.Spokesperson of the DLF Foundation said they are providing over 2500 rapid antigen testing kits to health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/corporates-lend-helping-hand-provide-10-000-antigen-testing-kits/story-3u0bL46M2lq9dcO2N7IstI.html
28-07-2020||Gurugram||600 shanties demolished by MCG near Sikanderpur||As many as 600 illegal shanties were demolished and eight acres of public land was recovered during an anti-encroachment drive conducted by the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) in the Aravallis, near Sikanderpur on Monday, said officials of the civic body. The drive was conducted by the officials of the enforcement wing of the civic body and was carried out under heavy police protection. Over 200 police officers were present at the spot to give cover to MCG officials. There was a stray incident of stone-pelting allegedly by those living in the shanties, said MCG officials, adding that the matter was quickly resolved by the police personnel present at the spot. MCG officials said that nobody suffered any injuries during the drive. “We are in the process of identifying the people who threw stones at the officers of the enforcement team so that legal action can be initiated against them,” said Hariom Attri, joint commissioner, MCG, who was headed the drive on Monday. This is the third such drive to be conducted by MCG officials in the Aravalli region in the last seven days.Last week, on Thursday, the MCG had conducted a similar anti-encroachment drive in Sikanderpur and near Bristol Chowk. Nearly 300 illegal shanties were demolished in the drive. Before that, on Tuesday, the civic body had conducted another such drive in Sikanderpur and had demolished 70 illegal shanties. It had recovered two acres of land belonging to the MCG.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/600-shanties-demolished-by-mcg-near-sikanderpur/story-fUjcQXxrKRidO2H1stH7CI.html
28-07-2020||Delhi||SDMC introduces professional tax, doubles levy on rented commercial property||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on Monday passed the proposal to levy a professional tax on self-employed persons — a first for Delhi — and doubled the tax on rented commercial property. The municipal body also announced hike in tax on transfer of property in new tax proposals aimed at ramping up revenue collection hit by the national lockdown to contain spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The Aam Aadmi Party, which is in the Opposition in the SDMC House, threatened to launch an agitation against the move and called the introduction of a new tax and hike in other levies “inhuman”. AAP Delhi convenor and cabinet minister Gopal Rai said the move exposes the “anti-people mindset” of the BJP. He said the BJP should immediately release a white paper on the money spent by the municipal corporations.An SDMC officials said the professional tax would be levied on self-employed professionals such as doctors, lawyers, chartered accountants and architects, etc and those working in private firms for using civic amenities. As per the proposed tax slabs (see graphic), those earning less than Rs 50,000 per month won’t be taxed. Since it is a new tax, the proposal will now have to be cleared by the Delhi government before it is implemented. The SDMC House also approved the proposal to double the property tax on rented commercial property as per the recommendations of the municipal valuation committee-3 (MVC-3). The amount of tax will depend on the location of the property. “Under SDMC jurisdiction, there are around 9,000 to 10,000 commercial properties that have been rented out. So we hope to generate a revenue of Rs 90 crore to Rs 100 crore per annum. The move will not impact residential and commercial properties that are being run by the owners,” said Narendra Chawla, leader of the house in SDMC.For instance, the current commercial tax payable by a 83.6-square metre shop in a locality such as Defence Colony or South Extension is Rs 25,333. But if the shop is a rented property, then the owner will now have to pay Rs 50,666 as tax.The SDMC House, however, deferred the proposal to increase the electricity tax from the current 5% on the bill amount to 6%. The South corporation also approved hike in the tax on transfer of property. SDMC officials explained that the hike would be applicable on only those properties that have a circle rate of more than Rs 25 lakh. As per the new proposal, the transfer duty will now go up to 4%in case of male buyers from the current 3%; and to 3% from the current 2% for female buyers. “We hope to generate Rs 20 crore additional revenue with this move. We are not able to pay our doctors, engineers, sanitation workers, teachers, etc due to fund crunch. We have been compelled to take these tough steps as the Delhi government did not pay us our due amount of Rs 1300 crore as per fifth finance commission recommendations,” Chawla said.Senior AAP leader Durgesh Pathak, however, said the Delhi government owes no dues to the municipal bodies. He said the corporations in fact are receiving more money from the Delhi government under the AAP dispensation. The SDMC has also announced waiver of property tax for residents of unauthorised colonies between 2004 and 2018, if they pay house tax dues for 2019-20 and 2020-21.Anamika Mithilesh, SDMC mayor, said, “Due to Covid-19 pandemic, our financial condition has worsened, so we have decided to levy professional tax and hike tax rates in certain other categories. Professional tax will bring additional revenue of Rs 25 crore to the cash-strapped SDMC.” Professionals working in south Delhi, however, said that it would put additional burden on their pockets. “During the Covid-19 crisis, any additional tax will make hit the professionals hard since they are already reeling under pay cuts and job losses. Authorities at this juncture should be announcing allowances for them and schemes to help their businesses. The decision to levy a professional tax at this juncture is irrational,” said Shaunali Nanda, an architect, who runs an interior design business in Andrews Ganj.Dr Akanksha Singh, a gynaecologist who has a clinic in Lajpat Nagar, also criticised the move and said that when people were already struggling to pay so many different taxes, a new tax makes no sense. “Coronavirus pandemic has already broken the backbone of many professionals be it self-employed people or the service class. People are going through a lot of problems due to Covid-19 and imposing one more tax will only make things worse. They levy tax but do not do their job properly which is evident in Delhi roads get flooding every monsoon. Who is responsible for this?” she said.The new tax proposals triggered a political slugfest in the BJP-ruled corporation.The AAP threatened to take to the streets to protest the SDMC’s decision. Addressing a digital press conference, senior AAP leader Durgesh Pathak and Sangam Vihar MLA Dinesh Mohaniya said SDMC went ahead with the ‘triple tax burden’ despite Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta assuring on Sunday that no taxes would be increased.“The SDMC’s decision to impose three new taxes today is a price people will pay for the corruption of BJP councillors. Yesterday we opposed the BJP-ruled SDMC’s decision to hike taxes. The BJP wanted to increase professional tax, tax of residents of unauthorised colonies, property transfer tax and electricity tax. After strong opposition from AAP, Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta intervened and tweeted he had spoken to the SDMC mayor and requested him to withdraw the tax hike proposals. But unfortunately, today, the tax proposals were accepted. This means now the people of South Delhi will have to pay extra tax to SDMC,” Pathak said. Mithilesh said the professional tax slabs and 1% increase in transfer duty had been designed in a manner that it would not cost trouble the public. “We have taken these initiatives to increase our revenue so that we can pay our employees and serve better. Due to the pandemic, our financial condition has worsened and we are unable to pay our employees. AAP believes in blame-game politics. If AAP is so concerned about taxes, they should ask their government to clear our dues so that the corporations can function properly,” she said.Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta did not reply to the calls and text message sent to him for comment on the matter.Mohaniya said when the BJP came up with the tax proposal, the Congress supported the decision inside the house whereas AAP immediately staged a walkout.In response, the Congress called AAP a ‘B-Team of the BJP’. Abhishek Dutt, vice-president of the Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee said, “AAP is the B-team of the BJP. The AAP councillors walked out because they knew it very well that by walking out, the agenda will be passed. In fact, the Congress’ councillors stood in the House till the very end and objected to all agenda points.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sdmc-introduces-professional-tax-doubles-levy-on-rented-commercial-property/story-2m6w81l1aaKFeHYeLm0GsM.html
28-07-2020||Delhi||Kejriwal launches job portal to help boost Delhi’s economy, allows street vendors to operate||In a bid to revive Delhi’s economy, hit by the three-month nationwide Covid-19 lockdown, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday launched a job portal named ‘Rozgaar Bazaar’ and allowed all street vendors and hawkers in the city to resume their businesses. Addressing a digital press briefing, Kejriwal said the web portal will bridge the gap between job-seekers and employers and help boost the economy from the impact of the lockdown. “The people of Delhi have successfully fought Corona in the last three months. Now we have to move to the next stage, which is the economy. In this pandemic, many have lost their jobs, shops, other businesses, and factories were shut down. Many suffered from hunger. Even though the government arranged for their food during the lockdown, people need jobs. Businesses, shops and factories want to reopen, but they are not getting adequate workers. This is where our new web portal will help,” he said. The chief minister said hawkers and street vendors will now be allowed to operate from 10 am to 8 pm every day. He said it will be mandatory for them to ensure social distancing and take all other precautionary measures to avoid the spread of Covid-19. The order issued by chief secretary Vijay Dev stated that this system will initially be in place for a week, and its extension will be subject to compliance with Covid norms of social distancing, sanitising, not spitting in public and wearing masks. The order also made it clear that in Delhi, weekly markets will continue to be prohibited.“Due to some confusion, street vendors were not allowed to work. The Delhi government is now taking out special orders, under which the street vendors and hawkers will be allowed to operate their businesses,” Kejriwal said. The web portal -- jobs.delhi.gov.in -- allows job providers to recruit people and job-seekers to apply for multiple employment opportunities without having to pay a fee. Within the first six hours since the launch of the web portal at 12 noon on Monday, 51,403 job-seekers had registered and 1,071 employers had posted 18,585 vacancies. The biggest demand in terms of application received was for data entry operators (17,527), followed by teaching (7,567) and sales/marketing/business development roles (7,429), which also was the category with the highest number of vacancies (11,367) posted by employers. Around 1,298 job roles were for construction works, 1,051 for accountants and 1,030 for delivery persons.Kejriwal appealed to traders, industrialists, NGOs, and the media to join hands to revive Delhi’s economy. Employment minister Gopal Rai said a visitor will have to select between two options on the portal. “If you are looking for a job, choose the ‘I want a job’ option and if you are looking for an employee, choose the ‘I want staff’ option. Enter your 10-digit mobile number to register yourself, and get an OTP number. Enter the OTP on the screen. If you are looking for a job, choose the job categories of your interest, and create your profile by filling in the information requested in the form. Jobs matching your interest will be displayed. Click on the job of your choice and contact your employer by WhatsApp or call.” “Any employer you contact will be enlisted in your application list. With the ‘My Profile’ option, you can update your profile and you can log out,” he said. “If you are looking for an employee, please give all the information related to the job posting and your company. All the employment opportunities you post will be visible on the ‘My Jobs’ option. Whenever a person wishing to work will apply to your posted job, you will see it under ‘My Jobs’,” Rai explained. Kejriwal said shops, professionals, industries, construction companies, etc., are not able to find the required manpower to restart. “Many migrant workers had left for their homes during the lockdown. Several of them have returned, but many still continue to stay in their villages. I request all workers to come back to Delhi. The demand for jobs is increasing here,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kejriwal-launches-job-portal-to-help-boost-delhi-s-economy-allows-street-vendors-to-operate/story-BbS8rTlcKDv9e2WLRiRooN.html
28-07-2020||Delhi||IMD predicts ‘heavy rain’, warns of water-logging, jams in Delhi||The Regional Meteorological Centre, Delhi, has issued heavy rain warning for Delhi on July 29 and 30 when disruption of traffic and water logging is likely. The forecast says Delhi NCR is likely to experience moderate category rain with a few heavy spells (over 65 mm) during the evening on July 29 and 30.Disruption of traffic, flooding on major roads, water-logging and disruption of municipal services like water and power is likely. “Currently the monsoon trough (line of low pressure) is running close to the Himalayan foothills. From July 28 evening monsoon trough will shift southwards and continue to pass very close to DelhiNCR. During this period, southwesterly winds from Arabian Sea and easterly winds from Bay of Bengal will reach Haryana, Delhi NCR, west UP and north east Rajasthan. Under the influence of these systems heavy to very heavy rain will occur in these areas,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre. Presently Delhi has a rain deficit of 22%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/imd-predicts-heavy-rain-warns-of-water-logging-jams/story-EpSzdicpb59X63KydrMXIO.html
28-07-2020||Pune||Next on administration’s radar - to bring nursing homes in Covid-19 network||After having taken control of the majority of beds from large private hospitals, the district administration now has nursing homes on their radar to bring them into Covid-19 network.Officials from district administration on Monday held a meeting with representatives of Indian Medical Association (IMA), management of nursing homes, doctors and nursing bureaus to discuss with them the possibility of bringing their facilities in Covid-19 network as part of boosting health infrastructure to tackle the pandemic.According to Officer on Special Duty at Pune Divisional Commissionerate Saurabh Rao, there are around 700 small, medium and large nursing homes in the city of which around 100 are already are a part of the fight against Covid-19.“In today’s (Monday’s) meeting, we discussed the feasibility of bringing remaining nursing homes in Covid-19 network in our fight against the virus. We cannot bring all nursing homes into Covid-19 grid given that there are multiple challenges including treatment of non-covid patients. We are therefore exploring how many beds from some nursing homes can be used for Covid-19 patients,” said Rao.During the meeting, which came days after government constituted infra-task force, doctors from nursing homes and nursing bureaus raised issues including weekly offs and duty hours. “They basically wanted clarity on rules with the demand that those rules should be at par with government hospitals,” said Rao.Apart from the nursing home, the task force also discussed the possibility of bringing in PMC-run hospitals in Covid-19 network. According to Rao, the general practitioners association has over 600 members who have offered their services to private as well as government hospitals.The PMC has already taken control over 80 per cent beds from big hospitals in the city. Despite this, there have been complaints about the shortage of beds as the number of critical patients are goring while many from other districts are also coming to Pune for treatment.Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has projected that by August 31, there will be a shortage of 1,982 ventilators, 4.065 ICU beds without Oxygen, 7084 beds isolation beds with oxygen considering the rise of critical patients in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/next-on-administration-s-radar-to-bring-nursing-homes-in-covid-19-network/story-DCKYF6LFv3bzsXIcIsyS6N.html
28-07-2020||Pune||Pune to have three jumbo Covid care facilities soon||Pune will have three jumbo Covid care facilities soon, with a total capacity of 2,400 beds, it was decided on Monday, at a review meeting chaired by deputy chief minister and Pune guardian minister Ajit Pawar. As the number of Covid-19 patients are increasing and critical patients are not getting access to beds immediately in private hospitals, Pawar instructed the administration to create a total of three facilities.Already, an 800-bed facility is coming up at the Balewadi sports complex.The review meeting was attended by the district administration’s top brass involved in managing the Covid-19 pandemic in Pune, including the collector, the divisional commissioner and the police commissioner Saurabh Rao, officer on special duty at the divisional commissioner’s officer, said, “It has been decided to create three jumbo Covid care facilities which would be temporarily hospitals dedicated to critical Covid care. Each facility would have 800 beds. Of the 800 beds, 600 are oxygenated beds and 200 are ICU beds.”Rao said, “PMRDA is erecting one facility at Balewadi. The other two facilities would come up in city areas. Four places have been identified, but considering the infrastructure like water and electricity, the administration still has to finalise the locations. Right now, the locations under consideration are AIMISS college, Sanas Ground, College of Engineering Pune and Sangvi.”Divisional Commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said, “It is decided that the contractor would provide man power for the jumbo facilities. The administration is also upgrading Sassoon hospital. The expression of interest for two of the jumbo facilities will be published very soon.”Mhaisekar added, “July-end and August is critical. We are considering the worst-case scenarios as per various forecasts for doing the planning. As instructed by the guardian minister, we are preparing the infrastructure by considering the maximum critical patients and trying to give treatment to each patient.”Police Commissioner K Venkatesham said, “Administration is doing their duty, but citizens also need to take care. Citizens must need to keep social distance and wear masks. Citizens need to come out only if it is necessary and important.”Ajit Pawar said that the government would erect the infrastructure, but the city needs to take care of the manpower. Pawar instructed the administration to co-ordinate with medical universities and asked all medical students studying in their final year to join the medical corps involved in the Covid fight, for which a stipend would be provided.Box 1Cases in rural areas on the rise: collectorDistrict collector Naval Kishore Ram said that along with Pune, the number of cases in Pune’s rural districts are increasing. “Cases are increasing mainly in Haveli taluka and villages near the Pune. A large number of people from these areas are coming to the city or going to nearby industrial areas. The district administration cannot seal the rural areas completely,” Naval Kishore Ram said, adding that, for example, 1,500 residents of Manjri are working at the Serum institute. “How can the administration execute a strict lockdown in these villages? Rural areas have a scarcity of doctors but we are deputing more medical manpower,” he said.Box 2Keep watch on bills issued by private hospitals: PawarGuardian minister Ajit Pawar instructed the administration to keep a strict vigil on bills being issued by private hospitals and the cross-check the same. “Complaints are coming in that private hospitals are charging Covid patients exorbitant bills. If necessary, take action against the concerned hospitals,” Pawar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-to-have-three-jumbo-covid-care-facilities-soon/story-hDv8s89AhE90oGuFZPV0WO.html
28-07-2020||Pune||Pune’s Sassoon reports case of vertical transmission of Sars-Cov-2 virus from mother to new-born||BJ Medical College and Sassoon General Hospital in the city has reported a case of vertical transmission of Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 infection, from a mother to her baby, which doctors claim is the first such case in the country.The baby girl was delivered by the 22-year-old mother at the hospital on May 27.Vertical transmission involves the passing of the virus from a female vector to her offspring, both males and females.According to officials of the hospital, although the mother had tested negative for the virus in the RT-PCR test, the virus was detected in the baby’s nasopharyngeal swab, placenta and umbilical cord, which confirmed that the transmission was vertical.Dr Aarti Kinikar, head, paediatric department, said, “We had tested the mother for Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 infection through RT-PCR and she had tested negative. The baby, however, started showing symptoms like fever, lethargy and other signs of Covid-19, along with abnormal blood tests suggesting severe inflammation. The baby required intensive care, but recovered completely over a period of three weeks.”“The mother had a fever the day before the delivery and also signs of weakness which we presumed to be due to pregnancy,” she said.She further said, “Although she tested negative for the virus, she did transmit the infection in the child. However, after four weeks when we did an antibodies test, there was evidence of Covid-19 infection by a strong antibody response. It is possible that she recovered on her own. This was a very challenging case for us.”Dr Kinikar added that such confirmed cases have been reported in some cases in China and one case in the UK.Dr Murlidhar Tambe, dean, Sassoon General Hospital, said, “This is the first case report of vertical transmission from India. I congratulate the faculty and team members from all the concerned departments who have worked hard to treat the baby and the mother.”In an official statement, the hospital stated that the impact of Covid-19 in pregnant women and babies is still not known to the full extent. Vertical infection is well documented in the Zika virus and HIV.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sassoon-reports-case-of-vertical-transmission-of-sars-cov-2-virus-from-mother-to-new-born/story-9TuTCJff10vBOaFdaH5ftO.html
28-07-2020||Pune||Pune Fitness Club Association plan hunger strike over closure of gyms, fitness centres||The members of the Pune Fitness Club Association plan to go on a hunger strike if the gyms and fitness centres do not open in the city by August 5.“If we do not get government guidelines and permission to reopen gyms and fitness centres by August 5, we will go on a hunger strike,” said Nilesh Kale, president, Pune Fitness Club Association.The members also demanded to wave-off the rent and electricity bill for the month of August.Members of the association Rupesh Chavan, vice-president and Kaustubh Shegde, secretary of vice-president have also raised issues faced by the fitness industry during the lockdown period.Gymnasiums and fitness centres in the city have been shut since March 2020, which has left trainers and coaches unemployed for the past four months.“We are unable to pay rent, electricity bills and salaries to our employees,” said Shankar Baliram Salgar, owner of SBS Fitness Centre in the city.There are almost 3,000 gyms among which 1,500 are micro gyms in Pune which has remained shut, having a huge impact on the financial status of the owners of the gyms and fitness trainers. The fitness industry has suffered a total loss of approximately Rs 30 crore in the past four months. The monthly revenue of a small gym is Rs 1.5 to 2 lakh per month while the large fitness centres earn Rs 8 lakh to 12 lakh per month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-fitness-club-association-plan-hunger-strike-over-closure-of-gyms-fitness-centres/story-XoI8Jll8fRYXmEHnOWbYuI.html
28-07-2020||Delhi||Cinema halls in Delhi gear up to resume operations||While the Centre is yet to take a final call on when to allow cinema halls to resume operations, multiplexes are putting measures in place to ensure the safety of moviegoers.From paperless tickets and online bookings to staggered seating and show timings, multiplexes have prepared detailed Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) to ensure social distancing to prevent the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Multiplexes have been shut since March 12 in Delhi due to the pandemic.Most cinema halls, especially multiplexes, are doing away with the system of issuing paper tickets at the counters. All bookings will be done online, even those who walk into the theatres can book tickets online using QR codes.Gautam Dutta, CEO, PVR Cinemas, said, “In order to minimise human contact, digital transactions have been enabled via e-wallets and other online aggregators…To facilitate paperless movie ticket purchases at the box office, QR codes that can be scanned to enter the cinema will now be sent to customers’ phones.”The seating arrangement will be staggered depending on the Centre’s guidelines. Most halls plan to leave one seat between individuals while others are planning to leave one seat between two distinct bookings. They also plan to rework show timings in such a way that intermissions and endings don’t clash.Rajiv Patni, COO, INOX Leisure Ltd, said, “From a distancing perspective, we already have our back-end algorithm ready, which would leave a seat’s gap between two distinct bookings. Our shows will be programmed in such a manner that there are no simultaneous entries, intermissions or exits.”Most multiplexes are planning to do away with frisking individuals at the entrance. But they will be screened using thermal scanners and it will be mandatory for people to wear masks.People can order food online, but they will have to go to the counter to collect it, as most multiplexes are planning to discontinue delivery services inside the hall to minimise contact.To ensure a safe environment inside the halls, there is a detailed plan to sanitise them after each show. Devang Sampat, CEO, Cinepolis India and director of the multiplexes association of India, said, “Touchpoints such as handrails and door handles will be sanitised before, during and after each show. Seats will be sanitised after each show. After each show, row-wise exit in a social distanced manner will be facilitated by our staff. Our washrooms will also be sanitised and disinfected every two hours and cleaned throughout the day.”For the safety of its staff, PPE kits with masks, gloves and sanitiser will be provided to each employee. “Employees will share their Aarogya Setu status prior to entry, on a daily basis. They will also be thermally screened at the entrance and provided new face masks for safety,” said Sampat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/cinema-halls-in-delhi-gear-up-to-resume-operations/story-fYp6GZCw9r5gq1dxqUxP9H.html
28-07-2020||Delhi||Debris dumped on Yamuna floodplains and river bed, NGT asks pollution body to file report||The National Green Tribunal (NGT)-appointed Yamuna Monitoring Committee has asked the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) to submit a report on the dumping of waste, including material used for manufacturing face masks, and construction debris at two sites on the Yamuna floodplains that could be “constricting” the flow of the river.The waste has been dumped underneath the Signature Bridge and the Sarai Kale Khan flyover. NGT asked for the report after an NGO, South Asian Network on Dams, Rivers and People (SANDRP), posted pictures and videos of the dump on the floodplains.As per an NGT order of 2015, any kind of dumping of waste or construction and demolition debris in and around the floodplains is prohibited. Anyone who is found violating the order is liable to pay an environmental compensation charge of up to ₹50,000 under the ‘polluter pays’ principle.A team of DPCC environmental engineers inspected the two sites on Monday. “We are inspecting the sites for the violations both on the floodplains as well as the river bed. We may continue till Tuesday, after which we will be able to submit a report,” said a senior DPCC official, who did not wish to be named.According to activists who flagged the issue, discarded material used for making face masks was dumped on the floodplains beneath the Signature Bridge.“Besides, there is a 3-4 foot tall mound of debris on the floodplains, some of which has toppled into the river bed underneath the Sarai Kale Khan bridge. There is so much debris that an active river channel is now disconnected from the main river. The debris was dumped recently by government agencies, which have been engaged in construction activity around the river,” said Bhim Singh Rawat of SANDRP.He added that the situation regarding bridges on Yamuna river in Delhi is alarming as so far 25 road bridges, including three barrages-cum-bridges, four Metro bridges and two railway bridges have come up on the river while the debris has continuously been dumped on the floodplains. It is cleared after much effort and resurfaces with every new construction.The two-member Yamuna Monitoring Committee comprising former Delhi chief secretary Shailaja Chandra and retired expert member BS Sajwan said it has ordered an inspection and a detailed report is awaited. “We have asked DPCC to examine the issue in detail and submit a report to us,” a member of the committee said.Earlier this year also, debris had been dumped underneath the Nizamuddin Bridge and the committee had asked the Delhi Development Authority (DDA), which is the primary custodian of the floodplains to clear the floodplains of the debris. “DDA is responsible for preventing any kind of dumping on the floodplains. They had earlier told us that CCTV cameras have been installed and security personnel deployed to prevent such violations,” the member said.The DDA spokesperson did not respond to request for comment.In April 2019, the NGT committee had questioned the public works department (PWD), the Delhi Tourism department and Transport Development Corporate Ltd (DTTDC), the government agencies responsible for the construction and management of the Signature Bridge, about the dumping of construction debris into the river, affecting its flow. The agencies were also fined for the violations.Manoj Misra, the convenor of the Yamuna Jiye Abhiyan, said that dumping of construction debris has been continuing unabated despite NGT orders and needs to be stopped immediately to save the river. “Unfortunately, government agencies have been dumping debris on the floodplains time and again, which is capable of altering the flow of the river. NGT must take a strong view in the matter and ensure dumping is prevented at any cost,” said Misra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/debris-dumped-on-yamuna-floodplains-and-river-bed-ngt-asks-pollution-body-to-file-report/story-wJLT8KRyHIghwj856gYI4N.html
28-07-2020||Pune||22-year-old woman kills 4-yr-old daughter in Sangvi||A 22-year-old woman has been arrested for allegedly killing her four-year-old daughter in Pimple Gurav, Pimpri-Chinchwad, on Monday.The woman has been identified as Savita Deepak Kakade (22), a resident of a building in Bhalekarnagar in Sangvi. The incident occurred between 8am and 12 noon on Monday, according to the police. She lived with her husband, who is a taxi driver, two children and her in-laws.“Her mother-in-law passed away recently and they were observing the tenth day since her death. The woman was alone with the children in the house. She says she got angry because the child was not listening to her,” said senior police inspector Ranganath Unde of Sangvi police station.The woman allegedly slammed the child’s head on the wall and slashed her throat as well. The body was sent for post-mortem to a local hospital and handed over to the father as the woman had been arrested.The husband came home from the rites of his mother to find the daughter in the house, according to the police. Their 6-month-old son was in the house when the elder child was killed. She will be produced in court for further custody on Tuesday.A case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Sangvi police station against the woman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/22-year-old-woman-kills-4-yr-old-daughter-in-sangvi/story-yIG9I5cUZiT1IkGhTwb43M.html
28-07-2020||Pune||Pune’s SPPU receives 27,000 applications for 2020-21 courses||Pune: The admission process for various courses of Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has started and, this year, it received more than 27,000 applications from across the country. The figure has crossed the last year’s number, which was 26,000, and more applications are expected as the last date is August 10. Maximum applications — 16,000 — have come for Science and Technology department courses. “We are getting a good response this year for all streams,” said Uttam Chavan, SPPU deputy registrar, academic admissions department. The application process went online for 96 graduate and post-graduate courses from 52 departments in SPPU due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The admission process started from June 1 for the academic year 2020-21. “It is good to see such a huge response and we hope that there will be no impact on actual admissions,” said Chavan. Sneha Mishra, who has applied for MA English in SPPU, said, “I completed my Bachelor of Arts in English from a different college, but want to pursue my post-graduation from SPPU English department. I have applied for it and hope that the Corona crisis situation is addressed soon. Post admission in SPPU, I wish that life goes back to normal and I could enjoy student life in campus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sppu-receives-27k-applications-for-academic-year-courses/story-yEcx4hR0C5KnZXbTvBDJgI.html
28-07-2020||Pune||Doctors stage protest at Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital||Doctors at the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation-run Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital (PCMC) staged a protest at the hospital premises on Monday morning after they alleged that Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) corporator Sandip Waghere verbally abused a doctor after one patient died under treatment on Sunday night. Following a symbolic protest, doctors resumed duty on Monday afternoon after they met PCMC mayor Usha Dhore. “Police protection will be provided to doctors and municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar will take a decision soon. The incident will be inquired and no FIR has been lodged. The demands of medical staff like salary, special Covid allowance have been met,” said Dhore. Waghere, corporator of ward number 21, denied any wrongdoing and claimed that he was present at the hospital as the patient was his friend’s grandmother. “When I reached the hospital at 11:05 pm, the patient had already died. The doctor on duty said that the patient will be shifted to the ICU ward even though she had died half an hour before. So, I just asked them questions on the treatment given to the 62-year-old Covid positive woman,” said Waghere.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/doctors-stage-protest-at-yashwantrao-chavan-memorial-hospital/story-AVhnDJl8yy43wc3iMnpbjO.html
28-07-2020||Pune||Hyacinth menace breeds mosquitoes as PMC waters down the issue||Pune: The Covid situation has impacted various civic works in the city, including removal of hyacinth from water bodies. Lack of coordination between Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) health department and transport department over the removal of the dangerous invasive plant has left residents living on the banks of lakes complain about increase of mosquito intensity in their localities. In May, PMC under former civic chief Shekhar Gaikwad had decided to hand over the hyacinth removal work to transport department as the health department was busy tackling the coronavirus situation. The surface of Mula-Mutha riverbed, Nanasaheb Peshwe lake, Sarasbaug Peshwe Park lake, Pashan lake and the Mula-Mutha stretch from Sangamwadi till Mundhwa Jackwell project are covering up with hyacinth. As a standard practice, hyacinth is removed before monsoon by the health department with the help from regional ward offices. Though the transport department was tasked with the removal process, the release of tender has ran into issues leading to the department asking its health counterpart to complete the task. Officials of the transport department, on condition of anonymity, said that the department had agreed to only provide vehicles and equipment for the removal of hyacinth, while the main responsibility lay with the health department. However, the health department officials maintained that the onus laid with the transport department for keeping water bodies clean. RTI activist Vijay Kumbhar alleged that the hyacinth tender is a moneymaking exercise. “Whatever be the crisis, work at the corporation for the benefit of citizens’ health must not be stopped, ignored or delayed. Water hyacinth could cause many health issues for residents and it is harmful to the aquatic life. PMC should have completed the cleaning task before monsoon,” he said. Pashan resident Satish Pande said, “This year too, hyacinth removal work has been delayed, and Covid-19 situation has added to our woes. Residents have reported of suffering from fever and dengue,” he said. Despite many attempts, PMC health chief Ramchandra Hankare could not be reached as his phone was switched off. Pune mayor Muralidhar Mohol said that the civic body will ensure that the hyacinth is removed at the earliest. “Our health department has a big task to handle. Hence, we will take help from different departments to address this issue,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hyacinth-menace-breeds-insects-as-pmc-waters-down-the-issue/story-em00pnWc9Pd1S0SJkkM84J.html
28-07-2020||Pune||Three minors in custody for murder of 36-year-old in Pune||Three minors were apprehended by the Pimpri-Chinchwad police for the murder of a man in Chakan. The 36-year-old was allegedly killed by the group on a public road in Chakan on Sunday evening, according to the police. The deceased was identified as Rajendra Jalinder Kale, a resident of Medankarwadi in Khed area of Pune. The incident happened in Siddhivinayaknagar area of Medankarwadi around 7:15pm on Sunday. “The accused, all minors, were arrested on Monday. One of them has criminal record,” said sub-inspector Dandage of Chakan police station who is investigating the case. A complaint was lodged by Sonali Rajendra Kale (31), wife of the deceased. “Kale was working in a company in Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC). He owned one guntha plot in Kadachiwadi. Back in 2018, one of the accused had opposed some drainage pipeline work in the area and a case of extortion was registered against him,” said senior inspector Prakash Dhas of Chakan police station. A case under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Chakan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-minors-in-custody-for-murder-of-36-year-old-in-pune/story-UZY075pAH3EIRPc76EDFKJ.html
