29-07-2020||Chandigarh||15 more Tru NAAT machines installed in Punjab||The state government has procured 15 more Tru NAAT machines for testing so that covid-19 patients are detected, tested and isolated early to prevent the spread of the disease. Thirty machines are functional in government hospitals. Health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Singh Sidhu said guidelines had been issued to all government health facilities in the state for Tru NAAT testing. “Suspected patients among covid-19 warriors like healthcare workers, doctors, police, administrative officials, Pregnant Women, SARI patients, and emergency surgery patients shall be prioritised for Tru NAAT testing in the state,” Sidhu said.He said that the district Amritsar, Mohali and Jalandhar have been allocated two machines each while three machines have been installed in Ludhiana. He said that the other districts have been given one machine each. One machine each has been given to three government medical colleges also.He said the turnaround time for results gets reduced in these machines. For instance, in four channel machines, four tests can be done at a time and four results can be retrieved in a mere one-and-a-half hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/15-more-tru-naat-machines-installed-in-punjab/story-meuIxGGeuIGdjJhWC78J5M.html
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s positivity rate shoots up to 9.6% in July as admn ramps up Covid testing||As the number of infections crossed the 500 mark in July with ramped up testing numbers in Chandigarh, the confirmation rate (also known as test positivity rate) has gone up to 7.3%, a surge of 1.3% from the onset of this month. Till June, out of every 100 people being tested, only around five were being confirmed positive, which has now increased to more than seven. It is mainly due to the confirmation rate of July being a record high at 9.6% with two days still to go. This trend is being witnessed amid the UT conducting around 40% of the total tests in just July and 50% of the total cases have also surfaced in the same period.Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head of the department of community medicine and school of public health at the PGIMER, says this shows the pandemic is on the upswing. “Test, track, and treat is the only option. World Health Organisation suggests that test positivity rate should be below 5%. Thus, here the strategy should be to increase the testing numbers and surveillance for the symptomatic people. With more samples being tested, more people with the infection will be identified and sent to isolation and it will help in containing the outbreak,” he said.“With increase in testing numbers, more people are testing positive, pushing up the confirmation rate,” said UT health secretary Arun Gupta. “We have a targeted approach towards testing and the numbers are gradually going up. The testing for all non-family contacts was not very much desired earlier, as mostly they were isolated with the provision that they will check for symptoms and report to the department. Now, we have decided to test all contacts.”Dr G Dewan, director of the health and family welfare department, said: “ We have started door-to-door survey on the basis of mapping again. Moreover, we have started taking samples in all government hospitals. All patients reporting to flu clinics are tested and hospitalised if positive. Also, people are less afraid to come forward to get tested now, which has increased the testing numbers.”Dr RS Bedi, former president of Indian Medical Association’s Chandigarh chapter, said testing more number of people, even if they are not from the high-risk category, makes sense and the upward trend should continue. “Testing should be open to all to detect the infection,” he said. Meanwhile, the UT health department is planning to introduce rapid antigen testing to cover asymptomatic cases across government hospitals and further increase the testing numbers. At least 1,000 such testing kits are already being procured by the PGIMER to be used primarily for OPD patients to validate their usefulness.“The order for around 2,000 antigen test kits will be placed and they are expected to come in the first week of August. This will increase the testing numbers, even though the authenticity of the tests is low,” a senior UT health official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-positivity-rate-shoots-up-to-9-6-in-july-as-admn-ramps-up-covid-testing/story-ZxB7gt0cJaepKpFgOxq9GN.html
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||Another record spike: 25 deaths, 568 new Covid infections in Punjab||In yet another single-day spike, Punjab on Wednesday reported 25 deaths and 568 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s positive patients’ count to 14,946 and death toll to 361. According to the state government’s bulletin, Jalandhar reported 10 deaths, followed by nine in Ludhiana, three in Amritsar, two in Gurdaspur, and one in Patiala. CONG’S SAMANA MLA TESTS POSITIVE Senior Congress leader and MLA from Samrala Amrik Singh Dhillon tested positive for Covid-19 in the rapid antigen test, while his RT PCR report is still awaited, said civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga. Besides, nine people died and 60 tested positive for the virus in Ludhiana district. Of the positive patients, 53 re from Ludhiana and seven are from other states/district. DCP AMONG 75 TEST POSITIVE IN AMRITSARThree more Covid-19 patients—two from Amritsar and one from Gurdaspur—succumbed to the disease on Wednesday, health officials said. Besides, deputy commissioner of police (DCP-law and order of Amritsar city), Jagmohan Singh, and 74 others tested positive in the district. Also on Wednesday, 33 more people were found infected of Covid-19 in Gurdaspur district and 18 others in Tarn Taran district.Forty-seven people tested positive and three deaths were reported in Jalandhar district on Wednesday, as per the field reports. Six people tested positive in Kapurthala.Patiala district reported one death and 84 positive cases. Of the positive cases, 38 are from Patiala city, 14 from Nabha, six from Rajpura, five from Patran, two from Samana, one from Sanaur and 18 from different villages across the district.63 FRESH CASES IN BATHINDABathinda reported 63 fresh cases, Muktsar eight and Ferozepur two. Thirty-one people contracted the infection in Sangrur. Of these, seven each are from Sangrur and Dhuri, four each from Moonak, Bhawanigarh and Malerkotla, three from Sunam and one each from Amargarh and Kauhrian blocks.Meanwhile, Mohali reported 27 fresh infections. These include a police constable and two Punjab School Education Board officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/another-record-spike-25-deaths-568-new-covid-infections-in-punjab/story-PeNEnlipkuAQACeomUfDaM.html
29-07-2020||City||PPCB, remote sensing centre join hands to curb stubble fires||Chandigarh To check burning of paddy stubble during the kharif harvest expected to begin from October 1, the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) and the Punjab Remote Sensing Centre (PRSC) will coordinate to ensure the entire effort gets a common platform. The PRSC, based at Ludhiana, has developed an android-based mobile application to provide end-to-end solution for reporting and action taken for each fire incident captured through satellite. “Now the district administration including deputy commissioner, patwari, SDM, district police, nodal officers, PPCB staff, even officers up to the level chief secretary would also be involved in the monitoring system. In the previous years, synchronicity in operations to stop stubble burning was lacking,” said a PPCB officer. This year, the location of every incident will be visited within two days and environment compensation would be imposed on the farmer. In 2019 kharif, around 51,000 cases were reported. “It was desired by the state government that a mobile and web based application should be developed, in which role based login (village nodal, cluster, sub division/tehsil and district level) was possible,” said Brijendra Pateria, head, PRSC. He added that the ATR will be generated after the field officers visit the burning site. A semi automatic system is already in operation (SMS alert system). PPCB member secretary Krunesh Garg added the ATR information will be generated for each active fire point that the PRSC reported through satellite data analysis, using the mobile application. This information will be used as input to the dashboard for the ATR that PRSC has developed. The Centre, meanwhile, has sanctioned a sum of Rs. 250 crore for the Punjab government under the crop residue management scheme for subsidising the purchase of 23,000 machines for in situ management of paddy. Over the past two years, around 51,000 such machines have been given to farmers at subsidy ranging between 50% and 80%. In a video conference held with officials at the Centre, the Punjab government has asked for Rs 337 crore. “Over 2018 and 2019, we received Rs. 500 crore to get machines. This year too, we will start a process for empaneling companies to manufacture and sell machines for in situ management of paddy stubble,” said Punjab agriculture secretary, Kahan Singh Pannu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ppcb-remote-sensing-centre-join-hands-to-curb-stubble-fires/story-wR7HHCMP66lozZY38HDQdO.html
29-07-2020||City||Noida: President, members’ posts vacant since June 16 at district consumer forum||GREATER NOIDA: Though the daily Cause Lists are being put up online, the district consumer disputes’ redressal forum has not been not functioning as the forum has had no president or members since June 16. The advocates’ association has now demanded early posting of president and members.“I have been given only the Drawing-Disbursing Officer (DDO) powers of the Gautam Budh Nagar district consumer forum. I cannot hear cases. The lone member Nirmala Singh’s term period too expired on June 15. Presently at the district forum, there is no president and no member. Cause Lists were being displayed at the website. Staff then marks next the date for such cases,” said MP Singh, president, Ghaziabad district consumer forum on Wednesday.“At Ghaziabad, too, we are not able to function as member posts are lying vacant. A president and at least one member is a must to conduct hear complaints and issue orders. Normally, the district forum has one president and two members’ posts,” said Singh.“The process of recruitment of presidents and members at various forums in state districts has been initiated. By mid-August, we hope to get the posts at Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad filled,” said Singh.The advocates’ association has appealed to the state government to fill the consumer forum posts so that consumers’ complaints are resolved. “We have requested that the president and members be appointed immediately as consumers are suffering,” Rajinder Dhar, president, district consumer forum advocates’ association said on Wednesday.“The association has requested complainants and advocates not to visit the forum just to see their case in the Cause List. Forum staff automatically gives another date in the case file,” said Dhar.A total of 16 cases were listed for Wednesday. Gunjan Sharma, an advocate, said, “I had to come here for some other district court’s cases so it is not a problem for me to visit the forum. The next dates are being given without any signature or presence of complainant or respondent representative. Today, a few complainants came to the forum as they were not aware that the forum was non-functional.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-president-members-posts-vacant-since-june-16-at-district-consumer-forum/story-6wy05NtP053OnUautafRKM.html
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||Schools cry foul after Punjab School Education Board orders them to pay for its DTH lectures||Patiala The Punjab education department has ordered all 10,000-odd private schools, affiliated to the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB), to pay a one-time yearly ‘contributing amount’ to fund broadcast of online lectures that the state board prepares on Direct-to-Home (DTH) format on Doordarshan channel. The amount demanded from schools goes up to Rs 8,400 depending upon the level of education offered. Puneet Sehgal, programme head Doordarshan, said, “The education department is broadcasting lectures from 9am to 4pm. We charge Rs 2,800 for 30 minutes. As they are our major customers we give them one hour for free.” The order, in the regard, issued on Tuesday, reads, “Punjab is struggling with economic and social crisis due to covid-19 pandemic.The study of children is being affected due to closure of schools. Therefore, lectures related to syllabus of all classes of the PSEB will be broadcast by education department. So, the decision of taking contribution money in one go from these schools was taken in a meeting held on May 15 by board.”According to the order, senior secondary schools will have to deposit Rs 8,400; high schools Rs 6,000; middle schools; Rs 2400 and primary schools Rs 1,200. The money has to be deposited in one go. Last week, the government announced that government schools in the state will not charge any admission, re-admission and tuition fee from students for the 2020-21 academic session due to the covid-19 crisis. Punjab director general school education, Mohammad Tayyab, who is also the PSEB secretary, said, “The syllabus of affiliated schools is the same as government schools. We have, therefore, extended the service for them too. It’s just a minimal amount.” Jatinder Singh Narula, president, Affiliated Schools Welfare Association, Patiala, said, “We never asked the Punjab government to broadcast lectures on a DTH channel. State government has announced that it will not collect any fee from government school students. Now, to meet their expenses, they are forcing us to pay.”Ravinder Singh Mann, president, Recognised and Affiliated Schools Association, Punjab, said, “We are not ready to pay. We will try to reason with the government first. If this fails, we will move court. The government cannot take such major decisions without our participation.” Hardeep Todarpur, teacher, Government Senior Secondary School, Kakrala, said, “Practically it’s not possible to provide education to students via broadcasting lecture on DTH. The majority just stays away, only the few intelligent ones attend this lecture.”Patiala DEO Harinder Kaur said, “We are broadcasting lectures on DTH. Every student can avail this service whether he is studying in private or government schools.”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/schools-cry-foul-after-punjab-school-education-board-orders-them-to-pay-for-its-dth-lectures/story-egZgb8BCPtwyDPOMMLBaZJ.html
29-07-2020||Pune||City reports highest discharges, 1,308 fresh cases||Pune saw 2,543 Covid-19 patients discharged on Wednesday, after being declared as cured of the infection. This is the highest number of people discharged in just 24 hours in the city. This takes the progressive count of those being cured to 32,623 as per data released by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). The state health department reported 1,458 fresh positives in Pune on Wednesday, taking the progressive positive count to 55,035. The state also reported 40 deaths in the city, taking the death toll in PMC to 1,358. The PMC’s progressive count of Covid-19 cases stood at 51,738, including 1,308 fresh cases reported on Wednesday, as per its own data. The death toll as per the civic body stood at 1,254 including 39 deaths reported on Wednesday. The deaths included a nine-month-old girl, reported dead from the Bharati Vidyapeeth hospital, a resident of Yerawada. Of the 17,861 active cases, 845 are in critical care of which 432 are on the ventilator and 413 in ICUs without a ventilator. Details of the 39 deaths include 10 deaths reported from Sassoon General Hospital, four deaths each from Bharati Vidyapeeth hospital, Deenanath Mangeshkar and Inlaks & Budhrani hospital; three deaths from Symbiosis hospital; two deaths each from Naidu hospital, O&P hospital and Jehangir hospital; and one death each from KEM, Surya Sahyadri, District Hospital - Aundh, Kashibai Navale, Sahyadri Hospital, Inamdar hospital and Shree hospital. Four deaths were reported of residents from out of PMC limits - two each from O&P hospital and Sassoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/city-reports-highest-discharges-1-308-fresh-cases/story-fQx4eFPJmvaydBxviiARsK.html
29-07-2020||City||Modified gypsies: Act against legislators in 2 weeks, HC to Punjab||Chandigarh The Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday disposed of a plea after the state government promised that it will act within two weeks against MLAs and MPs for violations, if any, of Motor Vehicle law. The high court bench of chief justice RS Jha said that the petition is disposed of in view of state’s undertaking that action will be taken within two weeks. The petitioner, a Jalandhar resident, had alleged that Members of Parliament (MPs), MLAs, mayors and other VIPs are using modified private gypsies which resemble to the government police gypsies by pasting stickers of Punjab police. It is being done to show off their high status in the society by going against the law and without any permission from the competent authority, the court was told adding that many of them are having more number of security personnel than sanctioned, and that these personnel were being used for their family members as well. It had demanded action against the owners of such gypsies, which have been modified as a government pilot gypsy fitted with a red blue beacon and siren. The petition had also alleged that many of them had black films on mirrors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/modified-gypsies-act-against-legislators-in-2-weeks-hc-to-punjab/story-awARy3zz5R7JZ4ObqfBmXP.html
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn faltered on demarcating Bapu Dham containment, buffer zone: WHO report||While appreciating the initiatives taken by the UT administration in the Bapu Dham Colony containment zones, the WHO, in a report submitted with administration also highlighted the lapses related to demarcation of containment zones, sampling, data analysis and screening.WHO consultant Dr Srinivasan Selvamani presented the Bapu Dham epidemiological study to Punjab governor and UT administrator VPS Badnore on Wednesday.WHERE UT LAPSEDThe report states, “Demarcation of containment and buffer zones in Bapu Dham Colony was not done as per the guidelines of Government of India hence there was no delineation of activities conducted in these zones.”Daily screening of population (part or complete) was not conducted to detect positive cases and no provision for on-site sampling was made by the UT administration, the report stated.The report also said there was no data analysis for action and feedback. “The administration did not carry out stratification of data of the positive cases and contacts for better understanding of the chain of transmission and guiding decision,” the report pointed out.WHERE UT GAINEDThe report appreciated the timely action of the administration in containing the spread of infection in the colony. The administration’s efforts for aggressive contact tracing and quarantine of contacts were cited as the best practice, which could be imitated by other states and UTs.The administration’s imposition of strict perimeter control, setting up of Rapid Response Teams and involvement of Civil Defence as a part of containment strategy was highlighted as ‘good work’.The report also appreciated the setting up a local dispensary and intensive sanitisation operation done by the municipal corporation.The report praised deputy commissioner Mandip Singh Brar for involving volunteers for counselling and motivating people. They acted as a link between the community and the administration, the report stated.The report appreciated the administration in ensuring regular supply of essential commodities, including milk and vegetables at doorsteps. “Another innovation was availability of mobile ATM vans and supply of medicines through Rogi Kalayan Samiti,” the report stated.RECOMMENDATIONSThe WHO representative advised, “As pockets of Bapu Dham continue to open and the threat of reemergence continues globally, nationally and in Chandigarh, surveillance will play an important role in identifying the early re-emergence of cases in the community. “Since active house-to-house screening is not a feasible option, there is a need to strengthen passive surveillance and reporting,” the report suggested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-faltered-on-demarcating-bapu-dham-containment-buffer-zone-who-report/story-XESGFSKriJWBPUealV8TVO.html
29-07-2020||City||Allottees to complete Jaypee’s Kalypso Court project in Greater Noida||The Uttar Pradesh Real Estate Regulatory Authority (UP-Rera) has formed a committee to monitor Kalypso Court, a high-rise in Noida sector 128 that was formally handed over to its residents’ association for completion on WednesdayHT had reported on Monday that the association was offered the task last week by the UP-Rera in exercise of its powers under the UP-Rera Act. Jaiprakash Associate Limited (JAL) had launched the project in 2007 and was to deliver 1,140 residential unit by 2018, which it failed to do, forcing the homebuyers to approach the authority last year. Although the UP-Rera had made such an offer to associations of other projects too, this was the first time that an association had accepted.“Other developers refrained from investing in the project. The apartment owners’ association (AOA) too faced difficulty in hiring suitable developers. Now, we have involved the promoter and allottees to complete the project. If this experiment succeeds, the formula will be replicated in other such projects too,” said Balvinder Kumar, a member of the UP-Rera and now also the chairperson of the committee monitoring the Kalypso Court project.UP-Rera chairperson Rajive Kumar said, “Our aim is for completion of projects. Conciliation consultant RD Paliwal got the final proposal acceptable to allottees and promoter.”Kalypso Court is a multi-tower group housing project and comprises 15 towers, out of which 11 were handed over to allottees. The remaining towers are incomplete and have 304 units. Progressive Welfare Society, the association, has 152 members with units in the incomplete towers.The association said it had agreed to take up the project with JAL as contractor. Jayesh Patel, its president, had said they hoped to complete it within 12 months.The monitoring committee under Kumar will have the authority’s finance controller, technical advisor and a consultant from the project management division as members. The Noida Authority CEO, an auditor appointed by UP-Rera, the financial institution concerned and AOA members will also be part of the committee.The UP-Rera will review the progress of the project on a quarterly basis. The Authority will shift the project to the special category of projects, as per the provisions of section 8 of Rera Act. JAL will continue to update the details of the project, including the quarterly progress report.Funding UP-Rera secretary Abrar Ahmed said, “As per the promoter (JAL), the sum of remaining receivables from the sold units to the allottees of these towers is ₹90.09 crore and expected receivables from 19 unsold units is about ₹25.06 crore. The cost of completing the remaining development work is ₹103.03 crore. This includes ₹96.06 crore towards completing the remaining towers, ₹5.71 crore towards cluster development and ₹1.01 crore towards the infrastructure development cost of the master plan. Additional expenditure is estimated to be ₹31.12 crore.”“The promoter agreed to contribute ₹45 crore for the development of the project, out of which ₹12 crore will be deposited upfront into a separate account to be opened in compliance of the orders of the Authority. The project has a positive cash flow of about ₹26 crore . As per the promoter, the project can be completed within 18 months, including 3 months for resource mobilization,” Ahmed said.The promoter could not be reached for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/allottees-to-complete-jaypee-s-kalypso-court-project-in-greater-noida/story-oFzbc7mbhRlkTBc3Ev5U8L.html
29-07-2020||City||Woman tries to set herself on fire outside Ghaziabad SSP’s office over land dispute||A 35-year-old woman from Loni allegedly tried to self-immolate outside the office of the district’s senior superintendent of police alleging inaction on part of the police in a land dispute case she had filed. Officers foiled the and also booked her under provisions of the CrPC, the police said. Bail was granted to her by an executive magistrate later.The woman, Shahna Parveen, is a resident of Jafrabad in Delhi and has a land dispute with two locals – Ali Jaan and Mohammad Haneef – who are residents of Loni. According to the police, the plot in question is in Loni’s Ashok Vihar of about 250 square metres while about 50 square metres of it is presently vacant. The two men are stated to be taking up some construction at the site to which the woman objected.“The woman says that she is the owner of the plot while the opposite party also claims ownership. Around 11am on Wednesday, she was spotted by police personnel on duty outside the SSP’s office with a can of inflammable substance. She was immediately nabbed and prevented from taking any drastic step. She was taken to the women’s police station where she was booked under Section 151 (preventive arrest) of Code of Criminal Procedure but later granted bail,” said Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, superintendent of police (rural). The police said the woman was not able to produce any document in support of her claim over the piece of land. “There was some altercation on July 14 after which the police booked the two men, Ali Jaan and Mohammad Haneef, under CrPC 151. After the self-immolation attempt on Wednesday, the woman was asked to go and meet the sub-divisional magistrate of Loni and the area’s circle officer was also asked to take up her complaint. However, she was not able to produce any documentary evidence to support her claim,” Jadaun added. The officials said that the SDM in his directions on Wednesday evening to the local police directed that both parties will approach the court for resolution of the matter as it is civil in nature. The SDM also directed the local police to maintain status quo at the site and not allow any construction activity, Jadaun added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-tries-to-set-herself-on-fire-outside-ghaziabad-ssp-s-office-over-land-dispute/story-kXlnSqJ793C297HYHOXJUL.html
29-07-2020||Noida||Noida: Man arrested for raping minor daughter||Police on Wednesday arrested a 45-year-old man in Noida for allegedly raping and abusing his minor daughter, officials said. The man, a daily wager who hails from Bihar, is a habitual drinker and had raped his 13-year-old daughter, police said. The victim’s mother lodged a complaint with the Phase-2 police on July 24 and the man has been on the run since then. According to deputy commissioner of police (DCP), women safety, Vrinda Shukla, the complainant mentioned that the man had been sexually abusing the girl for a long time. “He rape his daughter repeatedly after consuming liquor, but the fear of shame kept her from filing a complaint. Finally, the mother gathered courage to register a police complaint. The man was arrested on Wednesday from near a bus stand,” Shukla said. The suspect was booked under Indian Penal Code Section 376 (rape) as well as the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012, the police said, adding that further proceedings are underway. Asked if there is a provision of counselling the victims to deal with the trauma, Shukla said while there are no legal provisions for organised counselling, even in cases involving POSCO Act, the minor was given counselling by the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-man-arrested-for-raping-minor-daughter/story-01GAHpHvKdVdR24YzKALGO.html
29-07-2020||City||Antigen kits help Ghaziabad to increase virus testing by five times||A month after Ghaziabad began deploying antigen testing kits, the district has increased testing by almost five times and reduced the positivity rate. Starting June 26, the district began using the kits at hot spots and containment zones and in time took it to other areas of the city, targeting high risk groups. Of all testing methods, 57.5% of samples were tested for antigens till July 28.According to the health department data till July 28, the district took 94208 samples for testing, out of which 92716 tested and reported --- 53,320 (57.5) were under antigen testing, 37,662 (40.6%) reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests and 1734 (1.9%) TrueNat tests. Prior to deploying antigen testing kits, the district relied only on RT-PCR tests. At the time, its positivity rate was about 6.94% out of the 16,810 samples tested. On July 28, this number read 5.07%. Antigen tests are inherently unreliable with very poor sensitivity, which means its ability to detect true positives is low and could result in many negative tests turning positive under an RT-PCR test. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) requires those testing negative and showing symptoms later to go for an RT-PCR test for confirmation.Despite this, its share is high because of two advantages: point of care testing and no need of taking it to a laboratory, and that it gives a result within 30 minutes, as compared to the two days it would take an RT-PCR test.“With more rapid kits now available we are testing more through it to find positive patients. Now, we have received a target of conducting 2000 rapid antigen tests and about 350 though RT-PCR per day,” said an officer from the health department who wished not to be named. According to the official records, positivity through the rapid kits is about 1.41% with 53320 tests resulting in 1316 positive cases till July 28. On the other hand, the positivity through RT-PCR is about 3.65% with 3392 positive cases resulting out of 39396 RT-PCR tests conducted since March. The experts said that positivity difference between the two tests is acceptable considering the advantages that antigen testing gives.“The RT-PCR is time consuming and we require trained staff. The antigen test’s positive result is true positive,” said Dr Ashutosh Rawat, microbiologist from Columbia Asia Hospital, Ghaziabad. “Sample collection techniques also affect the results. If the sample is not picked up properly it may turn negative in both the type of tests. Further, the asymptomatic patients who do not turn positive with rapid kits are not at risk. So we have to accept the rapid test with genuine difference in comparison to RT-PCR test. My opinion is that a difference of 1% to 1.5% between the two type of tests then results are acceptable.” In Ghaziabad, of the total samples tested using antigen tests, 18,293 tested negative and 16,279 were tested again under RT-PCR method, out of which 920 returned positive -- a positivity rate of 5.65%. The district administration officials on the other hand said that they have planned to conduct about 3000-3500 tests per day. “This will be achieved with majority of testing through rapid kits now available with us. The idea is to trace more positive patients and filter them out from the local population. So, this will help us in early detection and in faster treatment of such patients. The RT-PCR testing will also go on. Our RT-PCR testing will also get boost once our new laboratory (at MMG Hospital) which is already sanctioned by the government comes up,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/antigen-kits-help-ghaziabad-to-increase-virus-testing-by-five-times/story-lZDlyUMxkwd1k98cFFaPXN.html
29-07-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Norms released for biomedical waste collection patients in home isolation||As more and more Covid-19 patients opt for home isolation in Ghaziabad, the health department, along with the municipal corporation, has chalked out a plan for storage, collection and disposal of biomedical waste collected from these patients’ homes. According to official records, the administration till Wednesday afternoon granted permission for home isolation to 99 Covid-19 positive patients, while the screening process is on for 11 more patients. Since July 21, the control room teams have dialled 1,137 different patients for home isolation, while 396 persons, living in vicinities of the patients , were designated as ‘friendly watchers’ to update teams about their neighbours and who may also get in touch with the control room in case of any issues.“The municipal corporation will be providing a yellow-coloured bag to each patient who is in home isolation. The patient is required to dispose of their masks, gloves, head cap, tissues, used syringes or medicines, if any, in the bag. A special van from the corporation will visit the home of each patient and collect the yellow bag every Sunday. The staff of the vans will be provided addresses of each patient,” said Dr Mithlesh Kumar, the civic body’s city health officer, adding that each of the five zones in the city has been designated two vans.Meanwhile, biomedical waste of the family members of the patient will be collected by the usual solid waste collection vehicles of the corporation, albeit with some rules. “The family members of the patients are required to cut up the gloves, masks, head cap, etc into two parts and store them in a paper bag for 72 hours. After this, they can dispose of it off by handing over the bag to the normal solid waste collection vehicles which come daily in localities.”Utsav Sharma, regional officer from UP pollution control board said, “The process for disposal of biomedical waste is in accordance with the guidelines. The corporation has tied up with a biomedical waste collection agency which will collect the waste and dispose of it off in a scientific manner. The patient as well as their family members will have to abide by the health protocols.” The state government had allowed home isolation on July 20. Since July 21, there have been 810 new positive cases in the district out of which 99 have been permitted home isolation once they fulfilled conditions. The rate of patients in home isolation has been about 12.22% from July 21 to July 28. “The rate is low at present as there is delay in uploading patient’s data over the portal. If we analyse the data for July 28, the portal showed 83 patients. Out of these, 20 were found to be admitted to hospitals and 11 were discharged. Of the 83 patients, home isolation was allowed for 18 these while nine were those whose mobile phones were not reachable or found switched off,” said an officer from the health department who wished not to be named.“So, there has been some delay in uploading data at the end of the hospitals (private and government) and we are trying to fix it at the earliest. Once the issue is settled, the figures of patients in home isolation will also go up,” the official quoted above said. The conditions to be fulfilled for home isolation include an undertaking from the patient, a consulting doctor to declare the patient asymptomatic, round-the-clock availability of a caregiver for the patient, a minimum of two toilets at home, and a separate isolation room. Patients will also have to purchase medical kits equipped with a pulse oximeter, a thermometer, masks and gloves, among others.“We are trying to approach every patient in order to know if he/she wishes to opt for home isolation or not on the basis of laid down norms. There is some delay in uploading data on the portal and it will be expedited. With home isolation in place, there are only seven active patients lodged at Divya Jyoti Hospital, an L1 category facility. So, we are not closing it down but suspending operations for the time being. However, we have 800 L1 beds ready with us which can be made operational within a day if the need arises,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-norms-released-for-biomedical-waste-collection-patients-in-home-isolation/story-jW08zLGlBlFVMRAWUFAbjN.html
29-07-2020||Noida||Man kills wife after tiff, dumps body in field; arrested||Police on Wednesday arrested a man for allegedly beating his wife to death and then allegedly dumping her body in a paddy field in Noida on Monday. The suspect — identified as Uttam Lal, 45, hailing from Bihar’s Purnea district — lived in a rented house in Mangrauli village under Expressway police station. Officials said that the suspect would often consume alcohol and indulge in heated arguments and fights with his wife. On the night of July 27, one such fight turned ugly after Lal reached home drunk and indulged in an argument with his wife. The tiff soon turned ugly with Lal killing his wife in a fit of rage later. “The accused Uttam Lal alias Gulcchawas used to work as daily wager at fields near the village. In the night of July 27, when he reached home drunk, a fight broke out between the couple and in a fit of rage Lal beat up his wife, causing her to sustain severe head injuries to which she succumbed later,” SHO of Expressway police station, Yogesh Malik, said After the killing, he dumped the body of his wife and fled, police said. “He carried his wife’s body to a desolate farmland and dumped it there. He was arrested from the neighbouring Chaprauli village, where he was hiding. The accused was produced in a local court which remanded him in 14 days of judicial custody,” Malik added. An FIR was lodged in the case under Indian Penal Code sections 302 (murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence), the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/man-kills-wife-after-tiff-dumps-body-in-field-arrested/story-CyLzIsi7msKE5aOLvVZxgI.html
29-07-2020||City||Will protect integrity of Punjab, Sukhbir’s threats no deterrent: CM||Chandigarh A day after Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president cautioned Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh against indiscriminate use of Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) by Punjab Police, the CM said he would do everything under the law, as needed, to protect the security and integrity of Punjab and of the nation.“The SAD president’s threats cannot deter me from ensuring the safety of my people. If there are any specific instances of wrongful arrest or registration of case by Punjab Police under UAPA, as Sukhbir claimed, he should send a list of the same, instead of making unnecessary noise,” the CM added. The CM said there was no question of falsely implicating anyone, urging the SAD chief to refrain from playing into the hands of the separatists by trying to incite the state’s youth, especially the Sikhs, against the police force.Amarinder added that the UAPA had been in existence for long and under the SAD-BJP regime, more than 60 cases under UAPA had been registered in Punjab, of which 19 were in 2010 alone and 12 in 2017 and of the 225 individuals arrested in these cases, 120 were acquitted or discharged, indicating that indiscriminate application of UAPA had in fact been done by the Akalis during their tenure.“It is shocking that Sukhbir, who is leading a party that claimed to be the custodians of Sikhism, is in fact protesting against the Punjab Police’s fight against separatist and terrorist activities,” he added. “There are forces bent on destabilising the nation by fomenting trouble and promoting the separatist ideology, such as the Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) and its Khalistani agenda. Sukhbir should know that SFJ has been declared as an unlawful organisation and its chief Gurpatwant Pannu had been designated a terrorist by the Indian government, and, as such, the police force of all states, including Punjab, were duty-bound to take all legal action to fight their attempts to subvert national security,” Amarinder added. At a time when the countries were rejecting the SFJ’s pro-Khalistan agenda, Sukhbir was virtually supporting it, the CM added. AMARINDER REPRODUCING INDIRA’s NARRATIVE: SUKHBIR Chandigarh SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Wednesday described CM Captain Amarinder Singh’s reaction on the issue of the misuse the UAPA as “an archival reproduction of the old Indira Gandhi narrative”.“Every Sikh can recall how Indira Gandhi had used exactly these words to justify the rolling of tanks into the holiest of the holy Sikh shrine Harmander Sahib leading to the destruction of the sacred Shri Akal Takht Sahib... the Congress mind-set that led to the 15-year-long tragedy of Punjab remains the same?,” said Sukhbir.Referring to Amarinder’s references to national security and integrity while defending use of UAPA, Badal said, “The brave and patriotic Sikh masses need no lessons in nationalism or patriotism from opportunistic Sikh Congress leaders. The only contribution of Congress leaders has been to paint every single member of this brave and patriotic community as anti-national. Amarinder has started singing the same tune again, and this is extremely dangerous.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/will-protect-integrity-of-punjab-sukhbir-s-threats-no-deterrent-cm/story-sjJTQous3uKtOy16pn0aOO.html
29-07-2020||Noida||Illegal liquor worth ₹2 crore seized, one arrested||Illegal liquor worth ₹2 crore was confiscated by the excise department from a godown in Noida, officials said on Wednesday. The imported beer was stored illegally without paying taxes or duty at a godown in Kasna. The owner who had the licence to store and sell the foreign liquor, was arrested and an FIR was registered against him. “We had confiscated a total of 1,375 cartons and 33,000 cans of different premium brands of foreign beer worth about ₹2 crore. It was stored illegally at a room near the godown, which was found during a raid on Monday night. The accused had L2 licence under which he can store and sell foreign liquor to anyone in bulk. The liquor was illegal because it was stored without duty and permit papers. We are taking strict action against him and his licence will be suspended,” said district excise officer, RB Singh. According to the officials, the illegal liquor was discovered during an ongoing drive ordered by the district administration. On paper, the accused had shown that he had procured only 240 bottles of foreign liquor in the current year, of which 36 bottles were yet to be sold. However, on inspection, it was discovered that hundreds of cartons of over six major foreign brands of beer were hidden on the roof of the godown and in a room behind it. Singh said the confiscated liquor will not be resold through auction but will be destroyed as per state excise rules. “On each bottle or can of beer, the state earns duty of at least ₹150. The accused has been arrested and an FIR was lodged under relevant sections of the excise act. His licence and security amount of ₹6 lakh will also be forfeited. The foreign liquor is procured through designated custom bonds. We are finding how and from where the accused procured the liquor,” Singh added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/illegal-liquor-worth-2-crore-seized-one-arrested/story-iWpzDmbyLI7Itl4qYSyxQL.html
29-07-2020||City||Plasma bank for Covid-19 patients to start on Thursday||Gurugram: Gurugram’s first plasma bank to help the treatment of critical Covid-19 patients will become operational from Thursday at Rotary blood bank, Sector 10. Health officials said necessary arrangements for Covid-19 antibody testing and extraction of plasma have been made at the blood bank, where the coronavirus patients can procure convalescent plasma units for the therapy. Each plasma unit will cost around Rs 8,500, officials said. Dr Anuj Garg, deputy chief medical officer, who has been designated as the nodal officer for the plasma bank from the health department, said convalescent plasma for Covid-19 patients will be issued on a signed request of the authorised nodal officer of the hospital where the patient is undergoing treatment and the medical superintendent of the district health department. Plasma units can be availed of by patients admitted in both government and private hospitals.“The plasma unit will be given to those who require it only after approval from the hospital and health department. Though the price has been fixed at Rs 8,500 per unit, it will be free for BPL card holders and pregnant women,” Garg said. The bank will be open for blood donation from 9am to 9pm, while plasma will be available 24X7, he said. At least five people are expected to donate their blood for plasma therapy on Thursday. “Covid-19 patients, who are already cured, are being motivated to come forward for donation,” Garg said. The administration has been reaching out to recovered patients. As reported by HT earlier this week, a database of more than 4,000 recovered patients has been made, out of which only 50 have come forward to donate plasma.Gurugram’s Covid-19 tally stands at 8912, out of which 1019 are active cases and 7771 have recovered from the illness. The death toll stands at 122, out of which 84 had co-morbidity.In plasma therapy, blood is taken from a Covid-19 recovered person who has developed antibodies against the SARS-CoV-2 virus. Through centrifugation, the liquid part of the blood called plasma is separated. It contains antibodies, which are transfused in the coronavirus-infected person, boosting the immune system to fight the deadly infection. It is still an experimental therapy approved by the central health ministry. The plasma therapy has previously been used during the SARS and MERS outbreaks (which were also caused by viruses from the same family as the coronavirus Sars-CoV-2 that causes Covid-19). Dr Mahima Kilhor, medical officer at Rotary blood bank, who is also the nodal in-charge of the plasma bank, said, “The blood bank already has one apheresis machine that separates blood components and plasma. After the plasma is extracted, the blood containing red blood cells, white blood cells and platelets is transfused back to the donor’s body. It takes almost 90 minutes to extract the plasma.”But before the extraction, the blood is tested for Covid-19 antibodies through antibody-detection kits. “Over 100 Covid-19 antibody-detection kits have been provided to the bank,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. Doctors said the concentration of antibodies in the blood plasma has to be checked before it is transfused in a patient. In this process, the blood taken from the recovered patients is diluted repeatedly. The highly diluted samples, which turn to be positive, are the ones with high antibody levels“A certain range of antibody has to be there in the plasma; if it is below that range, then the plasma won’t be beneficial,” said Kilhor. Currently, plasma bank facilities are operational at PGIMS, Rohtak and ESI Hospital in Faridabad. A private hospital is also conducting plasma therapy in Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/plasma-bank-for-covid-19-patients-to-start-on-thursday/story-UhYipqCp0t3kRVugfOzvzM.html
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||Parents for staggered reopening of schools for board classes, Punjab govt tells MHRD||Chandigarh Parents of schoolgoing children in Punjab will be comfortable with reopening of schools only when the Covid-19 situation improves but they are not averse to starting board classes in a staggered manner, according to feedback received by the state government. The state government gathered this feedback from the parents of schoolchildren, school heads and academic experts after the Union ministry of human resource development (MHRD) on July 17 asked all states and union territories to get the opinions regarding reopening dates of schools. The parents were asked by the state’s school education department about the likely period between August and October when they and their kids will be comfortable with reopening of schools and their expectations from schools as and when the classes resume. The school education department, on the basis of feedback received from parents, has informed the central ministry that the parents will be comfortable with reopening of the schools only when the situation improves and they are sure that there is no risk to the health of students. “However, there is feedback that at least the board classes can be started with 50% strength of students. Students may be called to the schools on alternate days or once in three days so that there is least loss of studies during this period,” secretary, school education, wrote to MHRD on Tuesday without specifying any timeframe. The official further said that this will enable the teachers to check the assignments of students and also give them homework. On expectations from schools whenever they open, it has informed the ministry that the parents expect that all safety measures will be ensured so that there is no risk to the health of their wards due to Covid-19. The feedback on physical classes has been received even as Covid-19 cases have seen a spike this month, going up from 5,568 on July 1 to 14,946 on July 29. The school education department had sent the communication received from the MHRD to schools with a request to get feedback from parents. Also, discussions were held with the district education officers and school principals through videoconferencing. The Punjab government had closed all schools, including government and private, on March 13 and later cancelled the board examinations as a precautionary measure to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The final decision on reopening of schools will be taken by MHRD in consultation with the Union ministry of home affairs and ministry of health and family welfare.MODALITIES FOR FREE PHONE DISTRIBUTION STILL NOT FINAL A day after chief minister Amarinder Singh announced to kick off the distribution of 50,000 free smartphones among girl students of classes 11 and 12, the Punjab government is still in the process of finalising the modalities for their identification. The government schools have approximately 1.88-lakh girl students in classes 11 and 12 whereas the state authorities had last year shortlisted ‘Lava’ after open bidding and placed an order for 1.60 lakh smartphones. “As priority is to be given to girl students who do not have phones, to facilitate online education, a survey will have to be carried out to identify them. The modalities are being finalised,” said two officials in the know of the matter. The department also plans to give priority to girl students of schools facing shortage of teachers. Another official said the first consignment of 50,000 smartphones was ready with the company but not handed over so far. “The delivery schedule will be decided only after the identification of beneficiaries,” he said. The sports and youth affairs department had notified the ‘Capt Smart Connect Scheme’ in December 2019, listing classes 11 and 12 girl students of government schools and students in final year of undergraduate courses in government ITIs and colleges in the first phase. The Congress had, in its manifesto for the 2017 state polls, promised 30 lakh smartphones with one-year of free data and calling to state’s youth, but has set several deadlines and missed them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/parents-for-staggered-reopening-of-schools-for-board-classes-punjab-govt-tells-mhrd/story-nk8nm0ZLEp5Nurf0YpuezO.html
29-07-2020||City||Kejriwal directs officials to scale up RT-PCR tests for Covid-19||New Delhi: Two days after being pulled up by the Delhi high court for making rapid antigen tests the primary form of testing in the national capital, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday directed officials to ramp up RT-PCR tests by adhering to guidelines laid down by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR).The court had on Monday directed the Delhi government to “strictly” follow the Covid-19 testing guidelines issued by the apex health body, instead of interpreting the rules “on its own”. The court had also asked the Delhi government why it had conducted fewer than 6,000 RT-PCR tests a day between July 15 and July 23, despite having 54 laboratories that can conduct up to 11,000 tests per day.Following this, Kejriwal on Wednesday held a review meeting, during which he directed all districts to ramp up the RT-PCR tests by testing all symptomatic persons whose rapid antigen samples returned negative.Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests are considered the gold standard to check for Covid-19.“Existing guidelines say that if any patient’s antigen test is negative but has symptoms, RT-PCR test must be done on him. I directed the officers today to ensure strict compliance of these guidelines,” Kejriwal tweeted after the meeting.In Monday’s order, the court also cited the results of the recent serological survey, which showed that a majority of the 22.86% people were exposed to the infectious disease without even realising it, as they were probably asymptomatic. It also sought to know from the Delhi government why it preferred the rapid antigen method as the primary test, despite a high rate of false negatives.On July 16, HT had first reported that between June 18 and July 15, 1,365 (0.5%) of the 262,075 persons who tested negative in the rapid antigen tests were further administered the RT-PCR confirmatory tests. At the time, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia had said those cases were the only ones that were found to be symptomatic by the medical officers. In an interview to HT on July 18, Kejriwal had said, “We do not have the capacity to double check those many people with an RT-PCR test. If you see today’s data – 14,000 were antigen tests and 7,000 were RT-PCR tests. We are already using our RT-PCR testing infrastructure to its full capacity. It is not in terms of kits and machines, capacity is also seen in terms of manpower. Even antigen tests are being conducted to its full capacity.”According to Wednesday’s health bulletin, Delhi has conducted a total of 994,219 tests. On the day, 12,318 were rapid antigen tests, and 5,074 were RT-PCR, CBNAAT, TrueNAT tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kejriwal-directs-officials-to-scale-up-rt-pcr-tests-for-covid-19/story-Qn6rygsl9KP5lQhdJHtyXN.html
29-07-2020||City||Kejriwal interacts with students online to promote entrepreneurship||New Delhi: Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday for the first time joined government school students in an online interaction aimed at promoting entrepreneurship.Kejriwal was joined by deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia and Arjun Malhotra, who co-founded the HCL group. The CM told students how the 71-year-old entrepreneur and industrialist is a qualified engineer from IIT-Kharagpur, the institute from which Kejriwal had himself graduated in 1989.While the entrepreneurship interaction programme has been on since 2018, this was Kejriwal’s first experience, he said.“We believe the people of our country are very intelligent. We are full of ideas and have a brilliant entrepreneurship mindset. A rickshaw puller is an entrepreneur, so is a betel leaf seller. Every citizen of this country knows how to run a business. But there is some problem with our education system. The moment we graduate from our school, we start looking out for jobs. We want to change this mindset. We want that while being in school, our students should start thinking in a direction where they do not have to find a job after leaving school, rather they should start thinking about their business propositions,” Kejriwal told students during the interaction that was live-streamed on the party’s social media handles.Sisodia said, “After the Corona crisis subsides, a variety of new opportunities will arise in the field of entrepreneurship. Three years ago, CM Sir (referring to Kejriwal) and I interacted with a few IIT students. Most of them praised our work done in the field of science and thanked us for their improved science laboratories. But at the same time, they requested us to emphasise more on English. Learning any language is a skill, but our mother tongue Hindi is our pride. We should not feel shy to speak in our mother tongue.”Interacting with students of classes 9-12, Malhotra said, “Behind any successful person is his value system. It is his value system that takes that person to different levels. I wanted to go to NASA and become a researcher after IIT. But since I got a job in the Delhi Cloth Mills, I did not go. Later, we left our job to make computer microprocessors and formed our company.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kejriwal-interacts-with-students-online-to-promote-entrepreneurship/story-0TjrZJPX64vNcFsrZBdm7I.html
29-07-2020||City||Chandigarh, tricity see steepest single-day spike of Covid-19 cases||With 117 fresh Covid-19 cases, the tricity recorded its highest single-day spike on Wednesday. With 44 infections being reported from Chandigarh, it was also the highest spike witnessed in the Union Territory to date.However, at 46, the maximum number of cases on Wednesday surfaced in Panchkula district; Mohali district reported 27. The previous highest single-day spike in the tricity was 102, recorded on July 21. In Chandigarh, the tally has now climbed to 978, of which 352 cases are still active. As many as 611 people have been cured so far, of whom 12 were discharged on Wednesday. Fourteen have also succumbed to the infection.The fresh cases were reported from across the city, including Sectors 7, 16, 19, 20, 22, 23, 26, 32, 38, 40, 41, 42, 44, 45, 46, 47, 49 and 55 besides Dhanas, Raipur Khurd, Ram Darbar and Khuda Jassu. Most of them are family members of infected persons, including six from Khuda Lahora. Eight of those who tested positive are above the age of 65.P’kula infections near 500The total reached 498 in Panchkula district, with 46 fresh infections. As many as 255 cases remain active, with 241 being cured and two dying so far.Of the new patients five are over the age of 65 while eight are minors, including a nine-month-old boy from Charnia village. A CRPF personnel has also tested positive.At 10, the maximum cases are from Nawananagar, followed by seven from Taprian and six from Marranwala. The remaining cases are spread across Sectors 2, 8, 12, 19 and 21 besides Mansa Devi Complex, Surajpur, Chandimandir and Kalka. Cop, PSEB officials test positiveA 45-year-old constable posted at the Dera Bassi police station besides two staffers of the Punjab School Education Board are among 27 fresh cases reported in Mohali district. The count has reached 798, of which 303 are active. Also, 11 people were discharged, taking the number of those cured to 481. An assistant secretary and female superintendent of the PSEB have tested positive a day after the controller of examination was found infected. “Some of the offices of the PSEB have been sealed and samples of most of its employees have been taken,” said Dr Manjit Singh, civil surgeon, Mohali, adding that public dealing has been stopped at the Dera Bassi police station too. Among the fresh cases, 16 are from Dera Bassi subdivision, including a three-year-old girl. The remaining are spread across Mohali and Kharar subdivisions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-tricity-see-steepest-single-day-spike-of-covid-19-cases/story-Zru3mtpC6Fv5idNvV4FXcP.html
29-07-2020||Delhi||Admin pushing for online exams, giving rise to confusion: JNU students||While officials of the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) Wednesday said they would allow students to pick their preferred mode of exam -- online or offline -- to complete the semester that has already stretched over by three months due to the Covid-19 pandemic, several students alleged that the administration was trying to “push” for online exams. Students said there was a lot of confusion with some schools and centres opting for the online mode while others are yet to take a call on it. In April, only five of the 13 schools in JNU and one of the five special centres had decided to conduct examinations online. However, with educational institutions across the country continuing to remain shut owing to the pandemic, two of the largest schools in JNU -- the School of Social Sciences and School of International Studies -- also decided to switch to the online mode of exams. According to the JNU administration, around five schools, including School of Computer and System Sciences, School of Environmental Sciences, School of Life Sciences and School of Management and Entrepreneurship, have already completed their exams online. However, JNU students’ union (JNUSU) members said many students from these schools and centres have not been able to take the exams. JNUSU vice-president Saket Moon said, “The administration should issue a notification clarifying that the exams will be held again for those who were unable to appear for the online tests. There is so much confusion even within schools now -- some are conducting online exams while some are not,” he said.Manisha, 23, a final-year MA student at the School of International Studies (SIS), said she won’t be able to take online exams as she doesn’t have a device or an internet connection. “With the school focussing on online exams, students like me will be left behind. They should promote all students on the basis of internal exam results. Why did the school earlier announce that it will conduct exams in the pen-and-paper mode? There is so much confusion at our school about the mode of exam,” she said. Aswini Mohapatra, dean of SIS, said, “The decision to hold exams in the pen-and-paper mode was taken in April --when we thought that the Covid-19 situation might improve by July. Now, we have given students the option to choose their mode of exam. They can take exams online or wait for the university to reopen to take them offline,” he said.A final-year MA student at the Centre for Media Studies, who wished not to be named, said he will also not be able to take exams online. “I do not know what will happen if I miss the exams. I might lose a year. The university should conduct exams for everyone together,” he said.JNU registrar Pramod Kumar said, “Students need not worry. The university will give another chance to those who are unable to take online exams. It’s important to conduct online exams to complete the semester for those who immediately need degrees for higher education or jobs.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/admin-pushing-for-online-exams-giving-rise-to-confusion-jnu-students/story-ickvJ1zGq4fq7s9qjdC08J.html
29-07-2020||City||HC asks Delhi govt to release ₹8 Cr for North MCD to pay resident docs||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Wednesday asked the Delhi government to release funds to the North Delhi Municipal Corporation for the payments of stipend or emoluments to resident doctors in the six hospitals run by the civic body.A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Prateek Jalan asked the Delhi government to release within 15 days ₹8 crore to pay salaries for June, as it had done earlier last month on the court’s orders, to the North corporation without waiting for the completion of paperwork, so that resident doctors can be paid.The bench made it clear that the amount being released was meant solely for paying stipends or emoluments of resident doctors in the body’s six hospitals. It also directed the corporation to complete all paperwork in relation to the Delhi government’s fund disbursal.The Delhi government did not respond to requests for comment.The additional standing counsel of the Delhi government, Satyakam, told the court that the corporation has not given the utilisation certificates for the funds that had been released earlier.However, the court made it clear it was not going into the other issues between the Delhi government and the corporation with regard to payment of salaries of other employees of north Delhi corporation and the funds it claims it is yet to receive under various heads.The court was hearing a plea it had initiated itself based on news reports that doctors of Kasturba Hospital have threatened to resign because they have not been paid salaries since March this year.On Wednesday, advocate Akhil Mittal, the standing counsel of north Delhi corporation, told the court that it has paid resident doctors’ salaries till May. In an affidavit, he told the court that the salary up to April of all of its regular doctors has also been paid.The court also directed the corporation to place before the bench the utilisation certificates indicating that the amount of ₹8 crore released by the Delhi government earlier, on court orders, were used to pay the resident doctors,The matter will now be heard on August 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hc-asks-delhi-govt-to-release-8-cr-for-north-mcd-to-pay-resident-docs/story-Osz6mPKuggaMTrqzcab1GL.html
29-07-2020||City||AAP volunteers protest outside BJP office against SDMC’s professional tax move||New Delhi: Over 100 Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) volunteers on Wednesday joined a protest outside the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) office against the South Delhi Municipal Corporation’s (SDMC) decision to levy a professional tax on self-employed persons, hike property transfer taxes, and nearly double taxes on rented commercial properties.All three municipal corporations in Delhi are ruled by the BJP. The SDMC House on Monday had passed a proposal to levy a professional tax on self-employed persons and professionals working in companies — a first in Delhi — and doubled the tax on rented commercial properties. The civic body also approved a 1% hike in tax on transfer of property, with an aim to ramp up revenue collection, which was affected by the national lockdown to contain spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).“The volunteers and leaders of AAP will continue opposing this decision at every level. AAP will fight against this decision inside the SDMC House and also on the streets. AAP has promised to the people of Delhi that it will force the BJP to withdraw this decision,” said Durgesh Pathak, member of the political affairs committee and in charge of MCD affairs of the AAP.Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta on Wednesday said, “I have urged the SDMC mayor to roll back the professional tax. We will not let the corporations take the professional tax. North corporation has already deferred the move. We did not approve increase in the electricity tax. The corporations are in bad financial shape because the state government is not giving the corporation their due funds. The government should help the civic bodies in these testing times and should not do politics on the matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aap-volunteers-protest-outside-bjp-office-against-sdmc-s-professional-tax-move/story-At570GdYpstVOqO0lWYuVJ.html
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chaos at Nehru Rose Garden Covid-Care Centre, Ludhiana doctors flag issue||Government guidelines are adding to harassment of Covid-19 patients in Ludhiana. Instead of employing an effective mechanism to isolate and treat infected patients, the health department has asked them to report to the Covid-Care Centre (CCC) at Government Meritorious School near Nehru Rose Garden, say patients. The move is resulting in widespread chaos and has left patients and their caregivers fuming. It has also increased the risk of the virus spreading. The health department’s staff doctors at care centre have also complained about the chaos and have asked authorities to take measures to reduce the number of people visiting the area. Caregivers alleged that patients, most of whom were asymptomatic or with mild symptoms, were asked to stand in queue for medical check-up and to procure a certificate for home isolation. The ordeal does not end there as the caregivers and are then asked to wait for approval, which is signed by the agriculture development officer (ADO). Sometimes the approval takes over a day to come through. In such as case, the patient is kept at the Centre, patients’ relatives alleged. ‘CUMBERSOME PROCESS’A patient’s friend, who did not wish to be named, said, “My friend gave his samples for testing on Wednesday and the reports arrived on Friday. The reports were sent over WhatsApp, following which my friend started receiving calls to get registered at care centre at 5pm.” “The centre was crowded but he managed to get himself tested. However, he was told that till the time, the health department does not receive an approval from the ADO. He was asked to stay at the isolation ward of the hospital. My friend got scared and left in his car. The next day I went to the centre and was shocked to see the crowd. Both patients and caregivers were standing in the same queue and asymptotic patients were roaming in the hostel as if they were strolling in a park,” he said. A man whose father tested positive for Covid-19 said the cumbersome process of applying for home isolation was leading to the spread of infection. “My father tested positive on July 21. Since he is over 60 years old and had fever, our family decided to keep him under home isolation. However, at the centre, patients and caregivers were jostling to get themselves registered. Social distancing norms were not followed. Many old patients suffering from fever and weakness were helplessly waiting for their turn. We had to seek a local politicians help,” he said. On the other hand, Dr Govind Ram, senior medical officer (SMO) at the COVID-care centre said they had flagged the issue. “We are working under tremendous pressure. As per the protocol, positive patients are asked to report at the isolation ward for a medical check-up and care givers are told to stand separately. But caregivers also stand in the queue along with Covid-19 patients. This increases the risk of the virus spreading,” the SMO said. “We keep telling patients to maintain distance but our requests fall on deaf ears. We have brought the matter to the notice of authorities,” said Ram. PATIENTS ARRIVE IN AUTOSWhen asked why patient arrive in auto rickshaws and other modes of transport, the SMO said the rapid response ambulance can ferry one patient and till the time the formalities are not completed the ambulance cannot leave. “So in certain cases, patients were seen visiting the centre in public transport vehicles.” Civil surgeon (CS) Dr Rajesh Bagga said orders in this regards had already been issued. “The problem occurs while jotting down the online details of patients. We have observed that increasing the number of computers will not solve the purpose. So it has been decided to call the patient in different time slots to end the chaos at the centre,” Bagga said. THE PROTOCOL As per the protocol, a patient has to report for check- up at a Covid Care Centre with a care giver after testing positive. The patient can apply for home isolation or admission to a government or private facility. The process of home isolation is initiated after the patient is found asymptomatic during the medical check-up. For home admission, the patient has to fill a form wherein the patient mentions the name of a caregiver and the address of the house where he wishes to remain isolated. Thereafter, the form is forwarded to the agriculture development officer (ADO) concerned, who visits the location and following his/her approval the patient is allowed to stay at home. Besides the health department initiates the prophylactic treatment of rest of the family members and caregivers who have tested negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chaos-at-nehru-rose-garden-covid-care-centre-ludhiana-doctors-flag-issue/story-ZjvLwq6GkyyLCFuspKlCsO.html
29-07-2020||City||Sharjeel Imam summoned in sedition case||New Delhi: A Delhi court on Wednesday summoned Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student Sharjeel Imam on September 1 in a sedition case, while taking cognisance of the offences under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) after the police had charge sheeted him for allegedly making instigating speeches at Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) in January this year.Additional sessions judge Dharmendra Rana, however, did not take cognisance of the other sections, including sedition (124A) and 153 A (punishment for wanton vilification or attack upon religion, etc), after the investigating agency told the court that sanction to prosecute Imam was still awaited.Under the Code of Criminal Procedure, investigating agencies have to take the state government’s approval or sanction while filing charge sheets in sedition cases.On Wednesday, additional public prosecutor Irfan Ahmed told the court that while sanction for prosecution under UAPA had been granted, a request has been made to the competent authority for sanction in the sedition case.Noting this, the court said, “In view of the same, I take cognisance for commission of offence under section 13 of UAPA in the present matter. However, the issue of taking cognisance for the commission of offence under section 124A (sedition), 153A (punishment for sedition), 153B (Assertion prejudicial to national integration) and 505 (circulation of certain statement, rumours, etc) of the Indian Penal Code, is deferred for the time being for the want of requisite sanction,” the judge said in his order .The judge asked Imam to be produced from a Guwahati jail, where he is currently lodged in another case, on September 1.The court said a long date has been being given in the matter as the normal functioning of the courts is suspended, while noting that “even the accused is Covid-19 positive”. It said in case Imam could not be physically produced on the next date of hearing, he would be produced through video-conferencing. “We are yet to see the copy of the charge sheet. We would be able to comment only once we have gone through the document, “ Imam’s lawyer said, reacting to Wednesday’s development. The police’s crime branch had filed the charge sheet in the Patiala House Courts on Saturday against Imam in a case registered against him on January 25. The police said Imam had given a seditious speech at AMU in January.“In the garb of protesting against the Citizenship Amendment Act, 2019 (CAA), he (Imam) exhorted people of a particular community to block the highways leading to major cities and resort to ‘chakka jaam’, thereby disrupting normal life. Also, in the name of opposing CAA, he openly threatened to cut off Assam and other Northeastern states from the rest of the country,” police had said.In this case, Imam has been charged with delivering an ‘inflammatory and seditious’ speech. The officer said in this same case, police later added sections of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act against Imam. Imam was arrested by Delhi police from Bihar’s Jehanabad on January 28. Earlier on April 18, police had filed the first charge sheet against Imam in connection with the riots outside Jamia Millia Islamia, during which protesters had clashed with police. In the first charge sheet, police had charged Imam with allegedly instigating riots at the campus during a protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act and the National Register of Citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sharjeel-imam-summoned-in-sedition-case/story-cN67CQ5g3QK82XasW9aGoJ.html
29-07-2020||City||HC tells Delhi govt, civic bodies, DDA to submit action taken report against unsafe buildings||New Delhi: The Delhi High Court on Wednesday directed the Delhi government and the civic bodies among various agencies to submit what action has been taken against the owners of buildings that require seismic structure stability after a plea was filed alleging the lack of preparedness in case an earthquake hits the city.A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and justice Prateek Jalan also sought to know from the municipal bodies and the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) as to what steps they have taken after identifying and issuing notices to the high-risk buildings in need of seismic stability.The court also sought to know from the Delhi government whether any expert committee has been set up, as proposed by a notification of April last year, to look into seismic stability of the buildings in the city.The court’s order came on a plea by Arpit Bhargava, a lawyer, seeking setting up of a monitoring committee to ensure timely implementation of the action plan for strengthening buildings in Delhi.He said that between April 12 and July 3, 14 earthquakes struck the Delhi-National Capital Region.He also said that since the Centre has not filed any response or affidavit, there is no clarity whether buildings like Vigyan Bhawan, Shastri Bhawan and others where high ranking officials work are seismically compliant or not.The Delhi government on Wednesday launched an awareness programme aimed at ensuring residences, offices, schools, and other private and public spaces prepared to deal with earthquakes.“Considering the frequency of earthquakes in Delhi since April this year, the Delhi government has launched an awareness campaign on steps to be taken by people during and after an earthquake. The campaign aims at making homes, offices, schools, and other commercial and residential spaces fully prepared and efficiently deal with earthquakes… The campaign will also help people be well-prepared and take measures to minimise the damage and effects of the earthquakes,” said a statement issued by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s office on Wednesday.Advocate Arjun Pant, representing DDA, told the court that letters have been issued to the owner of 19 high-rise buildings (height 15 metres or above), which were sanctioned before March 21, 2001, to initiate the process of structural safety audit and submit the first action taken report in 30 days.In separate affidavits, the civic bodies have listed the steps taken pursuant to the last order. “Visual survey is also being conducted and for buildings identified as structurally vulnerable, letters are being issued to the owner(s)/occupier(s) of all high rise buildings which were sanctioned after March 3, 2001, to initiate the process of structural safety audit and submit the first action taken report in 30 days,” the North body said in the affidavit. Other civic bodies also filed similar affidavits that between the three of them they have employed 144 structural engineers to audit the stability of buildings under their jurisdiction.The application was filed in Bhargava’s main petition filed in 2015 claiming that the seismic stability of buildings in Delhi was poor and in case of a major earthquake there could be large numbers of casualties.The petition is still pending before the high court which from time to time has directed the Delhi government and civic authorities to develop an action plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hc-tells-delhi-govt-civic-bodies-dda-to-submit-action-taken-report-against-unsafe-buildings/story-e0zQz63u4UuydnRefu47dM.html
29-07-2020||City||Delhi govt launches awareness campaign to deal with earthquakes||New Delhi: The Delhi government on Wednesday launched an awareness programme aimed at ensuring residences, offices, schools, and other private and public spaces prepared to deal with earthquakes.“Considering the frequency of earthquakes in Delhi since April this year, the Delhi government has launched an awareness campaign on steps to be taken by people during and after an earthquake. The campaign aims at making homes, offices, schools, and other commercial and residential spaces fully prepared and efficiently deal with earthquakes… The campaign will also help people be well-prepared and take measures to minimise the damage and effects of the earthquakes,” said a statement issued by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s office on Wednesday.Kejriwal said, “The last few weeks have taught us the importance of awareness, preparation, and timely action. That is why your government [referring to the Aam Aadmi Party government in Delhi] is announcing a new campaign to prepare the people of Delhi for the unlikely event of an earthquake. Since April 2020, 18 very mild tremors have taken place in and around Delhi. Only two of these have registered above 4, or mild intensity, on the Richter Scale.”“However, as your chief minister, it is my firm belief that Delhi must always be prepared and aware of any crisis. My policy is simple: prepare today to save lives tomorrow. We have compiled useful information that will prepare homes, schools, and workplaces in Delhi, to react to an earthquake emergency with calm and efficiency. Together let us build a Delhi that is prepared to face any crisis,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-launches-awareness-campaign-to-deal-with-earthquakes/story-sd2DkwkhV6xQVeGYZjO0ZN.html
29-07-2020||City||Convicted serial killer who jumped parole found to be living in Delhi||New Delhi: A 62-year-old convicted serial killer who had jumped parole after being released for 20 days from a jail in Jaipur was found to have remarried and living in west Delhi’s Baprola village, Delhi Police said on Wednesday after arresting the man. Devender Sharma, a doctor, had allegedly murdered about 50 taxi and truck drivers in the 1990s and early 2000s but was convicted in about a dozen kidnapping-cum-murder cases, Rakesh Paweriya, deputy commissioner of police (crime branch), said.Sharma was serving a life sentence in the Jaipur Central Jail for the last 16 years when he decided to jump a 20-day parole in January this year. The officer said Sharma had studied medicine in Bihar and had run a clinic in Jaipur for 11 years, even as he slowly entered the world of crime, including running a kidney racket, operating a fake gas agency, and then going on to murder a host of drivers and dumping their bodies in a canal infested with crocodiles in Uttar Pradesh. “His criminal career began in 1994 when he lost about Rs11 lakh after investing in a fake gas agency. To recover his losses, Sharma too began a fake gas agency with some partners. They would murder drivers of trucks carrying gas cylinders. The gas cylinders would be unloaded in his agency and sold to customers,” the DCP said. The alleged fraud was busted in 1996 and Sharma was arrested. After his release on bail, he allegedly went on to start another fake gas agency and then got involved in a kidney racket. “The kidney racket was operating out of Jaipur, Gurgaon and Ballabhagarh. He has told us he had arranged 125 illegal kidney transplants and received Rs5-7 lakh in each case. He was finally arrested in 2004 when the infamous Gurgaon kidney racket was exposed, a case that saw many doctors get arrested as well,” Paweriya said. Alongside, Sharma was also allegedly bumping off taxi drivers and selling their vehicles in the grey market, the DCP said. “He would hire a taxi from Jaipur to Aligarh, kill the driver in between and dump his body in a canal in UP’s Kasganj. The canal was infested with crocodiles and the retrieval of the bodies was difficult,” the DCP said. The officer said Sharma was allegedly involved in about 50 such killings but was booked in fewer cases and convicted in half-a-dozen of them. These murder cases were registered in Delhi, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan, the officer said. “When he got parole, he decided never to return to jail. He first lived in Aligarh before moving to Uttam Nagar in West Delhi. It was during this time that he befriended a widowed woman and married her,” the officer said. Sharma’s first wife and children had deserted him after getting to know about his alleged murders, the officer said. In Delhi, Sharma had taken to property dealings and told the police that he was mediating the sale of a building in Connaught Place. The police are yet to ascertain that. The narcotics cell of Delhi Police’s crime branch arrested Sharma from his rented house in Baprola village on Monday after receiving a tip-off about his location.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/convicted-serial-killer-who-jumped-parole-found-to-be-living-in-delhi/story-aCl5PtqzbIb2PgBD2WaaeJ.html
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||Online classes: Panjab University students to sign undertaking saying they will not record lectures||Panjab University (PU) has asked students to sign an undertaking of adherence saying they will not record a lecture without express permission of the teacher concerned as per the guidelines approved by the varsity for online teaching. Students studying in affiliated colleges will also have to sign the undertaking.Online teaching for ongoing batches is scheduled to start from August 3 . The first semester of all undergraduate and postgraduate courses are scheduled to start from September 1, 2020.As per the guidelines, students cannot record the proceedings of online lectures hosted by a teacher and not keep any content without the permission of a teacher. The guidelines were recommended by the coordination committee of the university that is headed by professor Navdeep Goyal.Goyal said, “The purpose of seeking an undertaking of adherence is to avoid any misuse of the proceedings during online classes.”Teachers have been directed to conduct online classes from their respective departments following guidelines of the ministry of home affairs. There will be four hours of teaching per day, comprising five 45-minute to one-hour lectures. For online classes, the section strength will be 80 students at most in large departments. The dean of faculty is authorised to take a decision on the strength of students in a section.PU National Students Union of India (NSUI) president Nikhil Narmeta said, “If they are seeking an undertaking from students, they should ensure teachers take classes properly as opposed to merely sharing links and presentations.”Nodal officer to be designatedA nodal officer will be designated in each teaching department and affiliated college to address grievances of students regarding online teaching. The University has decided to provide funds from its ‘development fund’ for purchase and installation of minor equipment to support online teaching. Heads of departments have been directed to explore a contingency grant for purchase of these equipments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/online-classes-panjab-university-students-to-sign-undertaking-saying-they-will-not-record-lectures/story-nggWa9WSWJ3lEgx0e9q4rJ.html
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||Capt names newborn tiger cubs in Chhatbir Zoo||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday named three tiger cubs at Mahendra Chaudhary Zoological Park, Chhatbir village, in an online ceremony on the occasion of International Tiger Day. Three Royal Bengal tiger cubs were born to white tigress Diya at the Chhatbir Zoo in November last year. The female cub was named Dilnoor, while the two males will be called Amar and Arjun, said a zoo spokesperson. The name of a female cub, as per the Central Zoo Authority’s guidelines, must begin with first letter of the mother’s name, the spokesperson said. Similarly, the name of a male cub should start with first letter of the father’s name. The cub’s father’s name is Aman. After naming the cubs in a namkaran ceremony, the CM tweeted, “Tiger is the pride of our country & we are home to over 70% of the world’s tiger population. On #International Tiger Day, let us rededicate ourselves to improving their habitat. Sharing pictures of tigress Diya with her cubs Amar, Arjun & Dilnoor in Chhatbir Zoo.” Chhatbir Zoo, one of the largest zoos in India, is spread over 505 acres of forest area in Mohali and is home to around 1,500 species, including five adult tigers and three new born cubs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/capt-names-newborn-tiger-cubs-in-chhatbir-zoo/story-vo43D6RgLvfulMzEg5KCkN.html
29-07-2020||City||73 more test positive for Covid-19 in Himachal, tally rises to 2,403||Seventy-three people tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Wednesday, taking the state’s tally to 2,403, officials said. Active cases in the state stand at 1,042. Of the new cases, 26 people tested positive in Solan district, 13 in Kangra district, nine in Kullu district, eight in Shimla district, seven in Mandi, five in Sirmaur, three in Kinnaur and two in Hamirpur district.In Shimla district, out of eight, five people have tested positive in Mehandli village of Rohru sub-division. They were under home quarantine. Two apple merchants tested positive in Theog and one tested positive in Sanjauli.In Kullu district, seven persons with travel history to West Bengal are among the new cases. They had come to Nirmand on July 24 for construction work of a transmission line. They were all quarantined in a separate building, said Kullu deputy commissioner Richa Verma.In Hamirpur, a 18-year-old girl of Dabrera village in Bhoranj Tehsil with travel history to Delhi has tested positive while a 28-year-old resident of Dalchera village is also infected.In Mandi district, a cleaner at the zonal hospital is among the new cases. He is a resident of Ravinagar Ward, Mandi, and was assigned the work to sanitise the hospital. He has been shifted to Dedicated Covid Care Centre (DCCC) and the area around his house has been declared as a containtment zone, medical superintendent Dr DS Verma said. A taxi driver in Chachyot village has also tested positive in the district. He has a travel history to West Bengal. Special secretary (health) Nipun Jindal said so far, 12 deaths have been reported in the state and 1,332 patients have recovered . He said 15 patients have migrated out of the state. Solan remains the worst hit district with 593 cases, followed by Kangra with 443 cases. Hamirpur has 304 cases, Sirmaur 305, Una 195, Shimla 159, Mandi 133, Chamba 103, Bilaspur 87 , Kinnaur 44, and Kullu has 33 cases. With four Covid-19 cases till date, Lahaul and Spiti is the least affected dist||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/73-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-himachal-tally-rises-to-2-403/story-QfaPbO9Mvb4jGYLzeaqXqM.html
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC for shifting dairy units out of city limits, owners demand infrastructure||Ahead of the meeting of the special task force (STF) constituted to facilitate the shifting of over 500 diary units outside city limits, municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal conducted a meeting with dairy owners of Haibowal and Tajpur road dairy complexes at Zone D office of the MC on Wednesday. The dairy owners have consented to the shifting, but they demanded that the government should establish complexes outside the MC limits with all facilities required to treat dairy waste and cow dung.As per the information, there are over 400 dairy units in Haibowal dairy complex and around 130 in Tajpur road dairy complex. The administration had been contemplating shifting of dairy units as their owners have been dumping dairy waste and cow dung in the Buddha Nullah. But, the project has been hanging fire for a long time. Earlier, the state government had also planned to establish effluent treatment plants (ETP) to deal with the waste generated under a Rs 650-crore project sanctioned by the state government. “The dairy owners have also given their consent to moving out of the city limit, but, they have put forward few demands, which will now be tabled in front of the government. A solution will also be found for scattered dairy units operational in the city,” Sabherwal said.As per MC officials, there are around 200 dairy units which are operational in different parts of the city including residential areas. Dumping of waste in the sewer lines chokes them, becoming an inconvenience for residents. Joginder Malhotra, general secretary of Tajpur road dairy owners association, said, “We were shifted to the dairy complexes for which the agreement was signed in 1973. If the administration wants us to move out, we are ready, but they should establish complexes for us at Tajpur road and Hambran road (outside MC limits). Also, arrangements should be made in those complexes to deal with dairy waste and cow dung. The plots should also be made available at reasonable prices.”Report on encroachments likely to be tabled in STF meetingThe MC, revenue and drainage departments had recently initiated an exercise to identify encroachments alongside the Buddha Nullah so that the nullah’s width can be increased. Officials said the report regarding this might be tabled in front of STF members during the meeting.Due to permanent encroachments alongside the nullah, the width of the nullah has decreased, due to which the nullah also overflows during monsoons. Also, the NGT monitoring committee had earlier directed the administration to work for beautification of the drain by taking up plantation drives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-mc-for-shifting-dairy-units-out-of-city-limits-owners-demand-infrastructure/story-HEv5FW2pGX1KxZgMpl5KuL.html
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh plans to demarcate micro-containment zones to control Covid pandemic||With a sharp increase in Covid-19 cases this month, the UT administration will start demarcating micro-containment zones in the city.The issue was discussed during the review meeting chaired by UT administrator VPS Badnore on Wednesday.UT adviser Manoj Parida said: “The administration will create micro-containment zones after mapping of new cases coming up in different areas. This will enable us to control the infection without causing much hardship to neighbouring areas.”During the meeting, Badnore directed Arun Kumar Gupta, principal secretary, health, to focus on micro-containment areas and enhance contact tracing, particularly focusing on source of infection.Under the policy, even three to four houses together within a sector or colony can be designated as micro-containment zone. Strict perimeter control will be imposed on these areas. As per discussions held on Wednesday, these measures will be deemed to be over if there is no positive case reported for 14 days in the zone. “However, the UT administration is awaiting fresh guidelines of the central government on containment zones. After examining them, the policy will be implemented in Chandigarh,” said a senior UT official, requesting anonymity.Significantly, as per the original central government guidelines on containment zones, perimeter restrictions could be removed after 28 days of the last positive case reported. In Punjab, whose micro-containment zone policy has helped shaped Chandigarh’s plan, containment operations are stopped after 10 days of no positive case.The demarcation and designation of an area as a micro-containment zone will be decided by the affected area committee, comprising deputy commissioner and representatives of the health department and municipal corporation. The committee, in addition to the number of cases being reported from an area, will take into consideration various other factors.MEASURES UNDER NEW POLICYThe administration decided to go in for a change in strategy after more than 500 cases were reported in July. Also, while in the initial stages, the spread of the disease was localised in a few pockets such as Bapu Dham Colony, now the cases are being reported from several areas.The strategy would be to contain the disease within a defined geographical area by early detection, breaking the chain of transmission, and thus, prevent its spread to new areas.“This will include geographical quarantine, social distancing measures, enhanced active surveillance, testing all suspected cases, isolation of cases and home quarantine,” said an official. “It will be ensured that there is no unchecked outward movement of population from micro-containment zone except for maintaining essential services. All vehicular movement and public transport will be restricted.”Under the policy, extensive contact tracing will be ensured in the zone. House-to-house screening will be carried out on daily basis. Random stratified sampling can also be undertaken, said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-plans-to-demarcate-micro-containment-zones-to-control-covid-pandemic/story-tfhOq1ZtIFs0yBU0b86buL.html
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||Petrol pump dealers in Ludhiana up in arms over high fuel prices in Punjab||As part of the statewide protest against higher VAT on fuel in Punjab compared to its bordering regions, and to pay tribute to deceased petrol pump owner - GS Chawal, who ended his life after reportedly going bankrupt due to the disparity, petrol pump dealers in Ludhiana district went on strike on Wednesday. The dealers rued that diesel is cheaper by Rs 6 and petrol by Rs 3.75 in Chandigarh. President of the Punjab Petrol Pump Dealers’ Association, Paramjit Singh Doaba, said that Chawla, 76, stated in his suicide note that he had gone bankrupt due to the disparity in VAT on fuel in Chandigarh and Punjab.“This happened due to the wrong policies of the state government as petrol prices are higher in Punjab than Chandigarh and other border states due to disparity in imposition of VAT,” Doaba said.President of the Ludhiana petrol pump dealers’ association, Ranjit Singh Gandhi, said, “There are around 350 petrol pumps in Ludhiana and all were closed during the protest on Wednesday. We have been demanding parity in VAT for a long time as customers purchase fuel from other states due to lower rates. But, the state government is not paying heed to the problem, due to which Chawla ended his life.”The pumps remained closed till 5pm, leaving residents a harried lot. A residents of Model town area, Chanpreet Singh said, “I had to reach Nakodar for work but I had to cancel due to non-availability of fuel. The petrol pump owners should not harass general public as their protest is against the government.”An executive with a food delivery company, Baljeet Singh, said, “I was not aware of the strike. While my colleagues got their tanks refilled on Tuesday night, my work was hit for around two hours after which I had to borrow my brother’s vehicle to deliver orders. The petrol pump owners should make proper announcements regarding the strike in advance so that the public doesn’t face problems.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/petrol-pump-dealers-in-ludhiana-up-in-arms-over-high-fuel-prices-in-punjab/story-PG2NfdJQVFjqstNlJ0VWHN.html
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||Electricity bill payment machine project in Ludhiana to be discontinued due to few takers||With few opting to pay electricity bills through bill payment machines installed at 20 Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) offices in Ludhiana, authorities have decided not to renew the contract of the private firm maintaining the machines. To inform residents, a notice has been displayed near the machines that they will not be functional after July 31. From August 1, electricity bills can be paid online, or by depositing the amount at cash counter, as it has been observed that these modes of payment are preferred by residents.As many as 23 machines were installed by the department in 2010 at different PSPCL offices in areas including Aggar Nagar, Sundar Nagar, Fountain chowk, Doraha and Payal for convenience of residents so they can avoid standing in queues at cash counters. Bills till Rs 5,000 can be paid in cash and above that, by cheques. Of 23 machines, the contract of three have already ended on May 31. Varinder Pal Singh Saini, chief engineer of Central Zone, PSPCL, said, “The contract with the private firm is valid till July 31, and so far, there is no information that it will be renewed. The residents can pay the bills online and at PSPCL cash counters.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/electricity-bill-payment-machine-project-in-ludhiana-to-be-discontinued-due-to-few-takers/story-1xM4mNlKLuUwSBfTiYf5LK.html
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||Three, including woman arrested for snatching mobile phones in Mohali||Three persons including a woman have been arrested for snatching and 11 mobile phones have been recovered from their possession .The accused have been identified as Jatinder Singh alias Goldy, a resident of Khairpur village in Mohali, Jaspreet Singh alias Soni of Badali village in Ropar and Darshan Kaur of Kurali village, Mohali.According to the preliminary investigation, the accused injected pedestrians with drugs so they lost consciousness and snatched the phones from them. They were active in Kharar, Kurali and Mullanpur areas and sold the stolen phones in the market, police said.On July 25, assistant sub-inspector Bhupinder Singh’s police party nabbed Goldy at the blockade near Radha Soami Satsang Bhawan, Kurali, following a tip-off and two mobiles were recovered from his possession .Later, Soni was arrested from Badali Road, Kurali. Nine mobile phones were recovered from them during their remand.After interrogating Soni, Kaur was also named as an accused in the case and arrested.A case was registered under Sections 379-B (snatching and use of force) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code at Kurali police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-including-woman-arrested-for-snatching-mobile-phones-in-mohali/story-RdRrAK7GCasvcxgGno0OpN.html
29-07-2020||City||Himachal cabinet expansion today||The state capital on Wednesday witnessed hectic political activity as chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, after completing his week-long home quarantine, met governor Bandaru Dattatreya to apprise him about cabinet expansion.The CM, who completed his 30 months in office, will undertake his first cabinet expansion.Three cabinet berths fell vacant after then food and civil supplies minister Kishan Kapoor was elected to the Lok Sabha from Kangra, while power minister Anil Sharma quit after the Congress nominated his son Ashray Sharma from the Mandi parliamentary seat against BJP’s sitting Lok Sabha member Ram Swaroop Sharma and health minister Bipin Singh Parmar was appointed speaker in place of Nahan legislator Rajeev Bindal who was named state unit chief in January.Jai Ram had planned to expand his cabinet after the Dharamshala and Pacchad Lok Sabha by-elections last year, but the exercise was deferred due to bickering in the state BJP. After that, the coronavirus pandemic stalled these plans.Nurpur legislator Rakesh Pathania will be inducted into the state cabinet on Thursday. He began his political career in 1991 and was the BJP Kisan Morcha’s Kangra president before becoming its state secretary and a member of the party’s state executive. He was elected to the assembly as a BJP nominee in 1998 and re-elected as an independent in 2007 before becoming MLA for the third time in December 2017. Pathania belongs to the Rajput community and has been vying for a cabinet berth since 2017. However, the party chose Bipin Singh Parmar, another Rajput leader.Paonta Sahib MLA Sukhram Chaudhary, the leader from other backward classes from Sirmaur, is also going to hold a spot in the cabinet. Chaudhary was a junior engineer in the electricity board before joining politics and was elected to the Vidhan Sabha in 2003, 2007 and 2017. He was parliamentary secretary from 2009 to 2012.The chief minister is also going to offer a cabinet berth to Rajinder Garg, a first-time MLA from Bilaspur. Garg is considered close to BJP national president JP Nadda.Jai Ram had planned the cabinet expansion last week, but it was put off after he went into a week-long self-quarantine after a deputy secretary in CMO tested positive for Covid19.Speculations about the cabinet expansion got credence after the administration had readied three rooms in the Ellerslie block of Himachal secretariat for the new ministers, while Raj Bhawan had changed sitting arrangements at Darbar Hall, which is used during ceremonies. The CM will hold a cabinet meeting on Thursday morning at the secretariat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-cabinet-expansion-today/story-4D6xkn0SaQRKsChtxFsKnN.html
29-07-2020||Pune||32nd Pune Festival cancelled due to Covid-19 pandemic||The 32nd edition of Pune Festival, scheduled to be held on August 21, stands cancelled due to the coronavirus pandemic. Organisers, however, stated that Ganesh festival and immersion process will be performed as per tradition. The Pune Festival is organised by the Pune Festival committee, Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation, Tourism Department of government of India and Pune residents with the purpose of entertaining, inspiring and encouraging artists in music, dance, drama, art vocal, instruments, sports and culture.“We pray to Lord Ganesh to allay this crisis born because of the coronavirus and hope to celebrate Pune Festival with much more fervour and enthusiasm next year,” said patron of the Pune Festival Hema Malini and chairman of Pune Festival Suresh Kalmadi.The Pune Festival had been started by Suresh Kalmadi in 1989 and this is the first time that the festival stands cancelled in 32 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/32nd-pune-festival-cancelled-due-to-covid-19-pandemic/story-PomQGQObYigABafgrVTrHL.html
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||Class 11 admissions: Students opt for govt schools amid Covid slowdown in Chandigarh||The UT education department has so far received 12, 946 applications for admission to Class-11 in the city’s government schools. This even as there are five more days to go before the registrations close. There are 12, 815 seats available for Class-11 in 40 government schools of the city, of which 6,420 are for the humanities stream, 3,080 for sciences (both medical and non medical), 1,755 for vocational courses and 1,560 for the commerce stream. Director school education (DSE) Rubinderjit Singh Brar said, “The high number of forms this year can be attributed to the Covid effect. Due to the financial crunch, it is likely that some students from private schools may be opting for government schools this time. Admissions are open till August 3 so we are expecting a record number of forms this year.”As many as 16,542 students have registered at the UT education department’s online portal so far, of which 14,208 have paid the registration fees of Rs 130 and 12,815 have completed all the formalities and submitted their forms.Brar said that no extra steps can be taken to accommodate the extra students. “We have a fixed number of seats in the city’s government schools, which will be allotted as per merit. It is important to make sure that schools don’t get overcrowded so that social distancing may be maintained.”Last year, 18, 575 applications had been received for 12, 815 seats. More than three counsellings had to be conducted to adjust the students. This had lead to protests by parents. This year, Brar maintained that since the counselling will be done online, it is unlikely that anyone will create any ruckus.Registration for quota students also being held onlineRegistration of EWS students and those applying under sports and other quotas will also be held online in view of the pandemic. District education officer (DEO) Harbir Singh Anand said, “Those applying under various quotas will have to scan and provide copies of their documents online during registration. These will be checked later.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/class-11-admissions-students-opt-for-govt-schools-amid-covid-slowdown-in-chandigarh/story-5V6cc5ZMY5UR8mQsxUlJML.html
29-07-2020||City||No usual pre-Eid rush as shops open briefly ahead of festival in Kashmir||Many business establishments and markets opened in parts of Kashmir including Srinagar on Wednesday, but the usual rush of shoppers witnessed ahead of Eid was missing.Eid-ul-Azha, the festival of sacrifice, will be celebrated on Saturday amid the Covid-19 pandemic.The authorities here had eased some restrictions on Tuesday morning to allow shopping, but police enforced those again fearing swelling crowds and allowed the sale of only essential products and services. On Wednesday, however, shops and markets were allowed to open in some areas.“Markets opened, but the buyers were mostly absent, even in the city’s business hub — Lal Chowk. It does not feel like Eid is just two days away. Even bakery shops are closed here,” said Abdul Majeed, a Srinagar resident.However, Goni Khan Market was an exception as shoppers, particularly women, showed up in large numbers to buy cosmetics, jewellery and apparels, which the bazaar is famous for.Javed Ahmad, who sells cosmetics in the market, said police vehicles were stationed in the market on Tuesday prompting everybody to shut shop. “Today, shops were allowed to open and there was some good sale after long. Since the situation is not normal, we can’t expect a heavy rush,” he said.In Old City, the Nowhatta Chowk market witnessed some footfall, prompting the authorities to vacate the street vendors.“There was heavy rush at street vendor stalls selling apparel and kitchen items but sensing the heavy crowds, the police forced many vendors to vacate and close shops,” said Noor Mohammad, a government employee who visited the market.Police vehicles kept roaming the streets to check for any violation of Covid-19 protocols.The divisional administration had decided to ease the lockdown from July 28 to 30 in Kashmir to allow people to purchase goods and essential commodities.No public transport was allowed except autos and personal cars. “There was a rush of private cars on the roads which caused some traffic snarls,” said Danish Ahmad, who had gone out with his family for shopping.Religious leaders this year have urged people to celebrate Eid with simplicity taking all necessary precautions.Sacrificial animals were also available at select places. Officials said the sale of sacrificial animals will not be allowed on July 31, a day ahead of the festival. They said all the mosques and shrines will remain closed for prayers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-usual-pre-eid-rush-as-shops-open-briefly-ahead-of-festival-in-kashmir/story-q6x3XqLJtsjrz0vnsiqacO.html
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||PG fire case: Court dismisses accused’s revision petition for bail||The Chandigarh district court dismissed the revision petition filed by Nitesh Bansal, an accused in the Sector-32 PG fire case, wherein three girls had died. The tragedy had struck on February 23. Nitesh, who had taken the place on rent from accused Gaurav Aneja, was running the paying guest accommodation (PG) along with Nitish Popli since August 2018 without registering it with the UT estate office. The trio has been booked under Sections 304 (punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.On June 20, the court of judicial magistrate first class Meenakshi Gupta had dismissed Bansal’s application for default bail following which he had filed a revision petition in the district court, seeking to set aside the trial court’s order.Bansal’s advocate said: “The chargesheet has been submitted by the investigation agency but the investigation is not complete. So, it’s an incomplete chargesheet which has been filed by the police, who could not complete the investigation because of Covid-19 pandemic.”“As per Section 167 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the petitioner is entitled to be released on bail in case the investigation is not completed within 60 or 90 days of custody. In this case, the chargesheet is incomplete, so he liable to get default bail,” he said.However, the court dismissed the revision petition on Wednesday.His regular bail plea had also been dismissed by the court of additional district and sessions judge Rajesh Sharma on July 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pg-fire-case-court-dismisses-accused-s-revision-petition-for-bail/story-JFm279qPdmdsDWINbq2IoJ.html
29-07-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka puts syllabus on hold that dropped Tipu Sultan chapter from Class 7||The Karnataka government which had come under fire by the opposition for dropping a chapter on Mysore ruler Tipu Sultan from a Class 7 textbook has decided to put the revised syllabus on hold. Opposition parties on Wednesday pointed out that it was not just the chapter on Tipu Sultan but also lessons on the life of Jesus Christ and Prophet Mohammed which had been dropped.While the opposition parties had alleged that it was a part of the creeping saffronisation of education, the Karnataka Textbook Society Director Made Gowda had defended the move on Tuesday. He said that it was just rationalisation as a part of a 30 percent reduction in syllabus. Gowda had also pointed out that since the number of academic days had been reduced from 220 days to a mere 120 days because of the ongoing pandemic, the syllabus had been reduced proportionately.State primary and secondary education minister Suresh Kumar on Wednesday, however, claimed that he had seen reports in the media about the revised syllabus and said that it (revised syllabus) had not been finalised. “We don’t even know how many days would be available for the current academic year, so how can we finalise the syllabus?” the minister said, adding that he had directed his department to withdraw the revised syllabus which had been uploaded on the Department of State Education Research and Training website.Asserting that there was no question of belittling any person or historical incident, the minister in a note said that the effort of the government would be to build and unite rather than divide the society. Earlier, the leader of opposition in the assembly, Siddaramiah, claimed that the official government was taking a backseat and the true Sangh government was coming to fore. “If they try to foist the secret agenda of the Sangh and destroy the aspirations of our constitution, the Congress won’t tolerate it. We will be forced to agitate,” said the Congress leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-puts-syllabus-on-hold-that-dropped-tipu-sultan-chapter-from-class-7/story-kblCkkNBetILqcbq4Rt4WM.html
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||Kotkhai custodial death: Zaidi seeks better facility, computer to prepare defence||The special court of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has issued notice to the investigating agency regarding two applications of suspended inspector general of police (IGP) Zahur Haider Zaidi, who is an accused in Kotkhai custodial death case.Zaida has filed two applications seeking better facility and a computer to prepare his defence in the case.Zaidi stated that he is living with 12 other inmates and in such a situation, the documents are at constant risk of being misplaced and their safekeeping is difficult. The application mentioned that before the Covid-19 pandemic, his counsel visited him regularly and he could pass handwritten instructions and documents.“Since March 17, the visits of my counsel have been discontinued due to Covid -19 and as a result safe-keeping and proper organisation of the case-related documents has become difficult,” he stated. He has requested the court to pass instructions to the superintendent of Model Jail “to use the computer in the office of a jail officer for three hours a week under his watch” so that he can prepare his defence and related material.The application was rejected by the superintendent, as there is no such provision existing in the Punjab jail manual wherein undertrial prisoners can be allowed to access computers to prepare their own case.The jail superintendent said due to security reasons, no inmate is allowed to use a computer in the office. “He was advised to prepare handwritten notes, if he desires so. He can also discuss case via e-mulaqat, and can use telephone,” the superintendent mentioned.In the second application, Zaidi stated that he is a postgraduate and an income tax payer, hence, is entitled for better class facility that is “B” class status. The court has sought response from the CBI by July 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kotkhai-custodial-death-zaidi-seeks-better-facility-computer-to-prepare-defence/story-sN8iWb4fPK9uZtlOJsLUlJ.html
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: CBI court dismisses suspended SHO’s plea to be kept in separate barrack||Stating that ‘everyone is equal before law’ the special CBI court has dismissed the application moved by suspended SHO Jaswinder Kaur, an accused in Rs 5 lakh bribery case, wherein she had requested to be kept in a barrack separate from other prisoners or undertrials during judicial custody. She has been sent to judicial custody till August 11.Jaswinder had stated that as she remained with Chandigarh police for about 20 years and served as the witness or investigation officer against a number of undertrails and convicted persons who are presently confined in Burail jail, she may be harmed.Disposing of this application, Special judge, CBI court, Sushil Kumar Garg ordered: “Everyone is equal before law. No one has special privilege, except the procedure established by law. Accused Jaswinder Kaur has no special privilege to be kept in a separate barrack from other prisoners or under trails,” the court observed. Burail jail superintendent was directed to act as per rules and in accordance with law.On June 29, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) had booked Jaswinder Kaur, the then station house officer (SHO) of Manimajra and middleman Bhagwan Singh on the complaint of Manimajra resident Gurdeep Singh. He had alleged that the SHO had demanded money in lieu of not registering a cheating case against him.The two were booked under Section 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 7 and 7A of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988.Jaswinder, who remained absconding for over three weeks, had surrendered in the CBI court on Saturday and is in four-day police custody, which ends on July 29.On Wednesday, during the resumed hearing of the case, the former SHO was produced through video-conferencing after completion of her police remand. CBI public prosecutor KP Singh moved an application seeking judicial custody of 14 days. The court sent her to judicial custody till August 11.2017 GRAFT CASECBI court has granted “one more opportunity” to DIG Chandigarh to submit the final order regarding sanction for prosecution against Jaswinder Kaur, failing which “no opportunity will be granted.” The case is now listed for August 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-cbi-court-dismisses-suspended-sho-s-plea-to-be-kept-in-separate-barrack/story-bUvfoSN0upFtKAPYwFfybI.html
29-07-2020||Pune||Elderly man allegedly kills wife, then dies by suicide; booked||A 70-year-old man has been booked by the Pune police on Wednesday for the murder of his 66-year-old wife, after both of them were found dead at their apartment in Karvenagar on Monday. The elderly man, according to the police, first murdered his wife and then, died by suicide. The couple cited reasons in a note left behind that they multiple health problems. A case under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Alankar police station against the 70-year-old. “It is a case of suicide. They left a note stating that they have mutually decided to take this step due to the various illnesses they had. One of them had Parkinson’s disease, they had blood pressure and sugar problems and both faced difficulty in movement because of problems in their knees,” said Kalpana Jadhav, senior police inspector, Alankar police station. The bodies were discovered after an executive, of the tiffin service they had hired, arrived on Monday afternoon. The man, according to police had retired from insurance company while wife was a former banker. The bodies were discovered and taken for post-mortem while the police registered an accidental death report (ADR) in their name. After the post-mortem was over, the police found that the woman had either been strangled or choked to death before the man died by suicide, according to the police. Therefore, the ADR was then turned into a case of murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/elderly-man-allegedly-kills-wife-then-dies-by-suicide-booked/story-dX0P3mmU1Vnz00Qs5sbiHJ.html
29-07-2020||Pune||Minor relative apprehended for murder of 17-year-old girl in Chakan||A minor boy has been apprehended for the murder of a minor girl in Bhama Askhed village on July 24. Three men were earlier arrested in the case. However, the minor boy confessed to the crime after which an application for their release was made in a local court, according to Prakash Dhas, senior police inspector, Chakan. While the deceased as well as the apprehended were both 17 years of age, the girl was technically the boy’s distant maternal aunt, according to police officials. The 17-year-old was apprehended on Tuesday and produced before the Juvenile Justice Board (JJB) after which he was sent to the observation home. He is a Class 9 student.The minor boy used to dress up in a female character for a folk poetry performance in the village. He was angry with his now deceased cousin because she called him a “transgender”, according to the police.“He used to watch crime shows and porn. He came up with a plan to kill her. He created a hiding spot for himself on her route home using a tree branch and a stone and hid behind it. As the girl approached the spot, he pounced and gagged her, before he smashed her head,” said PI Dhas.He watched movies to get ideas about disposal of evidence, according to the police. The boy took the girl’s clothes and phone away, packed in a plastic bag and hid all of them before going home, changing his own clothes and hiding his own clothes too. He then joined the search party that was looking for the deceased girl.The police grew suspicious of him after they realised that he had informed the family that she was dead without physically confirming from the spot where she was found.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/minor-relative-apprehended-for-murder-of-17-year-old-girl-in-chakan/story-fs2PZCfqEBpSJQgyF7gheP.html
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||Sector-9 firing: Chandigarh Police seeks production warrants for two accused||Fifty-seven days after indiscriminate firing at a liquor shop in Sector-9, the Chandigarh Police have moved court seeking production warrants for the two accused who allegedly fired 10 bullets and injured four people at the vend. The accused, Devinder Chawla, a resident of Hansi in Hisar, and Amarjit Singh, a resident of Pehowa in Kurukshetra, were arrested by the Kurukshetra crime investigating agency (CIA) on July 20 after exchange of gunfire. The application filed by UT police seeking production warrants for the accused will come up on July 31. Both accused are active members of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi’s gang. They opened fire at the liquor vendor on the directions of Bishnoi to scare him and extort money. Both accused are history sheeters and were allegedly persons of interest in around 23 cases in Punjab and Haryana. Chawla is wanted for 10 cases of murder, robbery, extortion, the Arms Act, NDPS Act and attempt to murder in Punjab and Haryana. Amarjit, too, is believed to be involved in 10 criminal cases in both the states. Police say the two accused had reached the Sector-9 market in a car on June 2 and fired 10 bullets. Both fled from the spot after injuring four employees at the vend. Later, the UT police recovered their car from Yamunanagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sector-9-firing-chandigarh-police-seek-production-warrants-for-two-accused/story-JNmaWRyv9s3nfEwt3uaAdJ.html
29-07-2020||City||3 armed men loot ₹5.5 lakh from co-operative bank in Gurdaspur||GURDASPUR Three unidentified people on Wednesday looted ₹5.5 lakh in cash at gunpoint from a branch of the Gurdaspur Central Cooperative Bank in Ruliana village, 25 km from the district headquarters. The branch doesn’t have security guard, it is learnt.Police said the incident took place around 11:40am when two of the three miscreants barged into the bank on the village’s outskirts, took the staff at gunpoint and decamped with the cash mentioned above. At the time of the incident, cashier Sudarshan Chand and another employee Gurpreet Singh were present at the branch. “Two men with their faces covered entered the bank while their accomplice waited outside. After shaking hands with Gurpreet, the accused pointed pistols at us and asked to hand over the cash,” said the cashier. “When we told them that there was no cash in the bank, they threatened to shoot us. We gave them ₹5.5 lakh. Before leaving the spot, the accused also took away our mobile phones and threatened to kill us if we complained to the police.” He said the peon was out of the bank for some work. “When the peon returned, we reported the incident to the police and the village’s sarpanch,” he said. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Rajinder Singh Sohal, who reached the spot soon after the incident, said their teams were working to ascertain the identity of the accused, and footages of the closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras are being examined. Kalanaur station house officer (SHO) Amandeep Singh said they have registered a case under sections 392 (robbery), 379 (theft), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian penal code (IPC) and 25-54-59 of the Arms Act against the accused. Further investigations are on, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-armed-men-loot-5-5-lakh-from-co-operative-bank-in-gurdaspur/story-tnGEAPohLhYSxrsh17omIM.html
29-07-2020||City||2015 police firings: SIT questions ex-Kotkapura DSP after he joins probe||The special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 police firing incidents, on Wednesday, questioned the then Kotkapura DSP Baljit Singh, now an SP, in connection with Kotkapura firing, after he joined the probe.After evading the SIT for over three weeks, Baljit appeared before the SIT to join the investigation in the FIR registered on October 14, 2015, after the Kotkapura firing. Sources confirmed that Baljit was questioned for a few hours.The SIT probing the 2015 incidents had summoned Baljit on a couple of occasions in the first week of July, but he had failed to appear. Fearing arrest, he had moved an anticipatory bail plea in the district and sessions court, Faridkot, but the plea was dismissed and the court allowed an application for his arrest.Later, the Punjab and Haryana high court stayed his arrest and granted him interim bail while directing him to join investigation on July 29.Baljit was named as an accused in an FIR registered in 2018 in connection with the Kotkapura firing episode, but was granted bail.SECURITY TO ‘PREMIS’ RELEASED ON BAILThe district police provided security cover to five dera followers accused in a ‘bir’ theft case after they were released on bail from the Bathinda jail.The SIT probing sacrilege cases had arrested Nishan Singh and Ranjit Singh alias Bhola, of Kotkapura; Baljit Singh, of Sikhanwala village; and Randeep Singh alias Neela and Narinder Sharma, of Faridkot, in connection with a case of theft of a ‘bir’ of Guru Granth Sahib in 2015. A Faridkot court had granted them bail on Monday after which they were released.SP Bhupinder Singh Sidhu said that 10 police personnel have been deployed with the five dera followers released from jail. “Earlier, two cops each were deployed for security of two other accused Shakti Singh and Sukhjinder Singh, who were released on bail earlier,” he added.Faridkot SSP Swarndeep Singh had directed to review security of the dera followers accused in sacrilege cases as well as those facing threat from Sikh hardliners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2015-police-firings-sit-questions-ed-kotkapura-dsp-after-he-joins-probe/story-Tgj5uemOiBtYRvnbh0U50L.html
29-07-2020||City||Himachal orchardists get ₹49 lakh outstanding payment in July||In a major relief to orchardists who had been cheated of their payments, a sum of ₹49 lakh has been recovered from at least 10 commission agents and returned to them in July by the efforts of the special investigation team (SIT) probing the matter.Superintendent of police (CID) Virendra Kalia said we have expedited the investigation against defaulters. More orchardists will be provided with their outstanding payments in the future and notices regarding default in payments are being issued to commission agents from time to time which will prevent such incidents in the future.Amar Singh Bhalaik, an apple orchardist from Kotgarh, said due to the SIT’s efforts, he got his pending payment which was on hold since 2017. Had I not approached and reported my complaint with the SIT, I would not have been able to get my payment for the commission agent, he said.For the past several years, commission agents have been cheating many orchardists by not making payments to them due to which the latter filed FIRs against various such agents at different police stations of the state.A SIT under the chairmanship of SP Kalia was set up in 2019. Out of the 1,305 complaints received by the CID, 870 have been solved while 475 complaints are under proceedings. So far, around ₹10 crore have been recovered and paid to orchardists.Every year, apple cultivation generates ₹4,500-crore business in the state and is one of the major sources of Himachal’s horticultural economy. Major apple growing belts in the state include Rohru, Jubbal, Kotkhai, Kotgarh, Chopal and Theog in Shimla district. Apples are also grown in Kullu, Mandi and Kinnaur districts.ADVISORY ISSUED TO ORCHARDISTSTo prevent further frauds and default in payments, Himachal orchardists has been advised to sell their produce to only authorised and registered commission agents and beware of middlemen, mediators and negotiators. Orchardists have been advised to only sell their produce to those commission agents who have the capacity to make payments.Confirm the background, their payment track record and history of commission agent before making any deal with them, they were told.Orchardists have been advised to confirm if a commission agent has been verified by the police before selling their produce to them, and always tell agents to make payment through online mode.They were also cautioned about not accepting open dated cheques as they have more chance of getting dishonoured, and told to immediately send a written complaint to the police, APMC secretary and agriculture deputy director for immediate action against the defaulter.To transport apples to fruit markets, hire vehicles which are authorised under registered transport unions and keep a copy of the necessary vehicle documents and immediately inform the police in case of any doubt, the orchardists were advised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-orchardists-get-49-lakh-outstanding-payment-in-july/story-OGqpJaGAm7nXpuUeme1gbM.html
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||Give free masks on purchase of sweets on Raksha Bandhan: Punjab CM to shop owners||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has advised shop owners in state to provide free masks to customers on purchase of sweets on the occasion of Raksha Bandhan.The appeal comes four days after the CM had announced that sweet shops will remain open on August 2, a day before Raksha Bandhan, despite the Sunday lockdown.DCs have been asked to advise owners of sweet shops in their districts to give a pair of masks free with purchase of sweets. Advisories may be issued to owners of other shops for giving away free masks on purchase of rakhis, said the CM.The aim is to promote use of masks to check spread of coronavirus in state, where covid cases are on the rise over the past couple of weeks. Captain has already warned of increasing fine for violation of mandatory use of mask.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/give-free-masks-on-purchase-of-sweets-on-raksha-bandhan-punjab-cm-to-shop-owners/story-VFzIMl9gwH9YD9teRi93LM.html
29-07-2020||City||BJP playing game to strengthen base in Punjab: Brahmpura||AMRITSAR Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD-Taksali) president Ranjit Singh Brahmpura on Wednesday said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was playing a game to strengthen its base in Punjab with the help of splinter Akali group floated by Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, and the Badal family. After inaugurating his party’s office in Amritsar, Brahmpura said, “The BJP wants to make itself powerful in Punjab. It is playing a game. It has ties with the Badal family as well as the Dhindsa group. The BJP is the boss of the Badals and Dhindsas. I am sure, in the coming days, the BJP will play a role in forging an alliance between the Dhindsa group and the Badals.” Brahmpura said his party will fight the upcoming Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) elections and the assembly polls in 2022. “We have already appealed to the Centre to conduct the SGPC elections as early as possible so that the religious body of the Sikhs can be liberated from the clutches of the Badal family.” Brahmpura said his party also rejects the three agriculture-related ordinances, which are not only anti-farmer, but also anti-Punjab and Haryana. “SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal and his wife Harsimrat Kaur have betrayed the farmers of Punjab by endorsing the three ordinances,” he said. Brahmpura, who was accompanied by All-India Sikh Students Federation (AISSF) patron Karnail Singh Peer Mohammad, said a membership drive of his party has also been started.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-playing-game-to-strengthen-base-in-punjab-brahmpura/story-h3ZU4UIi6aP7MCDpzXiN4O.html
29-07-2020||City||Rs 14 crore project to renovate Mohali city’s water supply system: Minister||The entire water supply system of Mohali city is to be renovated at a cost of Rs 14 crore, Punjab minister of health, family welfare and labour Balbir Singh Sidhu said on Wednesday. He said the project is aimed at providing better water supply to residents. The minister said that the Rs 13.9-crore project has already been started and in order to supply high-pressure water to residents, booster stations were being set up at five places in the city. The five places include Phase 1, Phase 2, Phase 5, Sector 70 (Mataur) and Sector 72. Sidhu said that old pumps and motors installed at various water plants in the city and water pipes would be replaced as per requirement. He said that a modern SCADA (Supervisory control and data acquisition) system is also being installed to detect water leakage in the pipelines and immediately rectify it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rs-14-crore-project-to-renovate-mohali-city-s-water-supply-system-minister/story-FHUaWNLbgEyXgf2jzUl0RI.html
29-07-2020||Pune||Do not have enough manpower to implement all Covid rules, says official as violation cases in June, July dip||There has been a noticeable decline over the past two months in the number violations for spitting at public places and not wearing a mask as per civic body data.The number of cases reported in March for spitting at public places was 1,104 and Rs 1,36,615 was collected in fines. However, only six cases were registered in April and Rs 1,250 was collected in fines and two cases were reported in May; 12 in June and 39 in July for which Rs 2,050 and Rs 7,780 was collected in fines respectively. Mask violation rule was passed, implemented and observed over the past two months and only two cases were reported in May with the collection of Rs 1,000 as fine, which increased to 189 cases in June with the collection of Rs 90,100 in fines and Rs 1,98,500 as fine in July as 397 cases were reported. The government has put in place rules to wear a mask and not spit at public places in order to stop the spread of Covid-19 infection.When the lockdown was first announced, the number of cases were high, however, it has been on a ever since. Dynaneshwar Molak, head of solid waste management, PMC, said, “The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) had assigned the task to monitor these violations to some officials, but now due to the easing of restrictions, they have been assigned to different tasks. We do not have enough workforce to keep a check on the Covid-19 rules and norms. Therefore, there has been a fall in the registration of the cases in the last two months. Moreover, now 90% to 95% of people do wear masks and avoid spitting on the road.”Dr Rahul Doshi, a general physician, said, “Covid-19 cases are increasing rapidly and citizens and government authorities have to cooperate with each other to stop the spread of the virus. The government cannot keep a check on citizens all the time and they should think about their health first and should stop the spread of the disease by following all rules and regulations.”According to health experts, spitting in public places and not wearing a mask, both contribute to the spread of the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/do-not-have-enough-manpower-to-implement-all-covid-rules-says-official-as-violation-cases-in-june-july-dip/story-RzN5yygNr11REbFJPV62KK.html
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||Two elderly women lose gold chains to snatchers in 2 days in Chandigarh||A 62-year-old woman out on an evening walk lost her gold chain to two motorcycle-borne snatchers in Sector 21, Chandigarh, police said on Wednesday. Victim Satya Verma told police that she was on her way back home after the walk on Tuesday evening when the incident took place. She raised the alarm but the accused managed to flee. A case under Sections 379A and 356 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered at the Sector-19 police station. Cops are scanning CCTV footage of the area to get leads in the case. The incident comes a day after a 73-year-old woman lost her gold chain to a snatcher in Sector 15. The woman, identified as Shakuntala, was returning from market when a youth approached her from the rear and fled after snatching her gold chain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-elderly-women-lose-gold-chains-to-snatchers-in-2-days-in-chandigarh/story-59vH88POYmrtyvtddmcNKI.html
29-07-2020||City||Couple held for immigration fraud in Mohali||A couple has been arrested for allegedly duping a large number of persons through their immigration firm in Mohali. The accused have been identified as Sheetal Singh alias Sonu and Navjot Kaur, both residents of Shahkot in Punjab. The couple ran ‘Child Abroad Education and Stewart Placement Services’ in Phase 11, from 2014 to 2018 and duped a several persons on the pretext of sending them abroad. They allegedly shut the office in 2018 and moved to Jalandhar, from where they were arrested. No recoveries have been made from them so far, police said.Phase 11 station house officer Jagdeep Singh Brar said eight cases have been registered against Sonu and the amount he defrauded comes to around Rs 1 crore.According to sources, similar cases of cheating and fraud have also been registered against the accused at police stations of Jalandhar and other cities. Police are now probing if the couple had a license for the immigration firm. Sonu reportedly even stayed in Australia for six months.The case has been registered under Section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code. The accused were produced in a local court on Wednesday and sent to two-day police custody.Immigration consultant booked for cheating  An immigration consultant was booked for duping a Kharar resident of Rs 2.36 lakh on the pretext of sending him abroad. Complainant Jaswinder Singh of Preet Nagar, Kharar, alleged that he had come in contact with Sandeep of Immi Expert Overseas Sector-35, Chandigarh, in April 2019. The latter told him that he will send him abroad at a cost of Rs 2.36 lakh. The accused, however, failed to send him abroad and did not even refund the amount. A case under Sections 420 (cheating), 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Sector 36 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/couple-held-for-immigration-fraud-in-mohali/story-nqleGPFDFZk0m04lP5m4zH.html
29-07-2020||City||34-year-old woman ends life in Zirakpur, husband booked||Mohali: A resident of Badal Colony, Zirakpur, was booked after his 34-year-old wife ended life by consuming poison, allegedly over dowry harassment. The woman’s father told the police that the couple got married in 2018 and he gave them dowry as per his capacity. However, the accused and his family members started pressuring her for more dowry and even physically assaulted her. Last Saturday, he got a call informing him that his daughter had consumed poison and was admitted at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, where she died on July 27. On his complaint, a case under Section 304-B (death of a woman caused by burns or bodily injury or occurs otherwise than under normal circumstances within seven years of her marriage) against the husband.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/34-year-old-woman-ends-life-in-zirakpur-husband-booked/story-PyJtPtunSb87tHnBx17BrI.html
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||Canadian College announces healthcare academic pathway with Chitkara University||Bow Valley College in Calgary, Alberta, has announced a pathway programme with Chitkara University, India. Chitkara students who have graduated from any healthcare programme can now transfer to the health and human services management (HHSM) one-year post-diploma certificate at Bow Valley College through Chitkara University. Eligible candidates will be offered a letter of acceptance from Bow Valley College in Canada. The students can apply for their study permit and attend a four-week orientation programme at Chitkara University before coming to Canada. Nursing and healthcare programs are much sought after and completing them offers promising careers in Canada. Amid uncertain circumstances caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, this pathway ensures that students can continue to achieve their international study goals during this time. The first cohort under the HHSM post-diploma certificate arrangement is expected to start in January 2021, based on the easing of travel and other restrictions in Canada. An innovative healthcare program, HHSM combines elements of business study and managing the Canadian Health system to prepare students for management positions in the Canadian healthcare sector.Students who will graduate from Bow Valley College will be eligible to apply for a post-graduatework permit in Canada or even pursue other diploma programs from Bow Valley College or a degree with a public university pathway partner.Speaking about this innovative pathway, Bow Valley College’s vice-president Dr Misheck Mwaba said, “This partnership is a significant step in providing our international learners with a seamless pathway leading to a unified system of lifelong learning. We offer global education with learning outcomes aligned to industry-validated competencies and skills in healthcare. International students are an important part of Bow Valley College’s student body, and this announcement reflects their importance to Canada and our local community. We continue to shape the future of education and make all learning count through leading practices and partnerships.”Chitkara University’s pro-chancellor Dr Madhu Chitkara said,”The pathway programme is being launched at a very appropriate time. Given the current situation, students will be able to continue their education while keeping their dreams of international education intact. We have a formidable and robust faculty of healthcare at Chitkara University that spans across programmes of nursing, optometry, pharma programs and allied healthcare.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/canadian-college-announces-healthcare-academic-pathway-with-chitkara-university/story-9vYPLqtov9zFgQQ6pF5q5M.html
29-07-2020||Patna||Medical interns on Covid duty in Bihar demand insurance cover, stipend hike||Doctors on internship and post graduate (PG) students, including those under the three-year residency scheme in state-run medical colleges of Bihar, have demanded insurance cover and indemnity, similar to the one provided by the state government for its employees on Covid-19 duty, besides hike in their stipend.The medicos also gave the government a seven-day ultimatum, failing which they may take “hard decisions”. The Bihar government had on July 27 announced that dependents of employees, who die in line of Covid-19 duty, will be offered either a government job or special family pension equivalent to the amount of the last drawn salary for the remaining period of the employee’s service till the time of superannuation, after which they will get normal family pension.The medicos have now demanded that all interns and PG students, including ad-hoc, regular, junior and senior PG residents, across all government-run medical colleges in Bihar, be also included under this cover.The demand was sent on Wednesday to Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar under the banner of the Bihar chapter of the United Resident & Doctors’ Association India (URDAI). Besides medicos of the nine state-run medical colleges, the forum also includes medicos of the AIIMS and the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), both in Patna.URDAI-Bihar president Dr Vinay Kumar held that the life of an intern or a resident had the same value as any other permanent employee. “If such benefits are not extended to them, they may be removed from Covid-19 duty. The duties for care of Covid-19 patients should be restricted to those who are covered under insurance and indemnity schemes of the state government,” said Dr Kumar.“We also want the government to provide a free treatment facility to frontline corona warriors if they get infected in the course of duty,” he added. Dr Kumar, in a separate letter to the director, AIIMS-Patna, under the banner of the Resident Doctors Association, said the earlier insurance scheme — Rs 50 lakh to the next of kin in event of death of healthcare workers involved in Covid care — announced by the Prime Minister, had expired in June, this year.“As of today, there is no information on the extension of the scheme. The AIIMS-Patna has not provided any insurance security cover to its resident doctors at the local administrative level,” he added, citing the Bihar government’s order for its employees.Dr Kumar demanded that the same benefit should be extended to the resident doctors of AIIMS-Patna as well since they were serving the people of Bihar. The letter said that beneficiaries should include ad hoc, regular, junior, senior as well as PG residents and MBBS interns of the institute. The resident doctors may be compelled to take “hard decisions” after seven days if their interests were overlooked, the letter said.The URDAI also demanded a revision in stipend of MBBS interns as well as PG students.The association is demanding a revision from Rs 15,000 to Rs 25,000 in monthly MBBS internship, which is of one-year. Similarly, it is demanding Rs 80,000 in first year, Rs 85,000 in second year and Rs 90,000 during the three-year PG curriculum. At present, they get Rs 50,000, Rs 55,000 and Rs 60,000 in the first, second and third year, respectively. Their stipend was last revised four years back.They are also demanding Rs 1,05,000, Rs 1,10,000 and Rs 1,15,000 for senior residents in the first, second and third year, respectively.Bihar has around 950 MBBS interns, 600 PG students, 300 senior residents and 250 (approx) junior residents across its medical colleges, excluding those at AIIMS and IGIMS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/medical-interns-on-covid-duty-in-bihar-demand-insurance-cover-stipend-hike/story-8TZjB06ltbxzmc8lVsYDnI.html
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||To tackle drones from China, HP police panel advises positioning air defence assets at appropriate locations||Close on the heels of the Chinese intrusion in the Ladakh sector and subsequent violent clashes that claimed the lives of 20 soldiers, a high-level panel of the Himachal Pradesh Police has recommended the state government to strengthen the road and communication network in Kinnaur and Lahaul-Spiti along Chinese border and build new airstrips.The panel comprising five battalion superintendents of police (SP) visited 36 villages in the two tribal districts, which share a long border with the hostile neighbouring country. The director general of police had constituted a panel of the five Indian Police service officers, comprising commandants of different police battalions that included Sanjeev Gandhi (2nd IRB Sakoh), Soumya Sambasivan (3rd IRB Pandoh), Anupam Sharma (5th IRB Bassi),Sakshi Verma (1st IRB Bangarh) ,and Virender Singh (4th IRB Jangalberi). The director general of police had sent the panel to 36 villages close to the Chinese border in Kinnaur and Lahaul Spiti district. The panel was sent as part of confidence building measures post Chinese intrusion in Galwan valley in Ladakh, in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed in hand-to-hand combat between the Indian army and Chinese troops. “The report has been submitted to the government for consideration,” said director general of police Sanjay Kundu. Panel also made a presentation to the governor, Bandaru Dattatreya, recently and the report was kept in the state cabinet. The panel had recommended construction of two roads - Wangtu in Kinnaur to Mud in Spiti valley, which will shorten the distance between the strategic locations in the two districts by 120 kilometers. It recommended another road between Brua in Kinnaur to Harshil in Uttrakhand over the 17320-feet high Khaga pass.The panel has also recommended handing over the Karchham-Chhitkul road in Kinnaur to Border Roads Organisation (BRO). The road is maintained by Himachal Pradesh Public Works Department. Apart from the roads, the panel has suggested that dependable and round-the-clock communication system should be installed. DRONES FROM CHINA A MATTER OF CONCERN To tackle drones from China, the police panel has advised that air defence assets be positioned at appropriate locations to prevent violation of the Indian Air Space. New airstrips must be developed in the Spiti area in Lahaul-Spiti district for prompt deployment of forces in the border areas in case of need to act as advanced landing grounds. Helipads must also be developed in the forward areas, the panel advised. “The state CID must establish three counter espionage units in the border area in overall national security interests,” the panel said, adding that the presence of Central Intelligence Agencies, Indian Army and Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) should be increased to improve people’s morale and confidence to meet with any unforeseen incident of intrusion.The panel further observed that the Atal Tunnel between Manali and Keylong is likely to be commissioned shortly and this will result in increase in traffic along the Manali–Leh axis.“As this axis will have strategic importance, adequate arrangements like intelligence, security and maintenance of the axis round the year should be made in advance,” the panel said. It also stresses on imparting basic Chinese and Tibetan language training to ITBP and State intelligence agencies.RAISE BATTALIONS OF KINNAUR, LAHAUL-SPITI SCOUTS The panel also recommended that on the pattern of Ladakh Scouts, Battalions of Kinnaur and Lahaul-Spiti scouts should be raised to be called Himachal Scouts. These Scouts can be used to dominate the 240-Km Indo-China border in Himachal, the panel said. Further the economic activities should be increased to repopulate the areas. Tribal tourism may be promoted and marketing of local flowers and produce may also be encouraged. Such measures will lead to re-population of the border areas, the panel said. The police panel observed that the people were patriotic and possess high morale and must be given guerrilla training by Central Para Military Forces. Prior to 2001 the SSB would give such trainings to the villagers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/to-tackle-drones-from-china-hp-police-panel-advises-positioning-air-defence-assets-at-appropriate-locations/story-pTLTmyvsKbxRKg9TU4G4eM.html
29-07-2020||Pune||PMC likely to allow restaurants, hotels to resume operations in August||The Pune Municipal Commissioner (PMC) is likely to allow hotels and lodges to resume operation as the civic body has scheduled a meeting with hoteliers to discuss a plan to restart businesses. While the state government allowed reopening of hotels with 33 per cent capacity on July 8, the PMC had not issued orders at the local level. Now with the government looking at another round of relaxations, the Pune civic body has scheduled meeting with representatives from the hotel industry to discuss modalities of restarting the business. According to PMC Municipal Commissioner Vikram Kumar, the civic body did not give permission till now as Pune has seen a surge in the number of Covid-19 positive cases and most of the hotels were in containment zones. “This prompted us to defer the decision until now. But we will be reviewing the details after a meeting with the hotelier association in the city and with the other authorities jointly on July 31, when we plan for August 2020,” said Kumar. Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad together have at least 400 to 500 hotels with most of them willing to reopen businesses, said Sharan Shetty, president, Pune Hoteliers Association (PHA). “The PHA is in talks with the authorities to try to get permission for the hotels to open up as early as possible. The 33 per cent occupancy condition in the state government directive is quite unreasonable considering the number of overheads and costs involved in running the operations of a hotel. However, given the circumstances, we would be willing to start operations,” said Shetty. While hotels with attached rooms are likely to be permitted to carry on their business, small restaurants and eateries in Pune hope that a similar decision will be taken for them as they report less than 30 per cent of the normal business through ‘take-home’ services. The shortage of the workforce after around 70 per cent staff working as cooks, waiters returned home to their home state during lockdown has only complicated the situation for these restaurants. The otherwise crowded restaurants on Fergusson college road, Camp and other areas are complaining that business has taken a major hit even as home delivery of food is allowed. “Just when we were looking to pick up business, another round of lockdown was announced. Our daily sale has now gone down by 80 per cent if you compare it with pre-lockdown sales. It has come down to only 20 per cent of the usual that is around Rs 70,000 per day on average,” said GB Joshi, an accountant at Hotel Vaishali on Fergusson college road. The shortage of workers, as Joshi noted, is making the “business unviable.” In Pune, most of those involved in cooking and serving food were from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Uttarakhand and Karnataka. This labour force, according to hoteliers, may take six more months to return. Kasim Irani, the owner of Goodluck café, said, “With business going down to 5 per cent of the usual and absence of our regular employees, we have downsized the menu and only 10 per cent from the entire list is available for takeaway. Even if our staff returns, I may not be able to recruit all till business comes to normal. I hope the government will allow the restaurant to open with 50 per cent of occupancy.” According to the Pune Restaurant and Hotelier Association (PRAHA), the city has over 8,000 restaurants of only 150 have restarted the business in full while many are operating with reduced hours. “The lockdown has claimed jobs of 2.5 lakh workers in our industry in Pune. After hotels are allowed to resume at 33 per cent occupancy, we expect the government to also allow us to reopen the dine-in facility without which the business is unviable,” said PRAHA president Ganesh Shetty. Initially in March and April, restaurant owners, unaware of how long the lockdown may be extended, paid the salaries of the staff but also provided them with accommodation. Later, when the staff returned to their hometown, the Maharashtra government began unlocking process and allowed many to reopen from June 9. “Many of our members are paying rent as well as electricity bills for their premises when business is much below normal. Many small and big restaurants, who are finding it difficult to keep business running may close down in the coming days,” said Shetty. With offices also not operating to full capacity, many small hotels with dependence on delivery business during day-time are finding it difficult. Prashant Shetty from Nimantran said, “The daily sale is around Rs 30,000 to 40,000 and if we are lucky on weekends then it exceeds Rs 45,000. On weekdays we get 40 to 50 orders per day and on weekends the number of orders received is around 80 to 100. There is a definite hike in takeaway orders as we do not receive so many orders for delivery before lockdown.” The concept of no contact delivery was introduced to assure safety by restaurants. However, many people do not prefer ordering food online choose to eat home-cooked instead, complained those involved in the food delivery business. Ravi Manik Kamble, a delivery executive, said, “We receive around 8 to 10 orders per day and we get Rs 15 to Rs 30 per order depending on the distance of the delivery. All my savings are over and the number of orders per day has reduced almost by 60 per cent. Swiggy and Zomato charge us an extra Rs 300 for a raincoat and hence it becomes difficult to take more orders. The traffic police click our picture post 10 pm when we wear raincoats and that creates a problem for us which eventually creates a barrier in delivering more orders.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-likely-to-allow-restaurants-hotels-to-resume-operations-in-august/story-T6JEesoUfH2lPf2YBKLEWJ.html
29-07-2020||City||Strengthen healthcare services instead of imposing lockdown: CPI M to HP govt||Amid surge in Covid-19 infections in Himachal Pradesh, the Communist Party of Indian (Marxist) has demanded that the state government should strengthen health care services in the state. The CPI (M) has claimed that implementing a complete lockdown in the state will not be rational and practical as it will further damage the economy. The party suggested that the restrictions must be implemented only in containment zones.The CPI (M) has claimed that re-imposing the lockdown will increase financial burden on small businesses and daily wagers, leading to chaos and dissatisfaction among people. CPI(M) state secretary Onkar Shad said the lockdown will also have a bad effect on the apple season which has just started and that the state government should prepare a comprehensive action plan for it.He said the state government has not provided any financial relief or assessed the losses caused to vegetable and flower growers during the season and instead has increased the burden by hiking bus fare, LPG gas, petrol and diesel prices.He added that the state government has even failed to prevent arbitrary fees charged by private schools. The CPI (M) has asked the state government to immediately convene an all party meeting to seek suggestions to tackle the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/strengthen-healthcare-services-instead-of-imposing-lockdown-cpi-m-to-hp-govt/story-Ejvn32g4otw6fHXSrNIsQM.html
29-07-2020||City||Himachal CM rules out complete lockdown||Chief minister (CM) Jai Ram Thakur on Wednesday said he had no plans to impose complete lockdown in the state. The CM said, “Unlock 3.0 will be implemented in the state shortly. Lockdown will continue only in containment zones. The government will be stricter in the areas where Covid-19 cases are on the rise.” He was speaking on the sidelines of an event organised at Hotel Peterhoff to felicitate the new BJP state chief Suresh Kashyap. “How can there be a lockdown when the nation is implementing lockdown 3.0,” said Thakur. The CM admitted that the state had suffered huge economic losses due to the pandemic. “Covid-19 has put financial burden on everyone. We all need to share the burden. There are certain decision that my government had to take with a heavy heart and the state has suffered huge losses.” said Thakur. He also cautioned against complacency. “People have become complacent while we need to take more careful as the virus is peaking,” said the CM.He also lauded party workers and former state party president Rajeev Bindal for their work during the Covid-19 crisis. Taking a hit at non-BJP ruled states, he said, “There are certain states who have slashed the salaries of government employees. So far this situation has not emerged in Himachal,” he said. He also described the PMs tenure as ‘historic’ and called his leadership ‘strongest’.KASHYAP TAKES REINS OF HP BJP Kashyap on Wednesday officially took over the reins of the saffron party at the party headquarters in Shimla. Kashyap assumed his office in presence of chief minister Jai Ram Thakur. Kashyap, a former armyman, said Indian Air force is the 15th party chief. He is the first Himachal chief from the schedule caste category. Nahan legislator Rajeev Bindal who stepped down after his name was dragged into a health scam controversy lauded the party high command for selection of Kashyap as the new party chief. Bindal highlighted his achievements during his short stint as party chief. He said that he held 682 virtual rallies in the state during the lockdown to hold dialogue with party workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-cm-rules-out-complete-lockdown/story-msr3lVVYyjqlXvCneujM3N.html
29-07-2020||City||Jalandhar, Nawanshahr seek Rs 36 cr for flood control; state gives only Rs 3 cr||Jalandhar Even as the authorities had prepared and submitted a detailed Rs 35.9 crore proposal to strengthen the Dhussi Bandh on the Sutlej River to avoid a recurrence of floods that lashed the districts in August 2019, the state government has sanctioned Rs 2.9 crore to the Jalandhar division officer, who also looks after Nawanshahr district. Officers say that this shows that no lessons have been learn from last year’s disaster, when 100 villages had been hit by the floods. Farmers were the worst-hit due to poor maintenance of embankments, with locals even blaming illegal mining for adding to their woes. A senior administration officer said last year, floods had affected 1 lakh persons, of which around 60% were farmers. He added that the government had provided compensation worth Rs 33 crore to locals, as the district administration estimated that 60,000 acre crop was damaged in Jalandhar. This year, officials had demanded Rs 16 crore for Jalandhar and the remaining for Nawanshahr. “Due to shortage of funds, repair has not been done properly and material needed not used for several years,” said a government officer on the request of anonymity. According to the proposed project, sensitive points along the river including Lasara, Meonwal, Mau Sahib, Ismailpur, Jania, Butta ke Shanna village, Shole village, Raipur Ghujja village were where embankments needed to be strengthened. “The department has spent Rs 80 lakh in Nawanshahr to strengthen some bandhs by sand and stones alongside the river near Tajowal village. The remaining money has been used in Phillaur, Shahkot and Nakodar sub-divisions,” Vijay Kumar Garg, executive engineer and Phagwara drainage division officer, said. Manjinder Singh, a farmer of Mau Sahib village, who lost his two-acre crop last year, claimed, “The state government must allocate proper money for strengthening of crops, or a common man like us suffers. Last year, the government proved it did not care.” Last year, water had taken the longest to recede in Shahkot villages. This area alone had seen 25,000 acre of paddy fields completely submerged, with substantial damage at Phillaur and Gidderpindi villages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jalandhar-nawanshahr-seek-rs-36-cr-for-flood-control-state-gives-only-rs-3-cr/story-3ye3vcgU9XWoS3ixRfMY1N.html
29-07-2020||Pune||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray to visit Pune on Thursday to review Covid-19 situation||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray will visit Pune on Thursday to take stock of the coronavirus situation in the district, officials said.This will be Thackeray’s first visit to Pune ever since the coronavirus outbreak began.“The chief minister will visit Pune and take a review of the district’s Covid-19 response,” an official from the district administration said on Wednesday.Pune district so far has reported over 74,000 Covid-19 cases and 1,792 deaths, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-to-visit-pune-on-thursday-to-review-covid-19-situation/story-LynkmQ0DqQwJQEQkzRrbPN.html
29-07-2020||Pune||Kondhwa police arrest four for killing juvenile||The Kondhwa police have arrested four youths in connection with the brutal murder of a juvenile in conflict with law in Wanowrie on Tuesday over troubling a local shop vendor and allegedly passing information to the police about the activities of the accused arrested in the case. The youth was found murdered on July 10 near Heaven’s park society on July 10. The victim was bludgeoned to death with a stone by the accused and his corpse was buried under a heap of stones by the murderers. According to the police, the deceased was identified as Azan Zaheer Ansari (12), a juvenile in conflict with law who had criminal cases related to theft and other offences lodged against him under the relevant sections of the law. During the initial periods of investigation, his identity could not be ascertained by the police. Acting on a tip-off to police constable Kishore Wale, the detection branch team under the guidance of assistant police inspector (API) Chetan More got the information that the accused had taken the victim on a bike. Based on the input, API More and his team members arrested the three accused identified as Rohit Gautam Bansode ( 27), a resident of Undri, Ajay Vijay Gaikwad ( 22), a resident of Krishna Nagar in Mohammadwadi Srikant Bhimrao Sathe ( 20), a resident of Azadnagar in Wanowrie and Akshay Anil Jadhav Police inspector Vinayak Gaikwad, in charge of Kondhwa police station, said that a person identified as Rohan Ajit Singh and Rohit Bansode took the deceased from Golden Bakery to meet another accused identified as Satish Gaikwad. “The accused then sat for drinking and after that smashed Ansari’s head with a stone and escaped. The deceased was troubling a local small-time vendor for money and the accused also felt that Ansari was tipping the police authorities about their activities which made them suspicious about him after which they made up their mind and killed him as planned murder,” PI Gaikwad said. One more accused is still at large and detection branch is tracking the whereabouts of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/kondhwa-police-arrest-four-for-killing-juvenile/story-XmaSgnfHGRSiC55SBI0QhP.html
29-07-2020||Pune||Man kills live-in partner over suspected illicit affair||Suspecting an illicit affair, a man murdered the woman he was living with in Shirur, by slitting her neck on Sunday night. The deceased has been identified as Sarika Sudam Girmakar (30), while the accused has been identified as Dattatreya Genubhau Gaikwad (40). Both have been previously married but had left their spouses and were staying together for the past four years. According to Shirur police station in-charge Praveen Khanapure, the accused, after killing Sarika, presented himself before the police station and was subsequently arrested. Giramkar used to doubt her character and a heated exchange took place between them after which she was attacked and killed, PI Khanapure said. The police have booked the accused under IPC section 302 (murder) and further investigation is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/man-kills-live-in-partner-over-suspected-illicit-affair/story-9XpWQ2oFo1Wqd4Naz3dNtL.html
29-07-2020||Pune||Visually impaired thread path to self-sufficiency creating rakhis in Pune||For 12 visually impaired men and women and 70 others, inserting pearls in fancy threads to make rakhis is a prized skill they possess. For the last 10 years, the group has been making attractive rakhis for the Aastha rakhi centre in Chinchwad. All the rakhis at the centre are made by visually impaired and needy women. All products made in India are used for making rakhis and the shipment is transported across Maharashtra and major cities like Hyderabad. With the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic – the sales of rakhis are down by 50 per cent with the lockdown imposed for the past three months, however, the visually impaired have not stopped working. Raksha Bandhan that celebrates the brother-sister bond will be celebrated on August 3 this year. “We had given raw materials to make rakhis at their home to continue working in the lockdown. Our work was not disrupted in the lockdown since all these are handmade rakhis and all the visually impaired and domestic workers who work for our firm have a lot of creativity,” said Seema Kunkulol, managing director of Aastha rakhi centre, Chinchwad. The visually impaired begin by making boxes at the centre and slowly they have been taught how to make rakhis. “The visually impaired are blessed with sharp senses and memory, one needs to only teach them once on how a rakhi is made and after that they work with complete ease,” said Kunkulol. “The purpose of giving these people work was to give them job opportunities. For social causes, we run eye donation campaigns. Our motto is to promote eye donation,” Kunkulol added. Santosh Raut who has been working for seven years with Aastha rakhi centre is happy to handle the art and creativity for the rakhis, which are tied on a brother’s wrist on Raksha Bandhan. “In our group, few are college-going students while others are housewives who need to look after family work as well. Once we learn it, it is not difficult,” said Raut, who is also the general secretary of Maharashtra Drustihit Kalyani Sangh. All the visually impaired workers who are working with the rakhi centre are firm on earning money by working and not by charity. “We don’t want donations from people and instead we are looking for jobs. Visually impaired can excel in every sector if given proper opportunity,” added Raut. The 12 visually impaired began making rakhis in the month of November and their work schedule is 9am-9pm at the workshop. “Working at the rakhi centre supports us financially. I hope we can get more people who can support the visually impaired,” added Raut.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/visually-impaired-thread-path-to-self-sufficiency-creating-rakhis-in-pune/story-bOHVd4dhm0vqTVG4C2RHYN.html
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||25% PG seats vacant in Punjab medical colleges after second round of counselling||Faridkot: Of the 697 postgraduate seats in seven medical and 12 dental colleges of Punjab, 176 (25%) have been declared vacant by the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), Faridkot, after two rounds of online counselling. The second round of counselling for admissions to MD (doctor of medicine), MS (master of surgery), MDS (master of dental surgery) and diploma courses was completed by the university last week. BFUHS registrar Dr GC Ahir said there are 621 postgraduate seats of state quota in the state medical and dental colleges. Seventy-six PG seats of all-India quota were reverted to the state after two rounds of counselling by Medical Counselling Committee (MCC). The total vacant seats for MD/MS and diploma for the mop-up round of counselling in government medical colleges at Patiala (26), Amritsar (27) and Faridkot (18) is 71. The number of such seats is 64 in four private medical colleges, namely Sri Guru Ram Das Medical College (SGRDMC), Amritsar (20), Dayanand Medical College (DMC) (14), and Christian Medical College (CMC), both at Ludhiana (14), and Adesh Medical College, Bathinda (17). Three PGDSM seats at Netaji Subash National Institute of Sports, Patiala, were also declared vacant. Forty-one of the 135 MDS state quota seats are vacant in nine of the 12 dental colleges of the state after the two rounds. Thirty-six of the total 47 MD, MS and MDS seats under the NRI quota were merged in the general category after they remained vacant in two rounds of counselling. Of the 36 MS, MD seats in three private medical colleges, only 11 were filled. There was no taker for 11 MDS seats in eight dental colleges. The medical university has started the mop-up round of counselling for admissions to fill the vacant PG seats in state medical and dental colleges. The counselling for admissions to PG courses will be completed by July 31. VACANT SEAT TALLY21 seats of MD, anatomy 15 seats each of MD, community medicine and pharmacology 14 seats of MD, physiology 13 seats each of MD, biochemistry and microbiology||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/25-pg-seats-vacant-in-punjab-medical-colleges-after-second-round-of-counselling/story-HWFjItYQXkWYDBDXBWYqBP.html
29-07-2020||Kolkata||Forest Dept will undertake plantation drive along sea beach in Digha||The West Bengal Forest department will undertake a plantation drive along the sea beach in the popular tourist resort of Digha in Purba Medinipur district in collaboration with the local development authority, a senior minister said.Cyclone Amphan had uprooted a large number of trees in the coastal belt two months back.Forest minister Rajib Banerjee on Tuesday said sturdy trees, which are not easily uprooted during severe storms and which will go well with the soil character of the area, will be preferred for plantation while some of the felled trees will be replanted in the project which will be completed by this time in 2021.He said the project is being implemented in collaboration with Digha Development Authority.The tendering process of the plantation drive, which will be carried along around 2 km stretch in New Digha area, is nearing completion, an official said.Another forest official said apart from neem, arjun trees, coconut and areca nut and date palm will also be planted along the stretch which will start from Digha railway station.“Trained staff of the forest department will water the plants. The entire area will be further beautified in a year’s time,” the official said.Meanwhile, a drive to plant four lakh mangrove trees in Amphan-hit villages of Sunderbans began on Tuesday by an NGO Kolkata Society of Cultural Heritage which works for protecting the environment and people.“Till now we have planted over 12,000 mangroves and more than two lakh seeds are already being implanted in the local nurseries. We have collected about 6 lakh mangrove seeds so far,” a spokesman of the NGO said. PTI SUS RG RG||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/forest-dept-will-undertake-plantation-drive-along-sea-beach-in-digha/story-ZBn28WHr7Gwwvrk98aHdnN.html
29-07-2020||Pune||DIAT develops medical bed isolation system to combat Covid-19||Defence Institute of Advanced Technology (DIAT), Pune has developed ‘Aashray’, the medical bed isolation system to combat Covid-19 by minimizing the spread of the disease, PRO Defence, Pune said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThis is a low cost, reusable solution to maintain proper isolation of Covid-19 patients by creating suction /negative pressure near exhale, and further filtering and disinfecting the aerosol.Bed Isolation System envelopes are made up of specialized material and manufacturing process with transparent and translucent 7.5(l) x7(w) x6.5(h) ft3 size supported on medical grade materials structure. The product is modular and portable in design and can be suitable for different requirements such as institutional, hospitals and home/ individual quarantine.The envelope is reusable as it is antibacterial-antifungal and can be sanitized.Each envelope is capable of housing one set of bed, table and chair along with some walking space. The width of the envelope can be adjusted as per the availability of space. The envelope is opaque up to 3 ft from bottom to maintain the privacy of the patient.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/diat-develops-medical-bed-isolation-system-to-combat-covid-19/story-XEJWC75ku3liLTm0C7lHzO.html
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||All eyes on the sky, excitement in the air in Ambala as first batch of Rafale combat aircraft lands home||Ambala: It was all eyes on the sky and excitement in the air as Ambala welcomed the first batch of the five Rafale combat aircraft on Wednesday afternoon. It’s a proud day for every Indian but even more special for Ambala residents as Indian Air Force chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria received the fighter jets of the first Rafale squadron arriving from France via Abu Dhabi around 3pm. Once the five aircraft land in Ambala, the pilots led by 17 Golden Arrows Squadron commanding officer Group Captain Harkirat Singh, met the Air Chief and briefed him about their flying and training in France. The formal induction ceremony of the aircraft would be held later. VIGIL UP ON THE GROUNDMunish Sehgal, DSP (Traffic), Ambala, said the administration is on a high alert and the gathering of people on roofs and photography during landing has been strictly prohibited, particularly in Dhulkot, Baldev Nagar, Garnala and Panjkora villages adjoining the air base.DSP Ram Kumar said that the Ambala Cantt area has been made a ‘no-drone area’ as it is a sensitive zone. Action will be taken against those violating no-photography orders. Police made announcements and informed local residents not to gather on roofs or engage in photography between 10am and 5pm on Wednesday. Barricades were put up 3km from the air base and Section 144, which prohibits the assembly of four or more people, was imposed. The media was also kept at a distance. Residents organised a hawan (prayer) at a temple near the air base to welcome the Rafale combat aircraft in Ambala. “According to Hindu tradition, every holy task is initiated with a hawan, so we prayed for the successful landing of the aircraft,” Viresh Shandilya, a local resident, said.ONE OF THE OLDEST AIR BASES THAT WAS ATTACKED IN ‘65, ‘71 WARSThe Rafale fighter jets will be part of one of India’s oldest and strategic air bases in Ambala. The air base was established in 1919 and home to the Bristol Fighters of the 99 Squadron of the Royal Air Force. It became the headquarters of the Royal Air Force, India Command, in 1922 and was the flying instructors’ school from 1948-54. Located 220km from the Indo-Pak border, the base was attacked by Pakistan in the 1965 and 1971 wars. Last year, then IAF chief Air Chief Marshal BS Dhanoa resurrected the 17 Golden Arrows Squadron, which he commanded during the Kargil war in 1999. Marshal of the Indian Air Force the late Arjan Singh had also been in command of the Ambala air base as a group captain and so had Air Marshal Subroto Mukherjee, the first Indian commander-in-chief of the Air Force, when he was in charge of a squadron in Ambala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/all-eyes-on-the-sky-excitement-in-the-air-in-ambala-as-first-batch-of-rafale-combat-aircraft-lands-home/story-T2k8ojLxM4EOxH89V56UgO.html
29-07-2020||Delhi||Man rapes 23-year-old woman near Red Fort||A 23-year-old woman was allegedly raped by a man in a park near Red Fort in north Delhi, police said on Tuesday. The incident took place on Saturday and the accused has been arrested, they said. The man and the victim are vagabonds and they knew each other, a senior police officer said. On Saturday night, a person after spotting the woman, who was bleeding from her head, called the police control room. She was taken to a hospital where she told doctors about the incident, the officer said. The woman told police that the man raped her in the park and when she resisted, hit her with a stone, police said. She has also alleged that the man had kidnapped her daughter. However, police found the girl later, they said. “The incident took place on Saturday. A case was registered under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code at the Kotwali police station and the accused was arrested,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (north) Monika Bhardwaj said.The woman’s condition is stated to be stable, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-rapes-23-year-old-woman-near-red-fort/story-7mJUr5Qew33J4nNIXdo3hM.html
29-07-2020||Patna||Covid-19 death toll in Bihar reaches 269; infection tally climbs to 43,591||The Covid-19 tally in Bihar shot up by 2,480 on Tuesday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 43,591, while the death toll mounted to 269, the state health department said here. The department, however, said the surge in the number of infections was on account of previous days’ cases which were added to the system on Tuesday.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage The state reported 14 fresh deaths, taking the count of fatalities to 269. The new principal secretary of the Health department, Pratayaya Amrit, took charge during the day. He swung into action and was seen visiting Covid-19 wards at the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) here in a PPE kit. The Bihar government had on Monday removed incumbent Principal Secretary, Health, Uday Singh Kumawat. Amrit, a 1991-batch IAS officer, is the third to occupy the position since Covid-19 ripped through the state. Among the new casualties, three deaths each were reported from Nalanda and Gaya, followed by two each in Patna and Begusarai, while one death each was confirmed from Aurangabad, Munger, Nawada and Lakhisarai, the department said in its bulletin. Patna has, so far, recorded the highest number of 41 Covid-19 deaths. Districts which have reported more than 10 deaths are Bhagalpur (26), Gaya (17), Nalanda (15), Rohtas (13), Muzaffarpur, Munger (11 each), Darbhanga, Begusarai and Samastipur (10 each). State capital Patna also tops the list in terms of number of confirmed cases at 7,481. Its tally shot up by more than 414 since the previous day. Other badly affected districts include Bhagalpur (2,335 cases), Muzaffarpur (1,943), Gaya (1,819), Nalanda (1,745), Rohtas (1,695), Begusarai (1,497) and Siwan (1,341). Recovery rate in the state was 67.03 per cent. Out of 43,591 positive cases, 29,220 people have recovered, 1,376 of them since Monday. Besides, there are 14,101 active cases in the state. The number of tests has increased to 16,275 from Monday’s 14,236, while the total number of samples tested till date was 4.86 lakh. Meanwhile, Patna Divisional Commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said Covid testing facility has been made available at all primary health centres of six districts falling under the division. The number of tests has increased to 5,970 from 2,400 in just a week’s time, he said, while asking the district magistrates to maintain the progress. Agarwal and Patna District Magistrate Kumar Ravi inaugurated a home isolation control room at the district registration and counselling centre here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/covid-19-death-toll-in-bihar-reaches-269-infection-tally-climbs-to-43-591/story-fa0Jl4FMct2vKDSkNY65cM.html
29-07-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand reports highest single-day spike of 686 Covid-19 cases||Jharkhand on Tuesday reported its highest single-day spike in new cases with 686 persons testing positive, taking the state’s tally to 9,563, as per a government bulletin.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageA Covid-19 patient from Hazaribagh also died during the day, following which the state’s toll rose to 94, it said.There are 5,485 active cases in the state at present.Total 179 patients recovered from Covid-19 during the day. So far, the state has recorded 3,984 recoveries.Jharkhands mortality rate is at 0.98 per cent, while the recovery rate is 41.66 per cent, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-reports-highest-single-day-spike-of-686-covid-19-cases/story-NxovVlJpEUFvy3y12HEgPK.html
29-07-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand police official accused of slapping woman to be booked||After the order of Chief Minister Hemant Soren in the case related to the slapping of a woman by a police officer in Sahibganj district’s Barhait police station, the investigation report of police station in-charge has come where it has been directed that the accused inspector be booked.“Based on the report, it has been directed to register a criminal case against accused inspector Harish Pathak and arrange a speedy trial for the same. Jharkhand Police is always with the public and with the public,” Jharkhand DGP MV Rao said.DGP Rao further said, “The CM took cognisance of the matter and the concerned officer was suspended. A team under the supervision of Deputy Superintendent was formed to investigate the matter. We have just received the investigation report. In light of it, we have decided to register criminal case against the officer. Indecent gestures/behaviour towards women or teasing will be dealt with seriously. Whoever commits it, will face the law and stringent action.”The video showed a woman who was slapped and abused by the SHO at Barhait police station.The woman was reportedly from the Dalit community and was at the police station in a case related to love marriage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-police-official-accused-of-slapping-woman-to-be-booked/story-B7QpUavRBqga7KcbRcyvbM.html
29-07-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: The return of Pappu summary||He’s shining bright.Pappu is wearing trousers whose bright shade is difficult to determine—is it some sort of brown or mustard colour, or brownish-mustard, or something else entirely. Doesn’t matter. The pants are very attractive but they are outshone by his fluorescent orange shirt printed with the title of a Hindi film rap song—Apna time aayega (My time will come). The sleeves have “TikTok TikTok” running along their length.“These are new clothes, I bought them just yesterday,” he says, blushing. The only old thing he’s wearing is his checked gamchha, that he has stylishly knotted about his pants like a loose belt.Pappu is a daily-wage labourer and this morning he is walking through a central Delhi market, on his way to a building contractor who owes him ₹4,000.“And there’s another person in Gurgaon who has to pay me ₹5,000 for the work I did some months ago. I’ll have to go there later this week.”In the pre-corona days too, builders and contractors would occasionally delay paying their workforce, Pappu informs. “But this tendency has recently started to become more common.” He blames it on the extraordinary situation triggered by the coronavirus pandemic. “There is less money in the market, haalaat (conditions) are not good, and contractors don’t have much cash at hand.”Whatever, he is refusing to be patient any longer—“I’ll soon be leaving for home.” Pappu reveals his plan with a big smile, referring to his native place in Madhya Pradesh. In his late 20s, he has been in Delhi for about a decade “but it’s tough to find work these days... so I’m going back to my village.”Pappu’s family includes his father, and his brother and sister-in-law. “I got the new clothes because I want to look nice when I meet my people.”He shopped for them the day before in Sadar Bazaar. “The pants came for ₹200 and the shirt was more expensive, at ₹250.” The last time he had bought new pant-shirt was two months ago “but they are in tattered condition... I was using them as my work clothes.”Pappu doesn’t plan to spoil the new dress, and is putting it on just for today “for masti (fun)”. He will wear them next only for his journey home though he isn’t sure of the exact date of the return. “It will be as soon as I get all my dues.” He plans to stay in the village for the next few months, working in his family’s agricultural field. “We get enough produce from our land to feed ourselves well.”If so, why has he been living in smoggy Delhi, working as a labourer and sleeping on the pavement?Pappu’s face becomes sombre, maybe he is gathering his thoughts. “A family can live for generations in the same village, following the same line of work… but if even just one family member goes to a city for work, then other younger people in the family get the opportunity to do something else.”But now Pappu really has to hurry to meet the contractor. He excuses himself and merges into the street crowd ahead, his dress keeping him identifiable for a long time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-return-of-pappu-summary/story-rYh1KmATtXQUHr4WNIoUKP.html
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||Additional 25,000 MT waste to be dumped at Dadumajra site in Chandigarh||Even as waste processing at the Dadumajra dumping site is yet to pick up speed, the municipal corporation is now planning to dump an additional 25,000 metric tonnes (MT) of legacy waste here.Legacy wastes are the wastes that have been collected and kept for years at some barren land or a place dedicated for landfill (an area to dump solid waste).The MC took over the plant from Jaypee group on June 19 and has been running it since. The MC had signed an agreement with Jaypee in 2005 for setting up a garbage processing plant, but in February this year, the MC General House had ordered a takeover because it observed that the plant was not being operated to its optimum capacity.In the aftermath of that decision, the MC officials now say that 25,000 MT waste will be dumped at the plant. “The shifting of the dumped legacy waste has to be done so that the waste processing plant could be run properly. We will shift the legacy waste to the dumping site in phases so that it will not burden the removal process,” said a senior MC official. Nearly 5 lakh MT legacy waste is being processed at the dumping site.In addition to legacy waste, the MC is also planning to remove large quantities of compost and refuse-derived fuel (RDF) from the plant. “It is harming the processing of waste at the plant because of paucity of space,” the official said.The compost and RDF, for immediately clearing it, will be sold at the rates at which the company was earlier selling it. Meanwhile, revised rates will be decided and sold through e-auction. “There are also plans to sell compost generated at the plant itself and also at a counter at MC office in Sector 17. MC’s horticulture wing will also use it. MC is also exploring the option of home delivery,” added the official.The MC will also get repaired all the machinery at the plant for effective functioning. The plant was set up in 2008 to process 500 tonnes of garbage per day, but was only processing 100 MT per day.As per the recommendations made by the National Institute of Technical Teachers Training and Research (NITTTR), the municipal solid waste processing facility requires a complete replacement of the machinery with new technology for operating efficiently.The NITTTR report submitted with the MC commissioner blamed the poor maintenance of the plant for its present condition. The MC plans for improving the plant’s working will be taken up in the July 30 MC General House meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/additional-25-000-mt-waste-to-be-dumped-at-dadumajra-site-in-chandigarh/story-niXnXwF4y6QEe17lHWUvHK.html
29-07-2020||City||Covid-19 slows down police work in Ludhiana||A day after 20 police personnel tested positive for coronavirus, public dealing at the office of police commissioner and the police stations in division numbers 3 and 8 remained suspended on Tuesday.Investigation in many cases was delayed as police showed reluctance in calling on people connected to cases for questioning or recording their statements.The office of the commissioner of police wore a deserted look as people were barred from entering and were asked instead to send their complaints on e-mail. Sanitisation of the police stations of division number 3 and 8 was underway.Inspector Jarnail Singh, SHO at police station, division number 8, said everyone reported to duty according as per routine. Duties were performed and checkpoints were laid, he said, adding that no public dealings were entertained.He added that the only entry of locals was barred for three days, but the police were available 24 hours and could be contacted anytime in case of emergency.Inspector Satish Kumar, SHO at police station, division number 3, was quarantined after he tested positive for Covid-19. The main gate of the police station was kept closed to deter entry of people. However, the wicket gate was opened for police personnel.Police said that routine work was affected. They could not call people to the station for investigation, questioning or recording statements.Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal said most of the personnel were asymptomatic and were recovering quickly. He added that the people could send their complaints via e-mail at cp.ldh.police@punjab.gov.in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-slows-down-police-work-in-ludhiana/story-3irfnToO1fB0GtYJKMkWIM.html
29-07-2020||City||Vigilance Bureau seeks action on report over ‘substandard’ construction of roads in Ludhiana||Acting on a complaint into the alleged use of sub-standard material by the contractors in the construction of roads/streets in 13 areas of the city, the Vigilance Bureau (VB) has directed the additional chief secretary (ACS) of local bodies department to take action in the matter.In a letter written to the ACS on Monday, the VB has also sought a report on any action taken in this regard.Earlier on July 9, an RTI activist Rohit Sabharal had filed a complaint with the VB seeking an inquiry into the matter as few samples collected by the municipal corporation (MC) of the roads had failed the quality test. Sabharal had sought inquiry into the construction of roads/streets in I-block of BRS Nagar; Mohalla Guru Gobind Singh Nagar and Basant Nagar main road; Bharat Nagar chowk to Session chowk; installation of interlocking tiles in Punjabi Bagh area; Satkar Nagar, Moti Bagh and New Ramesh Nagar in ward number 8; Kot Mangal Singh and Gurpal Nagar in ward number 71; overlock road in ward 51; Lodhi Enclave in ward 58; Madhopuri; streets of ward number 53; Mohalla New Subhash Nagar in ward number 5; and Prem Vihar in ward number 4. As per the MC officials, as many as 17 samples were collected to check the quality of recently carpeted roads. Seven samples collected from Amantran Colony, Guru Vihar, Chander Nagar, Bal Singh Nagar Road, Ashok Nagar, Daba Road and a road near GNE College (towards Dugri) failed the test.Earlier the samples collected from a stretch near RK Road, Circular Road near Daresi Ground and Baba Mukand Singh Nagar had also failed the test. Samples of interlocking tiles collected from Sewakpura area had also failed the test. In the month of June, too, VB had asked the local bodies department to act on a complaint filed by the RTI activist in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vigilance-bureau-seeks-action-on-report-over-substandard-construction-of-roads-in-ludhiana/story-R16Fj7nArXTD40n4YqQGAP.html
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||Dera Baba Nanak ‘giant’ Princepal Singh makes it to NBA G-league||Five years back, Princepal Singh had no idea about basketball. His only exposure to the sporting world was confined to volleyball --- as it’s quite popular at his native place Dera Baba Nanak in Gurdaspur --- and athletics. But it was his towering persona (six feet five inches) that changed his destiny at the age of 14. Now 19, and standing six feet 10 inches tall, he is the new poster boy of the Indian basketball. A product of Ludhiana Basketball Academy, Princepal has signed to play in the NBA G-league, the National Basketball Association’s official minor league in 2020-21. He will train and compete alongside the new G League team featuring elite youth prospects. “We are thrilled to be able to offer Princepal the opportunity to begin his professional basketball journey in the NBA G-league,” said Shareef Abdur-Rahim, league president, on Tuesday. “It’s a dream come true. For the last three years, I was really training hard for this day. My ultimate aim is to play in the main NBA league. G-league will serve as a platform for me to make it to the biggest league of the sport,” says Princepal. “The Ludhiana Basketball Academy groomed me as a player and later my selection at the NBA Global academy in Australia (in 2018) helped me to prepare for the bigger leagues,” he adds. Princepal was first spotted by Punjab politician Lakhbir Singh Lodhinangal, who got the boy enrolled into the Ludhiana Basketball Academy. “I had no clue about the game. Coach Jaipal took me under his wings and that changed everything,” says Princepal, whose father is a cashier in the power department. “I’m thankful to my family members as they extended all their support and motivated me to pursue my career in sports,” adds Princepal who passed the 12th board exams with 65 % marks this year. Princepal was first picked in the Under-16 Indian team in 2017. After Satnam Singh Bhamara and Amjyot Singh, Princepal is the third Indian to play in the NBA G-league. All three are the products of the Ludhiana Basketball Academy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dera-baba-nanak-giant-princepal-singh-makes-it-to-nba-g-league/story-NFmhrGLaJEUrfzVOd28chK.html
29-07-2020||Mumbai||Disclosing names of Covid-19 patients puts them at risk of victimisation: Bombay HC||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday observed that there was a risk of ostracising Covid-19 patients if their names were disclosed, as demanded by two public interest litigants.“What purpose will be served by disclosing the names?” asked the bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Sarang Kotwal, during the course of hearing on the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by law student Vaishnavi Gholave and farmer Mahesh Gadekar.In the PIL filed through advocate Vinod Sangvikar, the two petitioners contended that on several occasions, Covid-19 patients are unable to recognise and give complete information about the people they had come in contact with. This, they said, makes contact tracing an arduous task, and many possible cases fall through the cracks.The litigants cited the example of a Covid-positive meat seller from Muraji Peth in Solapur who had come in contact with around 1,000 people.“However, the meat seller didn’t know all his customers’ names or their whereabouts,” the plea stated.It added that since there are about 25 meat sellers in Muraji Peth, and since the name of the infected meat seller was not disclosed, people did not know whether they had exposed themselves to the SARS-CoV-2 virus, which causes Covid-19.The plea expressed concerns about the growing risk of community transmission, and argued that it is necessary to disclose the names of Covid-19 patients in a bid to make contact tracing easier and improve the chances of early detection.The PIL cited that Maharashtra has been reporting a surge in Covid-19 positive cases even though the state government is maintaining that community transmission has not occurred yet.Arguing on behalf of the central government, additional solicitor general Anil Singh opposed the PIL. He pointed out that four high courts have already dismissed similar petitions, and therefore the HC should not entertain the PIL.The bench, however, posted the PIL for further hearing on Friday after Sangvikar sought time to go through the judgments. The court said that it was more important to practice personal safety. “Try to avoid congregations, wear face masks and head shields... This is what is advocated to stay safe from the infection,” the bench said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/disclosing-names-of-covid-19-patients-puts-them-at-risk-of-victimisation-hc/story-LEzFfBLwi8voSXa7UOYeCP.html
29-07-2020||Mumbai||State differs monsoon session of Maharashtra legislature to September 7||The monsoon session of the Maharashtra legislature has been postponed once again for more than a month. It is now expected to start on September 7. The decision was taken in a meeting of the business advisory committee (BAC) of the state legislature on Tuesday.The session was supposed to start from August 3 as decided in the previous BAC meeting held on June 10.BAC, which comprises chairman of the legislative Council Ramraje Naik Nimbalkar, speaker of the Assembly Nana Patole, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and leaders of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis and Pravin Darekar, decided to postpone the session by five weeks.“Considering the Covid-19 situation, the committee decided to postpone the session until September 7. Other details such as the period of the session, etc, have not yet to be finalised,” said Anil Parab, state parliamentary affairs minister, following the meeting.Generally, the monsoon session is held for two to three weeks, but this time, it would depend on the pandemic situation in the state. “Other details will be decided in another BAC meeting likely to be called eight to 10 days before the session begins,” said an official from the state legislature.This is the second time the session has been postponed. It was scheduled to start on June 22 but was postponed to August 3 owing to the lockdown restrictions.As an alternative, the state also has plans to conduct the session online, for which demonstrations from firms such as Cisco, Google, Microsoft, Blue Jeans, and Alcatel that provide videoconference platforms, have been taken. With the facility in place, legislators will not have to participate physically and can attend the proceedings through their computers and smartphones.“The BAC is yet to decide on holding the session online,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-differs-monsoon-session-of-maharashtra-legislature-to-september-7/story-rySpdVTo0CxjUHKDOLFLqI.html
29-07-2020||Mumbai||57% from slums in 3 wards have Covid-19 antibodies, finds BMC’s sero survey||A total of 57% individuals from slums and 16% from other residential areas in three wards were exposed to Sars-CoV-2 and recovered silently owing to the antibodies produced, the sero survey conducted by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, as part of the national study to understand the spread, has found. Individuals in both these groups were asymptomatic. “Overall, we have observed that 40% of those surveyed, in both slums and residential areas, were infected with Covid-19, but recovered. None of those tested for sero survey had to undergo RT-PCR test, as they were asymptomatic,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC. “The prevalence of the virus in slums is high due to densely populated areas. In non-slums (residential areas), better social distancing and maintenance of hygiene helped stop the spread to a large number of people,” said Kakani.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageOn July 3, the civic body, in collaboration with NITI-Aayog and Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, started sero surveillance, in which a group of individuals undergo blood tests to detect the presence of Immunoglobulin-G (IgG) antibodies. IgG antibodies are produced by the body’s immune system on being exposed to a virus. A sero survey helps identify individuals who were previously infected with the virus and have now recovered. Although the estimated target was 10,000 blood samples, the ongoing monsoon restricted the collection process to 6,936 samples, said a health officer from BMC. The civic body has also run an antibody test on 1,000 health workers, results of which are pending. Also read | ‘Major relief after 3 months’: Aaditya Thackeray shares good news on Mumbai’s Covid-19 situationBMC officials believe the infection fatality rate (IFR) is likely to be low, between 0.05% and 0.10%. The civic body did not divulge the estimated prevalence of infection. IFR is the ratio of the number of deaths that occur from a disease in the total number of infected people. It is lower than CFR, which considers only confirmed cases (see box). “Results of the sero surveillance are promising because it shows that a large number of people have recovered from the virus with the help of their own immunity,” said Dr Om Srivastava, epidemiologist and member of the state’s Covid task force. The results will be re-evaluated later to learn about development of herd immunity, when a large portion of a community (the herd) becomes immune to a disease, controlling its transmission and spread. “Although it is still unclear what level of prevalence leads to herd immunity, our findings indicate that at least in slums, this could be attained sooner than later, if the immunity exists and persists in a significant proportion of the population,” read the interpretations of BMC. Dr Srivastava overruled the possibility, as the antibodies produced in the body are not permanent. “Antibodies stay in the body from four weeks to a few months depending on the infection. Depending on single data set, we can’t say that we have reached herd immunity. It is not a representative sample to come to any scientific conclusion,” he said. While 60% patients diagnosed with Covid-19 have been male, the survey revealed a greater number of women than men were exposed to the virus and recovered. The civic body did not share data on the proportion of male-female samples. “It is a known fact that women have stronger immunity than men. This helps them to fight the virus better. Most women don’t even develop symptoms to get identified with the virus,” said Dr Daksha Shah, deputy health officer, BMC. BMC will conduct another sero surveillance next month in the same three wards for a comparative study to gauge the spread of Covid-19 infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/57-from-slums-in-3-wards-have-covid-antibodies-finds-bmc-s-sero-survey/story-sRkB0x9dJN4GkoMr0jDGaM.html
29-07-2020||Mumbai||Can’t shift control of Sarthi without Congress leader’s approval: Ashok Chavan||The Congress party in Maharashtra has raised objections over the government’s decision to divest control of Sarthi (Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj Research, Training and Human Development Institute) – the institute established for educational, social and financial development of the community – from the Bahujan Kalyan department which is headed by Congress leader Vijay Wadettiwar. After leaders from the Maratha community demanded increase in funding and autonomy for Sarthi, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar had two weeks ago announced that the body would be under the planning department, headed by him. “The structure of power-sharing among the three parties was finalised while forming the government eight months ago. Accordingly, Sarthi’s administration is under the department headed by Vijay Wadettiwar. Divesting the power is the decision to be taken by the chief minister (CM) in consultation with the party involved. Though Wadettiwar had admitted the shift of control of Sarthi, we expect the issue to be discussed with Congress’s legislative party leader Balasaheb Thorat before any such decision is made,” said Congress leader Ashok Chavan.The party had earlier objected to the formation of an infrastructure board in Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC), which is part of the public works department (PWD), headed by Chavan. Incidentally, the corporation is under the charge of Shiv Sena minister Eknath Shinde.Chavan had raised objections to the formation of a separate board for the implementation of infrastructure projects under MSRDC. “We had issues with officers moving proposals without knowledge of the minister of the department. Nationalist Congress Party’s (NCP) Chhagan Bhujbal too had raised dissent over such a move in the past. We have discussed these issues with the CM and with the change in guards in the chief secretary’s office, these issues will be sorted out now,” he said.These are not very big issues and the CM is capable of resolving them. There are instances when the CM had generously given a couple of portfolios from Sena’s quota to alliance partners during the formation of the government,” said a senior Sena functionary. Sanjay Tatkare, NCP spokesperson, said, “There is a coordination committee of senior leaders from all three ruling parties. Ashok Chavan is part of it. These issues are sorted out amicably by the committee.”Chavan, who addressed a press conference on Tuesday, said that state government has represented the Maratha community in the reservation case during hearings in the Supreme Court (SC) with full strength.Referring to the leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis’s criticism of the government’s submission before the Apex court, Chavan said that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is spreading lies related to the Maratha reservation case, to mislead the community. “SC has asked us to maintain the status quo over the recruitments till further orders are passed. This does not mean that it is a stay on the reservation. The status quo on recruitment was maintained during the Fadanvis government too in Dec 2018, on the orders of the Bombay high court,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/can-t-shift-control-of-sarthi-without-congress-leader-s-approval-ashok-chavan/story-phexwjcXs9439R7j16LrTL.html
29-07-2020||Mumbai||Only statutory dues can be deducted from accident claims: Bombay HC||The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) last week observed that no other amount except statutory dues are allowed to be deducted while computing the compensation for motor accident claims. “It is well-settled that except the statutory deduction to be made towards income tax, professional tax, no other deduction is permissible under law. The deduction from salary of the deceased towards insurance, pensionary benefits, gratuity or grant of employment to kin of deceased is not permissible,” said justice VL Achliya, while hearing an appeal filed by an Ahmednagar resident. The appellant had challenged an order passed by the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal, Ahmednagar, in December 2011, granting only ₹9-lakh compensation to her and her aged in-laws on the account of her husband’s death in an accident. The appellant claimed that the accident took place on June 2, 2007, barely three months after her marriage, while the couple was travelling from Pune to Ahmednagar. Her husband, a sepoy in Indian Army, was riding a bike, while she was seated pillion. When the couple reached near Kamargaon village, a state transport corporation bus hit their bike and the two-wheeler was thrown off the road. The woman’s husband died owing to a severe head injury, while she also sustained severe injuries. The woman later filed a motor accident claim, claiming compensation of ₹15.5 lakh from Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC), which owned the bus. After the tribunal’s decision to compensate her with ₹9 lakh, she moved HC in 2012 seeking enhancement in compensation. Her counsel pointed out that the tribunal had wrongly deducted the amount of pension being received by the appellant from her claim, and this reduced the amount of compensation to be received by her. HC accepted the argument presented by the woman’s counsel. Justice Achliya found that the assessment of compensation made by the tribunal was against the settled position in law, and held that the woman was entitled to ₹23.52 lakh as compensation, of which 50% will be paid to her, while the remaining half to her parents-in-law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/only-statutory-dues-can-be-deducted-from-accident-claims-bombay-hc/story-rodX8LZAk5xyJhFDwqiw7I.html
29-07-2020||City||Waive off unjustified power bills or MNS will be forced to intervene, Raj Thackeray tells cousin and Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray has warned his cousin and chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray to rein in electricity companies which are sending exorbitant bills to citizens or else his party will be compelled to intervene in the issue.Raj Thackeray has asked the CM to intervene urgently in the matter and waive off the unreasonable hike in the bills as neither MNS nor the citizens will “tolerate the injustice”. Raj said that the bills issued by various power companies such as BEST (Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport) and Mahavitaran (Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited) as well as private entities have shocked the consumers, who are facing the brunt of the Covid-19 outbreak. “This tantamounts to looting of citizens. Due to the lockdown, commercial places were closed and yet the bills issued for them are exorbitant. As it is this lockdown has drained the economy and many businesses have shut down. Salaries are either not given or there are huge pay cuts. People have lost their jobs, and in such an atmosphere of turbulence, where there is no ray of hope in sight, these unreasonable bills are a further attack on the vulnerable citizens,” said Raj Thackeray in his letter to his cousin.The letter is seen as the warning as despite its depleted strength, the MNS still holds relevance in some urban pockets. Raj Thackeray is also seen to be raking in the issue to garner the support of citizens who are infuriated owing to the exorbitant bills.“The state should issue an order regarding this issue to Mahavitaran and BEST and other government undertakings. Also, private electric companies need to be firmly directed to stop this unjustified conduct, otherwise we will be compelled to deal with them,” he warned in the letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/waive-off-unjustified-power-bills-or-mns-will-be-forced-to-intervene-raj-thackeray-tells-cousin-and-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray/story-XaflSlufU5oNJM1wjngUAP.html
29-07-2020||Mumbai||2 steal 100kg butter, cheese from pav bhaji joint, held||The Azad Maidan police on Sunday arrested two men for breaking into one of the Mumbai’s popular pav bhaji joints at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and stealing 100kg butter and cheese. Located opposite Brihanmumbai Municipal corporation (BMC) headquarters Cannon pav bhaji joint is popular among the tourists and foodies.In his complaint to Azad Maidan police, the owner PN Dandekar, a resident of Haj House area, said that three days ago he received a call from a person informing him about the theft at his store.When Dandekar visited the store, which has been shut since March due to lockdown, he found that someone had entered the store from a rare side of the store by breaking the grills. When HT contacted Dandekar, he did not respond to calls.According to the police, a preliminary probe revealed that two suspects had brought a tempo and stole 80kg, butter, 20kg cheese, sugar bags and utensils worth ₹1 lakh from the store.During an inquiry, names of two local pavement dwellers cropped up, following which Santosh Thapa, 20, and Karan Jadhav, 25, were arrested on Sunday.“The two are local footpath dwellers and sell scrap for a living. They told us that due to lockdown they had no work and food. We are trying to recover the utensils,” said a police inspector requesting anonymity.The two have been booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code. A city court has remanded them in police custody till July 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-steal-100kg-butter-cheese-from-pav-bhaji-joint-held/story-YJzOJSP8TcRRCmivs5BbGL.html
29-07-2020||Mumbai||Metro Bhavan hearings starts from Tuesday||The town planning department of the state government initiated online public hearings for the proposed Metro Bhavan at Aarey on Tuesday. The state had received 2,563 suggestions/objections on the changing the land-use for 2.03 hectares of land in 2019. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) has planned a central operation and control centre on the two hectare plot in Aarey. The basement plus 27 floor building will be built at a cost of ₹1,033 crores.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/metro-bhavan-hearings-starts-from-tuesday/story-OOoYY3RDedD3DBu5FjI6sO.html
29-07-2020||Mumbai||200 PG seats in government medical, dental colleges may go vacant: Experts||After months of delay, the state common entrance test (CET) cell on Sunday night, released the second and final mop-up round seat allotment list for postgraduate (PG) medical and dental students. However, the educational experts are now worried that at least 200 seats in the state government colleges are likely to go vacant due to the delay.The experts believe that many applicants confirmed their seats in colleges in other states because of the delay in conducting admissions for PG seats in Maharashtra. “This year, of the total 1,170 seats in the government colleges, around 200 seats are likely to go vacant in the state. Every year, 50-60 seats in PG medical seats go vacant. While the private institutes can allot these seats after common admissions process ends, government colleges are left with vacant seats. At a time when we need doctors, the least CET cell could have done was tweak the rules, keeping Covid-19 situation in mind,” said Muzaffar Khan, a Thane-based medical education counsellor.Moreover, these students were not allowed to withdraw their applications through Maharashtra common admission rounds, therefore, names of many students that appeared in the final mop-up round, were of students whose admissions have already been confirmed elsewhere.“Registrations for PG medical and dental admissions in Maharashtra started in March, but the seat allotment started only in May. By then many students opted for seats through the all India quota (AIQ) or other quotas in different states and secured admissions. Now towards the end of the process, the CET cell has not allowed any student’s request to withdraw from the admissions process and our names have once again appeared on the list,” said an applicant on condition of anonymity. She added that several students had also approached the CET cell asking for an exception to be made considering the circumstances this year, but received no response in return.Registrations to postgraduate medical courses started in March, but with growing cases of Covid-19 and the eventual nation-wide lockdown, the Medical Council of India, in its circular in March had clarified that while online registrations have ended, aspirants could finish the form filling process online, till March 26. However, the first merit list which was originally scheduled to be released on April 4 could not be released until the May end.“This was an unnecessary round because most students have already confirmed admissions in other states. They have also informed the CET cell about the same. Now these students fear a fine from the government, and as per rule, if a student does not accept a seat allotted in CET rounds, s/he is liable to pay as much as ₹20 lakh to the government,” added Khan. State CET cell commissioner Sandeep Kadam told HT that even though students had approached the cell to remove their names from the admissions process, the same was not possible. “As per rules, applicants cannot withdraw their names from the admissions process before the mop-up round begins,” said Kadam. However, he refused to divulge any details on how many such names have been allotted seats on the final round.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/200-pg-seats-in-government-medical-dental-colleges-may-go-vacant-experts/story-gRzt1UDXvqXPfziOkbZeTN.html
29-07-2020||City||Sikh man’s car vandalised with hateful message in Florida||Florida A Sikh community leader in Oviedo city of US’ Florida had a hateful message spray-painted on his son’s car at his home.Amit Pal Singh, chairman of the Sikh Society of Central Florida, had the expletive message written in paint on his son’s car while it was parked in front of his house in the Oviedo area on July 25, according to media reports.United Sikhs, a civil rights and humanitarian non-profit organisation, condemned the assault and urged law enforcement agencies to take swift and direct action against all perpetrators.“Over the past few decades, instances of bullying, violence and hate crimes have been common for Sikhs across the United States. The community, because of its visible identity, has had to face routine injustice and has been targeted for their distinct appearance,” United Sikh said in a statement.“These instances have especially been prevalent recently due to the racial animus and economic uncertainty which has gripped the nation,” it addedIn a recent incident, the United Sikh said that Singh was a “victim of hate language” sprayed across his car on July 25.“Alarmingly, he was targeted at his home as assailants vandalised his personal vehicle with a racist message in an effort to intimidate and ostracise him. United Sikhs stand firmly with and are representing Singh to ensure that justice prevails,” the statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sikh-man-s-car-vandalised-with-hateful-message-in-florida/story-OUl3Ly2kNlYVuzV3kuDKCN.html
29-07-2020||City||RPF, MSF staff saves passenger who slips between platform and track||A 52-year-old passenger who tried to get down the moving Pawan Express train was saved by on duty railway protection force (RPF) staffer Kavita Sahu and Maharashtra security force (MSF) staffer Somnath Mahajan at Kalyan station, on Tuesday afternoon. The man Dilip Mandge along with his son had boarded the wrong train. Mandge, slipped into the gap between the train and the platform while he was deboarding the train. The RPF and MSF personnel pulled him out. The entire incident was caught in the CCTV camera. “The passenger received minor injuries but was stable. He was asked for medical assistance, but he refused to it. However, we helped him board Kamayani Express. They were panicked after the incident,” said Somnath Mahajan, MSF staff. “They were supposed to board Kamayani Express, however he boarded Pawan Express by mistake. As soon as he realised it, he tried getting down along with his son. The son fell on the platform, while the man slipped into the gap. We managed to pull him out immediately,” said Kavita Sahu, sub-inspector, RPF, Kalyan railway station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rpf-msf-staff-saves-passenger-who-slips-between-platform-and-track/story-y4IU97GFIGslnXDukqm7lO.html
29-07-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC rejects GN Saibaba’s plea for temporary bail||The Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court on Tuesday rejected application filed by Gokalkonda Naga Saibaba, former Delhi University professor, who is serving a life sentence for his links with Maoists, seeking temporary bail for 45 days. In March 2017, a special court has convicted Saibaba under sections 13 and 18 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 for his Maoists links, and sentenced him to life imprisonment.He had filed an application seeking temporary bail primarily in view of the spread of Covid-19 pandemic in Nagpur central prison where he is presently lodged, and mainly on the ground of his deteriorating health.It was argued on his behalf that the former DU professor suffers from various ailments which can be termed as co-morbidities and due to initiation of the lockdown the applicant was unable to receive various medicines which were being supplied by his family members and well-wishers.In the light of the fact that staff in the jail, as well as some inmates, had tested positive for Covid-19, there was every likelihood of Saibaba getting infected, his lawyer added and urged HC to grant him temporary bail considering his medical condition and also the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic in the jail.The application was opposed by a special prosecutor appearing for the state. He pointed out that all care and due precautions were being taken by the jail authorities in the light of the spread of Covid-19. He added that Saibaba has been placed in a high-security cell in a separate wing, the inmates of which are not allowed to mix with other inmates. Besides, he added that Saibaba was tested for COVID-19 infection and his test results were negative.The bench of justice AS Chandurkar and justice Amit Borkar accepted the prosecutor’s contention.“Though the applicant suffers from various ailments, in the light of the fact that he has been kept in a separate high security cell and there is no contact or communication between the inmates of the wing in which he is kept with the inmates of the other wings, we do not find any ground made out to release the applicant on temporary bail due to outbreak of the pandemic,” they said while rejecting the former DU professor’s plea for temporary bail.The bench said while arriving at the conclusion it also took into consideration the nature of accusations against Saibaba, his conviction by the sessions court and rejection of his application for suspension of sentence by HC in March 2019.As regards the claim of worsening condition of the convict, the bench said nothing was brought on record except listing the purported ailments which the former DU professor suffered from.HC has, however, directed the jail authorities to expeditiously decide his fresh application for parole leave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-rejects-gn-saibaba-s-plea-for-temporary-bail/story-ELdWAk7m4JyLfwUA3yQIIO.html
29-07-2020||Mumbai||33-year-old Mumbai man arrested for sexually assaulting niece, impregnating her||Ghatkopar police arrested a 33-year-old man last week for allegedly repeatedly sexually assaulting his minor niece in March and impregnating her. The incident came to light on July 23 after the 16-year-old survivor experienced stomach pain and was taken for a check-up. The doctor told her parents that the girl was pregnant. Her parents called the police and informed them that their daughter was sexually assaulted by an unknown person. “The girl told us that her uncle used to visit her house often. We then questioned the accused and he revealed the truth,” said an officer from Ghatkopar police station. The police again spoke to the girl and she said that her uncle sexually assaulted her between March 7 and 16, when her parents were not at home. He also threatened her, owing to which she did not tell anyone about the incident. Following the victim’s complaint, the police registered an offence for rape under Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sexual assault and sexual harassment of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/33-year-old-mumbai-man-arrested-for-sexually-assaulting-niece-impregnating-her/story-bIxj6nfUYTgbAvb7Cv8mQL.html
29-07-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai man sentenced to life imprisonment for killing wife||A 36-year-old man was sentenced to life imprisonment by a city civil and sessions court on Friday, for murdering his wife in January 2017. The convict Jayesh Mhadlekar, a resident of Mulund, was booked after his wife Shreya was found fatally injured inside their house. According to Mulund police, Mhadlekar had married Shreya in 2003, but because of his alcohol addiction, she chose to stay with her parents from 2015. On January 26, 2017, Mhadlekar went to Shreya’s house to bring her back but her family asked him to leave. He waited outside their building and when Shreya stepped out to go to work, Mhadlekar forcibly took her home. Shreya’s family was unable to contact her and when they called her office they were informed that she had not reported to work. Her mother then went to Mhadlekar’s house and found Shreya lying on the floor with head injuries. She was rushed to a nearby hospital where she was declared dead on arrival. A first information report (FIR) was registered at Mulund police station, and two days later, Mhadlekar was arrested. While contending the case, prosecutor Shulabha Joshi said that Mhadlekar used to beat his wife often. They pointed out that there were several criminal cases registered against him. The prosecution also contended that Mhadlekar used to suspect Shreya of having an affair and had threatened her former boss, alleging that he was involved with his wife.Mhadlekar, in his defence, claimed that he was not in the city, but had left for Hyderabad at the time of the murder. The court, however, rejected his defense as he failed to produce a ticket or proof of travel. Further, he was spotted outside Shreya’s house and another witness had also seen him with Shreya on his bike on the day of the murder.The court held Mhadlekar guilty for his wife’s murder based on circumstantial evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-man-sentenced-to-life-imprisonment-for-killing-wife/story-dNLTaMpCg1BVK8IpyaQnvI.html
29-07-2020||City||Maharashtra government to release pending March salaries of its employees, elected representatives before August 22||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday announced to release the remaining part of the March salary of elected representatives and state government employees before Ganesh Chaturthi (August 22).The salaries ranging between 25% and 60% of elected representatives, including ministers, legislators, corporators and government were deferred, to cope with the reduction in the state’s revenue, which witnessed a drastic drop in March after the lockdown was imposed. The elected representatives were paid 40% of their salaries, while Class A and B employees received 50% and Class C employees got 75% of their salaries.“The amount withheld from the salary the March was ₹3,000 crore, which will be released in August,” said Manoj Saunik, additional chief secretary, finance.According to another official from the department, the employees and elected representatives will get the amount credited into their account before August 15.“The process of releasing the amount will begin in the first week of August and is expected to be completed in a week,” he said.Meanwhile, the state government has hiked the cap on the purchase price of government vehicles meant for inspector generals and divisional commissioners from ₹8 lakh to ₹10 and for district collectors and superintendents of police from ₹7 lakh to ₹9 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-government-to-release-pending-march-salaries-of-its-employees-elected-representatives-before-august-22/story-7szPq9SBSvm93hCGcjomIO.html
29-07-2020||Mumbai||PMC Bank fraud case: Pre-arrest bail pleas of 2 directors rejected||The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday dismissed the anticipatory bail applications filed by two directors of the Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative (PMC) Bank. After perusing investigation papers pertaining to the ₹7,457-crore PMC Bank fraud case, justice Sadhana Jadhav pronounced an operative order of rejecting the anticipatory bail pleas filed by Gurnam Singh Hothi and Daljit Singh Bal and observed that neither of the directors deserved the discretionary relief of pre-arrest bail. A detailed reasoning for the dismissal of the pleas is awaited.Hothi and Bal had moved HC after the sessions court rejected their anticipatory bail pleas. The sessions court granted them interim protection from arrest till June 15, which was extended by HC from time to time. But on Thursday, justice Jadhav also withdrew the interim protection, thus paving the way for the arrest of the two accused in the case.The economic offences wing (EOW) of the Mumbai Police had on September 30 last year registered an offence in connection with the fraud at the multi-state scheduled cooperative bank, accusing many of its directors of illegally extending huge loans to realty firm Housing Development and Infrastructure Limited (HDIL) and its group companies.According to the Reserve Bank of India, PMC Bank had masked 44 problematic loan accounts involving advances worth ₹7,457.49 crore to some entities, including HDIL, by tampering with its core banking system and these accounts were accessible only to limited staff members.The bank had created 21,049 fictitious accounts in a bid to ensure that its master data tallies to the loan disbursals, the RBI stated in an affidavit filed in response to other PMC Bank-related petitions before HC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pmc-bank-fraud-case-pre-arrest-bail-pleas-of-2-directors-rejected/story-PEq1TEgJlHx4XHpIttoVOO.html
29-07-2020||Mumbai||University of Mumbai’s admission process for undergraduate courses is a nightmare: Students||The University of Mumbai’s (MU) online process for admissions to undergraduate (UG) courses is has become a nightmare for hundreds of aspirants, as the process is lengthy, time-consuming and expensive, students and parents have claimed. Over 2.25 lakh students had registered on the university portal until Tuesday evening.The university announced its schedule for the pre-admission online registration process on July 21. As per the earlier process, students had to take copies of pre-admission forms and submit them at colleges where they wanted to seek admissions, along with the admission forms. However, with the Covid-19 outbreak and the ensuing lockdown, the entire application process is being conducted online this year. While the move is aimed to benefit aspirants in the current situation, students and parents said that the move is far from achieving its goal. “The entire process is very tedious and not student-friendly. Students first have to fill a form for the university, which also includes filling individual college forms. Then the same process has to be repeated for every college on the college website. They then have to upload documents on the university portal for every college that they wish to apply in. All these steps involve taking prints, scanning them, uploading several documents and even after doing so much, there is still no clarity on several aspects,” said Vijay Patil, a parent from Thane. Several parents also complained about the ambiguity on programme names on the university’s website. “For an undergraduate commerce course, there are at least a dozen options, from autonomous to credit-based to specializations, which is very confusing for even educated parents, leave alone those whose children are first generation learners. Each college also has its own set of guidelines and documents and there is no uniformity. Students who are applying to multiple colleges take hours to fill each form,” said a parent from Goregaon. While the university has given a helpline number and an online chat-based option for queries, many students said they could not connect with either of the options. “I was constantly trying to call on the helpline number but it was busy throughout. When I tried writing my queries on the online chat box, I was asked to present my doubts between 10am and 6pm, though I had written to them during the stipulated time,” said Akash Gupta, an aspirant from Borivli. He added that many of his friends, who did not have a computer, are struggling to fill the forms as cyber cafes are shut in the city, owing to the lockdown. The university has not even provided previous years’ cut-offs, leaving students clueless about whether or not they can even get into a college of their choice. Ashok Wadia, the principal of Churchgate’s Jai Hind College, said the college received several queries from students about the admission process. “While we have given clear guidelines for our college form and made it simple, students did have some trouble with the university portal. Some college names were not appearing in the initial days and there was confusion about course names. Our staff has been helping students with the process,” he added. A senior official from MU said that the admission process might look tedious right now, but the purpose of uploading all the scanned documents with pre-admission registration, as well as at the form-filling process, is to ensure that the documents are easy to verify at the time of admission. “Since students will not be able to visit these colleges to submit documents, we are ensuring that every college the student applies to gets an easy access to the scanned documents,” said the official. Students can call on 020-66834821 or fill out a form on MU’s portal to get answers to their questions. THE PROCESS Students have to register themselves on MU’s portal and upload their documents, including photo, signature, certificates, mark sheets and proof of residence. After selecting a course from an exhaustive list, students have to mark the colleges in which they wish to apply. Then, an individual form for each of those colleges is generated and documents have to be uploaded for every application.Each of the forms have to be printed, signed by the student, scanned and then kept ready for uploading at the college-level forms.Students have to visit websites of individual colleges and repeat the whole process – fill information, upload documents including a university undertaking and then pay fees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/university-of-mumbai-s-admission-process-for-undergraduate-courses-is-a-nightmare-students/story-XqHTvGbHNLpgOewNnkUclK.html
29-07-2020||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: Sudha Bharadwaj getting access to proper health facilities in jail, NIA tells Bombay HC||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) opposed the interim bail plea of activist Sudha Bharadwaj, an accused in the Elgar Parishad case who is lodged at the Byculla women’s prison since 2018. Bharadwaj approached the Bombay high court (HC), appealing against the rejection of her interim bail plea by the special NIA court in May. Though she is booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Amendment Act (UAPA), Bharadwaj sought interim bail on medical grounds in the light of the directions issued by the Supreme Court to decongest jails amid the Covid-19 outbreak. A division bench of justice RD Dhanuka and justice VG Bisht, while hearing Bharadwaj’s application, was informed by advocate Ragini Ahuja that though the application in HC was filed on June 11, it is not being heard. Ahuja further submitted that Bharadwaj suffered from some chronic ailments and was seeking a temporary bail owing to her comorbid condition and the fact that the Covid-19 infection had spread in some jails. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh, who appeared on behalf of NIA, however, opposed the application and submitted that Bharadwaj was being provided proper health facilities in jail and that her condition was being monitored regularly. He also pointed out that the UAPA did not have a provision for bail. Singh further submitted that the jail authorities were complying with the court’s directions that were issued in other applications and said that he wished to place the judgments on record, which the court accepted. Singh said that he would submit the compilation by Thursday after which the court posted the matter for hearing on August 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-sudha-bharadwaj-getting-access-to-proper-health-facilities-in-jail-nia-tells-bombay-hc/story-5ftrIrQ2ftZzTBSSV2yIYI.html
29-07-2020||Mumbai||CM expected to travel across state, but Uddhav yet to start tours: Pawar||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Tuesday remarked that the chief minister (CM) is expected to tour different parts of the state and meet the people, but in the case of Uddhav Thackeray, he is yet to commence his visits. Pawar also said that as he keeps travelling, he is in fact more visible than the CM himself. The NCP leader made the statements during an interview with a Marathi news channel. “I don’t think that the CM is failing to take everyone into confidence. He speaks to everyone. But the only difference is that I’m more visible, as I keep travelling. He [Thackeray] doesn’t travel and works from one place,” Pawar replied when he was asked about the disputes within the three-party Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government based on claims of Thackeray not taking everyone into confidence. “Being head of the government, he [CM] is expected to monitor and function from one place, but it doesn’t mean that he should do so permanently. In between, he is also expected to tour the state after taking some time out from his schedule, meet people and take them into confidence, which [in this case] is yet to happen,” the veteran leader added. The remarks are opposite to the statement made by the former Union minister on Saturday, when he defended the CM for not visiting the other areas of the state amid the Covid-19 crisis. Pawar then said that the leaders urged the CM to oversee and monitor the functioning of his team from one place. He had also praised Thackeray and said that the CM is working day and night to tackle the Covid-19 outbreak as one-point agenda. Pawar has been visiting various districts and reviewing the preparations by local authorities, along with health minister Rajesh Tope, to contain the outbreak. On Saturday, he was in Aurangabad city to take stock of the situation and to launch the ‘Mission Zero—Aurangabad’ campaign to bring the death rate to zero in the city. On Friday, the 79-year old leader was at Nashik, while earlier that week on July 20, he was in Solapur district to review the measures taken to control the Covid-19 situation. Maharashtra has recorded the highest number of Covid-19 cases and deaths in the country. The surge in Covid-19 cases in the past few weeks in several cities and districts outside Mumbai has been a cause of concern for the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cm-expected-to-travel-across-state-but-uddhav-yet-to-start-tours-pawar/story-bK2hqugM4Nea7RfwymJQVK.html
29-07-2020||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: Vernon Gonsalves’s Covid report negative, yet to get Dr Anand Teltumbde’s result, Maharashtra government tells HC||The state has informed the Bombay high court (HC) that the Covid-19 report of Elgar Parishad accused, activist Vernon Gonsalves, has come negative, while the test result of another accused, Dr Anand Teltumbde, is awaited. Gonsalves had approached the court seeking for a test, as he had been in close contact with another accused in the case, P Varavara Rao, in Taloja jail. Rao was tested positive for the virus on July 16. Dr Teltumbde had sought the test as he was also lodged in the same jail hospital where Rao was undergoing treatment for other ailments before he was tested positive for Covid-19.A division bench of justice RD Dhanuka and justice VG Bisht, while hearing the application by Gonsalves and Dr Teltumbde, was informed by senior advocate Mihir Desai that though his clients had been tested for Covid-19, the jail authorities had not informed them or their families about the results. Desai said that it was only through media reports did they learn that Gonsalves was tested negative for Covid-19. Desai further submitted that though both the accused had been in touch with their families and lawyers through video-calling while at Taloja jail, they had not spoken to their families from the time their plea to be tested was complied with by the jail authorities. Hence, the authorities should be directed to facilitate the video calls.Responding to Desai, public prosecutor Deepak Thakare confirmed that Gonsalves had tested negative for Covid and his health was being monitored regularly, even as the authorities are yet to get Dr Teltumbde’s reports. The state has also assured the court that Gonsalves would be allowed to make video calls to his family. Thakare also sought time till Friday to know the outcome of Dr Teltumbde’s test results, which the court allowed and posted the matter for hearing after that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-vernon-gonsalves-s-covid-report-negative-yet-to-get-dr-anand-teltumbde-s-result-maharashtra-government-tells-hc/story-feVU4HqQVu9C8QDFHiUBAN.html
29-07-2020||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: Submit report on Varavara Rao’s health in 3 days, Bombay HC tells Nanavati Hospital||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday directed Nanavati Super Speciality Hospital to submit within three days a report on the health of 81-year-old Telugu poet P Varavara Rao, accused in the Elgar Parishad case and who was recently admitted to the hospital for Covid-19 treatment. Rao was shifted from Taloja Jail to a hospital earlier this month owing to his deteriorating health and he has been undergoing treatment in Mumbai hospitals since July 16 after testing positive for coronavirus. The court order was prompted after Rao’s family expressed concerns, as according to them, Rao was admitted to hospital in a critical condition and neither the jail nor hospital authorities were forthcoming on any information. The court has asked the hospital to submit the report in court itself and posted the matter for hearing on August 7. A division bench of justice R D Dhanuka and justice VG Bisht, while hearing the petition filed by Rao’s advocate, was informed by senior counsel Sudeep Pasbola that ever since Rao was shifted from Sir JJ Hospital to GT Hospital and finally to Nanavati Hospital at Vile Parle, the family was in the dark regarding his health condition. Rao had been shifted to Sir JJ Hospital from Taloja Jail after his health had deteriorated. After the Covid test on him at Sir JJ Hospital turned positive, he was shifted to GT Hospital, which is a Covid dedicated hospital. Though Rao’s Covid report said that he was asymptomatic, but due to other comorbidities when he suffered a head injury after falling off the hospital cot, he was rushed to Nanavati Hospital. Pasbola informed the court that since then the family was in the dark on his condition and hence the court should direct jail authorities to allow his family to see him. On behalf of the National Investigation Agency (NIA), additional solicitor general Anil Singh opposed the plea of Rao’s family, stating that as per ICMR guidelines, no one could go near a Covid patient, except the doctors and hospital staff treating him, hence the question of the family being able to meet Rao at Nanavati Hospital was not possible. Singh further submitted that as per the ICMR guidelines no information about the patient could be revealed to anyone till the patient fully recovered and hence the demand of the family to know the status could not be complied with. The jail authorities and the state, through public prosecutor Deepak Thakare, concurred with Singh and said that even personnel from the jail were not allowed to see Rao. Thakare, however, submitted that authorities did not have any problem if the hospital was asked to submit a report on the health condition of Rao and the line of treatment adopted by them after Rao was admitted there. Thakare suggested that the hospital could submit the report to the court and the court could then disclose it to the family. After hearing the submissions, the bench directed the hospital to submit a report on the two parameters within three days and said that after perusing the report, it would decide on whether the information could be shared with the family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-submit-report-on-varavara-rao-s-health-in-3-days-bombay-hc-tells-nanavati-hospital/story-NNQo9M8M3FxscFKTFq0eSO.html
29-07-2020||City||PG admissions: BFUHS starts mop-up round of counselling||Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) here on Tuesday started the mop-up round of counselling to fill the vacant seats of postgraduate courses in the state’s medical and dental colleges.“All the candidates whether registered earlier or not will have to submit willingness to participate in the mop-up round through the university portal up to July 29 by 2pm. A provisional merit list will be displayed after which the candidates will submit the preferences of colleges and specialties on the online portal from July 29 to July 30. The provisional allotment list of mop-up round will be declared on July 30. The candidates will report for physical joining after paying the balance six-month fee to the respective colleges on July 31 by 11am,” stated a BFUHS notification.To fill the vacant seats of postgraduate courses, BFUHS will hold walk-in counselling for the stray vacancy round on July 31 from 3pm onwards at the university campus here. “The candidates will have to deposit the registration fee and transfer six-month fee on the spot in the university’s account,” said BFUHS registrar G C Ahir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pg-admissions-bfuhs-starts-mop-up-round-of-counselling/story-lzJmD7Pb9hdpdKr7GR8SdL.html
29-07-2020||City||Punjab cuts cellphone allowance by 50%, faces flak from staff||The Punjab government has slashed the mobile phone allowance of its employees by up to 50%. The cut is admissible to state government employees of all groups.The decision, however, has invited flak from the employees, who have termed it a financial attack on them during the Covid-19 pandemic.The new mobile phone allowance package will be implemented from August 1, stated a notification issued by finance department deputy secretary Sangita.As per the amendment, the said monthly allowance has been fixed at ₹250 for group A employees, ₹175 for group B, ₹150 for groups C and D staff.Earlier, group A employees were entitled to ₹500, group B to ₹300, groups C and D to ₹250 per month.Democratic employees’ federation district president Parween Sharma said, “This is a financial attack by the state government on employees’ pockets. We are already spending large amounts on mobile bills from our own pockets to upload data entries.”“The finance department is seeing our cellphone allowance as a burden, but no such cuts have been announced for MLAs or ministers,” said Vikram Dev, a government teachers’ union leader.Meanwhile, SAD treasurer and spokesperson NK Sharma criticised the government for reducing the mobile phone allowance of its employees, terming it an attempt to fill the state’s empty coffers. The SAD-BJP government had started the allowance in 2011, but the Congress reduced it for all categories of employees, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-cuts-cellphone-allowance-by-50-faces-flak-from-staff/story-T0wfVmkt4lmKRRN81ZNfIK.html
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||17-year-old boy stabbed to death in Tarn Taran village||A 17-year-old boy was stabbed to death in Gharka village of Goindwal Sahib sub-division on Monday evening and his body was found in a field on Tuesday morning. According to the villagers, victim Jugraj Singh had been practising running as it was his ambition to join the Indian Army. “On Monday evening, my son went out for the running but didn’t return. His body was found this morning,” Jugraj’s father Balkar Singh told the police. Jugraj would have celebrated his 18th birthday on Tuesday. Village sarpanch Mandeep Singh said, “Jugraj’s mobile phone was snatched by a miscreant. While chasing the miscreant, who was also on foot, Jugraj was stabbed. A boy of the village had witnessed this.”Chohla Sahib station house officer Sonamdeep Kaur said they have registered a murder case and efforts are on to identify the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/17-year-old-boy-stabbed-to-death-in-tarn-taran-village/story-INxiJcrslrjpZHvpcNAGmI.html
29-07-2020||Mumbai||Police hunt for Sudanese national who fled from Colaba hotel after testing positive for Covid-19||Colaba police have launched a manhunt for a Sudanese national who fled from a Colaba hotel after he tested positive for Covid-19. Police have also booked the owner of a hotel who had organised tests for 59 foreign nationals but kept the civic authority in the dark about the escape of the Covid-positive patient.Police on Monday registered a first information report (FIR) based on the complaint of Dharamprakash Satish Kumar Kori, 31, a civic doctor from Tardeo.According to Kori’s complaint, on July 23, Rahim Turk, owner of Hotel Aga Begh in Apollo Port, called 59 foreign nationals to his hotel. The foreigners wanted to get themselves tested, and Turk helped them by calling the staff from a private lab to the hotel to conduct the tests. “The report of one Sudanese national Ahmed Hamid Ahmed Almeen, who was staying at Colaba’s Kishan Hotel, came positive following which he fled from the hotel,” said an officer from Colaba police station.Turk called a large number of people together for the tests without getting the requisite permission. He also did not inform the municipal office about the escape of the Covid-positive foreigner. When civic officials learnt about the incident on Monday, they approached Colaba police and an FIR was registered against Turk and Almeen under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Epidemic Act.Sangramsinh Nishandar, deputy commissioner of police, zone 1 confirmed the development and said, “Our men are looking for the Covid-19 positive Sudanese national.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/police-hunt-for-sudanese-national-who-fled-from-colaba-hotel-after-testing-positive-for-covid-19/story-HgeNMXMjyFsN2oCwuCQ6yL.html
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||Sukhbir warns CM against ‘misuse’ of UAPA by Punjab police||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Tuesday cautioned chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh against the “indiscriminate” use of Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) by the Punjab police.In a statement here, the SAD chief said clear-cut directions should be given to director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta not to register cases against Sikh youths under the Act for minor offences. “There are increasing cases of Sikh youths being arrested and jailed for minor misdemeanours under the UAPA. The state police are misusing the Act which needs to be stopped immediately,” he claimed.Sukhbir said the DGP was under the misapprehension that indoctrination turned youths into terrorists during a one-day visit to Kartarpur Sahib as stated earlier by him, urging the CM to give clear directions to the DGP that no Sikh youth should be picked up simply for seeing or forwarding some matter on social media. He said targeting Sikh youths in this manner would not only scar them for life but also have far-reaching consequences, including the propensity to spoil peace and harmony in the state.“We should be mindful of taking any step which can take Punjab back to the dark era,” he cautioned, announcing that SAD would fight all such cases of Sikh youths who were being falsely implicated. He said Punjabis were a patriotic community and there was no support whatsoever for Referendum 2020 or any other divisive agenda in the state.AAP TO MEET BADNORE ON ISSUEAam Aadmi Party (AAP) said on Tuesday that a delegation will meet Punjab governor VP Singh Badnore to highlight the “blatant violations of human rights” under the UAPA and the deteriorating law and order machinery in the state.In a statement here, AAP spokesperson and Kotkapura MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan said leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema has sought an audience with the governor. He said the AAP is against anti-social activities or any anti-social elements taking the law into their hands, but would not be a mute spectator to human rights violations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sukhbir-warns-cm-against-misuse-of-uapa-by-punjab-police/story-rKJvU0mCYXJNK8TOIgN8GP.html
29-07-2020||Mumbai||SSC results to be out at 1pm today||The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) will declare the results of the Secondary School Certificate (SSC) examinations at 1pm on Wednesday. Students can see their results on www.mahresult.nic.in. More than 17 lakh students appeared for the exams across the state. Nearly 3.91 lakh students were from Mumbai division alone. Due to the Covid-19 outbreak, the board cancelled the last Geography paper, which was scheduled on March 23.The board will consider marks of written exams only while calculating average scores for the cancelled paper. Of the 600 marks that students write their papers for, 480 marks are for written exams and 120 marks for internal assessments. With the cancellation of 40 marks for the written paper of Geography, the written total will now be 440 marks.The education department had also reintroduced oral exams for languages and social sciences this year after the overall pass percentage of students recorded a dip in 2019 due to the scrapping of orals. The Mumbai divisional board also introduced a new rule in which private candidates were not allowed to change their exam centres at the last minute. Students who wish to apply for revaluation can apply on the board’s online portal from July 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ssc-results-to-be-out-at-1pm-today/story-fY3RObTgAheJu816uat2lO.html
29-07-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai records its lowest single-day spike since May 12||The city on Tuesday recorded 700 Covid-19 cases, its lowest single-day figure since May 12, when it reported 426 infections. The state’s worst-affected city’s tally rose to 110,882, while the toll went up to 6,187 with 55 new deaths. The active case count in Mumbai stood at 19,990.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageMaharashtra on Tuesday recorded 7,717 cases, taking its tally to 391,440. The state could cross another grim landmark of 4 lakh cases on Wednesday, based on the current trend of daily caseload. The state’s active case tally stood at 144,694 with 10,333 patients being discharged on Tuesday. So far, 232,277 have recovered in the state with Tuesday the second day in a row the number of recoveries was more than new cases. Maharashtra also recorded 282 more fatalities, taking the toll to 14,165Mumbai’s figures came a day after it saw the highest number of tests done, at 8,776. Previously, the highest number of tests was on July 25 at 8,494, followed by 7,609 on July 24. Mumbai’s doubling rate is now 68 days.Mumbai’s municipal commissioner IS Chahal confirmed the development to Hindustan Times on Tuesday morning. He said, “Our testing figures have gone up to 8,776 tests in a single day on Monday, the highest so far.”Aaditya Thackeray, Maharashtra environment minister, on Tuesday tweeted, “The good news: Only 700 cases today in Mumbai & that too with highest testing till date in Mumbai in a single day (8776).This is chase the virus in full capacity. A major relief after 3 months. Caution: don’t let the guard down! Don’t let your mask down! Only get numbers down!”Thackeray also tweeted, “Mumbai will see more testing with chase the virus initiative of the @mybmc . It is also the only city to have liberalised testing and allowed citizens to “test at will”.”Mumbai liberalised its testing policy on July 7, permitting anyone to approach a laboratory and opt for a test, without a doctor’s prescription. Up to July 27, Mumbai has conducted 494,339 tests. This amounts to 38,004 tests per million. However, this is far less than Delhi, which has conducted 958,265 tests so far (according to BMC’s Covid-19 war room dashboard), amounting to 50,435 tests per million. Mumbai’s positivity percentage is 22.28%, a slight drop from the earlier 23.08%, recorded until last week. Mumbai has a recovery rate of 73%, case growth rate of 1.03% and a case fatality rate (CFR) of 5.5%.Dr Gautam Bhansali, senior city-based doctor, and chief co-ordinator of private hospitals of BMC said, “This is a very good trend for Mumbai. It looks like the curve has already flattened. For the past month if we see, [number of] daily cases have been similar, between 1,000 and 1,200. Now cases have further come down to 700. By August 1st week, curve will drop further. “Dharavi, once a Covid-19 hotspot, recorded three new cases, taking the total number of cases to 2,543. There are presently only 88 active cases in Dharavi. It’s doubling rate is now 258 and growth rate average of seven days is 0.37%. In Dharavi, in the past seven days, an average of nine cases per day was recorded. Since June 1, Dharavi’s Covid-19 situation has been on the road to recovery, with the curve flattening in June itself. On Monday, it recorded nine new cases, on Sunday, it recorded two, on Saturday 10, on Friday six and on Thursday, too, six cases were reported. (inputs from Swapnil Rawal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/700-cases-in-mumbai-lowest-since-may-12/story-voZkkZfXbACEjUtRIRReTM.html
29-07-2020||City||₹1.65 lakh refunded to 33 patients after TMC sends notice to 4 hospitals||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has sent notices to four privately-run hospitals for overcharging Covid-19 patients. A total of ₹1.65 lakh was refunded to 33 patients. Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of TMC, said, “Four hospitals have collectively refunded ₹1.65 lakh to 33 patients over the last couple of days. One hospital has refunded ₹1,20,625 to nine patients, followed by ₹23, 250 refunded by another hospital.” Last week, TMC cancelled the registration and Covid license of one private hospital for overcharging. The civic body also sent notices to around 15 hospitals, also for overcharging, and demanded refunds for patients. On May 21, the Maharashtra government had passed a notification that capped treatment costs for Covid-19. TMC set up an audit committee on July 18 to look into complaints of overcharging. “In our audit we found that 40% to 48% of bills from each private hospital was more than the rates fixed by the government. From July 10-20, an additional amount of ₹27 lakh was overcharged from patients in various hospitals while ₹30 lakh was overcharged between July 20-25,” said an officer from the committee. Complaints of overcharging have also been filed to the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC), which on June 25 set up a flying squad. So far, it has received six complaints, of which one has been resolved with the complainant receiving a refund. The remaining cases are under investigation. As of July 23, KDMC has also appointed auditors at each privately-run Covid hospital. However, the Alert Citizens Forum (Jagruk Nagrik Manch) of Kalyan has asked KDMC to audit hospital bills from May 21 onwards. “The civic body has recently initiated the audit of bills from private hospitals although the notification was passed on May 21. We have come across several patients’ bills which are not as per the rates mentioned by the state. The civic body should do an audit of all the hospitals from May 21,” said Sreeniwas Ghanekar, founder of the forum. KDMC commissioner Vijay Suryavanshi said, “We have already appointed auditors for the 24 hospitals that treat Covid-19 patients. They will keep checking bills and helping patients. We cannot take up the audit for previous bills altogether now. What we can do is if there is a complaint on previous bills, we can get it audited.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-65-lakh-refunded-to-33-patients-after-tmc-sends-notice-to-4-hospitals/story-jO6ZZqRcTlJH2R0T7fymIK.html
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||HC eases adoption norms for Hindu, Sikh NRIs||In a judgment which paves way for child adoption by Indian diaspora from the country, Punjab and Haryana high court has held that NRIs applying under the Hindu Adoption and Maintenance Act (HAMA)-1956 don’t have to undergo the rigorous process set under Central Adoption Resource Authority (CARA).The high court bench of justice Jaishree Thakur also held that for adoption covered under the personal law — applicable to Hindus, Sikhs, Buddhists and Jains — within the country, the adoptee won’t even need the CARA certification. There is no personal law for adoption by Muslims.CARA is a statutory body for adoption of Indian children and is mandated to monitor and regulate in-country and inter-country adoptions. CARA was established under the Juvenile Justice Act (JJA)-2015 after the Hague Convention on Protection of Children and Co-operation in Respect of Intercountry Adoption. Under CARA, adoption can be made by person of any belief.The ruling was delivered in a plea wherein a two-year-old girl adopted by an NRI couple was denied passport. Born as one of the twins to a Jalandhar couple in 2017, she was adopted by her natural mother’s NRI sister as per Sikh rites performed at a local gurdwara for which a certificate was also issued. In November 2018, they signed an adoption deed under HAMA, following which the adoptive parents applied for the girl’s passport, but it was rejected by authorities stating that a no-objection certificate (NOC) from CARA was mandatory, said the family’s lawyer Sukhwinder Singh Nara.The court said Section 56 (3) of the JJA stipulates that the provisions of the law shall not apply to adoption of children under HAMA. The said adoption cannot be challenged on the ground that the same should have been made under JJA, which itself states that a valid adoption of a minor child under HAMA is irreversible and cannot be revoked, the bench said.The bench observed that JJA was formulated for protection of such children who are found to be in conflict with law or require rehabilitation and that its provisions can’t be invoked for adoption directly given by natural parents.The bench said the passport authorities could not have questioned the validity of the registered adoption deed in the application. To meet the requirement of passport authorities, CARA is simply required to issue an NOC, taking note of the fact that the adoption has been done under HAMA.The court has also directed CARA to issue an NOC within two weeks and the external affairs ministry to grant passport in another two weeks.“Adoption under the Hague convention is a tedious process and takes years. An applicant has to apply in their country and then after studies and various evaluations, matches are found. It takes almost two years and lakhs of rupees. This judgment helps those NRIs who have relatives in India and want to adopt from here,” said Anil Malhotra, who was amicus curiae in this case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-eases-adoption-norms-for-hindu-sikh-nris/story-x7u6UB2vSoz3FOSbmkRWaJ.html
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||With 19 fatalities, Punjab logs highest single-day death toll||Punjab on Tuesday reported a record single-day spike of 609 cases and record 19 coronavirus deaths. With this, the infection tally rose to 14,378 and death toll 336.Ludhiana reported six deaths, followed by three each in Tarn Taran, Amritsar, Sangrur and Patiala and one in Hoshiarpur, according to the media bulletin released by the state government. The state also reported highest recoveries on Tuesday, with 688 patients being discharged from hospitals. A maximum of 426 patients recovered in Jalandhar district. Six persons died while 146 tested positive in Ludhiana. The virus has so far claimed 71 lives in the district since March 29. Three Amritsar residents died of Covid-19 during the treatment on Tuesday, health officials said. The district also reported 72 fresh Covid cases, of which 29 are locally transmitted cases and 43 are close contacts of positive patients. The total tally of district is now 1,646, of which 71 have died and 1,197 have recovered. Among the 72 cases, 24 are inmates of the Amritsar Central Jail and seven are jail staff members. Besides, Gurdaspur district reported 23 more cases. Meanwhile, Tarn Taran reported three deaths 13 fresh cases. Sixty more people contracted the virus in and two in SBS Nagar. Three people succumbed to the virus while 65 contracted the infection in Patiala district. Of the positive cases, 49 are from Patiala city, four each from Nabha and Rajpura, one from Samana and seven from different villages across the district.Three coronavirus deaths were reported in Sangrur district, while seven people contracted the infection. Meanwhile, the administration has asked Malerkotla residents celebrate Eid at home.Meanwhile, Ferozepur reported 39 fresh cases, including five staffers of a private bank, 23 in Fazilka, 17 in Bathinda and two in Mansa. Twenty-six fresh cases were reported from Kapurthala. Of these, 12 are from Kapurthala modern jail, 7 from Phagwara, 4 from Kapurthala city and remaining from local villages. Meanwhile, 17 persons contracted the infection in Moga and 24 in Mohali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/with-19-fatalities-punjab-logs-highest-single-day-death-toll/story-Xo7Qjjg1CXp7y0YOJKUxQO.html
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||Covid effect: Govt to switch gears, double ‘Apni Gaddi’ scheme subsidy||The Punjab government has decided to rejig its ‘Apni Gaddi Apna Rozgar’ scheme to create self-employment opportunities for jobless youth in the changed post-coronavirus market scenario in the state. The department of employment generation and training has set in motion the process to double the subsidy support and facilitate finance for two-wheelers and light commercial vehicles (LCVs) under the self-employment programme. A proposal has been sent to the finance department to increase the subsidy given to unemployed persons on purchase of vehicles from the existing 15% to 30%. The scheme was launched by the state government in January 2020. As per the scheme, the department of employment generation and training contributes 15% of the on-road price of the vehicle or Rs 75,000, whichever is less, for four-wheelers. In case of three-wheelers, the maximum subsidy was capped at Rs 50,000. The beneficiary is required to make a matching contribution of 15% and the balance 70% is funded by the Punjab State Cooperative Bank through a collateral-free loan. The department has also collaborated with leading ride-hailing companies Uber and Ola to help them get on the road quickly. Harpreet Singh Sudan, director, employment generation and training, said the scheme was started to help jobless persons purchase three-wheelers or four wheelers and collaborate with cab aggregators but the market scenario has changed due to the Covid-19 outbreak. “As the business of cab aggregators has been hit and new opportunities are emerging, the scope of the scheme is being expanded to provide subsidy on purchase of two-wheelers, LCVs and utility vehicles,” he said. The scheme was started in six districts, including Amritsar, Mohali, Ludhiana, Ropar and Patiala, on a pilot basis with an initial provision for subsidy of Rs 5 crore for 600 vehicles. However, it did not get the desired response and only 353 applications were received till June-end. “The Covid-19 pandemic was not the only dampener. There have been requests from several applicants, who belong to economically weaker families, for additional support because they find it difficult to contribute their share,” another official of the department said. The scheme was among a slew of job-oriented programmes – Harra (Green) Tractor Scheme and Yaari Enterprises being the other ones, announced by the Congress in its poll manifesto. The party had promised to provide 1 lakh taxis and light commercial vehicles per annum to jobless youth at subsidised rates without any collateral with the state government standing guarantee under it. The state government initially drew a plan to set aside a hefty sum of money and enter into an agreement with cab aggregators to help unemployed youth get taxis and LCVs on hire-purchase basis, but then abandoned for want for funds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-effect-govt-to-switch-gears-double-apni-gaddi-scheme-subsidy/story-zwsiHnwHv5PtJjzrpUIqRJ.html
29-07-2020||Gurugram||SOPs to restart medical tourism in Gurugram sent for approval||Several rounds of testing and strict isolation are some of the new rules that are likely to become operational for medical tourists seeking treatment in the city, if a new set of standard operating procedures (SOPs) are approved by the Central government. The medical value travel (MVT) companies, which promote medical tourism in Gurugram, along with Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI), have submitted a set of comprehensive SOPs to the union ministries of commerce, civil aviation and health and family welfare that are supposed be followed by international patients, who come to India for surgeries and cancer treatments, which are offered at relatively cheaper prices. As international flights become incrementally operational, medical tourism companies are now working on the protocols to reopen the sector, which generates nearly Rs400 crore monthly in Delhi-NCR region, as per industry experts. “A set of SOPs have been prepared in consultation with the MVT companies and hospitals. The safety of people is of utmost importance in a pandemic situation but at the same time economic activity has to be resumed. FICCI has come out with the policy recommendations for medical tourism as many countries have started opening up their air services. However, the Central government will have to take the final call on the resumption of international flights and entry of foreign medical patients into the country,” said a senior representative of FICCI, privy to the matter.TESTING AND ISOLATIONAccording to the SOPs, hospitals will have to carefully select patients, especially avoiding those with serious co-morbidity issues. Both patients and the attendants will have to take the RT-PCR tests 48 hours prior to their scheduled flight. Only Covid-19 negative patients will be allowed to enter the country.On arrival, the patient will be reviewed for influenza-like illness (ILI) and respiratory infections at the airport. They will have to undergo RT-PCR and Covid-19 antibody tests, following which they will be quarantined. If found symptomatic, the patient will be directly shifted to the isolation ward of the hospital where he/she had to be admitted for the surgery or treatment. Hospitals will conduct the RT-PCR and if found negative then the patient will still have to wait for five to seven days, after which the antibody test will be conducted. If both the tests are negative by day 10, then the patient will be taken up for the planned health procedure, as per the SOPs. In case the patient is Covid-19 positive but asymptomatic, then they will have to be shifted to isolation units set up by hospitals in nearby hotels/guest houses. The final planned treatment of the patient can start once 14 days from the date of arrival is complete. Considering the international patient can be in a ‘carrier state’ even after being tested Covid-19 negative during the course of treatment, a final antibody test upon discharge would be conducted.THE COST FACTORTesting and isolation facilities will add up to the overall costs of medical treatment for such patients, said Amit Sharma, founder and CEO, Expedise Healthcare, an MVT company. “There is over 30% hike in the price package for surgeries and oncology treatment for foreign patients. The testing and isolation bed costs have also been added to the overall cost of the treatment. It is being communicated to the patients that the cost would go up due to pandemic,” said Sharma, who has got queries from 36 patients in Bahrain, Oman, Kuwait, United Arab Emirates. Sharma is hopeful that by September, at least 100 international patients can fly down to Gurugram, if the Central government approves.Vidit Bahri, managing director, Sukoon Health — a part of Fortis Healthcare that deals with medical tourists requiring psychiatric treatment — said that there is still an uncertainty till international flights are fully operational. “In Delhi-NCR medical tourism generates almost ₹400 crore per month. It is important to gain the confidence and trust of the patients that they can be safely treated. Before Covid-19, 15-20 patients approached the centre per month but now there is a dip of at least 70%. Of late, we have received the request of only five to six patients. Approximately, two-and-a-half to three months are needed build up the demand,” said Bahri.Agreeing with Bahri, Dilip Chopra, president, Foundation for Health and Wellness Promotion, an association of MVT companies, said, “There is a lack of clarity, as many states are still under lockdown. In these states, how will the patients be transferred, how different hospitals will handle the patients are still unknown. Some of these questions will have to be addressed before the sector can open up,” said Chopra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/sops-to-restart-medical-tourism-in-gurugram-sent-for-approval/story-vKqUU3a4fv2CC3k0UzSDjN.html
29-07-2020||Delhi||Man hacks retired diplomat’s email, extorts his contacts for money, held||A 40-year-old man from Delhi hacked the email account of a retired senior diplomat and used it to dupe his contacts by sending them requests for financial help, said the police on Tuesday after arresting the man and uncovering an elaborate fraud in which he had allegedly made more than ₹1 crore.The suspect, Akram Ali, had also used a similar modus operandi to pose as an income tax and excise department officer to blackmail and extort other people for money, said Atul Kumar Thakur, the deputy commissioner of police (south).The police said Ali, who lives in south Delhi’s Shaheen Bagh, has only studied till Class 10 but allegedly came up with an idea that involved hacking the email accounts of prominent people and then either emotionally blackmailing their contacts into transferring money as financial help or extorting them for money. He used to work for a newspaper agency as part of the distribution team.The cyber team of the south Delhi district police were alerted of this modus operandi when the consulate general of a Latin American country approached the police with a complaint late last month.“The diplomat’s email contacts had received requests for financial help from his email ID. Two of his contacts had even helped with contributions of about ₹1.4 lakh. When he later interacted with one of them, he found that his email account was used fraudulently to send those requests,” said the DCP.When the police began probing the alleged fraud, they traced the IP addresses and the bank accounts in which the money had been deposited. “But we found that the accounts had been created using Aadhaar cards that had addresses in which the account holders did not live currently, and SIM cards using the same fake addresses,” said the DCP.The police connected one of the Aadhaar numbers to a labourer in Delhi. They said the labourer was living in a new place.When the labourer allegedly identified Ali as the man who had got his address on the Aadhaar card changed, arranged for his stay in a rented home and opened multiple bank accounts in his name, the police realised they had stumbled upon a well-planned fraud.“To receive the extortion money in bank accounts without being traced, Ali had approached about a dozen labourers who had Aadhaar cards, but they couldn’t be traced back to the address recorded on them,” said the DCP.The process would begin with Ali promising ₹10,000-₹20,000 to the labourers if they did as he said.“Ali would first rent rooms for these labourers. He would then change their addresses in the Aadhaar cards. Using the new address, he would open four-five bank accounts in each of their names. He would also procure SIM cards in their names and keep them,” said the DCP.Ali would then allegedly guide his potential victims to a web link which could be used to make the payments — which would land in the bank accounts of the labourers. Ali would then withdraw the money from ATMs.The police said that after Ali was arrested from his home on Sunday, he confessed to cheating many more people using similar techniques. “But it is unlikely that this man is operating alone. It required multiple skills and he could be working with more people. He has named one other person and we are ascertaining that person’s involvement and trying to nab him,” said another police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-hacks-retired-diplomat-s-email-extorts-his-contacts-for-money-held/story-Vrr9yjIjwTFyBgteD3qe4J.html
29-07-2020||Delhi||AAP to protest against south civic body’s new tax on professionals, other hikes||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will organise a protest outside the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) office on Wednesday against the decision of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) to levy a professional tax on self-employed persons, hike tax on transfer of property, and almost double the taxes on rented commercial properties. All three municipal corporations in Delhi are ruled by the BJP.The SDMC House on Monday passed the proposal to levy a professional tax on self-employed persons and professionals working in companies — a first in Delhi — and doubled the tax on rented commercial properties. The civic body also approved a 1% hike in tax on transfer of property, with an aim to ramp up revenue collection which has been hit by the national lockdown to contain spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The AAP’s political affairs committee member and in-charge of municipal corporation affairs Durgesh Pathak on Tuesday also criticised the Congress and said its councillors did not oppose the move in the SDMC House when it was passed on Monday.“The BJP should be ashamed of implementing these taxes at a time when people are struggling because of the Covid-19 pandemic… We shall be protesting against the move outside the BJP office tomorrow (Wednesday)… While the BJP is the party behind the taxes, the Congress worked in connivance with it by remaining silent in the House while the taxes were passed. Also, since 2017, when the BJP came to power in the three municipal corporations, Congress has not organised a single protest against the irregularities in the civic bodies. Is it because they are participants in the same corruption?” Pathak said during a press conference on Tuesday.Delhi Congress chief Chaudhary Anil Kumar said, “Congress councillors in the House had openly and vehemently opposed the passing of the new taxes, which at a time like this is inhuman and an additional burden on the common man. Both the AAP and the BJP are fooling people the same way. Even the AAP government had hiked the VAT on diesel and petrol, which is not warranted at this time. The Congress is also going to hold a press meet on the issue tomorrow (Wednesday).” In response to AAP’s allegations, BJP leader and SDMC mayor Anamika Mithilesh said due to the pandemic, the income of the civic body has been hit and its financial condition has worsened, leaving them with no option but to levy taxes. “In the past, we refrained from imposing any new tax or increasing rates of existing taxes but the Covid-19 has changed the scenario. As per the recommendations of the Fifth Finance Commission, Delhi government has to give us ₹1,300 crore but it is yet to do so. Hence, we had to levy taxes. We have designed tax slabs in such a way that it does not impact the common man,” she said.For self-employed professionals such as doctors, lawyers, chartered accountants and architects, etc.,earning between ₹50,000-75,000 per month, the professional tax will be ₹100 per month. For those earning between ₹75,000-1 lakh, it will be ₹150 a month, while it will be ₹200 a month for those earning above ₹1 lakh. Those earning less than ₹50,000 a month won’t be taxed.The SDMC House also doubled the tax on rented commercial property. The tax amount will depend on the location of the property. “Under the SDMC jurisdiction, there are around 9,000 to 10,000 commercial properties. So we hope to generate an additional revenue of ₹90-100 crore per annum. The move will not impact residential and commercial properties that are being run by the owners,” said Narendra Chawla, leader of the House, SDMC.For instance, the current commercial tax payable by a 83.6-square metre shop in a locality such as Defence Colony or South Extension is ₹25,333 per annum. But if the shop is a rented property, then the owner will now have to pay ₹50,666 as tax.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/aap-to-protest-against-south-civic-body-s-new-tax-on-professionals-other-hikes/story-aMY8DsmURGQKtGlijUPskN.html
29-07-2020||City||Amity varsity students devise Covid-19 kit, with ‘smart’ gloves, wearables||To protect people from Covid-19, students of Amity University have come up with a handy low-cost and low-powered battery operated kit that contains an electronic smart device for maintaining social distancing, smart gloves with a self-sanitising system, and an electronic device to keep one’s hands away from the face. VK Jain, professor of Amity Institute of Advanced Research and Studies (materials and devices), who led the project, said the kit would cost about Rs 500. He said a few companies have approached the lab for manufacturing these kits commercially. “The talks are in the final stage. Within a month, they would be available in the market,” Jain said. Explaining the uses of each item in the kit, Jain said, “The electronic smart device helps the user maintain a social distance of six feet from others. It has a buzzer and a light alarm and it warns the user if the six feet distance is breached. The radio frequency based device can be worn as a wrist band and has chargeable batteries.” Jain said the gloves in the kit will not only protect the wearer, but also prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease owing to its special design. “The inner layer is the same as that of a normal glove followed by second layer consisting of a special material loaded with antiviral agents, sanitiser and disinfectant. The topmost layer is perforated to release the antiviral agent to the surface which will kill the virus and prevent its spread. The sanitiser is released automatically by the movement of fingers when they hold an object,” Jain said. Suman Nagpal, a member of this team, said to prevent the most common habit of touching one’s face, they have also created an automatic alarm device. “This wearable low-cost and low-powered battery operated device will support individuals in building positive habits. It would emit an alarm each time a user tries to touch their face. This gadget is very affordable, lightweight and can be worn around the neck like a pendant. It has a buzzer alarm, a LED light and vibrator and the alert that will become stronger as the hand gets closer to the face,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/amity-varsity-students-devise-covid-19-kit-with-smart-gloves-wearables-to-maintain-social-distancing-hygiene/story-jCOM88KsX5076c2UJakydO.html
29-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi HC dismisses plea against power, water subsidy, imposes cost on petitioner||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday dismissed a plea challenging the water and electricity subsidies given by the AAP government and also imposed a cost of Rs 25,000 on the petitioner, stating that it was “absolutely and purely” a policy decision, which does not require interference. A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Prateek Jalan said water and electricity concessions were being given by the Delhi government as per its policy decision which was based upon complex facts and situations prevailing in the society. It said the policy is based on the desire of the people and “how to rule a state has to be best left to the people doing so”. The bench further said that unless an illegality in a policy is pointed out, the court was not inclined to alter it or interfere with it. “The court cannot impose even a better policy,” it said, adding “we see no reason to entertain the petition”. “Petition is dismissed with cost of Rs 25,000 to be deposited with the legal services authority.” Delhi government’s additional standing counsel Sanjoy Ghose and advocate Urvi Mohan had opposed the plea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hc-dismisses-plea-against-power-water-subsidy-imposes-cost-on-petitioner/story-CC390q3jpzCdwmFissCzkK.html
29-07-2020||City||No death reported on Monday at Delhi’s biggest Covid hospital, Lok Nayak||For the first time in nearly four months, Delhi’s biggest treatment facility for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) – the 2,000-bed Lok Nayak hospital – did not report a death on Monday. “No death in our biggest COVID hospital LNJP yesterday,” tweeted chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe hospital has been recording a couple of deaths daily since it started treating Covid-19 patients in March. The number of deaths had shot up to 10 to 15 a day in June when Delhi had seen a surge in the number of cases. Delhi reported 28 Covid deaths on Tuesday, taking the toll due to the viral disease to 3,881, according to Delhi government’s daily bulletin.According to data shared by the chief minister’s office earlier this month, the daily death toll due to Covid-19 in Delhi had reached 101 in June. In comparison, Delhi recorded 27 deaths on average every day during the last week. “We have been recording one or two deaths every day at the hospital as we get the critical patients here – many referred from other centre and in need of ventilation. Even on Sunday, two deaths had been recorded at the hospital. Monday was the first day since the hospital started treating Covid-19 patients that no deaths were reported. The figures were reported to the government today morning,” said Dr Suresh Kumar, director, Lok Nayak hospital. To be sure, the fewer deaths could be a result of fewer admissions at the hospital – only 412 of the 2,000 beds in the hospital were occupied as on Tuesday evening, according to the Delhi corona app. The availability of ICU beds, newer treatments, and plasma therapy for the patients has helped in bringing down the fatalities, Dr Kumar said. The hospital currently has 255 ICU beds – with and without ventilator. “In June, there were fewer ICU beds in the hospital and a large number of patients. Now, we are admitting anyone whose disease is likely to deteriorate in the ICU, ensuring close monitoring. All my doctors have also been working very hard to monitor the patients,” said Dr Kumar. He added that the hospital has also started using the experimental drug Remdesivir, aiding the recovery of the patients. “Our plasma bank has also ensured that anyone in need of plasma therapy is able to get it improving the clinical outcomes of the patients,” he said. Lok Nayak was the second hospital to set up a convalescent plasma bank, after the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences. However, its bank unlike the one in ILBS, does not provide plasma to patients admitted to other hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-death-reported-on-monday-at-delhi-s-biggest-covid-hospital-lok-nayak/story-Qpx0bTlIEoZCt6yMaxt5NI.html
29-07-2020||Delhi||Amid financial crises, admission withdrawals in many low-cost private schools, fewer enrolments in entry-level classes||Several private schools in the national capital have witnessed fewer enrolments in entry-level classes this year amid the Covid-19 pandemic. According to the school managements, many parents have even dis-enrolled their children, citing financial constraints triggered by a nationwide lockdown to contain the pandemic.A majority of these private schools are low-cost ones charging monthly tuition fees between ₹600 and ₹1,300 per student and catering to the children of lower-middle-class families. Hari Prakash Sharma, the chairperson of New Happy Public School in Narela Mandi, said they have 80 seats in entry-level classes—nursery, kindergarten and Class 1. “We have received only six or seven admissions this year as of now. It’s never happened before. Parents of at least 80 students have withdrawn their wards’ admissions in the last two months, citing financial issues. We do not know how we will survive this year since we are not even receiving fees from all students. We cannot even pay our staff,” he said. The school offers education up to Class 8 and charges ₹1,100 tuition fees per student per month.There is a similar situation in several other schools. Dharampal Sehrawat, the chairperson of Shiva Model School in Bawana that offers classes up to Class 10, said that they have received no admission to nursery and kindergarten this year. “We do not have a nursery class this year. A majority of students who were promoted from nursery to kindergarten have left. At least 10-15 students have applied for transfer certificates (TCs) in every class. We are in terrible shape now. The overall enrolment has drastically reduced this year,” he said. The school charges ₹800 tuition fees per student per month.Priyanka Gulati, the principal of Evergreen Public School that has primary branches in both Mayur Vihar-1 and Acharya Niketan, said that both the branches have received very few admissions this year. “Every year, all our sections are usually full by this time. But this year, we only have a handful of admissions in both branches. It will be a major challenge to run two branches with such a thin strength this year. We do not know how we will retain our staff,” she said.In some schools in rural areas of Delhi, parents of as many as 20%-30% students have withdrawn their admissions. Pradeep Vats, the chairperson of Marigold Public School in north-west Delhi’s Katewara, said that 30% of the 1,400 students enrolled in their school have left. The school offers education from nursery to Class 12 and charges between ₹1,300 and ₹2,500 in tuition fees per student per month. “Many parents have said that they won’t be able to pay the fees this year citing financial crises. They have said they will enrol them in government schools,” he said.Anuradha Mehta, the principal of Red Roses Public School in Saket, said, “Many parents of students in junior classes have applied for a TC and a few have already left without it. We also have seats vacant in nursery, which is unprecedented.”Among the parents, who have withdrawn their children from private schools, is Mahesh Kumar who was working in a factory in Gandhi Nagar till March. Kumar has lost his job due to the economic slowdown caused by the Covid-enforced lockdown. His two children—a son (10) and a daughter (9)—were studying in a private school till March. “I am not in a position to pay the school fees this year. I am waiting for government school admissions to begin. I will enrol y children in a government school this year,” he said.While government schools are yet to begin non-planned admissions, the three civic bodies—north, east and south—started the admission process in their schools on July 20. Students who migrate from MCD to Delhi government schools in Class 6 are called ‘planned admissions’, those who migrate from any other school to any class are called ‘non-planned admissions’. An advisor to Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia, who requested anonymity, said that the government will soon start the admission process in its schools. “The migration of Class 6 students from MCD schools to Delhi government schools is already completed. We will soon start admission to other classes as well. There is a huge possibility of private schools students moving to government schools in large numbers this year. Also, parents now know that government schools in Delhi are equally good or even better than several private schools,” the advisor said.Principles of several municipal schools said that this year they have admitted several students who were earlier studying at private schools in the neighbourhood. Lalit Ahuja, the principal of the south civic body school in Aya Nagar, said, “We admitted a few students from private schools in almost every class within a week of the commencement of admissions. We are also getting calls from parents who want to shift their children from private schools. We will get a clear picture by the end of August.”Meanwhile, some parents are also switching from expensive private schools to affordable private schools. Simple Bedi, a single mother of a Class 4 student, has been out of work since March. The resident of Ashram was working as a trainer in a gym. She has moved her son from a prominent south Delhi school to another private school this year. “I was not able to afford the fees in the previous school. There is a difference of ₹6,000 in the monthly fees of both the schools,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/amid-financial-crises-admission-withdrawals-in-many-low-cost-private-schools-fewer-enrolments-in-entry-level-classes/story-krThOWHQni0DQrGVxQFESO.html
29-07-2020||Delhi||Govt to take a call on continuation of hotels as Covid facilities in Delhi||With the active Covid-19 cases in Delhi at 10,887 on Tuesday, the Aam Aadmi Party government is planning to release several hotels and banquet halls that were converted into extended hospitals since May 29, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s office said on Tuesday. To discuss the matter and take a decision in this regard, Kejriwal is scheduled to chair a meeting with the health and revenue departments on Wednesday.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageOn June 12, when Covid cases in the Capital were surging, the Delhi government released a list of 77 banquet halls and 40 hotels that were to be converted into Covid facilities to quickly make up for the lack of hospital beds. A total of over 15,800 beds were planned to be provided in the listed hotels (4,628 beds) and banquet halls (11,229 beds). The plan was approved by the Delhi government on May 29, when it had identified five hotels to be converted into extended Covid hospitals. These hotels included Crowne Plaza which was attached to Batra Hospital; Hotel Surya (Apollo); Hotel Siddharth (BL Kapur Memorial Hospital); Hotel Jivitesh (Sir Gangaram Hospital); and Sheraton Saket (Max Super Speciality Hospital).Of these, only Sheraton hotel in Saket operated as an extended hospital for the longest time, the rest of the hotels did not receive any patients.“We have 16,038 Covid beds in various hospitals and 12,996 are vacant even now. Since we have beds available in hospitals, we were getting a lot of requests from different hotels and banquet hall owners to delink or relieve their facilities from Covid duty. Now that the situation seems to have stabilised a bit, a meeting has been called to decide exactly how it is to be done and from when,” said an official in the chief minister’s office on condition of anonymity. The official, however, said that the delinking will happen only in a phased manner as the situation may worsen any time.The government has also consistently warned against complacency and the need to adhere to safety and distancing norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/govt-to-take-a-call-on-continuation-of-hotels-as-covid-facilities/story-aQQLbXCrsRWyE4dnt34zcO.html
29-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi police head constable shoots himself in the head, dies||A 34-year-old Delhi police head constable died after allegedly shooting himself in his head inside his car at an isolated spot on Tuesday morning, the police said. Atul Kumar Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (south), said that the head constable was battling depression, most likely due to his elder brother’s liver ailment. “He hasn’t left behind a suicide note, but we suspect that his brother’s ailment left him depressed because of which he took the extreme step,” said the DCP, adding that inquest proceedings in the death have been initiated. The policeman was originally from Rajasthan, where his wife and two children live. In Delhi, the head constable lived in the police barracks. He was posted at a south Delhi police station. “On Tuesday morning, he left the barracks in his WagonR car and reached his beat area. There, we suspect, he shot himself in his car using his service revolver,” said the DCP. The police were alerted of the death by a passerby who saw a bleeding man lying in the driver’s seat of the car that was parked at an isolated spot in the area around 11 am. “ So far, there is no evidence of involvement of foul play by anyone,” said the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-police-head-constable-shoots-himself-in-the-head-dies/story-85uaClvFKQpgOr5Oxw9quK.html
29-07-2020||Delhi||Kejriwal reviews road redesign project, deadline for pilot run extended||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday reviewed an ongoing project under which all 100-feet wide roads in the city will be redesigned. The deadline for the pilot-run of the project which includes tree plantation, pavements, bicycle tracks, pedestrian lanes, and creating parking space for vehicles along the roads has now been pushed to from December 2020 to August 2021 in view of the delays due to the Covid pandemic.Delhi, according to officials of the Public Works Department (PWD), has around 500km of road stretches that are more than 100 feet wide. All of these stretches are part of the renovation and redesign project, for which architects have taken inspiration from cities in Europe. “The chief minister today asked for a detailed plan on redesigning of 500 km of roads from PWD within three weeks. The roads will be redesigned on Build–Operate–Transfer (BOT) model, under which the construction company will have the responsibility to maintain the road for 15 years. Deadline of the pilot project for seven roads has been extended to August 2021 due to Covid. Earlier, December 2020 was the deadline,” said a statement issued by the chief minister’s office.Seven road stretches selected for the pilot run of the project include the stretches between AIIMS to Ashram Chowk and Mayapuri to Moti Bagh intersection on the inner Ring Road, part of Vikas Marg, the stretch between Wazirabad depot to Rithala metro station, Ambedkar Nagar to Defence Colony flyover on the BRT stretch and from Britannia Chowk to West Enclave on the Outer Ring Road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kejriwal-reviews-road-redesign-project-deadline-for-pilot-run-extended/story-oRjE6JucpZLMxRFPP1GkSO.html
29-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Homeless man rapes woman in Red Fort area, held||A man allegedly raped a 23-year-old woman inside a park near Red Fort on Saturday night and kidnapped her two-year-old daughter, who was later found. The police said the woman and the man are homeless and live in different city parks and shelter homes. The woman told the police that the man had hit her head with a stone when she tried to resist the assault and also kidnapped her daughter. The police said they were passing by the park on Saturday night when they heard the woman’s screams. The 30-year-old alleged rapist, also homeless, was arrested on Monday. The police said that on Saturday night, the team reached the spot and took the woman to the hospital. The woman had alleged at the hospital that the man had kidnapped her two-year-old daughter after assaulting her. “She said the man injured her by hitting her with a stone when she resisted the attempt and kidnapped. Based on her statement and following a detailed medical examination, a case of rape and assault and kidnapping was registered under the Indian Penal Code,” an officer said, wishing not to be named. “However, the woman’s daughter was found the same night close to the area where the woman lives. Some locals found her and brought her home. The man has been booked for kidnapping as well but we are probing if he tried to kidnap the girl,” added the officer, who requested anonymity. The officer said the Red Fort is part of the high-security zone of the capital and preparations for Independence Day on August 15 have already started. “Every day, the area is checked by security personnel, including paramilitary forces. This is how the woman and the man were spotted by them and she was rescued,” he added.Deputy commissioner of police (north) Monika Bhardwaj said a police team was deployed to search for the suspect who fled the spot. “Our teams checked CCTV camera footage and spoke to other vagabonds living in that area and identified the man. He was arrested on Monday,” Bhardwaj said. The DCP said the man has no previous criminal involvement. Five days ago, last Friday, an eight-year-old girl sleeping next to her grandmother outside their home in North Delhi was kidnapped and raped. The police managed to arrest the suspect two days later on Sunday using the survivor’s description. He was identified as a street vendor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/homeless-man-rapes-woman-in-red-fort-area-held/story-NViPBa4L5uFxMVonraHKTP.html
29-07-2020||Pune||With men yet to return from hometowns, women hit working floor in PCMC||Pune: Women employed in small scale industries located at Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) Bhosari are enjoying a bigger role in handling machines as men labourers are yet to return from their hometowns in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. “Women were employed in small scale industries even before the lockdown period. Now, many companies are training them for machine work and giving them more responsibilities which is a good initiative,” said Sandeep Belsare, president, Pimpri-Chinchwad small-scale industries association. The absence of men on work floor is also benefitting women, who were earlier given the task of cleaning and sweeping works, financially. “I am getting higher wages now and given additional work like welding these days,” said Sharada Kadgale, who works at Hansraj Industries. Kartik Gowardhan, owner of Hansraj Industries that is into manufacturing of silver contracts, copper flexible links, carbon brushes and holders , insulators, industrial fabrication and import substitute, said, “We have employed eight women and they are learning works that was earlier done by men.” According to a Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA) survey on economic activity, there are 48 per cent of employees working in small scale industries since the resumption of economic activities. “In Bhosari, around 38 women are working on machines. Some will undergo three-month training to run Computer Numerical Control machines (CNC). Many are also learning wielding work,” said Abhay Bhor, president, Forum of Small Scale Industries Association. Few women are learning vehicle repair work to support their family. “I used to drive E-auto before the coronavirus situation hit my earnings. I am now learning mechanical work at Avant Auto Care and Services under Durga Bhor. I plan to start an automobile repair shop,” said Savita Vairahi, who was an autorickshaw driver. “As not many women are working in vehicle repair sector, it is a good sign that they are showing interest,” said Durga. “Around eight women trained to operating CNC machines at my place and one is my employee now,” said Vaibhav Jagtap, proprietor of Shree Sai Enterprises who are manufacturers of moulds, press tools, jigs, fixture and precision works. Plan to start business Many women who plan to start their businesses are provided assistance by Forum of Small Scale Industries Association. “We help them in completing the government formalities before starting their business. The state government provides 50 per cent subsidy to women who want to start their business,” said Abhay Bhor, president, Forum of Small Scale Industries Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-men-yet-to-return-from-hometowns-women-hit-working-floor-in-pcmc/story-pZWPEXZ9Y9UugzVsmahlXP.html
29-07-2020||Pune||Covid waste a health hazard in Pune in the absence of guidelines||Pune: Lack of awareness on Covid waste segregation by those advised home quarantine is posing a risk of infection to waste pickers in the city, said health activists and citizen groups. The activists cite lack of policy or standard operating procedure (SOP) for households and residential societies as one of the main reasons for spreading virus fears among those who collect waste. Dhairyashil Vandekar, president, Vithalrao Vandekar Foundation, has petitioned Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar to issue SOP on handling Covid waste for households and residential societies at the earliest. “Patients with mild symptoms or no symptoms are being home quarantined for various reasons, including shortage of hospital beds. However, it is seen that many of those under home isolation are unaware that Covid waste is to be treated as biomedical waste and PMC has put in a place a separate mechanism to handle the waste. This lack of knowledge may result in such biomedical waste being handled by waste pickers, and along with their contacts, being susceptible to the deadly virus,” stated Vandekar in his petition. Vivek Velankar, a health and civic activist, said that in the absence of specific guidelines, cases of non-segregation of Covid waste are being reported. “PMC must educate housing societies, waste pickers and fine violators as public health is at stake due to the spread of the contagion,” he said. The activists cite cases where masks and gloves of Covid patients are being dumped with regular dry waste in the absence of guidelines. Dnyaneshwar Molak, Pune Municipal Corporation’s solid waste management head and joint commissioner, said his department is handling the additional load of Covid waste being generated by home quarantined patients. He said a designated team with 15 vehicles at its disposal is collecting this waste. “We are addressing the complaints regarding non-segregation of waste in residential societies,” said Molak. Citizen activist Sonali Patil of Katraj Citizens Committee said, “PMC must collect Covid waste from residential societies on a daily basis, which is not happening in some areas. Residents should also act responsibility and segregate waste.” Activists bat for awareness Briefing of isolation protocol of home quarantined patients and other house members by PMC within 6 hours of the patient being home quarantined The patient be provided with waste disposal kit, including colour coded double layered waste bags Detailed specific SOP/guidelines by PMC with regard to disinfecting, handling and management of Covid waste by households, residential societies in coordination with PMC Chairperson, secretary and members of societies should be made responsible for strict adherence of SOPs Display of information by societies about a home-quarantined patient staying in the building to forewarn delivery boys, SWaCH waste pickers, milk and newspaper delivery agents and visitors. Name and contact numbers of ward officials along with other officers responsible for collection of Covid waste must be displayed on society’s notice board||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-waste-becomes-a-health-hazard-in-pune-as-hsg-societies-mix-it-with-regular-waste-in-absence-of-guidelines/story-vEWl4puWEiwilksSTxtE8I.html
