30-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi doctor tele-consults with chronically ill Assam man on a boat after he is cut off by floods||A man with severe liver cirrhosis (scarring due to chronic liver diseases), who was cut off from hospitals and cellphone network due to the recent floods in Assam, was given a tele-consultation by doctors from a city hospital after his wife and friend managed to get him on a boat and take him to an area with network coverage. The patient, Lalchand Biswas, who lives near Guwahati, was semi-conscious,had breathing difficulty and had a swollen abdomen two weeks ago. He was stuck in his house because of the floods and hadn’t been able to visit a doctor or get the medicines needed to stabilise his condition. “I work for an outreach programme under which I had examined the patient in February or March. I got a distress call from Biswas’s friend Mohfisur Rehman who informed me of his condition. I thought of giving him a tele-consultation immediately but he was in an area where there was no cellphone network. So Rehman arranged for a small boat and carried Biswas and his wife to a place where we could get reception,” said Dr Ushast Dhir, consultant, department of surgical gastroenterology and liver transplant, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital. He had hepatic encephalopathy – a decline in brain function as a result of severe liver disease leading to a build-up toxins in the blood stream, the doctor said. “When we started the video call, I had to show Rahman how to do an abdomen examination. I was able to establish that he had severe disease and needed immediate treatment. I prescribed him medicines. The challenge was not only to get the medicines – as many hospitals and pharmacies were closed – but also to administer it,” said Dr Dhir. As Rahman is a pharmacist, he was able to get the medicine within the hour. “He also knew how to administer the medicines and it was done on the boat itself. Biswas was monitored for six hours, with another dose of the medicine being given at a three-hour interval,” said Dr Dhir. Currently, the hospital, through some philanthropic organisations, has been able to ensure supply medicines for a month to Biswas. “What we are trying to do is to get help from various organisations to bring Biswas to Delhi for a liver transplant. That is the only option left as his disease has progressed,” he said. The flood situation in Assam improved further on Thursday though one more person lost his life taking the toll to 108 in the calamity, an official bulletin said.According to the daily flood report of Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) one person drowned in the flood water in Mikirbheta area of Morigaon district on Thursday taking the toll to 108.The toll in the landslides triggered by the flood stood at 26 taking the total number of deaths to 134, it said.The ASDMA reports said over 12.01 lakh people are in the grip of floods in Dhemaji, Lakhimpur, Sonitpur, Biswanath, Darrang, Baksa, Barpeta, Chirang, Bongaigaon, Kokrajhar, Dhubri, South Salmara, Goalpara, Kamrup, Kamrup Metropolitan, Morigaon, Nagaon, Golaghat, Jorhat, Majuli, Sivasagar and Dibrugarh districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-doctor-tele-consults-with-chronically-ill-assam-man-on-a-boat-after-he-is-cut-off-by-floods/story-C4tPBcYrwcnFo1uxauOLKN.html
30-07-2020||Delhi||HC seeks responses on plea against appointment of minorities’ panel head||The Delhi High Court on Thursday sought the response of the Centre, the lieutenant governor and the Delhi government on a plea seeking that no one be appointed to the post of Delhi Minorities Commission (DMC) chairman which became vacant recently.A bench comprising chief justice DN Patel and justice Prateek Jalan issued a notice to the authorities and sought their stand on the application by August 31, which has contended that since the constitutional validity of the DMC Act has been challenged in the high court, no one should be appointed to head the commission till the matter is decided.The application has been filed by Vikram Gahlot, a social worker, who, in his main petition, has challenged the constitutional validity of the Act under which the commission has been set up.Advocate Dhananjai Jain, appearing for Gahlot, told the court that as the constitutional validity of the Act has been challenged, no one ought to be appointed to head the commission.Gahlot challenged the constitutional validity of the DMC Act in the wake of allegedly controversial social media posts made by the commission’s former chairman Zafarul Islam Khan.Gahlot, in his petition, contended that the Delhi Legislative Assembly did not have the powers to enact the DMC Act and therefore, the statute be declared ultra vires of the Constitution and struck down.He has also contended that since the Act was not valid, the appointments made under it, including that of the chairman, would also be invalid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hc-seeks-responses-on-plea-against-appointment-of-minorities-panel-head/story-MLwTGHErcyZwRmhBDvudXL.html
30-07-2020||City||Day after SC rebuke, IIT-B signs MoU to build smog towers in Capital||New Delhi The Indian Institute of Technology – Bombay (IIT-B) has signed an agreement with the Central government to construct a smog tower on an experimental basis in Delhi within 10 months to curb air pollution. The development came a day after the Supreme Court passed harsh remarks against IIT-B and the Centre for violating its January 13, 2020 order and threatened contempt action for breaching the earlier deadline of three months to install the first such tower at Connaught Place. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, informed a bench headed by justice Arun Mishra that after Wednesday’s hearing, the Centre contacted IIT-B and the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with IIT-B to complete the smog tower project in 10 months. Mehta also said the University of Minnesota in Minneapolis, U.S, would provide the drawing for the tower in two months. Irked by the deadline getting pushed ahead, the bench, which also comprised justices BR Gavai and Krishna Murari said, “We will not tolerate this laxity. Is this the way you must be dealing with this matter…..Why are the drawings not ready till today when our order of January 13 said it should be completed within three months. While passing that order, we were informed that drawings are ready. Only dispute was with respect to the time to set it up.” With the IIT-B director present during the hearing through videoconferencing, Mehta told the court that the query about drawings should be directed to IIT-B. To this the bench replied, “Our direction was to your ministry. It’s a government project and you must make it work. You make it fait accompli by putting the blame on IIT-B. There seems to be no intention on your part to comply with our order even now.” The S-G requested time till Tuesday to present the entire plan on affidavit. He informed the court that the MoU between CPCB and IIT-B was digitally signed, a copy of which will be presented. The bench allowed the prayer and posted the matter for Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/day-after-sc-rebuke-iit-b-signs-mou-to-build-smog-towers-in-capital/story-OYEOodo3GUnZF642pgEG6L.html
30-07-2020||Delhi||DU’s responsibility to provide scribes to visually impaired students, says high court||The Delhi high court on Thursday pulled up Delhi University (DU) for its lack of preparedness in providing scribes to visually impaired students and said it is the responsibility of the varsity to provide scribes to such students. The court also observed that of the 1.82 lakh final-year students, who registered on the university portal for the first phase of the mock test that started on July 27, only 22,372 completed the entire exam process.DU is holding online exams in the open-book format (OBE) for final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students as a one-time measure amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Despite opposition from both students and teachers, DU has scheduled the online exams between August 10 and August 31. In OBE format, students have to download the question paper from an online portal and once they are done taking the exam, the answer sheets have to be scanned and uploaded. The university gives each student three hours for the entire process.A bench of justice Hima Kohli and justice Subramonium Prasad expressed its displeasure over the abysmally low number of students being able to complete the exam during mock tests and said it was “not comfortable with this figure”. The court’s remarks came while hearing pleas by law student Prateek Sharma and National Federation of Blind (NFB) seeking to set up effective mechanisms for visually impaired and specially abled students.On Thursday, DU filed an affidavit stating that 182,237 students had registered for online exams of whom 70,101 had logged in for the first phase of mock tests which started from July 27. DU said 39,159 students attempted the exams and only 22,372 could submit their answer sheets. With respect to persons with disability (PwD), the varsity told the court that 834 such students had registered for the OBE and only 142 could complete the exam process.Appearing for DU, senior counsel Sachin Datta, told the court that the mock test was conducted to familiarise the students with the online exam process and that they had given different subject papers to students. He said students may have got question papers that were not of their subject and hence they could not complete the exam.To this, the court said, “Why would you think that students would be able to answer something which is not of his/her subject?”.Senior advocate SK Rungta, appearing for NFB, told the court that several students could not take the exams for want of a scribe. He said 60 students had given a request to the varsity to provide them scribes -- 58 wanted the scribe at home, while two wanted them at the CSC (common service centre). The DU counsel told the court that they can only provide scribes at the CSC and not at home. The court said there was a “complete mismatch of information” after it was informed by the CSC director that they would only facilitate exams and would not have anything to do with scribes.“Look at the plight of the student. Several students are sitting outside Delhi. Let’s not forget that even if the metropolitan cities might have facilities, the other remote areas would not have proper connectivity. The paltry number of students having completed the exams against those registered raises some curiosity (sic),” the court said. The matter will next be heard on August 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/du-s-responsibility-to-provide-scribes-to-visually-impaired-students-says-high-court/story-6UBjmmXVwhnpDikiIGT6nN.html
30-07-2020||City||Three nabbed for robbing DU employee’s house of ₹14 lakh cash, gold||New Delhi: Three men were arrested on Thursday for robbing over ₹14 lakh cash and jewellery after barging into a Delhi University employee’s house and assaulting him and his mother on Monday afternoon, the police said. According to Rakesh Paweriya, deputy commissioner of police (crime branch), it was a relative of the victims who “unintentionally and accidentally” told one of the suspects about the presence of cash and jewellery in the house. The DU employee, however, said he suspected someone else of being the informer, but refused to share more details with HT. The 39-year-old victim works in the varsity’s administrative department and lives in a two-storeyed house in Dayalpur with his mother, wife and three children. His wife and children had been away when the incident took place — around 3.30pm on Monday. “Five men carrying pistols barged into the house. They cleared the house of ₹14.25 lakh cash, a lot of gold jewellery, some documents, and gadgets,” Paweriya said. The suspects had turned up the TV’s volume and went on to thrash the man and his mother. They then allegedly tied up both of them with bedsheets, stuffed cloth in their mouths and threatened that they would kill the man’s children, if he reported the matter to the police.The DU employee in his police statement said he was afraid of the robbers and decided to approach the police only after his neighbours and relatives convinced him. The police registered a case at Dayalpur police station and began probing the case, but it was the crime branch which got the breakthrough. “On Thursday, we received a tip-off that the suspects would visit Chand Bagh with the loot. We laid a trap and nabbed three men — Mohammad Chand, Javed and Salim. We recovered the robbed cash and jewellery from them,” Paweriya said. The officer said six men were involved in the crime and the mastermind was 30-year-old Chand.“He knew the victims’ family. Some days ago, a relative of the victims mentioned to him about the presence of cash and jewellery in the house. So, he roped in five people to arrange guns and loot the house,” Paweriya said. A hunt is on for the remaining three suspects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-nabbed-for-robbing-du-employee-s-house-of-14-lakh-cash-gold/story-UDOhAv7oPbESFRFuxgtHgO.html
30-07-2020||City||Delhi riots: L-G refers lawyers’ panel issue to President||New Delhi: Delhi Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Anil Baijal on Thursday referred the issue pertaining to the appointment of a panel of lawyers to argue cases from February’s communal riots in the Capital to the President. The L-G also issued an interim order, saying till the matter is resolved by the President the panel of lawyers appointed by the Delhi Police and approved by his office will continue to argue cases. The Delhi government in a statement said that Baijal invoked Article 239AA(4) of the Indian Constitution and referred the dispute to the President, citing “differences of opinion” with the elected government. On Tuesday, the Delhi Cabinet, in its meeting chaired by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, had rejected the panel of lawyers proposed by the Delhi Police, saying it would not help a “free and fair” trial of the cases related to the riots in north-east Delhi. Following this, Kejriwal on Wednesday evening went to meet the L-G to discuss the issue.“The L-G invoked special powers granted to him under the Constitution. The home department of the Delhi government has been ordered to approve the panel chosen by the Delhi Police. The Delhi government will now have to implement the order at any cost as it is mandated by the Constitution,” the statement read.The L-G’s office refused to comment on the matter. On July 10, the Delhi police had sent a proposal to the Delhi government recommending the names of six special public prosecutors including Solicitor General (SG) Tushar Mehta and Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Aman Lekhi to argue 85 cases related to the riots and the anti-CAA protests. But, the Delhi government had rejected Delhi police’s panel and had asked its home department to constitute an “impartial panel of the best possible lawyers in the country” to fight the cases of riots, which claimed 53 lives and left over 400 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-riots-l-g-refers-lawyers-panel-issue-to-president/story-ikPjSyQub5vjRe2RxnxWtO.html
30-07-2020||Mumbai||Before mosque, temple, Ayodhya was Buddhist site: Ramdas Athawale||In the backdrop of the scheduled Ram Mandir bhumi pujan on August 5, Union minister Ramdas Athawale and various Dalit outfits have demanded a grand Buddha Vihar in Ayodhya. Athavale said that the temple area was an ancient Buddhist pilgrimage site, hence a grand Buddha Vihar needs to be constructed in Ayodhya.“Before the temple and the Babri Masjid, there existed a Buddha Vihar. Since the Supreme Court has allowed the construction of Ram Mandir and even allotted a plot for Babri Masjid, we should also be given the plot to construct a grand Buddha Vihar,” said Athawale. He said he would shortly meet Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath to press for his demand.Noted singer Anand Shinde, also urged all Dalit leaders to sink their differences and come together to build the Buddha Vihar. “There were ancient Buddhist artefacts like stupas found during the levelling work of the temple. The Dalit leaders need to come together and work towards constructing a museum and a Buddha Vihar near the site,” said Shinde.Rajendra Gawai who heads the Republican Party of India (Gawai), said Ayodhya will become a symbol of religious harmony. “Ayodhya will have grand places of worship for all three major religions of India,” said Gawai.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of the Ram Temple on August 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/before-mosque-temple-ayodhya-was-buddhist-site-ramdas-athawale/story-0Bn2IA0SMg9QiONGnxLOKI.html
30-07-2020||Chandigarh||Alok Mittal is new Haryana CID chief||The Haryana government on Thursday posted 1993-batch IPS officer, Alok Mittal, as additional director general of police, criminal investigation department (CID). Mittal, who has returned from central deputation in the NIA replaced Anil Kumar Rao, who retired from the service. Mittal’s appointment as the intelligence chief was a foregone conclusion after he was posted as officer on special duty in the CID immediately after his repatriation from the NIA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/alok-mittal-is-new-haryana-cid-chief/story-mZCr7Pz0B1aWa1XHd2W7pI.html
30-07-2020||Mumbai||Brown blanket of smoke in Raigad: MPCB notice to firm||The Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) on Thursday issued a notice to Jindal Steel Works’ (JSW) Dolvi coke oven plant in Pen taluka, Raigad, after residents’ complained of excessive smoke released by the industrial unit, following a power outage.Residents said that thick brown voluminous smoke was released from the plant from 10.30am onwards on Wednesday, leading to yellowish-brown haze for hours in surrounding areas.A JSW spokesperson confirmed that it was for a period of 15 minutes. After the power outage, the plant was shut down but claimed the smoke was not toxic. MPCB said they called for an explanation on the absence of backup smoke emitting mitigation measures and issued a show-cause notice under the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981, Water Act, 1974, and the unit’s consent to operate.“The industry has violated the consent to operate since they did not have alternate electricity supply for their air pollution control equipment. Also, the pollution control system operation was not maintained properly that led to the sudden burst of smoke from coking coal. As a result, there was a huge quantity of emissions released into the environment. It is a potential health hazard for nearby local residents and workers within factory premises,” said JS Salunkhe, regional officer (Raigad), MPCB. Salunkhe added that MPCB plans on penalising the unit to ensure a similar incident was not repeated. “The industry has to explain why they should not be investigated and the entire coke oven plant not be shut down. Based on their response, fitting penalties will be levied,” said Salunkhe. JSW spokesperson said the smoke died down within 15 minutes as soon as the unit operation resumed. “Neither was the smoke hazardous or poisonous,” he said.Irked by the fumes, Dolvi resident Priyanka Tandel filed a complaint with the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) on Wednesday. “Owing to an increase in pollution for several years now, Dolvi, Gadab, Wadkhal, Navegaon, Pen and several other villages are severely affected. Constant smoke causes distress to residents, especially children, the elderly and the sick. The company is playing with our lives but no action has been taken by pollution control state or Central agencies so far,” said Tandel.A resident of Pen-Vashi village Vijay Bhoir, who lives 10 km away from the plant, said, “A radius of 15 km around the plant was engulfed in brown smoke and led to breathing difficulty for my family and I. It took around five hours for the haze to settle down.”Environmental activist Kailash Anerao said, “It is unfortunate that big corporate groups are seen flouting pollution norms repeatedly and pollution control authorities are seen favouring them. If the draft environment impact assessment (EIA), 2020 becomes law then the public will not even be able to raise such issues anymore. The ‘polluters pay principle’ needs to be upheld.”MPCB TO ASSESS POLLUTION DATA FROM JSW TO ASSESS PENALTYAccording to MPCB, the 3.5 million tons per annum (MTPA) capacity coke oven plant is an extension of the 10 MTPA industrial site at Dolvi village, which recovers and supplies by-products like coke fines, crude tar, benzol, sulphur etc. The plant received environment clearance in February 2018 from the Union environment ministry with several conditions including the installation of five continuous air quality monitoring stations for PM2.5, PM10, sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxides, and 22 continuous stack emission monitoring systems. These systems are connected online to the MPCB and CPCB portals. “We will be assessing the pollution data for Wednesday to check the breach of safety standards to finalise the penalty against the unit,” said Salunkhe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/brown-blanket-of-smoke-in-raigad-mpcb-notice-to-firm/story-62QqS2DZcP2DiPSxSvWNTO.html
30-07-2020||Gurugram||Covid-19 drugs racket: Three more pharmacists, some hospitals under scanner||Gurugram Police after initial investigations have stumbled upon the names of three more pharmacists who helped in the alleged smuggling of Covid-19 and cancer treatment medicines to Iraq by four interpreters, who were nabbed on Tuesday. Police said they were also investigating if the arrested suspects had links with certain hospitals.Senior police officials associated with the investigation said on Thursday that the role of some hospitals had come under scanner after vials and injections of remdesivir — an experimental drug administered to Covid-19 patients in emergency situations — were recovered in two raids this week. Investigators said that since remdesivir is directly supplied from manufacturing companies to the hospitals and there are no stockists of the drug, individuals associated with certain hospitals, local pharmacies and their nexus, in procuring and supplying medicines illegally to the arrested suspects, is being probed. The four Iraqi suspects arrested on Tuesday worked as interpreters at private hospitals and allegedly had ‘connections’ with distributors of pharmaceutical products.Aman Yadav, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), Sadar, said, “The suspects have named three more pharmacists, who were allegedly involved in procuring and supplying injections to them. We have also received leads to suggest links with hospitals and an investigation to probe those links has been initiated. There could be other stakeholders involved . The investigation is now focused on making more arrests for which raids are being conducted.” On Wednesday night, the police had arrested a pharmacist, identified as Pardeep, who runs a medical store in Jharsa sector 38, for allegedly supplying remdesivir injections to the Iraqi suspects. Eighty four vials of Remdesivir, which the pharmacist had hidden in a room adjacent to a tubewell in his village near Pataudi, were recovered after a raid by police and officials of drug control department. Police said during questioning, Pardeep had named a Delhi-based supplier, from whom he had purchased the injections for Rs 15,000 per vial and then sold it to an Iraqi interpreter for Rs 18,000 per vial, without an invoice. The Iraqis had paid him Rs 15 lakh for supplying 84 remdesivir injections, which were supposed to be smuggled to Iraq through medical tourism patients. In Iraq, a vial of remdesivir, which costs Rs 5400 in India, is sold for Rs 1 lakh. A police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “Based on inputs given by the pharmacist, a team had conducted a raid late on Wednesday night to trace the alleged supplier of remdesivir, but he was not found at the location shared by the accused.” Police said that two of the Iraqi suspects had earlier claimed that they had sourced some of the medicines from Kolkata, but in sustained questioning, they did not reveal any contacts or location of their supplier. “The suspects have not shared any specific location in Kolkata and have only mentioned names of a contact in Kolkata and one in the city, who was their supplier for the past six months,” said another police officer. Meanwhile, the pharmacist, Pardeep, was produced in a district court on Thursday and remanded to police custody for two days. Two Iraqi suspects arrested from sector 57 are currently in police custody till Saturday, while other two Iraqi nationals were remanded to two more days of police custody. On Tuesday, the police had arrested four Iraqi nationals in two separate raids from sector 47 and sector 57 after the drug control department had received a tip-off. Forty eight vials of Remdesivir, 55 strips of Fabiflu (Favipiravir) and 18 packs of Lopikast — the three drugs used in the treatment of patients infected with SARS-CoV-2 virus — among a large cache of antibiotics, antacids, anti-allergic and other cancer treatment medicines were recovered in the raid. One SUV and Rs 74.55 lakh cash was also seized. Police probe has found that the suspects had been smuggling medicines to Iraq for at least two years and since the pandemic, they had started dealing primarily in drugs used to treat Covid-19 which were in short supply and sold at exorbitant prices in Iraq.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/covid-19-drugs-racket-three-more-pharmacists-some-hospitals-under-scanner/story-G7rjz9wsQd9B5UIFwOU7mN.html
30-07-2020||Gurugram||Industries in Manesar may have to get all their employees tested||Despite being notified as a large outbreak region (LOR) on July 15, emerging Covid-19 clusters in the industrial belt of Manesar have set the alarm bells ringing for the health department and the district administration alike. Labour and health department officials said the thrust is upon ramping up the testing in those areas where workers live. A proposal has also been floated that every industry will have to get its workers tested through antigen kits, the cost of which will be borne by the employer.According to the health department, in July, more than 100 Covid-19 cases have been reported from Manesar. Cases have been reported in under three Primary Health Centres - Manesar, Bhangrola and Kasan. The health department did not share the total number of cases reported since the industries have been allowed to resume in the region.A meeting in this regard was held on Wednesday among officials of the district administration, the labour department, the health department and the industrial association of the region. “The thrust is going to be on increasing the testing in the area. Companies have been asked to get their employees tested on their own by paying for the antigen test cost. But this is not compulsory. The health department is also holding testing camps in the area. The overall focus is on increasing the testing,” said Dinesh Kumar, deputy labour commissioner, Manesar.Confirming the move, Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer(CMO) said the proposal is yet to finalised. For this, the notification is likely to be issued by the district administration, he said.The industry association, on the other hand, has expressed disapproval for the proposal to get all the employees tested. “There are more than four lakh workers in Manesar. Testing each one of them is nearly impossible. Each antigen kit costs almost ₹510 and the test is valid for only two weeks. Getting employees tested twice a month is not feasible. It will be an added cost,” said Manmohan Gaind, general secretary, Manesar Industries Welfare Association. He said that protocols issued by Union ministry of home affairs to run industries with appropriate social distancing measures are sufficient enough. Gaind, who has a unit of home furnishing in Manesar said that any worker who has cough and cold or any Influenza Like Illness (ILI) are not kept with other employees. It is only after three days the worker is allowed to resume work only after getting the Covid-19 test.The health department has also been conducting rapid antigen testing camps in areas like Bhangrola, Kasan and Aliyar where most of the industrial workers live. “Tests are being conducted in several pockets of Manesar. In Bhangrola alone, more than 47 coronavirus cases were detected in July. The target is to aggressively conduct the antigen testing of symptomatic and high-risk cases with ILI and Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) in these areas,” said Yadav, mentioning that a plan is being prepared. According to medical officers in three PHCs, over 30 testing camps have been organised in each of them. To figure out the prevalence of infection in industrial pockets, Yadav said that they will have to start with a sample size to decipher the positivity rate of a particular area. “Pockets have to be identified where the test positivity rate is around 5-10% to cut the chain of coronavirus transmission. To accelerate the process, a proposal has been floated with the administration to set up testing booth in the Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) building.”Deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, who was present in the city on Thursday to hold meetings on labour issues, was asked about industrial areas in Gurugram emerging as Covid-19 clusters. He said, “Due to Covid-19, industries were shut in the last week of March and in April. But they could not remain closed for a long time as economy had to be restarted. Lockdown cannot be imposed if industries are to run to maintain the demand and supply. To tackle the Covid-19, the deputy commissioner is authorised to designate containment areas as he deems fit.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/industries-in-manesar-may-have-to-get-all-their-employees-tested/story-AeES1HhSl0AC3zrQSJOHPK.html
30-07-2020||Gurugram||‘One Nation, One Ration Card’ scheme, mobile depots to ensure fair distribution: Chautala||To provide ration to needy people and bolster the public distribution system (PDS) of the state, the Haryana government may introduce mobile ration depots in densely populated areas, where conventional fair price shops often fail to meet the demand. Dushyant Chautala, deputy chief minister, Haryana, announced the proposed plan on Thursday, while speaking at a programme on the ‘one nation, one ration card’ scheme. Later Chautala also distributed ration to migrants workers from other states at John Hall in Civil Lines. “Existing fair price shops are unable to meet the demand of the people. As such, mobile ration depots can be set up to serve in the densely populated areas of the state, in addition to the existing fair price shops,” said Chautala, while addressing the gathering. He added that an example of this mobile unit has set by the food supplies department at John Hall, which distributed free ration to the migrant workers, who had gathered at the programme, from a mobile unit set up specifically for this purpose. Addressing the gathering, the deputy CM said that the new ration scheme will have three significant benefits for the poor, who avail ration at subsidised rates from the government-designated shops. First, any ration card holder will be able to take his or her share of ration from any ration depot wherever ration is available. Second, any ration card holder, irrespective of the state to which he or she belongs, will be able to get his/her share of prescribed ration from any other state as well. Third, the ration card holder can also get the ration from the depot of his choice by assessing the quality and quantity of the ration being offered, said Chautala. “The problems faced by migrant workers to avail ration during the Covid-19 lockdown led to the idea of ‘One Nation, One Ration Card’ scheme. The facility of keeping a digital record by attaching a POS machine with an e-weighing machine has also been started in Haryana. With this, the public distribution system in the state is now being digitally monitored,” he said. Under the scheme, the beneficiaries would be able to get his or her share of entitled foodgrains from any fair price shop in the country. The scheme was introduced in four states in 2019 as a pilot project. and at present has been implemented across 20 states in India. Under this scheme, a standard ration card with biometrics records of the holder has been prepared that can be used across the country, said officials. Haryana was among the first states to have implemented the scheme.  Director, Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Department, Dr Chander Shekhar Khare, said that this scheme will curb the problem of fake ration cards, while ration depot holders will also be prompted to give good quality ration in full quantity. Khare also informed that this scheme will be implemented in the entire country by March 2021.Benefits for Contractual WorkersEarlier in the day, the deputy CM also chaired the second meeting of the State Advisory Contract Labour Board held at the PWD Guest House.In the meeting, Chautala said it has been decided to link all registered sites and organisations employing contract labour with the Haryana Udyam Memorandum (HUM) within the next six months. With this move all contract workers, especially construction workers will have to be registered which will help them get all the benefits prescribed under the Employee’s Provident Fund (EPF) rules and Employee’s State Insurance (ESI) Act, he said.It was also decided in this meeting that, in the next 6 months, it will be ensured that all organisations employing contractual labour have a HUM number. Under this, the registration of contractors and workers will be done with their Aadhaar number. The labour department will also confirm that every such organisation is registered. After February 1, 2021, if any contractor or organisation is not found registered, then strict action will be taken against it, he said.The second important agenda in the meeting was to allow employment of contract labour in the units related to the rubber industry. In this case, it was decided to invite suggestions from all industrial associations and trade unions, following which the labour board will take a decision.A number of trade union representatives also called upon the deputy CM and apprised him of the grievances faced by workers particularly because of the lay-offs during and after the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/one-nation-one-ration-card-scheme-mobile-depots-to-ensure-fair-distribution-chautala/story-UoQIpfGPp4HZeKYVyN8hYI.html
30-07-2020||Mumbai||Ensure PMC depositors get their money back: Patole to state, RBI||Maharashtra Assembly speaker Nana Patole has directed the state government and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to ensure that all depositors of Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) Bank get back their money back.After hearing grievances of the depositors, Patole asked the RBI to come up with a revival package, similar to the one for YES Bank. He also asked the state co-operative commissioner to act swiftly to restore the confidence of depositors.Patole further said the economic offences wing (EOW) should ensure that the culprits are not spared.PMC Bank depositors contended they are finding it hard to run their households, especially in view of the lockdown, since their entire savings was locked up in the bank since September 2019. Most of them are working class or small-scale entrepreneurs.The RBI had imposed restrictions on the bank in September 2019 alleging financial irregularities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ensure-pmc-depositors-get-their-money-back-patole-to-state-rbi/story-2WV0eYLwkjpLwFwadoMvfL.html
30-07-2020||Gurugram||Criminal action against officials if found involved in illegal registries: Haryana deputy CM||Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Thursday said that criminal action would be taken against officials found involved in illegal registration of property deeds in the state. On Wednesday, the state had asked the criminal investigation department (CID) to look cases of small agricultural land being sold off without the requisite no-objection certificate.Chautala said the government was contemplating bringing an ordinance to plug loopholes in the law being used to carry out such illegal property deeds. Once the probe is over, the government would also revise the illegal registeries that have been carried out in violation of section 7A of Haryana urban areas act, he said. “An inquiry is being conducted into the matter of illegal property deeds being registered not only in Gurugram but other parts of the state as well. All those involved in these irregularities, whether they are revenue department officials, officials from town and country planning department, urban local bodies or others who have facilitated these violations, will not only face suspension but criminal action would be initiated against them,” said Chautala, while interacting with media persons at John Hall in Civil Lines. Chautala’s statement assumes significance as registries in violation of rules have been allegedly carried out by the revenue department even during the lockdown period. An RTI reply filed by a city based activist had also revealed that between April 20 to May 4, 129 such registries were carried out by the district revenue department. It was because of these revelations that Haryana government has ordered a ban on registry of properties from July 22 to May 17. On Wednesday, the CM Flying Squad, which is a wing of state CID department, said that it was probing the matter related to illegal registries and information had been sought from the revenue department in this regard. When asked why irregularities pertaining to departments he was holding such as excise and revenue were being exposed, Chautala said that this was due to the fact that he was prompt in taking action against the violations. “These irregularities are brought out in the open and strict action is taken against the culprits instead of brushing these matters under the carpet, which shows we mean business and are transparent,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/criminal-action-against-officials-if-found-involved-in-illegal-registries-haryana-deputy-cm/story-4YpvKNpwr5RMANt94g2mLI.html
30-07-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram admin allows some hotels to serve alcohol to guests in room||The Haryana excise and taxation department has given its nod for serving liquor in star-rated hotels in the city starting Thursday, officials said. The decision was taken by the department after receiving a representation from the hotel owners’ associations, asking for permission to serve alcohol in rooms at least. The excise officials said the permission has been granted only for three-star, four-star and five star hotels. Restaurants, pubs, and bars will continue to be prohibited from serving liquor for now.The officials said that they received requests from eight hotels so far and they have granted permission to all of them.Though, all star hotels would be allowed to serve liquor in rooms, they will need to apply for permissions individually. HC Dahiya, deputy excise and taxation commissioner (West), said that the permissions were granted to those who have paid the liquor licence fees for the quarter. “The hospitality sector has faced a disastrous situation with revenues plunging amid the Covid-19 outbreak. To revive the economic situation, the government has taken a step to support the liquor industry as it has been one of the biggest revenue-generating sectors,” he said. Officials said the hotel association of Gurugram had written to the department in June requesting them to waive their liquor license fees as they have been shut since March 25, when a lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19 was first put in place. Aruna Singh, deputy excise and taxation commissioner (East), said that they had already waived one-third of licence fees, bringing it down to Rs 2 lakh, to support the hoteliers. “The hotels were also not allowed to serve or store liquor in rooms for guests so far. We had issued strict directions not to keep liquor in the room fridges also. Most of the hotels have stayed shut except for those listed under quarantine facility,” she said. The officials said there are 21 hotels across the city which are classified under star category. There are nine 5 star hotels, seven four star hotels and five 3 star hotels, which can soon resume serving liquor to guests. Restaurants were given permission to resume their operations at 50% capacity from June 8. Bars, however, remained shut. Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, said that the hotels have now been given permission to start taking bookings and to start their operations. The bars in such hotels will stay shut while the restaurants will need to adhere to the standard operating procedures regarding the preventive measures that have already been put in place. “Anyone found violating the guidelines will be dealt with strictly,” he said. Rohit Mann, director of Clarens Hotel in Sector 29, said that the business will pick up now as people would prefer to come to establishments that serve liquor to them. “The industry has suffered huge losses and this will start helping us recover some losses. Though, it will take at least three more months to get back to normal. People have started making online booking and we are getting at least 10 bookings a day from locals,” he said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-admin-allows-some-hotels-to-serve-alcohol-to-guests-in-room/story-gYZuxMcWW5bMx4DVOddxsI.html
30-07-2020||City||20-year-old stabs man, arrested||Ram Nagar police on Thursday arrested a 20-year-old man for attempt to murder after he allegedly stabbed a 29-year-old man. The incident took place after victim’s younger brother allegedly eloped with the accused’s sister. The accused, Rahul Sonar, a resident of Samtanagar of Dombivli, and his family were opposed to his 22-year-old sister’s relationship with Karan Mahadik’s younger brother Manish. The couple, however, eloped. “Manish’s family didn’t know about this till Sonar reached their house on Tuesday. He got into an argument with the family members and stabbed Karan in a fit of rage and fled,” said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/20-year-old-stabs-man-arrested/story-m6X2c4tYrFnWrxfzLeWojM.html
30-07-2020||City||No takers for hotel isolation in Ghaziabad, people prefer to stay at home||The hotel isolation facilities for asymptomatic Covid-19 patients in Ghaziabad has not received a single patient since the option was allowed by the state government on July 17.Two hotels in Bajaria were made isolation facility with a rent of ₹1,500 per day for single occupancy and ₹2,000 per day for double occupancy, besides a one time payment of ₹2000 for government health services. “Initially we got a lot of queries -- almost 50 a day. However, three days later when the government allowed home isolation, the calls stopped suddenly. We had spent some money on making arrangements at the hotels but home isolation obviously turned out as a preferred choice,” said Ved Yadav, owner of the hotels in Bajaria.“With no patients, we had to withdraw from providing isolation facility and now run our hotels normally, although customer turnout is low due to Covid-19.”On July 20, the UP government allowed home isolation for asymptomatic patients based on several conditions, including a nod from the district administration. According to officials, 120 patients opted for the scheme and 104 of them were allowed by the district administration. “Our rapid response teams carefully screen the patients. So, the response is a bit low at present but it will pick up,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. “However, there have been no takers so far for the hotel isolation facility which was also a low cost option for patients. But people have preferred the home isolation. Even the hotel owners have almost withdrawn from the scheme.”The home isolation scheme has also increased the utility of ‘Nigrani Samitis’ that were formed in every district to help the state keep track of symptomatic cases and monitor whether health protocols were being followed. “We have now dedicated a team in our control room which will be in touch with Nigrani Samitis twice a day. The idea behind this is to help us trace more symptomatic cases and get them tested at the earliest,” Pandey said. The district has about of 286 of these ‘Samitis’, with those in urban areas having three members, including the local councilors, while those in rural areas have 10-12 members each. The state government has also allowed for funds to the districts in order to any contingency. “The chief minister has directed that districts with over 2.5 million people be provided with ₹5 crore each, while the rest be given ₹3 crore each. This will help the district to take fast decisions in case they need to procure equipment, medicines or wish to make any payments at local level,” said Awanish Awasthi, UP’s additional chief secretary (home). For the purpose, the state government has directed that a committee comprising of the district magistrate, chief medical officer and the chief development officer to be formed in every district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-takers-for-hotel-isolation-in-ghaziabad-people-prefer-to-stay-at-home/story-a9pmKyDgHBn4j96ZAUzlXN.html
30-07-2020||Noida||District to prepare fresh merit list for appointing staff to Sector 39 district hospital||Following a scuffle and protests on Wednesday claiming irregularities in the appointment of 243 contractual paramedical and security staff to a Covid-dedicated government hospital at sector 39, the Gautam Budh Nagar district administration appointed an officer to supervise the appointments. The appointment of paramedical staff to the sector 39 hospital has been under controversy ever since the tender for hospital’s staff was cancelled by the then acting chief medical officer (CMO) Dr. Nepal Singh on June 14 citing some irregularity in the process. The district health society (DHS), of which the district magistrate (DM) is the ex-officio chairperson, then directed a private vendor agency to provide the personnel on contract till a new tender is ready. On Wednesday evening, when the applicants from the previous tender protested, district magistrate Suhas LY asked for a fresh merit list. “We have received some complaints about the irregularities in the selection process of the candidates. We want the entire appointment process transparent and merit-based. Chief development officer Anil Kumar Singh has been made the nodal officer. Under his supervision, the fresh merit list will be prepared and the appointment will be done only on the basis of merit,” he said. When contacted, Anil Kumar Singh, the CDO, said that the process of preparing fresh merit list has already begun. “Very soon, all the appointment will be done as per the merit of the applicants without any bias or favour,” he said. CMO Dr. Deepak Ohri said all the appointments will be made as per the government orders in this connection.The 400-bed Covid hospital, developed by Tata Project Limited (TPL) at the new district hospital building, will serve patients with moderate complications as well as those with mild symptoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/district-to-prepare-fresh-merit-list-for-appointing-staff-to-sector-39-district-hospital/story-qlfBMpzTxl7Vf9IZcfl75O.html
30-07-2020||City||After wife’s death, 27-year-old kills aunt in Titwala||A 27-year-old man murdered his aunt in Titwala on Tuesday suspecting that she had done some black magic on his wife leading to her death, eight days ago. Kalyan Rural police arrested the accused on Wednesday night. According to police officers, the accused, Mohan Wagh, lost his wife eight days ago to illness. His wife had been sick for a few months and got paralysed a few days before her death. The man’s aunt, Gulabbai Waghe, 44, would often get into fights with the accused’s wife and cursed her. Senior inspector Balaji Pandhre said, “The accused went to his aunt’s house to confront her. They got into an altercation during which he stabbed her and fled. The woman was taken to nearby government hospital where she narrated the crime to a police officer and identified the accused. She later succumbed to her injuries. We have arrested the accused for murder under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-wife-s-death-27-year-old-kills-aunt-in-titwala/story-qGcI7Lfcl8Pdi5tLJyib8I.html
30-07-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Rakhi, sweet shops can open this Sunday; prohibitory orders extended to Aug 31||The Ghaziabad district magistrate on Thursday allowed sweet shops and shops selling Rakhis for the upcoming festival to remain open on Sunday. Apart from this, the DM extended prohibitory orders in the district up to August 31. However, only those Rakhi and sweets shops will be allowed to open which are located outside containment zones.At present, markets can open from 9am to 9pm for five days in a week while they are closed on Saturdays and Sundays, due to a weekend curfew imposed by the Uttar Pradesh government for taking up cleanliness and sanitization drives across districts.“Keeping in mind the upcoming festival, we have allowed shops selling sweets and those selling Rakhis to open on Sunday, which otherwise is a closing day for markets, so that residents can make purchases for the festival. However, they will have to adhere to the health protocols while maintaining social distancing and wearing masks. The shopkeepers are also to take up required measures as directed earlier,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate, Ghaziabad. He added that the prohibitory orders were extended due to approaching festivals. “The prohibitory orders have been extended up to August 31 due to festivals. Anyone who flouts directions will face legal action,” Pandey added. Besides, night curfew will continue to be in place from 10pm to 5am, though the central government had relaxed this rule but had left it up to states to decide for themselves. The Ministry of Home Affairs had issued new guidelines on July 29 for opening up of more activities in areas outside containment zones. In Unlock 3, which will come into effect from August 1, 2020, the process of phased re-opening of activities has been extended further. Under the Centre’s new guidelines, the restrictions on movement of individuals during night (night curfew) have been removed besides the opening of Yoga institutes and gymnasiums will be allowed to open from August 5.“The states and Union Territories, based on their assessment of the situation, may prohibit certain activities outside the Containment zones, or impose such restrictions as deemed necessary. However, there shall be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods. No separate permission/ approval/ e-permit will be required for such movements,” the directions by the MHA had said. The UP government is expected to issue Unlock 3 guidelines for the state on July 31. “We will take a call on Unlock 3 guidelines once the state government issues directions,” Pandey added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-rakhi-sweet-shops-can-open-this-sunday-prohibitory-orders-extended-to-aug-31/story-258I0qpJL5HcgxFV4I2ciK.html
30-07-2020||City||Man strangles wife, dumps drum with her body in valley||A 28-year-old Rabale resident allegedly murdered his wife, packed her body in a drum and threw it in a 20-foot deep valley near Khopoli on July 23. The police arrested the man and his friend on Wednesday.The arrested accused, Ambuj Tiwari, allegedly murdered Neelam Tiwari, 22, and dumped her body with the help of his friend Shrikant Choube, 30. Tiwari, who got married to Neelam two years ago, killed her out of suspicion, said police. A case was filed after Tiwari’s father approached Rabale police on July 23 to file a missing complaint. “His father tried to call Tiwari and Neelam, but both were unreachable for two days. He then went to their house, but it was locked. We started the investigation based on the missing complaint.” Tiwari was traced near Ghansoli on July 28. “We questioned him about their whereabouts, but he gave evasive answers and tried to mislead us. He did not give a proper explanation regarding his missing wife. Later he was brought to Rabale police station for further investigation,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Pankaj Dahane. Tiwari later confessed to the crime on Wednesday.Dahane said, “He confessed to killing his wife Neelam by strangling her with a dupatta in his friend Shrikant Choube’s house around 5.30am on July 23. Choube was not at home at the time of the incident. Tiwari was suspicious of his wife and murdered her over it. After killing his wife, he took Choubey’s help to dispose her body. They put the body in a plastic drum and threw it in bushes near Khopoli village along Mumbai-Pune highway.” Following his confession, Choube was arrested. Police have also recovered the drum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-strangles-wife-dumps-drum-with-her-body-in-valley/story-S4pjNZkOGcmubPmM3ltrMN.html
30-07-2020||City||Speed up tracing exercise, test all contacts, nodal officer directs Ghaziabad officials||The Uttar Pradesh government-appointed nodal officer on Thursday directed Ghaziabad officials to complete the pending works of tracing and early testing of the contacts of coronavirus (Covid-19) patients, and also directed for a one-day special surveillance drive in order to detect cases of influenza like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) in containment zones. The official further directed that the suspect cases found during the drive should be tested with the help of Reverse-Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) test, considered the golden standard in testing for Sars-Cov-2. The one-day drive is to be conducted on Friday. The nodal officer, Senthil Pandian C, on Thursday took a review of all Covid-19-related measures in Ghaziabad and asked officials to expedite pending works.According to official records, out of 4,855 total cases till morning of July 30 (as per live portal data), 23,138 contacts of 4,701 positive cases, with a rate of about 96.84%, were traced. Going by the figures, the average contact per positive patient is about 4.9. Of the 23,138 contacts traced, about 90.4% were also tested, said officials of the district health department. “The nodal officer took review of contact tracing and appreciated our efforts. The rate of contact tracing in Ghaziabad is high and we have planned that the pending work of contact tracing will also be traced and if required, the help of police surveillance will also be taken up. Further, we had also shifted focus on immediate testing of contacts in order to control the spread of the infection. At times, we found cases where mobile numbers or addresses of contacts were not found correct or they move to other cities. So, sometimes it leads to delays,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.“Our dedicated teams at the control room are working hard to increase the rate further. A majority of cases have come up in the month of July and the rate of contact tracing in July is almost touching 96%. Besides this, we are also focussing on fast uploading of contact tracing data on the state government’s portal,” said Pandey. According to officials, a total of 2,918 contacts of 3,052 patients were traced from July 1 to July 29 (95.6%), which resulted in tracing of 14,243 contacts with 4.88 contacts per patient and about 92% were also tested. For the one-day special drive in containment zones, the nodal officer also directed the Ghaziabad officials to mandatorily take up RT-PCR tests of cases of ILI and SARI in containment zones. From July 2 to July 12, the UP government had also directed a special door-to-door surveillance drive during which suspected cases of ILI and SARI were also identified and 150 of these were found positive after testing. “The nodal officer directed that a one-day special drive is to be carried out in containment zones having a high number of cases, and cases of ILI and SARI should be scanned. He especially directed that instead of antigen tests, such cases should be tested only with RT-PCR test. Friday has been decided as the day for holding the drive. This shall continue till further orders,” the DM added. According to official figures, about 2,50,618 households were surveyed from July 13 to July 29 (after UP government’s special surveillance drive from July 2 to July 12), covering a population of about 9,85,498 persons. Officials said they identified 237 cases of ILI and 233 of SARI cases and 19 of the total tested positive for Covid-19. According to the official figures till Thursday morning, the health department so far has completed total testing of 95,361 tests, out of which 4,856 have tested positive so far since the first week of March, when the first Covid-19 case was detected in the district. At present, the district has an overall positivity rate of about 5.1% and recovery rate of about 83.7% (4,009 patients recovered) while the fatality rate is about 1.3% with a total of 64 deaths so far. According to the latest list of July 27, the district has 80 containment zones in category 1 (having one positive case) while 186 others were listed under category 2 zones (having more than one case).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/speed-up-tracing-exercise-test-all-contacts-nodal-officer-directs-ghaziabad-officials/story-I4XIWb13jBm16BOMCafewK.html
30-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC serves notice to market committee chairman over illegal encroachment||The Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) has served a notice to chairman of market committee, Darshan Lal Baweja, after receiving complaints of him encroaching a portion of the road outside his under construction multi-storey building in Gandhi Nagar. The notice, a copy of which is with HT, has been served to remove the encroachment, a pavement on the road outside the building. MC officials also marked the encroachment on Thursday. Earlier, the MC had also sealed the building for illegal construction.Despite repeated attempts, Baweja, could not be reached for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-mc-serves-notice-to-market-committee-chairman-over-illegal-encroachment/story-SFhRfcPMePdMF6sNgqT3oI.html
30-07-2020||City||Palghar lynching case: CID to file report against 11 juveniles||Maharashtra Criminal Investigation Department (CID) is set to file a report before the juvenile justice board, Bhiwandi against 11 juveniles arrested in connection with the April 16 lynching case wherein three people, including two seers, were lynched to death by a mob of tribals. “We may file the report within a week as CID has sufficient time to file the charge sheet. We are putting it together,” said Atulchandra Kulkarni, additional director general (ADG), state CID. Earlier in July, two charge sheets were filed in the case before a Dahanu court. A total of 126 accused were named in the two charge sheets, which are set to be heard on August 4, said sources in CID. According to the charge sheets, the incident took place amid rumours of kidnapping for illegal sale of organs and child lifting in the area which led to the mob mistaking the seers and their driver as child-lifters. It further mentions that CID is currently looking for evidence against 28 arrested accused, who were mentioned in the first information reports (FIRs), to name them in the charge sheet. So far 154 people have been arrested in the case.Kasa police have examined 226 witnesses and detained around 808 suspects for questioning in the case, said Amrut Adhikari, counsel for the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/palghar-lynching-case-cid-to-file-report-against-11-juveniles/story-S6SPRHv4w5h2ZGKnV94tGK.html
30-07-2020||City||2 women died by suicide in separate incidents||Two incidents of death by suicide of two women in their twenties were reported from Dombivli and Bhiwandi in the last two days. In the first incident, the 26-year-old woman had shifted to Palava township in Dombivli, eight months ago, and she was staying alone. D Choure, senior inspector of Manpada police station said, “The watchman of the building informed us about the incident. We have contacted her family members to get further details and have registered an accidental death report in the case.” In the second incident, a 22-year-old woman from of Nizampura, Bhiwandi died by suicide on Wednesday evening. Nizampura police officers said, “We received the information from her relatives about her death. We have registered an accidental death report. Her parents or relatives have not registered any complaint against anybody.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-women-died-by-suicide-in-separate-incidents/story-8PG1LDd0olh2My9u98ygZP.html
30-07-2020||Noida||20-year-old, friend held for kidnapping two-year-old cousin||A 20-year-old man was arrested by the Sector 49 police on Thursday along with an 18-year-old friend for allegedly kidnapping his two-year-old cousin on July 28.The boy was kidnapped from outside his house in Sarfabad village and was rescued from a park within four hours.The two suspects were identified as Piyush Yadav, the boy’s cousin, and Juber (single name). The toddler had gone missing from outside his house around 9.30 am on Tuesday. A couple of hours later his father, Sandeep Yadav, had received a call around 12.30 and the caller said that his son had been kidnapped and would be harmed following which he had filed a complaint with police. The boy had been rescued from a park in Sector 72 around 1.30pm and a case had been registered at the Sector 49 police station. The police were on the lookout for the kidnappers.“Piyush lives in the same house as the child as it is a joint family. Some 10 days ago, he and his friends had come up with a plan to kidnap his cousin. When Piyush saw the infant playing alone, he took him and handed over to his friends and came back to the house. The boy was taken to a friend’s house in Sector 45,” said Dharmendra Kumar Sharma, station house officer, Sector 49 police station.However, when his friends called the family and the police reached the spot subsequently, Piyush got scared and asked his friends to let go of the boy. His accomplices then left the boy in the park and fled the spot.“The father has recognised Juber as the caller. One more person was involved in the kidnapping, but he is on the run and a search is on for him. The mobile phone used to make the call has also been recovered,” said the SHO.Police officers said that Piyush is unemployed and was looking to make quick money with the kidnapping. “He wanted to take a ransom of ₹1.5 lakh, but never got around to it after police intervention,” said Sharma.The two suspects were arrested from Sarfabad itself and produced before a magistrate before being sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/20-year-old-friend-held-for-kidnapping-two-year-old-cousin/story-oodt1AZaWDZkxILLAqHjcK.html
30-07-2020||City||HC allows Punjab pvt schools to deposit ‘continuation fee’||Chandigarh The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday allowed 100-odd private schools in Punjab to deposit continuation fee for 2020-2021. The order was passed by high court bench of justice Sudip Ahluwalia on the plea of Punjab Private School Organization, a Patiala-based body, with 102 members across the state, which had challenged the June 12 instructions of the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB). Their counsel, PK Goklaney told court that PSEB has imposed an unacceptable condition that depositing of the continuation fees from the institution would be permissible only if the private schools concerned give an undertaking on certain norms put in place by the government. The response from the PSEB and state government has been sought by September 22.The PSEB charges continuation fee of Rs 10,000 for up to matric and Rs 20,000 for up to senior secondary from the schools. However, this year, they were told that only those schools would be permitted to deposit the fee, who sign the undertaking. Otherwise, they were not allowed to deposit the fee, which would result in closure of schools on March 31, 2021. In the undertaking, the schools had to comply with certain conditions by December 31, 2021. The conditions included having classrooms of specific size, number of rooms, according to level of the schools. Conditions have also been imposed on installing labs, following school fee and syllabus norms and having a playground. The approved site plan and the Change-in-Land-Use (CLU), in this regard, had to be deposited with the PSEB. The high court while allowing schools to deposit fee without the undertaking, said that such deposit would not automatically grant them the right of continuation, and would be dependent on the result of this petition in court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hc-allows-punjab-pvt-schools-to-deposit-continuation-fee/story-AWsUtMzg8477aOrk65PZyK.html
30-07-2020||City||Hooch shadow on 7 deaths in Amritsar village; SIT formed, SHO suspended||Amritsar Police formed a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe the death of seven villagers who died allegedly after consuming countrymade liquor in the last 24 hours. Six labourers and a farmer of Muchhal village, 30km from here, died between Wednesday night and Thursday evening after falling ill in a mysterious manner. Five of the victims were cremated without a post-mortem. Taking note of the seriousness of the matter, senior superintendent of police (rural) Vikram Jeet Duggal placed Tarsikka SHO Bikramjit Singh under suspension for negligence. A woman resident of the village was also arrested on the suspicion of selling homemade liquor. Those dead were identified as Dalbir Singh, 60; Balwinder Singh, 55; Kuldeep Singh, 24; Mangal Singh, 52; Baldev Singh, 45; Kashmir Singh, 75, and Kala Singh, 45. An eighth person, Joga Singh, 28, is critical at a private hospital. Joga Singh’s nephew Gurjant Singh said, “My uncle’s condition is serious. He and others had consumed homemade liquor on Wednesday night.” Villagers and the kin of the victims blamed the authorities, saying little was being done to check the sale of illicit liquor which was available at dirt-cheap price in the area. SSP (rural) Duggal said, “So far, six deaths are confirmed. We have arrested Balwinder Kaur of Muchhal on the suspicion of selling illicit liquor. A case under section 304 (culpable homicide) has also been registered against unidentified people at Tarsikka police station. SP (investigation) Gaurav Toora will lead the SIT to investigate the matter,” the SSP added. Sarpanch Rajwinder Kaur’s husband Daljit Singh said that illicit liquor and intoxicants were a big problem in the village. “We have been lodging police complaints regularly,” he said. He, however, claimed, these deaths were unrelated to the menace. On why the panchayat didn’t ask the police to conduct the post-mortems, Daljit said, “The police had asked the victims’ family members to allow autopsies, but they didn’t agree.” However, some people claimed police pressured families to cremate the dead. “Police reached the victims’ houses and pressured the families to conduct cremation and demands of some villagers for post-mortem were ignored. Family members of the victims say homemade liquor led to the deaths,” said Baz Singh, former sarpanch of the village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hooch-shadow-on-7-deaths-in-amritsar-village-sit-formed-sho-suspended/story-441ThbNnNh38ykbFksCGPJ.html
30-07-2020||City||NRI arrested under UAPA by Punjab Police gets bail||A sessions court here on Thursday granted bail to NRI Joginder Singh Gujjar alias Goga (65) of Akala village in Bholath, who was arrested by Punjab Police on July 2 under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Amendment Act (UAPA) for his links with pro-Khalistan group SFJ.Additional sessions judge Rajwinder Kaur ordered that the applicant/accused is an old-aged heart patient, who has been in jail since July 2, 2020, thus he is not required for the purpose of custodial interrogation.Moreover, he has already spent a sufficient period of incarceration and no useful purpose shall be served by detaining him behind bars for indefinite period, especially in the prevailing situation of Covid-19 pandemic, the judge held, allowing the bail application filed on behalf of Goga against bail bonds of ₹1 lakh.Bholath DSP Jatinderjit Singh state before the court that ever since Goga’s arrest, no evidence to connect him to SFJ or any other unlawful organisation has come to light.Earlier, Bholath MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira had written letter to CM Capt Amarinder Singh against Goga’s arrest and demanded his release citing he was falsely implicated in the case.Goga was arrested under sections 10 (a) and (b), 11, 13 (1) and 17 of the UAPA for allegedly being a prominent and active member of the SFJ, which was declared an unlawful organisation by the Union home ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nri-arrested-under-uapa-by-punjab-police-gets-bail/story-uKDTflCeoAlSYL7mbvaeKP.html
30-07-2020||Chandigarh||Under fire for ‘profiteering’, Punjab to now provide plasma for free||Amid controversy over the Punjab government putting a hefty price on “donated” plasma to treat Covid-19 patients in private hospitals, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday announced that the life-saving blood component will be provided free of cost to all those in need.Amarinder directed the health department to strictly ensure that Covid-19 patients are not charged for plasma therapy and that nobody is allowed to buy or sell plasma, which has proven a life-saver in many cases in the absence of a cure for the infection. The state government had on Sunday decided to make plasma available to private hospitals from its plasma bank at a cost of ₹20,000 per unit. A notification was also issued in this regard.However, the move drew all-round flak, especially from opposition parties which accused the government of profiteering. Aam Aadmi Party state president Bhagwant Mann even announced to stage a state-wide protest on Friday against the government move to sell donated plasma at an astronomical rate to coronavirus patients undergoing treatment in various private hospitals in the state.In his statement, the chief minister also appealed to the recovered patients to come forward to save the lives of others. He urged all deputy commissioners (DCs) and health department officials, during a review meeting on Thursday, to motivate such patients to donate plasma. Currently, there are around 10,000 recovered Covid-19 patients in the state.The CM also asked the health department to expedite setting up of two new plasma banks in Amritsar and Faridkot to supplement the one already operational in Patiala. He was informed by medical education minister OP Soni that the approvals for the new banks have already been received and tenders are being floated for the procurement of equipment.Chief secretary Vini Mahajan suggested that all the field officers, including DCs and SSPs, should remain at their headquarter towns even at night for the next two months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/under-fire-for-profiteering-punjab-to-now-provide-plasma-for-free/story-k5NZgKLQk4fqiaL5TvdLaO.html
30-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab hikes ex-gratia for kin of fallen soldiers to ₹50 lakh||The Punjab government has increased the ex-gratia compensation given to the next of kin of fallen soldiers.A spokesperson of the defence services welfare department said the total amount to be paid to next of kin of soldiers killed in action has been increased to ₹50 lakh. In case of a married soldier, ₹35 lakh will be paid as ex-gratia, ₹10 lakh as additional relief to parents and ₹5 lakh as cash in lieu of plot. In case the soldier was unmarried, the next of kin will be paid ₹45 lakh as ex-gratia and ₹5 lakh as cash in lieu of plot.The spokesperson added that the amount to be paid to disabled soldiers in various operations has been increased fivefold. Now, ₹20 lakh will be given to soldiers with 76% to 100% disability, ₹10 lakh for those with 51% to 75% disability and ₹5 lakh in case of disability ranging 25% to 50%.These increased rates would be applicable to the battle casualties with effect from June 15, 2020. The finance department has also approved to disburse 10% of the total amount of ex-gratia (₹5 lakh) at the time of bhog ceremony and the remaining 90% to the kin after receiving battle casualty report from the integrated headquarters of the defence ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-hikes-ex-gratia-for-kin-of-fallen-soldiers-to-50-lakh/story-UZfCV0MLXBrEONNhGepzuN.html
30-07-2020||Chandigarh||Elderly woman held for thrashing, tying grandson to tree in Ludhiana||An elderly woman was arrested on Thursday for thrashing her 9-year-old grandson and tying him to a tree.The accused has been identified as Badami Devi, 60, a native of of Khushi Nagar, Uttar Pradesh, currently living in Neechi Mangli village, Ludhiana.The victim has been admitted to ESIC hospital and injury reports are awaited.Inspector Mohammad Jamil, SHO at Focal Point police station said that Jaswinder Singh of Premium Complex lodged a complaint that Devi used to thrash her daughter’s son, Ansh, and chain him to a tree under direct sunlight.On Tuesday, when the woman thrashed the boy again and chained him to the tree, Singh informed police. The locals rescued the child and rushed him to the hospital. The woman managed to escape but was arrested from her relative’s house in Kohara-Sahnewal road on Thursday.An FIR was registered under Sections 323(voluntarily causing hurt) and 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) of Indian Penal Code and Section 75 of Juvenile Justice (care and protection of children) Act at Focal Point police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/elderly-woman-held-for-thrashing-tying-grandson-to-tree-in-ludhiana/story-yJL5hb6ZwHflWTiWMcpizH.html
30-07-2020||Chandigarh||Unlock 3.0: Punjab CM seeks DCs’ views on opening gyms, coaching centres||Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday said the final decision on opening of gyms and coaching centres, and other relaxations in Unlock 3.0 will be taken after detailed deliberations on inputs received from the deputy commissioners (DCs).During a review meeting (through video-conferencing) with the DCs and health officials on Covid-19 containment and management arrangements, the CM said while the central government has announced certain relaxations, including permission for gyms and coaching centres, as per the Unlock 3.0 guidelines, he will decide on the same after an assessment of the ground situation. He asked the DCs to think through and submit their views to chief secretary Vini Mahajan.Taking serious note of reports of violation of social distancing and other Covid-19 protocols by some shopkeepers, Amarinder directed the DCs to order shutdown of shops for three days in the case of first offence and more number of days for subsequent violations. He further asked the DCs to strictly enforce all safety protocols and norms, including wearing of masks and social distancing, to check the spread of the pandemic.Dr KK Talwar, who heads the expert committee advising the state government on health and medical education, said scientific data shows that wearing of masks is as effective as lockdown, as it not only prevents spread of infection but also lowers mortality. DGP Dinkar Gupta, who was also present, said from March 23 to July 29, a total of 14,384 FIRs have been registered and 19,850 persons arrested for various violations. Another 5.50 lakh persons have been fined for violation of the Covid-19 guidelines.Expressing grave concern over the increasing mortality, the chief minister called for concerted efforts to bring down the fatality rate. “With early detection being the only cure, the message of early treatment has to go down more effectively,” he said, directing the DCs to take all steps necessary to create awareness among people to go for testing at the first sign of illness.Given the spiralling cases, he said, all DCs should work closely with the health department and police to secure the willing cooperation and support of people, especially religious and community leaders. The DCs of some of the worst affected districts — Amritsar, Jalandhar, Patiala and Mohali — briefed the meeting on the situation in their respective regions and the measures being taken to monitor, track, test and treat people, according to an official release. Jalandhar SSP said given the social stigma attached to the illness, the district police had made it mandatory for all chemists to report those buying medicines for the treatment of fever and flu.Amarinder suggested the appointment of a dedicated Covid prevention monitor to ensure compliance at every private institution where a number of people are expected to come. He also asked the DCs to take steps for distribution of masks free of cost to the needy, and also make sanitisers and mask vending machines available in public places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/unlock-3-0-punjab-cm-seeks-dcs-views-on-opening-gyms-coaching-centres/story-w3DCIzXLIMgTAtcp7RBDWP.html
30-07-2020||Gurugram||Lokayukta registrar recommends action for delay in multilevel parking||Taking cognisance of a complaint that a multilevel parking in Udyog Vihar, whose foundation stone was laid in 2004 by the then state chief minister Om Prakash Chautala, hasn’t yet come up, the registrar of the Haryana Lokayukta in its report has recommended that action should be initiated against officials who delayed the project.The remarks were made in connection with a complaint lodged by Gurugram-based activist Aseem Takyar, who submitted to the court that despite the urgent need of a multilevel parking in the industrial area, the Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) had failed to develop it for almost 16 years and recently allegedly changed the scope of the land-use and sold it to a private developer for a commercial project.The recommendation by the registrar was made last month and a final order is scheduled to be issued in the matter on August 18.Udyog Vihar is one of the largest industrial areas in the Gurugram-Manesar Urban Complex with around 3,500 industrial units located across its five phases. The parking lot was to come up in Udyog Vihar Phase 5 alongside Vanijya Kunj, which is the office of the agency. However, despite repeated demands of the industrialists the land could never be developed as a parking complex or multi-use commercial complex with parking facilities, said Takyar.“There has been a massive increase in the number of cars coming to Udyog Vihar and there is no commensurate parking space available in the area. I have been fighting for this multilevel parking space for the last several years but nothing has moved. The officials say that a new site has been earmarked but nothing concrete has been offered to entrepreneurs,” he said.The report submitted by the registrar said that the details of the complaint allegedly prove that HSIIDC had approved a multilevel car parking at Udyog Vihar and the report submitted to the court proved that no steps had been taken so far allegedly by HSIIDC with regard to the project.“The comments itself show that the matter has been referred for best use study project and the intention of HSIIDC is not to construct the multilevel parking and intention is to use the said land for these purposes. Lokayukta may consider recommending appropriate action against the officers who are responsible for delaying the construction of multi-level parking project, without reasonable cause,” the report submitted by the registrar said.When asked about the matter, Sunil Paliwal, estate officer (HSIIDC), Udyog Vihar, Gurugram, said that parking is made available to entrepreneurs and visitors on open spaces owned by the agency in different parts of Udyog Vihar. “Parking is made available on first-cum-first-serve basis and there is no shortage of space. As far as an alternative site for multilevel parking is concerned, the matter is under consideration of higher authorities in Chandigarh and a decision will be taken by them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/lokayukta-registrar-recommends-action-for-delay-in-multilevel-parking/story-rAkygfKECUyrMr5SPVKtWN.html
30-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: LIP up in arms against PWD over not re-carpeting Sahnewal-Dehlon road||Protesting against the failure of public works department (PWD) to re-carpet Sahnewal-Dehlon road for over three years, members of Lok Insaaf Party on Thursday dumped muddy water at PWD office in Rani Jhansi road.The protesters rued that it was a symbolic protest to apprise officials of the problems being faced by residents due to potholed roads and accumulated muddy water. Chief spokesperson of LIP, Gagandeep Singh (Sunny) Kainth, said, “The road is in pathetic condition for over three years and accidents take place due to deep potholes. Despite complaints and requests submitted with PWD authorities, no steps have been taken to recarpet the road.”“Even the Congress MLA is not bothered. The lackadaisical approach of the department can be judged from the fact that a few days ago, a senior PWD official asked villagers to stage a protest to wake the department from its deep slumber. We were forced to protest and will continue the agitation till the road is constructed,” he added.Despite several attempts, PWD superintending engineer Kulwant Singh could not be reached for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-lip-up-in-arms-against-pwd-over-not-re-carpeting-sahnewal-dehlon-road/story-sGBYXT8ZATzrTecREHkFiJ.html
30-07-2020||Chandigarh||Mohindra seeks report on illegal constructions in Ludhiana: MTPs deputed to assist add’l commissioner||After local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra sought a report from the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) regarding illegal constructions, by comparing the number of new Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) connections with building plans approved by MC, municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal on Wednesday deputed municipal town planners SS Bindra and Monica Anand to assist additional commissioner Rishipal Singh. As per information, 1 lakh new electricity connections were issued by PSPCL in the last three years.The MC officials said that an internal inquiry regarding the same was already being carried out by Singh. Earlier, in the month of June, the vigilance bureau had also asked the additional chief secretary of the local bodies department to conduct an inquiry in this regard and submit an action taken report. The directions were issued following a complaint filed by RTI activist Rohit Sabharwal who alleged officials of MC’s building branch of corruption and said they allow owners to construct illegal buildings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mohindra-seeks-report-on-illegal-constructions-in-ludhiana-mtps-deputed-to-assist-add-l-commissioner/story-adX3hRRnNtABiwJYDRwafP.html
30-07-2020||Chandigarh||Councillor conducts checking at Covid-19 testing centre in Ludhiana||After Covid-19 testing commenced at three Community Health Centres (CHCs) in Jawaddi, Subhash Nagar and Giaspura, councillor Mamta Ashu conducted an inspection at the CHC in Jawaddi on Thursday.Accompanied by sub divisional magistrate (SDM) Amrinder Malhi, Ashu said that with this service starting at CHCs, the total number of government facilities conducting Covid-19 testing in the district has increased to six. Ashu said that the decision has been taken to avoid rush at any one place and provide testing at the nearest government facility. Earlier, testing was being conducted only at Ludhiana Civil Hospital, Mother Child Hospital near Vardhman Mills on Chandigarh Road and Meritorious School near Nehru Rose Garden. Testing is done at police lines for police personnel and at Central Jail for inmates/undertrials. Mobile teams conduct tests in containment/micro- containment zones.Ashu asked residents to visit their nearest government hospitals for testing immediately if they feel symptoms of Covid-19. She said residents should follow all instructions/guidelines issued by the Punjab government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/councillor-conducts-checking-at-covid-19-testing-centre-in-ludhiana/story-KxxtBvIOxwGfxgSrl5OKwN.html
30-07-2020||Chandigarh||Four booked for assaulting store manager in Panchkula||Four people were booked on Wednesday for trespass and assaulting a store manager.Two of the accused have been identified as Sagar, Saravjeet and the others are yet to be identified.The case was registered based on the complaint of Bansi Lal, a resident of Mori Gate, Manimajra, and manager at Budget Bazaar in Mansa Devi Complex, Sector 5. He said that at 8.30pm on Monday, he was in his office with four colleagues and there were no customers in the shop. The complainant said that Sagar and Saravjeet, who also run a shop in MDC-5, came inside the shop and started abusing him and saying their business was affected because of this shop. Lal said that in the meantime, Sagar called two more persons, who started abusing and hitting them.He added: “When my face started bleeding, they stopped and left after threatening to kill me if I came across them again.”Following this complaint, a case was registered at the Mansa Devi Complex police station under Section 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention), 452 (house trespass after preparation for hurt, assault, or wrongful restraint), 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code and investigation is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/four-booked-for-assaulting-store-manager-in-panchkula/story-oiqBLCitZnPOunrt8REhIL.html
30-07-2020||Chandigarh||20-year-old held for theft bid in Chandigarh||A 20-year-old man was arrested on Wednesday for attempting to steal from the house of a Sector-42 resident. The accused has been identified as Deepak, a resident of Attawa village, Chandigarh. The complainant, Kulwinder Singh, said he returned from office at 8pm and put his belongings in the lawn outside his house as per Covid-19 safety measures. Singh said that he heard a noise from outside after some time and saw the accused in the lawn. He raised the alarm and the accused fled, but was caught by the complainant’s family members. Police reached the spot and the complainant’s purse was recovered from his possession. A case was registered at Sector 36 police station and the accused was produced before a court that sent him to judicial custody. During interrogation, he confessed to committing a burglary at a house in Sector 35, Chandigarh, and stealing a mobile phone from there. A case was registered for this at Sector 36 police station on July 24. The stolen mobile was also recovered from his possession. The accused also has a theft case registered against him at Sector 34 police station in 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/20-year-old-held-for-theft-bid-in-chandigarh/story-i9TOhxFZjNkIO4w7oRuCoL.html
30-07-2020||City||Ludhiana crosses 3000-mark with 142 new Covid-19 cases, death toll reaches 82||The number of coronavirus positive cases in Ludhiana crossed the 3,000-mark on Thursday with the addition of 142 cases, the health department said.The case count in the district now stands at 3028. The active cases stand at 1,037.Those tested positive include, ten healthcare workers, all of them working in private hospitals. High drama was witnessed at a private multi-specialty hospital on Barewal Road when three staffers, including a nurse, were tested positive. This triggered panic and the OPD services were halted immediately. The patients were told to visit some other hospital and the fumigation was carried out in the hospital. The death toll mounted to 82 with four patients—two from Ludhiana, one each from Jalandhar and Patiala— succumbing to the virus on Thursday. Those who died of the virus include a man, 35, from Bhatian village. He died while undergoing treatment at Deep Hospital in Model Town on Wednesday night. Besides, a man,65, resident of Dhuri Line in Ludhiana, died of the virus at Government Rajindra Hospital in Patiala, a 54-year-old woman from Patiala and a woman, 70, from Jalandhar who died at Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMC&H) today. A 52- year-old auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM), a resident of Lohgarh in Barnala, who was posted in Kalsa village in Raikot died at Government Rajindra Hospital in Patiala died of Covid-19 today. The virus has claimed 31 lives in Ludhiana in the last six days. The city had reported seven deaths on Saturday, while two deaths were reported on Sunday. As many as five people lost the battle with the virus on Monday, while six deaths were reported on Tuesday. The contagion claimed nine lives on Wednesday. 1000 cases reported in eight daysWith Covid-19 cases in Ludhiana breaching the 3000-mark on Thursday, the district has witnessed a pronominal doubling rate. The city recorded 200 Covid-19 cases on June 1, two months after the first case was reported on March 24. From 1,000 cases in a month (between June 1 and July 5), the cases doubled to 2,000 in just 17 days on July 22. This has once again reinforced the significance of complying with Covid-19 protocols, such as social distancing, wearing masks in public and frequently sanitising or washing hands. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said that a total of 157 patients (142 new patients from Ludhiana district and 15 from other states/districts) have tested positive in the last 24 hours.He said that now, the total number of cases in Ludhiana reached 3,028, while 432 patients are from other districts/states. He added that to date, a total of 61,304 samples have been taken, of 56,044 tested negative while report of 1800 samples is pending.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-crosses-3000-mark-with-142-new-covid-19-cases-death-toll-reaches-82/story-WHxza5CrvfqwG6u11gDCIM.html
30-07-2020||Dehradun||Covid-19 positive cases cross 7,000-mark in Uttarakhand||With 199 new Covid-19 cases, Uttarakhand on Thursday crossed the 7,000-mark, taking the state’s tally of total cases to 7,065. According to the health bulletin released by the state health department on Thursday evening, 199 fresh cases included maximum 74 from Dehradun district. The other districts reported, Almora (1), Bageshwar (2), Chamoli (6), Champawat (17), Haridwar (47), Nainital (26), Pauri (4), Pithoragarh (9), Rudraprayag (3), US Nagar (3) and Uttarkashi (7).The state also reported deaths of four Covid-19 positive patients. A 21-year-old male Covid-19 patient died at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Rishikesh on Wednesday due to refractory septic shock. Two deaths were reported from Sushila Tiwari Government Hospital in Haldwani. A 36-year-old female patient died due to acute respiratory failure, renal failure, uremic and anoxic encephalopathy and bilateral pneumonitis. A 53-year-old male patient died on Wednesday of acute respiratory distress and shock. Another 64-year-old female died at Doon Medical College on Wednesday due to respiratory failure with hypokalemia, bilateral pneumonitis with diabetes mellitus. A total of 76 Covid-19 positive patients have died in Uttarakhand till now, with 11 patients dying due to coronavirus, according to the health officials. The rest of the positive patients died due to co-morbidities and other causes, added health officials. Of the 199 fresh cases reported on Thursday, 96 cases were contacts of earlier detected positive patients and travel history was not available in 93 cases at the time of the release of the health bulletin. A total of 185 Covid-19 patients were also discharged from different hospitals in the state on Thursday with a maximum of 142 from Haridwar district. The rate of doubling of cases based on the last seven days now stands at 27.64 days, while the infection rate is 4.60%. The state has so far tested over 1.63 lakh samples of which results of over 7,000 are awaited. Meanwhile, Congress MLA from Purola in Uttarkashi district tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. After he tested positive for coronavirus, he was admitted to Government Doon Medical College Hospital. The MLA is the second politician to test positive for Covid-19 in the state after tourism minister Satpal Maharaj who tested positive in June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/covid-19-positive-cases-cross-7-000-mark-in-uttarakhand/story-RJ9ZeOxiuyYbMYHDkUlEGL.html
30-07-2020||City||SI Simranjit Kaur is new SHO of Moti Nagar police station||With transfers of station house officers (SHOs) made by commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal, the city got another woman SHO on Thursday.Sub-inspector Simranjit Kaur has been given charge of SHO at Moti Nagar police station. She has replaced inspector Varunjit Singh. Simranjit Kaur was earlier posted as an additional SHO at Shimlapuri police station.Inspector Varunjit Singh has been transferred to the Shimlapuri police station. He has replaced Inspector Amandeep Singh Brar who has been transferred as SHO of Division Number 6 police station.Inspector Amarjit Singh, who was SHO at Police station Division number 6 has been transferred to police lines.Similarly, Inspector Baljit Singh, who was an additional SHO at Salem Tabri police station has been transferred as SHO of Ladhowal police station against a vacant post. Sub-Inspector Balwinder Singh, who was SHO at Ladhowal police station was suspended on Saturday.The city has three SHOs including SI Richa Rani, at Division Number 5 police station, SI Madhu Bala at Sarabha Nagar police station and SI Arshpreet Kaur, SHO at Basti Jodhewal police station.Four police stations out of 28 have women officers as SHOs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/si-simranjit-kaur-is-new-sho-of-moti-nagar-police-station/story-MYueLJvdNsDwMwxh1q4CgO.html
30-07-2020||City||New education policy: Ludhiana educationists demand govt to hire more teaching staff||The reforms and policies announced under the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 evoked mixed responses from the city’s teaching community and educationists. Welcoming the initiative such as teaching in mother tongue till Class 5, less academic pressure in their initial years in school, more focus on research, some educationists said that government needs to hire more teachers, boost infrastructure to implement this policy and allowing global institutes to set up campuses in India to increase competition.Appreciating the Centre for announcing the new education policy, Vandna Shahi, principal of BCM School, Dugri, said, “The new education policy has a futuristic approach, more emphasis on 21st-century skills, application of core concepts to be evaluated so rote learning discouraged, learning outcomes and competencies-based pedagogy and vocational subjects from Class 6 will help in skills development. It is a great step of bringing ECE level into the system and making it joyful till Class 2, this will reduce the burden on children.”A teacher at Malwa Senior Secondary School, Model Gram, Parambir Singh, said, “This policy will improve understanding of concepts. Allowing students to choose their own subjects based on their talent and interest in Class 8 to 11, is a welcome step as this way equal emphasis can be laid on all subjects. But to implement this policy there is a need to have more teachers and infrastructure at schools and colleges level.”Dharam Singh Sandhu, principal of Satish Chander Dhawan Government College said, “It is a great step by the ministry and the multiple exit/entry and the credit bank will give students a lot of flexibility in getting educated and earning degrees while they are working. In the policy, it is also stated that universities need to be research intensive, enterprising and multidisciplinary and colleges can focus on academic study. The step of allowing foreign universities to set up campuses in India will no doubt increase competition among the institutes but the government needs to keep a check that the institutions are focusing on providing education to students, instead of turning out into business institutions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/new-education-policy-ludhiana-educationists-demand-govt-to-hire-more-teaching-staff/story-8YK2Bj9wc2c9W29qpmNcdJ.html
30-07-2020||City||Passengers wait for hours to undergo thermal screening at Ludhiana railway station||Passengers were harried lot after they were forced to wait for hours at Ludhiana railway station to undergo thermal screening on Thursday. Teams deputed at the railway station are equipped with only two thermal screening guns.Passengers were made to stand in long queues to get through the thermal screening process. The procedure took more than one and a half hours.Passengers de-boarded from New Jalpaiguri (Kolkata)-Amritsar bound Karambhoomi Express train at the station. It is a weekly train that reaches Ludhiana every Thursday.Teams said that they were surprised to see passengers in huge numbers. They immediately swung into action and asked the passengers to stand in queues while maintaining social distancing. Ravi Yadav of Bihar, who is physically challenged said that he was made to wait for hours for the thermal screening process. He said that no arrangements were made for physically challenged persons and demanded that the administration should set up more counters for the thermal screening of passengers.Sanjivan Gupta, who is travelling to Moradabad in UP said that his wife and children were also made to wait without food and water.An official said that they get a list of passengers an hour before the arrival of the train. It was the highest number of passengers alighted from one train.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/passengers-wait-for-hours-to-undergo-thermal-screening-at-ludhiana-railway-station/story-sggvqXD6SBmskytHRJSMbO.html
30-07-2020||City||Make safety, affiliation certifications public, Punjab info panel directs schools||Chandigarh The state information commission, Punjab, on Thursday directed all government, government-aided and private schools in the state to make public their building and fire safety certifications and school’s affiliation by the education board. “In case a school doesn’t have a website, it will be mandatory to display this information prominently on the notice boards, and in case of schools with websites, this information will be displayed on both the forums,” said the order by information commissioner Khushwant Singh. District Education Officers (DEOs) will ensure compliance with immediate effect. “DEOs will also upload this information on their respective departmental websites, including the name of the schools that are not compliant and also a school compliant in one and non-compliant in the other two,” adds the order. “Schools will not evade sharing the complete status quo on all three points, fire and building safety certificates and board affiliation certificate. Each compliance or non-compliance must be clearly stated on the website,” said the order. The order was pronounced after a petition filed by Kamaldeep Kaur of Amritsar against respondents project director, Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan, and district education officer (elementary). The petitioner had asked for information about affiliation and safety certification of a privately-run school. However, the information received by the petitioner was incomplete, subsequent to which an appeal was filed. “There’s a humongous public interest in taking a broader view of the issue of safety of children and staff in schools than confining it to one school. It is evident from the ongoing hearings of this case that some schools – whether they are private, government-aided or government-operated may not be meeting and complying with the prescribed standards of building and fire safety norms set by the appropriate authority,” said the information commissioner.The commission has asked the government authority to issue guidelines to schools for implementation of the order. It asked a representative of the appropriate authority to be present at the next date of hearing on August 25 to show evidence that the order is being complied with.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/make-safety-affiliation-certifications-public-punjab-info-panel-directs-schools/story-arKH21PrDQpM1jlDv9n9UK.html
30-07-2020||Chandigarh||Man held for abetment of suicide, was in relationship with minor victim||A 22-year-old man was arrested on charges of abetment of suicide and wrongful confinement in Ambala’s Barara block on Thursday. Police have arrested Ankush of Dahiya Majra village of Barara . The 16-year-old victim had gone missing on March 19. Her father had lodged a missing complaint under Section 346 (wrongful confinement) of the Indian Penal Code at Barara police station. In his complaint the victim’s father had said, “My youngest daughter, who had just given her Class 11 exams, left home without informing anyone. We tried searching for her to no avail.”Barara station in-charge Virender Kumar on Thursday said the body of the girl was recovered on March 23 from a pond. “The forensic science laboratory (FSL) report revealed that the girl had died due to drowning. Ankush was presented before a court and sent to a one-day police remand,” he said. Barara deputy superintendent of police Rajnish Kumar said, “The accused and the victim were in a relationship. The girl may have taken the drastic step when the relationship went sour,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-held-for-abetment-of-suicide-was-in-relationship-with-minor-victim/story-sNvGI0Ms9qM9d7Iwv3EczN.html
30-07-2020||Mumbai||2 arrested with 120 stolen mobile phones||Aarey police arrested two persons and recovered 120 mobile phones and tablets worth ₹6.5 lakh from them on Thursday. The arrested accused Akshay Bhoy, 23, Aakash Salve alias Akku, 20 had broken into a shop owned by Brijbhan Sahani and had stolen over 100 mobile phones on July 25.An officer from Aarey police station said, “Following Sahani’s complaint we registered a FIR under sections 454 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking in order to commit offence punishable with imprisonment), 457 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night in order to commit offence punishable with imprisonment) and 380 (theft in dwelling house) of Indian Penal Code and started investigation.”Police collected the CCTV camera footage from nearby shops and while investigating they saw two people suspiciously moving in the area. The details of the accused were given to patrolling staffs, who nabbed the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-arrested-with-120-stolen-mobile-phones/story-EhrY3250r1aMViyGFqVHxN.html
30-07-2020||Chandigarh||Garment shop robbery: Women’s gang of seven, accomplice held in Ludhiana||Police have arrested seven members of a women’s gang that had targeted a garment shop in Salem Tabri area on Thursday. Police have also arrested their accomplice – an auto driver. They had robbed garments worth 2.5 lakh from the shop. Cash and garments were recovered from them. The accused, Pammi, Payal, Chhoti, Nikki, Babli, Kajal and Seema, are all residents of the Mullanpur Dakha slum area. Police said Paras Kumar of Mandiyani village was their accomplice.Salem Tabri station house officer Inspector Gopal Krishan said police had arrested the accused near a Verka Milk point on Ferozepur road. “The accused were in the area to commit another crime,” he said. The accused had targeted the garment showroom two days ago and decamped with cash and garments. They were captured on the CCTVs installed near the shop. The accused used to target shops between 2am to 4am.The police had circulated the video on social networking sites to identify the accused. The gang had committed a similar crime on November 2019 in Model Town. The accused have confessed to their involvement in four such robberies in Ludhiana and Khanna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/garment-shop-robbery-women-s-gang-of-seven-accomplice-held-in-ludhiana/story-MdjcsLFJdiLrCMV4X6hNQK.html
30-07-2020||Kolkata||1400 litres of spurious sanitizer seized in Kolkata||Kolkata Police seized around 1400 litres of purported spurious sanitizer from two shops in central Kolkata on Thursday. Two persons have been arrested. Sanitizers and disinfectants are presently in high demand in the market because of the spread of Covid-19. “Acting on information, officers of the Kolkata Police’s enforcement branch and anti-rowdy section raided two shops and seized around 1400 litres of purported spurious sanitizers,” said a senior police officer. The sanitizers were kept in bottles of various shapes and sizes without any labels or manufacturing certificates. The persons could not produce valid documents. “Two persons Rajib Punjabi and Jiauddin Basha were arrested. The chemicals that were being stored and mixed in tin-drums and other plastic containers appeared harmful,” the officer said. Police said that the duo was being interrogated and further investigation was on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/1400-litres-of-spurious-sanitizer-seized-in-kolkata/story-Bxx9Fwpror3UjoFMN844zH.html
30-07-2020||Gurugram||Matter of illegal registries to be probed by CID||The criminal investigation department (CID) will investigate into illegal registration of agricultural property in the district.According to Haryana laws, for registration of agricultural land less than two kanals, its owners had to take a no-objection certificate (NOC) from the authorities before a sale. HT had earlier reported over 120 property registrations were carried out in Gurugram without an NOC from the department of town and country planning (DTCP) during a part of the Covid-19 induced lockdown period between April 20 and May 4Officials privy to the CID investigation into the matter said that all registries carried out between April and July will be scrutinized by the department’s CM Flying Squad. Inderjeet Yadav, deputy SP (CID) CM Flying Squad, Gurugram, said that they have sought details from the revenue department.Yadav said that the registrations carried out without NOC from DTCP are in hundreds in various tehsils of the district and these were carried out in unauthorised colonies mostly. “These deeds allow the property dealers to sell plots in unauthorised areas and this also boosts illegal colonies,” said Yadav. Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, Gurugram, had also confirmed last Friday that instances of registries in violation of norms had come up and disciplinary action would be taken against officials under civil services rules. “Action will be taken against such officials,” he had said, adding that a systemic solution will also be brought about by the state government to curb these malpractices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/matter-of-illegal-registries-to-be-probed-by-cid/story-MTNByoP4elaP29ywRJJh2O.html
30-07-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram may receive more rainfall, some thunderstorms in coming days||After light to moderate showers earlier this week, Gurugram is likely to receive more rainfall for at least the next four days, along with the possibility of a thunderstorm around August 4, a forecast by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. Between Tuesday and Wednesday, Gurugram received close to 12mm of rainfall (as per IMD data). The daytime temperature also fell from, from 34.5 degrees Celsius on Wednesday to 31.3 degrees Celsius on Thursday.As per the IMD’s seven-day weather forecast for the city, Gurugram will experience “generally cloudy sky with one or two spells of rain or thundershowers” till at least August 3 — during which period the maximum temperature will slowly climb from about 32 degrees Celsius on Friday, to 36 degrees Celsius by Monday. However, the mercury is expected to plunge again around Tuesday, with a high chance of a thunderstorm.The onset of monsoon is also likely to have a favourable impact on air quality in the city. From largely ‘moderate’ levels of pollution observed early in the month, pollution levels have, over the past 10 days, dipped to settle in the ‘satisfactory’ category, as per the Central Pollution Control Board’s air quality index (AQI) bulletin. On Thursday, Gurugram’s AQI value was 59 (satisfactory), with an average PM2.5 concentration of 64ug/3 (only slightly above the safety threshold of 60ug/m3). As per projections by the CPCB, Gurugram will continue to experience favourable air quality over the next few days, with Friday’s AQI expected to settle at 52 (also satisfactory), before improving to 46 (good) on Saturday. Kuldeep Shrivastava, spokesperson, IMD, explained that the prevailing conditions are due to the passage of a monsoon trough over northern India, which has been shifting southwards from the Himalayan foothills, leading to a convergence of rain bearing southwesterly and easterly winds over the plains. “With cloud formation over Delhi-NCR underway, we will see patchy rains till Sunday and then possibly heavier showers after that, early next week,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-may-receive-more-rainfall-some-thunderstorms-in-coming-days/story-6Jfc13uzegxKHbOcbbJZbN.html
30-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi BJP to install big screens across city for live telecast of Ram temple Bhumi Pujan||The Delhi BJP will install giant LED screens across the city for people to watch groundbreaking ceremony for a grand Ram temple in Ayodhya on August 5, and will celebrate the occasion by lighting diyas, party leader Adesh Kumar Gupta said Thursday. The Delhi BJP president said Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be present during the ‘Bhumi Pujan’ ceremony in Ayodhya and it will be a “historic” occasion. “The occasion will be remembered by the generations to come and it’s our duty to make this historic moment a glorious one,” Gupta said in a statement.Delhi BJP leaders and workers will join people in each of the 70 Assembly constituencies to watch the live broadcast of the ‘Bhumi Pujan’ on giant LED screens, he said.In the evening, party leaders will light earthen ‘diyas’ at their houses and also encourage their neighbours to do so to celebrate the occasion, he said. The Delhi BJP will celebrate the day as a festival and ensure participation of a large number of people in it, the party’s general secretary Rajesh Bhatia said. “The dream of a grand Ram temple in Ayodhya is going to materialise after 500 years, on August 5. We are preparing to celebrate the day with the people of Delhi as Diwali,” he said. Prime Minister Modi had in February announced in Lok Sabha the formation of a trust to construct Ram temple in Ayodhya, following the Supreme Court verdict in the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid case in November last year. Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust has invited the prime minister to lay the foundation stone for a grand Ram temple in Ayodhya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-bjp-to-install-big-screens-across-city-for-live-telecast-of-ram-temple-bhumi-pujan/story-5TCsh0rQsF8NWysD7gQ3dN.html
30-07-2020||City||Five held in raid on gambling den in Pune||Pune: The Social Security Cell of Pune crime branch under Inspector Vaishali Chandgude raided a gambling den in Ramnagar slums, Wanowrie, and arrested five persons under the Public Gambling Act, 1867, on Wednesday. The action comes following Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham’s order regarding strict crackdown on gambling dens in the city. The action was taken by the SSC sleuths under the supervision of additional commissioner (crime) Ashok Morale and DCP (crime) Bachchan Singh. Inspector Chandgude said that acting on a tip-off, the officials raided the den and arrested the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-held-in-raid-on-gambling-den-in-pune/story-Di78MKoEiERL4qMvCQqLeN.html
30-07-2020||City||Farmers cry foul over ‘illegal’ collection of parking fee at Ludhiana vegetable market||Farmers visiting the vegetable market near Jalandhar bypass are raising a hue and cry over ‘illegal’ collection parking fee of ₹35 at the entry point.The farmers rued that they were exempted from paying the parking fee since 2017, but the market committee is still charging the fee illegally. Despite complaints given to the market committee officials, no relief has been provided to the farmers. Farmers said, “In 2017, the mandi board had issued clear orders that no entry or parking fee would be charged from the farmers who visit the market for selling their produce. But the market committee officials are only exempting the tractor-trolley and fee is being charged from farmers bringing their produce in jeeps and other vehicles.“Despite complaints submitted with the market committee officials, no action has been taken in this regard. Hundreds of farmers visit the market for selling their produce and ₹35 for each vehicle is being charged illegally. We have also shown the document to the market committee officials but to no avail. The farmers would be forced to raise an agitation if the market committee members did not stop this illegal practice,” said a farmer Swaran Singh.Meanwhile, the members of the Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) have also extended their support to the farmers and announced to raise an agitation in the coming days. Senior LIP leader, Randhir Singh Sibia said, “If needed we would also block the road outside the vegetable market. The administration and market committee officials would be responsible for the same.” Despite repeated attempts, the secretary of the market committee could not be reached.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-cry-foul-over-illegal-collection-of-parking-fee-at-ludhiana-vegetable-market/story-o6SNWkKoTBTiZ575KzrI6O.html
30-07-2020||City||J&K teachers’ body welcomes new education policy||Welcoming the New Education Policy 2020, the All Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh Teachers’ Federation, Poonch, affiliated to the Akhil Bharatiya Rashtriya Shaikshik Mahasangh, termed the move as a major initiative to deal with the new challenges of the 21st century.Addressing the media in Poonch, AJKLTF state vice-president Darshan Bharti said, “We welcome the new policy where appointment procedure of teachers is transparent, restoring the dignity of teachers. Participation in educational administration area is a commendable element in the new policy.”“The NEP-2020 aims at making India a global knowledge superpower with focus on basic literacy and basic numeracy. Establishment of the National Assessment Centre - PARAKH to assess students will strengthen the basic academic system in the country,” he added.Bharti said that the new policy also focuses on vocational studies at school level, where every child will have to learn at least one vocational course, which will prepare them to identify life skills and by 2025, at least 50% learners at schools and higher education institutions will have exposure to vocational education.The teachers’ federation also welcomed the common regulatory body for higher education in which a Higher Education Commission of India (HECI) will be set up as a single overarching umbrella body for higher education, excluding medical and legal education.HECI will have four independent verticals - National Higher Education Regulatory Council (NHERC) for regulation, General Education Council (GEC ) for standard setting, Higher Education Grants Council (HEGC) for funding, and National Accreditation Council( NAC) for accreditation.The AJKLTF said with implementation of new policy, Indian education system will be one of the best in the world and will connect students to their culture and heritage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-teachers-body-welcomes-new-education-policy/story-trfhgIjYgJB5tf1Wvc28hJ.html
30-07-2020||City||HP govt reduces sewerage charges from 50% to 30%||The Himachal Pradesh cabinet, that met under the chairmanship of CM Jai Ram Thakur, has decided to reduce sewerage charges from 50% to 30 % of water bills being charged by the Jal Shakti Vibhag, providing much needed relief to consumers. The cabinet also gave nod to enhance financial assistance for education up to two children of registered beneficiaries of Himachal Pradesh Buildings and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board. Now, female and male students will get annual financial assistance of Rs 8,000 and Rs 5,000, respectively, from Class 1 to 8. Similarly, from Class 9 to 12, female and male students will get Rs 11,000 and Rs 8,000, respectively. For graduation, females will get Rs 16,000 instead of Rs 15,000, while males will receive Rs 12,000 instead of Rs 10,000. For postgraduation and diploma courses of one to three years, females will get Rs 21,000 instead of Rs 20,000, and males will receive Rs 17,000 instead of Rs 15,000. For professional and degree courses, and PhD and research, females will get Rs 36,000 in place of Rs 35,000, and males will get financial assistance of Rs. 27,000 per annum in place of Rs 25,000. It was also decided that financial assistance for marriage of workers will be increased from Rs 35,000 to Rs 51,000, and up to Rs 51,000 each for marriage of two children. It also decided to disburse third installment of financial assistance of Rs 2,000 to registered beneficiaries of the Himachal Pradesh Buildings and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board. The HP cabinet gave its consent to implement Mahila Shakti Kendra Scheme in Kullu, Kinnaur and Lahaul-Spiti districts, and to create and fill one post each of women welfare officer and two posts each of district coordinator in each district, on outsource basis. The cabinet gave its approval for constitution of State Food Commission for effective monitoring and review of implementation of the National Food Security Act, 2013, in state. It decided to simplify policy for providing ‘compassionate employment’ and delegation of powers to departments for disposal of cases of ‘compassionate employment’. Now, instead of clerks, the cases will be considered for the post of junior office assistant (IT). The cabinet also gave its nod to fill 30 posts of junior engineer (civil), 20 posts of junior engineer (mechanical) and six posts of junior engineer (electrical) in the Jal Shakti Vibhag, on a contractual basis. The cabinet decided to fill two posts of steno typist on contract basis, one post of driver on daily wage basis in the office of deputy commissioner Kullu, and one post of driver on daily wage basis in the office of deputy commissioner Chamba.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-govt-reduces-sewerage-charges-from-50-to-30/story-tx4EStC68ZWeertCJPM8UJ.html
30-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Saupin’s School regrets e-mail to parents over payment of fee||In a flip flop over charging of school fee, Saupin’s School, Sector 32, on Thursday said it had inadvertently sent e-mails to parents to pay the fee.The matter was resolved after a meeting by the Chandigarh Commission for Protection of Child Rights (CCPRC), where principal Surita Sharma expressed regret over the e-mail “to pay all fees by July 31”.The CCPCR had issued a letter to the complainants, school and the UT education department regarding the issue, following which the parents, along with the principal, attended the meeting. As the parents were satisfied by the school’s response, CCPCR declared the matter resolved, while stating that no further action was required on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-saupin-s-school-regrets-e-mail-to-parents-over-payment-of-fee/story-9fZHKikToZUHOZ7tas6xyL.html
30-07-2020||City||Flesh trade racket busted in Ludhiana, three foreigners among six arrested||An undercover operation by the police led to the arrest of six persons for immoral trafficking from a house at New Sundar Nagar on Ferozepur Road on Wednesday night.Three of those arrested are foreign nationals, including Suvera Khan, 32, Shehnaz, 29, and Shusista, 27, all hailing from Uzbekistan. The three other accused are Nazampreet Kaur, 24, of Batala; Vikramjit Singh, 30, of Gagan Vihar, Haibowal Kalan; and Vikas Sharma, 31, of Mohalla Gobind Nagar, Shimlapuri. The gang’s kingpin, Reet, alias Meenu, of Lohara village, and her accomplice, Ramandeep Singh of Nanda Colony of Kailash Nagar, are at large.The police recovered eight mobile phones, Rs 15,000 in cash and two cars from the accused. Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said the gang, through a man named Guri, solicited men using foreigners.The racket was busted after Ramandeep brought Suvera near Gill Canal following a deal with a decoy customer sent by Shimlapuri police.“Following the information provided by Suvera, police conducted a raid at a house in New Sundar Nagar and arrested two more foreigners, another woman and two men from there,” said the ADCP.“The gang used to bring women from other cities and countries. They charged Rs 5,000 to Rs 10,000 from each customer and paid the women half the share,” he added.“All foreigners are in India on tourist Visa. Passport of one of the women has been recovered. Police have contacted the Uzbekistan Embassy to establish the women’s travel history,” the official said.A case under Sections 3, 4, 5 and 5-A of Immoral Trafficking Act; Sections 188 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code; Section 3 of the Epidemic Act; and Section 51 of Disaster Management Act has been registered at the Shimlapuri police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/flesh-trade-racket-busted-in-ludhiana-three-foreigners-among-six-arrested/story-7WP6vxIyHRhJrFNNXytzNL.html
30-07-2020||City||Domino’s employee, three others held for violating lockdown deadline in Ludhiana||An employee of Domino’s Pizza and the owners of three other eateries were arrested for not closing their businesses after 9pm on Thursday night. Karan Mayur, an employee at the Domino’s outlet near Bhai Bala Chowk, was arrested by the Division Number 6 police. He is a resident of Kartar Nagar.Similarly, Gurpreet Singh of Shakti Nagar was arrested for keeping his shop, Baba Chicken, in Kochar market, open after 9pm. Sarabha Nagar police arrested Ram Kumar of Barewal for a similar violation.Pawan Kumar, a juice shop owner, was arrested by the Division Number 8 police, while the owner of Shahi Dhaba at Kailash Chowk was booked for the same violation.Separate cases under the Indian Penal Code and the Disaster Management Act were registered at various police stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/domino-s-employee-three-others-held-for-violating-lockdown-deadline-in-ludhiana/story-DarOo8ZYn4tWw6S7BZ6XaP.html
30-07-2020||City||PMC’s outer ring road project will need clearance from environment ministry||PUNE: In an affidavit submitted to the National Green Tribunal (NGT) regarding the High Capacity Mass Transit Project (HCMTR) project, the ministry of environment and forests (MoEF) has asked the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to seek the ministry’s clearance before launching the plan. Activists have raised objections regarding the outer ring road project before the country’s environmental watchdog. NGT, while hearing the petition, asked the ministry of environment and forests to submit their say on the project. The ministry, in its reply, stated objections. The questions raised by the ministry include why a 40-year-old project is being forced upon residents despite public opposition? why politicians and administration are taking interest in the project when the government machinery is falling short of funds due to the Covid-19 pandemic? and why PMC is circumventing the procedure of environmental clearance for HCMTR? Sarang Yadwadkar, urban planner and one of the petitioners, said, “HCMTR was planned 40 years ago and was meant only for public transport, but now the plan is converted for private transport. The project would badly impact the environment causing massive air pollution and many buildings would need to be demolished.” Nagrik Chetna Manch’s activist Qaneez Sukhrani said, “On what grounds have an outdated plan of HCMTR been approved by PMC? How can it go ahead without having the environment clearance?” The activists said that the issues raised by the ministry in the affidavit are in line with their concerns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-s-outer-ring-road-project-will-need-clearance-from-environment-ministry/story-F9kMxqI6WBMKWO8l8dKfOK.html
30-07-2020||City||With cane seedlings in demand, UP govt imparts training in nurturing them||Lucknow With sugarcane being a round-the-year crop, as there are two planting seasons, and the sugar industry continuing to function even through Covid-19 lockdown, the demand for cane seedlings, unlike many other things, have only gone high, prompting the UP Cane Development Department to engage women for nurturing cane seedlings (graft). “We are running the training process in 26 sugarcane growing districts of the state and have trained 1,339 rural women entrepreneurs in 145 SHGs to prepare cane seed nurseries. Sugarcane is cultivated on large scale as a cash crop in the state and thus there is immense scope for SHGs to make earnings by selling seedlings,” said Sanjay R Bhoosreddy, commissioner, cane and sugar, department Uttar Pradesh. The women SHGs will prepare sugarcane nursery at their village level through ‘single bud’ and ‘bud chip’ methods to help them augment their income by selling the seedlings. The Cane Development Council and sugar mills have jointly selected villages for imparting training to women entrepreneurs. Bhoosreddy also said that necessary machinery, on subsidised rates with the cooperation of sugar mills, will be provided to the SHGs. The women are being given training regarding seed selection, cutting bud pieces from the hand-operated machine, germination in-tray, time of growing, and method of planting. The move would also help the state to increase the new sugarcane varieties from single bud and bud chip nursery. The seedlings prepared by the methods will solve the problem of late sowing due to excessive moisture in the fields for autumn cane sowing in lowland and flood-prone areas while autumn cane area will also increase. The method will also be useful in case, the cane is sown late after harvesting of wheat crop.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-cane-seedlings-in-demand-up-govt-imparts-training-in-nurturing-them/story-gAJmeYwpz5bOWLBrtA25yN.html
30-07-2020||City||No state-level function to mark Udham Singh’s death anniversary this year||Sangrur The district administration has cancelled the state-level function to be held to mark the 81th death anniversary of freedom fighter Shaheed Udham Singh in Sunam, his native town, on Friday (July 31), due to the covid-19 pandemic. “The state level-event has been cancelled amid the pandemic. Individuals, however, will be free to pay obeisance. I have announced July 31 as a holiday,” Sangrur deputy commissioner Ramvir told HT, adding that government establishments and banks will remain closed. Udham Singh killed General Michael O’ Dwyer, the former lieutenant governor of Punjab, who ordered the Jallianwala Bagh massacre of 1919, on March 13, 1940, in Caxton Hall London. The Ghadarite was hanged on July 31, 1940.Despite 80 years of Udham Singh’s hanging and four years of announcement, the construction of his memorial is still pending in Sunam. On the eve of his 118th birth anniversary in 2016, Union food processing and industries minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal had laid the foundation stone of the memorial, but nothing moved. Last year, during the state-level function, Punjab tourism and cultural affairs minister Charanjeet Singh Channi had claimed that the memorial will be built on four acre on Sunam-Bathinda highway at a cost of Rs 2.6 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-state-level-function-to-mark-udham-singh-s-death-anniversary-this-year/story-ifi3ujCoFfTx6QChI1SYuO.html
30-07-2020||Chandigarh||Scolded for playing PUBG, 20-year-old college student ends life in Jalandhar||Jalandhar: Scolded by his parents for spending hours on the mobile phone playing PUBG, an online battle game, a 20-year-old college student shot himself dead at his house in Jalandhar on Thursday morning. Police said the youngster opened fire with his father’s service revolver. Hearing the sound of the gunshot, his parents rushed to his room only to find him bleeding profusely. They took him to a nearby hospital where he was declared brought dead. His father said, “We didn’t scold him much but being parents we used to ask him to focus on studies and spend less time on the phone playing PUBG.” Division number-5 station house officer Ravinder Singh said the father told them that the boy had been playing the game for hours on Wednesday night. “Distressed by the scolding, he shot himself dead with father’s .32-bore revolver,” the officer said, adding that a case was registered under Section 174 of the IPC. PlayerUnknown’s Battlegrounds or PUBG is an online multiplayer battle game in which players have to survive till the clock runs out. The free-to-play game is criticised for promoting violence and being a distraction for youngsters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/scolded-for-playing-pubg-20-year-old-college-student-ends-life-in-jalandhar/story-0vITKDS6xdGsxKJkX5VDJM.html
30-07-2020||Chandigarh||Must educate people about anti-corruption steps of Khattar govt: Nadda to BJP cadre||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) national president, Jagat Prakash Nadda, on Wednesday called upon the foot soldiers of the party in Haryana to give top priority to spreading awareness about anti-corruption and pro-development steps taken by the Manohar Lal Khattar-led state government since 2014. Addressing the frontline state BJP leaders and party workers through a videoconference after inaugurating six digitally equipped party offices, Nadda said the hot topic of discussion across Haryana should be how the governance in the state has become corruption-free. “Manohar sarkar ne Haryana ki tavasir badal di...Haryana bhrashtachaar se mukt hua aur vikas yukt hua...(Manohar-led government changed the face of Haryana...Haryana became free of corruption and incorporated development...) We must understand this and take note of it,” Nadda said as he recalled how the state was once notorious for corruption, especially in government recruitments and transfers of employees. He said the corruption in government recruitments before the first-ever BJP government was formed in Haryana in October 2014 was so much so that certain politically powerful people were undergoing imprisonment for their involvement in recruitment scam. Haryana has always been, Nadda said, very auspicious land for the BJP. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had started his election campaign from Rewari ahead of 2014 Lok Sabha polls and after the BJP came to power at the Centre, the party formed its first regional government with full majority in Haryana. During Wednesday’s virtual meet, Nadda set the agenda for the newly appointed state party chief Om Prakash Dhankar when he said “we should work on our political content in Haryana” and underlined the need of educating people about the steps the state government has been taking to eradicate corruption and usher in the state on the path of development. The national BJP chief said the resolve of each party worker should be to make Haryana a number one state of the country. Nadda, who is a former Union health minister, advised the party cadre to make best use of the offices equipped with the latest digital tools, including videoconference facilities. He asked the cadre to form groups of party workers up to the booth-level, make committees and inject political content via WhatsApp groups. “We don’t discuss weather in our party offices. We are pure political workers...Hamara rajnitik content hona chahiye (Our content should be political),” he said, asking senior leaders to teach workers the culture of the party. ‘Some parties are still in lockdown mode’In an indirect hit at the opposition parties, BJP’s national president JP Nadda said all political parties had locked themselves down during the lockdown, except the BJP. He said only the BJP ensured to remain fully plugged with the people during the lockdown with the help of digital tools. He quipped that some parties were still in the lockdown mode.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/must-educate-people-about-anti-corruption-steps-of-khattar-govt-nadda-to-bjp-cadre/story-7yr6RyWk2WOGxJmuVrVnTN.html
30-07-2020||Chandigarh||103 new Covid-19 cases in Himachal, tally crosses 2,500 mark||Himachal Pradesh on Thursday recorded 103 fresh Covid-19 infection, taking the state’s tally to 2,506, officials said. Active cases in the state are now 1,090. Of the new cases, 35 were reported in Solan, 24 in Mandi district, 22 in Sirmaur, nine in Kangra, six in Shimla, three in Una, two in Kullu and one each in Bilaspur and Kinnaur districts.Shimla chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Surekha Chopda said a resident of Jakhu locality, his wife and daughter have tested positive. They had come in contact with a woman relative who was got infected recently. The contact tracing has been initiated and their house help has been quarantined at home. In Kangra district, a 40-year-old army jawan tested positive. He is a resident of Bara village in Dehra and had travel history to Leh. A 20-year-old army soldier from Nagrota tehsil is also among the new cases. He had a travel history to Leh. A 25-year-old Navy officer from Massal village in Nagrota with travel history to Kerela has also tested positive. All of them has been shifted to Military Hospital, Yol.In Kullu district, a 43-year-old SSB jawan from Nirmand has tested positive. He had returned from Guwahati in Assam on July 22 and was under home quarantine.In Bilaspur district, a 56-year-old man from Jhandutta with travel history to Jammu and Kashmir is among the new cases.Special secretary, health, Nipun Jindal said so far, 12 deaths have been reported in the state and 1,387 patients have recovered. Solan remains the worst hit district with 628 cases, followed by Kangra with 452 cases. Sirmaur has 327 cases, Hamirpur 304, Una 198, Shimla 165, Mandi 157, Chamba 103, Bilaspur 88, Kinnaur 45, and Kullu has 35 cases. With four Covid-19 cases till date, Lahaul and Spiti is the least affected district. HP secretariat employees accuse admn of not taking precautions Accusing Himachal Pradesh secretariat administration for not taking precautions after several employees tested positive, the staff has refused to continue their work and demanded that the building should be sealed. The employees staged a protest in Chotta Shimla outside the secretariat building on Thursday. HP Secretariat Services Employee Association said they had urged the administration to seal the building since the first case was reported in the office. They said they were assured of it but the administration did not do anything. They said the Himachal Pradesh University, high court and income tax department in Railway Board Building were also sealed when cases were reported but no such action was taken in the secretariat. Meanwhile, the CM branch from room number 10 to 110 and room number 119, 128 and 129 in the secretariat has been sealed after an employee tested positive on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/11-new-covid-19-cases-in-himachal-as-state-s-total-tally-climbs-to-2-414/story-2ufpZohvHYhho4CURcgoXP.html
30-07-2020||Pune||DIAT develops bed isolation system for Covid +ve patients||In the current pandemic, due to the continuous increase of Covid-19 positive patients, the bed requirement is increasing day by day. The Defence Institute of Advanced Technology, (DIAT) Pune has developed Aashray, the medical bed isolation system to combat Covid-19 by minimizing the spread of the infection released by the patient. This is a low cost, reusable solution to maintain proper isolation of Covid-19 patients by creating suction, negative pressure near exhale, and further filtering and disinfecting the aerosol. The bed isolation system envelopes are made up of specialized material and manufacturing process with transparent and translucent 7.5(l) ×7(w) ×6.5(h) ft3 size supported on medical grade materials structure. The product is modular and portable in design and can be suitable for different requirements such as institutional, hospitals and home individual quarantine. The envelope is reusable as it is antibacterial-antifungal and can be sanitized. Each envelope is capable of housing one set of bed, table and chair along with some walking space. The width of the envelope can be adjusted as per the availability of space. The envelope is opaque up to 3 feet from bottom to maintain the privacy of the patient. The entire envelope is maintained at a low pressure (suction) with adjustable flow rate to restrain the spread of infection inside the hall or the intensive care unit (ICU). Each envelope is connected to the main duct equipped with UV light and filter circuit of pre, fine and HEPA filter (recommended for medical application) and suction blower. The cross-flow of air from the top of the envelope towards the main duct is regulated (with a flap valve) as per the comfort conditions of the patient. The contaminants are continuously sucked through the duct and accumulated at the filters which are projected with UV light. The suction blower throws the filtered and contamination-free air to the outside environment. As per prototype manufacturer (M/s Cleancore Solutions Pvt Ltd. Bhosari, Pune) the cost of the setup for a unit of 10 beds are Rs 1 lakh approximately and for home quarantine, it is Rs 15,000 for a single bed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/diat-develops-bed-isolation-system-for-covid-ve-patients/story-rwo5OMQjv4qNCVEQlkpH4M.html
30-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ferozepur records steepest single-day spike with 77 new Covid-19 cases||Bathinda: Seventy-seven people tested positive for Covid-19 in Ferozepur on Thursday, making it the district’s highest single-day spike. Sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Amit Gupta said the number may go up further as laboratory reports for the day are still being received. He said most of the patients are asymptomatic. With this, the total number of coronavirus cases in the district so far has reached 410. Till Wednesday, the number of active Covid cases in Ferozepur was 116. Six people have died due to the infection in the district since the outbreak began. On Tuesday, Ferozepur reported 39 patients, including three health workers, police personnel and bank staffers. NO PUBLIC DEALING AT DC OFFICE Owing to the rising Covid cases, the Ferozepur district administration on Thursday suspended public dealings at the deputy commissioner (DC) office indefinitely. In a release, additional DC Rajdeep Kaur said two helpline numbers, 01632-244024 and 244039, have been started to redress public grievances. She said drop boxes have also been put up at the district administrative complex to accept complaints of residents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ferozepur-records-steepest-single-day-spike-with-77-new-covid-19-cases/story-mu7H6AbLsEMeKyVDGZWn2L.html
30-07-2020||City||Pvt ambulances fleecing covid-19 patients, Jalandhar admn fixes rates||Jalandhar With reports of private ambulances fleecing covid-19 patients, or those suspected to be infected with the disease, for shifting them to hospitals or quarantine centres, deputy commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Thursday constituted a five-member committee to stop the unethical practice. He has also fixed charges for private ambulances. The move assumes significance as many private hospitals are to begin treating patients from August 1. The district has only 23 ambulances with an average of 50 persons testing positive a day for the past month. The number of cases has also trebled from 733 on July 1 to 2,165 cases on July 29. There have been 47 deaths due to covid-19 till July 29 with three deaths on Wednesday.“Private ambulances have been charging Rs 3,000 and Rs 4,000 for shifting passengers from rural areas to Jalandhar city, a distance of between 10 and 30km only,” a doctor said on the request of anonymity. The new charges for private ambulances applicable in the district are a minimum of Rs 1,000 for the first 15km. After that, for a Basic Life Support (BLS) ambulance of up to 2,000cc, an additional Rs 10 per km will be applicable. For a BLS ambulance above 2000cc, the additional charges will be Rs 12 per km. Finally, again for an Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS), it will be Rs 1,000 for the first 15km, and an additional Rs 15 per km for additional travel. The DC added, “The ambulance service providers or drivers will also be responsible for providing PPE kits to covid patients from the points of pick and drop. The rates will be applicable between these points. It is also mandatory for ambulance driver to maintain the complete logbook.” The panel that has been formed to tighten the noose on private ambulances, which are making windfall gains by charging ‘exorbitantly’ for ferrying patients infected with covid-19 include Regional Transport Authority (RTA) secretary Barjinder Singh; assistant civil surgeon Dr Gurmeet Kaur Duggal and three others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pvt-ambulances-fleecing-covid-19-patients-jalandhar-admn-fixes-rates/story-2tYXDIWg1LIluLI8Yp9wGK.html
30-07-2020||Chandigarh||3 new ministers join Jai Ram Thakur cabinet in Himachal||Shimla: BJP president JP Nadda helped Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur consolidate his position in the state unit as three new ministers, including two of his loyalists, were inducted into the cabinet at a low-key ceremony at Raj Bhawan here on Thursday. In view of the Covid-19 guidelines, governor Bandaru Dattatreya administered the oath of office to Rakesh Pathania, Rajinder Garg and Sukhram Chaudhary at the function attended by 50 people, including Thakur and his cabinet colleagues. Pathania and Garg are Nadda’s confidants and political observers see their induction into the 31-month-old ministry as a move by the BJP chief to gain hold in the state’s politics. CASTE AND REGIONAL EQUATIONS Jai Ram Thakur struck a regional balance with his ministry’s expansion. Rajput leader Pathania was given preference to appease the electorate in the politically sensitive Kangra district. Kangra has always had a lion’s share in the ministry. Two cabinet berths had fallen vacant after Bipin Singh Parmar was appointed speaker and Kishan Kapoor was elected to the Lok Sabha. Chaudhary was accommodated to give ensure representation to other backward classes. Garg belongs to Hamirpur, a stronghold of former chief minister Prem Kumar Dhumal. Dhumal’s son and Union minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur is a four-time Lok Sabha member from Bilaspur. Garg’s elevation as minister will help both Nadda and Jai Ram Thakur check Dhumal’s clout in Hamirpur parliamentary constituency. Of the 68 assembly segments in Himachal Pradesh, 17 are reserved. Scheduled castes comprise 26.5% of the population, the second most dominant community after the Rajputs at 37.5%. KNOW THE NEW MINISTERS Nurpur MLA Rakesh Pathania, 55, Close to JP Nadda, he was elected as a BJP nominee in 1998 and re-elected as an independent in 2007 before becoming MLA for the third time in 2017. A Rajput, he was vying for a cabinet berth since 2017. Rajputs are a dominant caste in Kangra, which comprises 15 assembly segments. Paonta Sahib MLA Sukhram Chaudhary, 58, is an OBC leader from Sirmaur. He was elected to the Vidhan Sabha in 2003, 2007 and 2017 and parliamentary secretary from 2009-12. Jai Ram Thakur’s backing to him to sideline former party chief Rajeev Bindal helped him get a berth. Ghumarwin MLA Rajinder Garg, 54, is an old RSS worker and ABVP leader but first-time legislator. His loyalty to party chief JP Nadda found him a place in the cabinet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-new-ministers-join-jai-ram-thakur-cabinet-in-himachal/story-QjjjmcCRQpnABzNVVfl1BM.html
30-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi airport to relocate UV sanitization tunnels to inline baggage handling system||Delhi airport will relocate ultraviolet tunnels installed outside the departure terminal to sanitize passengers’ luggage amid the Covid-19 pandemic to the inline baggage handling system, its operator DIAL said on Thursday.Once the new system is put in place, passengers will not have to queue up at the departure forecourt area and go through manual loading and unloading of baggage.Before resumption of domestic passenger flights in May, the Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) had installed eight UV tunnels outside the entry gates in the departure forecourt area of Terminal 3. “Flyers used to sanitize their baggage before entering the terminal to board their flight. The decision to shift these UV tunnels was taken after passenger queues were observed during peak hours,” the GMR group-led DIAL said in a press statement.“The DIAL has planned to relocate UV tunnels at the inline baggage handling system by the end of this month. As all departure luggage are routed through it, hence it will ensure sanitisation of all check-in baggage,” it said. The flyers can directly go to the check-in counter, drop their baggage and the inline system will ensure their sanitisation automatically, the release said.All passenger flights are currently being operated from Delhi airport’s Terminal 3 due to less air traffic amid the pandemic.India resumed domestic passenger flights from May 25 after a gap of two months due to the pandemic. Airlines have been allowed to operate only a maximum of 45 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic flights.However, occupancy rate in Indian domestic flights has been around 50-60 per cent since May 25. Earlier this month, India had formed bilateral air bubbles with countries like the UAE, the US, Germany and France that allows airlines of both the countries in the pact to operate special international charter flights under certain restrictions.Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in India since March 23.The aviation sector has been significantly impacted due to travel restrictions imposed in India and other countries in view of the pandemic. All airlines in India have taken cost-cutting measures such as pay cuts, leave without pay and firings of employees in order to conserve cash.Since May 6, international charter flights have been operated by Air India under the Vande Bharat Mission to help stranded people reach their destinations. Private carriers have also operated a certain number of flights under this mission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-airport-to-relocate-uv-sanitization-tunnels-to-inline-baggage-handling-system/story-JZ7NRxLDjqfwrXDlzJFYqK.html
30-07-2020||Lucknow||Kinnars at loggerheads: Two rival groups clash, lodge FIRs||Two groups of kinnars in Prayagraj, one of which is affiliated to the Kinnar Akhada, are at loggerheads over the collection of ‘neg’ (money given to kinnars on auspicious occasions). During the last few days, a series of FIRs have been lodged against each other at different police stations and even clashes have erupted between them in some areas.On Tuesday, the two groups of kinnars clashed in Muthiganj area resulting in injuries to some of them. A large number of kinnars from both groups created a ruckus at Muthigaj police station demanding to lodge FIRs against each other. The police booked 13 kinnars of both groups under section 151 for disturbing peace.The two groups of kinnars have been accusing each other of intruding in their respective areas for ‘neg’ for more than a year now. The group of kinnars affiliated to the Kinnar Akhada claim that a new group of kinnars is illegally operating in their areas and collecting ‘neg’ on auspicious occasions.Meanwhile, the other group of kinnars, which has few members, alleges that owing to their large numbers, the other group is bullying them and implicating them in false cases at different police stations of the city. “We were also born in Prayagraj and are living and earning our living here for many years. We are a group of over a dozen kinnars from different parts of Prayagraj who wish to live and earn peacefully but since a year some kinnars affiliated to the Kinnar Akhada have been harassing us.“Although the main reason for the situation is interference in our area, another big reason is that we do not want to affiliate ourselves with the Akhada, or acknowledge its supremacy. They are not only attacking and injuring us but even implicating our group members in false cases using their influence,” complained Chhoti Kinnar who heads a small group of kinnars in Prayagraj. Meanwhile, SP (city) Dinesh Singh said some FIRs have been lodged against a group of kinnars. Investigations were underway in this connection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/kinnars-at-loggerheads-two-rival-groups-clash-lodge-firs/story-AcnmOPVqVFPD8supV4UIWN.html
30-07-2020||Ranchi||Putting me in home quarantine illegal: Jharkhand BJP chief||Jharkhand BJP president and Rajya Sabha MP Deepak Prakash on Wednesday said the state government was acting on political vendetta after he was put in home quarantine following his return from New Delhi, further declaring it as illegal.Prakash had gone to New Delhi for his oath ceremony in RS and returned to Ranchi on July 23 and has been since been in 14-day home quarantine.The MP on Wednesday wrote to Ranchi DC and registered his protest against the decision and demanded revoking the order. “The visit to Delhi was to discharge my official and parliamentary duty. Even the circular issued by the chief secretary regarding home quarantine for those coming from outside the state exempts people discharging official duty. I have been put in home quarantine despite it, which reflects the mindset of the state government,” he said.Prakash is the second leader to have been put in home quarantine after returning from outside the state. Earlier, BJP legislature party leader and former chief minster of Jharkhand Babulal Marandi had been put in home quarantine after his arrival from New Delhi last week..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/putting-me-in-home-quarantine-illegal-jharkhand-bjp-chief/story-TuoatZ0lzXI8Y1TKUq4IUL.html
30-07-2020||Chandigarh||UK PM Boris Johnson rides made-in-India bike at launch of cycling drive||London/Ludhiana: Cycling has come full circle or so it seems as British Prime Minister Boris Johnson was spotted riding a made-in-India bike designed in the United Kingdom by Ludhiana-based Hero Cycles. Johnson, 56, a cycling enthusiast, was seen riding a Hero Viking Pro bike to Canalside Heritage Centre at Beeston in Nottingham, central England, on Tuesday as he launched a £2 billion (Rs 19,392 crore) cycling and walking drive, which is part of the UK government’s anti-obesity strategy to combat Covid-19. TIME TO SHIFT GEARS A Covid-19 survivor, Johnson unveiled plans for thousands of miles of new protected bike lanes, cycle training for everyone and bikes available on prescription as part of a new fitness strategy. “From helping people get fit and lowering their risk of illness, to improving air quality and cutting congestion, cycling and walking have a huge role to play. Now is the time to shift gears and press ahead with our biggest and boldest plans to boost active travel -- so that everyone can feel the transformative benefits of cycling,” he said. The Viking Pro bike used by the UK prime minister is a part of India’s Hero Motors Company owned Insync brand, designed in Manchester and made in India by parent company Hero Cycles. Hero Cycles took over the brands Viking, Riddick and Ryedale and redesigned the range under the brand name Insync. The company said its Insync range consists of 75 bikes and is the first to be designed at Hero Cycles Global Design Centre (HGD) in Manchester. DELIGHT IN LUDHIANA “Insync is delighted that the Prime Minister rode one of our Viking bikes after announcing what will be a landmark moment for cycling in the UK,” said Pankaj M Munjal, chairman and managing director of Hero Motors Company, which includes Hero Cycles, Insync, the Viking and Lectro brands. “We strongly back all measures announced in the strategy, a move we hope will see many more thousands of people taking to the roads on two wheels. Providing safer cycle routes, funding towards e-bikes and a bike repairs scheme will encourage even more riders to return to cycling or take it up for the first time, building on the stand-out success the industry has seen during the pandemic,” he said. Last month, Hero Cycles had snapped up a Rs 900-crore deal with China in a major step towards indigenous production. Cycling sure has a long way to go.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/uk-pm-boris-johnson-rides-made-in-india-bike-at-launch-of-cycling-drive/story-gBKjtLQYryDcPykgJeiZzM.html
30-07-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana’s ML Khattar govt to undo 2017 amendment in urban areas law||Course Correction: Move come following reports of circumvention of law by real estate developers The BJP-led government in Haryana is contemplating to undo a 2017 amendment in Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act it had steered in the state assembly to water down section 7-A of the Act. The stipulations in section 7-A pertained to the grant of a no-objection certificate (NoC) by the town and country planning department (TCPD) before registration of land in notified urban areas.The requirement of NoC stating that land transfer does not contravene any provisions of the Act was to prevent ill-planned and haphazard construction in urban areas. An ordinance to amend the law again is likely to be promulgated soon, officials said.The move to undo the amendment comes in the wake of reports of large-scale violations in registration of sale deeds of properties without obtaining the NoCs in notified urban areas in Gurugram district. Subsequently, the government had last week halted the registration of transfer deeds across the state for a limited period citing alleged corrupt practices. The revenue department, which flagged the section 7-A violations, has written to the TCPD to make appropriate changes in the law.THE 2017 AMENDMENTThe 2017 amendment in section 7-A of the Act led to two modifications in the provision. First, it decreased the size of notified urban area land holding, for which NoC is required, from less than one hectare (2.5 acres) to less than two kanals. Secondly, the definition of land for which the NoC was required was changed from vacant land to agricultural land. The agricultural land was defined as Nehri (canal irrigated), Chahi (irrigated from well), Barani (dependent on rainfall) or any other term in revenue records.“The 2017 amendment passed by the assembly ensured that the real estate developers were able to circumvent the requirement of NoC by converting agricultural land into uncultivable (gair mumkin) in revenue records. Also, the reduction of size of land from less than a hectare to two kanals worked to the advantage of realtors,” said a revenue official. PROPOSED CHANGESOfficials said that as per the proposed amendment in section 7-A of the Act, the definition of notified urban area land and size of the holding for which the NoC was required is being modified. The land holding for which NoC is required is proposed to be less than one acre instead of less than two kanals and the notified urban area land definition will be changed from agricultural to vacant again.MOST VIOLATIONS PERTAINED TO SECTION 7-AOfficials said the registration of properties without NoCs in notified urban area land under section 7-A of the Act has led to mushrooming of unauthorised settlements.“It came to the notice of the Gurugram divisional commissioner that a number of naib tehsildars were executing sale deeds indiscriminately without the NoC,” said an official. The allegations though have been denied by the revenue officials saying that if the structures were built on urban area land notified under section 7-A, the TCPD does not issue NoCs and they have no option but to execute the sale deeds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-s-ml-khattar-govt-to-undo-2017-amendment-in-urban-areas-law/story-1peb8McvksRSy61ORcaohI.html
30-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt cuts taxes, diesel price slashed by over Rs 8||The Delhi government has decided to reduce the Value Added Tax (VAT) on diesel which will substantially cut the prices of diesel in the national capital.“Delhi Cabinet has decided to reduce VAT on diesel from 30% to 16.75%. This will reduce price of diesel in Delhi from Rs 82 to Rs 73.64 i.e. by Rs 8.36 per litre,” chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Thursday.“This is one of the several measures taken by our government to revive Delhi’s economy. Earlier this week, we had launched a portal to connect job seekers with potential employers,” Kejriwal added.The chief minister further said that he will connect with several industry groups and experts over video conferencing “to discuss more ways to revive Delhi’s economy”.After a series of hike in prices, diesel was retailing at its the highest ever rate in the national capital. In fact, diesel has been selling at a higher price that petrol. This happened because the Delhi government raised VAT on diesel sharply.Rates vary from state to state depending on the incidence of local sales tax or VAT.Diesel rates have continued to be revised sporadically in July. The cumulative increase in diesel price since June 7 now totals Rs 12.55 per litre.Prior to June 7, oil companies had for 82 days not revised petrol and diesel prices as they adjusted a record increase in excise duty by the government against the fall in rates warranted due to international oil prices slumping to a two-year low.Before the start of a daily price surge, petrol was being sold at Rs 71.26 per litre in Delhi and diesel at Rs 69.39 a litre on June 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-reduce-diesel-rate-by-rs-8-36-per-litre-will-cost-rs-73-64-says-cm-arvind-kejriwal/story-2ShFv2XKxle82LnX6kraMI.html
30-07-2020||Chandigarh||Machinery damaged in fire at NHPC Parbati stage-2 project in Himachal’s Kullu district||Shimla: A fire damaged machinery at the Parbati Hydroelectric Project, Stage-2, of the National Hydroelectric Power Corporation (NHPC) in the Sainj Valley of Kullu district early on Thursday. No loss of life was reported. Kullu superintendent of police Gaurav Singh said the incident occurred around 5am on Thursday after a blast in a machine due to short circuit. The area was engulfed in smoke. Two engineers working in the vicinity of the machine were provided first aid after they complained of suffocation. They are now fine. Six workers with them escaped the unit in time. The SP said that the situation was brought under control within half an hour. Though some machines were damaged, the amount of loss suffered is being ascertained. The power house has been sealed by the project administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/machinery-damaged-in-fire-at-nhpc-parbati-stage-2-project-in-himachal-s-kullu-district/story-AAX9AkoTNiOgEeeiJpatAL.html
30-07-2020||Jaipur||Plasma donation has given life to people: Rajasthan health minister||Health minister Raghu Sharma said on Wednesday that plasma therapy has proved effective in defeating coronavirus (Covid-19) in the state. “There is a need for plasma to treat serious patients of coronavirus disease,” said the minister, appealing corona survivors to donate plasma. He said plasma donation is the great act of kindness during the Covid-19 pandemic. Sharma said that treating serious corona patients with plasma therapy was started at Sawai Man Singh Hospital in Jaipur and it has been 100% successful. “Permission has been sought from ICMR (Indian Council for Medical Research) to start treatment with plasma therapy at other medical colleges,” he said. “At present, patients are being treated with plasma therapy and given new life at Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota and Udaipur,” the minister said. Sharma said that soon Bikaner and Ajmer will get permission to start treatment with plasma therapy. He said micro-level planning is being done by the government to start plasma therapy at hospitals in each district headquarters. He said all this would become effective when more and more survivors donate plasma. He said that the government, understanding the importance of plasma therapy, has set up Plasma Bank at SMS Hospital. He said that there will be no weakness or any problem after donating plasma and with this, lives of many people could be saved. According to the medical experts, any person aged between 18 and 60, who was tested corona positive through RT-PCR test having symptoms of fever and cough and has turned negative after treatment of 14 days, can donate plasma. The health minister said that at present the biggest problem is corona infected people not having any symptoms. The top priority is to identify asymptomatic people and treat them. He said that the government would buy 12,000 pulse oximeters to identify such people. He said that if asymptomatic people are identified on time, spread of corona infection could be controlled to a great extent. Sharma said that although compared to the country, the spread of coronavirus infection in Rajasthan is less, but it could be stopped by remaining alert and cautious. He said that all the district collectors have been directed to impose local lockdown as per the requirement, but it is not the complete solution. He said that the increasingly vicious circle of the virus could be broken if the general public follow the protocol that is not to go out without any important work; wear a mask while going out; avoid going to crowded places and frequently wash hands with soap.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/plasma-donation-has-given-life-to-people-rajasthan-health-minister/story-I9ZA6nhHd9ni4GOHFqmJeL.html
30-07-2020||Delhi||Cinema halls aim to reopen with a shot of immunity||Excited to sip some fizzy beverage and chomp fast food as soon as cinema halls reopen? Hold on to your excitement for the menus at cinema halls won’t be the same as before. You’ll have to ditch the soft drink and popcorn and instead opt for healthy foods when you get back to the theatres now! Thanks to the Covid-19 pandemic, managements of cinemas, across the country, reveal that there will be an inclusion of immunity boosting foods at most theatres, ranging from the fancy Turmeric Latte to the traditional kada and rasam. “Much like ticket booking and check-ins, our guests are also going to have a contactless experience for food ordering and payments. As far as the menu is concerned, we have taken a deliberate decision of operating with a shortened menu, and across the country we have also introduced a handpicked array of immunity boosters including healthy green teas such as Tulsi and Ginger Lemon Tea, Hot Turmeric Pepper Latte, and lots of soups and juices. We will also serve Pepper Rasam and nutritious energy bars, and aim to make our menu tastier yet healthier,” says Dinesh Hariharan from INOX Leisure Ltd, adding, “Even at the live kitchens of our premium properties, the menu has been re-engineered with an introduction of exotic options such as fresh fruit juices, specially-curated beverages, soups and sandwiches, which would have the added ingredients to build immunity.” Some have gone a step ahead, the natural way. “We understand that patrons will be looking at health-conscious options when they visit the cinemas, especially during this period. So we have introduced immunity boosting products such as cold pressed juices as well as coconut water on our menu,” says Devang Sampat, from Cinepolis India. But healthy doesn’t mean you won’t be spoilt for choice. Some multiplexes have decided to roll an extensive menu, and Kunal Sawhney, from Carnival Cinemas, says, “We have included kada, Turmeric Latte, Tulsi Tea, and many other varieties of immunity-boosting teas in the drinks menu. Spinach, broccoli, fresh citrus fruit platter, yogurt, and nuts are also being included in the food menu. In the combos that will be on offer, we will add at least one healthy food item from these dishes.” Interestingly, film buffs, who are looking forward to finally return to cinema halls for the big-screen experience, say that this is the need of the hour. “It would be a very different feeling, for sure, to get back to the theatres after more than four months, and the scare of the virus surely demands cinema hall menus include such healthy options than just serving junk food that plays havoc with our system,” says Mohit Saraf from Faridabad. And while the movie he’ll watch is yet to be decided, Saraf has his beverage choices lined up. “From the immunity boosting menu, I would love to taste the Turmeric Latte,” he says. For more stories follow Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/cinema-halls-aim-to-reopen-with-a-shot-of-immunity/story-ymQQqshehLAh7huxMGjcxH.html
30-07-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Death of a landmark nihari||Bloggers have blogged about it. Instagrammers have instagrammed about it. Heritage-minded walking tours too would stop by for quick feasts and photo opportunities. And now it is gone.Hazi Shabrati Nihari Shop is history. The iconic eatery near Old Delhi’s Haveli Azam Khan was famous for its signature meat stew — it would be cooked overnight and served fresh in the early morning. It has been replaced by a grocery that opened last Friday. The shop stays within the family, but the business has changed. It all happened because of.... you guess it—coronavirus pandemic!“We remained shut during the long lockdown,” says Mohammad Shuaib Ilyas, the grandson of Hazi Shabrati, the late founder who set up the eatery in 1957. In his late 30s, the gentleman says that he realized the following truth during the traumatic lockdown: “The only shops that thrive in situations of emergency are the ones dealing with any of these four things: medicines, vegetables, dairy products and grocery.”The eatery couldn’t survive the new conditions, Mr Ilyas says. “All our cooks left for their villages in UP and Bihar as soon as the roads reopened. There was no way we could have restarted the nihari cooking.”Replace the eatery by a grocery was the wisest thing to do, he feels, while handing over a cake of Lifebuy soap to a masked customer.This afternoon, the grocery is still looking new, as crisp as newly starched clothes that will take some time to adapt to the wearer’s figure. The floor is neatly arranged with rows of sacks containing different varieties of rice. The walls are lined with metal racks, the kind public libraries use for stacking books. The shelves are packed with jams and ketchups, soaps and detergents, lentils and spice boxes.Truly, the world here has changed so swiftly. Just a few months back this was a busy kitchen with a huge brass cauldron, or degh, filled with piping hot nihari. The degh would be half-buried into an earthen stove that was as old as the shop. A lungi-wearing cook perched on the counter would patiently ladle the nihari out of the cauldron to pour it into takeaway plastic packets for customers. It is said that in the old days, a nihari degh would never be made to leave the fire, and that the stew would be cooked slowly, continuously, with fresh stock being added daily. No such romance existed in Hazi Shabrati Nihari shop, at least during its final years. The degh would be washed twice daily, just before cooking nihari afresh, and a typical degh would be replaced by a new one in a month. But until the pandemic hit our city, while the shop would routinely roll down its shutters every evening and the cooks would duly go to bed, the nihari would keep simmering in the degh, on a low fire. That all-night slow-cook tradition was rigorously followed. And, every morning by 8, the locals would gather around to make their claim upon the dish. They still come, but now they ask for Amul buttter and Kissan jam — factory-made items available in all the ordinary places.Founder Hazi Shabrati died 23 years before his shop underwent such a drastic change. His wife, Sakina Begum, died late last year. Both lie buried in Dilli Gate graveyard. Grandson Mr Ilyas now poses with folded arms against the shop’s backdoor painted in Urdu saying Hazi Shabrati Nihari Shop.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/death-of-a-landmark-nihari/story-PInhdPCNbQe4A1GCnzRAJL.html
30-07-2020||Delhi||Unlock 3.0: Delhiites elated to hire battery bikes from doorstep||Remember the blue coloured battery-operated bikes that could be easily spotted around the city, parked at various Delhi Metro stations, bus stops and other such public areas? Now think how convenient would it be if they could come right to your doorstep, allowing you to happily ride to the neighbourhood market for essentials. These Yulu bikes are now available for hire at your doorstep, on demand. And the residents are rejoicing!Come unlock 3.0 and Delhiites will be able to rise on these battery-operated bikes starting from their homes, to move around the city. “Wearing a mask and gloves and riding a bicycle that can be ordered at your doorstep is far better than taking public transport for the time being. In public transport, there’s scare of fellow passengers not maintaining distance and violating the social distancing norms. But while cycling, the ball is in your court,” says Charanpreet Singh, a resident of Defence Colony, who was an avid user of these bikes before the pandemic struck.The concern of rising diesel and petroleum prices, as witnessed all through unlock 2.0, is another reason for city dwellers to welcome this mode of transport. “The petrol prices have risen rapidly in the past few months. For smaller distances, for the time being, bikes on demand will be a huge relief for people who are already undergoing economic stress,” says Akshay Saxena, a resident of Safdarjung Enclave.Biking around the city and revisiting familiar places without the fear of using public transport is another factor that’s making Delhiites happy. “I’m glad we can rent bikes yet again, and can also ride in pairs while maintaining social distancing to explore Delhi during the pandemic. The city looks deserted, but also seems serene at the same time,” says Ashish Thakur, a resident of Vasant Kunj, looking forward to join his close friend on a biking spree around the city.The clear blue skies, as a result of the pandemic and consequent lockdown, have already made cycling an interesting activity for many. Pictures of people cycling around India Gate have been flooding social media. So battery operated rented bicycles are bound to be a hit. Radhika Bajpayee, a resident of DLF Phase 2, Gurugram, says, “Shifting to cycling as a mode of transportation would do wonders for our environment, even more than carpool! I’m looking forward to hiring these bikes, whenever I visit the Capital next, and contribute to a better, greener environment!” Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/unlock-3-0-delhiites-elated-to-hire-battery-bikes-from-doorstep/story-tJFBFA6odwrgyNDTUTSU9K.html
30-07-2020||Mumbai||Trader arrested with fake N95 masks worth ₹21.39 lakh||The Mumbai Police’s crime branch unit 3 intercepted a tempo in Lower Parel and seized fake N-95 and V-410 V masks, which were being sold as branded masks, worth ₹21.39 lakh and arrested a 42-year-old trader under the Essential Commodities Act on Wednesday.The arrested accused, Safdar Hussain Mohammad Jafar Momin, owns a godown in Bhiwandi, and as per preliminary inquiry, it appears that he brought duplicate masks from Delhi and sold to local wholesalers in Thane and Mumbai.Following a tip-off, a police team laid a trap near Poddar compound in Lower Parel and nabbed the accused when he came to deliver duplicate and low-quality of masks to a wholesaler in the area. “During search we found 10,500 N-95 and 6,800 V-410 V masks worth ₹21.39 lakh inside the tempo. An FIR was registered in the NM Joshi Marg police station against the accused,” said police inspector Nitin Patil of unit 3. The police team also raided Momin’s godown and found PPE kit. As per inquiry, these low-quality N-95 and V-410-V masks are being manufactured in Delhi and then supplied to Mumbai. Momin has been selling these masks for three months claiming these were originals. He had bought the masks in bulk and stored them in his godown. He has been supplying face masks to medical stores and others without any license, said deputy commissioner of police Akbar Pathan of crime branch. Momin was produced in the court and remanded in police custody till August 3. After the lockdown was declared the Mumbai crime branch seized around 32.58 lakh masks worth ₹17.30 crore from different parts of the city in March and April month. The government has declared face masks and hand sanitisers as essential commodities to ensure that there is no scarcity of these two items and they are priced correctly. Under the EC Act, the government has declared that investigating agencies can carry out operations against those involved in the black marketing of masks and hand sanitisers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/trader-arrested-with-fake-n95-masks-worth-21-39-lakh/story-bYQVkGQrYb4cW6hXDSJOSL.html
30-07-2020||Mumbai||CM Uddhav Thackeray holds meeting on security ahead of Ram Mandir bhoomipujan||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday held a high-level meeting on internal security to discuss the law and order situation in Maharashtra on August 5, when bhoomipujan of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya will be conducted. The state government has reportedly received specific intelligence input that there could be “law-and-order issues” if Prime Minister Narendra Modi attends the ceremony in the Uttar Pradesh city. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, home minister Anil Deshmukh and senior officials from the home department were also present at the meeting. “Tension is likely to emerge on August 5, which is also the first anniversary of the decision of revocation of the special status to Jammu and Kashmir. The Central government is likely to issue high alert on the day across the country. The tension could intensify if PM Modi personally attends the function [at Ayodhya]. In such a situation, security forces in the state are to be deployed at full strength as discussed in the meeting,” said a state government official, requesting anonymity. The law-and-order situation during upcoming festivals, Bakri Eid and Ganeshotsav, too, was discussed in the meeting. No leaders from three ruling parties of Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi are expected to attend the bhoomipujan ceremony. While Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar has already said he will not be going, Thackeray has said an e-bhoomipujan should be conducted to avoid crowding at the temple site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cm-uddhav-thackeray-holds-meeting-on-security-ahead-of-ram-mandir-bhoomipujan/story-VNyWXgp1wFG7MROrw4ecxH.html
30-07-2020||Mumbai||77 Mumbai cops test positive after 3,446 undergo rapid antigen test||Seventy-seven policemen from the Mumbai Police have tested positive for Covid-19 after 3,446 of its personnel underwent the rapid antigen testing, the police said on Wednesday.So far nearly 3,800 policemen from Mumbai police have tested positive for Covid-19 and 54 have succumbed to the disease. Over the past four days, around 726 police personnel from across the state have tested positive with five fatalities, taking the total death toll across state police force to 98.In a bid to cover maximum police personnel and early detection of infection in the force, the top brass of the city police department decided to test its personnel through rapid antigen testing. In the first phase of antigen testing, the authority has decided to send only those policemen for antigen testing who are from the 44-55 age group. Naval Bajaj, joint commissioner of police (administration), confirmed that 308 officers and 3,171 constabulary personnel have undergone the testing and 77 personnel have tested positive.Of the infected personnel, those with symptoms and comorbidities would not be allowed home quarantine and would have to undergo treatment at Covid hospitals or in the four dedicated police Covid care centres.So far, police stations in the east region have reported the most Covid-19 cases with 27 positives, followed by west, central and south regions with 21, 17 and 12 cases, respectively.In west region, nine policemen from Khar police station including the head of the police station tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. Since the infected senior inspector is asymptomatic, he has quarantined himself at his home while five policemen with symptoms were admitted to Lilavati Hospital.An inspector and an investigating officer of actor Salman Khan’s hit-and-run case who is currently posted at Vile Parle police station has also tested positive.According to the police department, personnel from the local arms divisions (the reserve police force of city police) have the maximum Covid infection cases.Among the 94 city police stations, LT Marg police station has the highest number of cases with 57 positives, followed by Sir JJ Marg and Marine Drive police stations with 46 and 43 cases, respectively.Speaking about the status of infection in the entire state police force, Vinayak Deshmukh, assistant inspector general of police (law and order) said that of the total 8,958 infected policemen from the state police force, 6,962 have already recovered. “Many recovered police personnel have also resumed duty as cops are not afraid of the disease,” Deshmukh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/77-mumbai-cops-test-positive-after-3-446-undergo-rapid-antigen-test/story-bMm3WCiUAvbXO5Qe28izlL.html
30-07-2020||Mumbai||Restriction on artists above 65 likely to be reviewed on August 1, State informs HC||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday informed the Bombay high court (HC) that the restrictions imposed on cast and crew members above 65 years of age from attending film and television shootings was a temporary measure and may be reviewed when the current lockdown ends on July 31.Government lawyer Purnima Kantharia informed the bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice Riyaz Chagla that the guideline was issued in the interest of aged artists, to safeguard them from Covid-19 as they pose a higher risk of contracting the infection.Kantharia said the guidelines issued by the state government for shooting of films and television serials, are expected to be reviewed on August 1, after the current lockdown is over. She added that changes might be made but was unable to detail what those changes will be.Kantharia was responding to a petition filed by 70-year-old Pramod Pandey, who has been earning his livelihood by performing small roles in films and television serials for the past 40 years. He challenged a clause contained in the guidelines issued by the state government on May 30, regarding shooting of film and television serials.Pandey contended that though aged, he is physically fit, but the government rule deprives him of his only source of livelihood, as it prohibited entry at film studios and outdoor shooting sites to cast and crew members above 65 years of age.He claimed that perusal of available data makes it clear that a majority of the persons affected by Covid-19 are below the age of 65. He added that has grave hardship and prejudice will be caused to him if he is prevented from participating in the shootings, as he will not be able to survive with dignity and self-respect.Amicus curiae, senior advocate Sharon Jagtiani termed the restriction as discriminatory, as it singled out senior artists and similar restrictions were not imposed on senior citizens anywhere else. He added that the guidelines were not bases on valid grounds.The Indian Motion Pictures Producer’s Association has filed a similar petition challenging the same clause. Orders on the two petitions are expected to be pronounced on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/restriction-on-artists-above-65-likely-to-be-reviewed-on-august-1-state-informs-hc/story-dB5FY9ZaktDbEhYtUrtepL.html
30-07-2020||Mumbai||BMC to begin second phase of sero-surveillance on August 10||The city crossed the 5-lakh mark for testing Covid-19 samples on Wednesday, recording the single-day highest of 11,643 tests conducted in 24 hours. The total number of tests conducted so far is 5.05 lakh. To expand the scope of its testing, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will begin the second phase of its sero surveillance survey from August 10. The survey will be carried out in R-North, M-West and F-North wards, to help the civic body ascertain the spread of Covid-19 in these areas. On Wednesday, Mumbai recorded 1,109 fresh cases and 60 new deaths, taking the city’s case tally to 111,991 and toll to 6,247. The number of discharged patients in Mumbai was 85,327 with a recovery rate of 76.11% and active cases stood at 20,123. The fatality rate was 5.57% and doubling rate is 72 days. One hot spot that has shown signs of drastic improvement – Dharavi – recorded only two new cases on Wednesday, bringing the area’s case count to 2,545 of which 2,212 have been discharged. Over the past five days, the number of tests conducted in Mumbai daily has gone up due to the use of rapid antigen kits. Of the daily testing tally, approximately 30-35% are conducted using rapid antigen kits, said BMC officials. By May 6, the city had conducted more than 1 lakh tests. The 2-lakh mark was crossed on June 1 and on June 24, the 3-lakh mark was crossed in the testing tally. On July 14, the city had carried out more than 4 lakh tests and on Wednesday, BMC said a total of 5.05 lakh tests have been conducted. BMC has also sought opinion from state government authorities on how to undertake a sero-surveillance survey on a population larger than the sample used in the first phase. On July 3, BMC in collaboration with Niti Aayog and Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, started a sero-surveillance survey in three wards in the city to identify recovered individuals and estimate the spread of Covid-19. In a sero survey, a sample set of individuals undergo blood tests to detect the presence of immunoglobulin-G (IgG) antibodies, which are produced by the body’s immune system upon exposure to a virus. On Tuesday, BMC released findings from the sero survey conducted by the civic body as part of a national study to understand the spread of Covid-19. In Mumbai, the survey of 6,936 people from R-North, M-West and F-North wards found 57% from slums and 16% from other residential areas had the antibodies, suggesting they had been exposed to Covid-19 and recovered. The survey also revealed that 60% of those diagnosed with Covid-19 have been male and more women recovered after being exposed to the virus. The civic body plans to undertake a second phase of the study in the same wards, covering neighbourhoods like Dahisar, Borivli, Matunga, Dadar, Wadala and Chembur. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, said, “We will start the second phase in the same area from August 10. The areas will be the same to help us understand the community in those specific areas better. However, the samples will not necessarily be from the same individuals. But it will be from the same area, considering we have to gauge the antibodies in the surrounding community.”Kakani added, “Whether to go ahead and conduct sero survey on the larger population can only be ascertained once the results for the second phase are out. By mid-September, we anticipate that the results for the second phase will be out.”Officials said the civic body is exploring how a sero survey may be conducted on a larger population and whether the help of private laboratories would be needed in such a survey. A BMC official said, “We are also carrying out discussions with the state health department on the same. We also have to consider the reluctance by many to give samples. The problem with private laboratories will be consent. We should have consent of the individuals who come for their blood check-up on whether we can use their body to test antibodies or not. This process becomes difficult, and hence we will have to wait until the results for the second phase are out to better understand the modalities for the third phase.”After the first phase of the sero survey, BMC officials said the results indicate populations in slum areas have developed antibodies. Kakani said, “Our focus is clear that high-rises and housing societies are going to be crucial as slums areas seem to have developed antibodies.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-to-begin-second-phase-of-sero-surveillance-on-august-10/story-bYZRBbhFkDu2C3Y2dtFZWK.html
30-07-2020||Mumbai||BMC to follow-up on recovered Covid-19 patients on alternate days||With many recovered Covid-19 patients complaining of weakness and fatigue after being discharged from hospitals, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has instructed all ward officers to follow up on recovered patients.Ward officers will do regular check-ups of recovered patients and both private and civic-run hospitals have been instructed to maintain a list of Covid-19 patients who report serious health complications after recovery. A study, published in the July 27 edition of the Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA), said that in Italy, 87.4% of patients who had recovered from Covid-19 complained of symptoms, particularly fatigue and dyspnea (shortness of breath), even after two months.Doctors across Mumbai say they have noticed a similar trend, with recovered patients returning with complications. For instance, Ramdas Chauhan, a 65-year-old resident of Bhendi Bazar was diagnosed with Covid-19 on June 28 and admitted to Lokmanya Tilak General Hospital, also known as Sion hospital, the next day. When his oxygen saturation declined to 81%, Chauhan was shifted to the intensive care unit (ICU) and put on a ventilator. He remained in ICU for 14 days. On July 16, he tested negative and was discharged. Thirteen days later, he says he still has body ache and breathlessness. “At present, more than 75 recovered Covid-19 patients are seeing me with similar complaints. Around 12 have developed acute pneumonia which has scarred the lungs. Such patients can develop impaired lungs that can lead to further health complications,” said Dr Ansari Rehman, a general physician (GP) who is treating Chauhan. Cases like Chauhan’s have prompted BMC to follow up with discharged patients. “All ward officers have a list of patients according to their age and the seriousness of the infection. They have been instructed to follow up with patients who were cured and hospitalise them if they develop health complications,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC. The civic body has also instructed both public and private hospitals to keep a list of recovered patients who have returned due to severe health complications. “So far, we haven’t received any such serious patients in civic-run hospitals, but we are also checking with private hospitals,” Kakani said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-to-follow-up-on-recovered-covid-19-patients-on-alternate-days/story-7im1JQTDWoBzCitnsJav6L.html
30-07-2020||City||Navi Mumbai to start its first Covid testing lab soon||After spending months sending their samples to Mumbai and other cities for testing, Navi Mumbai will soon get its own Covid-19 testing laboratory. According to the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC), the infrastructure for the lab is ready and they are waiting to apply for approval from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to begin operations.The lab is being set up at the civic hospital at Nerul and officials claim it could be operational by Saturday.NMMC has so far been sending test samples to labs in Mumbai and other cities which has led to delays in getting the reports. There have been instances of patients dying before the test results came through. For the past four months, residents and local representatives have been demanding a lab in the city to ensure results are given within 24 hours.Municipal commissioner Abhijit Bangar, who took over earlier this month, had assured immediate action in the matter.“The process for starting the lab is underway. The equipment has been supplied and training is underway. Once completed, we will apply for permission from ICMR, which we hope to get by Saturday. As per the present capacity, we should be able to start with 500 tests a day. Once the lab starts functioning for 24 hours, 1,000 tests a day will be possible,” said Bangar.BN Kumar, a social activist from Navi Mumbai, said, “For over four months, a well-planned city like Navi Mumbai did not have a lab of its own, which was shocking. We were behind the administration for a long time for such a lab. It is good that the city will finally have its own lab.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-to-start-its-first-covid-testing-lab-soon/story-jwxQ9f9Y6Yaxnm1eWeu8lI.html
30-07-2020||City||Cab driver’s son, who had to leave Mumbai due to lockdown, tops school with 92.6%||Mahendra Vikas, a taxi driver, was among the thousands of migrant labourers who left the city after the lockdown was imposed. With dwindling earnings and mounting expenses, Vikas and his son Pal left for their hometown in Jaunpur, Uttar Pradesh. On Wednesday, Pal’s teacher Sarita Yadav from Goregaon English School and principal Amal Mullaji spent hours trying to connect to Pal to inform him that he was the school’s SSC board topper after scoring 92.6%, to bring cheer to his family amid difficult times. “We managed to get through to him for a few moments and informed him about his score,” said Yadav, who is already working on arranging a scholarship for Pal, so he can pursue a career in medicine. The father-son duo lived in a chawl at Goregaon (East) before the lockdown restrictions forced the two to leave the city. “His father would leave for work early in the morning. Pal would then do the household chores, cook for the both of them and then come to school. He has always been bright,” said Yadav, adding that Pal will pursue science stream. Mullaji said that Pal’s score was based on his merit alone as he had no means of extra classes or tuitions. Teen diagnosed with autoimmune disease before exams scores 86.4%Barely a month before her board exams, Jia Gaglani, a Class 10 student from Kandivli’s Swami Vivekanand School, was diagnosed with lupus, a systemic autoimmune disease that occurs when the body’s immune system attacks its own tissues and organs. To make matters worse, the 16-year-old had to be hospitalised a week before her first SSC exam. She was discharged on March 3, and took her first exam the very next day and appeared for all the papers. On Wednesday, after the SSC scores were announced, the Gaglanis were delighted to find out that Jia scored 86.40% in the boards. “Jia is a fighter. Though we were concerned about her health, she marched on calmly to give the exams,” said Jia’s father Mukesh. Jia is undergoing treatment currently at home but is also busy planning for her junior colleges applications. “I am fond of cooking and may want to pursue a career related to it. At the moment, I have decided to pursue commerce,” she said. Kurla student battling bone cancer scores 83.6%Fifteen-year-old Amruta Kalsute, who has been battling bone cancer since 2017, appeared for the boards with the help of a writer. Her efforts bore fruit when on Wednesday she found out that she has scored 83.6% in the exams. Amruta was one of the four students with cancer who had sought concessions in exams from the state board on health grounds. For over three years, the student from Kurla has been juggling school work and chemotherapy sessions every month. “I missed a lot of my classes but was able to catch up with the studies with the help of friends and teachers,” said Amruta, who has decided to pursue commerce. Her father Mahendra is extremely happy. “She is our champion. Amruta is enthusiastic about making a career in banking and we will do our best to make her wishes come true,” he said.Mankhurd couple clears board examsMankhurd resident Datta Kamble, 33, spent worked as a driver during the day and studied with wife, Kavita, 25, for the board exams at night. The couple scored 43% and 63%, respectively, in their very first attempt this year. “My father worked as a construction worker and we had to relocate every time he moved to a new construction site. So I did not receive proper schooling and my wife, too, dropped out after Class 7 owing to financial constraints in her family. But we both wanted to clear SSC exams,” said Kamble, adding that his employer also encouraged him to focus on exams. The couple now plans to study further. “While my wife wants to pursue Class 12 boards, I may opt for a diploma course and at the same time also focus on our five-year old son’s education,” said Kamble. Teen studies under street light, gets 40%Asma Salim Shaikh, the daughter of an Azad Maidan juice seller, has scored 40% in her Class 10 exams by studying under the streetlights. Her family lives on the street adjoining Azad Nagar police station. Shaikh is happy after clearing her board. Moved by her plight, former Union minister Milind Deora on Twitter announced to help the 15-year-old student from Dongri’s Hirjeebhoy Allarakhia & Laljeebhoy Sajan Girls High School with her college admissions. “I want to study arts. It doesn’t matter which college I get into,” said Asma, who is the first matriculate in her family. Dombivli student gives exam while ailing from chicken pox, scores 79.4% After the first three Class 10 exams, Dombivli student Aditi Palwe was infected with chicken pox. But it did not deter her spirit and she appeared for all the remaining exams and scored 79.40%. Aditi was given a special room to write her papers at her exam centre. However, her pain was so excruciating that she broke down while writing the exams. After passing with flying colours, Aditi now plans to take up the science stream. A student of St Teresa Convent High School, Aditi said she was well-prepared for the exams and used to dedicatedly study for two hours after school everyday. “I had studied well and was confident of getting a good score and so I did not want to miss out on a year and appeared for the exams despite the pain,” she said. She gives her mother the credit for helping her with her studies. Thane’s Marathi medium topper is avid Kathak dancerPriyanka Limaye, a student of Saraswati Secondary School at Thane’s Naupada, topped the Marathi medium in Thane after scoring 99.6%. She aspires to be a doctor and is preparing for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) exams. Along with academics, Priyanka also participated in extracurricular activities and scored 15 extra marks in dance. “I did not follow any strict time table, but ensured that I studied regularly. I never studied for long hours in a day. I would also keep myself occupied with Kathak and attend drama sessions. This helped me to remain stress-free and focus on my studies continuously,” she said. Priyanka always scored above 90% in her academics. She said her family’s support helped her strike a balance between her studies and extracurricular activities. Signal school student scores 66%Dashrath Pawar, 15, a student of the signal school at Thane’s Teen Hath Naka junction, scored 66% in the SSC board exams. Dashrath was studying in an Osmanabad school till Class 8. His family was not earning enough, so they came to Thane three years ago looking for a job. Dashrath’s parents sell flowers at the signal. He joined the signal school set up by the civic body and non-governmental organisation Samarth Bharat Vyaspeeth.“Earlier, I used to spend my time on the signal along with my younger brother, while our parents sold flowers. But some teachers at the signal school saw us and asked us to join the classes. The learning sessions are fun and the teachers are very patient,” said Dashrath, whose favourite subjects are languages, though he is yet to decide the stream he wants to opt for. The school is set up at a container at the Teen Hath Naka junction to educate children who sell items at Signals. “When Dashrath joined the school, he was not very confident and lacked detailed understanding of what he had learned until Class 8. We paid special attention on him and he managed to grasp the curriculum well,” said Aarti Parab, one of the teachers at the signal school. (inputs from Shreya Bhandary and Ankita G Menon)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cab-driver-s-son-who-had-to-leave-mumbai-due-to-lockdown-tops-school-with-92-6/story-vUmPDD3ZXyMdgQqmluMPqN.html
30-07-2020||Mumbai||State approaches MERC to bring down power bills||Citizens may get relief from their inflated electricity bills as the state government plans to approach the Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) with a proposal to bring down the amount household consumers are charged. Once approved by MERC, the proposal will be placed before the state cabinet next week. “We have decided to provide relief to the people from high power bills and will be a filing an appeal with the MERC tomorrow [Thursday]. As a regulatory body, all decisions pertaining to power charges need to be taken by MERC. Its decision is binding even on private power distribution companies,” state energy minister Nitin Raut said on Wednesday.According to energy ministry officials, who did not wish to be named, there could be two options — rebate up to a certain percentage in the existing power bill or reducing charges in the current slabs — that could be implemented to bring down consumers’ power bills from next month.Raut, however, said “the route to reduce the bill” will have to be decided by MERC. “The state will go by whatever is approved by the regulatory body,” he said.The decision to appeal to MERC was taken on Wednesday in a meeting of group of minister chaired by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar. MERC Chairman Anand Kulkarni, who is currently abroad, also attended the meet through video conference. The state cabinet, too, was informed about the move. Consumers across the state have been complaining about inflated power bills for the past few months, but power distribution companies have maintained that there was been no error on their part and that there has been an increase in power usage owing to summer and Covid-19-induced lockdown, with most people at home and the meter-reading suspended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-approaches-merc-to-bring-down-power-bills/story-dj3sXQS5KUi2jiK0Z0mCdO.html
30-07-2020||City||SSC results: Most students may join nearby colleges to avoid travel, risks||In light of the Covid-19 outbreak, some parents from the city are likely to send their children to nearby colleges to avoid travel and associated risks, said experts. Principals said this trend might be seen clearly in commerce and science streams, with several junior colleges spread across the eastern and western suburbs. Vidyadhar Joshi, vice-principal, VG Vaze College, Mulund, said top scorers from the science stream are more likely to opt for a nearby college. “Anyway, one can see a large number of top scorers opting for small junior colleges because they want to focus more on preparing for the entrance examinations. This year, more students are likely to do the same,” said Joshi. For students who live in the suburbs, travelling to colleges in central and south Mumbai, with the risks involved with local train travel, might be a big no-no.“My daughter wants to take commerce and pursue CA. She is a bright student and was planning to try for colleges in south Mumbai. But we don’t know how long the Covid-19 scare would last and hence don’t want to take our chances. We are convinced that her safety is more important than anything else and she agrees. We will look for a good nearby college for her,” said Tushar Mehta, a parent from Goregaon. Anushree Lokur, principal, Ramnarain Ruia college in Matunga, said the situation might be different for the arts stream. “For arts, students usually prefer good colleges as students come to these colleges to get an overall experience of the space. For science though, this might be the trend,” she added. The principal of a reputable college from the eastern suburbs said the trend might be for good.“It is time parents realised that any college which has relatively good infrastructure and teaching is a good college. There is a need to rethink the idea of what constitutes a top college. If parents start preferring nearby colleges, they will also get better with time and with meritorious students going there, their scores would be better too,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ssc-results-most-students-may-join-nearby-colleges-to-avoid-travel-risks/story-c52UrX34rQWrqtPsSxndxH.html
30-07-2020||City||Four become first from 2 tribal villages near Mumbai to pass Class 10 exams||Four students from two of the most remote tribal villages, Fulorepada and Pisepada, situated 22km east of Bhiwandi, on Wednesday became the first in the villages to have passed Class 10 examinations. The four – Avinash Waghe, Dipali Katkari, Ravi Mali and Pooja Waghe – scored 52%, 50%, 49% and 51%, respectively, and wish to pursue commerce. “I had never imagined that I would pass the Class 10 exams. This is surreal. With the amount of hardships we underwent, the score is still good for me,” said Avinash. His sister, Komal, had dropped out in 2017, while in Class 9, after their mother died of cancer. His father does odd jobs and travels to Bhiwandi and Padgha everyday to make ends meet. Dipali said, “I want to continue my higher education and am hoping to enrol into a college in Padgha now.” Her father, Sakharam, a brick kiln worker who earns ₹1,000 a week, said he could not believe that someone from his family has passed Class 10. “I cross-checked with her twice, she told me that she had actually passed. I am happy for her and am willing to put any amount of hard work required to see her succeed,” he said. Aniket Salvi, a Vile Parle-based political science teacher, whose organisation Rajani Foundation India has been helping the students since 2015, said it was a big achievement for everyone. “We are happy that these students could become successful and persisted till the end,” he added. “The nearest college is also in Padgha so paying ₹30 for a one-way ride is also not easy. We will try to help them in every way possible,” said Salvi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-become-first-from-2-tribal-villages-near-mumbai-to-pass-class-10-exams/story-We6uiCefgaQ050iNgywdgL.html
30-07-2020||City||SSC paper correction: A challenge during lockdown||When the state entered its first lockdown on March 23 owing to rising Covid-19 cases, the Mumbai divisional board, which includes Thane, Raigad and Palghar, had lakhs of SSC answersheets in schools and custodies (where papers from a few centres are collected) of the board. The last paper for SSC was on March 21 (history). When the lockdown was announced, most answersheets for the paper were still lying across 68 custodies in the division, yet to be sent to the schools for assessment. In the days to come, officials at the divisional board, with the help of its support staff and schools, ensured evaluation was done, even with the restrictions. A total of 50 lakh answersheets were corrected and moderated in Mumbai division this year. Keeping in mind the challenges, the divisional board made several changes to make the process easy. First, it took feedback from all teachers on Google forms to understand how much work was pending. Along with this, it asked custodies to transport history answersheets to respective schools and gave them the travel allowance required for the purpose. Answersheets of other subjects were lying either in schools or with the teachers in their homes. “A teacher from our school had gone to Talasari when the lockdown was announced. He came all the way to the school and collected his papers without any delay,” said Sudam Kumbhar, former principal of Shailendra High School in Dahisar. “On May 8, we authorised teachers to travel to collect papers from their schools and submit them to the moderators, depending on what stage they were at. This stage, however, was very challenging,” said Sandeep Sangave, secretary, Mumbai divisional board. While a few teachers had tested positive for Covid-19, some others lived in places where travelling was not an option. “We waited for a few days and then sent our staff to get papers from them. Sometimes, our staff had to travel to the interiors to collect papers from a single teacher. In Raigad, for instance, we did that for a teacher who could not come to her school,” he said. At the board’s divisional office in Vashi, staff was being picked up and dropped and worked at 5% capacity. The board also allowed provisional online verification of documents to grant bonus marks for sports and other categories. By the end of June, the office had received all answersheets. “We trusted our staff and schools and they delivered,” said Sangave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ssc-paper-correction-a-challenge-during-lockdown/story-wnEmlrvhSU4V72Aevdyd2H.html
30-07-2020||Mumbai||With more students scoring above 90%, FYJC admissions set to get tougher for aspirants||Though the admissions to first-year junior colleges (FYJCs) get tougher year-after-year, this year, principals said, the aspirants are likely to face a stiffer competition to get into a college of their choice, as many more students across all the boards have scored in the 90-95% range. “The competition keeps getting tougher every year, and it won’t be any different this year. The cut-offs may go higher than last year and it is likely that more students will be vying for the same seat, especially in top colleges,” said Marie Fernandes, principal of St Andrew’s College, Bandra. Principals feel aspirants opting for quota admissions too, will feel the heat. “Generally, the rise in overall marks directly affects the cut-offs for general as well as minority quota admissions, and it will be a similar situation this year too. We will know the status once admissions to minority and management quota seats begin,” said Parag Ajgaonkar, principal, NM College, Vile Parle. While most Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE) and Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) schools in the city earlier highlighted that the number of students who scored 95% and above was much higher as compared to 2019, the Maharashtra state board too, saw a surge in the high-scorers. As per the information shared by the board on Wednesday, 83,262 SSC students from SSC board managed to score 90% and above this year, of which 14,756 are from Mumbai alone. In 2019, the Mumbai divisional board received around 1.85 lakh applications from students for the general admission round. While nearly 1.68 lakh were from the state board, the second highest number of applicants (7,881) belonged to the ICSE board. With ICSE students scoring big every year, experts said that the state education department needs to come up with a solution for state board students. In 2019, the state board scores were abysmal and this had a big impact on the overall admissions. The cut-offs at HR College as well as KC College witnessed a surge from 92% and 88.6% respectively to 92.4% and 90.2% in the commerce stream. In the arts stream, St Xavier’s College closed its first list at 94%, a dip of 0.20% from 2018, while Ramnarain Ruia College and DG Ruparel College, with cut-offs at 92.6% and 86.2% respectively, saw a marginal increase. There was a clear dip in the cut-off marks for the science stream across prominent colleges, with some seeing a dip of nearly 6%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/with-more-students-scoring-above-90-fyjc-admissions-set-to-get-tougher-for-aspirants/story-T2M29AnQF6X8XLg6p75RiJ.html
30-07-2020||Mumbai||HC restrains Godfrey Philips from infringing ITC’s Flake pack design||The Bombay high court (HC) on Monday restrained cigarette manufacturer Godfrey Philips (India) Limited from infringing the copyright of its rival ITC Limited’s ‘Flake’ packs that are popular in West Bengal and north-east India. The court also restricted Godfrey Philips from manufacturing or selling cigarette packs featuring any colourable imitations of the artworks appearing on Flake packs.Justice BP Colabawalla issued the pro-tem order after noticing that Godfrey Philips had substantially copied the patterns and colour scheme appearing on the Flake Refined Taste cigarette pack of ITC for its own ‘Select’ pack being sold in the same market – West Bengal and north-east India.ITC moved HC after Godfrey Phillips adopted a new design on its Select pack in December 2019. It alleged that the rival had infringed its trademark and sought an injunction contending that Godfrey Philips had tried to cash in on the popularity of the Flake packs in the north-east market.In support of its contention that the trademark had a considerable reputation in the market, ITC pointed out that since 1994, gross sales of cigarettes sold under the Flake mark was ₹50,475 crore. In 2018-19 this figure rose to ₹6,603.64 crore, including ₹3,675 crore from sales of only the Flake Refined Taste pack.Justice Colabawalla accepted the submissions made on behalf of ITC Limited, that the mark adopted by Godfrey Philips on its Select pack was a substantial copy of the Flake mark. He noted that the “strikingly similar artistic label is itself indicative of the defendant’s [Godfrey Philips] ill intent”.“Looking at the popularity of the Flake Refined Taste pack of the plaintiff in the market [north-east India and West Bengal], where the defendant has also launched the impugned pack, prima facie it appears that the defendant wants to boost its sales by coming as close as possible to the Flake Refined Taste pack of the plaintiff,” the judge added.HC noted that Godfrey Philips’s Select pack used boomerang-shaped devices comprising of concentric arcs in gold and red colours, which appeared to be a substantial replication of the boomerang appearing on ITC’s Flake Refined Taste pack.“It has the same white, gold and red colour scheme as that of the plaintiff’s Flake Refined Taste pack,” said the judge. “It cannot be a matter of coincidence that the stylised ‘S’ adopted [by Godfrey Philips] in the present case, is a substantial copy of the boomerang appearing on the plaintiff’s [ITC’s] pack.”Further, the judge said that even the colour combination and the brand name is written in red, bold font against a white background, which follows the pattern on the Flake Refined Taste pack. He noted that the adoption of the five-spiked crest device by Godfrey Philips, prima facie, appeared to be a substantial copy of the five-spiked crest device used by ITC on its cigarette packs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-restrains-godfrey-philips-from-infringing-itc-s-flake-pack-design/story-nscxyZ2O1Y3GFstqC3yoXP.html
30-07-2020||City||22-year-old held from Bihar for Navi Mumbai fruit vendor’s murder||Khandeshwar police on Monday arrested a 22-year-old man from Bihar for allegedly murdering a fruit seller in Navi Mumbai over a petty argument on Sunday evening. “The duo knew each other from a long time. It doesn’t seem like there was a motive behind the murder. The accused is a short-tempered person,” said an officer from Khandeshwar police station. The accused, Mehboob Alam, used to sell coconut water before the lockdown. On Sunday afternoon, Alam called the victim, Saddam Shaikh, 31, and abused him over the phone and threatened him. Shaikh then informed his two friends about the conversation and the three men went to Alam’s stall near Cidco garden in sector 11 around 6.00pm on Sunday. He told his friends that he will confront Alam about the conversation. As the argument between the duo escalated, Alam attacked Shaikh with a knife on his chest and repeatedly stabbed him in the stomach, the police said. The accused also attacked Shaikh’s friends and then managed to flee the spot. Shaikh’s friends then rushed him to MGM Hospital in Kamothe, where he succumbed to his injuries. After the incident, Alam switched off his phone and took a train from Lokmanya Tilak Terminus and left for Patna to his relative’s house. The police was able to trace his location to Arrah station when he called his relative using a co-passenger’s phone. On Monday, a police team from Khandeshwar, along with the railway protection force, took Alam into custody. He is booked for murder and a local court remanded him in police custody till August 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/22-year-old-held-from-bihar-for-navi-mumbai-fruit-vendor-s-murder/story-nAIcLDOSM7PwVqSBxZz6uO.html
30-07-2020||City||Two mild tremors felt in Dahanu||Two mild tremors were felt in Dahanu in the wee hours of Wednesday. No injuries or property damages were reported, confirmed Rahul Sarang, tehsildar, Dahanu.The tremors started around 1.19am on Wednesday in Dhundalwadi, Amboli, Talote in Dahanu, as per the National Centre for Seismology (NCS), Noida. Though the intensity of the earthquake was not high and was recorded at 2.8 on Richter scale, people were scared as the area has experience several such tremors since November 2018. Earlier on July 24, mild tremors of 3.1 magnitude were felt in the area as well as five different states of the country, said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-mild-tremors-felt-in-dahanu/story-rePDz2ATu47uCX3TioMk1L.html
30-07-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra board’s best Class 10 pass percentage since 2004||The return of oral exams and the state board’s decision to grant average marks for geography paper led to the massive jump in the overall pass percentage (93.31%) in the Secondary School Certificate (SSC) exams, highest since 2004, according to experts. The results were declared on Wednesday. In 2019, the state education department had scrapped oral exams and internal assessments for languages and social sciences, a move that had led to a massive dip in the pass percentage (75.53%) and the number of top scorers that year. After facing flak, the department reintroduced the 20-mark internal assessments this year. The number of students scoring 90% and above in the state saw a jump of 191% compared to 2019 – from 28,516 in 2019 to 83,262 this year. In Mumbai division, the number went up by 174% from 5,399 in 2019 to 14,756 this year. At Dadar’s Balmohan Vidyamandir, more than 70% of the class scored 90% and above. “There isn’t one particular subject where students have not done well and that has been the main reason for everyone scoring so well. Students were very anxious for the past few weeks, especially after ICSE results were announced. The state board managed to elevate the mood of our students as well,” said Rupa Roy, principal. This year, students were given average scores for geography exam which could not be conducted due to the Covid-19 outbreak. Of the total 600 marks, 480 marks are for written exams and 120 for internal assessments. With the cancellation of the 40 marks written paper of Geography, the written total was 440 this year. “This led to a higher success rate in social sciences, as students who managed to pass in history also cleared the geography paper,” said Jagdish Indalkar, principal, KVK school Ghatkopar. Rajesh Pandya, teacher at Fatimadevi English School in Malad, which recorded 100% result, said, “It is a good thing that the internal assessments were reintroduced. It helped students to score better and get marks on a par with the other boards,” he added. BMC schools score 93.25% Schools under the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) recorded a success rate of 93.25% in SSC results this year. Over 13,000 students had appeared for the SSC exams from 218 schools under BMC this year. Of these, 76 schools recorded a 100% result.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/the-great-comeback-maharashtra-board-s-best-class-10-pass-percentage-since-2004/story-ERMgwrf6pOBXVY3Pg4vRYI.html
30-07-2020||City||Man held for killing son||Nallasopara police arrested Khwaja Miya Shaikh, 54, for allegedly murdering his son Amin, 32, on Wednesday afternoon. Amin was an unemployed drug addict and he would often harass Shaikh for money to buy drugs, leading to fights, said assistant inspector Shrirang Gosavi, Nallasopara police station.On Wednesday when the two were alone in their apartment in Nilemore village they had a fight on the issue and Shaikh killed Amin. Hearing commotion, a neighbour informed the police. “We took Amin to a hospital where he was declared dead in arrival. We arrested Shaikh and will produce him before Vasai court on Thursday,” said Gosavi adding that they are awaiting the post-mortem report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-held-for-killing-son/story-7OdOq2mRLRgGmUnucaEpgJ.html
30-07-2020||City||Trucks seized with goats worth ₹85 lakh||Palghar Police have seized goats worth around ₹85 lakh at Talasari in Palghar. The state government has banned sale of goats in open markets and has allowed only online sale in view of Bakri Eid scheduled this week. Many of the goats died as the transporters did not provide them with food and water during the journey. The carcasses of the animals were then dumped on the Mumbai-Ahmedabad highway.Various types of vehicles like trucks, tempos, pickup vans, cars loaded with the goats have been chased and stopped from entering Mumbai at Talasari, Vasai, Manor, Virar, Kasa and Waliv areas by the respective police stations.Palghar Police have also detained men accompanying the goats which were brought from Gujarat and Rajasthan to be sold in open markets in Mumbai, Navi Mumbai and nearby areas, said sub-inspector Sachin Navadkar, public relations officer, Palghar Police. “We have registered cases under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act and Motor Vehicles Act. Trucks loaded with goats have also been arriving from Uttar Pradesh, besides Rajasthan and Gujarat and many vehicles have been stopped on the Maharashtra-Gujarat border at Talasari in Palghar district, while smaller vehicles like cars and pick-up vans managed to sneak into the state but were caught at Manor, Virar and Vasai,” said Navadkar.Most of the trucks entered the state at Talasari in the early hours of Monday and the animals were dumped in the vehicles without following rules of transportation, said Navadkar. Talasari police caught two men in a Nissan Evalia who had dumped four goats with their necks and limbs tied on the rear seat.“Manor police intercepted a tempo carrying 52 goats worth ₹10 lakh while we caught a pick-up van illegally transporting goats worth ₹51 lakh,” said Navadkar adding that none of the trucks or vehicles had the permission or documents to permit the transportation of the goats.Police confirmed that the price of goats seized between Monday and Tuesday is more than ₹85 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/trucks-seized-with-goats-worth-85-lakh/story-nApX5t24rm8J3ZkMXamRdM.html
30-07-2020||City||RPF arrests man with marijuana worth ₹2.4 lakh||Railway Police Force (RPF) nabbed a man, who was carrying marijuana worth ₹2.4 lakh, from Kalyan railway station and handed him over to Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB). NCB Mumbai received information about a suspect who boarded 02617 Mangla Express around 1pm and informed other railway officials about the same. Following this, RPF officers at Kalyan started a search in the train. According to RPF officers a suspect was noticed on the platform with a luggage and upon checking, they found six packets each of two kg of marijuana worth around ₹2.4 lakh. An RPF officer said, “The suspect, Salim Aayub Shiekh, 38, revealed that a person from his vicinity, named Hafis, gave him the bag near Kalyan station and that he was paid ₹10,000 to deliver the consignment. We have handed him over to NCB.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rpf-arrests-man-with-marijuana-worth-2-4-lakh/story-BZB0hs0Zumkn3WhkmYfPyJ.html
30-07-2020||City||Maharashtra govt to provide more benefits to agro-based food processing units||To provide more benefits to agro-based food processing units, the state government in a cabinet meeting on Wednesday decided to relax the eligibility criterion that will help more firms to be considered as large and mega projects so that they can avail benefits of industrial promotion subsidy scheme. The state also graded the criterion based on the areas where the investment will be made. The government said maximum benefits will be given to units investing in districts such as Gadchiroli, Nandurbar, Osmanabad and Hingoli. For instance, if an investor is making an investment of between ₹50 crore and ₹100 crore in these districts, then the project can be considered for all the benefits given to a large project under the industrial promotion subsidy scheme. “If a project sees an investment of over ₹100 crore or creates 200 jobs, it will be considered as a mega project,” said an official from the industries department. To qualify as large project in Marathwada and Vidarbha regions and in districts such as Dhule, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg, the investment should be in a range of ₹50 to ₹200 crore. If the investment is more over ₹200 crore or creates 300 jobs, it will be considered as a mega project in the above areas and also get all the determined benefits, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-govt-to-provide-more-benefits-to-agro-based-food-processing-units/story-E5YA0YH5NEbfob0uwD7RuI.html
30-07-2020||Mumbai||Home minister rules out handing over Rajput case to CBI||Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Wednesday ruled out handing over the Sushant Singh Rajput suicide case to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and said the Mumbai Police will continue to investigate the case. Deshmukh on Wednesday chaired a meeting with Mumbai Police officers involved in the investigation, and also met chief minister Uddhav Thackeray after the meeting at the latter’s official bungalow Varsha. Deshmukh, however, refused to comment on the complaint filed by Rajput’s father KK Singh in a Patna police station and the subsequent investigation by a team of the Bihar Police in Mumbai.The home minister had, on July 17, said the Mumbai Police were competent enough to probe the case and there was no need of handing over the case to the central agency. His statement had come a day after Rajput’s friend Rhea Chakraborty took to social media appealing to Union home minister Amit Shah to transfer the case to CBI. “Mumbai Police are probing every possible angle related to the case. We have not come across any foul play. The details will be shared once the probe is completed,” Deshmukh had said then. Interestingly,after Chakraborty, deputy chief minster Ajit Pawar’s son Parth Pawar had, last week, demanded a CBI probe into the case.A day after Rajput’s death, Deshmukh had said that the police are investigating to check the angle of professional rivalry behind the case as reported in the media. Rajput, 34, was found dead in his Bandra apartment on June 14. The police had said it to be a case of suicide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/home-minister-rules-out-handing-over-rajput-case-to-cbi/story-hLQjnjEjSOJfFic3PSGI3L.html
30-07-2020||City||FDA raids warehouses in Bhiwandi and Thane||In a raid in a warehouse in Bhiwandi on Tuesday, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Thane found Vitamin C medicines being manufactured with more than the designated amount of drugs and fructose content, and seized products worth ₹6,00,800. FDA also conducted another raid in Haji Malang and seized dairy products worth ₹95,000. Acting on a tip off received by joint commissioner Shivaji Desai, FDA raided the Bhiwandi warehouse on Tuesday. Desai said, “Indian Council of Medical Research has prescribed a limit for Vitamin C in tablets which is 40mg. However, we saw there was 1,000mg vitamin C in the tablets. Similarly, tablets written ‘with no sugar added’ had fructose content in it.” In the other raid in an establishment on Haji Malang Road, Ambernath, FDA seized food items worth ₹95,000 late on Tuesday night. Based in information received by Sunil Bhardwaj, joint commissioner, vigilance FDA, a raid was conducted at SN Enterprises for allegedly selling duplicate products of a popular brand of butter. FDA seized 145kg pasteurised butter with the label of a popular brand, 135kg Mawa and 8kg unlabelled pasteurised butter packs. “We received a tip-off that this company was running without a license and without labels. There was also suspicious adulteration, so we raided the place and seized products worth ₹94,860. We have also given a notice to the establishment to stop business,” said Bhardwaj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fda-raids-warehouses-in-bhiwandi-and-thane/story-345v7bwUxnd2zujrKUmExH.html
30-07-2020||Mumbai||Heavy rain alert for Friday to Sunday in city: IMD||The weather bureau on Wednesday predicted the possibility of heavy rain in the city from Friday to Sunday, ending the month on record high rainfall. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) also predicted moderate rain for Thursday. Between 8.30am and 8.30pm Wednesday, the suburbs recorded 7.7mm rain while south Mumbai recorded 3.6mm rain, both falling under the ‘light’ rain category. Both maximum and minimum temperatures were at the normal mark. The suburbs and south Mumbai have recorded 46% and 40% excess rain so far this season. Mumbai has received 83% of its seasonal average rainfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/heavy-rain-alert-for-friday-to-sunday-in-city-imd/story-vopgOj4VoHMjJPmeStJ81L.html
30-07-2020||City||Woman steals ₹13L from home, gives it to lover||A 20-year-old MBBS student from Bhiwandi allegedly stole ₹13 lakh in gold and cash from her house and handed it over to her boyfriend. The boyfriend and his friend fled to Dhule in Maharashtra and were arrested by Narpoli Police with the jewellery and cash. According to Narpoli police, the accused Pratik Lale and Hemant Saudane, both aged 21, were arrested on July 24. The arrested were produced before a court on July 25 and have been remanded in police custody till July 30. Suvrna Songirkar, 40, had registered a theft complaint with Narpoli police on July 22 saying an unknown person had entered her home and stole jewellery and cash worth ₹13 lakh. However, as there were no signs of forced entry, police suspected some known person would have helped the accused to make duplicate key. Senior inspector Maloji Shinde said, “When we questioned the complainant’s daughter, we found her answers suspicious. After two days of interrogation, she confessed the crime done by her boyfriend and friend. We have arrested them from Dhule where they were hiding. The girl stole the money to have a future with the boy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-steals-13l-from-home-gives-it-to-lover/story-Tu5RfgeLnToGRwH9Gb2tsJ.html
30-07-2020||Mumbai||HC asks government to file affidavit as reply to plea by Nirav Modi’s son||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday directed the Central government to file an affidavit in reply to a petition filed by Rohin Modi, son of fugitive diamond trader Nirav Modi who is a prime accused in the ₹13,500-crore Punjab National Bank (PNB) fraud, challenging confiscation of properties purportedly belonging to a trust under his name.On June 8, the special court for trying offenders under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) ordered confiscation of movable and immovable properties worth about ₹1,396 crore belonging to Nirav Modi. The order was passed in accordance with section 12 of the Fugitive Economic Offenders Act, 2019, on an application filed by the Enforcement Directorate (ED), which is probing money laundering aspects of the massive fraud at state-run PNB.The special court has in December 2019 declared Nirav Modi a “fugitive economic offender” as contemplated under the 2019 Act.The properties ordered to be confiscated include bank accounts in India and England, residential and commercial properties in India, the United Arab Emirates and England, allegedly purchased by the fugitive diamond trader from proceeds of the crime.However, Rohin Modi has moved high court contending that the confiscated properties also include properties owned by Rohin Trust and challenged confiscation of trust properties primarily on the grounds of breach of principles of natural justice that the order was passed by the special court without making him party or giving him notice.The petition came up for hearing on Tuesday before division bench of justice RD Dhanuka and justice VG Bisht which directed the Centre to reply to the petition in one week and posted the petition for further hearing on August 7.On January 31, 2018, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered an offence under various sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act and relevant provisions of the Indian Penal Code against Modi and several others, including two PNB officials. According to the complaint lodged by PNB, between February and May 2017, Modi and his partnership firms namely, M/s Diamond R US, M/s Solar Exports and M/s Stellar Diamond got fraudulently issued 150 Letters of Undertaking (LOUs) from Brady House branch of PNB and duped the public sector bank to the tune of USD1,015.35 million (approximately ₹6,498.20 crore).A similar offence was registered against Nirav Modi’s maternal uncle Mehul Choksi for duping PNB of crores of rupees by using the same modus operandi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-asks-government-to-file-affidavit-as-reply-to-plea-by-nirav-modi-s-son/story-Nh8VXsfDXHgmzS9uOad2YO.html
30-07-2020||Mumbai||6-lane RoB to come up between Reay Road and Dockyard stations||The Maharashtra Rail Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (MRIDCL) will construct a six-lane road overbridge (RoB) between Reay Road and Dockyard railway stations. The bridge will have a width of 12 metres on both sides. MRIDCL will undertake the construction and reconstruction work of 11 RoBs and one road underbridge (RuB) in the city. Some of the work will include the construction of Tilak Bridge between Dadar and Matunga railway stations; RoBs at Ghatkopar, Byculla, Mahalaxmi, Currey Road and Lower Parel stations; RoB on Belasis Road between Mumbai Central and Grant Road stations. MRIDCL will also construct a road underbridge at Matunga Road railway station. A cable-stayed RoB is also being constructed between Byculla and Sandhurst Road railway stations. The existing RoB between both the stations will also be reconstructed. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on July 14 signed a memorandum Of understanding (MOU) with MRIDCL on the construction of the bridges in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/6-lane-rob-to-come-up-between-reay-road-and-dockyard-stations/story-XA80TRFNVZ7pDeTPHcTh0L.html
30-07-2020||Mumbai||After Opposition, Sharad Pawar’s remarks, Uddhav Thackeray to visit Pune to review Covid-19 situation||Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray will kickstart the first leg of his state tour today with a one-day visit to Pune to review the Covid-19 situation. Thackeray will review the pandemic situation and the measures taken to contain the infection in Western Maharashtra comprising Pune, Kolhapur, Solapur, Satara, and Sangli districts. The development comes after criticism by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) despite the CM’s assurances that he was using technology to monitor the situation from Mumbai.Even Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Tuesday said that a chief minister is expected to visit other parts of the state, but that was not happening in Maharashtra. Pawar said that he is more visible than Thackeray as he keeps travelling to check on the situation.“Being head of the government, he [Thackeray] is expected to monitor the situation from one place, but that doesn’t mean he should do so permanently. In between, he is also expected to tour the state, by taking out some time from his schedule to meet people and take them in confidence, which [in this case] is yet to happen,” the veteran leader told a Marathi news channel.“The chief minister will cover all the six regions one by one. He is starting with Pune — headquarters of Western Maharashtra — and will review the Covid situation of the region on Thursday. It will be a one-day tour. Dates for visits to other regions are yet to be finalised,” said an official from the CM’s office.At present, Pune is the worst affected among the cities in Maharashtra and is contributing more cases compared to Mumbai.Thackeray has been reviewing the Covid-19 crisis at regular intervals by holding virtual meetings but had not visited any of the areas outside Mumbai. Considering his history of cardiac problems (angioplasty in 2016), Thackeray may have been opting on the side of caution by mostly operating from his home ‘Matoshree’ in Bandra and his official residence at ‘Varsha’ bungalow in Malabar Hill.Dismissing the criticism over not stepping out, Thackeray told his party mouthpiece Saamana recently that he is using technology to take stock of the situation in the state.“Technology has advanced to such an extent now. I am meeting officials and public representatives. I am covering the entire state and taking decisions. When it is important to visit physically, then you do go to that place. With video-conferencing, you can cover the entire state,” he said in the interview. State BJP chief Chandrakant Patil had taken a dig at the CM over the issue. “Even a school student can say that our Uddhavji is not going anywhere,” Patil had told a Marathi news channel. Pawar came to Thackeray’s defence, saying that the latter is working day and night to flatten the Covid-19 curve as a one-point agenda. Significantly, Pawar has been visiting various cities and districts along with his party colleague and health minister Rajesh Tope, to review preparations made by local authorities to contain the pandemic outbreak. On Saturday, he was in Aurangabad to take stock of the situation. He also launched a campaign ‘Mission Zero — Aurangabad’ that aims to bring the city’s death rate down to zero.On Friday, the 79-year old leader was in Nashik, and before that he visited Solapur district on July 20.Leader of Opposition in the legislative Assembly Devendra Fadnavis and his counterpart in the legislative Council Pravin Darekar also visited several places to get a first-hand account of the Covid-19 situation from the ground.Maharashtra has the highest number of Covid-19 cases and deaths in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/after-opposition-sharad-pawar-s-remarks-uddhav-thackeray-to-visit-pune-to-review-covid-19-situation/story-91ZUq6CjiS3s4WyvgU1BVJ.html
30-07-2020||Mumbai||State seeks to club all petitions in HC challenging appointment of administrator to gram panchayats||Expressing anxiety over the July 23 order of the Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court (HC) which stayed the operation of a government resolution (GR) to appoint administrators to the 14,000 gram panchayats, the state requested the chief justice of the Bombay HC to club all petitions challenging the GR and an ordinance, filed at the three seats of the HC at Mumbai, Nagpur, and Aurangabad. The GR is based on an ordinance promulgated by the state on June 25, which empowered it to appoint administrators to the various gram panchayats as elections could not be held due to the Covid situation. The GR empowered zilla parishad chief executive officers (CEOs) to carry out the appointments.The chief justice said he would look into the request to club all the petitions but refused to restrain coordinate courts from hearing petitions or passing orders. On Tuesday, the division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Sarang Kotwal, while hearing one of five petitions filed at the principal seat, was informed by advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni that 11 petitions were filed at the Aurangabad bench and four at the Nagpur bench, dealing with similar challenges. Kumbhakoni further informed the court that after the benches at Mumbai and Aurangabad refused to pass any interim orders, the petitioners moved the Nagpur bench and managed to get an interim stay on the operation of the GR.Kumbhakoni then submitted that though the state was not alleging that the petitioners were resorting to forum shopping, it would be better if all the petitions were clubbed together and heard at only one of the seats. He also requested the chief justice to restrain the coordinate benches from hearing the petitions and passing orders till the praecipe for clubbing all petitions was decided. After hearing the submissions and request, the chief justice stated that he could not dictate what cases could be heard at the other seats. He said that while he had the discretion in administrative matters, he had no say in the judicial side as he was only a judge like the other judges. He, however, assured Kumbhakoni that he would look into the request to club all the petitions, and posted the matter for hearing next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-seeks-to-club-all-petitions-in-hc-challenging-appointment-of-administrator-to-gram-panchayats/story-gdRbK4W6QoB32kiG1o7F7L.html
30-07-2020||Mumbai||Govt contractors to get 6-month work extension due to Covid lockdown||In a bid to offer some relief to government contractors whose work has been hit by Covid-19 lockdown, the state government on Wednesday announced measures including a six-month work extension for projects. Following the footsteps of the Central government, which offered its contractors an extension of three to six months to complete the projects, the state finance department issued a government order to grant a work extension deadline of six months to contractors who seek the same. The six-month period will stretch from March 15 to September 15, and contractors will not be penalised for the delay in completing their works for their period. This will also mean a delay in most government works and projects by six months.The finance department noted that the lockdown had adversely hit construction and infrastructure works by impacting supply chains, access to labour, manpower, etc.“The guidelines issued by the finance department are applicable to all government contractors as well as those hired by local authorities, civic corporations, and public companies. However, individual authorities have the right to implement the guidelines in toto or make changes as required. The underlining motive is to give relief to contractors in these unforeseen circumstances,” said a senior bureaucrat. The other measures include offering relief via payment of security deposits (a percentage of the total work contract) and performance deposit. The security deposit is paid partially at the time of tendering, and the rest is paid through running bills raised by the contractor in the course of the project. The contractors will now get additional time to pay the deposit. For instance, contractors who were expected to pay 1% of the security deposit through their running bills will now be allowed to pay this amount until as much as 75% of the work gets completed. In the case of performance guarantee, if a contractor has finished work that is 50% of the total project cost, then 50% of the cost of the work done will be paid back as deposit to the contractor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/govt-contractors-to-get-6-month-work-extension-due-to-covid-lockdown/story-HWlNTOPRELXAnCx14oKZiK.html
30-07-2020||Mumbai||Unlock 3.0: Malls and market complexes to open from August 5||More than four months after the lockdown was imposed in the state on March 23, malls and market complexes will be allowed to operate in Maharashtra from August 5 as part of its Unlock 3.0. The state government on Wednesday decided to extend the lockdown till August 31 but has eased several restrictions.The state has further decided to allow outdoor non-team sporting facilities such as golf courses, outdoor firing ranges, outdoor gymnastics, tennis and badminton courts, and mallkhamba sites to function from August 5, with conditions of physical distancing and sanitation measures.However, it is yet to allow gyms even as the Central government has allowed them to operate while unlocking more lockdown restrictions.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday said the government has to exercise caution while relaxing restrictions as Covid-19 cases are still increasing in the state. As far as Mumbai and the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) are concerned, the state will have to be extra cautious, he said.“In exercise with the powers conferred under section 2 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and all the other enabling provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, it is expedient to extend the lockdown in the entire state till midnight of August 31,” states the notification issued by state chief secretary Sanjay Kumar.“Malls and market complexes will be operational from 9am to 7pm with effect from August 5 without theatres, food courts, and restaurants. However, the kitchen of restaurants and food courts will be allowed to operate in malls, wherein home delivery through aggregators will be allowed,” it stated.“Outdoor non-team sports like golf courses, outdoor firing range, outdoor gymnastics, tennis, outdoor badminton, and mallakhamba will be allowed with physical distancing and sanitation measures with effect from August 5. Swimming pools will not be allowed to operate,” it added.The standard operating procedure (SOP) for operations will be decided by the local bodies such as municipal corporations, etc.“Gyms are yet to be allowed to operate in the state. They will be allowed only after framing an SOP,” the chief secretary told HT.The issue of relaxing lockdown restrictions was discussed in the state cabinet meeting held on Wednesday. “We will be issuing more relaxations but have to be cautious while doing so. We will have to be extra cautious when it comes to Mumbai and the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR),” said a senior minister who attended the meeting.He said that the authorities will have to be more vigilant and focus more aggressively on tracing and treating patients in time. The state has also requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to continue providing personal protective equipment (PPE) and masks after the Centre decided to stop their supply from September 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/unlock-3-0-malls-and-market-complexes-to-open-from-august-5/story-Vh3Z9ErwAjKewRGoWj7PXO.html
30-07-2020||Mumbai||93.31% students pass SSC exam; 192% more score 90% and above||Maharashtra recorded a 93.31% success rate , a jump of 18 percentage points from 2019, in this year’s Secondary School Certificate (SSC) examinations, the results of which were announced at 1pm on Wednesday. A whopping 191.98% more students scored 90% and above in the state, from 28,516 in 2019 to 83,262 this year. In Mumbai division, the rise was 173.30%, from 5,399 in 2019 to 14,756 this year.Konkan division retained its first position among all nine regions in the state with a success rate of 97.71%. Mumbai division, which includes Thane, Raigad and Palghar, recorded 93.06%, also a jump of 18 percentage points, and stood fifth. This year, over 17.54 lakh students (including regular and repeat candidates) had appeared for the Class 10 examinations, of which over 16.37 lakh students passed. Last year’s success rate was 75.53%.This year, a total of 8,360 schools (37.04%) in the state recorded a cent percent result. Also, 242 students scored a perfect 100%, which includes two students from the Mumbai division. Social sciences, which included the cancelled Geography paper of 40 marks, recorded a 100% result. The number of students scoring 90% and above was also at an all-time high with 83,262 students from the state and 14,756 from the Mumbai division achieving the feat. In 2019, the numbers were 28,516 and 5,399 respectively. “This can be seen as the best performance of the state at least in the last many years. One can attribute it to the reintroduction of oral examinations and activity-based answer sheets that were introduced by the education department to make it easier for students to write their papers,” said Shakuntala Kale, chairperson, Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE). While the results are usually declared in June, this year, owing to the Covid-19 outbreak and resultant lockdown, the assessment was delayed thus leading to a delay in declaration of results. The education department had also cancelled the last paper, Geography, which was scheduled on March 23, and students were awarded an average of the marks obtained in the other five subjects for the paper.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/93-31-students-pass-ssc-exam-192-more-score-90-and-above/story-UzbXT3JahXwRbZ1wmaUZ8I.html
30-07-2020||Mumbai||Maha Covid-19 tally goes past 400,000||Maharashtra on Wednesday breached a grim milestone of 400,000 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, amid Mumbai and other neighbouring cities witnessing a fall in cases over the past few days and authorities claiming that the state has reached the peak of the virus curve. With the addition of 9,211 new infections in the past 24 hours, the state tally went up to 400,651.It took Maharashtra 143 days to reach 400,000 cases, with the first 100,000 taking 96 days, while the latest took just 11 days. The second and third 100,000 took 22 and 14 days respectively. The state has 1,46,129 active cases after the total of recovered patients went up to 239,755, taking the recovery rate to 59.84%, against the national rate of 64.24% as on Tuesday, according to data released by state health department. The state reported 298 deaths in 24 hours for the second time in a week — highest single day spike —taking the toll to 144,63. Of the new deaths, 60 were in Mumbai, 60 in Pune district (40 in Pune city, 10 each in Pune rural and Pimpri-Chinchwad), 15 in Kalyan-Dombivli and 13 each in Thane city and Thane rural. State’s case fatality rate (CFR) stood at 3.61%, against the national rate of 2.25% on Tuesday.Pune city remained on the top of the chart in daily infections, with 1,458 cases in the past 24 hours.Mumbai’s tally touched 111,991 with the addition of 1,109 cases.July has so far reported 225,890 cases, accounting for 56.38% of the total cases. Mumbai’s share in the state’s case tally was 27.95%. It was 33.35% when it breached 3 lakh cases and 41.61% when the state figures crossed 2 lakh cases. Mumbai accounted for 54.83% when state crossed its first 1 lakh cases. While the state breached grim milestone of 4 lakh cases, its positivity rate has shown a steady drop and reached 19.32%. The positivity over the week (July 21-28) was 19.64%, down from 22.17% during July 15-21 and 23.88% during July 8-14.“The improvement in the positivity rate is a good sign and will help us in moving fast towards flattening of the curve,” said state health minister Rajesh Tope.“Steady fall in the positivity rate, despite the rise in the daily tests, indicates that we are moving in right direction in containing the virus spread. From just 13,000 tests a month ago, to more than 45,000 tests a day today, we have been ensuring that no suspected contact is left tracing. We have been tracing about nine contacts per positive patient, which earlier was just three.This would help us in bringing down the CFR and contain the spread effectively,” said a top government officer who did not want to be named.Experts expect the flattening of the curve to begin in next few weeks after it reaches the peak by mid August. They however have a word of caution. “If there is no discipline of social distancing and wearing of mask, which I call social and mask vaccine, there could be reverse wave of the infection. Mumbai has certainly gone past the peak and MMR is on the verge of it, so will be the case of Pune. We may see a different trend in different cities and areas, but the plateau is expected in next couple of weeks,” said Dr Rahul Pandit, an intensivist and member of the state -appointed task force for critical patients.Cases in MMR have witnessed a steady fall in its share in the state tally to 28.80% on Tuesday, from 35.57% in July 21 and 42.91% two weeks ago on July 14. According to state officials, following Mumbai, eight other municipal corporations in MMR have successfully contained the spread.Kalyan-Dombivli was one of the worst hit cities in MMR two weeks ago. Its daily count of cases came down to 219 on Wednesday, from 661 on July 12. The city was one of the worst hit in MMR after Mumbai with positivity rate reaching more than 40% and doubling rate dropping to 15 days. “The positivity rate has come down to 21% in last couple of days, and doubling has reached 34 days with a recovery rate of 69%. This could be achieved through aggressive tracing of contact and their effective management through ward-level war-rooms. The patients are attended to within hours of the test reports we get from ICMR at 8.30am. We have 10 ambulances per ward and ramped up facilities of Covid centres and hospitals,” said Vijay Suryavanshi, commissioner, Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC).The commissioner said that the city is past its peak and expect the virus curve to stabilise in next few days and then beginning of flattening of the curve in couple of weeks. “Central government’s projection of peak for KDMC was 535-560 cases, which was crossed 15 days ago and now we expect our daily tally to go below 200 cases a day,” he said. Currently 888,623 people are in home quarantine, while 40,777 are under institutional quarantine in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-covid-19-tally-goes-past-400-000/story-YdLnaStkQw54sXLUqYd89N.html
30-07-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University scraps UG entrance tests this year||Panjab University has decided to scrap the undergraduate entrance tests that were scheduled for October this year and grant admission on the basis of Class-12 results. The decision was taken on the recommendation of a coordination committee headed by Navdeep Goyal.“As admissions have already been delayed, members of the panel were of the opinion that instead of waiting, students should be given admission on basis of Class-12 results,” Goyal said.It has been decided that the admission process will start in August and online classes will commence on September 1.For admission to UG courses, PU conducts common entrance test and separate tests are conducted for BA/BCom LLB honours (five years) and hotel management.NO APTITUDE TEST Also, PU has decided no aptitude test will be conducted for BSc fashion technology and BA and BEd courses and admission to these courses will also be on the basis of Class-12 results.It has also been decided that for courses where examination fee has been received, it will be converted to counselling fee.Former PU vice-chancellor Arun Grover, said, “The university should have made the decision earlier. As Class-12 results have already been declared, students won’t wait for long and may join other universities instead. This way, PU will lose out on quality students.” The varsity is yet to take a decision on entrance tests for postgraduate courses.ASSESSMENT OF CURRENT STUDENTSStudents of current batches of Panjab University and its affiliated colleges will be assessed on the basis of internal assessment and their performances in all previous semesters. They will be promoted provisionally for now and online classes for the next semester will commence.Regarding promotion of University School of Open Learning (USOL) students, the chairperson has been requested to send a proposal regarding this and admission to the next session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-scraps-ug-entrance-tests-this-year/story-RJRUe2WovHnGnbh2HBqT2I.html
30-07-2020||Chandigarh||Websites launched by SFJ being blocked: Punjab to HC||The Punjab government on Wednesday told Punjab and Haryana high court that it is blocking all sites that are being launched by the banned Sikh for Justice (SFJ), a US-based secessionist group that supports the cause of Khalistan. The head of the organisation, Gurpatwant Singh Pannun, has been declared as a designated terrorist by the Centre.The state responded to fresh application filed by one Bikramjit Singh Bajwa, a Mohali resident, who had demanded that necessary steps be taken against the SFJ, which, he said, has suddenly become very active furthering the cause of separate state for Sikhs. Earlier, the high court had disposed of his plea on July 3 on assurance of necessary action by Punjab as well as Centre. On Wednesday too, the plea was disposed of both the parties promising prompt action against the banned group.In fresh plea he had told court that in spite of assurance on July 3 anything in relation to the threat perception extended by the organization to the life of the petitioner has been done.State had told court that they are already examining the matter and all possible steps and measures are being taken agains, state has not taken requisite action against the group.However, government counsel said that government is examining prayer of petitioner for security and all possible steps and measures are being taken against the group. Centre too made similar assurance. Earlier, the HC was told that as many as sixteen FIRs have been registered and 116 WhatsApp groups have been blocked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/websites-launched-by-sfj-being-blocked-punjab-to-hc/story-dlJG3UVGT45LTO6Vd0mrlO.html
30-07-2020||City||Covid-19 bodies swapped at Rajindra Hospital Patiala||Patiala/Ludhiana Barely ten days after a case of swapping of bodies of covid-19 victims at Amritsar’s Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) on July 19, led to shock waves across the state, another such case was reported from Government Rajindra Hospital at Patiala on Wednesday. In this instance, the body of a man in his 62, Inderjit, of Basti Jodhewal, was ferried all the way from Rajindra Hospital to the Civil Hospital, Ludhiana. The second body involved in the horrific mix-up was that of a man in his 80s, who is from Sangrur.The incident took place in morning was resolved by the evening. Both hospital authorities claim the kin of the patient was at fault. Dr Preetinder Chahal, who is assigned the duty of disposing of bodies, at the Rajindra Hospital, said, “The son of the 62-year-old man had identified the body of his father in the presence of a representative of the civil surgeon’s officer and another doctor. Despite that he took the wrong body. Later in the evening, he told us in written that he was not in the condition to identify the body as he was in shock, due to death of his father.” “We have resolved the matter,” said Dr Paras Pandove, medical superintendent. Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “The son told us that he got panicked and could not identify the body when it was shown to him in Patiala. The person has committed a blunder. Fortunately, it was during the re-verification process at civil hospital the body turned out to be of someone else.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-bodies-swapped-at-rajindra-hospital-patiala/story-mslgZYrWVAjHRXGkcKP9tM.html
30-07-2020||City||J&K mulls utilisation of water flowing from railway tunnels in Reasi||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Wednesday decided to explore the utilisation and conservation of water springs flowing from railway tunnels in its hilly Reasi district.It may be stated here that the railway tunnels, which are part of the ambitious Kashmir rail link project, damaged natural water resources in Reasi.“The Reasi district administration is mulling to utilise and conserve the springs flowing from railway tunnels to meet the water shortage,” said an official spokesperson.District development commissioner Indu Kanwal Chib on Wednesday visited these tunnels in the Gran Morh area of Reasi. She said the water flowing from the tunnels could be preserved and provided to the areas facing shortage in the district.She asked the public health engineering (PHE) department to conduct a survey of T3 and T5 tunnels and explore the possibility of the water use.“Because of various factors, water supply may not adequately meet a community’s needs. Its conservation will ensure fresh supply for everyone, today and tomorrow,” she said.PHE executive engineer Sanjeev Malhotra, the village sarpanch and other officials accompanied the district commissioner.While the under-construction railway bridge, having a staggering height of 359 metres, over the Chenab river is being touted an engineering marvel, villagers had in the recent past complained that the water resources in the hills had dried up because of the tunnels.On March 24, 2013, at least eight labourers were injured during blasting at the T5 tunnel in Gran Morh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-mulls-utilisation-of-water-flowing-from-railway-tunnels-in-reasi/story-qUUGBw6eyf3usEyXLhOEHN.html
30-07-2020||Delhi||Being hounded for exposing graft: AAP MLAs||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders Atishi and Raghav Chadha on Wednesday said the North Delhi municipal body’s Leader of the House, Yogesh Kumar Verma, had issued them defamation notices over a press conference last week during which they questioned the municipal body’s inability to pay salaries of doctors and health workers in Kasturba and Hindu Rao hospitals and accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of corruption.All three municipal corporations in the Capital are ruled by the BJP.Atishi, AAP’s spokesperson and Kalkaji MLA said, “The BJP has not paid the salaries of doctors of Kasturba and Hindu Rao hospitals in times of the Covid pandemic. The AAP demanded (on July 24) that the BJP should pay the salaries of the doctors within three days, but they did not take cognisance. Now, they are trying to silence our voice with a defamation notice.”She said, “North MCD house leader and BJP councillor Yogesh Kumar Verma has sent these notices of defamation of Rs 1 crore to both of us. These notices are for raising questions against the BJP’s corruption at the MCDs. They have been exposed. The BJP believes they can intimidate us by sending defamation notices.”Responding to the allegations, Verma, leader of the House in the north corporation, said AAP had a history of blaming people without proof. “They said the Delhi government released their due funds but the councillors embezzled the amount. This is a lie. We have asked them to prove it but they have no evidence to substantiate their claim. Putting such baseless allegations on councillors is not fair and that is why I have sent them notices. If they do not apologise for these uncalled for remarks, I will drag them to court,” Verma said.Chadha, AAP’s national spokesperson and Rajendra Nagar MLA, said: “The leader of the House in North MCD has issued both criminal defamation and civil defamation notices against us. This means the BJP has claimed we have disrespected the North MCD. It clearly shows that the BJP‘s intention is to do corruption with the money of people and if you raise a question or expose them, then you will be slapped with defamation notices.”“I want to remind the BJP that the Aam Aadmi Party is not a political party that will be scared by such arbitrary defamation notices. The Aam Aadmi Party will stand with the people of Delhi and take to the streets against the BJP-ruled MCDs. We will go door to door and expose the BJP’s corruption. We will fight against the BJP at the courts and also at the streets,” he said.Verma said the Delhi government had to give Rs 1,181 crore to the north civic body but in the last two quarters, it had given only Rs 383 crore.“Whatever funds came from the Delhi government were used to pay salaries of our employees. We could pay the salaries to our employees until April. Their salaries of May and June are still pending and so the state government should clear our dues. We have requested the chief minister to release funds but to no avail. The AAP leaders (Chadha and Atishi) should come clean on their allegations and produce documents that how much money the government had given to North MCD,” the BJP leader said.Resident doctors of Hindu Rao and Kasturba hospitals have not been paid salaries for May and June. They had in June threatened to tender mass resignations if their salaries were not released but had withdrawn their threat after the high court had directed the civic body to pay their salaries at the earliest.In a press conference on July 24, Chadha and Atishi had said AAP would start a protest if the salaries of doctors are not cleared by the North MCD in three days and accused the BJP of corruption in the corporations. Dr Sunil Kumar, president of the Resident Doctors’ Association of Kasturba Hospital said salaries for two months — June and July — are pending. Kumar said they get salaries on the 25th of every month and received the salary of May earlier this week. He warned there should be no politics on the matter but a permanent solution should be devised.“Our salary is pending for two months. This has become a regular scene. The MCD blames the government and they blame the civic body but this blame-game is not the solution. If MCD has no funds, then the government should help them in arranging funds so that doctors, who are risking their lives amid the coronavirus pandemic, do not have to wait for salaries,” Kumar said. He said they would again write to the authorities next month to clear pending salaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/being-hounded-for-exposing-graft-aap-mlas/story-wjQZr1QjjIftAa2qzyRsoJ.html
30-07-2020||Noida||13 psychiatric patients, 6 staff of Greater Noida facility test Covid positive||A total of 13 patients and six staffers at a Greater Noida psychiatry rehabilitation centre tested Covid-19 positive on Wednesday. A rapid response team was soon dispatched to the centre, along with the Covid-19 nodal officer. While the patients and doctors were all asymptomatic, an entire floor of the rehab centre itself has been converted into a special Covid-19 isolation centre where the patients are kept. According to the management staff at Shanti Home mental health and rehabilitation centre, a special psychiatric centre at alpha-2 in Greater Noida, a total of 70 people that includes 40 patients took the rapid antigen test as a precautionary measure on Wednesday at a special testing nearby camp. “We have 40 patients here who have psychiatric needs and are being treated and rehabilitated by specialists so that they can move back to society and undertake the normal routine themselves. Though the patients did not go out since March, not even on an outing, we still decided to take the test at a camp held at a community centre nearby. Later the day, a total of 19 people were found positive. Soon officials arrived and after several brainstorming, it was decided to convert an entire floor into a special isolation ward. They will stay in quarantine for at least 14 days. We have also received the medicines from the team and are in touch with them,” said Dr Sumit Kumar, the resident doctor of the Shanti Home. Officials said that since the patients required special attention, they took the situation as an opportunity and decided to convert a section of the rehabilitation centre into a specially designated isolate centre where if the need arises other mental or psychiatric patients from elsewhere could also, be quarantined. “The rapid response team was rushed to the centre as we go to know about the case. They are in constant touch with the doctors at the centre. The issues here was that the psychiatric patients have different needs and medical history, so it did not seem right to send them to other Covid-19 hospitals. Even as we have enough beds at the designated hospitals, the staff there is not specially trained to take care of psychiatric patients. We inspected the rehab centre and found it had good infrastructure, and isolated all the patients there only,” said Alok Pratap Singh, Tehsildar Sadar and the Covid-19 Nodal officer of the region. He added that since the district doesn’t have any designated Covid-19 centre to take care of patients with special needs or psychiatric disorder, they now have an option. “The centre already has its specialist, rest the rapid team will keep visiting and assist them with Covid-19 care. We can also use the rehab centre in case someone with special needs is found Covid-19 positive,” said Singh. One of the most affected districts of the state, a total of 4,962 people have tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Gautam Buddh Nagar. On Wednesday, 65 new cases were reported in the city, while one fatality of Covid-19 happened after a gap of eight days, pushing the death toll in the district to 41. Meanwhile, 97 patients got discharged since Tuesday. The number of active cases, however, stands at 679, while 4,242 patients have got discharged till date. The recovery rate of patients in the district is 85.48 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/13-psychiatric-patients-6-staff-of-greater-noida-facility-test-covid-positive/story-Sa7DYckbuSdtK4pbuu5rQL.html
30-07-2020||Pune||Rapid test gives false negative for pregnant woman before delivery: doctor||A 20-year old pregnant woman was rushed to Sassoon general hospital (SGH) as a case of premature rupture of membranes for four hours from a hospital in Bhosari. The woman had to be operated on and so was tested for Covid-19 using the rapid antigen detection kit in which she tested negative. She had neither symptoms related to Covid-19 nor any history of contact with any patient. However, after delivery when the RT-PCR tests came forward it was found that the patient was positive for Covid-19 infection. Although the operation was conducted with full precaution, such incidents raise questions on the accuracy of the tests which are often the final decision for ground-level health workers. The woman who came from Bhosari was admitted on July 23. Dr. Shilpa Naik, associate professor at the hospital said, “The rapid antigen test is done to isolate the patient, but its sensitivity is lesser if compared to RT-PCR and so we did send a sample for RT-PCR. For both the tests we took the nasal sample. One she tested negative in the antigen test, we proceeded with the operation. All necessary precautions were taken inside the operation theatre assuming the patient to be a Covid-19 suspect including wearing of PPE kits and also following social distancing norms.” Dr Naik further said, “She delivered in the afternoon at 2pm, a healthy male baby. The baby’s swab test was negative for the Covid-19 infection. However, there was a rare complication post-delivery. After delivery, the uterus everted out of the introitus (III degree uterine inversion was seen). The patient had sudden tachycardia and hypotension so we gave immediate resuscitation and manual correction reposition of the uterus. So basically the uterus was inverted inside out which is a rare event as it happens once in 2,000 to 50, 000 deliveries. To put it in perspective, in my 20-year career at the hospital I have only seen three incidences of uterine inversion.” Due to vigilant monitoring, quick diagnosis, and immediate manual repositioning of the uterus, major complications of uterine inversion like neurogenic and haemorrhagic shock and severe blood loss could be prevented, Dr Naik added. “However, we cannot yet connect Covid-19 to these complications because a lot needs to be studied in placenta pathology to understand how much does Covid-19 affect a pregnant woman and the foetus,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/rapid-test-gives-false-negative-for-pregnant-woman-before-delivery-doctor/story-V3Rvpumwq1UTohp6Sk6o1L.html
30-07-2020||Pune||CM to visit city today as state, Centre’s focus shifts to Pune||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will visit Pune on Thursday to take a review of the city’s Covid-19 preparedness. In Pune, Thackeray will conduct a review meeting with district administration and Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials. He is also likely to interact with public representatives from all parties before returning to Mumbai in the evening. This will be Thackeray’s first visit to Pune after the Covid-19 outbreak started on March 9. The city’s Covid-19 infection graph is on the rise with 53,577 cases while the death toll stands at 1,215 as of July 28. Earlier, the chief minister concentrated on Mumbai while coordinating about the rest of Maharashtra through meetings via video conferencing, according to opposition party leaders. Thackeray visited Konkan after Nisarga cyclone hit the Maharashtra coastline and also performed the Ashadhi Ekadashi puja in Pandharpur. However, there was no visit scheduled for Pune, even though the city has been facing a shortage of ICU beds amid the rising cases. As Thackeray avoided visiting Pune, opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis and Shivajinagar legislator Siddharth Shirole criticised the chief minister for neglecting the city in the hour of crisis. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state unit chief Chandrakant Patil said, “The state has got two CMs, with one only sitting at Matoshree - Thackeray’s official residence – and the other (without naming Ajit Pawar) visiting other parts of the state.” Besides the CM’s visit, the central team led by Kunal Kumar has also arrived in Pune. The team suggested measures to the district administration to bring down Pune’s case fatality rate, which is currently at 2.38%. “We have suggested the administration some measures to bring down the case fatality rate. There are suggestions to install close circuit television (CCTV) camera in hospitals and follow ICMR protocol while treating patients,” said Kumar.To take a stock of the situation in Pune, Union minister Prakash Javadekar held a meeting with deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and others on Tuesday through video conferencing. During the meeting, Javadekar promised 100 ventilators to the city. These ventilators will be in addition to the 21 ventilators that PMC has received from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/cm-to-visit-city-today-as-state-centre-s-focus-shifts-to-pune/story-55I8dNLctFsS90RXZ9cggL.html
30-07-2020||Pune||Pune has four times more oxygen stock than required: Mhaisekar||The Pune division has enough oxygen supply and there’s no need to worry about oxygen supply in any crises, claimed Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar. Many Covid positive patients require oxygen as oxygen levels drop after catching the Covid-19 infection. Mhaisekar said, “I myself conducted the meeting with oxygen suppliers for various hospitals and various medical units. All the manufacturers had given details and made clear that oxygen cylinders are available at large numbers and they have four times more stock than the requirement.” According to Dr H K Sale of Noble hospital, the oxygen supply is regular but it is true that all of a sudden the demand has increased. “Earlier we use to need a vehicle once in a week but now requirement has been increased and daily there is a supply requirement. Though the demand has increased, the supply has been regular but some hospitals or small units might be receiving a late delivery,” Dr Sale said. The government is monitoring all the oxygen supply vehicles by GPS to identify the locations of the vehicles, Dr Sale added. Dr Bharat Purandare from Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital said, “There is no shortage in the number of oxygen supply as such but there is a shortage in the number of oxygen beds. We are not yet facing any shortage in oxygen supply for the beds that we have.” Mhaisekar promised that at any given crisis, there would be no medical oxygen supply crises.There were complaints that citizens are not getting oxygen in some hospitals but the administration claimed that there are no such specific complaints with them. However, the administration accepted that there are complaints about not getting oxygenated supported beds or ICU beds. Yash Gunjal, one of the contractors who are involved in oxygen supply related business said, “Almost all the suppliers have enough stock of oxygen cylinders. Even at their industrial units, enough oxygen is available. On the supply side, there are no issues at all.” Dr Sanjay Lalwani from Bharati Vidyapeeth hospital said, “We have our own oxygen plant which ensures that we have a constant supply of oxygen. To depend on oxygen cylinders at this time is suicidal because a Covid-19 patient requires a lot of oxygen and so we cannot depend on an external factor.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-has-four-times-more-oxygen-stock-than-required-mhaisekar/story-ZbcyQSbTJJ3LNaqpdVW7ZK.html
30-07-2020||Gurugram||Haryana forest dept uses drone to plant 5 lakh seeds in Aravallis||The forest department of Haryana on Wednesday concluded a drive using drone technology to shower seed bombs in the Aravallis . The aerial seeding has been primarily used in an attempt to green inaccessible terrain having steep slopes, fragmented or disconnected areas having no forest routes for normal tree plantation activities. The drones are an easy and efficient way to increase green cover in the Aravallis, said forest officials. The exercise, officials said, had commenced on July 18 and ended on Wednesday and covered as many as four districts of Faridabad, Yamunanagar, Panchkula, and Mahendergarh. The initiative was first started in 2019 with officials stating that the seed germination rate then being around only 15% due to little late dispersal. This year,however, the dispersal is very timely and 20-30% germination is expected. Species whose seeds were disseminated included Peepal, Pilkhan, Amaltash, Bael Patra, Pahari Papri, Ronjh and Khairi. The total drone seeding exercise was done on 100 hectare area in the four districts, with an average of 5,000 seeds per hectare. Of nearly five lakh seeds disbursed, 50,000 seeds were showered in Aravallis in Faridabad district, said a second forest department official, adding that they used two drones for this exercise. The drone-based tree planting technology has a very high chances of success if seeding is done timely, preferably, before the onset of monsoons, said officials. The technology requires a proven artificial intelligence-based system to assess the area for plantation sites selection of the site-specific local species. Soil moisture, choice of species, seed pellets, and mechanism of drone seed planting are the main deciding factors for successful aerial tree planting, officials said. Additional principal chief conservator of forests, Vinod Kumar, said, “The seeding drone is programmed to take a load of 2kg and is equipped with a precise delivery mechanism to drop seeds of different sizes at encoded intervals from a low height of 10 to 15 metre,” he said. Forest officials said that a single drone is capable of planting 20,000 to 30,000 tree seeds in a day. Dr Amrinder Kaur, principal chief conservator of forest, said that geo-location of blank patches and low-density areas can be mapped using satellite imageries in Aravallis. Data generated can be directly fed into drone software for auto plantation, which is an easier method. “The forest department is currently working on the development of mobile-based application to collect forestry intervention and monitoring data from the field for better management of forest areas,” she said. Kaur said drone-based seeding will boost vegetation enrichment in denuded and low-density areas. It will also enable plantation in inaccessible and tough terrains, which is otherwise difficult to reach. “The objective of this exercise is to ensure that all areas including difficult sites is brought under green cover. Seed dispersal using drones help in reaching difficult sites in short times. As the monsoon has come, we expect good germination this time,” she said. Environmentalists pointed out that since the Aravalli landscape is semi-arid with little rainfall, re-greening has always been a challenge. “I have been working on restoration and rewilding of Aravallis for the last 12 years. I have tried several native species of Aravallis such as Doodhi, Dhak, Dhok, Barna, Basa, Ronjh, and Khairi with seed balls and I can reasonably say that we have failed. I have tried this over several years in plots and monitored the plots.. Except for a few Doodhi germinating once in a while, I didn’t see any other species doing well,” said Vijay Dhasmana, curator, Aravali Biodiversity Park. Experts said that if the forest department is doing drone seed ball propagation, they must make sure it is studied, else they would not develop any knowledge as to how and what works in the Aravallis. “The most efficient technique for us at the Aravalli biodiversity park has been sowing seeds of diverse species on the landscape. Some of the pioneers have shown remarkable results,” said Dhasmana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-forest-dept-uses-drone-to-plant-5l-seeds-in-aravallis/story-83j75VA5ox3bhzNgAUp9OO.html
30-07-2020||Gurugram||Use, purchase of ACs in MCG, HSVP come under scanner||Officials of both Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) and Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) have been asked to provide an explanation as to why they purchased air-conditioners, and switched on the air-conditioning system in their offices. despite directions prohibiting so. In April, the Haryana government had banned the use of central air conditioners fearing an increase in spread of Covid-19. Similarly in May, the state government had directed that austerity measures be adopted due to shortage of revenue and had hence prohibited the purchase of luxury items, including air conditioners. Last week, HSVP officials received a complaint that some of their staff members had switched on the central air-conditioning systems. Similarly in MCG, an internal complaint was raised that at least seven officials have purchased air-conditioners, some using public funds, and placed them in their respective office cabins. Separate internal investigations have been initiated in both matters. Incidentally, both MCG and HSVP share an office in sector 34. While the HSVP owns the building and occupies its ground floor, MCG pays a monthly rent of Rs 20 lakh to the HSVP for operating out of the remaining three floors of the building. “As per the guidelines issued by the Haryana government, central air-conditioning system is not permitted inside government offices for the time being. The scenario will remain the same until a direction is received stating otherwise. Any report of violations is being promptly examined and concerned officials are being asked for an explanation. We are monitoring all developments related to violations,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG.MCG officials began working from the Sector 34 office from April 24, even as a nationwide lockdown remained in place. Just five days later, on April 29, the Haryana government issued an advisory to all government offices to stop using central air conditioning systems to prevent the possible spread of Covid.In May, there were several occasions where MCG officials were found to have violated this rule and turned on the central air-conditioning system, following which the MCG commissioner had cautioned workers and warned that a repeat could lead to disciplinary action.Due to the lack of air-conditioning, a lot of MCG officials ,in the meanwhile, opted to work from only on alternate days or come to office only twice a week.“The problem with the office is that there are no windows. Even if it is raining outside, the office remains stuffy due to lack of any air outlet/circulation. Hence, I am only going to office when there is teamwork needed or a presentation needs to be given. On all other days, I am continuing to work from home,” said an MCG official, in the taxation wing.Regarding last week’s incident, Vivek Kalia, estate officer, HSVP said he has also asked officials for an explanation on the issue.The problem arising from a lack of air-conditioners, however, is not limited only to public offices. Employees of several private offices too have been forced to sweat it out in heat and humidity, with the air conditioning in their building being switched off .In May, HT had reported that the Haryana government had issued standard operating procedures (SOP) only allowing companies and industrial units to use window or split AC units. As a result, many office spaces located in commercial buildings with a common central air-conditioning system had extended the work from home option to their employees rather than making them sweat it out in their otherwise swanky offices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/use-purchase-of-acs-in-gurugram-civic-body-offices-come-under-scanner/story-2aytByyThmw3l68FUXSqlM.html
30-07-2020||Delhi||As number of active cases declines, hotels released from Covid duty in Delhi||With Delhi now having only 10,770 active Covid-19 cases, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government on Wednesday released from Covid duty around 40 hotels that were converted into extended hospitals since May 29. Senior government officials said the administration is now considering allowing hotels and even banquet halls to resume normal operations, provided that they strictly adhere to the norms of social distancing, sanitising, mask wearing and restrictions on the number of people in gatherings. The decision to delink the hotels that were attached to various hospitals in the city was taken by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal in a meeting after consulting with the state health and revenue departments. “A few hotels were attached to hospitals to increase the number of Covid beds. In view of the improving situation and because most of these hotel beds are lying vacant for the past many days, these hotels are now being released,” Kejriwal tweeted after the meeting.On June 12, when Covid cases in the capital were rapidly rising, the Delhi government had released a list of 77 banquet halls and 40 hotels that were to be converted into Covid facilities to cope with the requirement of beds. A total of over 15,800 beds were identified in these hotels (4,628 beds) and banquet halls (11,229 beds). The model was a first in the country and it was approved by the Delhi government on May 29, when it had identified the five hotels to be converted into extended Covid hospitals. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThese hotels were Crowne Plaza (attached to Batra Hospital); Hotel Surya ( attached to Apollo Hospitals); Hotel Siddharth ( attached to BL Kapur Memorial Hospital); Hotel Jivitesh (attached to Sir Gangaram Hospital); and Sheraton Saket ( attached to Max Super Speciality Hospital).Of these, only Sheraton Saket operated as an extended hospital for the longest time; the rest did not receive any patients.An official of Max Super Speciality Hospitals, which was operating the Covid centre at the Sheraton hotel in Saket, said on condition of anonymity that the facility was discontinued “a while ago” as all Covid patients being treated there were cured and no new patient has opted for the hotel.A spokesperson of the Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals, which was allotted three hotels, said it did not have to use any of the hotels for Covid patient management as the hospital was able to handle the patient intake.Ramesh Dang, president of Delhi Banquet Federation, said Delhi is losing out a lot of revenue since all social gatherings are now being booked at hotels in Gurugram, Noida or other NCR cities. “Under the Unlock guidelines of the Central government, hotels and banquet halls are allowed to operate. But, Delhi had banned it in view of the high number of Covid-19 cases here. But, now that the cases have come down, these establishments must be allowed to open. We all are losing a lot of revenue since weddings and other social gatherings are being shifted to other NCR cities,” he said. Hotel and tourism associations welcomed the Delhi government’s move, but demanded that hotels now be allowed to resume services and tourism be promoted. “Tourism is one of the largest economic multipliers and we believe that each rupee spent on tourism could have an economic multiplier of upwards of 3- 4 times more for India. We have been requesting over the past five months for the revival of tourism,” the Federation of Associations in Indian Tourism and Hospitality said in a statement.The government in a statement said, “With the efforts of the chief minister, the coronavirus situation in Delhi has improved significantly and at present, only about 10,000 cases are active and more than 88% of patients have recovered. As on Wednesday, the Delhi government has more than 15,000 Covid beds, of which more than 12,000 are vacant. So, the demand of hotel owners and associations to relieve them of Covid duty was accepted on Wednesday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/as-number-of-active-cases-declines-hotels-released-from-covid-duty/story-k5qdQKV6MTPhI1ymP0H0kJ.html
30-07-2020||Delhi||Mixed response to new education policy, Sisodia welcomes move to rename MHRD as ministry of education||The reforms and policies announced under the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 on Wednesday evoked mixed responses from the teaching community and educationists across the national capital while the Delhi government said it would study the changes in detail before offering its opinion, though it welcomed the step to rename the Union ministry of human resource development as the ministry of education. The changes include increased focus on multidisciplinary courses, multilingual and digital learning, a revised curricular structure, reduced course load, and a pre-primary education curriculum. Meeta Sengupta, an educationist, said she largely supports the NEP for its visionary and idealistic nature. “The revised policy challenges schools and teachers to step up to the future. However, in some areas, the policy hasn’t done enough,” she said. “While the multidisciplinary approach and multiple entry-exit points in higher education are a welcome step, more work could have been done with respect to class 10 and 12 board exams by allowing students multiple options. Increased attention towards foundational learning is also a good move,” she said. “The focus on digital education, which comes amid a pandemic, also needs a robust implementation mechanism ensuring equity among all children,” Sengupta said, expressing concern over the usage of Artificial Intelligence to analyse inputs for the “holistic report card” proposed by the policy.Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia, welcoming the Centre’s step to rename the Union HRD ministry as the ministry of education, said they will offer its opinion on Thursday, “National Education policy after so many years of wait is welcome step. But as I have said earlier, an education policy cannot be a compilation of all wishful thinking about education...Its important to say ‘what we’ll do’ but it’s more important to tell ‘how we’ll do that”.“We are studying #NEP announced today in greater detail. Will express our opinions tomorrow...Edu. policy has to be the road map to fulfill those good wishes we already have about education.” he wrote on Twitter.Earlier in the day, he said, “It is of utmost importance that education be about developing human beings rather than develop ‘human resources’. A much needed step in the right direction.”Addressing privacy concerns, Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu Public School in Rohini and governing body member of the Central Board of Secondary Education, said any new development will have its own challenges and authorities will work towards it.“The policy seems to be progressive and it also promotes home language, Indian knowledge system, culture, and values. Focus on early childhood development is appreciable and the 5+3+3+4 schooling structure instead of the previous 10+2 system will ensure a strong base of early childhood care. Inclusion of 21st-century skills like coding for middle-school students and vocational courses is welcome since they are the need of the hour. However, the government must ensure that there is a standardised form of teaching and training across the nation,” she said.Mary Jyotsna Minj, principal of a government school in Kondli, said, “Introducing vocational courses at an early stage will help students who may not perform well in subjects like Maths and Science and then get a compartment. Many of our students come with the idea of setting up a business to support their family and they often show a tendency of doing better in vocational subjects. An early introduction to these courses will help such students.”In higher education, the major reforms include scrapping of MPhil course, the introduction of multiple entry-exit points in graduate courses, fees and charges to be fully disclosed, graded autonomy on the basis of performance, and multidisciplinary courses.Jawaharlal Nehru University vice-chancellor Mamidala Jagadesh Kumar and Jamia Millia Islamia V-C Najma Akhtar called the new policy “a positive step forward” and “groundbreaking.”The JNU students’ union, however, said the government used the pandemic to approve the objectionable policy. “Ever since the draft NEP was introduced last year, students across the country were on the warpath against it as it is another move in the neoliberal agenda to commercialise education,” it said in a statement.The Delhi University Teachers’ Association also condemned the move to approve the policy amid a pandemic. “Our opposition to the draft NEP rested, among other things, on its proposal to dismember universities and hand over every higher educational institution to a Board of Governors...DUTA calls upon the government to desist from bulldozing changes and instead to engage in a dialogue with the academia,” DUTA president Rajib Ray said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mixed-response-to-new-education-policy-sisodia-welcomes-move-to-rename-mhrd-as-ministry-of-education/story-u0VPRe5neHeolo4iRuC4mL.html
30-07-2020||Delhi||Ensure no construction takes place in Sanjay Van without DDA, police nod, says Delhi HC||The Delhi high court on Wednesday directed the city police and the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) to ensure that no construction is carried out in Sanjay Van area, a protected forest area in south Delhi, without their permission.A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Prateek Jalan issued the direction while hearing a PIL initiated by the court on its own on July 8 after coming across videos and photos circulated by visitors and joggers on social media of what appeared to be the construction of new ‘mazaars (mausoleums)’ near Mayur Pahadi, a spot inside the forest. On the last date of hearing, the court had directed the police and the DDA to carry out an aerial drone survey drones and inform it about the number of mazaars in the park and since when they were in existence.On Wednesday, the police in their affidavit filed through advocate Rahul Mehra, standing counsel of the Delhi government (criminal) and advocate Chaitanya Gosain, said there are 77 mazaars, which are old and no fresh construction of any mazaar was found there.The police also said, “Structures like a mandir (temple), kabristhan (graveyard), dargah and idgah have been there inside the Sanjay Van since a long time and no fresh construction or encroachment in the shape of any mazaar is going on or has come up in Sanjay Van in the recent past (especially during lockdown period).” But residents claim that construction has been going on inside the forest. Sandeep Bali, president of Mehrauli residents’ welfare association (RWA), said, “A group of morning walkers shot the videos of the construction activities -- fresh earth was dug up and cement was being used. There have been encroachments within the forest in the past as well. The police on duty there were not allowing walkers to approach the Mayur Pahadi part of the forest.” “We did a comprehensive survey using drones and did not find any encroachment. On the night of July 21, anti-social elements desecrated the old mazaars. The following day, police were informed about this after which they reconstructed the broken graves in order to avoid any communal tension,” a senior DDA official, privy to the development but did not wish to be named, said. When Hindustan Times visited the spot last Friday, and again on Tuesday, the site was found guarded by the local police. Although the cemented portions on some of the structures looked like an add-on to the old structure, there was no way to ascertain when these portions were added. DDA’s horticulture director and the in-charge of the forest Ashok Kumar said, “On July 22, we had written to the deputy commissioner of police about the broken graves. They sent a team to look into the matter. The complaint copy has also been submitted to the high court,” Kumar said. The matter would be now heard on August 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ensure-no-construction-takes-place-in-sanjay-van-without-dda-police-nod-says-hc/story-a0MWQgSq4JYg0dTkfTEspO.html
30-07-2020||Delhi||North body postpones proposal to levy professional tax||The BJP-ruled North Delhi Municipal Corporation on Wednesday postponed the proposal to levy tax on professionals, increase in the rates of electricity tax and property transfer duty --- the same which were passed by the SDMC House on Monday -- following stiff resistance from the opposition parties. The corporation’s standing committee, however, approved hiking tax on rented commercial properties, guest houses and banquet halls -- just like the SDMC. The SDMC had doubled the tax on such properties. However, the North body announced that a separate committee will be formed to evaluate the percentage of tax hike. The North body standing committee also proposed to enhance licensing by fee for various commercial establishments in industrial areas at least three times.“We want to improve the financial health of the corporation and for that we may have to take strong measures but it cannot be done without proper discussion. We have decided to postpone the proposals of professional tax, increase in the rates of electricity tax and property transfer tax till the next meeting of the House in August for discussion. We are not implementing these taxes for now,” Jai Prakash, mayor, North Delhi Municipal Corporation said.The proposal will now be tabled for discussion in the North DMC House. The opposition Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) had strongly objected to the corporation’s tax proposals. Vikas Goel, leader of opposition in the north civic body and an AAP councillor, said the AAP is against any kind of new tax or the hike in tax rates especially when the people are battling the coronavirus pandemic.“People are already suffering due to Covid-19 pandemic and more tax will only make things worse for them. We have strongly opposed tax proposals in the standing committee meeting and following which those were postponed. We will oppose it further if need be,” Goel said.Adesh Gupta, Delhi BJP president, said he has asked the SDMC to roll back the proposal to levy professional tax. “We will not let the corporations levy professional tax. North corporation has already deferred the move. We did not approve increase in the electricity tax. The corporations are in bad financial shape because the state government is not giving the corporation their due funds. The government should help the civic bodies in these testing times and should not do politics on the matter,” Gupta said. Mayor Jai Prakash said the proposal to hike tax on rented commercial property was in line with the recommendations of Municipal Valuations Commiittee-3, which proposed doubling the tax on rented commercial properties and also to increase tax on commercial establishments such as guest houses, banquet halls, private schools among others. “We have passed this but a committee will be formed to review the recommendations and check viability. We will see how much tax we can increase on different type of commercial establishments. We have also approved the proposal to increase factory licensing fee for industries and storage houses. We had to pass these proposals because licensing fee has not increased for over last 10 years,” Prakash said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/north-body-postpones-proposal-to-levy-professional-tax/story-QF7mFB8HvPhYbBZBifVgWO.html
30-07-2020||Delhi||Denied marriage with 13-year-old girl, contractor kills her relative||A 55-year-old building contractor used an iron rod to beat a mason to death in outer Delhi’s Narela on Monday night for objecting to his proposal to marry the victim’s 13-year-old relative, the police said.The suspect, Arjun Singh, had approached the victim to help with his marriage idea after the child’s father had outright rejected the proposal in the past, said a senior police officer investigating the crime.Singh was arrested within hours of the crime, even as he was trying to find means to escape to Bihar.Singh worked as a small-time building contractor in Narela and was constructing a private house in Sabauli Road neighbourhood for the past many months. His wife works in a factory in Narela and they have two children.“A few masons, including the victim, worked under him at the construction site. Singh and the workers had got to know each other and their family members well in these past months,” said a senior police investigator who is not authorised to speak to the media.Among the relatives of the mason’s Singh was acquainted to was the victim’s 13-year-old relative who lives with her parents in the same neighbourhood.“According to the victim’s family, a few days ago Singh had approached the girl’s father with his proposal to marry her, but Singh was scolded and asked to keep away from the child,” said the officer.On Monday night, Singh allegedly met the girl’s 48-year-old relative to seek his help in convincing the girl’s father. “Singh also offered to help the victim and the girl’s family with money, but the victim reminded Singh of the age difference between him and the child and chided him for thinking about marrying a minor girl,” said the investigator.This led to an argument during which Singh allegedly manhandled the victim before his relatives arrived at the scene to intervene. Minutes later, Singh allegedly picked up an iron rod from the construction site and beat the victim to death.While Singh fled the crime spot, the victim’s family told the police about their past confrontations with him.“We registered a murder case and began searching for the suspect. Since he belonged to Bihar, we deployed police teams on possible routes he could take, such as bus stands and railway stations. He was caught in the early hours of Tuesday, within hours of the murder,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/denied-marriage-with-13-year-old-girl-contractor-kills-her-relative/story-P2epptZKdRQah9I7bsfgRL.html
30-07-2020||City||Covid-19: IIMC to skip entrance exams this year, first semester classes to go online||New Delhi: The Indian Institute of Mass Communication (IIMC) has decided to skip entrance exams for admission to eight postgraduate diploma courses for the academic year 2020-21, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Admissions will be done on the basis of marks scored in qualifying examinations up to the graduation level, followed by an online interview.A notification issued by the institute on its official website said on Tuesday, “In view of the worsening situation of Covid-19 in many regions and receipt of enquiries from concerned candidates and parents about the need to travel to centres for appearing in the entrance examination, the institute has, now, decided to go for a marks-based selection process, as a special case, this year.”The institute said it has decided to adopt a new admission process for this year, in which more weightage will be given to marks scored by candidates in the qualifying examinations, up to the graduation level, including the marks scored in class 10 and 12, followed by an online interview. IIMC, an autonomous institute under the ministry of Information and Broadcasting, offers eight postgraduate diploma courses, including English journalism, Hindi journalism, Radio and TV journalism and Advertising and Public Relations. Besides Delhi, it has campuses in Amravati, Dhenkanal, Kottayam and Jammu.The institute asked students not to apply again in case they have already done. “But they need to submit via email a written (200 words) or video (1 to 2 minutes) Statement of Purpose describing why she/he wants to join the course,” it read.The institute will issue a detailed notification on the marks-based admission process by July 30.IIMC has also announced online classes for the first semester considering the prevailing situation. “The first semester of all PG diploma courses will be conducted in the online mode only in this academic year. It is expected from all the prospective students that they have access to a good quality laptop or computer with strong internet connection at home or their place of stay,” the notification read.Satish Nambudiripad, additional director general (admissions), said, “After a due consideration, the institute has decided to switch to merit-based admission this year. We cannot call students to entrance examination centres and it won’t be feasible for many to take entrance exams online. The marks will carry 80% weightage and the remaining 20% will be for the interview.”Nambudiripad said the decision to conduct online classes for the first semester was taken to ensure safety of students. “Educational institutions worldwide are switching to the online mode of learning this year. We cannot take risk by calling students to the campus amid the pandemic,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-iimc-to-skip-entrance-exams-this-year-first-semester-classes-to-go-online/story-ugJ0WRMeQ2IgfiVXk37iII.html
30-07-2020||Chandigarh||26 cops among 53 fresh Covid-19 infections reported in Ludhiana||Nine Covid-related deaths and 53 fresh infections were reported in Ludhiana on Wednesday. The fresh cases included 26 cops, including the Division 6 station house officer, and 18 cops deployed in office of commissioner of police. The industrial town witnessed the highest single-day spike in Covid-19 casualties. The public is advised not to visit the CP office for three more days. They can send their complaints via email at cp.ldh.police@punjab.gov.inThe Covid-related death count in Ludhiana has mounted to 80. The virus has claimed 29 lives in Ludhiana in the last five days. The city had reported seven deaths on Saturday, while two deaths were reported on Sunday. As many as five people lost the battle with the virus on Monday, while six deaths were reported on Tuesday. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said a total of 60 patients (53 patients from Ludhiana and seven from other states and districts) had tested positive in last 24 hours. He said 2,886 locals had tested positive, while 417 patients from outside the district had tested positive. Congress MLA tests positive Senior Congress leader and MLA from Samrala Amrik Singh Dhillon has tested positive for Covid-19. The results of the rapid antigen test came out positive, while the RT-PCR report is still awaited, said civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga. Dhillon was suffering from fever, cough and shortness of breath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/22-cops-among-53-fresh-infections-reported-in-ludhiana/story-vssSYoxTSHvH7QoPnicYAL.html
30-07-2020||Chandigarh||Covid victim’s body swapped in Ludhiana, kin cries foul||The dead body of a Covid-19 victim was swapped and ferried all the way from Government Rajindra Hospital in Patiala to a civil hospital in Ludhiana. The incident came to light when the son of the 65-year-old Covid-19 victim raised an alarm. The development sent the doctors present into a tizzy. Senior medical officer (SMO) Dr Amarjeet Kaur said the patient’s son had identified the body at Government Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, but when the body was brought to Ludhiana and shown to the relatives for re-verification, one of the relatives claimed that it was not the body of the deceased. The patient’s son and other relatives were shown the picture of the victim’s dead body. After identification the body was ferried from Patiala to the Ludhiana civil hospital and the dead body of another Covid-19 patient was ferried back to the mortuary. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga blamed the victim’s son. “He told us that he panicked and could not identify the dead body when it was shown to him in Patiala. People need to be brave enough to at least identify their kin.” On the other hand, the victim’s son said that the body shown to him at Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, was that of his father while the body that was ferried to Ludhiana was someone elses. He said even the name and details on the bodysuit were also different. This is the second such incident this month. On July 19, the bodies of two Covid-19 patients were swapped at Amritsar’s Guru Nanak Dev Hospital. What is re-verification? As per the re-verification process, the aadhaar card of the deceased and other family members is verified before handing over the body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-victim-s-body-swapped-kin-cries-foul/story-RX3PFpS5jHNJI8QnjhYNWM.html
30-07-2020||Chandigarh||Kotkhai custodial death: Zaidi seeks better facility, computer to prepare defence||The special court of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has issued notice to the investigating agency regarding two applications of suspended inspector general of police (IGP) Zahur Haider Zaidi, who is an accused in Kotkhai custodial death case.Zaida has filed two applications seeking better facility and a computer to prepare his defence in the case.Zaidi stated that he is living with 12 other inmates and in such a situation, the documents are at constant risk of being misplaced and their safekeeping is difficult. The application mentioned that before the Covid-19 pandemic, his counsel visited him regularly and he could pass handwritten instructions and documents.“Since March 17, the visits of my counsel have been discontinued due to Covid -19 and as a result safe-keeping and proper organisation of the case-related documents has become difficult,” he stated. He has requested the court to pass instructions to the superintendent of Model Jail “to use the computer in the office of a jail officer for three hours a week under his watch” so that he can prepare his defence and related material.The application was rejected by the superintendent, as there is no such provision existing in the Punjab jail manual wherein undertrial prisoners can be allowed to access computers to prepare their own case.The jail superintendent said due to security reasons, no inmate is allowed to use a computer in the office. “He was advised to prepare handwritten notes, if he desires so. He can also discuss case via e-mulaqat, and can use telephone,” the superintendent mentioned.In the second application, Zaidi stated that he is a postgraduate and an income tax payer, hence, is entitled for better class facility that is “B” class status. The court has sought response from the CBI by July 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kotkhai-custodial-death-zaidi-seeks-better-facility-computer-to-prepare-defence/story-VH2LnWDBRtyONlisqty8CL.html
30-07-2020||Pune||Pune students shine in SSC exams||Pune: On Wednesday, the state education board declared the SSC (Class 10) results and some students from Pune scored 100 per cent marks. One of them is Malhar Kamalapur from Bal Shikshan Mandir English Medium school, Pune. Talking about his achievement, Malhar said, “I am very fortunate to get 100 per cent marks in the SSC exams and the credit goes to my teachers, parents and friends who always encouraged me. I studied all the subjects throughout the year and did revision during the exams. I will opt for the Science stream and later decide on career opportunities.” Like Malhar, Aneeha Dsouza from SPM English Medium School also scored 100 per cent marks in the SSC exams. Shivani Sane, a student from Ahilyadevi High School who scored 99.80 per cent marks and is the school topper, said, “All my efforts and regular studies have borne fruits and I am very happy. During this year, I focused on all the subjects and did revision several times. Our teachers from the school helped me a lot to understand the subjects. I was a bit nervous initially while writing the papers. I am going to take the Science stream as Mathematics and Science are my favourite subjects.” Most of the prominent schools from Pune have scored 100 per cent passing results. Jyoti Masand, principal of Jai Hind High School and Junior College, one of the schools that secured 100 pass percentage, said, “It’s a success we truly deserved, an achievement which students have earned. The record is a joint effort of teachers, parents and students.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-students-shine-in-ssc-exams/story-PK6YQ3DoPs3naFVObEjDxO.html
30-07-2020||Pune||Pune’s profound deaf student scores 93.6% in SSC, full marks in Sanskrit||Pune: The beaming Omprakash Babar wants to pursue Computer Engineering and he is all excited after scoring 93.6% in the Secondary School Certificate (SSC) examination as a profound deaf student. Babar secured 100 in Sanskrit and 98 in Mathematics. The 15-year-old student of Samaratha Madhyamik School, Keshavnagar, Chinchwad, was born with a hearing deficiency. Anybody who cannot hear a sound below 90dB has profound deafness.“We discovered his inability to hear when he was three years old. I bought him a hearing aid when he turned four and began speech therapy at More hospital, which has NGO Cochlea Pune for Hearing and Speech centre, for two years,” said Sonika Babar, Omprakash’s mother.Looking at his fast improvement, his mother enrolled him in a normal school, after his training in Swaranad in Kothurd where he was trained with speech therapy and other methods for almost a year.“He loves to read and study new things and is always with books, so much so that I have to push him out of the house to play or do something to relax his mind,” said Sonika, who is also a special education teacher at Swaranad.“I want to become a computer engineer and loves Science and Maths. I would revise and solve papers every day in preparation for the SSC exams. I was confident of getting over 90 per cent and am very happy with my result,” said Omprakash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-s-profound-deaf-student-scores-93-6-in-ssc-full-marks-in-sanskrit/story-zenURiFQk8ivm5nxkBZpSJ.html
30-07-2020||Pune||Pune scores 97.34% in SSC exam; state results best in decade||Pune: The state secured 95.30 per cent in overall passing in the Secondary School Certificate (SSC) or Class 10 examination. The results were declared by the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) on Wednesday. Pune region’s overall passing percentage this year was 97.34. According to MSBSHSE, over 83,000 students scored above 90% marks with 242 securing a perfect 100%. The state’s overall result this year was among the best in the past 10 years and saw an 18.2% jump in pass percentage compared to last year, said board chairperson Shakuntala Kale. In 2019, the passing percentage of the state was 77.10 per cent. “There are multiple reasons, including reintroduction of internal marks, orals and activity-based question paper, for rise in overall passing percentage this year,” said Kale after declaring the results. Girls fared better than boys in the state with 96.91 passing percentage as compared to 93.90 percentage scored by the latter. Konkan division scored highest passing percentage with 98.77% and Aurangabad hit the bottom with 92%. The SSC exams this year were held between March 3 and March 23. The last paper of Geography, scheduled on March 23, was cancelled by the state education department because of the Covid situation. Last year, the results were released on June 8. Pune region also improved its overall passing percentage figure this year as it scored 97.34 as compared to 82.48 in 2019. Out of 2,57,008 students who appeared for exams in Pune division, comprising Pune, Ahmednagar and Solapur districts, 2,50,168 cleared it. Pune topped the passing percentage tally with 97.93%, followed by Solapur (97.53%) and Ahmednagar (96.10%). Of the total 3,507 schools in Pune division, 1,693 schools have got 100% passing results and three got zero. “Though the result declaration was delayed as compared to previous years because of the Covid-19 situation and lockdowns, we are glad that it is finally out. We had to cancel the Geography paper and marks for this subject were given from the average of other written examination papers. This year also the passing percentage of girls is higher than boys in the state.” said Kale. “Exams for 60 subjects were held this year and 100% passing percentage was scored in 20 subjects. Another highlight of this year’s results is that out of the 22,570 schools in the state, 8,360 secured 100% passing results. A total of 83,262 students have scored more than 90% marks in the exam, which is the highest till date.” Kale said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-scores-97-34-in-ssc-exam-state-results-best-in-decade/story-hHE6NBxn9xZytuJzQU4ILP.html
30-07-2020||Chandigarh||Brick kiln owner’s murder: Close to cracking case, say Ludhiana police||A day after a 65-year-old woman was hacked to death outside her brick kiln in Shahpur village of Payal sub-division, the Khanna police chief claimed that they were on the verge of solving the case. Ruing out robbery as a possible motive, Khanna senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harpreet Singh said closed-circuit television (CCTV) footage and the nature of injury suggested the assailants intended to murder the victim, Rachhpal Kaur. “We are exploring different angles, including personal enmity and property dispute. I cannot divulge details but I am sure we will crack the case in a day or two,” said the SSP. The police officer said the accused may have conducted a recce of the area before committing the crime. He also did not rule out the possibility of contract killers being hired to commit the murder. “They knew the victim was present at the brick kiln that evening,” said the SSP. The victim’s son Vishweshver Pal Singh is an advocate while her daughter Taranbir Kaur and son-in-law Simarjit Singh are doctors. Rachpal Kaur was killed while she was standing outside her brick kiln around 7pm on Monday evening. The bike-borne assailants pulled out a dagger and attacked her neck. She was rushed to a hospital where doctors declared her brought dead. Dr Simarjit Singh said the death of his father-in-law Sukhdev Singh, who was killed in a road accident on 2017, was also shrouded in mystery. He alleged that the crime was related to a dispute over an acre of land where the brick kiln stood. He added that for the past month his brother-in-law and mother-in-law had been receiving threats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/brick-kiln-owner-s-murder-close-to-cracking-case-say-ludhiana-police/story-xvzR4f1taSYVQpFBR3xGdL.html
30-07-2020||Delhi||Customer shot at during robbery bid at Tilak Nagar jewellery store, cops chase and nab suspects||Less than 30 minutes after five men allegedly shot and injured a customer during a robbery bid at a jewellery shop in west Delhi’s Tilak Nagar on Monday evening, three of them were caught after a dramatic, 10km high-speed motocycle chase by policemen who stopped the getaway car, followed by a shoot-out in Patel Nagar. The injured customer is undergoing treatment at the hospital and he is out of danger, said deputy commissioner of police (west) Deepak Purohit. A case of robbery attempt and attempt to murder was registered at the Tilak Nagar police station in connection with the firing incident. More than two dozen police officers were involved in the entire operation that lasted for nearly 25 minutes and was reminiscent of the high-speed adrenaline pumping pursuit seen on screen. Shots were fired by the police and the robbery suspects but nobody was hurt. The main suspect Sachin Jangra,31, who was driving the i20 getaway car, was caught after a police officer slid his motorcycle to a halt in front of the moving car, forcing it to stop. Two more suspects were overpowered in the shoot-out that followed with DCP Bhatia and his security officer firing one bullet each, police officers present at the spot said. “The two were identified as Shehzad,21, and Mohammad Anas,22. A fourth suspect, Manish Sharma,22, was arrested from Uttam Nagar after late night raids. He had managed to flee during the police chase from Patel Nagar along with Mohammad Nadeem, who is yet to be nabbed,” DCP Sanjay Bhatia said. Police said the whole incident started around 5.30pm when five men reached a jewellery shop near the Tilak Nagar Metro station and tried to rob it. Before that, around 4.30pm, they first tried robbing a jewellery store in Avantika, Rohini, about 10km from Tilak Nagar but failed as the jeweller sensed something wrong when all five persons insisted on being allowed inside together. They were turned away by the jeweller who told them that official work was going on inside. He, however, did not alert the police as he didn’t know the men were robbers, said a police officer associated with the matter. Jangra was disowned by his family a couple of years ago because of his criminal activities, police said. His father runs a jewellery shop in Tilak Nagar itself and Jangra knew some of the jewellers in the area. He had planned the robbery in Avantika and when that did not go as planned, he convinced his associates to strike the Tilak Nagar jewellery shop which was known to him, Bhatia said. To avoid being identified by the jeweller, Jangra remained in the car while the other four went into the shop on the first floor. The robbers faced resistance from those in the shop during the robbery bid and a commotion broke out. They panicked and in their attempt to flee, they fired a shot that hit customer Chand Chadha in the abdomen. The suspects fled in Jangra’s car which was waiting outside. Almost immediately, a message regarding the firing and suspects fleeing in a Hyundai I20 car was flashed on the police wireless, the DCP said. Four policemen who were on motorcycle patrolling spotted the i20 car near Shadipur Metro station and began chasing it. Seeing the police on their tail, Jangra took a U-turn and drove towards Moti Nagar. The policemen on motorcycles surrounded the vehicle from all sides. The car driver managed to ram one motorcycle and its rider fell off. Police said as the car slowed down in the impact of the crash, another policeman slid his bike to a halt in front of the vehicle. The motorcycle got trapped under the car as the driver tried to speed away and brought the vehicle to a stop, said one of the police officers, who was involved in the chase. His statement was later converted into an FIR registered at the Ranjeet Nagar police station under Sections 186 (obstructing public servant) 353 (assault), 307 (attempt to murder), 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 25,27,54, and 59 of the Arms Act. Jangra was caught while the other occupants fled after brandishing firearms. Soon, DCP Bhatia who was briefing personnel at the Patel Nagar police station also reached he spot and learnt from the public that two suspects had entered a bungalow, about 100m away from the spot where the car was intercepted. The police surrounded the bungalow and asked the suspects to surrender, but they fired at the police party. “DCP Bhaita and his security officer fired two bullets to scare the suspects who tried to flee through the rear door while firing once more at the police party. The policemen chased them on foot for nearly 500m and overpowered them after a brief exchange of fire. Two firearms with nine cartridges were seized from them,” said assistant commissioner of police (Patel Nagar) Piyush Jain, adding that Jangra was previously involved in three crimes, including two robberies in Dwarka district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/customer-shot-at-during-robbery-bid-at-tilak-nagar-jewellery-store-cops-chase-and-nab-suspects/story-LiJZQlakybNeCp1sWw1MCI.html
30-07-2020||Patna||Sushant Singh Rajput’s father files FIR; Patna police team in Mumbai to quiz Rhea, others||In a major development, a four-member team of Patna police left for Mumbai Tuesday to question actor Rhea Chakraborty and her four family members in connection with the death of Sushant Singh Rajput following a complaint filed by the deceased actor’s father on July 25, accusing them of driving his son to suicide, cheating, criminal conspiracy and other offences. Sushant’s father K K Singh, a retired senior government official, had on July 25 lodged an FIR with the Rajiv Nagar police station in Patna station against Rhea Chakraborty and her family under the various sections of the Indian Penal Code, said IG (central range) Sanjay Kumar Singh. “The FIR names Rhea Chakraborty and her family members, including Indirajeet Chakraborty, Sandhya Chakraborty, Suruti Modi, Souvik and others, under Sections 341, 342, 380, 406, 420, 306 and 120 (B) of the IPC. Sushant’s father has made a very serious allegation against Rhea and her family. He had alleged she had kept Sushant away from his family and completely kept him in her possession. She was also handling his bank account. It was also reported crores of rupees were withdrawn from his bank account.” Sushant was found dead at his Bandra flat in Mumbai on June 14. “The four-member police reached Mumbai Tuesday afternoon and is looking into the case from all angles,” the IG said. The Patna police team will also be looking at the statements of 38 persons, including of Mahesh Bhatt, Karan Johar’s secretary, Sanjay Leela Bhansali, which were recorded before the Mumbai police. A police officer said the SHO of Rajiv Nagar police station, Nishant Singh, has been made the investigation officer of the case. “K K Singh met a senior police officer of Patna and narrated his woes to him. He did not trust the Mumbai police in this regard,” he said. Sushant’s father, in his FIR, has said that on June 8, when Rhea found that bank balance of Sushant was depleting, she decamped with cash, jewellery, laptop, credit card, its pin number and password and important documents and doctor’s receipts. Singh further says in the FIR, “Sushant called his sister and told her that Rhea had threatened him to show the doctor’s receipts before the media and would prove him mad. Thereafter, no person would give him work. On June 8 night, Sushant’ secretary Disha committed suicide. Rhea had appointed her as Sushant’s secretary. Later, Rhea blocked Sushant’s number on her cellphone. Sushant was afraid that Rhea could have made him responsible for his manager’s suicide as she had threatened to frame him in the secretary’s suicide case.” Sushant’s father has expressed his inability to go to Mumbai to fight the case due to his health issues. Therefore, the case was filed in Patna.Rhea Chakraborty had earlier shared a post on social media to request Home Minister Amit Shah to initiate a CBI investigation in Rajput’s death case. The ‘Chehre’ actress addressed Sushant as her boyfriend in her post.Meanwhile, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has said the state government will initiate a CBI probe into Rajput’s case if needed. LJP chief Chirag Paswan had earlier spoken to Thackeray on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sushant-s-father-lodges-fir-patna-police-team-in-mumbai-to-quiz-rhea-others/story-oNZsGip8Vd5DmTUhdYtkaP.html
