31-07-2020||Chandigarh||NGO writes to Punjab DGP over removal of security for ‘leaders’||A Ludhiana-based NGO, Help organisation, has written to Punjab director general of police (DGP), Dinkar Gupta, to withdraw personnel of Punjab Police and home guards as security cover for self-styled leaders in the state. Advocate Gaganpreet Singh, president of the NGO, said these so-called leaders have knowingly created an artificial threat, so that police has to deploy security personnel for them. He added that these ‘leaders’ do not require any security cover and are causing loss to the state exchequer unnecessarily. He said that amid the Covid-19 pandemic, a large number of police personnel are required to implement government orders and should be working for the safety of the public instead.He said that some so-called leaders who have been provided security covers are misusing the security personnel by extorting money and land grabbing, creating terror in minds of the general public.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ngo-writes-to-punjab-dgp-over-removal-of-security-for-leaders/story-4uqIx1lce6tOMzWWKWTyuN.html
31-07-2020||City||21-year-old arrested for raping minor in Jewar||Greater Noida A 21-year-old man was arrested on Thursday night for allegedly raping a ten-year-old girl in Jewar, the police said, adding that a medical examination of the girl was conducted.According to the complaint filed by the girl’s paternal uncle, the incident occurred around 1.30pm on Thursday when she was helping her family in the fields. The suspect is also a resident of Jewar, the police said. “We were busy with paddy plantation in one of our fields in the afternoon. We were transferring the plants from a nearby field and my ten-year-old niece was helping us. While she was on her way from the other field, the suspect forcefully took her to another field,” said the uncle in his complaint.The suspect then started molesting the girl. “I was passing by the field where he held my niece and I heard her shouting for help. When I reached there, he fled from the area. I tried to follow him but he managed to escape. Then I called for help after which other villagers working nearby reached the spot,” said the complaint.They then called the police helpline and a team was rushed to the spot, police officials said, adding that the girl was sent for a medical examination. Based on the uncle’s complaint, a case was registered against the suspect under Section 376 (punishment for rape) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.“The suspect was nabbed yesterday night from a nearby area. He is a local and is also a farmer. The girl’s medical examination report is awaited. We will collect all the necessary evidence and file the charge sheet soon,” said Umesh Bahadur, station house officer, Jewar police station.The suspect was produced before a magistrate on Friday and later sent to jail, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/21-year-old-arrested-for-raping-minor-in-jewar/story-99ak6Tn9ReOqHUC6cvqz8J.html
31-07-2020||City||Welder killed as portion of roof collapses in a Greater Noida society||A man in his early thirties was killed while another was injured after getting trapped under rubble when a portion of an overhanging roof collapsed in a society in the Beta 2 area on Thursday.The deceased was identified as Qyum (single name), a welder who lives in Dadri, while the injured man was identified as Nand Kishor Mehto, a domestic help.According to police officers, both the men were indulged in doing some welding work around 7.30pm when the incident took place in NTPC Society.“The victim was doing some welding worker outside the window of a third-storey flat where renovation work was going on. Mehto, the domestic help of the house was helping him with the work. A portion of the eaves over the window collapsed suddenly, and both men were trapped under the rubble,” said senior sub-inspector, Ranpal Singh, Beta 2 police station.He said a call was made to the police helpline after which a team was rushed to the spot. “Both the men were rescued from under the rubble and rushed to a private hospital in Sector 110 where Qyum was declared brought dead and Nand Kishor underwent treatment. He is out of danger and recuperating,” said Singh.Police officers said that the length of the overhanging portion of the roof was longer than usual and had developed some cracks. However, no repair had been done on the cracked portion. They suspect the welding work weakened the overhanging portion of the roof and led to its collapse.They added that the family of the deceased has not filed any complaint in the matter so far and hence no case has been registered in the matter. The body was handed over to them following an autopsy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/welder-killed-as-portion-of-roof-collapses-in-a-greater-noida-society/story-cAiiQRUOh7HSuJXsSFBfVK.html
31-07-2020||Mumbai||CM announces slum rehabilitation schemes for cities||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced slum rehabilitation schemes for major cities in the state on the lines of those existing in Mumbai, during a meeting on Friday. He also announced a separate slum rehabilitation authority (SRA) for the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) to facilitate the redevelopment of the slums in cities like Thane, Bhiwandi, Ulhasnagar, Mira-Bhayander among others.The state government also decided to set up a stress fund for the SRA projects by bringing a proposal in the state cabinet. “The fund will enable the developers to raise loans for the projects from financial institutions. The existing laws too will be amended to tide over the difficulties being faced while implementing the rehabilitation projects,” said Jitendra Awhad, housing minister. In Mumbai alone, 370 SRA projects are stuck, while 541 are ready. Of the planned 5.07 lakh planned homes, 3.80 lakh are under construction. The state government is planning to raise over ₹700 crore through stress fund to push the stuck SRA projects because of liquidity crunch. The state government has also resolved to complete the SRA projects in a time-bound manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cm-announces-slum-rehabilitation-schemes-for-cities/story-YCIUkhLP2egoLSg2eRiqqL.html
31-07-2020||City||Noida: Rise in mercury, break in rains in coming days, says Met dept||Noida: Rise in humidity levels as well as temperatures, coupled with a break in rains, will cause discomfort to residents of Noida and its surrounding regions for the next few days, the weather department said.According to weather analysts, Noida and its adjoining regions will see a break from rains for five days due.“The monsoon line of trough, that is a low pressure line and causes rains in the region, has shifted southward towards Rajasthan. Due to this, the National Capital Region, including Delhi and Noida, among others, will be deprived of good rainfall for five days. The temperatures may also slightly rise,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecast centre, Indian Meteorological Department (IMD).“There is moisture in the region, which may cause drizzling in some pockets but that will increase humidity and cause discomfort,” he added.The maximum temperature on Friday was recorded at 34.8 degrees Celsius, a notch above the season’s average, against 31.5 degrees a day earlier. The minimum temperature was recorded at 27.3 degrees Celsius, same as a day earlier.The humidity oscillated between 74 to 91%. It’s expected to hover around the same for a few days. The maximum temperature on Saturday is likely to hover around 35 degrees Celsius.The region has so far been deprived of rainfall, even though short spells of sporadic rains were reported over the week. Gautam Budh Nagar has received an average of only 17mm rainfall for the season which is 92% deficit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-rise-in-mercury-break-in-rains-in-coming-days-says-met-dept/story-cTQnUPVbtZiS56J5TJR7eL.html
31-07-2020||Noida||Fixed slots, improved ventilation, sanitising machines— how Noida gyms are gearing up for business again||Guidelines rolled out by the central government on Wednesday for the third phase of lifting curbs imposed to stop the spread of Covid-19 spelled much relief for gym owners in Noida whose establishments have been shut since March. With the new guidelines for “Unlock 3” announcing gyms and yoga centres to reopen from August 5, gym owners in the city have started making preparations to open their doors for customers.Even as they wait for the union health ministry to issue a standard operating procedure (SOP), many gyms in the city have started disinfecting their establishments, improving the ventilation systems, servicing their machines and buying sanitisation and other equipments to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) once they reopen to business.“We all are very happy that gyms will finally be allowed to open. We had been receiving calls from our customers who were missing working out in the gym, even though we had been in touch with many of them guiding them with working out at home,” said Deepa Ahuja, who owns the Sector 108 branch of Anytime Fitness gym – an American Fitness chains of health and fitness clubs. “We have already started planning safety measures to ensure sanitisation and social distancing. We will make the use of Aarogya Setu mobile application compulsory for our members who will be asked to carry their own wipes and gloves. We have also started installing HEPA (high-efficiency particulate) filters in the air conditioners, and hired an agency to sanitise the gym every 24-hours. Every machine will be coated with approved chemicals so that the surface stays virus-free for 14 days. We are also planning to install disinfection tunnels stations at the entrance of the gym.”Adding that the gym authorities are also working on plans to extend the membership programmes to make it up to the customers who lost more than four months of exercising at the gym, Ahuja said that she will only begin contacting the members once the SOP is released.Some gym owners in the city also said they are working on plans such as mandatory booking of slots to avoid too many people working out at the same time. “We have already started cleaning and sanitising the gym, and have bought new machines. Once the SOP is out, we will ask our members to choose a time slot so that we can avoid overcrowding at the fitness club,” said Bharat (goes by a single name), owner, The Fitness Bar, a gym at Sector 120.“Yoga institutes and gymnasiums will be allowed to open from August 5, 2020. In this regard standard operating Procedure (SOP) will be issued by the ministry of health & family welfare (MoHFW) for ensuring social distancing and to contain the spread of Covid-19,” stated the government order on Unlock 3.The Uttar Pradesh government has also given its nod for opening of gyms in the state. “We are waiting for the detailed SOP to be issued by the health ministry, based on which we will issue instructions to the gyms in the district,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate, Gautam Budh NagarMany fitness enthusiasts are looking forward to the reopening of gyms. “I’m excited that the gyms will finally be open, as working out at home is good but it’s not the same as working out at a gym where we have instructors to guide and help us. The pandemic will stay for some more time and we will have to deal with it no matter what. I just hope that my gym makes up for the lost months, as my membership expired in June,” Kartik Kumar, a Noida-based techie who goes to a gym in Sector 77.Gymnasiums in Noida were ordered to shut on March 15. There are about 400 gyms in the district.Gym owners said they are making all arrangements to ensure the risk of getting exposed to the infection is minimised. “We are working on plans to ensure customers maintain social distance, so on our mobile application, we have already given an option for members to fix time slots. Meanwhile, some facilities like showers and steam will be closed for the time being. Every member has to wear the face masks, gloves, and needs to be covered fully and not wear shorts,” Ranjan Ghosh, senior regional manager of Golds gym, who also operates a branch in Sector 30. “ Plastic sheets are being installed between treadmills as it would be difficult to run with masks but we are also insuring to improve the ventilation of the gyms, “ he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/fixed-slots-improved-ventilation-sanitising-machines-how-noida-gyms-are-gearing-up-for-business-again/story-IYno4qU6VZlg4s9LdqLhLN.html
31-07-2020||Noida||Two killed after portion of roof collapses in Noida||Two persons were killed while three others were severely injured after a portion of a roof in a building collapsed, in Noida’s sector-11, on Friday evening. The incident occurred around 7pm in F block at a three-storeyed building. The men were working on the ground floor when the incident happened. “According to the owner of the building, solar electric panels were being manufactured there. There was some renovation happening too. A portion of the ceiling on the ground floor collapsed and trapped the four victims,” said deputy commissioner of police [DCP] (zone 1) Sankalp Sharma. Police, fire brigade and other rescue teams rushed to the spot. “UP rescue and local police teams rescued the four from the rubble and they were rushed to the district hospital for treatment. Two of them were conscious, while the two others were unconscious,” said Sharma. Police identified the victims by their first names as contractor Jaynendra (40) from Kanpur, and plumbers Gopi (22) from Kanpur, Rahul from Baghpat and Sagar from Loni. The identity of the fifth person is unknown.Jaynendra and Gopi died during treatment, said joint commissioner of police Sriparna Gongoulee, while the other two were still undergoing treatment. “According to the owner, only these four were in the building at the time of the incident,” she said. Police said that they will verify if anyone else was also trapped in the rubble. Taking cognizance of the incident, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath directed the Noida police commissioner to provide immediate relief and medical treatment to the injured.At the time of filing this report, police said they had not received any complaint in the matter. “If the building is illegal, then a case will be registered,” an official said.The commissioner of police, Alok Singh, said that the cause of the collapse is being looked into by the Noida Authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/two-killed-after-portion-of-roof-collapses-in-noida/story-BJfsAkMi0zN2srYZrRQYvJ.html
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||Pradeep Sharma takes over as president of Vishwa Hindu Parishad, Chandigarh||Pradeep Sharma was declared the new president of Vishwa Hindu Parishad(VHP), Chandigarh during a meeting of the organisation held in Shiv Manas Mandir, Industrial Area, Phase 2, in the presence of Punjab prant mantri Vijay Pal Davinder Sidhu was appointed the seh-mantri and Renu Rohilla , the sanyojika, matra-shakti.In his address, Sharma called upon all citizens of the city to decorate their houses, localities, markets, temples, and ashrams on August 5 to mark the occasion of the beginning of construction work of Ram Mandir at Ayodhya. He also urged them to perform yagya and distribute prashad in the evening after sunset.He said that everyone should do all these activities while following the Covid-19 guidelines issued by the Government of India and Chandigarh administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pradeep-sharma-takes-over-as-president-of-vishwa-hindu-parishad-chandigarh/story-C3A2xAphVgRywLUcCLAKdM.html
31-07-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Man pushes neighbour’s minor children off fourth floor, arrested||Ghaziabad: The Ghaziabad police on Friday arrested a 23-year-old man who allegedly pushed his neighbour’s two minor children from the fourth floor of his residence in Ghaziabad’s Raj Nagar. The police said the suspect was arrested on the basis of statements of one of the children.An FIR was lodged under IPC Section 307 (attempt to murder) against Harendra Kumar, who stays in a rented apartment over the third floor of the building where the incident took place. The family of children stays on the fourth floor.The incident took place around 11am on Friday, in Guldhar, near Sector 23. “The two boys had gone to the terrace of the building and were flying a kite when they fell, under mysterious circumstances, on to the roof of an adjacent house and were injured. The boundary wall was quite high and the children could not have toppled over by themselves while playing. So, when they were asked, one of them revealed that they were pushed by their neighbour,” said Mohammad Aslam, station house officer of Kavi Nagar police station. “After the suspect was arrested, he allegedly narrated to us that an uncle of the two minors had fled with his wife a couple of months ago, and since then he had been annoyed with the family. His wife returned but she is living with her parents for the past 20 to 25 days. When the suspect found the two children alone on the terrace, he pushed them in order to seek revenge,” SHO added.The two children, aged eight and nine years, are recuperating in a private hospital near the Delhi-Meerut road and are stated to be out of danger.“We spoke to the doctors who told us that CT scan reports of the two did not indicate any critical injuries, but they will remain under observation for 24 hours and are under treatment. The children fell about 15 to 20 feet off the terrace, on to the adjacent house. There, we found a broken cable wire. So it is assumed that both fell on the cable wire first and did not hit the roof directly, which broke their fall. This is why they did not suffer any major critical injury,” said Avnish Kumar, circle officer (city 2). The father of the two, who works as a driver, said he and his wife were away at work when the children went to the terrace. “My wife and I were not at home. When we heard of the incident from neighbours who called us, we rushed back. The children told us that the suspect came up to the terrace and pushed them. After I submitted a police complaint, the suspect was arrested,” he added.The family has been living on rent for the past six years in the building. He stays with his wife and five children, including the two boys in question.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-man-pushes-neighbour-s-minor-children-off-fourth-floor-arrested/story-yvuPeOmUlagzmOF8450DBO.html
31-07-2020||City||Ghaziabad finally begins uploading Covid death details online||More than three months after the Uttar Pradesh government had announced it will conduct audits of patients who have succumbed to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the Ghaziabad health department has finally started uploading the case details of Covid-19 related deaths on the state Covid portal.On April 15, the state government had announced that it will undertake death audits to ascertain the exact cause of deaths attributed to Covid-19.“We have started uploading the case details of each death on the state portal. Once the complete case details are uploaded, a committee will screen the documents and ascertain the exact cause of death. As per our assessment, the majority of people who succumbed to the infection had co-morbid conditions,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.Chief medical officer, Dr NK Gupta, did not comment over the reason behind the delay in uploading the case details but said that the health department is now expediting the process. “There has been a delay in uploading the case details of the deaths, but now we are expediting the process,” he added.In Ghaziabad, till July 31, 64 deaths have been reported out of 4,937 total cases in the district. The case-fatality ratio hence stands at 1.29% which is slightly lower than the state’s fatality ratio of 1.90% ( 1,630 deaths out of 85, 461 Covid-19 cases). The first Covid-related death in the district was reported on April 30 when a 62-year-old woman had died at a private hospital. Officials had attributed the death of the Covid-19 positive woman to a heart attack. While four Covid-19 related deaths were reported till May 31, as many as 51 deaths were recorded in June alone. Nine deaths have been reported in the month of July.“Our prime focus is to reduce the number of fatalities and trace contacts of positive patients for early detection of infected persons that can be sent for treatment to appropriate Covid hospitals. We have already put in mechanisms for early detection of cases, early testing, and speedy referral. As a result, a lower number of deaths have been reported in July,” the DM said.Officials of the district health department said after the audit is over, four or five deaths will be excluded from the district’s death toll.“These are cases where the subsequent Covid-19 test reports of the patients declaring them negative for the virus were received after their deaths. Of the total 64 deaths, 16 deaths (six women and 10 men) were related to patients who suffered from influenza-like illnesses (ILI) and SARI symptoms. Overall, 24 women patients and 40 men have died so far. At 30 deaths, most fatalities were in the age group of 41-60 years,” said a senior official from the district health department who did not wish to be identified.“At least 10 private hospitals are providing paid Covid treatment in the hospital. These hospitals have a total of 598 beds, and 120 of these beds have been reserved for patients, being treated in government-run hospitals, who might need to be looked after at an advanced facility. Of these 120 reserved beds, 20 are ICU beds, and in cases when a patient in government facility needs critical care, we can immediately refer them to these hospitals with reserved ICU beds, and the treatment will be free of cost,” the official quoted above said.The officials said that apart from the reserved ICU beds in private hospitals, they also have 33 ICU beds in government’s L2 (for patients with mild symptoms) and L3 (critical patients) facilities.“For early detection of cases, we have opened testing facilities in Indirapuram, Vaishali, MMG Hospital, and Women Hospital. Apart from these, we have also come up with static testing booths at four of our community health centers in Loni, Muradnagar, Modinagar, and Dasna besides one testing facility at our primary health center in Bhojpur. We have also roped in three mobile testing vans which will visit different localities. Apart from these, we have 10 private hospitals who have been supplied with rapid antigen kits for quick testing,” he addedAccording to the records of the health department, till July 31, about 101,262 samples have been tested in the district of which reports of 100,904 have been received so far. Around 58,552 tests were conducted with the rapid antigen kits which are being used in the district since June 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-finally-begins-uploading-covid-death-details-online/story-gxAifsmo0MgrVPJV0154RM.html
31-07-2020||Mumbai||‘International fliers can undergo Covid test 15 days before departure date’||The national Federation of Associations in Indian Tourism and Hospitality (FAITH) has written to civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri suggesting ways to ease travel restrictions for inbound international passengers as a way to save the tourism industry.In its letter sent on Tuesday, the federation, which represents 10 travel, tourism and hospitality organisations, stated that international passengers should undergo Covid-19 test 15 days prior to their departure date. It also suggested that passengers with no symptoms be allowed to continue their journey while those found with symptoms during screening by airport authorities be sent to 14-day quarantine. The letter was also sent to Union health and home ministries.Currently, all international passengers have to mandatorily undergo institutional quarantine for seven days and home quarantine in the following week.The government on Thursday decided to extend the suspension on the scheduled international commercial passenger services to and from India up to 11.59pm on August 31. However, the restriction will not apply to international all-cargo operations and flights specifically approved by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA). The letter read, “All passengers arriving in India do not want to be quarantined. You can make it mandatory that they take a Covid test in their respective countries 15 days before their departure to India and that they show the report while boarding and landing. On arrival, we should test every passenger and only those who are found positive should be quarantined and rest of the passengers should be allowed to go to their respective hotels or homes. All airports in India should follow the same procedure for both domestic and international passengers.”The federation also suggested that the cost of Covid-19 test on arrival should be included in the air tickets. Subhash Goyal, secretary of FAITH, said, “Travel industry will never be able to recover until the current mandatory quarantine rules are worked upon.” The federation’s suggestion assumes importance in light of the findings of a survey by the International Air Transport Association (IATA), a trade association of the world’s airlines since 1945, conducted in mid-March and early June. The study revealed that as many as 83% of the 4,700 respondents from 11 countries, including India and the US, said they wouldn’t travel by air if it involves a mandatory 14-day quarantine period.A former DGCA official said, “Decisions on mandatory quarantine period is decided by the health ministry which is being followed by the all other relevant ministries. Hence, aviation ministry has no role in deciding quarantine period.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/international-fliers-can-undergo-covid-test-15-days-before-departure-date/story-3cJPu4XBI7GmOHxdUI0J8O.html
31-07-2020||City||Delhi minister, DCW chief inspect old-age home, order probe into its functioning||New Delhi: A surprise inspection at a private old-age home in outer Delhi on Friday night by Delhi women and child development (WCD) minister Rajendra Pal Gautum and Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) chief Swati Maliwal revealed that around 20 senior citizens, most of whom suffer from mental illnesses, have been housed in “unhygienic and pitiful” conditions. The DCW in a statement said the minister has ordered a probe into the functioning of the home. “The senior citizens have also alleged they are being held captive and beaten up often,” the statement read. A DCW member said the elderly have been housed in a cramped space, and men and women are forced to share beds. The room has around 10 beds. “The washrooms are filthy. The elderly citizens are frail and weak suffering multiple ailments. However, no records of their medical history have been kept by the owner of the old age home,” the member said, asking not to be named. The cramped spaces leave little room for social distancing, an essential to curb the spread of Covid-19.The home also doesn’t have any open spaces to sit or move around for its occupants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-minister-dcw-chief-inspect-old-age-home-order-probe-into-its-functioning/story-SJD9b50ds90s4PXJw9OkaL.html
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||HC restrains Haryana Police from penalising pvt lab||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has restrained Haryana Police from penalising a Gurugram private laboratory for allegedly misreporting Covid-19 results.The Gurugram police had lodged an FIR against SRL Diagnostics on July 9 for the alleged incident reported in April under Disaster Management Act, 2005.The laboratory found three persons of a family as Covid-19 positive, but a re-test at a government lab showed them negative in 24 hours. SRL Diagnostics had stood by its results.Their counsel, R S Rai, told the court that if at all, an error has crept in, though not admitted, it would be unreasonable on the part of the authorities to allege mala fide intent. It was argued that the FIR has been registered in haste and without any application of mind. The alleged misreporting was based upon the result of PGI, Rohtak testing, which had conducted the same at a different point of time and by using different kits, they argued. The high court bench of Justice Manjari Nehru Kaul, while seeking response from Haryana by August 25, ordered that though probe would continue, challan would not be filed till next date of hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-restrains-haryana-police-from-penalising-pvt-lab/story-gIxKVn4rT2l3IvvZe1QFTP.html
31-07-2020||Gurugram||2 Delhi-based pharmacists questioned for illegal supply of Covid-19 drugs||The police on Friday questioned two pharmacists from Delhi for several hours regarding their alleged involvement in supplying Covid-19 and cancer treatment drugs to other pharmacists and four Iraqi nationals, who were arrested for allegedly smuggling such drugs to their country. On Tuesday, the police had arrested four Iraqi nationals in two separate raids from Sector 47 and Sector 57 after the drug control department had received a tip-off. Forty eight vials of remdesivir, 55 strips of favipiravir and 18 packs of Lopikast — the three drugs which are used in Covid-19 treatment — were recovered along with a large cache of antibiotics, antacids, antiallergic drugs and cancer treatment medicines in the raids. One SUV and ₹74.55 lakh cash were also seized. Senior police officials privy to the investigation said that the names of the pharmacists who were questioned on Friday had cropped up in the investigation after the arrest of another pharmacist named Pradeep from Jharsa, Sector 38, on Wednesday, who revealed that he had procured remdesivir from a supplier in Delhi.Chander Mohan, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), east, said, “The pharmacists from Delhi were questioned about the alleged nexus and how they were able to source drugs used to treat Covid-19, since these are directly sold by manufacturing companies to hospitals. We are also carrying out raids at several places in Delhi-NCR to identify more suspects.” Police said Pardeep, who had allegedly hidden 84 vials of remdesivir in a room next to a tube well in his village in Pataudi, told them that he had been in touch with the Iraqi nationals or one year. A police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “Pardeep was earlier supplying medicines to Iraqi nationals, who worked with private hospitals as interpreters and were acquainted with medical tourism patients. After the pandemic broke out, he decided to source drugs used to treat Covid-19 and sell them for a mark up. The first consignment of remdesivir injections that he had procured from Delhi was sold to the Iraqi nationals.” On Thursday, the police had said that the names of several pharmacists had come up during questioning and the role of some hospitals had come under scanner. The police probe has found that the suspects had been smuggling medicines to Iraq for at least two years and, since the pandemic, they had started dealing in drugs used to treat Covid-19 patients. These drugs, which are in short supply, are sold at exorbitant prices in Iraq.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/2-delhi-based-pharmacists-questioned-for-illegal-supply-of-covid-19-drugs/story-eZ28RSsvmSZqnwR2RDSL0M.html
31-07-2020||Gurugram||MCG recovers one-acre prime land||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) on Friday demolished a boundary wall of a business park in Sector 26 to recover a one-acre plot that was encroached upon.The plot is adjacent to the Mehrauli-Gurgaon (MG) Road and opposite Guru Dronacharya Metro station.MCG joint commissioner Hariom Attri said that the developer had been issued multiple notices since 2017 to desist from encroaching on the civic body’s land.“The owners of Global Business Park had illegally occupied our land by constructing a boundary wall and was using the vacant space for parking vehicles. A notice was first served in 2017, and since then three other notices were also issued to them, including a demolition order, but no action was eventually taken,” said Attri. He said that recently the matter was also brought up before the Lokayukta who then directed MCG to re-initiate action on the matter. “We had given the owners the last opportunity and served them a final notice. Even then they did not remove the encroachment. Hence, we demolished the boundary walls today and recovered our land,” Attri said. Despite repeated attempts, the developer of the business park could not be contacted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-recovers-one-acre-prime-land/story-SBXhnrJh3L3aF79DHE33FJ.html
31-07-2020||Gurugram||For fifth consecutive day, Gurugram sees less than 100 new cases of Covid-19||Gurugram on Friday reported 78 new cases of Covid-19, marking the fifth consecutive day of fewer than 100 new cases.In the last week, for the first time since the outbreak began, the city’s daily growth rate was less than 1%. The doubling rate now is 68 days, as against XX
31-07-2020||City||Villagers protest ‘forcible’ acquisition of land at Sekhowal||Residents of Sekhowal village on Friday staged a protest against the state government and district administration, alleging administrative high-handedness. The protesters claimed that the administration and police forcibly took the sarpanch, Amrik Kaur, and a few others to the sub-tehsil office, Koom Kalan, on Thursday evening, and forced them to give consent for acquisition of 407 acres.They alleged the sarpanch’s signatures were forcibly taken for acquisition of the panchayat land, where the state government has proposed to establish an industrial park. The villagers claimed they will not let go of the land as it was the source of income of around 70 families of the village, adding that they will protest till the government rolls back the decision to acquire the panchayat land.The state government has proposed to establish the industrial park on 1,000 acres in Haidar Nagar, Sekhowal, Salempur, Sailkiana and Machian Kalan villages.“I, along with former sarpanch Dhir Singh and panchayat member Khjaan Singh, were taken to the sub-tehsil office on Thursday evening after office hours. When the authorities started forcing us, we raised a protest. We will not let the government acquire the panchayat land. The gram sabha of the village already approved a resolution regarding this on July 21,” said sarpanch Amrik Kaur.Former sarpanch Dhir Singh said, “Now, we are left with no option but to move court, as the government is not paying heed to our concerns.” On his part, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), Ludhiana East, Baljinder Singh Dhillon said, “No one was forced for anything. The sarpanch was asked to visit the office so that she could be apprised of the project. The industrial park is beneficial for the village and its residents and we are working to make them aware about this.” Supporting the villagers’ cause, AAP leader Pardeep Singh Khalsa said the party will stand by the villagers and oppose acquisition of the land, as it will also cause damage to the adjacent Mattewara forest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/villagers-protest-forcible-acquisition-of-land-at-sekhowal/story-HQrdobGblNfoSUyEVWeACJ.html
31-07-2020||Gurugram||HSVP prepares a list of 294 oustees, one more in the works||The Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) is preparing lists of oustees and residential plots under its possession to ensure the early allotment of plots to applicants under the oustee quota. The exercise will also enable the authority to seek permission from the Punjab and Haryana High Court, which has barred it from auctioning plots unless the process of allotment to the oustees is completed. A oustee is a person whose land has been acquired for the construction of roads or other infrastructure projects. As per the HSVP policy, the oustee is entitled to a plot in lieu of the one that has been acquired from him by the authority. In 2018, a land owner, whose land was acquired by the HSVP, filed a petition in the Punjab and Haryana High Court, complaining that the authority was selling away its plot but not allotting the same to the oustees. Following the petition, the court directed the authority to first complete the process of allotting plots to the oustees before auctioning the remaining ones. HSVP officials said that they have already identified 294 oustees in estate office -1 while a similar exercise is being carried out in estate office- 2, which will ensure that claims of oustees are settled before plots can be auctioned. Bharat Bhushan Gogia, estate officer-I, said that information pertaining to the oustees and their claims have been compiled on a sector-wise basis and these would be sent to the headquarters in Chandigarh. “These reports once approved will be submitted in the court, which is hearing currently the matter,” he said. As per details shared by Gogia, 294 applicants have applied for plots under the oustee quota in sectors 4,5,6,7, 7 extension, 9, 9A, 10, 10A, 12A, 14, 15 parts 1 and 2, 17, 21, 23, 23A. Officials said that HSVP was planning to auction the residential plots under its possession in the coming months and this was the reason that they wanted to settle the claims of the oustees at the earliest. As reported by HT earlier, the authority has been facing an acute cash crunch and pressure of repaying loans for a while, and, as such, has decided to sell some of its commercial and residential plots to generate revenue. The authority is facing a loan burden of ₹20,000 crore, which were taken to pay off the landowners as enhancement charges. The authority has recently conducted an auction and managed to garner ₹14 crore by selling five commercial sites across various sectors in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/hsvp-prepares-a-list-of-294-oustees-one-more-in-the-works/story-SddD2zWB0Fsu2oyTIq78gP.html
31-07-2020||City||MCG puts on hold its plan to set up isolation centre||Gurugram The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has halted its plans for setting up a 100-bed isolation centre in Sector 27, officials said on Friday.The move comes after divisional commissioner Ashok Sangwan said that the number of Covid-19 cases in Gurugram has “stabilized” and hence, there is no need for starting any new facility.As per the MCG officials privy to the matter, Sangwan had also told senior officials of the civic body that currently there is little scope for using the isolation centre and there is no point spending government funds unnecessarily. In the last week of June, MCG had finalised a community centre in Sector 27 as a potential site for establishing an isolation centre where Covid-19 patients, who need oxygen support, could be given treatment free of cost. For the project, the civic body that had received 50 beds from a private company under corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds was looking at tying up with doctors. Overall, the facility was to have more than 100 beds and would have cost MCG around Rs 30 lakh. MCG was aiming at starting the facility from mid-August. Depending on the success of its pilot project, the civic body had decided to replicate this model in other parts of the city.“Adhering to the divisional commissioner’s direction, we have halted the isolation centre project for the interim. Since there is low occupancy in Covid-19 hospitals, it was felt that the facility would have little purpose presently. However, we have kept 50 beds in the facility so that it can be quickly converted into a full-fledged isolation centre whenever required,” said Hariom Attri, joint commissioner, MCG. During a visit to the facility early this week, Sangwan had said, “On most days, the city is registering less than 100 new cases. The number of overall cases is also coming down. There is also low occupancy of Covid-19 beds in hospitals, so there is little requirement of any new facility at the moment.” He further said that the facility would serve as a good standby whenever there is a requirement. “We have a plan for 400-500 beds to be kept as backup and this facility would be a part of them,” said Sangwan.As per official figures, only 22% of the city’s Covid-19 beds -- 335 out of total 1,486 -- were occupied till July 23.An MCG official said that another reason for putting the project on halt was that Haryana government is facing a shortage of funds. “The Haryana government is currently under a monetary crisis, and so austerity measures are adopted. Besides spending Rs 30 lakh in infrastructure and medical equipment, MCG would also have to bear expenses for day-to-day operations and consulting fees of doctors. So, the project has been put on hold indefinitely,” said the MCG official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mcg-puts-on-hold-its-plan-to-set-up-isolation-centre/story-ePVwmirgHVMURvdQINv1rL.html
31-07-2020||Gurugram||HSVP officials asked to expedite resolution of CM, PM Window complaints||Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) officials have been asked to expedite clearing over 350 complaints filed under the public grievance mechanisms launched under the names of the chief minister (CM) and the Prime Minister (PM).The nodal officer for HSVP administrator, has asked officials though a letter of estate office l ,II, engineering wing, and town and country planning department to resolve these issues at the earliest.According to records, there were 209 complaints under the CM window and 176 complaints under the PM window that were awaiting clearance. While a complaint lodged at the windows, launched in 2014, has to be resolved in a month. Each window is monitored by the respective offices.Earlier, special secretary (grievances and public relations) from the Haryana government had asked the nodal officer to personally monitor and resolve the grievances registered on these portals.Estate office I has 116 CM and PM Window complaints, while estate office II had 176, estate office Rewari 27 complaints, superintending engineer I has 11 complaints, superintending engineer II has eight complaints, land acquisition officer has 20 complaints, two executive engineers offices have one complaint each, senior town planner office has 24 such complaints and district town planner office has one such complaint.Abhishek Goyal, whose mother was allotted a plot in 2000 in Narnaul by HSVP, said that for the last two decades they have been waiting for possession of this plot but have got nothing despite making all the payments. “I filed two CM Window complaints in the last two years but both were closed without any resolution. The authorities must treat these issues on priority or else thid system will lose its purpose,” he said, adding that he has pursued the matter with senior officials.HSVP has appointed a team of officials to resolve these pending complaints, said officials. “I have appointed two persons whose job is to look into these complaints and resolve the matter at the earliest. In other wings of the authority a similar strategy is being implemented and this pendency will be reduced within a month,” said Bharat Bhushan Gogia, estate officer, I. Jitender Yadav, HSVP administrator, Gurugram, who heads the authority said that directions have been given to concerned officials to resolve these complaints at the earliest. “I am monitoring the issue and a review meeting will be held next week to check the status with different wings,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/hsvp-officials-asked-to-expedite-resolution-of-cm-pm-window-complaints/story-IMB4CfC97DRq8TNfQvaH9O.html
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||PU to offer short term courses to international students||Panjab University(PU) is planning to offer short term online courses to international students during the next academic session in an attempt to expand its profile. The committee of the working group office of the dean international students has proposed to offer short term online courses to international students in the same way as many other institutions across the world do.Nandita Singh, Dean International Students, PU, said, “We will ask departments to design short term courses which can be offered to foreign students.”“We will run only a few courses initially and charge nominal fees. This will be an opportunity for our departments to showcase our strength and expand the profile of the varsity,” she said.PU’s office of the dean international students has also asked heads of the departments to send proposals for starting an online course in their departments. The proposal from each department should mention the details about the courses to be offered including fee structure, duration, and number of seats, etc.PU senator Rajat Sandhir said, “I think this is a much-needed initiative. ‘Study in India’ programs are much required as they would increase PU’s visibility as a global player. Programs such as India studies, Indian culture and languages are in demand internationally.”SUMMER SCHOOLS GO ONLINEThe varsity is also planning to offer summer schools online to international students since summer schools can’t be organised physically amid the Covid-19 pandemic.“Since foreign students can’t visit this year, we are planning to offer summer school online as well. We are yet to work on the modalities,” said Nandita Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pu-to-offer-short-term-courses-to-international-students/story-cWtIVuetM9jyv7lhKmEIvL.html
31-07-2020||City||Truck driver transporting meat beaten up by several men in Gurugram; FIR lodged||Gurugram: A driver from Nuh, who was transporting meat in his pickup truck, was assaulted allegedly with rods by a group of men on Friday morning in Gurugram’s Badshahpur area, following which one person was arrested. Police said the victim suffered severe injuries and was rescued by a police team who rushed him to the Civil Hospital. He was later referred to a private hospital in Sector 38 where his condition is said to be stable. The suspects allegedly also damaged a police vehicle before escaping. Police said the reason for the attack was still not clear.In a video of the incident shot by someone from the crowd, which HT has seen, a man can purportedly be seen arguing with the police and then breaking the windshield of the truck as several policemen try to hold back the crowd which had gathered. In another video shared on social media, which HT has seen, the victim can purportedly be seen sitting cross-legged on the ground while a man kicks him in the face, before he is restrained by a police official.In the videos, the suspects can purportedly also be seen trying to pull the victim out of the police vehicle after the cops took him inside to protect him. They can purportedly be seen trying to push the cops even as a group of about 15 policemen try to control the situation.According to the police, the incident took place around 9.30am when the victim, 25-year-old Lukman, was on his way in a pickup truck from Ghasera in Nuh to deliver buffalo meat to a meat shop owner, Tahir, near Jama Masjid in Gurugram. In the FIR registered at Badshahpur police station, Lukman states that he was near a traffic signal in Badshahpur when several men on at least four motorcyclists started following him.“They tried to stop my vehicle but I sped towards Jama Masjid. A few lanes away from the mosque, near the Trunk Market, the men cornered me and assaulted me with rods. They broke the window panes of the truck and forced me into the truck. They took me to Jail road in Badshahpur and assaulted me, before a police team rescued me,” he said in the FIR. Officers said three policemen deputed at a post near Jail Chowk noticed the commotion and confronted the suspects, who manhandled the policemen and broke the window panes of the police vehicle, before fleeing. The victim suffered at least seven injuries. Sandeep Malik, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), Sohna, said, “The victim was rescued and taken in a police vehicle by the policemen deputed at the check post. Since they were outnumbered, additional force was sent and the victim was taken to Civil Hospital. It is not certain if the victim was attacked on suspicion of transporting beef or some other reason. The reason would be known after suspects are arrested.” The arrested suspect has been identified as Pradeep Yadav, 26, a resident of Rajiv Nagar.According to Tahir, the meat shop owner, “Lukman has been supplying meat in the market for a few years. I received a call from him around 9.30am when he informed me that he was being chased. I immediately made several calls to the police but the team arrived an hour late. Lukman was beaten up in the Trunk Market and then he was bundled in his pick-up truck and taken to Badshahpur, where he was again beaten up. This attack has happened a day before Eid and it is an attempt to disturb communal harmony.”The ACP, however, denied the police team reached late. “One of the teams was deployed at a check post nearby and reached within minutes. These allegations are not correct. Our team took the victim to the hospital after rescuing him. No communal link has yet been found yet in the investigation,” said ACP Malik.A team from the City police station also visited the lane near the Trunk Market near Jama Masjid, the police said.The meat from the pick-up truck has been to a laboratory for testing, they added. An FIR was registered against the unidentified suspects under sections 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (unlawful assembly), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 325 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint), 342 (wrongful confinement) and 427 (mischief causing damage) of Indian Penal Code at Badshahpur police station on Friday, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/truck-driver-transporting-meat-beaten-up-by-several-men-in-gurugram-fir-lodged/story-yraklQHt4Sc17vDiItheuM.html
31-07-2020||City||In rush for property tax rebate, Ludhiana residents give social distancing the go-by||Social distancing went for a toss at the municipal corporation’s suvidha kendras on Friday, as residents thronged the offices to avail of 10% rebate on property tax. As per the one-time settlement (OTS) policy floated by the Punjab local bodies department, July 31 was the last day to submit the property tax dues with 10% rebate. The water-sewer user charges could also be paid without any penalty.Now, residents need to pay 10% penalty on dues if payments are made by October 31, following which 20% penalty and 18% interest will be levied.Due to this, huge rush was witnessed at the counters, with residents giving social distancing norms the go-by.“We did not want to jostle for space when Covid-19 cases are rising, but there wasn’t adequate space outside the suvidha kendras, leaving visitors with no option,” said Gurcharan Singh, a visitor at the Zone-A office.“Staff has been deployed at the suvidha kendras to maintain social distancing, but the visitors do not cooperate. Residents are advised to submit the tax online at MC’s official website mcludhiana.gov.in,” said Vivek Verma, superintendent, property tax. “Over 2,600 property tax returns were submitted by residents on Friday. These included online payments. There are still around 75,000 residents, who have not paid property tax since 2013-14,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-rush-for-property-tax-rebate-residents-give-social-distancing-a-go-by/story-3wfN6qSMpQP9TXsYz3NO3I.html
31-07-2020||City||Ludhiana health teams at a loss about source of infection in 277 cases||Battling the Covid-19 pandemic that has been spreading swiftly in Ludhiana, health teams are still struggling to find the source of infection in several cases due to lack of cooperation from patients.Of the 3,028 cases reported as of Thursday, health teams have completed the tracing of 2,886 cases, but have been unable to establish the source of infection in 277 cases. Health officials said this was due to several patients not disclosing their contacts, citing social stigma and other reasons, which increased the risk of the virus spreading further.“Some patients do not even reveal the places they have visited. We encourage patients to provide as much information as possible to help track their contacts, who are at risk of contracting the virus and spreading it further. But sometimes, patients do not cooperate as they don’t want more relatives to be hospitalised,” said the official.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said patients needed to cooperate to help contain the pandemic. “Health department teams are regularly visiting the affected areas, especially micro-containment zones, and motivate residents to share information about their contacts to aid the department’s efforts,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-health-teams-at-a-loss-about-source-of-infection-in-277-cases/story-lXTjOQydagtuQQINPH4c0N.html
31-07-2020||City||Mohali district to adopt online public grievance redressal system: Girish Dayalan||In a bid to curtail the footfall in government offices amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the district administration would be adopting an online public grievance redressal system(PGRS), said Girish Dayalan, deputy commissioner, Mohali. Chairing the core group meeting of officers, the DC said that it was in the best interest of public as well as public servants all avoidable influx of public to government offices be restrained. He said that the directorate of governance reforms (DGR), Punjab has developed a PGRS which is an integrated system for grievance redressal pertaining to all government departments via a single technology interface. So, as far as possible, complaints would be entertained through the PGRS. Sharing details, Harkirat Channe, assistant commissioner (grievances), said that the PGRS is accessible to citizens via four modes – web, mobile, Sewa Kendra, and a call centre. Using the online portal, an aggrieved citizen can conveniently file a grievance and receive an assured response to his complaint, she added. She said earlier every department had its grievance redressal mechanism without a standardised workflow for redressal and no defined timeline for resolution and accountability. In contrast, online PGRS has a clear, standardised workflow for grievance redressal, Channe added. She said that it assigns timelines to each officer in the workflow for resolution of the grievance, enables citizens to submit their feedback, and allows escalation of grievances to higher authorities. Channe added that the PGRS portal will provide a 24x7 platform to the public to communicate with the administration and that people will be able to lodge complaints without visiting different offices amid the pandemic outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-district-to-adopt-online-public-grievance-redressal-system-girish-dayalan/story-YcRGogSjmuYh5ptYWIwGhN.html
31-07-2020||City||Ludhiana man booked for posing as cop, threatening woman in land dispute case||A man was booked for posing as a reader deputed with the additional director general of police (ADGP) and threatening a resident of Barundi village in a land dispute. The complainant, Manjit Kaur, said Maninderjit Singh of Boparai Khurd village, threatened to demolish her house and also ruin the future of her children.Kaur told the police that her family had a land dispute with her brothers-in-law Balbir Singh and Gurdeep Singh. The matter is in court. Maninderjit, who knows Balbir, called her over the phone and threatened her to withdraw the case, while claiming that the ADGP had provided him police force to take action against culprits and he will use it against her.She also alleged that Maninderjit demanded money from her.ASI Jagroop Singh, in-charge at Lohatbaddi police post, said they had booked the accused under Sections 420 (cheating), 170 (personating a public servant) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. During investigation, they found that Maninderjit was not deputed with any police official. Efforts are on to arrest him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-man-booked-for-posing-as-cop-threatening-woman-in-land-dispute-case/story-5BVoWJcAmHmNAfqgGPhBfO.html
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||Parents unwilling to send children to schools till October: Chandigarh education dept||: Most parents are unwilling to send their wards to schools even in September and October as per feedback collected by Chandigarh education department till now regarding reopening of schools.The ministry of human resource development (MHRD) had sought a reply from education secretaries of all states and union territories regarding the likely period between August and October when parents will be most comfortable with reopening of schools. The expectations of parents from schools and other feedback were also asked. Schools have sent feedback forms to parents online through Google forms seeking their response.The department is still in the process of conducting the survey, however, according to district education officer (DEO) Harbir Singh Anand, most parents aren’t willing to send their wards to school even in September and October. “In most responses we have received, parents say they are unwilling to send their children to schools till October if the Covid situation isn’t brought under control. Even parents with children studying in board classes aren’t in favour of reopening schools,” the DEO said. However, Anand added that since results hadn’t been compiled properly, it wasn’t possible to quantify it as of now.Earlier, on July 20, the education department had sent a reply that parents of board classes will be willing to send their children to schools from August 15 onwards. However, the feedback wasn’t collected directly from the parents, but, from principals. As per the guidelines of Unlock 3.0, schools will remain closed in August. Officials of the education department confirmed that if the situation remains the same in the city, it is unlikely that schools will reopen in September as well.The department had set the last date for collecting these responses by Thursday. However, following the Unlock 3.0 announcement, the deadline has been extended. Director of school education (DSE), Rubinderjit Singh Brar, said, that the department will have an additional month now before new orders regarding reopening of schools are issued so the department will seek more responses before sending a final response to the ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/parents-unwilling-to-send-children-to-schools-till-october-chandigarh-education-dept/story-G1mowEx3iev367N8bdpGTJ.html
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||46-year-old woman becomes 15th Covid fatality in Chandigarh||A 46-year-old woman tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday, two days after she was brought dead to Government Multi Specialty Hospital in Sector 16, Chandigarh.This took the number of fatalities due to the disease in the city to 15, a day after the total number of cases crossed the 1000 mark. As many as nine people have died in July alone. Meanwhile, 35 more cases were added to the UT’s tally on Friday, taking the number of infections to 1,051, of which 369 are active. The number of people cured has climbed to 667 as 20 more patients were discharged.According to the UT health department’s Covid-19 bulletin the deceased woman had a “past history of complaints of acute abdominal pain radiating towards the back. She had no history of fever, cough or any co-morbid conditions”. Her three family contacts and four community contacts have been sampled. Their results are awaited. Bank employee tests positive The new cases have been reported from Sectors 23, 26, 29, 32, 34, 35, 38, 39, 40, 43, 47, 48 and 49 besides Manimajra, Mauli Jagran, Bapu Dham Colony, Dhanas and Kajheri. Among them is a 24-year-old staffer of a private bank in Sector 37. Her eight workplace contacts have been quarantined and tested. A portion of the bank has been closed too. 44 staffers quarantined at PGIMERMeanwhile, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research has quarantined around 44 health workers, including eight doctors, sources said. In the last couple of days, eight PGIMER employees have contracted the infection. The source of infection is some of these cases is suspected to be a Covid-19 patient who died in the Liver ICU.28 fresh cases surface in Mohali districtMohali district on Friday recorded 28 fresh cases of Covid-19, taking the total to 850.As many as 321 cases remain active. While 515 people have recovered so far, 19 of whom were discharged on Friday, 14 have succumbed to the disease. The fresh cases are spread across the district and include 21 from Dera Bassi subdivision, six from Kharar and one from Mullanpur. Dr Manjit Singh, civil surgeon, Mohali, said: “Most of these patients are contacts of positive patients or have travel history. They are admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. We will be taking samples of their family members.” Village sealed in Panchkula district In the neighbouring Panchkula district, 29 positive cases were reported, taking the total to 561. Of these, 294 are active cases, 265 have been discharged and two have died so far. Civil surgeon Dr Jasjit Kaur, said both Sector 8 and Shahpur village reported six fresh cases. “Five cases are from Sector 21 and the rest are scattered across other parts of the district,” she said. These areas include Sectors 2, 4, 12, 19 and 20 besides Kalka and Pinjore. Meanwhile, after 20 cases surfaced in Kalka’s Marranwala village in the past four days, the Panchkula administration has sealed it and restricted movement to and from the village to check the spread of infection. “Marranwala was closed for extensive sampling to curtail the community spread,” said Kalka subdivisional magistrate Rakesh Sandhu. The village has about 750 houses and is already declared a buffer zone as it contains four containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/46-yr-old-woman-becomes-15th-covid-fatality-in-chandigarh/story-jibCrvxMPUfj5uXZTTf2QM.html
31-07-2020||City||Govt tells hospitals to use N-95 masks only during aerosol procedures||New Delhi: The Delhi government has asked its hospitals and the private ones to rationalise the use of N-95 masks in non-Covid areas, with only those performing aerosol generating procedures using it. All others have been asked to use triple layer medical masks “which has almost equal efficacy of protection from droplet particulate matter,” reads a letter from Dr ZSK Marak, the additional director, public health–IV. Referencing the union health ministry guidelines on rational use of personal protective gear, the letter said, “N-95 masks need to be used only during aerosol generating procedures viz. non-invasive ventilation, tracheostomy, intubation, suction etc. All other categories of personnel, not involved in the above procedures, only need to use triple layer medical masks.” It also said that the N-95 masks are “scarce commodity and also much more costlier as compared to triple layer medical mask”. The letter also states that the face shields may be used by frontline staff in certain areas as mentioned in guidelines of the ministry of home affairs. The resident doctors, however, say that this is not enough. “Ideally, everyone in the screening areas should wear N-95 masks because they are directly interacting with people suspected to have the infection. Also, when it comes to the OPDs and general wards, the patient might come to the hospital for other ailments but there is community transmission and anyone can be an asymptomatic carrier,” said Dr Kuch Sharma, member of the Covid resident task force at Lok Nayak hospital and a resident from the department of anaesthesia that treats the most critical Covid-19 patients. Dr Srinivas Rajkumar T, a resident doctor from All India Institute of Medical Sciences who has been raising concerns about the quality of mask at the institute, said, “Even the N-95 mask is not protective against aerosolised viral particles because the pore size is bigger than the size of the viral particle. It works well against larger droplets with the virus. When it comes to the triple layer mask, it filtration efficiency is about 65% against the large droplets and it has air leaks. So, inside a hospital setting it should absolutely not be used. All healthcare workers should get at least an N-95 mask to protect against the infection.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/govt-tells-hospitals-to-use-n-95-masks-only-during-aerosol-procedures/story-AmG17N5RtL2Jfv1K2JBeDN.html
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||Guest column: Once Chandigarh MC had fixed deposits of ₹500 crore, writes Pawan Kumar Bansal||The Seventy-fourth Amendment added significant provisions to the Constitution of India for enabling municipalities to function as vibrant tools of local self-government by transfer of funds, functions and functionaries to them. The State Finance Commission, inter-alia, reviews the financial position of the municipalities and makes recommendations to the governor for distribution, between the states and the municipalities, of the net proceeds of taxes, duties, tolls and fees leviable by the state, assignment of these to the municipalities and for provision of grants-in-aid from the Consolidated Fund of the State.On the basis of recommendation the fourth Delhi Finance Commission, which also functions as such for UT Chandigarh, Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) had hoped for a grant of Rs 1,073 crore in the current year but was allocated a meagre Rs 425 crore. This has been further slashed by 20% last month, bringing down the allocation to Rs 340 crore. As a result, the MC, today, is unable even to undertake basic functions assigned to it under the Twelfth Schedule. There was a time when the Chandigarh MC had a fixed deposit of over Rs 500 cr; in the last six years it has completely dried up.Today, roads are in a state of utter disrepair with wide potholes seen all around. Expenditure on much-flaunted cycle tracks and walkways have gone down the drain with glaring missing links and perfusive tufts of grass and weeds taking over. Only a few sector parks with RWAs have a semblance of maintenance. The city has gone without bus queue shelters, which had been demolished because of some anonymous whimsical brainwave. Segregation, collection and disposal of garbage have failed to take off and the dumping ground at Dadumajra continues to rise higher and higher with the much acclaimed legacy mining only seeing its inauguration. Meanwhile the residents see no respite from the stench and health hazards.Primary schools and health facilities transferred to the MC are a shambles. Its contractual employees have to do without salaries for months. In this situation, the UT administration is only content with issuing directions to the corporation, to raise commensurate funds for its activities and the latter has set up a committee to suggest means to augment its resources. Any such exercise only ends up suggesting levy of additional taxes and fees.Residents already pay a one-time heavy road tax which entirely goes to the UT administration and the Consolidated Fund of India. The MC recently jacked up the house-tax besides levying sewerage cess at the rate of 30% of the water bill. Other recent levies include a cess of nine paise per unit of electricity consumed and imposition of cow cess and liquor cess.Any further levy, by whatever name called, will increase financial burden on the citizens with no commensurate services offered to them. Any such adventurism is, therefore, better avoided. Payment of its dues as per the recommendation of the fourth Delhi Finance Commission, will provide MC adequate funds for performing its mandated functions.It is time for the MC to monetise some of the land that vests with it. The land in Shivalik Enclave (originally falling in the revenue estate of Mauli Jagran) up to the Haryana border can be profitably used in the first instance for building a housing-cum-commercial complex. Besides generating substantial funds, it will beautify the area, which today presents an unseemly sight. Sufficient land is available at different locations for building at least three spacious modern marriage halls with adequate parking. Besides the land price, it will also rake in additional regular revenue.Shops built in Mauli Jagran, AC Fish Market in Sector 43 and those under the second bridge in Sector-17 have remained unallotted all these years. Repeated failure of auctions highlights the urgency of bringing down their reserve prices. An idea mooted at the ‘resources committee’ to permit eateries to temporarily use spaces outside in front for lunch and dinner facilities and charge them appropriately for the same deserves a go-ahead signal. It will generate revenue and also add vive to the otherwise drab market scenes. Leasing out spaces for putting up advertisements and also permitting neon signs on shops can be another source of good revenue. An earlier scheme of handing over of greening and upkeep of road berms and roundabouts to private parties (under CSR) with the permission to display their names now seems to have been forgotten.It is imperative that the UT administration or the MC do not resort to the easy way out of taxing the people further on specious grounds but to undertake an effective exercise to cut all wasteful expenditure like that on shoddy laying of the ubiquitous paver blocks and realise full potential of the existing assets to build a substantial corpus of funds to draw upon for the Corporation’s effective discharge of its functions.pkbchd@gmail.com(The writer is former Union minister and Lok Sabha MP from Chandigarh).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/guest-column-once-chandigarh-mc-had-fixed-deposits-of-500-crore-writes-pawan-kumar-bansal/story-Ou3W0ayA6X0BcYnQ7uyGqM.html
31-07-2020||City||Inquiry marked as woman’s body found partially mutilated at private hospital’s morgue in Mohali||An inquiry was marked after a 52-year-old Panchkula woman’s body kept in the mortuary of a private hospital in Mohali’s Dera Bassi town was found partially mutilated on Friday.A high drama was witnessed at Indus International Hospital on the Chandigarh-Ambala national highway as the family alleged the hospital had illegally removed the woman’s organs. The hospital, however, claimed the body had been mutilated by rats. Jasjot Kaur, 52, wife of Colonel Amarjit Singh Chandok (retired) of Panchkula, was a heart patient and was admitted to the hospital on Wednesday. She died on Thursday and her body was moved to the mortuary. When the family arrived to collect the body for funeral on Friday, they found blood dripping from the sheet in which it was wrapped. Colonel Chandok said on enquiring about it from the hospital management, he got “no satisfactory answer”. Suspecting that his wife’s organs had been removed illegally, he informed police.Dera Bassi tehsildar Navpreet Singh Shergill rushed to the spot along with the local police and moved Kaur’s body to the mortuary of the Dera Bassi civil hospital. Hospital director Surinderpal Singh Bedi said: “The woman’s cheek was bitten off by rats. We have sacked the mortuary caretaker and are trying to find out how it happened. Allegations made by the family are baseless.”The tehsildar said an inquiry has been initiated. “A board of doctors will conduct an autopsy to establish the truth,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/inquiry-marked-as-woman-s-body-found-partially-mutilated-at-private-hospital-s-morgue-in-mohali/story-LwqJoag3hw3HShPIj2oCZP.html
31-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi riots: Court denies bail to men accused of killing man near Farooqia Masjid||A Delhi court has denied bail to four persons accused of murdering a man near Farooqia Masjid during the north-east Delhi riots on February 25, while stating that “it is common knowledge that namaz can be offered even in an open place” even as their counsel contended that the deceased man had not gone to the mosque since it was under construction.Additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav rejected the bail pleas of Ashok Kumar, Ajay alias Monu, Jitender and Shubham, accused of the murder of one Zakir, who was killed in Dayalpur during the riots.Appearing for the accused persons, advocate Rakshpal Singh contended that his clients were falsely implicated in this matter as he is the resident of the same locality. He said that one of the witnesses was “planted” and although one of the accused persons was seen in the CCTV camera footage, he was merely trying to defend himself by an attack from the riotous mob of other community. He also stated that the deceased person had not gone to offer namaz at Farooqia Masjid as contended by his brother, also a witness in the case, as it was under construction and there was no roof on it.He had also said that the statement of his brother is contradictory as there are two different times when the deceased person had gone to the mosque.However, the court said, “As regards the argument of learned counsel for the applicant that deceased could not have gone to Farooqia Masjid to offer namaz because it was under construction, it is common knowledge that the namaz can be offered even in an open place”.It also noted that there was an “apparent time difference of about two hours when the deceased had gone to offer namaz at Farooqia Masjid”.However, it said that it was clearly evident that the witness was not present at the scene of the crime when the murder had taken place and his statement was recorded almost after two months of the incident and as such, “this minor variation at this stage was insignificant”.The judge, while rejecting the bail plea on July 29, said that the offence was very grave. It said that the autopsy report of the deceased showed that he received as many as 22 injuries, out of which seven were so grave in nature that each one was sufficient to cause the death of any person.It said that such finding speaks volumes about the intensity of the dastardly act committed by the riotous mob during the communal riots.It also said that the accused persons were present with the riotous mob at the spot at the time of the incident and thus the riots appeared to have been caused in an organised manner.“It is also common knowledge that communal riots create fear in the mind of the public at large and also affect the persons who suffer the loss of life or property, which cannot be compensated in any way,” the court said in a six-page order.The police contended that the accused persons were arrested for the murder of one Zakir (mentioned only by his first name). He was brutally attacked and stabbed by the riotous mob on February 25.It also said that during the analysis of the CCTV camera footage of a shop in the area, it found that the riotous mob had caught and severely beaten three Muslim boys; and the accused Ashok Kumar was seen carrying scissors tied to a stick while Ajay alias Monu was carrying a sword.The Special Public Prosecutor said that Shubham was seen carrying a stick (palta) and Jitender was seen pelting stones and as such the riotous mob was armed with “deadly weapons”. He further contended that the accused persons were part of the unlawful assembly/riotous mob that had inflicted severe injuries upon Zakir, which ultimately resulted in his death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-riots-court-denies-bail-to-men-accused-of-killing-man-near-farooqia-masjid/story-SCyNZhk91uz4HwN2wPbBRL.html
31-07-2020||City||North-east Delhi riots: HC quizzes officer over circular to investigators||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Friday asked the Delhi Police to produce before it “five communications issued on receipt of any intelligence input” after special commissioner Praveer Ranjan told the court that directing personnel to be “careful” while making arrests in connection with the north-east Delhi riots was a “routine practice”. The court was hearing a plea by the families of two victims of the February riots, challenging the July 8 circular by Ranjan. The plea, filed by advocate Mehmood Pracha on the basis of a news report, had sought quashing of the circular. “According to the news report, the special commissioner had given out a circular that there was a degree of resentment in the Hindu community against the arrest of certain Hindu persons, and directing investigating officers that they should be careful in the future when making arrests, and that arrests of persons should be made only after discussion of the evidence with special public prosecutors who have been appointed to represent the police in these cases,” the plea had said. Justice Suresh Kait, who is hearing the plea, also asked Ranjan to explain the need for issuing such a circular, while terming the communication “mischievous”. Kait said officers already know what is to be done and how the investigation should be carried out and noted that there was no provision in the CrPC for issuing such an order. “People are arrested and due action is taken in accordance with law. Police officers know their job and no instruction is required to them for the investigation,” the court remarked. On Friday, the court queried if the police issued such orders in other cases as well. Replying to this, Ranjan said this was a normal practice to sensitise personnel. He said whenever any complaint or input comes to his knowledge, such a communication is issued, as was done on July 8. He said all riot-related cases had been registered before the July 8 letter, so no prejudice was caused to the members of any community. “An intelligence input was received by the agency and whenever such input is received, we sensitise our officers so that they exercise due care and precaution during the investigation,” he said. Following this, the court directed Ranjan to place before it within two days five such orders or letters, which he or his predecessor has issued, and listed the matter for further hearing on August 7. When advocate Amit Mahajan, representing the Delhi Police, contended that the petition was “highly mischievous”, the judge shot back “this letter (of special CP) is also mischievous. Tell me what was the need to issue this letter?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/north-east-delhi-riots-hc-quizzes-officer-over-circular-to-investigators/story-CjSSmtcHp3uNbn0qEhH3ZP.html
31-07-2020||City||MC demolishes illegal portions of three buildings in Ludhiana||Taking action against illegal constructions, the municipal corporation (MC) on Friday sealed two complexes and demolished illegal portions of three buildings including a booth at Hambran road on Friday. Also, three under-construction illegal colonies at Jassiyan road were razed during the drive conducted in the areas falling under Zone D of the civic body. MC officials said that two complexes have been sealed as the owner of one building failed to submit the change of land use (CLU) charges, while the other building has been constructed by ignoring the parking norms.Further illegal portions of three buildings were razed including an ice cream booth which was constructed on a road portion. Assistant Town Planner (ATP), Zone D, Mohan Singh said, “Notices were issued to the owners asking them to take corrective steps but they failed to do so, following which a drive was conducted against illegal constructions on Friday. Three under construction colonies that were being constructed illegally have also been razed. The drive will continue in the coming days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mc-demolishes-illegal-portions-of-three-buildings-in-ludhiana/story-SjusFMt500ZruxRkCVj7TI.html
31-07-2020||Delhi||North-east Delhi riot accused gets bail||A Delhi court granted bail to a man accused in two cases related to the north-east Delhi riots, while stating that “the complainants have been made to identify the accused persons as per their own convenience by the police and he was not seen in the video footage”. Additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav granted bail to Deepak (single name), arrested in connection with the violence that happened under the Shastri Park police station, on a personal bond of ₹20,000. “Multiple statements of complainants were recorded in the matter from time to time. It was only on June 2 --i.e at the time of arrest of the applicant (Deepak) -- that the complainants were called by the police to the spot and for the first time that they identified him. Whether that identification is enough to connect the accused in the matter is a matter for trial as the complainants have been made to identify the accused persons as per their own convenience by the police,” the judge said in his order on July 29. Deepak was arrested on June 2 for allegedly being a part of unlawful assembly, rioting and arson. Appearing for the accused, his counsel had contended that in both cases, the charge sheet had been filed but his client has not been named as an accused. He also contended that there was a delay in lodging the FIR. On the contrary, the special public prosecutor contended that the call detail records location of the accused has been found to be of the scene of crime. He has been identified by complainant on June 2 --at the time of his arrest -- and he was also identified by constable Amit the same day. The court also said the identification of the accused by beat constable Amit (single name) is also a “weak kind of evidence”. It noted that the other three accused in the case, who have been released on bail, are from the same locality and till date, no complaint against them has been recorded in any police station regarding them threatening witnesses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/north-east-delhi-riot-accused-gets-bail/story-Ig7uv4FGLMkmohfOMn8BNI.html
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||236 girls apply to courses reserved for boys at Ludhiana college||Over 236 girl students have registered online for admission in undergraduate courses reserved for boys at Satish Chander Dhawan Government College.This is despite the college website mentioning clearly that bachelor of arts, bachelor of commerce, bachelor in business administration and bachelor in computer application are offered only to male students. However, BSc medical and non-medical are offered to both male and female students.In BA first semester, 984 have applied, of which 61 are girls. In BCom, 1,056 have applied, of which 99 are girls. Also, 33 and 41 girl students have registered in BBA and BCA, respectively. SCD College also has an evening college offering BA courses where male students working during the morning can complete their graduation. This time, two female students have registered online for this. Dharam Singh Sandhu, principal, said, “We have clearly mentioned the courses reserved for male students on the college website. The girl students who have registered online for these courses can check their application status as it goes automatically to invalid applications.”The last date to register online on the college website is August 8. The college is also answering queries of students through emails for which staff of the computer department has been deputed.So far, 3,896 candidates have applied online for seven undergraduate courses at Satish Chander Dhawan College.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/236-girls-apply-to-courses-reserved-for-boys-at-ludhiana-college/story-s0sc4X9qWni6yCRrE5bl2O.html
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s Sukhna Lake to remain shut on weekends||Alarmed over 600 Covid-19 cases reported in July, the UT administration on Friday finally put in place a slew of fresh restrictions to control overcrowding and congestion in public places, including Sukhna Lake and markets, in Chandigarh.Even as it kept night curfew timings unchanged, the administration banned the entry of visitors to Sukhna Lake on Saturdays and Sundays and decided to bring back odd-even rule for opening shops in crowded markets besides restricting timings for market operations across the city.UT administrator VPS Badnore took the decision after detailed discussions with medical experts, senior officers and public representatives.The administration was facing flak for its inability to ensure social distancing as crowds swelled at Sukhna Lake after lockdown restrictions were lifted, particularly on weekends. The administration had earlier too considered imposing restrictions, such as entry fee and token system, but in the Friday’s war room meeting, it decided to go for weekend closure of the lake.NIGHT CURFEW STAYS, MARKET TIMINGS CURTAILEDUnder the ‘Unlock 3’ guidelines, announced on July 29, the ministry of home affairs removed restrictions on the movement of individuals during night. However, the UT administration has decided that night curfew will continue from 10pm to 5am. Modifying its July 1 decision to allow opening of markets and restaurants from 10am to 9pm, the administration curtailed the timings by an hour. The new timings will be 10am to 8pm. For the eateries, the timings will continue from 10am to 9pm.COMMITTEE TO DECIDE ON ODD-EVENThe administration has constituted a committee under the UT finance secretary to examine crowded markets where the odd-even rule could be reimposed. Under it, odd-numbered shops are opened on odd dates and even ones alternately.In earlier phases of the lockdown, the administration had imposed the formula in all congested markets, including Patel Market in Sector 15, Gandhi Market in Sector 18, Sadar Bazar and Palika Bazar in Sector 19, Shastri Market in Sector 22, Janata Market in Sector 27, Krishna Market in Sector 41 and Rehri Market in Sector 46.Questioning the move, Charanjiv Singh, chairman, Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, said: “It is better to enforce social distancing norms rather than opening shops alternately.” UT adviser Manoj Parida said the odd-even rule will be introduced only in those markets where social distancing norms are flagrantly violated. “The committee will make surprise inspections and decide. Market associations can join hands to avoid this hardship by strictly following norms.”THREE MICRO-CONTAINMENT ZONESUT adviser Manoj Parida said keeping in view spike in cases, three new micro-containment zones are under consideration. Under the new policy, even three to four houses can be declared as containment zones. The affected area committee will identify these zones.Meanwhile, deputy commissioner Mandip Singh Brar said the drive against people found without masks has been intensified. Over 8,000 challans have been issued and nearly ₹45 lakh have been recovered from the violators, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-sukhna-lake-to-remain-shut-on-weekends/story-B9tYlOErip0AMR9y6tLA3J.html
31-07-2020||City||In separate accidents, two cyclists killed in Delhi||New Delhi: Two persons travelling by bicycles were killed in separate accidents in Delhi on Wednesday. One of the victims was a 23-year-old woman riding pillion behind her husband in north Delhi’s Majnu Ka Tilla and the other was a 51-year-old man cycling home in West Delhi.While the Delhi traffic Police are yet to analyse the number of bicyclists killed in road accidents this year or 2019, at least 56 people riding bicycles were killed in accidents in the national capital in 2018, as per data compiled by the ministry of road transport and highways. WOMAN RIDING PILLION ON CYCLEIdentified by her first name, Baby, the 23-year-old woman, lived with her husband in Ghaziabad and worked as a mason. “They would cycle to their workplace. She would sit on the carrier and her husband, Prince Kumar, would ride the bicycle,” a senior police officer said. Late Wednesday afternoon, the couple was returning from Sadar Bazar home when their bicycle was hit by a truck near Majnu Ka Tilla on Outer Ring Road. In his police complaint, Kumar said the truck was being driven rashly, which led to his wife’s death. “My wife and the bicycle got caught in the truck’s front wheel and were dragged for a distance,” Kumar told the police. The truck driver, 51-year-old Sabir, stopped the vehicle and came to check on the victim, but she was declared dead on arrival at the Sushrut Trauma Centre.While Sabir was arrested after being booked for causing death due to negligence and rash driving, Monika Bhardwaj, deputy commissioner of police (north), said an initial probe has revealed that Baby’s stole got entangled with the truck, causing her to come under the vehicle’s wheel. HIT AND RUNThe exact timing of the other mishap remains unclear, but it took place under the Mayapuri Metro station on Wednesday while the 51-year-old man, Harcharan, was riding back home to a slum in Kirti Nagar. The police had received a call from a passerby Hemant Kumar who saw Harcharan, a labour worker, injured on the road while the mangled remains of his bicycle lay nearby. Before Hemant took the injured man to a hospital where he was declared brought dead, he spoke to an eyewitness who had apparently seen the accident take place. “According to the eyewitness who described the accident to Kumar, the offending vehicle was an orange bus plying on route number 73. We don’t know either the eyewitness, or the registration number of the bus, but we are checking the list of all such route number buses that plied on that road around that time,” said Deepak Purohit, DCP (west). Amit Bhatt, a road safety expert and the executive director of World Research Institute, said that while the epidemic offered a chance to revive cycling, such accidents involving cyclists could lead to new cyclists shifting away from this mode of transport. “Those who have to cycle out of necessity rather than by choice will continue to suffer,” said Bhatt, adding that there was an urgent need to have dedicated lanes for cyclists. “Whether these lanes can be arranged or not, it all depends on government’s priorities,” said Bhatt. The traffic police said that they have been writing regularly to civic agencies to construct more rumble strips and reduce speed limits. Taj Hassan, special commissioner, Delhi traffic police, said there are innumerable points of clash between cyclists and other motorists in the city. “There is a constant conflict between them due to lack of space on the roads. But we are doing our best by keeping the overall speed on the roads low by issuing thousands of fines,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-separate-accidents-two-cyclists-killed-in-delhi/story-I5Iz2B1o9GKr04ldpMCIwK.html
31-07-2020||Mumbai||Covid-positive accused crashes bike into constable, escapes||A 22-year-old accused in an attempt to murder case, who had fled from a Covid isolation centre, crashed his motorbike into a 32-year-old constable before escaping from the spot near Ashish Junction in Chembur on Wednesday.The constable from RCF police station was injured and has been admitted to a private hospital in Chembur. The accused, identified as Santosh Tivrekar, had been arrested for attempted murder by RCF police on June 29. However, since he tested positive for Covid-19, he was admitted to an isolation centre at Shivaji Nagar in Govandi. Tivrekar escaped from the quarantine centre on July 13, and the police have been on the look-out for him. “We asked the security guards to keep an eye on him. However, due to safety issues, the guards were asked to stay outside the isolation centre. At midnight on July 13, Tivrekar and one more accused broke the lock of their isolation room and fled,” said an officer from RCF police station.On Wednesday, constable Vishal Bhise, 32, and constable Sandip Bagul, 42 from RCF police station spotted Tivrekar on a bike and attempted to catch him. “Both constables asked him to stop. Instead of applying the brakes, Tivrekar accelerated. The constables chased after him on their motorcycle for more than a kilometre and when they reached near Ashish Junction, Tivrekar crashed his vehicle into theirs and escaped,” said the officer. Bhise lost control and his bike skid. He suffered injuries on his left leg, left ear, left shoulder, and left side of his head. He is undergoing treatment at Zain Hospital. A fresh case under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of Indian Penal Code (IPC), has been registered against Tivrekar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/murder-accused-crashes-bike-into-constable-escapes/story-uVQst8Wn4F297Hy2tvxdYK.html
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||Severed human feet, ATM thefts: Crimes spike after lockdown, but police clueless||More than a month has passed since a pair of severed human feet and a foetus were found in the bushes along a cycle track near the busy Press light point in Sector 17, Chandigarh.Police have still failed to make any headway in this and other cases after the lockdown when the administration began easing restrictions imposed following the Covid-19 outbreak. On June 23, Ajit Kishori, a manager at the State Bank of India’s (SBI) local head office in Bank Square close by was walking on the cycle track after lunch when he spotted a severed foot wrapped in a newspaper. Another one was found soon with a foetus in a polythene bag nearby when police searched the area for clues.Autopsies revealed that the body parts had been severed after death. The foetus, estimated to be eight months old, had injury marks around its head and neck and death had occurred due to haemorrhagic shock (extreme blood loss due to broken blood vessels). Police, however, were not able to ascertain if the foetus was discarded after delivery or forcible abortion. Three-month records of pregnant women were also sought by police from hospitals to identify the deceased.The body parts and the foetus had been sent for DNA profiling, but despite reminders reports had not been received, said deputy superintendent of police (DSP) and UT police spokesperson Charanjit Singh. Robbery/ ATM thefts remain unsolved No headway by the police was also made in the July 27 daylight robbery of ₹3lakh from a Western Union branch owner in Sector 27, even as the accused were caught on camera walking through the corridor with the cash.On the intervening night of June 24 and June 25 an attempt was made to break open an SBI ATM at the Sector 44 market. The miscreants had sprayed paint on a CCTV camera installed inside the ATM booth and had cut the alarm wire. Not just this, on June 18, an unidentified man with his face covered stole ₹7.65 lakh from a Union Bank of India ATM in Kishangarh.Temple theft On June 4, two masked men broke into the Shri Sanatan Dharam Pracheen Shiv Mandir in Sector 8 and decamped with gold and silver jewellery and ₹7,000 in cash. Though CCTV cameras captured the act, no arrests were made. Snatchings yet be checked After a lull during lockdown, the number of snatchings too went up, with 10 incidents reported this month from city including one attempt. Motorcycle borne miscreants are with impunity targeting women out on walks and escaping. Police were also unable to identify a masked man who on July 21 attempted to snatch a bag with ₹10 lakh from two cashiers of Bitta petrol pump opposite Kalagram who had gone to NAC Manimajra to deposit the money. One of the employees had also sustained injuries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/severed-human-feet-atm-thefts-crimes-spike-after-lockdown-but-police-clueless/story-yKGVpyUva232o8MlH2e9bL.html
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||Increase beds for critical Covid patients in Ludhiana dist: MLA Manuke||Raising concern over shortage of beds for level-3 Covid-19 patients in the district, deputy leader of opposition in Vidhan Sabha and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA from Jagraon, Sarvjit Kaur Manuke, submitted a memorandum with civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga on Friday. Alleging that only six out of the 76 beds earmarked for critical patients in the district were available on July 29, Manuke and other AAP leaders demanded that the administration should increase the number of beds for such patients. The AAP leaders said that there are 761 beds in the district (including 450 in government facilities and 311 in private hospitals) of which 685 have been reserved for level 1 and 2 patients.“The situation is serious and worrisome as maximum coronavirus cases and covid-related fatalities are being reported from the district. Under these circumstances, shortage of beds for vulnerable patients is a cause for concern. This scenario has resulted in tragic deaths of patients who were in dire need of care but didn’t receive it on time. On July 24, a 45-year old businessman was in need of critical care but couldn’t avail it as there were no beds available in Dayanand Medical College and hospital. He was later taken to the civil hospital where he succumbed to the disease,” Manuke said.Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “The administration is already working to increase the number of beds in the district. While DMC hospital is increasing its capacity with 150 more beds, the facility is also being arranged at Lord Mahavira Homeopathic College in Haibowal area. We are working to increase the number of beds for level-2 and 3 patients.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/increase-beds-for-critical-covid-patients-in-ludhiana-dist-mla-manuke/story-UuFJRNoyaOcm9Nsw19ilLO.html
31-07-2020||City||Steepest hike of 218 cases takes Ludhiana tally to 3,246||In no let-up in the spread of infection, the district recorded yet another highest spike in Covid-19 cases with 218 people testing positive for the virus on Friday.The district’s tally is now 3,246, the highest in Punjab, followed by Jalandhar and Amritsar. Of the total cases, 1,182 cases remain active.Ludhiana’s death toll also rose to 88 with six more people succumbing to the virus on Friday. The deceased include two men, aged 66 and 65, residents of Sinhgpura Mohalla and Manakwal village, respectively. They died at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH). A 58-year-old man from Kot Mangal Singh succumbed at PGIMER, Chandigarh, while a 24-year-old man from Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar died at Mohandai Oswal Hospital. A 47-year-old man from Basti Jodhewal and a 43-year-old man from Dashmesh Nagar died at the Ludhiana civil hospital.31 DEAD IN A WEEKThe virus has claimed 31 lives in Ludhiana in the past week. The health department had confirmed seven deaths on July 25, while two people died on July 26. The number again rose to five on July 27, followed by six more deaths on July 28 and nine deaths on July 29. Two more people succumbed to the infection on July 31. 14 HEALTH WORKERS POSITIVEAmong the fresh cases on Friday are 14 healthcare workers, four police personnel, six undertrials and two pregnant women.It’s for the ninth time in the past 10 days that the district has reported more than 100 cases in a single day. Earlier on July 22, 104 people had tested positive, followed by 120 cases on July 23, 105 cases on July 24 and 164 cases on July 25, the second-highest spike in infections so far. While 127 new patients were tested positive on July 26, as many as 121 residents were found positive on July 27, 146 persons on July 28, 53 on July 29 and 142 on July 30. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said till date, 62,490 samples had been taken, of which reports of 60,571 samples had been received. “While 56,885 people are negative, reports of 1,919 samples are pending,” he added. He said besides the 3,246 patients from Ludhiana, 440 people from other districts and states were also under treatment here, while 40 had died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/steepest-hike-of-218-cases-takes-ludhiana-tally-to-3-246/story-RL0S3n3BnbgIlvH1DE9xAL.html
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||AG report slams Zirakpur MC for failing to spend 58% funds||In a scathing audit report, the accountant general (AG) Punjab slammed the Zirakpur municipal council for failing to utilise ₹64 crore during 2019-20 and just spending 42% of its earnings as its total receipt was around ₹110 crore.Blocked sewerage pipes, damaged roads and non-functioning streetlights are some of the basic amenities missing in Zirakpur“The Urban Local Body (ULB’s) collection was of ₹96 crore, on account of income (including VAT/GST of ₹17 crore received from the Punjab government), out of which only ₹49 crore (including non-committed development works) were spent on development works. The rest remained unspent,” the AG notedThe report added that in these circumstances, the purpose of ULBs to provide basic amenities to residents had been forfeited, despite taxes being collected from them. The MC had also failed to utilise the taxpayer’s money, deprived the poor of benefits and did not build community toilets, the report read.No EWS flat, plot allottedThough the civic body approved 50 building plans for group housing projects and licenses to colonies in the past two years, not even a single EWS flat/ plot had been allotted to EWS category, the report said. This happened, it added, even as the civic body collected ₹13 crore for approval of building plans.The MC authorities failed to collect ₹6 crore including arrears of past three years for water supply and sewerage charges. It also failed to recover Rs 5 crore as annual and installation charges of 102 mobile towers from 12 mobile companies till March 2019.When contacted, MC executive officer Sandeep Tewari said, “I joined office two months back and these issues are old issues, but I will try to streamline them and make sure proper basic amenities are provided to the residents,” he said.Community toilets not builtThough the Zirakpur civic body received ₹8 lakh for the construction of community toilets/public toilets within the city under the Swachh Bharat Mission (U) in March 2018, no work was done, according to the AG’s audit. The civic body also collected ₹15 crore as compounding/regularisation charges by regularising unauthorised plots/buildings and unauthorised colonies but it had not deposited ₹75.2 lakh (5%) under the social infrastructure fund meant to create better planning, the report added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ag-report-slams-zirakpur-mc-for-failing-to-spend-58-funds/story-SQlZ24namvHNuQ4BWYqmwM.html
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||Two-day workshop on staying health amid Covid pandemic commences at Ludhiana agri varsity||A two-day virtual workshop on “Recommendations for better health during Covid-19”, organised by the All India Coordinated Research Project (AICRP) scientists of College of Community Science, commenced at Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) on Friday. As many as of 17 home scientists and demonstrators from Krishi Vigyan Kendras of Punjab attended the sessions on Day 1 of the workshop. Sandeep Bains, dean, College of Community Science, addressed the inaugural session and appreciated the efforts of the scientists and encouraged them to organise such workshops in future as well.Kiran Bains, head, department of food and nutrition, gave a presentation on the role of diet in boosting immunity amid the pandemic. Neerja Singla, senior scientist, department of food and nutrition, spoke on the importance of vegetables to improve nutritional status of the masses. Renuka Aggarwal, scientist, department of food and nutrition, and Rohini Jain, research associate, demonstrated the preparation of nutritious recipes. Dr Kiranjot Sidhu, principal scientist and head, department of extension education and communication management, spoke on indigenous ways to boost immunity. Dr Prachi Bisht, scientist, department of human development and family studies, delivered a lecture on various strategies to overcome stress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-day-workshop-on-staying-health-amid-covid-pandemic-commences-at-ludhiana-agri-varsity/story-g07CkZXqrYlUGXXlXHS6vM.html
31-07-2020||City||School representatives throng PSEB depot office, violate social distancing norms||Representatives of private associated schools thronged the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) depot office to submit the continuation pro forma with many violating social distancing norms.Friday was the last date to submit the pro forma at the depot office. With two counters set up by the depot officials, a huge rush was witnessed in the open-air gallery as more than 50 representatives stood in a queue without maintaining social distancing. Till 5 pm, 240 continuation pro formas with undertaking has been submitted by schools affiliated with the board. The representatives of associated schools reached the depot at 9 am to submit the pro forma but the depot manager refused to submit the files with the undertaking from the school. The depot officials started submitting the pro formas at 1.30 pm. Thakur Anand Singh, member of the Joint Action front stated that they have received permission from the Punjab and Haryana high court to submit the continuation proforma without giving an undertaking to the board. “I have a copy of the court orders despite that the depot manager asked all the members of associated schools to submit the undertaking,” he said.If any school fails to submit it, they have to pay ₹2,000 late fees from August 1. Board depot manager Tarlochan Singh said, “We have asked the associated school representatives to submit the pro forma with the undertaking as we have received no instructions from the board regarding any orders of the high court.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/school-representatives-throng-pseb-depot-office-violate-social-distancing-norms/story-AuuB2YpEEzdgb9fmXe68RI.html
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Youth Akali Dal protests outside DMCH over ‘denying’ treatment to patient||The district unit of Youth Akali Dal led by president Gurdeep Singh Gosha staged a protest outside Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) on Friday over the death of a Covid-19 patient on July 25 who was referred from there to civil hospital due to shortage of beds. YAD protested against chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and flayed the Mission Fateh of Punjab government. They said the death has exposed the poor condition of health infrastructure.Gosha said that despite the government’s claims of no shortage of beds in hospitals, patients were not getting treatment.The protesters said hospitals are taking donations in the name of charitable hospitals but charging huge amount from patients. They added that the health department should take action against hospital instead of issuing notices. Gosha also targeted member of Parliament Ravneet Singh Bittu and termed his visit to the civil hospital as just a photo opportunity. He said that the MP has no idea of the ground reality in hospitals and they will protest against hospitals if they deny treatment to patient.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-youth-akali-dal-protests-outside-dmch-over-denying-treatment-to-patient/story-kUW4YL1tZFpKmEIGuu6RDI.html
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||Readers’ take: What’s the harm in being driven by creativity?||Distraction on roads not recommendedGood artwork is worth admiration, which is why the vehicles with artwork should not be registered. The human brain is created in such a way that it automatically shifts its attention to something attractive. However, this distraction while driving is not recommended, especially in traffic. The beauty of art is that it has no boundaries. An artist can do wonders with the available resources to spread his or her message. In order to promote artwork in Chandigarh, the UT administration should think of painting the sides of the showrooms with social messages.Pranav SharmaArt should be displayed in public placesCommon sense is behind every act by the legislatures and rules framed thereunder. Going by the spirit behind Section 52 of the Motor Vehicle Act, the learned high court judge did not see any violation in allowing registration of a car with artwork. Public transport, including rail coaches, bear huge advertisements in colour. Senior officers should not blindly support dealing clerks and let them bother the public on flimsy grounds, forcing them to approach courts for grievance redressal, thereby adding to their work overload. Art is the expression or application of creative skill and imagination, especially through a visual medium like painting or sculpture. ‘Omnis ars naturae imitatio est’(all art is imitation of nature) and onus is on one and all to promote it. Art should be displayed at public places/buildings, as has been done at the Chandigarh railway station. Artwork on private and public vehicles should be incentivised to add to the vibrancy of the city. District level art competitions should be organised and winning entries displayed.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaOrganise exhibitions to display artworkln the name of some novel artwork on their flashy cars in peculiar colours, the owners will distract the attention of other drivers of vehicles on roads and cause accidents. Registration of such cars is like allowing distracting billboards at traffic crossings appear again. Such artwork should be promoted only at art exhibitions and not on moving cars. SC Luthra Art galleries, kala kendras right forumsAny vehicle displaying art could pose increased risk of accidents as other drivers on the roads could get distracted. Roads are not meant for showcasing artwork but for smooth and safe movement of vehicles and its occupants. As transport authorities are not permitting hoardings and billboards along highways, roads as these distract drivers, HC’s reference to buses and trucks plying intracity can’t be the basis for its order as they represent a minuscule number of vehicles in comparison to the numbers of cars in the city and on main roads, which pose higher risks. Art galleries, kala kendras and air theatres are the right forums for promotion of arts and artists.Anil Vinayak, Amritsar Administration needs to encourage artistsArt, as Brazilian artist Romero Britto puts it, is too important not to share. Art comes to the rescue when words are rendered useless. A car or perhaps any other vehicle, insofar as it displays artwork within the confines of the provisions of law and which, in fact, does not dilute its base colour as appearing in the registration certificate, warrants registration. Automobile and art make a nonpareil combination which, if given effect to, can contribute to the aesthetic value of roads, in addition to endorsing art and expressiveness. The UT administration ought to foster artists by encouraging skill-development courses at concessional rates. Art competitions and showcasing can further facilitate visually appealing work of people. Walls, on which ‘grey’ has become the colour norm, should be used for art exhibitions that render meaning to the term City Beautiful. After all, art is not what one sees but is what one makes others see! Gagandeep SinghCreative expression should be encouragedArt is something that brings colours to life. Creativity is expressed for various reasons, including evoking a response from others or depicting an idea or belief. Why can’t art and cars go together? After all, a car is a masterpiece of mechanical art showcased by the manufacturers. It’s something we own and is a part of our daily life. So, if someone wishes to modify it with art that should be okay. Loving what we have is after all what gives us happiness and calm. It’s time rules should be modified to allow cars with artwork. With regard to administrative purposes, some modifications must be made in the motor vehicles rules to promote art on vehicles. The artwork by the Mexican artist on the Ambassador car in question is simply amazing. Last but not least, Chandigarh has wonderful architectural artwork, thanks to Le Corbusier, so why not take the legacy forward?Komal Sharma, ChandigarhDon’t distract driversCars with artwork should not be registered because these will distract others driving on the roads, which could lead to accidents. Dr Susheela Hooda, Panchkula If ho-ho buses can have art, why not cars? Chandigarh administration, from its very inception, has two laws in all spheres of life. One law is for itself and the other for common people. If the registration authority can register the administration’s double-decker hop on-hop off tourist bus with art work, then what’s wrong with an Ambassador car? Why can’t the same authority register a personal car with same sort of artwork on it? When Chandigarh was planned by Le Corbusier in the 1950s. It was too small then with Madhya Marg as its centre. See how the city has grown. But our administration is blindly following the same old rules framed years ago. Change is a must with the passage of time. Gurpreet S Malhotra, Kansal In India, follow the country’s rulesCreative expressions or fancy dress shows are to be held in art galleries and auditoriums, not on the road. These are distractions for other vehicle owners, and can raise road safety issues. The Motor Vehicles Act, as also the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, prohibit change of any, or all, particulars, as mentioned in the certificate of registration, as provided by the manufacturer. Art cars have a substantial following in the Western world, but when in India, the owner needs to follow the laws of the country. Nowhere in our vehicle ownership laws is there a provision for relaxation in laws. Delhiwallahas may love artist Senkoe for the vibrant murals in Lodhi Colony and the Jamia Millia Islamia University, but the roads are not the right place to display creativity. Art in Chandigarh should only be promoted in designated halls. Art always has a place in people’s hearts, but cannot be publicly displayed on the streets, and create chaos.Rajiv Boolchand Jain, Zirakpur, PunjabDon’t discriminate between residents and othersIf UT police cars have paintwork , why not other cars? Does artwork on a white police car not mean the vehicle is altered? One cannot discriminate between citizens and others. Vintage cars in Chandigarh are repainted and run at car rallies in festivals sponsored by the UT administration. Are such vehicles in Chandigarh impounded? Do vehicles of hotels or institutions with artwork or slogans painted on them, amount to altering a vehicle? Likewise, if a public building in UT has a mural or paint displayed on it , does it amount to altering the building? Colour or design improves aesthetic sense. it is time that colour choice blends into the fabric of the City Beautiful as it is not a historic relic. Creative expression must be allowed.Anil Malhotra||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/readers-take-what-s-the-harm-in-being-driven-by-creativity/story-gxCHhS7n9GlCAEL5rA8FxO.html
31-07-2020||City||GADVASU organises webinar on challenges faced by dairy farmers||The department of dairy technology, College of Dairy Science and Technology, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Ludhiana organised a two-days national webinar on ‘Pre-Mid-Post Covid-19 Challenges of Dairy Farmers/ Entrepreneurs’ under RKVY Project entitled ‘Enhancing Profitability of Farmers Through Value Addition and Entrepreneurship Development.” Dr JPS Gill, director of research and Dr SK Uppal, dean, CODST emphasised on the opportunities of value addition of milk and milk products for a steady and firm income source to entrepreneurs during this lockdown period. The webinar was concurrent with the national e-brainstorming session. Dr S Sivakumar, head, DT and organising secretary welcomed the participants and experts. The sessions were coordinated by co-organising secretary Dr Sunil Kumar and rapporteurs Dr Rekha Chawla and Venus Bansal. Eighteen participants from Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and Tamil Nadu attended this national webinar. On the first day of National Webinar, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, from SGIDT, BASU, Patna delivered an interactive talk on ‘employment opportunities and enhancing the farmers’ income through value addition of traditional and fermented dairy products. Dr Atanu Jana from SMC College of Dairy Science, AAU, Anand discussed the opportunities for value addition to ice cream and frozen desserts.The farmers and entrepreneurs were also made aware of the strategies to overcome recent challenges in dairy animal management by Dr Sandeep Kaswan, GADVASU and about Women Empowerment strategies in dairying by Dr K Poonusamy, Principal Scientist, Dairy Extension Division, ICAR-NDRI, Karnal.Two more interactive sessions on FSSAI registration/licensing need for the dairy entrepreneurs by Venus Bansal and key points for establishment and management of mini dairy processing unit by Dr S Sivakumar were also held.The entrepreneurs addressed various problems and were provided instant solutions by the expert panel during the forum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gadvasu-organises-webinar-on-challenges-faced-by-dairy-farmers/story-WhEkN5p7cVEjwx4ngQSRZK.html
31-07-2020||Patna||Scientists analysing results of phase one safety trial of Covaxin||The results of the first phase of safety trials of India’s first domestic vaccine candidate are being analysed, officials said on Friday, and an expert panel will approve the next round once the results are in.The Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) of the vaccine will give nod to embark on the second phase of human trial, which will be to test the vaccine’s safety and immunogenicity, after analysis of results of 375 people, who were administered the vaccine in the first phase, said sources associated with the trial in New Delhi. The DSMB is an independent panel of experts, constituted by the Bharat Biotech International Limited (BBIL). The DSMB has been approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO). The ICMR is partnering the BBIL in the trials of Covaxin (BBV152 Covid vaccine). “We were advised to close ‘recruitment’ (enrolment of volunteers for the trial) yesterday after the 12 sites, selected for the trials, achieved the sample size of the first phase of trials. We will wait for DSMB nod before embarking on the second phase of trials,” said Dr CM Singh, professor of community and family medicine, also the principal investigator of the trial at AIIMS-Patna. The institute is among 12 other sites the ICMR has approved for the human trial of the vaccine. “We administered the vaccine on 46 people, of which nine have been given its second dose on the 14th day after the first shot of the vaccine. Only three volunteers complained of slight pain at the point of injection. There were no side-effects, which is an indication that the vaccine is safe,” said Dr Singh. “Vaccine is to be given on 0 day and 14. The follow-up sampling to see the level of immunogenicity (ability of a foreign substance, such as an antigen, to provoke an immune response in the body of a human) has to be done on day 14, 28, 42, 104 and 194,” he added. The second phase of the trial will be on 750 people that will be to check the vaccine’s safety and immunogenicity. The ICMR has selected 12 institutes for the trial. They are AIIMS-Delhi, Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences, Hyderabad; PGMIS Rohtak; SRM Medical College Hospital and Research Centre, Chennai; AIIMS-Patna, Redkar Hospital, Goa; Gillurkar Multi-specialty Hospital and Research Centre, Nagpur; Sum Hospital, Bhubaneswar; Jeevan Rekha Hospital, Belagavi (Karnataka); King George Hospital, Visakhapatnam; Prakhar Hospital, Kanpur; and Rana Hospital, Gorakhpur. The 12 institutes have been asked by the ICMR to fast track clinical trials of the vaccine as it is being considered as one of the top priority projects which are being monitored at the topmost level of the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/covid-19-vaccine-covaxin-passes-initial-safety-test-first-phase-trial-ends/story-OE622slLlUueK17V8reldP.html
31-07-2020||City||Punjab health minister flags off second phase of awareness drive under Mission Fateh||Health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Friday flagged off the Information Education Communication (IEC) vans under Mission Fateh.Sidhu said, “The state is going through a crucial time, but we need to keep ourselves motivated. For that, I have instructed my media teams to make people aware of the preventive measures to thwart the spread of Covid-19. In the second phase of this campaign, the teams will cover rural areas of the health blocks.”He added that under Mission Fateh, e-sanjeevani and Cova app are made for the welfare of people so that they can take maximum benefit with minimum effort.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-health-minister-flags-off-second-phase-of-awareness-drive-under-mission-fateh/story-MOX7iD1LOQzKc9V5YOkB1H.html
31-07-2020||City||Three inducted into Ludhiana Police as Joint CP||The Ludhiana police commissionerate has created three new posts of joint commissioner of police (CP) and the post of deputy superintendent of police (headquarters) has been abolished. The hierarchy structure in Ludhiana police commissionerate has also been rejigged. After the CP, the joint CP will be the senior-most officer, while DCPs will be on the third number in the hierarchy structure.Three posts of joint CP (headquarters), joint CP (city) and joint CP (rural) have been created. IPC officer J Elanchezhian has been given charge of joint CP headquarters. J Elanchezhian has already served as the assistant commissioner of police. IPS officer Kanwardeep Kaur has joined as Joint CP (rural). Similarly, IPC officer Bhagirath Singh Meena has been transferred as joint CP (city). With the induction of three new officers, the city has 44 gazetted officers – including a CP, five DCPs, 10 ADCPs, 24 ACPs and a DSP (anti-narcotics), whereas the city has 28 police stations and one women police station to deal with matrimonial disputes.IPS officer Akhil Chaudhary has been transferred as SSP Ropar after the post of DCP headquarters has been abolished.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-inducted-into-ludhiana-police-as-joint-cp/story-X0bYxXzhSxbyPhUce4cx5L.html
31-07-2020||City||Thane district MNS president detained for protesting outside TMC office||The Kapurbawdi police have detained MNS Thane district president Avinash Jadhav along with two other MNS party workers for staging a protest along with 30 nurses outside the Thane Municipal Corporation office and Balkum Covid Hospital set up in Global Impact Hub building in Thane on Friday. They were protesting against the non-payment of dues to the nursing staff in the hospital and also sacking of few on contract basis even though the contract was not yet over. The police informed that the procedure to arrest the three was going on at the time of going to the press. A case is also registered against Jadhav at Naupada Police station on Friday. Jadhav also has being served two years externment notice by a sub-divisional police officer of Virar on the recommendation of the police department of Palghar, Thane, Thane Rural, Navi Mumbai, Raigad and Mumbai for alleged constant protest during the Pandemic. Jadhav will be given a hearing on the notice on August 4. On Friday morning, three to four MNS workers led by Jadhav staged a protest outside Thane Municipal Corporation’s headquarters in Panchpakhadi. Anil Mangle, Senior Police Inspector of Naupada said, “There were 30 nurses along with the MNS party worker which is against the lockdown norms. We booked Jadhav under section 188 and 269 for disobedience.”Jadhav also created a ruckus outside Covid Hospital in Balkum.A civic official requesting anonymity said, “The MNS workers came near the security without wearing a mask and demanded to talk to the authorities. They violated the safety protocol putting the hospital employees at risk. We registered a case against them in Kapurbawdi Police station.” The police also booked Mahesh Kadam and Ravindra More, two other MNS leaders with Jadhav. Assistant commissioner of police, zone 5, Pankaj Shirsat, said, “Apart from 188 and 269 we have also filed a case under section 353 IPC for obstructing work of a civil servant. The process to arrest all three is underway, they will be arrested late at night.”Jadhav told media persons, that despite the action and pressure on him by the government he will continue to fight for the cause of common people. “There was no need for Anti Extortion and crime branch officer to come to detain me. Local police would have sufficed, these are merely pressure tactics, we will not bow to it,” he said. In the meantime, Jadhav also got a two-year externment notice from Palghar police. Renuka Bagade, sub-divisional officer of Virar said, “Under the Mumbai Police Act 1951, section 53, police department of five different cities have proposed to extern Jadhav for two years outside the limit of their cities. I am the investigating officer on this case and the decision on externment will be taken after a hearing given to Jadhav on August 4.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-district-mns-president-detained-for-protesting-outside-tmc-office/story-gEjM9NAmiyKXmfJ8GR7AUO.html
31-07-2020||City||Garment shop robbery: Three pregnant women thieves ‘conned’ cops||A day after the police arrested seven members of a women’s gang for targeting a garment shop in Salem Tabri area, it has come to the fore that three women were pregnant.According to the police, the women revealed that they used to recce shops on the pretext of picking garbage. The women would commit theft early in the morning between 2 am and 4 am and mostly target garments shops. They would lift the shutter of a shop up to 1-2 feet to gain entry, while the pregnant women would keep a watch outside, as they don’t raise immediate suspicion. Chhoti, who is the main conspirator and is six months pregnant hired an auto-rickshaw for ₹1,500, which ferried her to several markets to recce shops.Chhoti then involved other women to commit thefts. The women would lift the shutter of a shop to gain entry while pregnant women would keep a watch outside to trick the police.As per the statements given by these women to the police, they used to sell the stolen items as their husbands are unemployed. These women are slum dwellers who reside in shanties near the railway station in Mullanpur. Auto driver Paras Kumar led to the arrest of the women thieves.Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (ADCP, city 1) Deepak Pareek said that Paras Kumar would pick the women from Mullanpur Dakha in the morning and ferry them around the city to find their target. “The accused had stolen garments worth ₹80,000 from a shop in Salem Tabri area on the intervening night of July 25 and 26. The police have recovered 22 suits from their possession including ₹4,650 in cash, which they had earned by selling the garments,” he added. He added that the accused were captured in the CCTVs installed near the shop. The police circulated the video on social networking sites for the identification of the accused. On Friday the police got information about the gang. The gang had committed a similar crime in November 2019 in Model Town. The accused have confessed their involvement in four such incidents in Ludhiana, Dakha, and Khanna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/garment-shop-robbery-three-pregnant-women-thieves-conned-cops/story-u4QWRwULt2PamXWGgyQ9YO.html
31-07-2020||Delhi||Tablighi Jamaat: HC seeks Centre, police’s response on foreigners’ pleas to quash FIRs||The Delhi high court Friday sought the response of the Centre and the Delhi Polie on pleas by 24 foreigners seeking the quashing of FIRs against them for attending a Tablighi Jamaat congregation in south Delhi’s Nizamuddin in March and allegedly carrying out missionary activities in violation of visa norms and breaching the prevalent Cvoid-19 restrictions.Justice Anuj Jairam Bhambhani asked the authorities to file their status reports before the next date of hearing, August 10.The court was informed senior advocate Rebecca John that these 24 foreigners, who have filed two separate petitions, have already admitted their guilt in the FIR lodged by the crime branch of Delhi Police and pleaded for lenient punishment under the provisions of plea bargaining.John told the court that they were allowed to walk free on payment of varying fines and pleading guilty for minor offences related to the Covid-19 lockdown violations. However, they are not able to return to their countries due to the pendency of other FIRs lodged at the Seelampur police station.She contended that the police cannot lodge separate FIRs for the same alleged offence and they are unable to go back due to look out circulars (LOCs) against them. She said while the first FIR was lodged on March 31, this second FIR by the Seelampur police was registered on April 1, as they were staying in a masjid there and the police then took them to a quarantine centre.The petitioners have sought quashing of two FIRs registered at police station Seelampur under various sections of IPC and the Epidemic Diseases Act.The petitioners said the FIRs registered at Seelampur are untenable in law in light of foreign nationals having entered plea bargaining.At least 9,000 people, including the foreign nationals participated in the religious congregation in Nizamuddin. Later, the tablighi headquarters became a Covid-19 hot spot many of the attendees had by then travelled to various parts of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/tablighi-jamaat-hc-seeks-centre-police-s-response-on-foreigners-pleas-to-quash-firs/story-idf4vBvSjo24LWTK0mtAUL.html
31-07-2020||Delhi||HC grants anticipatory bail to former minorities commission chairman||The Delhi High Court on Friday granted anticipatory bail to former Delhi Minorities Commission (DMC) chairman Zafarul Islam Khan (72) in a sedition case after the police said that his presence was not required for the investigation anymore.Justice Manoj Kumar Ohri allowed Khan’s plea seeking protection from arrest and asked him to join the investigation whenever the investigating agency needed him to.“The petitioner (Khan) is admitted to anticipatory bail on furnishing of a personal bond of ₹50,000 and one surety of the like amount in the event of arrest,” the judge said while dictating the order.According to the police, on April 28, Khan had published, through his official page on social media, a post that allegedly contained seditious and hateful comments.On May 2, based on a complaint, the Delhi Police Special Cell lodged an FIR against Khan under sections 124A and 153A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for the alleged offences of sedition and promoting feelings of hatred between different groups on the grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence and language.On Friday, appearing for Khan, advocates Vrinda Grover, Soutik Banerjee and Ratna Appnender told the court that he has already submitted his laptop and had taken part in the investigation several times.Advocate MP Singh, counsel for the police, said he has received instructions from the police that Khan is no longer required for further investigation.Following this, the court granted him anticipatory bail and asked him to cooperate in the investigation and in case of a change in address, inform the investigating officer. The judge also asked him not to leave the city without prior intimation to the police.The court had earlier granted him interim relief, asking the police not to take any coercive measure against him till July 31.Khan sought anticipatory bail on the grounds that he is a public servant and a senior citizen aged 72 years, who suffers from heart disease and hypertension and is highly susceptible to Covid-19, which can have fatal consequences for a person of his age.The plea has sought directions to the police that in the event of his arrest, he be immediately released on bail and that no coercive measures be taken against him. It also sought directions that Khan’s laptop and mobile should not be seized.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hc-grants-anticipatory-bail-to-former-minorities-commission-chairman/story-aagNEZvfUsmmx0ax9gAAIP.html
31-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi riots: HC dismisses ex-councillor Ishrat Jahan’s plea in UAPA case||The Delhi high court Friday dismissed a plea by former Congress municipal councillor Ishrat Jahan, booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in a case related to the north-east Delhi riots, challenging a lower court order extending the time for completing the investigation by 60 more days.Jahan was arrested on February 26 and is currently lodged in the Tihar jail.Justice Suresh Kait, while rejecting Jahan’s plea filed through advocates Lalit Valecha, said the trial court has passed the order for extension of time for probe after going through the facts and circumstances and the provisions of the UAPA.“Therefore, I am of the view that there is no illegality or perversity in the said order... Accordingly, finding no merit in the present petition, the same is dismissed with no order as to costs,” Kait said.The court said the trial court had formed an opinion after studying the case diary, hearing of submissions and satisfying the requirement of law. “The court, therefore, has considered all relevant circumstances for passing the order granting the extension of period of investigation,” the judge said in a 19-page judgment.Delhi Police, through counsels Amit Mahajan and Rahul Mehra, had also opposed the plea saying that the high court should not intervene in the matter as far as the order of the additional sessions judge, extending the time to probe the case, is concerned as there was no infirmity in it..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-riots-hc-dismisses-ex-councillor-ishrat-jahan-s-plea-in-uapa-case/story-65NVGQ87kouAKJK0JRdiEM.html
31-07-2020||Mumbai||‘Would like to tell Sushant’s fans...’: Uddhav Thackeray slams case transfer bid to Bihar||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday said that the state police were competent enough to probe Sushant Singh Rajput’s death and the transfer of the investigation would be an insult to them as they have been fighting the Covid-19 pandemic like warriors. The chief minister said that nobody should politicise the death of the actor. Thackeray also criticised leader of opposition in the legislative assembly Devendra Fadnavis saying that he had doubted the capability of the Mumbai Police despite having served as chief minister of the state for five years. “The state police and Mumbai police are fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. They are Covid-19 warriors and not to trust them is an insult to them. I would like to tell all Sushant Singh Rajput’s fans that they should trust Mumbai Police and pass on whatever information you have (about the case) to them,” he said.ALSO READ | Rhea Chakraborty issues statement on Sushant Singh Rajput death case, says ‘truth shall prevail’There has been an increasing demand for a CBI probe into the death of the actor, but the Maharashtra government has insisted that the state police were capable of handling the investigation.The 34-year-old actor was found dead at his apartment in Bandra on June 14. A Bihar police team is probing a separate ‘abetment to suicide’ case on the basis of a complaint filed by the actor’s father Krishna Kumar Singh in Patna.Earlier on Friday afternoon, the Enforcement Directorate filed a money laundering case in connection with the death of the actor. The case was filed on the basis of a First Information Report filed by the Bihar police, officials said.Sushant Singh’s father had alleged that there were unexplained transfers from his son’s bank account involving actress Rhea Chakraborty and six others.ALSO READ | Sushant Singh Rajput’s kin file caveat in SC, seek hearing on Rhea’s plea to transfer probe to MumbaiThe late actor’s father has accused Chakraborty, a budding TV and film actress, of having befriended his son in May 2019 with the intention of furthering her own career.The investigating agency will probe allegations of alleged mishandling of the actor’s money and his bank accounts. According to officials, Rhea Chakraborty and others named in the ED case are likely to be summoned next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/would-like-to-tell-sushant-s-fans-uddhav-thackeray-slams-case-transfer-move-to-bihar/story-mCDI1NhBM4mSwxisicJDZP.html
31-07-2020||Dehradun||Four Covid-19 positive patients die in Uttarakhand, state tally of rises to 7,183||Uttarakhand on Friday reported 118 fresh Covid-19 positive cases, taking the state tally to 7,183. Out of 7,183, a total of 4,168 people have recovered successfully, bringing the recovery rate in the state to 58.03 %. According to the health bulletin released by the state health department on Friday evening, 118 fresh cases included maximum 55 from Dehradun district, followed by Nainital (34), Haridwar (6), Tehri (5), US Nagar (5), Almora (3), Rudraprayag (3) Champawat (1) and one each from Bageshwar, Chamoli and Uttarkashi.The state also reported death of four Covid-19 positive patients. According to health bulletin released by the state health department, a 55-year-old man who died in AIIMS Rishikesh on July 28 due to cardiac arrest, tested positive for Covid-19. A 75-year-old woman who died at AIIMS Rishikesh on July 29 due to ‘cardiac arrest, respiratory failure’, also tested positive for Covid-19.Another 24-year-old positive woman died in AIIMS Rishikesh on July 30 due to ‘Refractory Septic Shock, ARDS, Covid-19 Pneumonia, Renal Disease’. A 60-year-old man, who was Covid-19 positive, died at Government Hospital Haldwani on Friday due to ‘Bilateral Pneumonitis, Severe Acute Respiratory Distress, Type 1 Respiratory Failure’.A total of 80 Covid-19 positive patients have died in Uttarakhand till now, with 12 patients dying due to coronavirus, according to the health officials. The rest of the positive patients died due to comorbidities and other causes, added health officials. Many of 118 fresh cases were reported in case of people who had travel history from Delhi, Maharashtra and Jammu and Kashmir. But in large number of cases (82 cases), travel history was not available. The fresh cases included 38 contacts of earlier positive cases. Also, 172 Covid-19 patients were discharged from different hospitals in the state on Friday with a maximum of 95 from Dehradun district. The rate of doubling of cases based on the last seven days now stands at 24.97 days, while the infection rate is 4.57 %. The state has so far tested over 1.68 lakh samples of which results of over 8,000 are awaited. Uttarakhand currently has 328 containment zones in five districts including maximum 299 in Haridwar, followed by 13 in Dehradun, 11 in US Nagar, 4 in Uttarkashi district and one in Champawat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/four-covid-19-positive-patients-died-in-uttarakhand-state-tally-of-rises-to-7183/story-empddYUYY0ewDMgYQBnZvK.html
31-07-2020||Kolkata||Covid-19 cases in West Bengal cross 20,000-mark||The number of active Covid-19 cases in West Bengal crossed the 20,000-mark on Friday with nearly 2,500 new cases being reported in the last 24 hours. At least 45 Covid-19 patients died on Friday taking the total death toll to 1,581. More than 500 deaths were reported in the last two weeks alone. Kolkata and North 24 Parganas district accounted for nearly 50% of 2,496 new cases registered on Friday. While Kolkata reported 670 cases, North 24 Parganas - the second most densely populated district in the country after Thane in Maharashtra - reported 644 cases. Out of the 45 deaths reported on Friday, 34 were reported from these two districts. Meanwhile, Fuad Halim, a Kolkata-based doctor, who was conducting dialysis in his five-bedded hospital at Rs 50 only has tested positive for Covid-19. Halim is the son Hasim Abdul Halim, Bengal’s longest-serving Assembly speaker. West Bengal has reported 70,188 cases till date out of which 48,374 have been treated and discharged. The discharge rate is 68%. More than 19,000 samples are being tested every day. The Mamata Banerjee administration has planned to ramp up the number of test to 25,000 per day by mid-August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/covid-19-cases-in-west-bengal-cross-20-000-mark/story-Q1Qr39L7rhBVITtiKj9EoJ.html
31-07-2020||Noida||Two dead in Noida building collapse, NDRF rushed in for rescue operation||Two persons have died in a building collapse in Noida’s sector-11 on Friday evening and two others are injured. Rescue operations are underway and an NDRF (national disaster response force) team has been rushed to the building collapse site.Noida police had initially said that three out of the four injured had received minor injuries while the condition of the fourth person was serious. “We have rescued four people. it is difficult to tell their condition right now, they have been admitted to a hospital. As per initial assessment, three of them were not so serious but the fourth person’s condition is serious,” said Sriparna Ganguly, additional commissioner of police, Noida. Later, two of the four injured succumbed to their injuries.According to the initial information, the building housed a manufacturing unit for solar panels. The front portion of the building is said to have collapsed trapping some individuals. Ganguly said it was difficult to immediately establish the cause of the collapse.“Not possible to immediately tell what caused the collapse. The owner of the building has, however, said that some plumbing work was going on in the building. Exact reasons will only come out through an inquiry,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/building-collapses-in-noida-ndrf-rushed-in-for-rescue-operation/story-030HaX6rgmAveGQcK7g8JJ.html
31-07-2020||City||Political parties reject magisterial inquiry into hooch deaths, seek judicial probe by HC judge||Amritsar Major political parties in Punjab on Friday rejected the magisterial inquiry into multiple hooch deaths in Amritsar, Batala and Tarn Taran that chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh has ordered. Instead, they have demanded a judicial probe by a sitting judge of the Punjab and Haryana high court. Congress MP Partap Singh Bajwa tweeted, “Captain Amarinder ji. If you really want to unearth the truth behind the demise of 21 people due to spurious liquor and bring justice to their families, nothing other than a time-bound inquiry by a sitting judge from the Punjab and Haryana high court will suffice.”Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) spokesman Daljit Singh Cheema said, “The CM should not only hand over the responsibility of inquiring into the hooch tragedy to the high court, but also include the Rs 5,600 crore excise revenue loss, the sale of illegal liquor directly from distilleries, sale of spurious liquor from illegal distilleries and bottling plants patronised by Congress leaders and inter-state liquor smuggling too.”Cheema added the present inquiry ordered by the CM also did not have the required terms of reference to book the real culprits. “Vague terms of reference, which are limited to the incidents have been given. In such a situation no officer will go after Congress leaders who patronise liquor smuggling and sale of spurious liquor,” he claimed.Leader of opposition in Punjab assembly and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Harpal Singh Cheema has held the CM responsible for the tragedy. “Thanks to the freedom given by the state government, the liquor mafia is not only damaging the state exchequer, but also playing with the precious lives of the people,” he said, adding that his party demanded a time-bound probe by a sitting judge of the high court. “Apart from shifting the probe to a sitting judge, we demand the grieving families be given relief of at least Rs 5 lakh per family,” said Ranjit Singh Brahmpura, president, Shiromani Akali Dal (Taksali).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/political-parties-reject-magisterial-inquiry-into-hooch-deaths-seek-judicial-probe-by-hc-judge/story-y7iUZK7WV7YklIqCECSm4M.html
31-07-2020||City||Bir theft: Pre-arrest bail plea of two dera followers rejected||Faridkot The court of additional district and sessions judge Harbans Singh Lekhi on Friday dismissed the anticipatory bail plea of two accused dera followers in newly-added offences in the case of theft of a bir of the Guru Granth Sahib in 2015. A ‘bir’ was stolen from Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village gurdwara on June 1, 2015. A First Information Report (FIR) was registered the next day under sections 295-A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) and 380 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Bajakhana police station. On July 4 this year, the special investigation team (SIT) probing sacrilege cases arrested seven dera followers in the case. Two of these accused, Sukhjinder Singh and Shakti Singh, were released as they had already got bail from a Mohali court. On July 6, the SIT filed a charge-sheet in court, adding sections 120B (criminal conspiracy), 414 (assisting in concealing stolen property) 451 (trespassing in order to commit an offence) and 201(causing disappearance of evidence) of the IPC against eleven accused.As the Mohali court had granted bail to Shakti and Sukhjinder in only two sections, they moved court, fearing arrest in the newly-added sections. Five other accused have been granted bail. Vinod Monga, the counsel for dera followers, argued that accused applicants were not required for custodial interrogation for the newly-added offences, but they are were ready to join investigation. The judge said, “I do not consider it a fit case for grant of pre-arrest bail to accused applicants, because if the concession of the anticipatory bail is granted to them, then certainly it will hamper the investigation, as some other co-accused are yet to be arrested. In such a scenario, the rulings referred to by the learned counsel for the accused applicants are not applicable to the facts of the present case.” “We will initiate the legal process to take custody of Shakti and Sukhjinder as their custodial interrogation is required for the newly-added offences,” said deputy inspector general of police Ranbir Singh Khatra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bir-theft-pre-arrest-bail-plea-of-two-dera-followers-rejected/story-ksght7Bp13hP1TOgW3JjcP.html
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab to provide provisional admission to open-school students in Class-11||Punjab school education minister Vijay Inder Singla said on Friday that the state government has decided to allow provisional admission of as many as 31,022 open category candidates in 10+1 in schools as regular students. “However, such students will have to take the examinations of Class 10 when things became normal,” the minister added. The education minister informed that the matriculation result of regular students was declared by the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) on the basis of Continuous Comprehensive Evaluation (CCE) but open school students were not covered under CCE criteria. “The open category candidates were in dilemma as they were not getting admission in schools as regular students. After reviewing the situation, we have decided to provide them a short-term relief. Now, they will get admission in 10+1 provisionally subject to the condition that as and when the things become normal, they will take the matriculation examinations,” said Singla. He said the government has also decided to declare the result of supplementary examination of last year students on the basis of CCE of the relevant year. He added that these students had to appear in one subject as supplementary examination this year but they were not able to take it due to cancellation of exam in view of Covid-19 outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-to-provide-provisional-admission-to-open-school-students-in-class-11/story-VXrVmoRzcoIpUzZXoc6IQN.html
31-07-2020||Gurugram||Unlock 3.0: Gurugram’s camera museum to reopen, albeit with mandatory safety norms||Gurugram’s one stop destination for vintage cameras i.e. Museo Camera, is reopening tomorrow (August 1, 2020). Excited much? But opening any public space amid the pandemic means taking extra care and ensuring safety regulations for visitors and staff alike. And it certainly means more precautions. So when you visit the museum next, be sure to wear a face mask, which is mandatory for everyone visiting the museum!   Friends Museocamera is opening soon. Today we were absolutely honoured and privileged to welcome one of the most celebrated Indian sculptor K. S.Radhakrishnan #special guest during lockdownA post shared by  Museo Camera 📸 (@museo_camera) on Jul 21, 2020 at 7:57am PDTSome of the other measures include daily temperature screening of all the staff members, and visitors. Hand sanitisers have been placed at convenient spots across the museum. UV-C sanitising of all common areas is taking place twice, and for restrooms it’s scheduled thrice, every day. This is being done to ensure that no visitor or staff is present during the treatment. Group tours have been limited to six or less. And there are even restrictions on the number of visitors to the museum and the galleries, so that social distancing can be followed.Museums and cultural spaces have been one of the worst hit as they were always in a precarious financial situation, opines Aditya Arya, founder of the museum. “The Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown could not have come at a worse time for the museum. After the public opening in August last year, we were just beginning to establish ourselves as an important institution for photography and art lovers in this part of the world. The closure of the museum brought all our revenue generating activities to a grinding halt. It is a challenging time for us but we are optimistic that we will be back to normal.” And visitors are kicked, too. As soon as the news of reopening was up, social media became abuzz with excited visitors expressing their joy. “This is a world class museum that India can actually boast of. So happy to see it starting again,” says Dilshad Master Kumar, a Gurugrammer. And Gayatri Singh, another Gurugrammer, adds, “Looking forward to engaging shows at this amazing museum that we all are proud of!” Manisha Seam, a Gurugram resident and a professional, says, “I’m very willing to visit the museum with friends and fellow photo enthusiasts. It’s re-opening is a boon. We must preserve heritage of all kinds, and this museum is a class apart in its offerings and experiences.”The museum, dedicated to the art and history of photography, was formed as a partnership between India Photo Archive Foundation and Municipal Corporation of Gurugram. Arya adds, “I don’t want the future generations to read about our initiative in history books as one the most important and significant museum which was created by crowdfunding and a unique public private partnership which did not survive the pandemic. It will be sad not only for Gurugram but the art community to loose this iconic landmark museum. Museo Camera also holds the unique distinction of being one-of-its-kind crowd funded museum in India. The museum interior was funded with donations received from well-wishers.” Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/unlock-3-0-gurugram-s-camera-museum-to-reopen-albeit-with-mandatory-safety-norms/story-7qSDIHYQt2wifTX6k4SHaJ.html
31-07-2020||City||10-bed Primary Health Centre to come up at Jhordan village near Raikot town||Punjab health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Friday laid the foundation stone of a 10-bed Primary Health Centre (PHC) at Jhordan village near Raikot town of the district. This PHC is being constructed in memory of Shaheed Hawaldar Ishar Singh of Saragarhi War who belonged to the village. Sidhu said that this PHC would be constructed at a cost of around ₹55 lakh at the site where a government dispensary existed. He added that this hospital would be completed in the next six months. While speaking to media persons, Sidhu said that it would be a 10-bedded PHC, with facilities such as cold chain room, immunisation room, ward, sterilisation room, labour room, laboratory, besides others. Sidhu said that soon, more such hospitals, as well as trauma centres, would be set up in different rural and urban areas of the state. He said that to check the shortage of doctors in the department, the Punjab government would be recruiting a total of 7,055 staff in the health and family welfare department. This staff would include 500 medical officers, 500 specialist doctors, paramedical staff, ANMs, multipurpose health workers, nurses, technical staff, besides others. On a question related to the opening of gyms in Punjab, Balbir Singh Sidhu said that the Punjab government has not allowed it for the time being as if the gyms are opened now, they might lead to infecting a large number of people. Earlier, the health and family welfare minister also paid obeisance at the memorial of Shaheed Hawaldar Ishar Singh of Saragarhi War in the village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/10-bed-primary-health-centre-to-come-up-at-jhordan-village-near-raikot-town/story-MwGKI6byVOw28A54zBHCbJ.html
31-07-2020||City||30-year-old ‘murdered’ in Sangrur, brothers of female friend arrested||Two weeks after a 30-year-old man was found dead on Bagrian-Dhuri road of Sangrur, police arrested the two brothers of his female friend on Thursday. The accused have been identified as Gurmukh Singh and Ram Singh of Bagrian village.As per the FIR, the victim, Kulvir Singh of Ghanauri Kalan, had gone to meet his female friend on the night of July 17 but never returned. The family came to know about his death on July 27 after his body was found. A case under Section 304 (punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) and 201 (disappearance of evidence of offence) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the two accused on the complaint of the victim’s father.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/30-year-old-murdered-in-sangrur-brothers-of-female-friend-arrested/story-fCYEVjqZwX0MEd5LmhxyFN.html
31-07-2020||City||Kirit Somaiya demands resignation from Nitin Raut over inflated bills||Kirit Somaiya, a former member of parliament has asked cabinet minister Nitin Raut to resign on Friday, during a press conference in Thane. He asked residents to not pay bogus electricity bills and file a criminal case against the Maharashtra State Electricity Board instead. After receiving complaints from residents about the increased bills, Somaiya held a press conference in Thane asking residents to not pay the bills. “If they cancel your electricity connection for not paying the bills, file a criminal offence against the Electricity Board. We have received more than 500 complaints where Thane residents with an average bill of ₹2,000 or ₹4,000 have received ₹25,000 and ₹45,000 bills,” said Somaiya at the BJP office in Khopat. MLC Niranjan Davkhare and Somaiya have put forth some demands for the electricity board, “The hike in bills implemented from April 1 need to be taken back. The first 100 units should be waived off and the next 300 units should be at a 50% discount. During this lockdown period a time frame of six months should be given to pay the bill,” said Davkhare. Somaiya also took potshots against Sanjay Raut and Nitin Raut, “Both Sanjay Raut and Nitin Raut indulge in dramatics, Nitin Raut himself had requested for ₹20,000 crores to pay salaries of the electricity board staff. He was not allotted that money, so instead, he increased the bills to pay for the salaries.” Somaiya demands CBI inquiry into actor death With new information coming to light daily in the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, Somaiya demanded that the CBI should take charge if the police are not able to probe the case. “Either the CBI or the Bihar police should be given charge of probing into the death of the late actor if the police cannot handle the case,” said Somaiya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kirit-somaiya-demands-resignation-from-nitin-raut-over-inflated-bills/story-QGwM14vhQx8v6izbhkQRtN.html
31-07-2020||Mumbai||HC directs Mumbai police to deoute cops at Mahim society to curb slaughtering||The Bombay high court has directed Mumbai police to depute two police constables at a society in Mahim till August 2 to curb any act of slaughtering during the Bakri Eid festival that will be observed on August 1 and 2. The petitioner society approached the court seeking a restraint on members from slaughtering animals on the premise in light of previous high court orders that ban slaughtering of animals outside the abattoir at Deonar or any other place designated by the BMC during the festival. After the BMC informed the court that it had not issued any permission to the members, the court directed the police to depute constables. A division bench of justice R D Dhanuka and justice V G Bisht while hearing a petition filed by Lingam Battula and other members of Unnati Cooperative Housing Society at Mahim (W) was informed by advocates Siddh Vidya and Ashish Verma that despite high court orders restricting slaughtering of animals in private properties, the society had an apprehension that some members may carry out slaughtering on the occasion of Bakri Eid. Vidya informed the court that as the festival was observed over a period of three days the court should direct the authorities to restrict slaughtering of animals in the society on all three days. The advocates also sought similar orders for the entire city. On its part senior counsel, Anil Sakhare for the BMC informed the court that the civic body which is responsible for issuing licenses for the slaughtering of animals on festive occasions had not issued any license to any of the society members. Following an order by a previous bench of the HC in 2017, the BMC had made it mandatory for devotees to secure a license before undertaking to slaughter of sacrificial animals. The order was further beefed up by another bench in 2019 wherein slaughtering in homes and private properties were restricted due to health and hygiene issues. The bench had directed that slaughtering of sacrificial animals could take place only in the Deonar abattoir but after it was informed that such an arrangement would lead to chaos, it had directed the BMC to identify areas in each ward where slaughtering could take place under the supervision of civic officials. After hearing the submissions, the court directed the Mumbai police to depute two constables at the society during the duration of the festival to ensure that the members do not violate court orders. The bench, however, refused to pass orders on the prayer seeking a blanket order for the entire city and directed the petitioners to resort to appropriate proceedings in the form of public interest litigation for the same and disposed of the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-directs-mumbai-police-to-deoute-cops-at-mahim-society-to-curb-slaughtering/story-Qk7Ea2gyh3NZDa7n1C5W2M.html
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana HC won’t resume normal functioning in August||The Punjab and Haryana high court (HC) won’t resume normal functioning of its courts in August either, in view of Covid-19 situation. The HC on Friday decided to defer case hearings listed for August, to November and December.The HC is working in a restricted manner since March and only ‘urgent’ cases are being taken up through video conferencing. Nearly 30-odd judges are taking up cases in single as well as division benches. An official said that the decision in this regard was taken by the administrative committee in view of the prevailing Covid-19 situation in both the states and Chandigarh. The official said that the cases listed after March 24 will be taken up on the dates fixed in the month of August, while other pending cases will be adjourned to November and December. In case of urgency, the petitioner can file an application for early hearing in pending cases, the official said. Listing of fresh ‘urgent cases’, such as bail matters, is being allowed without prior permission. However, there are some categories of fresh cases, such as appeals against single judge orders, where a request has to be made for listing of the cases. The trial courts too are working in a restricted manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-hc-won-t-resume-normal-functioning-in-august/story-JF3kXVQuUuaBTis641DgIN.html
31-07-2020||City||‘Face-saving exercise’: RJD after JD(U) cancels Nitish Kumar’s virtual rally||The Janata Dal (United) on Friday deferred the virtual rally of its national president and Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar scheduled for August 7, during which he was slated to roll out the party’s campaign for the assembly elections due in October-November.Bashistha Narayan Singh, state JD(U) president and Rajya Sabha member, said, “In view of the flood situation and Covid-19 pandemic, the party has decided to postpone the proposed virtual rally of the chief minister.”The announcement comes a day after the party completed its exercise of holding virtual conferences in all the 243 assembly segments, which began on July 18 as part of build-up for the mega event.“Fresh date for the virtual rally will be decided later,” said the party’s national general secretary Ravindra Prasad Singh.RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwari said the JD(U)’s decision to postpone the proposed rally was prompted by fear of a repeat flop show. “When the ‘actual’ rally of JD (U) at Gandhi Maidan proved to be a flop, how can their ‘virtual’ rally be a success under these circumstances when people are very angry? They are aware that numbers of participants can’t be fudged on a live social media programme,” he said. “The decision to call it off is just a face-saving exercise.”Bihar continues to reel under floods, which has now engulfed 108 blocks of 14 districts, affecting 40 lakh people. It is also battling the surge in the Covid-19 cases.The JD(U) has been under fire from the opposition for low testing rate for Covid-19 and also for aping the BJP in deciding to hold virtual rallies. “The BJP started it. But their efforts led to the spread of coronavirus infecting 75 out of the 100 office bearers who were tested at the party office. Now, JD(U) has followed suit, but conditions are not favourable,” leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav had said while pushing for postponement of polls.While the JD(U)-BJP want polls as scheduled, NDA ally and LJP chief Chirag Paswan has also echoed Tejashwi’s concerns and cautioned the Election Commission to take a considered decision. On July 17, the opposition parties jointly petitioned the EC, pointing out that Covid-19 cases were likely to touch 1 million mark by October-November and the election exercise could just turn into a “super spreader event”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/face-saving-exercise-rjd-after-jd-u-cancels-nitish-kumar-s-virtual-rally/story-CnGVxsypQELjebm5HxTKmM.html
31-07-2020||Mumbai||Yes Bank fraud: CBI court rejects bail pleas of Kapil, Dheeraj Wadhawan||A special CBI court on Friday rejected the bail plea filed by the promoters of the Dewan Housing Finance Ltd (DHFL), Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan, arrested for their alleged involvement in the Yes Bank fraud case. They contended that the agency failed to file a charge sheet within the stipulated time of 60 days of their arrest.The CBI had filed a charge sheet on June 25 against Dewan Housing Finance Ltd (DHFL), its promoters Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan, Belief Realtors Pvt. Ltd, RKW Developers Pvt. Ltd, DoIT Urban Ventures (India) Pvt. Ltd, Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor and his daughter Roshni Kapoor. While the Wadhawans were arrested on April 26.The defence pleaded that the CBI missed the deadline in filing the charge sheet before the special court.They also had pointed out that the CBI special court refused to take cognizance of the charge sheet filed by CBI, as the agency had not yet obtained sanction for prosecution for Kapoor under Prevention of Corruption Act.The agency claimed that the charge sheet was submitted with the registrar of the court well within time.Hearing both the side the court rejected the contention of defence.As per CBI case, Yes Bank invested ₹3,700 crore in short-term debentures of DHFL between April and June 2018. In return, Kapoor was allegedly paid “kickbacks” amounting to ₹600 crore by DHFL promoter Kapil Wadhawan. DHFL sanctioned a loan to DoIT Urban Ventures (India) Pvt Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of RAB Enterprises, in which Kapoor’s wife Bindu is a director and 100% shareholder, alleged the CBI. Kapoor’s daughters, Rakhee Kapoor Tandon, Roshni Kapoor and Radha Kapoor, are also 100% shareholders in DoIT Urban Ventures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/yes-bank-fraud-cbi-court-rejects-bail-pleas-of-kapil-dheeraj-wadhawan/story-EcYPeXLQeqcW8Ed4on8TNM.html
31-07-2020||Lucknow||VHP activates its units abroad to celebrate Ram temple event in big way||The central leadership of the Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) has activated its units not only in Uttar Pradesh but across the country and even those abroad to ensure global celebrations for the bhoomi pujan (ground-breaking ceremony) of the proposed Ram temple in Ayodhya, scheduled to be held on August 5. International units of the VHP are also planning some kind of celebration across the globe on August 5, the day Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of Ram Mandir. The Indian–American community in New York is planning to celebrate by beaming images of lord Ram and 3D portraits of Ram Mandir across giant billboards at the iconic Times Square, New York. “The Indian community in the US will be celebrating at the Times Square in New York. Apart from this, the Indian community across the world will celebrate the coming up of a Ram Mandir in whatever way they can,” said Rajendra Singh ‘Pankaj’, central joint secretary, VHP. Vinayak Rao Deshpande, international general secretary, VHP, and Milind Parande, secretary general, VHP, are looking after international celebrations of the ground-breaking ceremony.“Not only in the US, but in several countries in Europe and in South Africa celebrations for bhoomi pujan of Ram mandir have been planned with the help of the Indian community living there,” pointed out Rajendra Singh. “As far as international celebrations are concerned to mark the bhoomi pujan of Ram Mandir at Ayodhya, celebrations in New York will be the biggest. But a message has been conveyed to the Indian diaspora across the world to hold some kind of celebration to mark bhoomi pujan of Ram Mandir,” Rajendra Singh pointed out. In India, VHP cadres in districts have been activated to convey the message in their respective regions to people to hold some kind of celebration on the day. The VHP and its affiliate organisations have planned various activities in villages across the state. Lighting diyas to organising bhajan-kirtan in small groups or assembling at one place in small numbers to watch the live telecast of the ceremony are all part of the VHP’s celebrations. “WhatsApp and social media messages are also being circulated, asking people to celebrate the occasion,” said Bholendra Singh, regional organisation secretary, VHP. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath and Champat Rai, chairman of the Trust, have also issued an appeal to people to light diyas in their homes to celebrate the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/vhp-activates-its-units-abroad-to-celebrate-ram-temple-event-in-big-way/story-0VjHe9ClhFX9ztIocHrc2L.html
31-07-2020||Noida||UP’s Gautam Buddh Nagar district records 133 new Covid-19 cases, tally now at 5,203||Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddh Nagar on Friday recorded 133 new Covid-19 cases which pushed the infection tally in the district to 5,203, official data showed.The number of active cases in the district stood at 796, up from 730 on Thursday and 679 on Wednesday, according to the data released by the Uttar Pradesh Health Department for a 24-hour period.On the brighter side, 66 coronavirus patients got discharged after treatment since Thursday and the total number of recoveries reached 4,365, the highest for any district in the state, data showed.The district has so far recorded 42 deaths linked to Covid-19 with a mortality rate of 0.80 per cent among positive patients, according to official statistics.The recovery rate of patients in the district has dropped slightly to 83.89 per cent from 84.77 per cent on Thursday and 85.48 per cent on Wednesday, as per the statistics.Gautam Buddh Nagar (796) stands 10th on the list of districts in the state in terms of active cases, while adjoining Ghaziabad (759) moved to the 11th position on Friday with 102 recoveries.The maximum active cases are in Lucknow (4,281) followed by Kanpur Nagar (2,821), Varanasi (1,699), Bareilly (1,477), Allahabad (1,425), Gorakhpur (1,155), Jhansi (1,024),  Jaunpur (948)  and Ballia (934), according to the data.There were 34,968 active cases in Uttar Pradesh, while the death toll reached 1,630 with 43 fatalities, as on Thursday. So far, 48,863 patients have recovered across the state, the data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/up-s-gautam-buddh-nagar-district-records-133-new-covid-19-patients-tally-now-at-5-203/story-Y8d46ST2u38gakjkHyTMyO.html
31-07-2020||City||RPF provides grocery kits to visually and physically challenged||In the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, the Railway Protection Force (RPF), Mumbai Division of Central Railway (CR) has distributed grocery kits to visually and physically challenged persons in last one week at Badlapur, Ambernath, Ulhasnagar and Vangani railway stations. This food kit consists of wheat flour, rice, lentils, sugar, rajma, groundnut, edible oil, and spices blend and tea powder. On Thursday, the RPF team from Ambernath with the help of an NGO Yuva Foundation distributed 125 grocery kit at Vangani station. “We have been distributing the kit since lockdown at different places. The visually challenged persons were asked to come to the railway station to collect the kits, following all the social distancing norms,” said Bapu Divse, head constable from Ambernath RPF. The RPF team also distributed flour (5kg bag each) to 102 differently-abled and visually challenged persons on Wednesday at Badlapur, Ambernath, Ulhasnagar and Vithalwadi stations. Manohar Tapre, member, Andh Berozgar Kalyankari Samiti, Vangani said, “This lockdown period has been challenging for those who completed depended on local trains for their livelihood. Most of the visually challenged used to earn by singing inside the trains. They have been sitting at home. Many people have come with us and so did the RPF and NGO.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rpf-provides-grocery-kits-to-visually-and-physically-challenged/story-2fTeOe9QBokSstVDC4D92J.html
31-07-2020||Viral||Delhi’s iconic Chandni Chowk is getting a makeover. German Ambassador to India tweets video||A tweet by Walter J. Lindner, German Ambassador to India, has sparked a chatter among people on Twitter. Lindner took to the micro-blogging site to share a video of one of the most iconic places of Delhi, Chandni Chowk, getting a facelift.“Do you recognize this walkway?” he tweeted and chances are if the video is shown to you without context, it may take you more than one glance to identify this famous shopping street. “Yes, it’s Delhi’s iconic #ChandniChowk. Once full of cars, rikshaws & noise, it is getting a facelift & being turned into a traffic-free zone! A great transforms & initiative expected to be completed by November,” he added.The video opens with Lindner talking about him standing in the iconic market. Then he goes on to praise the initiative of giving the place a makeover. The empty streets on Chandni Chowk, which are completely different from the image one associates with of the place, may leave you surprised.Do you recognize this walkway? Yes, it’s Delhi’s iconic #chandnichowk. Once full of cars, rikshaws & noise, it is getting a facelift & being turned into a traffic-free zone! A great transforms & initiave expected to be completed by November. 🇮🇳🇩🇪 pic.twitter.com/2ZDz4Zwcf4With over 83,000 views, the post has also amassed more than 3,100 likes. Additionally, it has gathered close to 800 retweets – and counting. The video won people over and it’s clear from the comments they shared.Never thought I'd say this but looks like Chandni Chowk is gonna be lit! 🔥This is big, nice and satisfying. Can't wait to see a traffic free old Delhi.The empty roads behind you are still unbelievable.What do you think of the video?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/it-s-viral/delhi-s-iconic-chandni-chowk-is-getting-a-makeover-german-ambassador-to-india-tweets-video/story-SUbFlR05n99R46l8Sy9hZO.html
31-07-2020||City||RMOs on covid duty, pharmacy officers’ strike hit healthcare services in rural Punjab||Barnala/Sangrur With 750 Rural Medical Officers (RMOs) deployed on covid-19 duty and 1,100 pharmacy officers and Class-4 employees on strike, 1,186 rural dispensaries are lying non-functional in rural Punjab. The department of rural development and panchayats runs these dispensaries. The strike, seeking regularisation, has been on since June 19, with the doctors working with isolation wards, covid-testing, flu corners and district covid control rooms (etc) since the outbreak of the coronavirus.“There are no doctors and pharmacy officers in our dispensary. The poor cannot afford to go to a private doctors. We are harassed and helpless at the lack of services at these dispensaries,” said Daljit Singh, sarpanch of Lasoi village of Sangrur. Lasoi has a population of 6,500.Similarly, Shabir, husband of Rubina sarpanch Sherwani Kot village near Malerkotla, said, “Women are more the worst-affected. Even medicines are not available in local dispensaries. We have taken up the matter with senior officers, but to no avail.”Pharmacy officers and Class-4 employees allege they have been seeking regularisation for 14 years. “Pharmacy officers are getting Rs 10,000 and Class-4 employees, just Rs 4500 per month. We cannot survive on this salary. Despite our covid-19 duties, the government is not ready to listen to us,” said Brajesh Kumar, Barnala district chief of Rural Pharmacy Officer Association, Punjab.Dr Ashwani Singh, vice-president Rural Medical Officers Association, said, “There are 33 dispensaries in Barnala district and all 17 doctors have been deployed on covid-19 duties for the past four months. The government should send us to dispensaries.”Aam Aadmi Party MLA from Bhadaur Pirmal Singh Dhaula said he would raise the issue in the state assembly. Punjab panchayats and rural development minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa said the matter of regularisation was in his knowledge and efforts were on to resolve the issue.“We are willing to appoint them on regular basis, but there are some technical aspects. The issue will be addressed soon,” the minister added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rmos-on-covid-duty-pharmacy-officers-strike-hit-healthcare-services-in-rural-punjab/story-SH6bITysuWYqHthyHx5x1O.html
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||179 roads blocked due to landslides in Himachal||Around 179 roads were blocked and the water supply was disrupted in rural areas due to landslides triggered due to heavy rainfall in Himachal on Friday. Around 129 roads were blocked in Mandi, 37 in Kangra and six roads each in Shimla and Hamirpur zone. Officials say the roads are being cleared.The state meteorological department has issued a yellow warning for the middle and lower hills of the state for August 1, 3 and 4. Heavy rainfall is expected at isolated places.State meteorological department director Dr Manmohan Singh said rainfall is likely to continue throughout the state till August 6. A yellow warning is the least dangerous warning.Heavy rainfall took place at isolated places of Hamirpur and Sirmaur district while light to moderate rainfall took places throughout the state during the last 24 hours. No appreciable change was witnessed in maximum and minimum temperatures.Sujanpur Tira in Hamirpur district received 82 mm rain, the highest in the state, followed by Nagrota Suriyan, distirct Kangra, which received 63mm rain.Paonta Sahib in Sirmaur district received 33 mm rain, Narkanda received 29 mm rain, Pandoh 26mm, Mandi 20.3 mm, Palampur 18.8 mm while Shimla received 12.7mm rain, 6 mm rainfall was recorded in Solan and Rampur Bushahr while Dharamshala received 4.2mm rain.Maximum temperature in state’s capital Shimla was 22.5°C while Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district recorded a temperature of 24.2°C. The maximum temperatures in Manali, Dalhousie, and Dharamshala were 21.6°C, 21.4°C and 28.4°C, respectively.The maximum temperatures in Solan, Bilaspur, Hamirpur and Una were 27°C, 30.5°C, 30.2°C and 31.8°C, respectively. Kalpa in Kinnaur district recorded a maximum temperature of 22.2°C.Kufri was the coldest in the state with a minimum temperature of 13.3°C and Mandi was the hottest at 32.1°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/179-roads-blocked-due-to-landslides-in-himachal/story-Mltfa6DusxgOMGFD7p4OLL.html
31-07-2020||City||Interview: PSEB chairman Yog Raj says going digital is part of effective education today||IF CLASSES DO NOT RESUME BY NOVEMBER OR DECEMBER, HOW WILL THE BOARD EVALUATE STUDENTS? We will have a look at the situation by August-end. The pandemic has transformed the centuries-old, chalk–talk teaching model to one driven by technology. It is essential to continue learning. Open-source digital learning solutions and Learning Management Software will be adopted, so that teachers can go online. Building capacity of students is essential.PARENTS ARE SEEKING REFUND OF EXAM FEE. Neither the board nor the parents are at fault, and exams have been cancelled across the country. I will hold a meeting with the officers before any decision. HOW WILL YOU INCREASE TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY IN THE EXAMINATION SYSTEM? Digital tools can help in achieving transparency, efficiency and accountability in the examination system, but public access to information is key. I will make sure that with open data, officials and the public-at-large can monitor educational progress. Bottlenecks and malpractices will be dealt with. HOW DO YOU SEE THE NEW EDUCATION POLICY? I have not read it in detail. I believe it is the state government’s prerogative on how to implement it. DO YOU FORESEE ANY PROBLEMS IN ITS IMPLEMENTATION? I will not like to comment. CURRICULUM NEEDS CONSTANT REVISION AND SOMETIMES CONTROVERSIES ARISE. WHAT ARE YOUR PLANS? Information and experiences should be added, deleted or adjusted to the curriculum to reflect prevailing beliefs or findings. PUNJAB HAS ADARSH SCHOOLS, THEN NORMAL GOVERNMENT SCHOOLS AND MERITORIOUS SCHOOLS. IS THIS MULTIPLICITY DESIRABLE? The idea is to cater to children, according to caliber. Adarsh schools provide admission to brilliant students, even if they are poor. I will check on these schools. On handing these schools back to the government, I will consult my officers. PSEB IS IN A FINANCIAL MESS. RECENTLY, IT PROPOSED SCRAPPING OF 400 POSTS. ANY REVIVAL PLAN IN MIND? I will first assess our finances and then control expenses. I will take up the matter with the state government and request for financial assistance. We will not compromise with the future of students. After approval from the government, any recruitment we do will be transparent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/interview-pseb-chairman-yog-raj-says-going-digital-is-part-of-effective-education-today/story-SdnKVGWIT40JwqoQKXxmeI.html
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||Sports fraternity of Punjab, Haryana mourns death of sports psychologist NS Mann||Chandigarh: The sports fraternity of Punjab and Haryana on Friday mourned the recent death of NS Mann, the founder member of the Indian Sports Psychology Association and a former chairman of the Panjab University’s physical education department. He was 76 and passed away on July 25 after battling cancer for five years. He is survived by his wife and two sons. A condolence meeting will be held at his younger son Amanendra’s house in Sector 22, Chandigarh, on Sunday. Mann was associated with the PU’s football team as a manager for more than three decades since the early ’80s. FULL OF POSITIVE ENERGY: PLAYERS “Professor Mann was a great promoter of sports. In 1985, when we won the All India Inter-University Championship, my first big break in the sport, I was the skipper and Mann sir was the team manager. He was full of positive energy and would go the extra mile to support players. The sports fraternity of India, especially Punjab and Haryana. will miss him,” said alumnus Emeka Ezeugo, who went on represent Nigeria in the 1992 Olympics and 1994 FIFA World Cup. Ezeugo’s grades fell in the second year making him ineligible for the inter-university meet in 1985. To get him in the side, a supplementary test was taken and Mann ensured that the result was declared the same day, and Ezeugo was able to play. The university won the All-India title and Ezeugo was the player of the tournament. “Mann sahib was a well organised leader, always there to support players. He has a gentle word for every situation. May his soul rest in peace,” said another Nigerian footballer Chibuzor Nwakanma, who was part of the 1985 PU team and later played professional football for Kolkota giant East Bengal. PILLAR OF PU PHYSICAL EDUCATION DEPARTMENT Mann was a former PU fellow and remained a subject expert at academic bodies of many university and University Grants Commission. He remained president of the Sports Psychology Association of India from 2012-16 and was also a Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) president in 1996-97. “He has been a pillar of the physical education department of PU. I was his student and got the opportunity to start my teaching career when he was the department chairman. He had supervised more than 40 PhD scholars,” says Gurmeet Singh, the present department chairman. Mann remained a resource person for solidarity seminars of the International Olympic Committee. Both his sons are also in the field of physical education. The elder, Bhupinder, is the sports in-charge of Yadavindra Public School, Mohali, while younger son Amanendra is an international shooting referee and professor of physical education at DAV College, Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sports-fraternity-of-punjab-haryana-mourns-death-of-sports-psychologist-ns-mann/story-oPdccolNliVyutcvANadSJ.html
31-07-2020||Pune||In first visit to city since Covid-19 outbreak… CM Uddhav Thackeray says PMC must take lead in ensuring bed availability||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, on Thursday, visited Pune and reviewed the Covid-19 situation, with public representatives expressing their dis-satisfaction about the handling of the pandemic in the city. During the meeting with the representatives and officials, Thackeray instructed the administration to keep bed information updated and to work to bring down the Covid-19 case rate, along with the case fatality rate in Pune. The city, as of Wednesday recorded 55,035 progressive positive cases and 1,358 Covid-related deaths. This was Thackeray’s first visit to the city after becoming chief minister and many hoped that he would make an announcement about additional facilities for the city’s Covid-19 battle. The chief minister suggested the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) take the lead in increasing the number of beds considering the rising number of cases. He also called for the expediting of the process to build jumbo facilities, on the lines of Mumbai. He asked private laboratories to first give the test reports of patients to the civic body, so as to ensure the concerned authorities treat the patients. “In some cases, it was seen that patients died due to non-availability of beds as they were initially reluctant to go to hospital. To avoid this, private labs should first hand over reports of every positive person to the municipal corporation, which can ensure availability of beds for patients,” said Thackeray. On the PMC’s demand for funds, the chief minister said: “It is natural that municipal corporations are asking for funds. Not only Pune, but the demand is coming from all the municipal corporations. The state government is also asking the centre to help Maharashtra. On behalf of the state government, I will definitely give financial help to Pune and other all the cities.” During the meeting, MLAs and MPs mainly raised problem of bed management and inadequate infrastructure in fighting the Covid crisis.Questions asked, questions remain “There were multiple issues we raised in front of chief minister. While he has asked the administration to improve coordination, there was nothing substantial that emerged out of his visit to the city,” said Pune’s member of Parliament Girish Bapat. BJP state unit president Chandrakant Patil, who represents Kothrud, urged Thackeray to instruct the administration to ensure better coordination among all agencies, while Pune mayor, Murlidhar Mohol, said private hospitals are not co-operating by not updating the proper information about the vacant beds. “Even the municipal corporation is short of money and the Maharashtra government must co-operate with the municipal corporation,” Mohol said.BJP MLA Siddhartha Shirole, who was vocal about the CM not visiting the city in its hour of crisis, said “The chief minister visited Pune for the first time during the pandemic, but not much has come out of the visit. During the meeting, I raised the question of the jumbo facility as the administration has not completed the process of tendering yet. There was no answer, though.”NCP MLA Sunil Tingre also raised the issue of overcharging by hospitals, a common complaint by patients in Pune. “Private hospitals are charging exorbitant rates from patients as there are more patients and less number of beds in the city. Some housing societies have showed an interest in offering their clubhouses, which we need, as Covid care centres,” said Tingre. BOXX What CM wants Pune to do PMC to take lead in bed management Expedite construction of jumbo Covid care facilities Private hospitals must regularly update bed availability Private labs must submit positive tests to PMC first||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/in-first-visit-to-city-since-covid-19-outbreak-cm-uddhav-thackeray-says-pmc-must-take-lead-in-ensuring-bed-availability/story-u2R96ZXorWyeDa6jQRqTPL.html
31-07-2020||Delhi||Sisodia tried to ‘scare’ people, claimed Delhi Covid-19 cases will reach 5.5 lakh by July 31: BJP||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia had tried to “scare” people by claiming that Covid-19 cases in Delhi will reach 5.5 lakh by July 31, but the situation was brought under control with the intervention of Union Home Minister Amit Shah, the city BJP unit said on Friday.In June, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader had said that Delhi was likely to have 5.5 lakh novel coronavirus cases by the end of July and 80,000 beds would be needed to accommodate patients.Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta in a press conference asked the Arvind Kejriwal government to answer why it had tried to “scare” people with Sisodia claiming that there would be 5.5 lakh coronavirus cases by July 31.There was no immediate reaction from Sisodia or the AAP on the issue.The national capital has seen a drop in the number of active cases over the past few days. On Thursday, Delhi had 10,743 active cases, down from 10,770 on Wednesday, 10,887 on Tuesday, 10,994 on Monday and 11,904 on Sunday. The number of active cases was 27,007 on July 1, according to health department bulletins.“The situation was beyond control of the Delhi government and when Home Minister Amit Shah intervened in mid-June, the cases of Covid-19 started declining, bed availability improved and now the Kejriwal government is taking credit for it,” Gupta claimed.Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has been saying that the Covid-19 situation has been brought under control for now with the “combined efforts” of the Delhi government, the Centre and the two-crore people of the city, among others.The total count of coronavirus cases as on Thursday was 1,34,403 in Delhi, of which 10,743 were active cases, 3,396 deaths and the rest 1,19,724 patients have either recovered, been discharged or migrated. The Ministry of Home Affairs had issued several guidelines on Covid-19 management in Delhi, including increase in testing and mapping of containment zones, in mid-June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sisodia-tried-to-scare-people-claimed-delhi-covid-cases-will-reach-5-5-lakh-by-july-3-amit-shah/story-a60xLwLEJvTdEIE5sKn8HI.html
31-07-2020||Pune||Royal Bengal tigress dies of old age at Pune’s Katraj zoo||PUNE A 16.5-year-old Royal Bengal tigress breathed her last at the Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park and Research Centre, Katraj on Thursday. Nandini was born at the Peshwe Park zoo in the city in 2004. . “Tigers draw a lot of visitors to the zoo and are very popular with children as well as adults. At least 16 lakh people visit the zoo to see the animals each year, but due Covid, the zoo is closed since March 14, 2020,” said Dr Rajkumar Jadhav, director of the Rajiv Gandhi zoo. “She died due to old age at 9.30 am. We tried everything possible to make her comfortable,” said Dr N Nighoj, from the zoo. “The average age for a tiger is 15 years and we are awaiting the post mortem report,” he added. Nandini is survived by her brother Tanaji, also 16.5-years old. Her sister Damini died last year at the Udaipur Zoo. Three years ago, the zoo lost a white tiger named ‘Kaif’, after a long illness, at the age of 14. Kaif was brought from Aurangabad to Pune in 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/royal-bengal-tigress-dies-of-old-age-at-pune-s-katraj-zoo/story-R7KLIPQQM77VytEHFoFHSI.html
31-07-2020||Pune||Pune mayor alleges 400 unaccounted suspected Covid deaths||Mayor Murlidhar Mohol, on Thursday, alleged that there are at least 400 suspected Covid deaths in July, that have gone unaccounted for. Mohol’s allegation came on the day chief minister Uddhav Thackeray visited the city. According to Mohol, as per ICMR guidelines, there is no need to conduct the Covid-19 test on a deceased person. “As per my information, every day, almost 12 suspected deaths are being recorded at Sassoon Hospital alone and there are many such cases in other hospitals. Post the death, when doctors carry out an X-ray test on the body, there are clear symptoms of Covid,” the mayor said. The city, till Wednesday, recorded 55,035 positive cases and 1,358 Covid-related deaths. Mohol said he needed to put this in front of the authorities to save lives. “I don’t want to blame anyone for this situation, but I need to put this fact before the authorities and steps should be taken to save lives. It is also negligence at the citizens’ level as they are rushing to hospital at the last stage,” the mayor said.Reacting to Mohol’s allegations, doctors in the city while the fact may be true, the numbers quoted look exaggerated. Dr Sunil Rao, medical director of Sahyadri hospital, said, “It is true that such suspected deaths are occurring, but the number quoted by the mayor is looking a little exaggerated. We have six Covid hospitals in the city and such suspected deaths are hardly two or three in a month. Suspected Covid deaths are there, but the numbers will be less.” Despite repeated attempts divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar, municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar and PMC health chief Ramchandra Hankare did not respond to calls and messages till the time of this report going to press. Another officer from PMC requesting anonymity said, “There are suspected deaths, but the number would be lower. As the number of critical cases increased in last two to three weeks, such cases have increased mainly in this period.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-mayor-alleges-400-unaccounted-suspected-covid-deaths/story-aofrb0X64QMsiObz5yu7kK.html
31-07-2020||Pune||Pune police solve senior citizen’s lockdown woes with just a phone call; 838 calls in just 4 months||Pune police’s senior citizen helpline number 1090 has received 838 calls over the past four months (April 1 to July 15) to seek counselling, help or even just casual chats.The lockdown necessitated due to the Covid-19 infection, has been tough for many senior citizens in the city, whose population, the Pune police estimates to be around 19,000. Doctors have been stressing on senior citizens, above 65 years, as Covid-19 high-risk groups and with measures such as staying indoors and physical social distancing key to their health, the isolation has taken a toll on their mental well being, say senior citizens. This has led to many senior citizens relying on such helpline numbers to fight the loneliness.“We have received over 838 calls from senior citizens between April 1 and July 15, of which 513 calls were simply because they want to talk to someone and spend some time fighting the loneliness,” said assistant police inspector (API) Swati Kedar, who works for the Bharosa cell, where they have a dedicated number for senior citizens. The Pune police have identified and provided 18,050 photo identity cards to senior citizens in the city, each with the emergency number, blood group, and address.The senior citizen helpline number 1090 has been buzzing since April with many of the senior citizens calling to seek household help, getting medicines, requesting for food delivery, medicines and aiding them with the bank or pension-related work, according to police officials. The police recently held a training session on emotional intelligence for all the staff at Bharosa Cell, to understand the psychology of the senior citizens during the pandemic.“The police office call centre for old age people is a very good and noble initiative. When officers speak with affection with parental people their morale gets boosted, this definitely acts as an immuno booster and helps in fighting the present pandemic,” said Dr Ravindra Chhajed , consulting physician and intensivist at Harsh hospital, Bibwewadi and Ruby hall Wanowrie.Head constable Jayashree Jadhav, who devotes some time to answering such calls, is back to work after a seven-month break after an accident. “I have been getting calls on my personal number since I was on medical leave, and I simply could not turn these senior members away. They need someone to speak to them when they feel lonely. I remember a conversation with 84-year-old former army personnel, who had lost his wife recently and his son was also serving in the army. He kept on insisting to speak with my superiors, but I tried to explain to him that she was busy with another assignment. We ended up speaking for over an hour and then, he thanked me for keeping him company.”Jadhav also narrates how the work from home culture is also alienating people, even when they stay in the same house. “While at work, I received a call from a 76-year-old man who needed help with the e-pass. He wanted to travel to his place in Mangalvedha as his son with whom he lived had no time to even talk to him and he was bored. I spent more than an hour talking to him about his favourite things and eased him out of his boredom.”“Loneliness is something that all senior citizens find difficult to deal with, among other things like living arrangements, finance, and health. This causes them a lot of anxiety and isolation, especially among those living alone,” said Swati Kedar.Some senior citizens, with police help, have also learnt to rely on technology or are adapting and evolving with the changing times. Sunita Khandekar, an 81-year–old living near Karnatak School, Erandwane, said, “Though I live alone, I have several friends. However, I am stuck at home due to this pandemic. I needed help to go to my sister-in-law’s place as she had fractured her leg and her 91-year–old husband was taking care of her,” said the retired teacher. The police, as well as the local politicians, came to her rescue and she spent part of her time looking after her sister– in –law. She also learned things like downloading and watching interesting videos on Youtube. “I enjoy watching videos on interesting topics and spend long hours chatting on the phone nowadays during this pandemic, which has helped me get out of my boredom,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-police-solve-senior-citizen-s-lockdown-woes-with-just-a-phone-call-838-calls-in-just-4-months/story-ARuF3qciHVwPiV6rTYgyYJ.html
31-07-2020||Pune||Businesses in Pune Camp limp back to normalcy after heavy losses||Businesses in the Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) are slowly limping back to normal after suffering huge losses in the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. The businesses are continuing to report an average daily loss of 10 to 15 per cent after the 10-day lockdown was lifted by PCB administration on July 19. The establishments on the popular MG road, East Street, Chhatrapati Shivaji market have opened, the business is lacklustre with not many buyers stepping out for shopping. Kayani Bakery owner Rustom Kayani said, travel restrictions are still at 50 per cent of what they were previously. “However I am happy and grateful that even during this situation globally, we have survived not just as business but retention of all staff and workers, adapting to the safety precautionary norms. We have now accepted the new world after Covid,” Kayani said. Even local residents have preferred to stay indoors and not many people are seen on the roads. The hotels, malls, fashion street and other entertainment-related businesses are yet to re-open in the Pune cantonment area. The commercial establishments on MG Road, East street, Clover centre, Aurora Towers, Centre got some respite after consumers were seen visiting readymade cloth shops, hosiery and cutlery shops, sweetmeat and wafer shops. However, shopkeepers claim that the business is not enough after re-opening. Similarly, the goldsmiths and jewellers also opened their shops eagerly waiting for customers but complained that it would take another four to five months for the businesses to see normalcy. “The business was impacted during previous lockdowns but it had come on track a month ago when the unlocking began. However, the recent 10-day closure has led to problems. We had booked air tickets and called our staffers but because of the unannounced lockdown, we had to cancel the booking. Festivals are around the corner but the business is very low and we are hopeful that things will change in the next four to five months,” said Mahavir Oswal of Kalyani jewellers, and Centre street. Raju Abhang, a prominent vegetable vendor at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Market said, “Eighty per cent of shops are closed. We had customers from Kharadi, Kalyani nagar and other places who used to come to buy exotic vegetables here in Camp. Now, they are no longer coming leading to losses and whatever income is being generated is paltry and making survival difficult.” “The lockdown has destroyed the market. We pay a license fee, GST, power bills, professional tax, income tax to the government and the board administration but the illegal hawkers who are occupying the road outside do not pay taxes and take away our business. In the Covid-19 crisis, their numbers have multiplied and we are sustaining huge losses. PCB must act against them at the earliest,” said Sharad Borate, former president of Chhatrapati Shivaji market stallholders association who owns a 100-year old shop at the iconic market. Wahid Momin, a chicken wholesaler said, “The entire market was shut down when fly night chicken sellers set up shops in lanes and by lanes. They looted the public and charged them extra for chicken. Such illegal hawkers must be booked under the essential services act. Currently, we are operating at 20 per cent of our capacity as the business has taken a hit.” However, strict social distancing norms are being maintained at the Chhatrapati Shivaji market and the board administration has appointed special uniform guards to check buyers at the entry and exits to prevent the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/businesses-in-pune-camp-limp-back-to-normalcy-after-heavy-losses/story-a4nFG1cirNvXxkGuwBIlDN.html
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||After argument, Punjab Police ASI fires at colleague with service rifle in Moga||Moga: An assistant sub-inspector (ASI) shot at another ASI with his service rifle following an argument near the Moga senior superintendent of police’s office on Thursday night. The police arrested the accused, Sukhraj Singh, 52, and booked him for attempt to murder, while his colleague Kirpal Singh ducked eight bullets from the 9 mm sterling carbine (sub-machine gun) to escape unhurt. Both ASIs Sukhraj Singh and Kirpal Singh were on security duty at the district treasury when the incident took place. “After having an argument, Sukhraj opened fire on Kirpal with his service rifle. Fortunately, Kirpal ducked and dodged eight bullets by lying on the floor in time. Sukhraj fled leaving his weapon behind. He was later arrested,” Moga deputy superintendent of police Barjinder Singh Bhullar said. A case was registered under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code and the Arms Act at the Moga city police station. Police sources said Sukhraj Singh has been suffering from depression. In 2007, when he was posted as a security guard of a political leader, unidentified persons snatched his service rifle, which was never traced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/after-argument-punjab-police-asi-fires-at-colleague-with-service-rifle-in-moga/story-E1jzF8pQGoVq7RrfLqx0QM.html
31-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi Police prohibits flying of UAVs, hot air balloons till Independence Day||Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava on Friday issued an order prohibiting the flying of “sub-conventional aerial platforms” like UAVs, paragliders, and hot air balloons in the national capital till August 15 citing security reasons, officials said. The order shall remain in force for a period of 16 days from Friday till August 15, the police said.According to the order, it has been reported that certain criminals, anti-social elements or terrorists, inimical to India may pose a threat to the safety of the general public, dignitaries and vital installations by using “sub-conventional aerial platforms” like paragliders, Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs), remotely piloted aircraft, hot air balloons, quadcopters or para-jumping from aircraft etc. Therefore, the Delhi Police has prohibited the flying of “sub-conventional aerial platforms” over Delhi on the occasion of Independence Day celebrations and doing so shall be punishable under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code, the order stated. The copies of the orders should be affixed on the notice boards of the offices of all DCsP/Addl DCsP/ACsP, Tehsil, all police stations and offices of the New Delhi Municipal Corporation, North Delhi Municipal Corporation, East Delhi Municipal Corporation, South Delhi Municipal Corporation, Public Works Department, Delhi Development Authority, Delhi Cantonment Board, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-police-prohibits-flying-of-uavs-hot-air-balloons-till-independence-day/story-sfcsI5TaDs0EDOSPOXLb1O.html
31-07-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Public gatherings banned in Bhiwandi, Palghar on Bakrid||The civic body in Bhiwandi city of Maharashtra has urged citizens to celebrate Bakrid at their homes and not assemble in public places, especially mosques, to prevent the spread of coronavirus, an official said on Friday.The gathering of people in large numbers is not advisable in light of the Covid-19 pandemic, said Dr Pankaj Ashiya, municipal commissioner of the Bhiwandi Nizampur Municipal Corporation.Issuing an order to the effect, he also appealed to the citizens to conduct the ‘qurbani’ ritual in a symbolic manner during the celebrations on August 1.Palghar district collector Dr Kailas Shinde also issued a similar order banning Bakrid celebrations in public places.Meanwhile, the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) revoked the permission given to Bail Bazar locality, where cattle were being sold for the upcoming festival.The concession was revoked as citizens were seen flouting the social distancing norms and violating the lockdown, the KDMC chief stated in an order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-public-gatherings-banned-in-bhiwandi-palghar-on-bakrid/story-WYgtMVzMKWtDdhZO8QEimN.html
31-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi HC dismisses ex-Cong councillor Ishrat Jahan’s plea in UAPA case||Delhi High Court on Friday dismissed the plea of former Congress councillor Ishrat Jahan challenging a trial court order that granted an extension of 60 days’ time for filing a charge sheet against her in a case related to northeast Delhi violence. The court finds no merit in the petition, it said.A bench of Justice Suresh Kumar Kait while passing the order stated, “I am of the view that Public Prosecutor had moved an application, for extension of time to file a charge sheet, after going through the whole matrix of the case and after satisfying himself as per the law as enumerated in the second limb of Section 43(D)(2)(b) of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967. Learned Judge also after going through the facts and circumstances and mandate of provisions of the law of the Act mentioned above and after recording his satisfaction had passed the impugned order. Therefore, I am of the view that there is no illegality or perversity in the said order.” Representing police, Delhi Government’s senior standing counsel Rahul Mehra had earlier told the court that the investigators have enough material evidence to show that the extension given by the court was lawfully correct.Delhi Police, in the status report, submitted that the reasons for extension only means there was good and sufficient cause for the same and added that it is intended to check a casual or off-hand approach in seeking the extension.A bare look at the record suggests that the requisite conditions are sufficiently and satisfactorily attracted and there is a concrete and definite reason for the extension, the police said and added that the petitioner fails to demonstrate how the stated reasons did not meet the test.Jahan, through advocates Lalit Valecha and Manu Sharma, approached the High Court seeking to set aside the trial court order dated June 15 which has granted an extension of 60 days to the police to file a charge sheet in the matter.Jahan, in her plea, said that the order is erroneous, bad in law, and wrong on facts and the same is based on surmises and conjectures and dehorns the settled principle of law.“The same is against the democratic and fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution of India. And the order deserves to be set aside on this ground alone. Speedy and fair investigation are fundamental tenets of the criminal justice system,” the plea said.It said that the application filed by Delhi Police is an abuse of the legal process as the same fails to make out any legal or factual basis that justifies the extension of time.The petition also raised questions over the addition of serious sections against Jahan as she has been falsely implicated in the matter and she was only a supporter of the ongoing peaceful protest.According to the FIR and investigation agency, Jahan was allegedly trying to incite people during the violence that took place in northeast Delhi in February this year by giving out provocative speeches during the protests against the Citizen Amendment Act (CAA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-hc-dismisses-ex-cong-councillor-ishrat-jahan-s-plea-in-uapa-case/story-2S1ndDbhhVWo0o5TWK6rnJ.html
31-07-2020||City||Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, cancels entrance exams to undergraduate courses||Ludhiana: Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) has cancelled the entrance exams for admission to undergraduate courses for the 2020-21 academic session in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. PAU registrar RS Sidhu said the university has cancelled the common entrance test (CET) and agriculture aptitude test (AAT) this year. In addition, the entrance exam for the MSc five-year integrated programme has been cancelled. The examination fee will be refunded to all candidates who had applied for the entrance tests. The admission to graduate programmes at PAU will be based on the evaluation of marks obtained in Classes 10 and 12. The last date for applying with late fee has been extended to August 7, 2020. Aspiring candidates will now need to pay Rs 2,120 for the prospectus and Rs 1,000 as late fee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-agricultural-university-ludhiana-cancels-entrance-exams-to-undergraduate-courses/story-iaEytDA3ThVBBxdVO2HpjK.html
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM orders magisterial probe into 21 suspected spurious liquor deaths in three districts||Chandigarh: Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday ordered a magisterial inquiry by the Jalandhar divisional commissioner into the suspicious deaths of 21 people allegedly due to the consumption of spurious liquor in Amritsar, Batala and Tarn Taran. One person is reported to be critical in the suspected hooch tragedy. The inquiry will be conducted by the Jalandhar divisional commissioner along with joint excise and taxation commissioner, Punjab, and superintendents of police, investigation, of the districts concerned, an official spokesperson said. The chief minister assured of strict action against anyone found complicit in the case, in which a woman has so far been arrested. He also directed the police to launch a search operation to crack down on any spurious liquor manufacturing units that may be operating in the state. Balwinder Kaur, a resident of Muchhal village in Amritsar district, has been arrested and booked under Sections 304 of the Indian Penal Code; Sections 61/1/14 of the Excise Act at Tarsikka police station. The investigation is in progress under the special investigation team (SIT) constituted by the Amritsar Rural SSP from where the first cases were reported. The post-mortem of four victims, Jaswinder Singh, Kashmir Singh, Kirpal Singh and Jaswant Singh, is being conducted today to ascertain the cause of the deaths. SUSPICIOUS DEATHS SINCE JULY 29 Punjab director general of police Dinkar Gupta said the first five deaths were reported from Mucchal and Tangra villages under the jurisdiction of the Tarsikka police station in Amritsar Rural on the night of July 29. On July 30 evening, two more persons died in suspicious circumstances in Muchhal, while one person was hospitalised in critical condition and later succumbed at Sri Guru Ramdas Hospital, from where he was referred by Dr Sarabjit Kaur Hospital, Tangra. Later, two more deaths were from reported from Mucchal village, while another two people reportedly died in Batala city, also due to spurious liquor consumption. On July 31, five more people died in Batala, taking the toll in the city to seven, while one person has been referred to Civil Hospital, Batala, in a critical condition. Four more similarly suspicious deaths have also been reported from Tarn Taran. The deceased have been identified as Mangal Singh, Balwinder Singh, Dalbir Singh, Gurpreet Singh, Kashmir Singh, Kaka Singh, Kirpal Singh, Jaswant Singh and Joga Singh, all residents of Muchhal village; Baldev Singh, a resident of Tangra village in Amritsar district. The other deceased are Buta Ram, Bhinda, Riku Singh, Kala, Kalu, Billa and Jatinder, all residents of Batala city. Those who died in Tarn Taran were identified as Sahib Singh, Harban Singh, Sukhdev Singh and Dharam Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-cm-orders-magisterial-probe-into-21-suspected-spurious-liquor-deaths-in-three-districts/story-g3v0ZcbllBWwvTHggu9LyH.html
31-07-2020||City||Six more Covid-19 patients in Himachal, state now has 1,095 active cases||Shimla: Six people tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday, taking the total tally of coronavirus cases in the state to 2,512. The state now has 1,095 active cases. Four people tested positive in Una district, while one case each was reported in Kangra and Chamba district. Special secretary, health, Nipun Jindal said so far, 12 Covid deaths have been reported in state, while 1,388 patients have recovered. Solan remains the worst-hit district with 628 cases, followed by Kangra with 453 cases. Sirmaur has 327 cases, Hamirpur 304, Una 202, Shimla 165, Mandi 157, Chamba 104, Bilaspur 88, Kinnaur 45, and Kullu has 35 cases. Lahaul and Spiti remains the least affected district with only four cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-more-covid-19-patients-in-himachal-state-now-has-1-095-active-cases/story-g5YI1UCH3QZy43VMooZKHO.html
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab, Haryana CMs pay tribute to freedom fighter Udham Singh on 81st martyrdom day||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and his Haryana counterpart Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday paid rich tribute to freedom fighter Udham Singh on his 81st martyrdom day.The revolutionary was hanged at Pentonville Prison in London on July 31, 1940 for killing Michael O’Dwyer to avenge the massacre of hundreds of Indians at Jallianwala Bagh.In a tweet, Amarinder Singh said, “I join the nation in paying humble tribute to our great freedom fighter Shaheed-e-Azam Sardar Udham Singh Ji.” “His patriotism and sacrifice will continue to inspire generations of Indians,” he said.Haryana Chief Minister M L Khattar also paid tribute to the freedom fighter.“I pay my rich tributes to brave son of the soil and great revolutionary Sardar Udham Singh Ji on his martyrdom day. The country will always remember his supreme sacrifice,” Khattar tweeted.Amarinder Singh, in his tweet, informed that work on Shaheed-e-Azam’s memorial at Sunam in Sangrur district of Punjab would be completed within a year. Notably, the Punjab government has also decided to construct a museum to showcase the articles of the legendary revolutionary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-haryana-cms-pay-tribute-to-freedom-fighter-udham-singh-on-81st-martyrdom-day/story-Mh1GJ7WhBjhJnuAeausPmN.html
31-07-2020||Pune||Pune reports 3,658 coronavirus cases, tally mounts to 81,771||The Pune district reported 3,658 new coronavirus cases on Thursday, taking the case tally to 81,771, a health official said.The death toll due to the pandemic in the district rose to 1,922 with 64 patients dying, he said.“Of the 3,658 new cases, 2,402 are from the Pune Municipal Corporation limits where 51,629 cases have been recorded so far,” the official said.Click here for coronavirus coverage “However, 1,315 patients were also discharged from the hospitals on recovery,” he added.893 new coronavirus cases were found in the Pimpri Chinchwad area where the case count now stands at 20,686.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-reports-3-658-coronavirus-cases-tally-mounts-to-81-771/story-lREXj2rQjUK4n9acatWmTN.html
31-07-2020||Bangalore||‘Classic case of slander: BJP sends legal notices to Siddaramaiah, DK Shivakumar over Covid-19 scam allegation||The BJP has issued legal notices to Siddaramaiah and DK Shivakumar, Congress leaders in Karnataka, for what the ruling party said were comments harming its reputation by alleging irregularities in the management of the coronavirus pandemic in the state.The two senior Congress leaders had last week alleged a “Rs 2,000 crore plus” scam in purchase of Covid-19 related equipment and demanded a judicial probe into the matter.Siddaramiah, the Leader of opposition in Karnataka assembly, and Congress’ state unit president DK Shivakumar addressed a press conference claiming that the state government had spent Rs 4,167 crore till date to combat the pandemic. Also read | DK Shivakumar: Congress troubleshooter with uneasy relationship with partyThey had alleged that more than Rs 2,000 crore of the amount spent had been siphoned off through corrupt practices by inflating the prices of equipment like ventilators, personal protection equipment (PPE) kits, sanitisers, gloves and other material. They also released some documents which they said showed that the material had been procured at artificially high prices.The BS Yediyurappa-led BJP had government hit back, saying the allegations were false and baseless. Ravi Kumar N, the BJP’s general secretary in Karnataka, slapped the notices on Thursday through a lawyer. “All the allegations in the press statement made by you, have been made intentionally with a view to damage the reputation of the Bharatiya Janata Party in which my client is the General Secretary and the same is a classic case of slander which constitutes both civil and criminal offence of defamation,” the notice said.“My client instructs me to state that the baseless allegations made in the press statement have caused immense harm to the reputation of my client,” it said.Also read: ‘I congratulate BJP,’ tweets DK Shivakumar after arrest, says will emerge victorious“In these circumstances, the present notice is being issued with a demand from my client that you forthwith withdraw all the allegations by issuing an appropriate statement and unequivocally tender an unconditional apology. Failing which, my client will be constrained to take appropriate legal action against you,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/classic-case-of-slander-bjp-sends-legal-notices-to-siddaramaiah-dk-shivakumar-over-covid-19-scam-allegation/story-4r9TOG9VtBMgx6kpGAyr2J.html
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||SC junks RInfra petition against appointment of sole arbitrator||The Supreme Court on Thursday dismissed a special leave petition filed by Reliance Infrastructure Limited (RInfra), the engineering procurement and construction contractor for two thermal power stations in Haryana, challenging the appointment of former Haryana chief secretary Promilla Issar as the sole arbitrator. The former chief secretary was appointed as the sole arbitrator by the state government in July 2016 for adjudication of disputes between RInfra and Haryana Power Generation Corporation Limited (HPGCL). Since the former chief secretary was also appointed as the arbitrator by the state government for the ongoing arbitration between HPGCL and RInfra against the contract for Yamunanagar thermal power plant, the former recommended her name for appointment as the sole arbitrator for Hisar thermal power plant. “It is submitted that the contract for Yamunanagar and Hisar power plants are quite similar and the contractual provisions are almost the same. Promilla Issar has gained sufficient background of the contractual provisions and has obtained a fair knowledge of the complex issues involved in the arbitration matter. It would be preferable to appoint her as the sole arbitrator in this case,” HPGCL managing director had written in July 2016. RInfra challenged her appointment before the Punjab and Haryana high court on the grounds that the appointment of a former chief secretary was violative of fifth and seventh schedules of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act. The schedules pertained to arbitrator’s relationship with the parties or counsel. Dismissing the petition, the HC quoted from an arbitration case order of the high court to hold that the appointment of former chief secretary is not void ab-initio for the reason being that there was no financial, business, or professional relationship among a former chief secretary and the state of Haryana or HPGCL. The HC in its order said that a disclosure was required to be made by the arbitrator as she was a former Haryana chief secretary. “A disclosure would be required for that engagement constituted the existence of a direct past relationship between the arbitrator and the state of Haryana which relationship even if not financial, business or professional would fall within the ambit of the category constituted by the words other kind. The disclosure, however, was not necessary in view of the circumstances mentioned in the fifth schedule. It is necessary for an arbitrator to disclose a relationship past or present as an employee, consultant or advisor,” HC said. The arbitrator as well as the state of Haryana has expressly disclosed their past relationship. Subsequently, RInfra had challenged the HC order before the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sc-junks-rinfra-petition-against-appointment-of-sole-arbitrator/story-VVSBGoIG5OknRxELY8gunI.html
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||SYL canal completion: Haryana may consult attorney general on SC observations regarding CM’s meeting||The Haryana government may consult attorney general KK Venugopal to decide further course of action with regards to the implementation of Supreme Court’s January 15, 2002, and June 4, 2004, orders to complete the remaining portion of the Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal by Punjab. While the apex court during a July 28 hearing observed that “let the chief ministers of both the states meet to find out the solution if any, else there is a decree which has to be executed”, the written SC orders, made public on Thursday, stating that “a meeting of various stakeholders be convened at the high level and the outcome of the same, if any, be informed to this court” has created a predicament for the state government. “Since there seems to be some variance in the oral and written orders of the apex court, we are contemplating taking the advice of the attorney general who represented the Centre in the virtual court to clarify the SC order,” said an official. Advocate general BR Mahajan, however, said that Haryana’s law officer Anish Gupta who was present in the virtual court during the July 28 hearing has clearly conveyed the oral observations of the apex court regarding convening of a meeting of chief ministers of both the states. Mahajan said in his opinion, a meeting of chief ministers of Haryana and Punjab has to be convened to find out a solution. The outcome of the meeting has to be indicated to the apex court on the next date of hearing in the third week of August so that matter can proceed further for execution of the decree.Additional advocate general (AAG) Anish Gupta in a communication to the advocate general said that during the virtual hearing, the attorney general informed the court that three meetings have taken place between Central, Haryana and Punjab government officials since the order of July 9, 2019. He also sought three more months for negotiations. Senior advocate Shyam Divan, who appeared for Haryana, however, opposed the adjournment and said the attorney general is repeatedly seeking time since 2017 and no further progress with regard to construction of SYL has been made. “The court made a query as to who had participated in the last three meetings. The attorney general informed that the chief secretaries of both the states and the secretary, Union ministry of water resources, had participated in the meeting along with other officials. Then the court observed that let the chief ministers of both the states meet to find out the solution, if any, else there is a decree that has to be executed. List the matter in the third week of August. In the meanwhile, CMs of both the states meet and try to find out a solution, if possible,” the law officer has communicated to the advocate general. When the court asked the counsels appearing for the parties whether they should record the aforesaid observation in the order, senior advocate Shyam Divan, attorney general and Punjab’s counsel, said there was no need to record the same as they will convey the observation to the states concerned, the AAG has conveyed to the AG.Meanwhile, the Union water resources ministry has recorded Punjab government’s unwillingness to complete the canal after several rounds of meetings between central, Haryana and Punjab governments in 2019 remained inconclusive. Parleys were held on the orders of the Supreme Court to work out a solution to implement apex court’s judgments to complete the remaining portion of the SYL canal in Punjab. Top Haryana officials who attended the meetings said the Central ministry has recorded Punjab’s refusal to complete the canal in the minutes of the meetings held between the officials of the two states and the Centre. “Punjab has clearly refused to complete the canal on the pretext of non-availability of spare water,” said a Haryana official. Punjab’s water resources minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, meanwhile, said, “The matter is in the knowledge our chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and he will take it up with his Haryana counterpart. Our government is fixing up a schedule for a meeting with the neighbouring state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/syl-canal-completion-haryana-may-consult-attorney-general-on-sc-observations-regarding-cm-s-meeting/story-fQjyndG3bYVwAfKbOzP1uO.html
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||Wrestler Babita Phogat, kabaddi player Kavita are Haryana sports deputy directors||Haryana government has decided to appoint Olympian wrestler Babita Phogat and kabaddi player Kumari Kavita Devi as deputy directors (sports) under the outstanding sportspersons category.Kavita, who hails from Padana village of Jind district, was a part of the Indian women kabaddi team that won gold in the 2014 Asian Games.The achievements of Olympian wrestler Babita’s family, based at Balali village of Charkhi Dadri district, had inspired Bollywood film ‘Dangal’.According to the July 29 appointment letters principal secretary (sports and youth affairs) has issued to Babita and Kavita, chief secretary had cleared their appointment on July 28.“...you are offered a temporary appointment on regular basis as Deputy Director (Sports) Group-A post in the department of sports and youth affairs under the Haryana Outstanding Sportspersons (Recruitment and Conditions of Service) Rules, 2018...,” reads the three-page identical appointment letters the state government has issued separately to Babita and Kavita.Babita has won three successive Commonwealth Games medals, including gold in 2014 and silver each in 2010 and 2018. She won a bronze medal in the World Championship held in 2012 and represented the country in the 2016 Rio Olympics.Babita was earlier appointed as a Haryana Police inspector under the sports quota.Ahead of Haryana assembly elections in October 2019, the Dangal girl, as Babita is referred to, along with her father Mahavir Phogat, had joined the Bharatiya Janata Party. The BJP had fielded her from Dadri segment. She had, however, finished third with 24,786 votes.Appointments subject to conditionsBoth these appointments will be subject to various conditions as per the provisions of rules.The duo will be ‘ineligible for appointment’ in case they have any subsisting contract for pecuniary gains like commercial endorsement or professional sports.“....you shall be ineligible for appointment...if you are guilty of sports related misconduct like doping etc.,” say the appointment letters.In case they are found guilty of any such sports related misconduct at any time subsequent to this appointment, their services will be terminated immediately.The essential qualifications/experience prescribed for the post of deputy director in the service rules will not be applicable to both the players at the time of initial appointment.However, as per the appointment letter, they will have to obtain graduation or its equivalent from a recognised university and diploma in coaching from National Institute of Sports in the relevant games or diploma from National Institute of Sports with certificate of participation in the Asian Games, the Commonwealth Games, and the Olympics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/wrestler-babita-phogat-kabaddi-player-kavita-are-haryana-sports-deputy-directors/story-rYMO5Ugacb4zdPSdQN4RhJ.html
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||Eight killed in three road accidents in Himachal||Shimla: Eight people were killed in three road accidents in Himachal Pradesh, police said on Friday. Three women were killed when their car fell into a 300-foot gorge in Kotkhai tehsil of Shimla district. Sodha Devi, 78, a resident of Sainj village in Kotkhai, Ishvari Devi, 45, of Pujeli village in Kotkhai, and Bimla Devi, 39, of Dhar village, also in Kotkhai, died on the spot. Bimla Devi’s husband Dev Raj, 45, who was driving the car survived with injuries. The accident took place on Thursday evening when they were travelling from Kyaravi to Riyoghati village and Dev Raj lost control of the vehicle near their destination. Local residents informed the police. The injured was rushed to Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital, Shimla. Shimla superintendent of police Omapati Jamwal said a case was registered. In another accident, four people were killed in Kinnaur district when their vehicle skid and fell into a 150-foot gorge on Thursday evening. Kinnaur SP SR Rana said the accident took place when they were headed from Reckong Peo to Lippa village and the driver lost control of the vehicle while negotiating a bend. In yet another accident, Ajay Kumar, 32, died when his vehicle skidded and fell into a 200-foot gorge near Maniyoh village in Dharampur sub division of Mandi district Thursday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-women-killed-as-car-rolls-down-gorge-in-kotkhai-near-shimla/story-aMh3x8eMudMg7PyVFZcvOL.html
31-07-2020||Bhopal||Ujjain man throws live-in partner off flyover, crime captured on CCTV||A man was arrested in Madhya Pradesh’s Ujjain on Thursday evening after he was caught throwing his live-in partner off a flyover early on Wednesday on CCTV cameras installed on the spot, said police.Police said the accused was identified as Sachin Baurasi, 30, a resident of Jabran Colony in Neelganga area, who works as a sanitation worker, and the woman was identified as Kajal, 24, who used to beg in Mahakal and Begumganj areas of the city. Her body was found on Wednesday morning under Hari Phatak overbridge near government Madhavganj School. “During the investigation, police seized footage from the CCTV cameras installed on the bridge. The accused was seen strolling with the victim on the bridge at about 1.30am on Wednesday,” Rupesh Dwivedi, Ujjain’s additional superintendent of police (ASP), said.“Then they sat at a spot on the flyover for sometime before the two were seen strolling again and the man was seen suddenly lifting the woman with his both hands and throwing her off the bridge,” Dwivedi said. He said a police team arrested Baurasi from the railway station and he was unaware that his crime had been captured on CCTV cameras. The man confessed to having committed the crime during interrogation and said that Kajal, who also belonged to Ujjain, and he had been living as live-in partners for the past two years, Dwivedi said.“The accused believed that the woman had an affair with another man. Hence, he decided to kill her. He chose the time and spot to kill her while believing that nobody would see him commit the crime,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/ujjain-man-throws-live-in-partner-off-flyover-crime-captured-on-cctv/story-W6r2KNDKyDqpj2bj9eL5GI.html
31-07-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan man tied to tree, beaten and forced to drink urine for illicit affair||A man in Rajasthan’s Barmer district was tied to a tree, beaten and forced to drink urine over an alleged illicit relationship last week, police said on Thursday.Police said the incident came to light after the video surfaced on Wednesday. Ajit Singh, circle officer in Chohtan, said they found during their investigation that the incident took place on July 25 and video of which went viral on July 28.Police have lodged a complaint taking note of the viral video against the unnamed accused. They said the man, a resident of Ratanpura village in Chohtan block, was caught illegally entering a house in Konra village on July 25. He was attacked after that, according to police.Singh said a man can be seen tied to a tree in the viral video and some people can be seen beating him, cutting his hair and making him drink some liquid.Several social media users claimed that the victim was forced to drink urine but Singh, the investigating officer in the case, said police were yet to verify it. Singh said the victim and accused belonged to the same community and due to this, the man did not approach the police to lodge a complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-man-tied-to-tree-beaten-and-forced-to-drink-urine-for-illicit-affair/story-yyKT8e4EAqHzqHmQEHL66O.html
31-07-2020||Delhi||Rain lashes parts of Delhi-NCR, to continue for next 2 hours||People in the Delhi-NCR region woke up to rain on Friday morning, bringing respite from the heat in the last few days. The downpour would continue for the next two hours, said the India Meteorological Department (IMD).“Thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain would occur over and adjacent areas of few places of Delhi, Noida, Greater Noida, Faridabad, Gannaur, Bagpat, Kasganj, Narora, Chandausi, Sambhal, Sahswan, Badaun, Chandpur, Amroha, Moradabad during next 2 hours,” the IMD said in a tweet.“Latest Satellite imagery and Radar imagery show patches of moderate to intense convection lies over Uttarakhand adjoining Northwest Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Northeast Uttar Pradesh, Sub-Himalayan West Bengal, and Sikkim, Assam, and Meghalaya, coastal Andhra Pradesh and Lakshadweep area,” the weather agency further stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/rain-lashes-parts-of-delhi-ncr-to-continue-for-next-2-hours/story-p5zJT1VJWHq3M96Iq98mGM.html
31-07-2020||Jaipur||7 Pakistani migrants granted Indian citizenship in Rajasthan’s Jaipur||Seven migrants from Pakistan, who have been living in Rajasthan’s Jaipur, were on Thursday given certificates for Indian citizenship by authorities.Antar Singh Nehra, Jaipur’s district collector, congratulated the people who received the certificate of Indian citizenship and hoped they will become responsible residents and support in India’s development. “In order to apply for citizenship, one can apply online. Pending applications are also being processed promptly and the remaining certificates will be issued soon,” said Nehra. Those who received the certificates included Kalyan, Roshan Kumar, Sugna Devi, Anita Devi, Shabreen, Sikandar Kumar and Mohani.Sikandar Kumar said after obtaining the certificate that he was a resident of Pakistan but his family and relatives settled in Jaipur 20 years ago. “We started working here but we were not been able to take the benefit of government schemes. But now that we have got the certificate of being Indian citizens and we will now be able to take advantage of government schemes and policies as well. I am proud of being an Indian citizen,” Sikandar Kumar said. His sister Anita, who is a tailor, said she will be able to purchase a house. “I am very happy that I got Indian citizenship. Now, I will be able to buy my own home,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/7-pakistani-migrants-granted-indian-citizenship-in-rajasthan-s-jaipur/story-D6XeTVlbrs3EzwMp1G9mOP.html
31-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt owes us Rs 1,181 crore, says North DMC mayor||The North Delhi Municipal Corporation on Thursday alleged that the Delhi government did not release Rs 1,181 crore to the corporation despite several communications and “deliberately pushed the civic body into a financial crisis”. Addressing a press conference, Jai Prakash, mayor, North Delhi Municipal Corporation, alleged that files pertaining to clearance of “Basic Tax Assignment” are pending with the government since May 25. The corporation was owed Rs 240 crore under BTA “but those files are not being cleared”, he said. Basic Tax Assignment is a segment where the state government collects tax on behalf of municipal corporations and pays the share of the civic body later.Several phone calls and text messages to both the Delhi government and the Aam Aadmi Party were not answered. Earlier, a media advisor to Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had said, “The court made it clear last month that Delhi government has no dues left.” The mayor said as per recommendations of fifth Delhi finance commission the Delhi government has to give around Rs 3,000 crore to the north civic body in an year. In the financial year 2018-19, the corporation got only Rs 1,600 crore from the government while in 2019-20 only Rs 1,500 crore was given by the government, Prakash said.“It is a deliberate attempt to create a financial problem. This BTA fund of Rs 240 crore is used to pay salaries of sanitation employees and DBC workers. This year as of now the Delhi government has released only Rs 387 crore to the north corporation and we are yet to get Rs 1,181 crore from them,” Prakash said.According to north corporation officials, other than getting money from the government, the civic body generates revenue of Rs 2200 crore from its own resources such as property tax, advertisements, parking contracts, stamp duty tax among others. “This year the income of the corporation has gone down drastically due to Covid-19 pandemic so we need funds from the government to sail through the crisis,” the official said.Cow shelter fundsSenior AAP leader Durgesh Pathak at a press conference on Thursday alleged that the municipal corporations had not released funds for the maintenance of cow shelters for last three years. Pathak said that there were around four cow shelters which are jointly maintained by the government and the civic bodies. The government and the corporation both give Rs 20 per cow per day to the cow shelter every year. “The government paid it’s share of around Rs 10.5 crore to Rs 11 crore to cow shelters but the civic bodies have not paid their share of money for the last three years. Their councillors are engaged in fodder corruption,” Pathak alleged.Responding to the allegations north corporation mayor Jai Prakash said, “The allegations of corruption are baseless. We have had a meeting with the managers of cow shelters and we are arranging funds for them. It could not be released as the government is not paying our dues.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-owes-us-rs-1-181-crore-says-north-dmc-mayor/story-KSgxCT3Oq7teim87lWWQkJ.html
31-07-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Now say it in Tamil||Wow, she speaks such free-flowing Hindi!Now, this might sound like an awkward compliment in the Hindi-speaking Delhi region. But then Hindi is not Veena’s first language.“Main Tamil Nadu ki hoon,” she says, giving away her origins in Hindi. This afternoon Veena is chatting on WhatsApp video from the isolation of her ground-floor home in Gurugram’s Sector 51, which she shares with her husband and their two daughters. During the coronavirus-triggered lockdown, Veena, 39, launched a multi-lingual YouTube channel called Gurugram Sisters, which basically consists of the dance and song performances etc. of two young sisters. “They are my daughters, Shivli and Aditri,” reveals Veena, effortlessly switching into an equally fluent English.Veena grew up in Coimbatore’s Kuniamuthur neighbourhood. While a computer engineer student in a college of the same city, she met Visheshwar Dayal, a student hailing from Delhi’s Kamla Nagar neighbourhood. Their friendship evolved into love and a few years later Veena Jayam stepped into the Hindi speaking world by becoming Veena Mathur. “I was the first one in my entire khandaan to marry a non-Tamilian.”Veena was 24.It is considered relatively easy to learn a new language as a child, but not so as an adult when one’s first language has already taken over much of the linguistic mind space. Veena agrees with this theory and gratefully credits her husband’s parents in helping her with Hindi. “They gently nudged me to chat with them in whatever Hindi phrases I could manage.” At first the Tamilian was quite shy to speak outside—they were living in Indore then—fearing that people might laugh at her attempts. “But almost everyone would praise me for being so good with a language that wasn’t my own.”Truth be told, Veena confides that learning Tamil is slightly more tough than Hindi. “After all, Sanskrit came much after Tamil... and some pronunciations in Tamil take time to master.”Anyhow, the Tamil-Hindi speaker has been living in the Delhi region—Gurugram specifically—since 2010 where she hardly gets an opportunity to speak in her native tongue outside her home. “I personally know only one or two Tamil families here.” Veena says she talks to her husband mostly in Hindi and English—“He understands Tamil but he never talks to me in Tamil out of shyness... though I have heard him speaking it with others.” She engages with her daughters mostly in Hindi, but makes it a point to also converse with them in Tamil, “because it is good to be proficient in many languages.”The lady insists that she can do all the North Indian Hindi-language prayers of her Mathur family “but when I’m praying from my inner heart, the prayers instinctively come out in Tamil.” She laughs confessing it.Even so, nobody is perfect. Veena still has to learn the numbers in Hindi. “I can say do sau (200) and teen sau (300) but I don’t know how to say the beech-wale (middle) numbers.” And now the lady calls her daughters to the living room, where they often shoot their YouTube videos. “All that’s needed for a good recording is a tripod stand and a camera, and a mike for my elder daughter who loves to sing; the younger one is more into dancing.”Speaking of their next performance, Veena says, “Engaludaya adutha video janmashtamiyai munnitu Lagaan padathulirindu ‘Radha kaise na jale’ paadalil oru arumayana nadanam.”What, you don’t get it? Go, learn Tamil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/now-say-it-in-tamil/story-AUVFNHoXuAbWezZgGNr9lJ.html
31-07-2020||Lifestyle||Hand sanitiser in Covid-19 pandemic: How much is too much?||Excess of anything is bad and the same holds true for hand sanitisers as well. Although sanitisers have ruled our lives amid the pandemic, and have become a necessity in the ‘new normal’ world — blame it on the paranoia, or stress owing to the spread of the virus — there have been times where people have used sanitisers excessively. And this has reportedly lead to breathing problems and hand allergies, among other health concerns. Often, just one trip to the market leaves one with sore hands due to copious amounts of sanitisers poured, at the entry of most stores. So, how much is too much? And how can one be wary of excessive usage of sanitisers? Yatin Wadhwa, a Gurugram-based businessman, says he has developed an allergy on his hands due to an increased use of sanitisers. “I was using sanitisers about 10 to 15 times a day, and slowly developed an allergy on my hands. I went to the doctor and he gave me medicines to eat, and to apply on the skin. That was the lesson for me to restrict my usage of sanitisers!” Some like Ritika Pahwa Sharma, a Faridabad resident, was using sanitiser almost throughout the day and subsequently developed breathing issues. She has now taken to washing hands more often than sanitising them. “I was rubbing sanitisers in my hands every 30 minutes, starting right from the time when corona entered India. Last month, when I discovered an allergy on my hands, I visited a doctor and after tests he confirmed that it’s due to excess use of hand sanitisers. I have been prescribed anti-histamine, and for immediate relief I need to take bronchodilator (inhaler) about thrice a day because of my breathlessness. But I can’t restrict the use of sanitisers! So now, I ensure that I wash my hands whenever possible than sanitising them.” Alcohol-based hand sanitisers are extremely effective in killing bacteria and viruses, but they also kill the “good protective bacteria on your hands” informs Gurugram-based Dr Nehal Shah Vora, adding, “This leads to Allergic Dermatitis or Eczema on the hands, and you may experience dryness, burning, redness and even bleeding. Inhaling the sanitiser can lead to allergic bronchitis or cough. And in children, who accidentally ingest it, it can cause alcohol poisoning as well. Excessive use can also lead to conjunctivitis, hormonal issues, fertility issues, abdominal pain and metabolic disorders and even reduced immunity!” B085LPXF93, B07VN7T85TThe best resort is to use a sanitiser sparingly. “Also, after washing or sanitising your hands, must use moisturising creams that contain petroleum jelly or oil,” advises Dr Vora adding, “When a staff at the entrance of shopping stores mandatorily gives you dollops of sanitiser, use it sparingly and then use a petroleum jelly or oil-based moisturiser or moisturising hand wipe after that.” Excessive use of hand sanitisers is turning out to be a “real medical problem now”, says Delhi-based psychiatrist, Dr Sanjay Chugh. He opines, “The need was warranted because of risk of contamination. And when people started using it initially, it definitely had a positive effect. Now we are seeing a lot of case of sanitiser induced dermatitis or dryness and inflammation of the skin. The more you use it, the more inflammation increases. I have cases of patients with Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD), who know that it’s irrational to keep rubbing hands with sanitisers, yet are unable to stop themselves. Also, when you use sanitisers, they not only kill the unhealthy pathogens, but even kill the healthy ones,” There is also a risk of alcohol intoxication because sanitisers are 99% alcohol based. “So if you keep putting them, and your hand goes to the nose, and you keep sniffing it then you can actually get a buzz that can possibly lay the seeds for further addiction,” he adds. Dr Anupam Sibal, a Delhi-based paediatrician, says, “We need to realise that we need just soap and water to clean our hands, and get rid of the SARS COV-2 viruses. Sanitisers serve the purpose as well but we don’t need to rely on them if we have access to soap and water. However, during the unavailability of soap, sanitisers are very useful for example while entering buildings, offices and malls. As we get used to the new normal in Covid-19 times, we need to remember that hand washing, masks and social distancing need to become a part of our daily existence.” Author Tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and TwitterAt Hindustan Times, we help you stay up-to-date with latest trends and products. Hindustan Times has affiliate partnership, so we may get a part of the revenue when you make a purchase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/hand-sanitiser-in-covid-19-pandemic-how-much-is-too-much/story-ptqGLC12Ck7CV54mxvvheL.html
31-07-2020||Mumbai||BMC sees 200% rise in calls, with many queries about home quarantine||The civic body’s Covid-19 helpline (1916) recorded a sharp rise in the number of calls in July, with most of the queries relating to hospital admission and ambulances. Until May 22, the helpline had received 69,407 calls. As of July 29, the total number of calls received were 210,694. On an average, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) receives 2,172 calls every day on the helpline. The disaster response helpline (1916) has been dedicated to fielding citizens’ queries regarding Covid-19 since the third week of April. Since then, data from BMC shows that the helpline received 69,407 calls till May 22. The number rose to 210,694 as of July 29. Of these calls, 98,985 comprised Covid-19-related queries including availability of beds at hospitals and treatment centres, rules of home quarantine, and food supply. Inquiries about ambulance services made up 28,652 of the calls.Initially, the centralised helpline number was manned by doctors and their teams, which led to crises in the civic body’s disaster control room. As HT had reported earlier, many called went unattended and patients were left waiting for hours, following which BMC decentralised the system. Since June, calls are diverted to the relevant ward, each of which have their own control centre, or war room. “Now, the calls get diverted to the respective civic ward’s war rooms, resulting in a better response rate. On a daily basis, each ward gets around 100 calls of which 20% pertain to ambulances,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC. According to BMC, the number of calls received daily decreased in early June. “Earlier, we used to record over 4,000 daily calls, which declined to around 3,000 calls. At present, most of the calls are related to home quarantine and measures to be taken,” said Kakani. A ward officer from G (North) ward, which covers Dadar and Dharavi, said that till the beginning of July, the war room received an average of 70 calls daily. The number has now come down to 40. “Now, due to fewer patients, more beds are available. This has helped stop panic calls from patients seeking beds. Also, the public is more aware of procedures and precautions,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-sees-200-rise-in-calls-with-many-queries-about-home-quarantine/story-ehm2fu3fu4cKfGhWhpLIdN.html
31-07-2020||City||4 private hospitals in Ulhasnagar under the scanner for overcharging Covid patients||After Thane and Kalyan, the Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC) has also decided to investigate complaints against private hospitals treating Covid-19 patients in the city. As per the civic body, four private hospitals are under scrutiny for overcharging and other irregularities. “Since there are several complaints of overcharging and denial of admission, we have initiated probes into the hospitals. As of now, four hospitals are under scrutiny,” said Yuvraj Badhane, public relations officer, UMC. The civic body is checking 108 bills of these four hospitals, for irregularities and charges over the rates set by the state government to treat Covid patients. As per UMC, six private hospitals in the city have been permitted to treat Covid patients. “We have formed a committee to look into the complaints against these hospitals. Once the scrutiny is completed, we will serve a show-cause notice, and action will be taken after receiving their explanation. Also, we will ask the hospitals to return the overcharged amount, if any, to the patients,” said Badhane. On Tuesday, the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) had cancelled the Covid status, and suspended the registration of A and G Hospital in Kalyan, as it overcharged ₹9.36 lakh from Covid patients, and did not follow directions of the civic body on bed availability and other treatment procedures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-private-hospitals-in-ulhasnagar-under-the-scanner-for-overcharging-covid-patients/story-S7Aj7aZHuUVrgLhm2OjfYM.html
31-07-2020||Mumbai||4 more test positive for Covid at Mankhurd children’s home||Four more persons from the Mankhurd Mentally Deficient Children’s Home (MDCH) tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. The fresh cases include a specially-abled minor.Last week, 30 residents of the MDCH tested positive for Covid-19, including four minors. HT had first reported the spread of infection at the children’s home in its July 26 edition.On Wednesday a minor boy, cook, cleaner, and another staff member tested positive. “The four new patients are asymptomatic and have been admitted to the Covid care centre at Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC). Twenty-seven patients who tested positive earlier, are also undergoing treatment at the same centre, while three are receiving treatment at Sion hospital,” said Vikrant Gondane, in-charge designated at the facility by the commissionerate for persons with disabilities, for Covid management.The authority at the children’s home is conducting an internal inquiry, to identify how the infection spread there.It is suspected that the Sars-Cov2 virus, which causes Covid-19, spread from staffers who share residential quarters with staff for other state-funded children’s institutions. Three staffers from one of these other facilities had tested positive earlier and one of them succumbed to the infection.Former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) member of parliament (MP) Kirit Somaiya had taken up the matter with the state human rights commission. “The government and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) have been slapped with notices in this regard by the commission. The commission will hear the matter on August 6,” Somaiya said.Mankhurd MDCH, which is run by the NGO Children Aid Society with funding from the state, houses 268 individuals with mental disabilities up to 70 years of age. Since 2012, only specially-abled children below 18 years are allowed admission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/4-more-test-positive-for-covid-at-mankhurd-children-s-home/story-oqqVkRg6bXQ4evXkFisV5K.html
31-07-2020||Mumbai||22% fewer containment zones in Mumbai since June||Amid the spike in Covid-19 cases in high-rises, the number of containment zones in the city has dipped 22% to 622 as of July 28, from 798 on June 9, with the dip in cases in slum pockets. The number of cases in these containment zones, however, has increased to 30,781 as of July 28, from 18,957 on June 9. The number of sealed buildings has risen to 5,960 (July 28) from 4,538 (June 9), and the cases, too, have surged to 22,381, from 9,956.When a slum pocket is declared a containment zone or a building is sealed after Covid cases are detected, the areas witness strict lockdown, allowing minimal movement for essential services. The easing of lockdown curbs to allow non-essential movement and visitors might have increased cases in high-rises, a senior civic official said. “Also, people have started commuting to offices and there are more people on the road than earlier. This exposes them to virus transmission,” he said. Speaking on the new trend, Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state Covid-19 task force, said, “The virus came from international travellers, who gave it to their domestic help and drivers. From the slums, it then moved to high-rises and housing societies. This also shows that social distancing was not followed in slums and a localised transmission occurred there, but now they have got immune to it as several of them have developed antibodies.” The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) recent sero survey of three wards revealed that 57% people from slums had overcome the virus by developing antibodies. On July 3, BMC, in collaboration with Niti Aayog and Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, started the survey to identify the spread of Covid-19. The survey of 6,936 people from R-North (Dahisar), M-West (Chembur) and F-North (Sion) wards found 57% from slums and 16% from other residential areas had the antibodies, suggesting they had been exposed to Covid-19 and recovered. BMC officials said that even chronic hot spots of Covid cases in slums, where more than 20 positive cases were detected on a daily basis, have now come down to zero. For instance, several slum pockets in Govandi, Dharavi, Worli and Bandra have zero cases being reported on a daily basis. Joshi said, “We need to note that vertical high-rises are as bad as slums when it comes to susceptibility of transmission of the virus. This virus has taught us is everyone has to take strict precautions. We can’t get complacent that the cases in slum pockets have declined.” Meanwhile, on Thursday, Mumbai recorded 1,208 cases and 53 deaths, taking the total to 113,199 and toll to 6,300. According to BMC’s data, of the 53 deaths, one was of a patient below 40 years, 32 were patients above 60 years, and 20 were between 40 and 60 years.A total of 1,120 patients were recovered and discharged on Thursday, bringing the total to 86,447. The number of active patients in the city was 20,158. The recovery rate was 76%. The number of tests was 5.16 lakh and doubling rate 75 days. Meanwhile, Dharavi reported six new cases on Thursday, taking the total to 2,551.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/22-fewer-containment-zones-in-mumbai-since-june/story-3CSyykFHo9k3KQCeexBVQJ.html
31-07-2020||City||Twin cops succumb to Covid 10 days apart||Ten days after a constable from Hill Line police station in Ulhasnagar died due to Covid-19, his twin brother, a constable with Ambernath police station succumbed to the infection on Thursday. The brothers had joined the Maharashtra Police force together in 1991. Dilip Ghodke, 56, died on July 20, while undergoing treatment. His brother Jaysingh Ghodke, who was also receiving treatment for Covid-19, died at Mamta Hospital in Dombivli on Thursday. Deputy commissioner of police, zone 4, Pramod Shewale said, “Both brothers were undergoing treatment for Covid-19, and succumbed to the disease. They both were working throughout the pandemic and were infected while performing their duty.” Two days after Dilip died, Jaysingh fell sick, following which he tested positive for Covid-19. He was admitted to a Covid hospital in Ulhasnagar and later shifted to Dombivli after his condition worsened. According to the Ambernath police, Jaysingh was tested on July 21, however, his report came negative. On July 23, he suffered from fever and breathlessness.“We had appointed two policemen for his caretaking. Later, he was tested again, and his result came positive on July 28. He was then shifted to the Covid care centre at Savlaram Sports Complex in Dombivli. On July 29, he was shifted to Mamta Hospital as his health condition had worsened. He succumbed on Thursday around 6.30am,” said SN Dhumal, senior inspector, Ambernath police station. Jaisingh’s son Manish Ghodke, 21, said, “My father was working throughout the pandemic. He suffered a lot with the disease, however, we are very grateful to the entire police team for supporting us till the end and also taking care of my father.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/twin-cops-succumb-to-covid-10-days-apart/story-yHU8AFVzuhIuKCcoNQDm0J.html
31-07-2020||City||20-year-old arrested for staring at woman patient at TMC Covid hospital||Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) on Thursday filed a suo moto complaint at Kapurbawdi police station against a 20-year-old man for stalking a woman patient admitted to the Covid hospital set up by the civic body at Global Impact Hub in Balkum. Kapurbawdi police arrested the accused, Fazlehaq Mohammed Ummar Khan, a resident of Turbhe, under section 509 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for insulting the dignity of a woman. TMC has now increased security at the hospital and set up surveillance cameras. On Tuesday, the victim had complained to the hospital authority that a labourer who was repairing the washroom in the hospital, was staring at her. Based on CCTV footage, the accused was identified as Khan, who was working at the facility as a plumber on a contract basisWhen the hospital staff approached him, an argument ensued and Khan was beaten by a crowd when he tried to escape. A video of the attack was shared on social media, following which the civic body decided to take action. However, the woman victim was not ready to file a complaint. “We took the victim’s statement but she was not keen on filing a complaint. However, later the civic body approached up to file a first information report (FIR) on the incident. With the help of the CCTV footage, we identified and arrested the accused on Thursday evening,” said Anil Deshmukh, senior inspector, Kapurbawdi police station. Vishwanath Kelkar, deputy commissioner, TMC, said, “Immediately after the incident, we increased security at the hospital gates and added surveillance cameras at various points in the building. We have decided to file a complaint as such incidents should not be ignored.” (inputs by Anamika Gharat)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/20-year-old-arrested-for-staring-at-woman-patient-at-tmc-covid-hospital/story-23nC6KCf7EgSR50d2N9xgL.html
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s Covid-19 tally surpasses 1,000 mark in 134 days||The steady rise in Covid-19 cases through July pushed the city’s tally beyond the 1,000 mark on Thursday with 38 fresh infections.It took just three weeks in July for the cases to double from 500 to 1,016, even as the last 100 cases were added in just three days.The 38 new cases include a doctor from the Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) and two under-training police constables at the Sector 26 police lines.Out of the total 1016 cases, 355 remain active. As many as 647 patients have been discharged, while 14 have succumbed to the virus.Dhanas and Manimajra have the maximum active cases at 36 and 35, respectively. Along with Ram Darbar, which has 15 cases, the three areas account for 25% of the city’s active cases.Apart from Bapu Dham Colony, Dhanas and Manimajra are the only two areas with over 50 cases since the outbreak of the virus in March.Bapu Dham Colony, which has been the worst-affected, alone has confirmed two deaths and 263 cases, which are 25% of the city’s total cases so far. The colony still has 11 active cases.Thursday’s cases were reported from Sectors 10, 11, 12, 15, 25, 26, 33, 38, 39, 40, 46, 48 and 52, besides PGIMER campus, Dhanas, Mauli Jagran, Manimajra, Kishangarh, Burail, Khuda Lahora and Khuda Jassu.SUDDEN SPURT IN CASESWhile the city remained under curfew from March 24 to May 4, the borders were reopened for inter-city travel on June 8, which was followed by a sudden spike in cases.Inter-state CTU bus services were suspended soon after. The administration continues to impose night curfew from 10pm to 5am, while its request for a weekend curfew in the tricity from Friday night to Monday morning was recently turned down by Haryana and Punjab.Schools, colleges, apni mandis, multiplexes, swimming pools and gyms remain closed, while religious places and shopping malls are permitted to operate with safety precautions. Public dealing at municipal corporation offices and UT Secretariat continues under strict Covid-19 protocol.Wedding events are permitted with a gathering of only up to 50 persons. OPDs at major government hospitals, including PGIMER and GMCH, Sector 32, remain suspended to avoid mass spread of infection, while markets and restaurants remain open from 10am to 9pm. Only cases with urgency are taken up at the Punjab and Haryana high court and district courts, via video conferencing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-covid-19-tally-surpasses-1-000-mark-in-134-days/story-3GartSEB9mxf5WEex32vrL.html
31-07-2020||City||KDMC cancels posts of 13 corporators||The Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) on Thursday cancelled the post of 13 corporators after the state government decided to separate the 18 of 27 villages from the civic body. As per the state government’s decision, nine villages will remain under KDMC, while 18 villages will have a separate body. “Based on the directions from the state election commission, we have initiated the ward re-formation. Based on the procedure to be followed the civic body has cancelled the post of 13 corporators, who are from the 18 villages,” said a senior officer of KDMC, who did not wish to be named.With this decision, the civic body which has been asked to begin the preliminary works for the next civic polls, will hold the elections for 118 wards. In 2015 civic polls, the KDMC conducted elections for 122 wards which included the 27 villages. Sources from KDMC, however, revealed that the corporators whose posts were cancelled, were unhappy with the move.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kdmc-cancels-posts-of-13-corporators/story-OUy49zE9pKdBn6J6a7SRTN.html
31-07-2020||Mumbai||AAI allows SpiceJet to fly despite pending dues, loss of ₹934.8 crores||SpiceJet, which is one of the low-cost airlines in the country, has now been allowed to operate normally by the Airports Authority of India (AAI) until further notice. The decision comes after SpiceJet wrote to AAI seeking more time to work out the modalities to pay pending dues. The airlines had announced a net loss of ₹934.8 crore for the year 2019-2020.SpiceJet spokesperson said, “The AAI has deferred its decision to put SpiceJet on cash and carry. We continue to have normal operations at all AAI-run airports as before without any impediments.”The development comes after AAI issued a letter to all regional executive directors and all its other necessary department heads, along with SpiceJet’s chairman and managing director (CMD) informing that the low-cost carrier will have to pay before operating each of their flight in all the airports managed by AAI across the country. The letter had stated that the airline will have to pay in cash, from midnight on Thursday, to operate its flights as it had failed to clear dues towards parking and landing charges at various airports despite being reminded repeatedly.The AAI letter dated July 29, a copy of which is with HT, states that it had sent various emails to the airline as a reminder to clear its dues, but since the airline had failed to pay its pending charges, it was implementing cash and carry policy for the airline.After a request from SpiceJet, AAI issued a statement which read, “The decision to put the all India operation of M/s SpiceJet on cash and carry with effect from 0001 hrs of 30th July 2020 is deferred till further orders.”On Wednesday, SpiceJet had announced a loss of ₹807.1 crore in the March quarter of the 2019-20 financial year as against a net profit of ₹56.3 crore a year ago. For the whole of 2019-20, net loss stood at ₹934.8 crore against a net loss of ₹316.1 crore in 2018-19.In the first week of July, Air India too was announced to be put on cash and carry mode by the AAI in Ahmedabad, Bhubaneswar, Chennai and Kolkata airports from July 7. The decision was taken owing to their long-pending dues. However, this decision too was deferred after Air India paid a small amount of the total dues and even wrote to the AAI to allow them more time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/aai-allows-spicejet-to-fly-despite-pending-dues-loss-of-934-8-crores/story-uqTfPgFIBE4S1l4fGQGHwL.html
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||PSPCL hears no word from state govt on Centre’s appeal to revive Bathinda plant||A week after the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) expressed interest in reviving the defunct Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Plant (GNDTP) as a non-conventional fuel facility, the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has not received any communication from the state government on reviewing its decision to dismantle the Bathinda-based unit. PSPCL chief managing director A Venu Prasad said the process to dismantle four units of GNDTP is underway and e-auctioning to disassemble the power generation facility will be held on August 20 as per the schedule. “It was a state cabinet decision to scrap the plant as it was no longer economically viable to run it. The PSPCL has not received any communiqué from PMO on the possibility to run it on unconventional fuel. In fact, Punjab is solar power surplus and biomass energy plant can be set up at any place,” said Prasad.A team of state government technocrats attended a webinar on July 24 to discuss the possibilities of converting one unit of the plant as a biomass facility corporation officials said. PSPCL director (generation) Jatinder Goyal said, “The state has planned a mega pharmaceutical industry park at the site and finance minister Manpreet Badal has even met the Union ministeron this. The coal-run plant was closed after it was found that re-operationalising it on conventional or non-conventional fuels was not economically viable. Power demand in Punjab increases only for four months of summers to meet requirement mainly for the agriculture sector. For the rest of the year, the state produces more power to cater to all sectors. Therefore, it is not wise to invest more on a plant with a little utilization.”Opposition parties like the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) besides employees of state electricity department and farmer unions have been protesting against the decision to wind up the plant that was set up in 1974.The PSPCL board of directors in August last year had recommended to the state government to upgrade the plant infrastructure to start alternative energy generation projects.Manpreet Badal, who has been under fire of the opposition for pushing the plant closure to establish an industrial hub in his assembly segment, was unavailable for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pspcl-hears-no-word-from-state-govt-on-centre-s-appeal-to-revive-bathinda-plant/story-ZRdud0ZgEenRoTrOsUwxfP.html
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||HSGMC writes to Khattar on separate accounts for Gurdwaras||In a letter sent to Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday, the acting president of the Haryana Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (HSGMC) Didar Singh Nalvi has asked for compliance of Supreme Court orders of 2014 in which it had asked the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) for opening separate bank accounts of gurdwaras that the committee manages in Haryana. These gurdwaras include: Nada Sahib in Panchkula; Panjokhra Sahib and Manji Sahib in Ambala; Dhamtan Sahib and Gurdwara Guru Teg Bahadur Sahib in Jind; a Gurdwara Sahib in Thanesar and another in Yamunanagar. Nalvi claimed that the apex court order six years ago, SGPC had transferred at least Rs 70 crore from gurdwaras in Haryana to Punjab, exhibiting non-compliance of the order. Referring to the annual budget for this fiscal, Nalvi said that for seven gurdwaras in Haryana, it is Rs 12 crore. “Why is the donation reaching in cash and kind in gurdwaras of Haryana not being spend on the causes of the community within the state. If this is being spent elsewhere, the SGPC should justify it,” adding that Haryana government must make compliance of SC orders binding on the SGPC. After the Haryana government passed an act for a separate gurdwara body for the state, the SGPC had moved the SC, which ordered status quo on a separate gurdwara body, however, asking for accounting of donations received in Haryana gurdwaras, separately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hsgmc-writes-to-khattar-on-separate-accounts-for-gurdwaras/story-SpBKEISAtiu6YBG5nz9a1N.html
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||Amritsar Dussehra train tragedy: Main accused, 5 others get anticipatory bail||A court in Amritsar on Thursday granted anticipatory bail to six of the seven accused, including former Punjab minister Navjot Singh Sidhu’s close aide Saurabh Madan alias Mithu Madan, in the 2018 Dussehra train tragedy case.The special investigation team (SIT) of the Government Railway Police (GRP), formed to fix responsibility for the tragedy, had filed a chargesheet against seven organisers of the event before duty magistrate Harpreet Singh on June 6.In the chargesheet, the SIT has named Dussehra committee office-bearers Mithu Madan, Rahul Kalyan, Deepak Kumar, Karan Bhandari, Kabal Singh, Deepak Gupta and Bhupinder Singh as accused under Sections 304-A, 337 and 338 of the Indian Penal Code. Mithu is son of a Congress councilor.All the accused, barring Rahul Kalyan, had filed for bail application. The matter was heard in the court of judicial magistrate (first class) Rajan Aneja.“It was expected that the accused would get bail easily as the SIT submitted the chargesheet before making their arrests. Even the charges were diluted in the chargesheet. Filing of the weak chargesheet has helped the accused secure the bail, said Verka,” said advocate Sarabjit Singh Verka of the Punjab Human Rights Organisation (PHRO).The SIT had filed the chargesheet without arresting the accused, and by removing Section 304 (imprisonment for a term which may extend to 10 years and shall also be liable to fine) of the IPC against them. The court has fixed the next date of the hearing on September 3.On October 19, 2018, a speeding train mowed down 61 persons and injured more than 100 people who had gathered for Dussehra celebrations at Dhobi Ghat near Jaura Phatak in Amritsar.The magisterial inquiry conducted by Jalandhar divisional commissioner B Purushartha on the orders of Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh had held the event organisers accountable for various acts of omission and commission that led to the tragedy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amritsar-dussehra-train-tragedy-main-accused-5-others-get-anticipatory-bail/story-B5TkxuoPweLqiS31UuCjKL.html
31-07-2020||City||Punjabi University row: V-C’s adviser puts in papers over delay in joining||Former bureaucrat Manjit Singh Narang, who was recently appointed as the honorary adviser to Punjabi University vice-chancellor Prof B S Ghuman, put down his papers on Thursday, accusing the V-C of deliberately delaying his joining.Earlier this month, the varsity had appointed retired IAS officer Narang to the post to help it tide over its acute financial crisis, after consultation with the state government.However, in his letter to the V-C, Narang openly blamed Ghuman and his team of senior officials for delaying his joining and creating unnecessary hurdles following his appointment. “It appears that the V-C appointed me under some pressure, but actually did not want me to take over the charge. This is why Prof Ghuman always made lame excuses whenever I asked him about formal joining,” Narang said.Narang had sent his attendance report to the V-C through email on July 24, but the varsity administration has failed to acknowledge it till date.“I was told by the V-C that it was not the right time to join as the employee unions were protesting his appointment,” he said.The former bureaucrat said he was appointed for the financial upliftment of the varsity. “However, it seems that the university does not require my services, therefore there is no point of becoming a part of its administration,” he said.V-C Ghuman could not be reached despite repeated calls and text messages.Meanwhile, higher education department secretary Rahul Bhandari said it is sad on the part of university administration that Narang was not made to join till now. “He was appointed for the betterment of the varsity both financially and administratively,” Bhandari said.It may be mentioned that this is for the first time since the university’s inception that an adviser has been appointed to assist the V-C in financial matters.Meanwhile, a senior varsity official revealed that V-C Ghuman was reluctant to have an adviser over him, as it would demean his position in the teaching lobby and bureaucracy. “Even the protest against Narang’s appointment was sponsored by the protégés of the varsity administration,” the official said.Narang, who changed the fortunes of Pepsu Road Transport Corporation three years ago, was not to charge any money and even gave up all the perks and official vehicle for his new assignment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjabi-university-row-v-c-s-adviser-puts-in-papers-over-delay-in-joining/story-628udcn0opS6wVc14HAsNN.html
31-07-2020||Pune||Record Class 10 result raises cut-off lists for first year junior college admissions||The Secondary School Certificate (SSC) Class 10 results were declared on Wednesday and the Maharashtra’s passing percentage this year went up to 95.30 per cent. It is the highest passing percentage of the state in last decade and the good performance will impact the cut-off lists of prominent colleges for Class 11 (first year junior college) admissions in the city. A total of 15,466 students have scored more than 90 per cent marks in Pune division. “This year’s SSC results are excellent and it will certainly have an impact on the Class 11 admissions. The cut-off list for admission will increase by around 5 per cent and students will have to fare well in tests and interviews to get a seat in colleges of their wish. The office of deputy director of education (DYDE), Pune should allow colleges for “extra intake” of students for this year. Last year, some colleges were allowed to take 10 per cent extra intake of students,” said Rajendra Zunjarrao, principal of Modern College of Arts Science and Commerce, Shivajinagar. Fergusson College principal Ravindrasinh Pardeshi said, “Every student wants to get admission in good colleges. It will be a tough competition to get admission in prominent colleges in the city this year because of record SSC results.” Deputy director of education, Pune, has started the Class 11 admission process online from July 16. From August 1, passed students of Class 10 from any board can fill Part 1 form online. From a total of 301 junior colleges in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad, 1,05,732 seats are available. Till date, more than 57,000 students have registered online for the Class 11 admission. “While filling the admission form students need to only upload Class 10 marksheet.“If other documents are not attached during the admission process by students due to technical reasons, then colleges need to take self-declaration from students and three months’ time will be given to them. There are enough number of seats available in Pune division for students. The Part 2 form filling schedule will soon be declared.” said Meena Shendkar, assistant director of education, Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/record-class-10-result-raises-cut-off-lists-for-first-year-junior-college-admissions/story-NtCsVLXlPuYQigV4AEfMIJ.html
31-07-2020||Mumbai||1.44L SSC students got bonus marks for drawing: Maha data||Of the 188,131 students who were awarded bonus marks in their Secondary School Certificate (SSC) exams, results of which were announced on Wednesday, 144,183 (77%) got them for drawing, according to data from the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE). In Mumbai division, 32,007 students were awarded bonus marks, of which 26,182 (82%) got it for drawing. The state education department introduced the bonus marks (up to 25 marks) in 2017, for students excelling in art and cultural activities, in addition to sports. In 2018, after scores soared with the bonus marks, the department amended the rules and reduced the maximum bonus scores up to 15 marks. Those who clear the intermediate drawing grade exam conducted by the Directorate of Art in Maharashtra get three to seven bonus marks depending on the grade. Schools said the number of students showing interest in arts and culture has increased after the bonus facility was introduced. “Students should get an incentive to take up extracurricular activities. Sadly, students need some motivation to do something apart from their studies. Students are consciously trying to secure bonus marks by taking up these exams,” said Prashant Redij, spokesperson of the Mumbai Principals’ Association. Asha Keer, an art teacher from an Andheri-based school, said she has a sharp rise in enrolments over the past four years. “For music, dance etc one needs training for several years. While the same is true for fine art and drawing, grade exams can be cleared with just a year’s preparation if the child has basic interest in drawing. This is something that parents also realise and often push their children to take up the exams,” she said. Teachers said bonus marks are especially useful for students who are already brilliant. For instance, all three top scorers in the city this year – Vidhi Chheda (100%), Saee Nimkar (99.8%) and Sameera Surve (99.6%) have got bonus marks. While Vidhi and Sameera got marks for excelling in classical dance, Saee got them for clearing the intermediate examinations with an A grade. “Every year, the number of requests coming to the board sees a surge. This year, owing to the lockdown, the verification process for these claims was done online. We are happy that we could still complete it and students got the scores they deserved,” said an official from the Mumbai divisional board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/1-44l-ssc-students-got-bonus-marks-for-drawing-maha-data/story-JxFiiorel2a0RKzfuaxFfP.html
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||Over 20,000 students register for Panjab University’s UG, PG courses||As many as 20,268 students have registered for online admissions to various undergraduate and postgraduate courses at Panjab University. While 10,753 students have registered for postgraduate (PG) courses, 9,515 have applied for undergraduate (UG) courses.As many as 153 PG and UG courses are on offer this year. The tentative deadline for applications is August 8.Under UG courses, maximum students, at 1,472, have registered for BCom (evening studies-Multidisciplinary Research Centre), followed by 1,153 students for BA economics (honours), 791 for BA-BEd and 704 for BA (honours) five-year integrated programme.For PG courses, 429 students have registered for MA psychology and 362 for MA political science. MPharma (pharmaceutics) and MPharma (pharmacology) have received 240 and 222 registrations, respectively.For UG courses, applicants can visit http://ugadmissions.puchd.ac.in and for postgraduate and diploma courses, the link is http://onlineadmissions.puchd.ac.in.Students can submit the admission form irrespective of the declaration of result of the qualifying exam or entrance test.Admissions in city collegesA total of 19,048 applications have been received for around 16,000 seats in various city colleges. Among these, 8,531 applications have come through centralised admissions of the UT department of higher education, while 10,517 have been received through non-centralised admissions.Four colleges have also received 5,670 applications for BA first year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/over-20-000-students-register-for-panjab-university-s-ug-pg-courses/story-rYwWEqPkDjBfwSu3Wfj6lI.html
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||Captain painting Sikhs as anti-India, says Sukhbir||SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Thursday said that it was a great and tragic irony that Capt Amarinder Singh is talking about the people of his state in terms of “anti-India” forces in Punjab at a time when the entire country was standing up to salute their patriotic heroics and sacrifices in defending the national borders against China and Pakistan. In a rejoinder to chief minister’s statement on UAPA, the SAD president scoffed at Amarinder’s “fake bravado against outfits like SFJ”, saying that history was witness that in the past the origins of all such outfits had been traced to the Congress. “First, you send your right hand men to the so-called “Sarbat Khalsa” at Chabba where Khalistan resolutions are passed, and then you start your shallow-dramatic breast-beating on threats to national unity and integrity,” he said. Sukhbir said that the people of Punjab, especially the Sikhs, have seen through these hypocritical games. “The community that you shrewdly and cunningly want to defame as anti-India just because they support the SAD has seen these games by you and your party bosses in Delhi in the past and will not be befooled,” he said. The former deputy CM said he was surprised that instead of retracting his steps and desisting from creating the anti-national bogey against the Sikhs and disowning the Indira Gandhi narrative which he had suddenly pulled out of archives, Captain has gone one step farther and has suddenly started seeing “a threat to the country from “anti-India forces” in Punjab. The SAD chief reiterated that Amarinder was deliberately reviving the anti-Sikh Congress slogans of the 1980s in a familiar Congress strategy to divide Punjabis on religious grounds and divert their attention from the abysmal failures of the Congress government over the past almost four years. “Having failed to deliver on any of the promises he had made on oath of the sacred Sikh scriptures, Captain is now looking to present himself in some dramatic role as a champion and defender of the nation,” he added. Sukhbir also said that he had cautioned the CM against the repressive misuse of UAPA by his police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/captain-painting-sikhs-as-anti-india-says-sukhbir/story-Kbydilk9m3DScUGDERcM3J.html
31-07-2020||Pune||CBI books former IITM Safar official for irregularities worth ₹2.68cr||Pune:The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered a case against officials of Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) and some private persons on charges of allegedly causing loss to the IITM, officials said on Thursday. CBI has booked the then project director Gufran Beig of System of Air Quality Forecasting and Research (Safar) at IITM, senior technical officer Vipin Mali, other officials at IITM for colluding with a private Mumbai-based company. According to FIR filed by CBI, the officials were booked for accepting substandard and below specification cheap made in China digital display Boards at eight times its original price for Safar project and caused wrongful loss of ₹2.68 crores to the institute. Calls and messages to Dr Beig did not get response as the his phone was switched off. Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology administrative officer Ajit Prasad could not be contacted despite efforts and communication officer Shompa Das said that she is not authorised to speak on the issue. The agency registered a case under various sections of IPC and Prevention of Corruption Act against the officials and managing director of the private company and others. CBI spokesperson said, “It was alleged that during the period, 2011-2018, the then public servants entered into conspiracy with others, including managing director and director of Mumbai based-private company and awarded the contract for the supply, commissioning and maintenance of ‘Digital Display System of SAFAR-PUNE’, including supply of 12 units of Outdoor True Colour LED Display Boards in violation of the prescribed purchase procedure/rules and by way of disqualifying other bidders on flimsy grounds.” Searches were conducted at the residential and official premises of the accused in Pune and Mumbai which led to recovery of incriminating documents and articles, the CBI said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cbi-books-former-iitm-head-for-irregularities-worth-2-68cr/story-J55Qbj7re2lklICM6olU3N.html
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||ROW OVER UAPA: Capt asks Sukhbir to stop political drama||As UK joined the ranks of major countries that have openly rejected the SFJ’s ‘Referendum 2020’, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday called upon SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal to open his eyes to the secessionist threat of anti-Indian forces instead of indulging in political theatrics over the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act or UAPA, which their own government had used extensively during their tenure. Welcoming UK’s statement on ‘Referendum 2020’, Amarinder expressed surprise that Sukhbir continues to turn a blind eye to the threat posed by Pakistan-backed Sikhs for Justice (SFJ), and other terrorist and radical forces working to destabilise India, particularly Punjab. “Can’t he (Sukhbir) see that the arrests under the UAPA, which he is opposing, are part of the state government’s strategy to combat this threat?” he questioned. “After Canada, the UK has now come out with a categorical statement that “it is not involved in any way in this unofficial and non-binding referendum…and considers Indian Punjab as part of India,” according to a state government release. Amarinder reminded the SAD chief of his earlier offer to look into any case of misuse of the UAPA and wrongful arrest under the same. “Why don’t you send me the list of cases which you claim the police have registered wrongfully?” he asked SAD chief, while seeking a list of the names of those arrested under UAPA during the SAD-BJP rule. The CM said the Badal government had registered more than 60 cases under the UAPA during their term. Of the 225 persons arrested in these cases, 120 were either acquitted or discharged. “Should the large number of acquittals/discharges not be construed to mean you had applied the Act indiscriminately?” Captain Amarinder asked Sukhbir, questioning his motives in giving a communal twist to some of the recent arrests made by the Punjab Police under UAPA. Amarinder said that if the Akalis believed the UAPA to be anti-people and divisive, then Sukhbir, as deputy CM and home minister in the erstwhile SAD-BJP government, should not have applied it in so many cases. The Congress, which was in opposition then, had assumed that the UAPA was being used to keep terror in check in the state, he added. He also accused the Akali leader of trying to create a divide between communities with his senseless attack on the state government’s attempts to check the anti-Punjab forces from succeeding in their game plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/row-over-uapa-capt-asks-sukhbir-to-stop-political-drama/story-mDxIB6XTuWXOp3XXy9PbZI.html
31-07-2020||City||Panchkula’s Covid-19 count crosses 500 mark||The Covid-19 tally in Panchkula crossed the 500 mark with 34 fresh cases on Thursday. Of the 532 cases in the district so far, 277 remain active. While 253 patients have been discharged, two have died.Among the new cases on Thursday, 13 patients are CRPF personnel and their family members, including a three-year-old girl. Other cases are from Sectors 5, 7, 9, 26 and 15, besides Housing Board Complex-Sector 14, VK Colony in Pinjore, Railly, Ramgarh, Dhobhi Mohalla and Kalka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-s-covid-19-count-crosses-500-mark/story-1VuNjaBskNjRfyVvP5TO3L.html
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||Missing 267 saroops: Former HC judge opts out of probe||The probe into the case of missing 267 holy saroops (copies) of Guru Granth Sahib has got hampered once again as former Punjab and Haryana High Court judge Navita Singh on Thursday disassociated herself from the matter. Navita Singh was already out of the scene ever since the head priest of the Akal Takht, the highest Sikh temporal seat, assigned her the task to look into the matter in a month. She did not even visit the Shiromani Gurdwara parbandhak Committee (SGPC) publishing house at Gurdwara Ramsar Sahib, Amritsar, from where the holy saroops went missing. She has not met any of the witnesses either.The matter was highlighted by the Punjab Human Rights Organization (PHRO), a non-government rights advocacy group. Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh said Navita Singh sent them a communiqué in which she has expressed her inability to carry out the probe citing her domestic obligations.The Takht announced her name for the probe on July 17 after a section of the community expressed doubts over the fairness of the panel constituted by the SGPC to enquire into the case. In her place, the jathedar appointed Telangana High Court lawyer Ishar Singh who was earlier asked to assist her in the probe, as chief investigator. Harpreet Kaur, a lawyer at the Punjab and Haryana High Court, and Harleen Kaur, a chartered accountant, have been deputed to assist him in the probe panel. “This will not hinder the probe which will be carried out in a fair and impartial manner and completed within the stipulated time. Those found guilty in the probe report will not be spared,” said Giani Harpreet Singh.Ishar Singh is learnt to have grilled the key witnesses and recorded their statements at the SGPC office. So far, statements of two dozen persons have been recorded. Records of the publishing house were shifted to the Akal Takht secretariat.NEW PANEL A MERE EYEWASH: PHROTerming the move of Navita Singh as unfortunate, the PHRO rejected the new probe panel. “The probe is mere an eyewash,” PHRO investigator Sarabjit Singh Verka said.“It was demanded that the probe be handed over to a retired judge. Actually, the SGPC functionaries are trying their best to influence the probe being carried out by Ishar Singh. The incumbent and former employees were grilled in the presence of officials whose role is under scanner. The evidences are being tempering with,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/missing-267-saroops-former-hc-judge-opts-out-of-probe/story-5HOBf0TZvE3EqsfwcZ6lSM.html
31-07-2020||Mumbai||Highest 1-day spike of 11,147 cases takes Maha tally to 411,798||Maharashtra on Thursday recorded its highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases with 11,147 new infections, taking the tally to 411,798. The daily caseload crossed the 10,000 mark for the second time, with the first being on July 22, when the tally jumped by 10,576.As of Thursday, the state has 148,150 active cases with 248,615 patients having recovered so far, including 8,860 in the past 24 hours. The state’s recovery rate stood at 60.37%, below the national rate of 64.41%.After ramping up testing capacity over the past couple of weeks, the state conducted 53,894 tests on Thursday —highest ever in a day — and also saw a rise in the positivity rate to 20.68%, from Wednesday’s rate of 19.32%. Mumbai reported 1,208 cases and 53 deaths, taking the tally to 113,199 and toll to 6,300. Of the fatalities reported in the past 24 hours, Pune district saw 83, including 52 in Pune city, 21 in Pune rural and 10 in Pimpri-Chinchwad. Navi Mumbai reported 10 fatalities, Thane city, Kalyan-Dombivli and Raigad rural reported six each. The case fatality rate (CFR) of the state stood at 3.58%, above the national rate of 2.23% on Wednesday. Pune city topped the chart of daily infections in the state with 1,889 cases in the past 24 hours. Pune reported 3,309 cases, including 433 in Pune rural and 987 in Pimpri-Chinchwad. Although state authorities are expecting a downward trend of the virus curve in the next few weeks, they are also wary about a surge, owing to the easing of relaxations. The state government on Wednesday had announced it would allow malls to open and non-team sports like golf course, tennis, mallakhamb to happen from August 5. The capacity of passengers in taxi and private cars has also been increased to three, although they still remain restricted for essential services. Two wheelers, too, have been allowed with pillion rider, albeit with mandatory mask and helmet. “Whenever the relaxations from lockdown curbs were extended, we have witnessed a surge in cases. With activities in malls and at playgrounds allowed and expected crowding during Eid and Ganpati, there could be another spike in cases over next few weeks. Chief minister is wary about the second wave of the outbreak if the lockdown is not handled properly. The civic bodies and district administration have been asked to tighten vigilance in containment zones,” said a state government official, requesting anonymity. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said in Pune on Thursday that the strict implementation of the lockdown curbs were being done, while lifting the restrictions in a phased manner. He said that keeping the growth rate and fatality rate in control was a challenge. “Citizens need to be alert in the first wave of the coronavirus outbreak we are going through. The civic bodies and district collectors should implement an awareness drive for social distancing and hygiene protocols that need to be observed. The local bodies should also ensure that patients are not inconvenienced.” Thackeray has also directed the private laboratories to inform the municipal corporations first about the test reports, so that the patients are attended to immediately by doing appropriate arrangements. “Patients with positive reports most of the time avoid admitting themselves to hospitals, leading to the rise in the death rate. Proper coordination could avoid this. The civic bodies in Aurangabad, Nashik and Pune need to ramp up the health infrastructure for which the state government would provide financial assistance,” he said.Eight municipal corporations in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) still report a high number of cases. Mira-Bhayander commissioner Vijay Rathod said, “We traced 2.90 lakh people over the last few weeks to ensure that every high-risk contact was tested and treated. We have ramped up tests to the rate of 400 tests per day per million against the Central guideline of 140 tests.”Jalgaon, one of the districts with high fatality rate, reported a spike in cases over the last couple of days. Nagoji Chavan, civil surgeon of Jalgaon district said the rise was owing to the rise in tests. “We have been aggressively tracking and tracing contacts in our bid to contain the spread by tracing around 20 people per patient to arrest the spread and treat them early. This has helped us in bringing down the CFR to 4.6%, which was more than 13 few weeks ago. We have also strengthened our infrastructure by ramping up the bed capacity in the city to 13,000 beds, so as to tackle the rise in cases. Inspite of this, we are expecting the cases to rise for the next few weeks,” he said.State currently has 9,04,141 people under home quarantine and 50,456 people in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/highest-1-day-spike-of-11-147-cases-takes-maha-tally-to-411-798/story-uJc9JeTMgiauuZMhclye4L.html
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||With 24 new cases, Mohali’s Covid-19 count climbs to 822||The district’s Covid-19 count breached the 800 mark on Thursday with 24 fresh cases. The last 500 cases have been reported in just 25 days, with the latest 100 being added in four days. Now, the total cases stand at 822, of which 312 remain active. While 496 people have recovered so far, 14 patients have succumbed to the disease. The fresh cases are spread across the district – 12 from Dera Bassi sub-division, six from Mohali, two from Kharar and four from Kurali. Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said, “Most of the cases being reported in July are contacts of positive patients or have travel history. Majority of them are asymptomatic and are responding well to treatment. We will be taking samples of the family members of the latest cases.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/with-24-new-cases-mohali-s-count-climbs-to-822/story-tBwqxjtA4h1Ekdp3QZAq2K.html
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||Nine deaths, 510 fresh Covid-19 cases in Punjab||Punjab on Thursday reported five deaths and 510 fresh Covid-19 cases. With this, the state’s positive patients’ count has reached 15,456 and death toll 370.According to the state government bulletin, Ludhiana reported four deaths, followed by three in Jalandhar, and one each in Amritsar, Hoshiarpur and Patiala. Besides three deaths, 62 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Jalandhar. The district has reported 2,227 positive cases and 52 deaths so far, while 1,701 patients have been discharged. The active patients’ count in the district is 474. In the Kapurthala, 11 people contracted the infection and a 29-year-old Kapurthala woman died in a Jalandhar private hospital. Four Covid-19 patients died while 142 tested positive in Ludhiana. The dead include two from Ludhiana and one each from Jalandhar and Patiala. A 67-year-old man of Akash Avenue in Amritsar died after testing positive for Covid19 at local hospital. Besides, the district reported 67 fresh cases. Also on Thursday, six fresh Covid-19 cases were reported from Gurdaspur and 13 from Tarn Taran.Seventy-six people tested positive for Covid-19 in Ferozepur, making it the district’s highest single-day spike. Sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Amit Gupta said an 85-year-old co-morbid patient was tested positive for coronavirus two days after his death.Two accused in the police custody and three NRIs are among tested positive in Ferozepur.On Tuesday, Ferozepur reported 39 patients, including three health workers, police personnel and bank staffers.An Indian Forest Officer (IFS) Kanwardeep Singh, who today joined as Covid patient tracking officer (CPTO) in Ferozepur, said soon the private hospitals will be roped in to build an emergency support plan.Owing to the rising Covid cases, the Ferozepur district administration on Thursday suspended public dealings at the deputy commissioner (DC) office indefinitely. Twenty-five people tested positive for the virus in Patiala district. Of these, 17 are from Patiala, one each from Rajpura, Nabha, two from Samana and four are from various villages.Twenty-three persons, including 17 residents of Kotkapura town, tested positive for covid-19 in Faridkot district. Besides, nine persons contracted the infection in Moga.The station house officer (SHO) city police station Sangrur and six cops were among 12 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Sangrur district on Thursday. PVT HOSPITALS TO PROVIDE TREATMENT TO REFERRED PATIENTS The Punjab government on Thursday directed the all private hospitals, nursing homes and clinics to provide tertiary care to Covid-19 patients referred by the health department. The directions have been issued under the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897. Health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the government took the decision in view of rising cases of coronavirus across the state. “The health services will be extended on the billing system for referred COVID-19 patients. The cost of treatment will be reimbursed as per CGHS Chandigarh rates,” he said. 22 IAS, IPS, IFS OFFICERS DEPUTED AS COVID PATIENT TRACKING OFFICERS To impart quality treatment to every covid patient, the Punjab government has deputed 22 IAS, IPS, IFS and PCS officers as covid patient tracking officers (CPTOs). Chief secretary Vini Mahajan said amid the increasing number of coronavirus cases in the state, the state government has designated these officers as CPTOs to ensure coordination and expeditious response at the district level by tracking of patients from the time that they test positive, till the completion of their treatment. These officers would perform their role as CTPOs in addition to their current duties and will report to deputy commissioners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nine-deaths-510-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-punjab/story-Q8zuuDGhXyXvRIln7cJV3M.html
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||Victim of July 26 hit-and-run case succumbs to injuries||A 32-year-old man who was critically injured after a sport utility vehicle (SUV) hit his bicycle on July 26 in a hit-and-run case near Zirakpur died at Chandigarh’s Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research on Thursday. Satinder Sharma was from Bihar and worked as a carpenter. He was living in Aerocity on rent. Sharma was on his way to Zirakpur from Sohana when he was hit by the SUV near Bakarpur village on Airport Road and was taken to the Mohali Civil Hospital, from where he was referred to PGIMER. “When Satinder reached Bakarpur chowk, a speeding Toyota Innova coming from behind hit him and he fell, sustaining multiple injuries. The car driver sped away from the spot. The victim was shifted to the Civil Hospital in Phase 6 here from where he was referred to PGI, where he succumbed to his injuries last night,” said Bir Chand, the investigation officer.A case has been registered against the driver by the Sohana police. He is yet to be identified but is likely to be arrested soon “ as we have the vehicle’s registration number, which was noted by a passer-by during the incident,” Bir Chand said. The postmortem of the victim was conducted on Thursday and his body handed over to the family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/victim-of-july-26-hit-and-run-case-succumbs-to-injuries/story-uaLxC9xy0fpfKYpaUQ9WDN.html
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||Fraudster posing as food supplies officer lands in police net||A fraudster posing as a food supplies officer was arrested on Thursday by the police for extorting money from shopkeepers by threatening to fine them.In an FIR against Manpreet Singh of Guru Teg Bahadur Nagar on the statement of grocery shop owner Sanjiv Kumar of New Moti Nagar, it was alleged that Singh turned up at the market on July 27 posing as a food supplies official. Singh then told the shopkeepers that he would collect samples of eatables from their shops and send these to a laboratory to be tested for adulteration and slap hefty fines on them.The accused demanded ₹5,000 from those who did not want the food samples collected. However, when asked for identity proof he quickly left the spot and the shopkeepers informed the police.Sanjiv Kumar added that Singh had extorted Rs 1,500 from him six months ago from him using the same tactics.Inspector Mohamad Jamil, station house officer at the Focal Point police station said Manpreet Singh had been arrested and a case under Sections 419, 420 and 170 of Indian Penal Code had been lodged against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fraudster-posing-as-food-supplies-officer-lands-in-police-net/story-IXP9VHmgTZpWaKIm8gTt6L.html
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC to rent out booths under Sector 17/22 subways, Sec 39-D and Mauli Jagran||The Chandigarh municipal corporation will be offering vacant booths on rent at the Sector 17/22 subway, Sector 39-D and Mauli Jagran after failing to auction these on leasehold basis.The move follows MC’s failure to get the UT administration’s nod to sell these booths on freehold basis.Earlier in a bid to attract buyers, the MC house had decided to auction the shops but did not get a response from the administration and so decided to change its strategy at Thursday’s general house meeting.A cash-strapped MC has been failing to sell properties in most locations and spending money on their upkeep even as buyers have expressed no interest in leasehold properties. COMPREHENSIVE POLICY ON RENTING MC PROPERTIESDuring its meeting the house decided to formulate a policy to rent out the booths and shops, but said it should be leased out for three years with an extension for two additional years instead of a year as proposed.Commercial properties under MC that could not be sold or leased will also be included.A sub-committee will be formed to assess market costs and finalise rates.However, 40 booths under the new overbridge in Sector 17 will be excluded as MC has started the process toe-auction them for rent.MC Commissioner KK Yadav has said that the committee will table its report at the next general house meeting. “It will asses the prevailing market rent and accordingly compile its report.”SURVEY OF EATERIESThe MC general house approved the agenda to allow eateries to put out chairs and tables outside during lunch and dinner hours. Directing MC officials to conduct a survey of the eateries and report on the demand, it said the enforcing wing should start a drive against people running eateries without permissions.Earlier, BJP city chief and councilor Arun Sood suggested that the proposed increase in monthly rentals should be reviewed and imposed on the basis of location of the units.MALOYA GAUSHALA OPERATIONS TO BE OUTSOURCEDThe MC decided that an expression of interest (EoI) will be invited for the running of the Maloya Gaushala (cow shelter). “It will be open for all. Whosoever is in the trade can apply and those eligible will be allowed to run the gaushala,” said MC commissioner KK Yadav at the house meeting.The development came after a request for additional funds for the gaushala was rejected by the house. Some councillors suggested that instead of paying more for gaushala operations it should be handed over to NGOs who could run it free of cost.The MC will also come up with a policy to check handing over of stray cattle caught by MC to their owners. “Other than villages, there is only one locality where cattle rearing is allowed. The MC should stop handing over stray cattle caught in areas other than this locality,” said BJP Councilor Shakti Prakash Devshali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mc-to-rent-out-booths-under-sector-17-22-subways-sec-39-d-and-mauli-jagran/story-EHCmTf6tPVmjkxBw4IkMWO.html
31-07-2020||Delhi||Better segregation of biomedical waste needed: EPCA||The Supreme Court-appointed Environment Protection (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA), in its report released on Thursday highlighting the status of handling of biomedical waste in Delhi-NCR, said that in July, Delhi generated around 350 tonnes of medical waste from Covid-19 patients daily.The report also suggested the need for better segregation of biomedical waste in households and quarantine centres housing Covid-19 patients.The report stated that the volume of waste generated in June was marginally higher, 372.47 tonnes per day, but this was because biomedical waste from patients in home isolation and quarantine centres was not segregated and so general waste was mixed with it. In May, the quantum of biomedical waste generated was 25.187 tonnes per day.Also, it said that due to the Covid-19 pandemic, there was an increase in the amount of plastic waste being generated in the form of PPE kits, gloves and face shields, among others, which in turn was adding to the problems of general solid waste management in the city. “The collection of such waste—which is not from infected households or quarantine centres—is a huge challenge as it increases the need for segregation at the household level so that general waste can be recycled and is not sent to landfills,” the report stated.The report is based on the data shared by the Central Pollution Control Board and state pollution control boards of Delhi, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh (UP) and Rajasthan.“CPCB assesses that at the current rate of biomedical waste generation and if there is adequate segregation, then the Common Biomedical Waste Treatment Facilities (CBWTFs) are adequate in the region,” it said.Data shows that at this rate of waste generation, Delhi can treat 2,220 tonnes of waste per month while Haryana can treat 288 tonnes per month, UP 1,656 tonnes per month and Rajasthan can treat 72 tonnes per month.It further said that while the system for the collection of biomedical waste from healthcare facilities and registered laboratories is well established, the biomedical waste generated in homes and quarantine centres is where the key complication arises, as urban local bodies (and increasingly village panchayats, as positive cases increase in rural areas) have to track patients in realtime and then set up systems for the collection of waste from individual households located in different parts of the city.The municipal corporations—North, East, South, New Delhi, Gurgaon, Faridabad and Ghaziabad—have told the SC panel that they had set up systems to collect the waste from individual households and quarantine centres and send it to CBWTFs.However, the report pointed out that the South and North Delhi municipal corporations were sending the biomedical waste to Waste-To-Energy plants instead of CBWTFs.“WTEs are not designed to incinerate biomedical waste, which needs a double insulator and protocols for storage and emission control,” the report highlights.To this, a senior North Corporation official, who didn’t wish to be named, said, “We are investigating the possibility of sending the waste to a CBWTF and will try to ensure the same.”In its recommendations, Epca also urged the SC to direct the ministry of forests and environment (MoEF) and CPCB to work out a national bar-coding system (a portal) for tracking of biomedical waste. “The task must not be left to CBWTFs, as it will not allow for good management,” it said.Epca chairman Bhure Lal said that so far the handling of biomedical waste has been satisfactory, however, all states need to maintain a strict vigil. “An issue with the collection and segregation of waste was observed in houses under isolation as well as at quarantine centres. Households must be educated about the same and must cooperate in the task for better management of such waste and not allowing infection to spread at all,” said Lal.Experts said that there could be a waste crisis if proactive steps are not taken by government agencies to handle the biomedical waste.They said considering the scale of the Covid-19 infection, the government will need to come up with a detailed plan to tackle biomedical waste generated in hospitals, quarantine centres and households. Sirajuddin Ahmed, a professor at the civil engineering department in Jamia Milia Islamia, said that either the government needs to make arrangements of dedicated trash bins for the disposal of hazardous waste such as masks and gloves, or it should be made mandatory that residents’ welfare associations, market associations and other commercial establishments place such bins on their premises for segregating this category of waste.“We are seeing a surge of not only biomedical waste in hospitals but also in households now. The key to tackling this waste is to provide people with the facility to dispose of this gear safely. The government will also need to create more awareness among citizens on the need for segregating such waste,” Ahmed said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/better-segregation-of-biomedical-waste-needed-epca/story-kFPfSxdkGZEbaHNs12DVZM.html
31-07-2020||Delhi||Patients with SARI to not be tested via rapid antigen method, orders govt||The Delhi government on Thursday removed patients admitted to hospitals with Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) from the list of high-risk individuals to be tested for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) via the rapid antigen method. This comes after the Delhi high court directed the state government to adhere to the guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research, which does not include it in its criteria for using the point-of-care tests that can give results within 15 minutes. “…testing strategies… using Rapid Antigen Detection test are hereby amended by deleting ‘All patients admitted with SARI’ from the list of high risk group of individuals who are compulsorily required to be tested for Covid-19 using Rapid Antigen Detection test with immediate effect,” the order by principal health secretary Vikram Dev Dutt read. The category has been removed from the government orders of July 5 and 7, which will now use rapid antigen tests only for those with influenza-like illnesses, hospitalised patients undergoing chemotherapy, those who are immunocompromised, including those living with HIV, patients who have cancer, transplant patients, and those above the age of 65 with comorbid conditions such as diabetes and hypertension.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/patients-with-sari-to-not-be-tested-via-rapid-antigen-method-orders-govt/story-cN38OeiWdifBBkym5OkUPN.html
31-07-2020||Delhi||Discontinuation of MPhil may affect research at PhD level: Scholars||Academicians and research scholars in several Delhi universities have raised concerns over the discontinuation of the MPhil programme under the New Education Policy (NEP), saying that it will affect the quality of research at PhD level as well as put a question mark over the validity of degrees of the researchers who are currently pursuing the programme.The Union Human Resource Development (HRD) ministry on Wednesday announced the NEP under which the two-year M.Phil programme shall be discontinued. Students will now be allowed to take admission in PhD directly after postgraduation or a four-year undergraduate degree with research.Academicians said that MPhil creates a “stronger base” for PhD. Moushumi Basu, an associate professor at Jawaharlal Nehru University’s (JNU) Centre for International Politics, Organization and Disarmament, said, “In a University like JNU, which is research-based, MPhil is very useful. It provides research scholars with breathing space for learning skills. Most postgraduate programmes in our country do not provide students with opportunities to write independently. They mostly have term papers, and the jump from term papers to thesis writing is too big. MPhil helps settle people into the rigour of research.” JNU offers over 300 MPhil seats in various subjects.Sheema Aleem, an associate professor in the Department of Psychology in Jamia Millia Islamia said that students do pursue PhD without an MPhil, but the latter makes a “huge difference” in developing their understanding for research. “The main reason why we recommend an MPhil before PhD is because it helps students understand the research methodologies well. It is like a stepping stone towards a PhD,” she said.Several academicians said that the master’s courses should be overhauled and more research components added. “Till now, MPhil has been playing the role of the first research-based degree. The universities will now have to completely change the structure of postgraduate courses by adding a research component at least for those who want to pursue a PhD in the future. Otherwise, the quality of PhD researches in the country will be compromised,” said Rekha Saxena, a professor at Delhi University’s Department of Political Science. DU offers around 200 MPhil seats in different subjects.Several research scholars pursuing MPhil said that the government should issue some clarity over the validity of their degrees now. Anuj Borboruah, 25, a resident of Assam’s Tezpur and a first-year student of MPhil in law and governance at JNU, said that he has learned the basics of research in the last year only. “There was no focus on research in our master’s programme. MPhil has given me some time to think about how to explore my area of interest in research. But now I am really scared whether my degree will remain valid even after the discontinuation of the programme,” he said.Kuldeep Singh, 28, a final-year MPhil scholar at Ambedkar University, said that discontinuation of the programme might reduce the number of job opportunities for many. “It was really shocking for me. I do not know if MPhil will help us get a job now. We will have to do a PhD even for applying for a teaching job. We just don’t know what’s going to happen now. The move will also affect the higher studies aspirations of students like me who cannot afford to pursue courses continuously and have to take breaks to work and earn,” he said.Some academicians, however, said that the move will not make much difference. JNU vice-chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar said that the move will save students’ time. “The advantage of applying directly to PhD after MA and MSc is that they can do their course work in the first year and in the next two or three years, they can complete their research work. Under this system, students have the opportunity to complete their PhD within four years. It will save a lot of time,” he said.Malabika Sarkar, the vice-chancellor of Ashoka University, said that MPhil does not hold any significance internationally. “Pursuing a PhD after completion of a master’s degree is better. It should be mandatory for students to complete a mini-thesis within five years of their undergraduate and postgraduate programmers before pursuing a PhD,” she said.Meanwhile, confusion prevailed over admissions to the MPhil programmes this year. Almost all universities, including DU and JNU, have already received thousands of applications for admission to MPhil for the session 2020-21. Shobha Bagai, the dean of admissions in DU, said, “We are yet to get any clarity over admission to MPhil this year from the government. Till then we cannot stop accepting applications,” she said.A spokesperson at MHRD said that a notification will be issued in this regard soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/discontinuation-of-mphil-may-affect-research-at-phd-level-scholars/story-sJV8ZwsLQtgki2zzeHICyL.html
31-07-2020||Delhi||Health ministry to replicate Delhi’s Covid-19 model in other states||The Union health ministry intends to replicate the “successful Delhi model” in other states with large outbreaks of Covid-19, a Union health ministry official said on Thursday, citing the example of how authorities in the national capital were able to bring down a key metric – the case positivity rate – from 37% in June to 6% this week.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageCase positivity rate refers to the number of people found positive among all people who are tested for Covid-19 on a particular day – a proportion that determines how prevalent the disease is and how well health officials are able to catch and isolate patients. “The improved numbers show that test, trace and treat strategy has worked very well and Delhi is a prime example before us as it managed to successfully contain the disease spread with the help of the centre. The situation is being managed in two ways: keeping the infection low, and also keeping the mortality low. Experts have shown that in 80% of the positive cases it is possible to trace close contacts within 72 hours. This model will have to be adopted in other states also,” said Rajesh Bhushan, officer on special duty, health ministry. In an interview to HT on July 18, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal credited a five-point “Delhi Model” – increased testing, home isolation of mild cases, availability of hospital beds, transparency of data, and plasma therapy – for helping the region become one of the few in the country to be able to rein in the outbreak.On Thursday, the health ministry’s Bhushan reiterated there was no community transmission in the country. “In India, there are clusters of cases and pockets of localised transmission, and the solution to contain it lies in aggressive testing, effective surveillance, contact tracing and clinical management of those infected to be able to fight it successfully,” he said. Bhushan also referred to the one million recoveries, a milestone India passed on Wednesday and said it “shows how much effort has been put in by our doctors, nurses, paramedic and other frontline workers in managing the outbreak”. India’s case fatality rate also declined from 3.33% on June 18 to 2.21% on July 30, he said, adding: “Our target is to bring the case fatality rate to 1% or less, and case positivity rate to 10% in first phase, and later to 5% in states with high case load as per the World Health Organization (WHO) guidelines,” said Bhushan. Eight states have achieved a case fatality rate of 1% and below. “The ultimate aim is to save lives and it is a positive trend that we are losing fewer patients as compared to other Covid-19 affected countries,” says Dr GC Khilnani, former head, pulmonology department, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/health-ministry-to-replicate-delhi-s-covid-19-model-in-other-states/story-sh1gIPVs2mK4nWxqdh7qaJ.html
31-07-2020||City||Manish Sisodia hits out at new education policy||Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday said that the New Education Policy (NEP) endorses a “highly regulated” and “poorly funded” model of education, which is silent about the means required to reach the targets it aimed to achieve.“The new education policy states that 6% of the total GDP will be spent on the education sector. However, it is silent on how this will be implemented. There should be a law ensuring mandatory 6% expenditure of the GDP on education. The government should bring the law. This was said in 1966 by the Kothari Commission but never implemented till date despite demands,” Sisodia said during a media briefing on Thursday. Sisodia’s remarks came a day after the union Human Resource Development (HRD) ministry, which has now been renamed as the education ministry, introduced the policy to bring in wide-ranging reforms aimed at making the Indian education system more contemporary and skill-oriented.The Union education ministry did not respond to requests for comment.Sisodia said the NEP recognises the flaws in the current education system but was unable to break free of the pressures of traditions. “The nation was waiting for a new education policy for 34 years. It is here now. It is a forward-looking document, which accepts the flaws of today’s education system but has two issues with it — it was unable to break free of the pressures of education’s old traditions and does not say how the reforms that it aims to bring in will be achieved,” he said. Sisodia said the NEP mentions setting up a regulatory body at every level but it can create a lot of “confusion” in the functioning of the education ministry. The Delhi education minister said that the new policy is ambiguous about bringing classes up to 12 under the ambit of the Right to Education (RTE) Act that currently mandates free and compulsory education till Class 8. “In six years of deliberations, if you could not resolve the issue of funding and bringing entire school education under the Right to Education Act, how do you propose to implement the policy?” Sisodia said.Expressing apprehensions over the two models of Early Childhood Education -- Anganwadi model and the pre-school model -- proposed in NEP, Sisodia said, “In such a situation, while one set of children will receive ECE through anganwadi workers another will be through trained Nursery teachers. What kind of equity are we securing if we have discrimination so early in the life of a child?”Sisodia said the NEP does not touch upon how the central government is planning to improve the education system in its schools. “It is the responsibility of the government to provide quality education to children. The policy has no direct emphasis on the government school system. It rather seeks to encourage private philanthropists. The policy should have been explicit on committing to provide quality education by the government instead of encouraging private education,” he said.Sisodia also said that the policy does not talk about the training of teachers and promotion of sports in educational institutions. “The policy talks about making the board examination easier but it misses the point by saying so. It is not about a hard or easy exam, it is about assessing the learning, understanding and application,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sisodia-hits-out-at-new-education-policy/story-05d7m9gNQJAom4EF9b2b1K.html
31-07-2020||Delhi||Unlock 3: Hotels, banquets in Delhi can open, no decision on gyms||The Delhi government has decided to allow hotels, hospitality services, street hawkers to operate and do away with the night curfew hours applicable between 10pm and 5am under the Centre’s Unlock 3 plan, the third phase of the gradual lifting of curbs announced to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe Delhi government will allow weekly bazars to operate for a week on a trial basis to check if social distancing norms are adhered to. An official order to implement the relaxations in Delhi is likely to be issued by Saturday, said a senior government official.However, even though the Centre has allowed gymnasiums and yoga centres to operate, the Delhi government is yet to take a call on it. Senior government officials said that L-G Anil Baijal in his meeting with Kejriwal on Wednesday had expressed his unwillingness to open gyms and yoga centres as of now. “So, the chief minister has said that a decision on this will be taken in a week’s time after consulting with al stakeholders,” an official said. A media advisor to the chief minister said marriages/events with the restriction of 50 people can now be held in banquet halls, which come under the hospitality services.The Union home ministry issued the plan, “Unlock 3”, on Wednesday prepared after receiving feedback from states and in consultation held with central ministries and departments, to open up more activities outside containment zones.“These decisions are in continuation of several important decisions taken by CM Arvind Kejriwal in the past few days to ensure Delhi’s economy, which was impacted severely by the lockdown, gets back on track,” said a a statement issued by the office of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday.Regarding hotels, the statement said, “Since hotels of Delhi are no longer linked to hospitals, Delhi government has also decided to allow normal functioning of hotels and hospitality services, as already permitted under Centre’s unlock guidelines.”The Delhi government had on Wednesday de-linked around 40 hotels and 77 banquet halls attached to different hospitals to augment the city’s Covid-19 bed capacity.Sandeep Khandelwal, president of Delhi Hotel and Restaurant Owners’ Association, said: “It is a great relief for thousands of people who are directly or indirectly employed with the hotel industry – from managers, housekeeping staff, chefs and waiters to plumbers, electricians and scores of other people engaged in different roles. Now that the economy is reviving, it may take a month or two, but business will get back to normal very soon.”Gym owners said they expect the government to allow them to operate soon. Chirag Sethi, vice-president Delhi Gym Association, said: “This is a very tough situation for us. We expect the government to allow gyms to open as soon as possible because livelihood of over a lakh people in Delhi depend on fitness industry. More wait will cause more revenue loss for the industry which had been completely shut for over 120 days. Gym owners have already started sanitisation of their gyms and are preparing SOPs (standard operating procedures) to operate gyms and fitness centres. We will meet the CM tomorrow and appeal the government to open gyms without any further delay.”Arbind Singh, national convener of National Association of Street Vendors in India, said: “It is a welcome move because street vendors are struggling since the lockdown was implemented. Now, the government should urgently implement the street vendor law so that designated spots can be earmarked for them. That would help ensuring better safety norms and social distancing in the days to come.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/unlock-3-hotels-banquets-in-delhi-can-open-no-decision-on-gyms/story-wnNVlhw3h8EQ4ZtPgpJtyL.html
31-07-2020||Delhi||Containment zones can now be de-notified in 14 days instead of 28||Containment zones in Delhi can now be de-notified in two weeks — down from 28 days, from the day the last Covid-19 patient in the area recovers, the state health department said on Thursday, a move that will bring significant relief to residents of some red zones in the city that have been contained for months. The decision to relax containment norms, taken by the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoH&FW) on Wednesday, had been a long-standing demand of the Delhi government, with several containment zones in the national capital having been under complete lockdown for more than three months now.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe health ministry had on Wednesday issued an office memorandum to all states and union territories, saying a few states had experienced continuing outbreaks in some containment zones (CZs) and buffer zones (that encircle the CZs), keeping them under lockdown for months. “In such cases, to have another period of 28 days, to de-notify such CZs brings hardships to its residents. Hence, some states have requested to review the same,” it said.The Delhi government on Thursday welcomed the move and said all district administrations have been asked to now follow the new rules issued by the health ministry. “Delhi was one the first states to urge the Centre to reduce the number of days it takes to de-seal a containment zone. The new guidelines will be strictly followed in Delhi. Aggressive contact tracing and active surveillance of high risk groups and symptomatic persons will continue in such areas,” the chief minister’s office said. The union health ministry’s document mentioned that states which have CZs with prolonged lockdowns may choose to de-notify a containment zone “14 days after discharge of the last confirmed case (instead of 28 days)”.Also read: Health ministry to replicate Delhi’s Covid-19 model in other states“The surveillance operations will be scaled down if no laboratory-confirmed Covid-19 case is reported from the containment zone for at least 14 days after the last confirmed case has been isolated and all the contacts of the confirmed case have been followed up for 14 days,” the document seen by HT read. However, the central government also made it clear that surveillance for influenza-like illnesses (ILI), severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) and rigorous testing for these will continue in de-notified containment and buffer zones. “If further positive cases emerge in the de-notified containment or buffer zone, the area will again be declared as a containment zone and the containment process shall begin afresh,” the memorandum read.A city/district/state can be declared “free from the disease outbreak” only after 28 days have passed since the last confirmed case has been tested negative through an RT-PCR diagnosis.The Centre, however, also came down on states and union territories for not being able to break the chain of transmission for prolonged periods in some containment zones. “It is noted that such continuing outbreaks in CZ/BZs reflect less than satisfactory active surveillance, contact testing, testing and inadequate adherence to home isolation guidelines. Hence, to avoid such a situation, the CZ needs to be redefined, surveillance strengthened and testing increased manifold,” it said.As on Thursday, Delhi had 694 containment zones and at least 300,000 people live in such areas. There were at least five areas in Delhi that had been contained for over three months, including GTB Enclave’s E-block, K and G blocks in Jahangirpuri, Majlis Park in Adarsh Nagar and Hauz Rani. Apart from this, two lanes in southeast Delhi’s Chandni Mahal were under lockdown for at least 88 days.In an interview with HT on July 18, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said the Centre’s rules on containment zones needed serious reconsideration, adding that the Delhi government had made multiple requests to the Central government to relax containment norms in the city. “The Centre’s rule says that if there is no new Covid case for 28 days straight then that area can be de-contained. But if even a single new Covid case emerges in a containment zone then it will remain under lockdown for 28 more days. As a result there are some containment zones which are under lockdown for 3-4 months. People are very distressed in these zones because they are completely locked down in their houses.“We have spoken to the Central government, to the Union health and family welfare ministry and have requested them to fix an outer time limit as well. Just like a country cannot be under a permanent lockdown, localities too cannot operate that way. Permanent lockdown cannot be a long-term solution. The Central government has appreciated our feedback and said that similar complaints have come from other states too. They are now revising the guidelines,” Kejriwal had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/containment-zones-can-now-be-de-notified-in-14-days-instead-of-28/story-egIGZEEI1B5ki2lnoxlLsO.html
31-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt sets up 4 panels to monitor deaths in hospitals with higher fatality rates||Even as the number of deaths due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Delhi has dropped, the government has set up four committees of four members each to inspect hospitals and wards that are reporting the highest number of deaths. The panels have been asked to submit their suggestions on reducing deaths by August 3 to principal health secretary Vikram Dev Dutt, the order states. “It has been observed that the percentage of deaths vis-à-vis admissions and the percentage of Covid-19 deaths in wards in 11 hospitals, government and private, is on the higher side during the period July 1 to July 23, 2020. Four committee comprising of specialists, two from internal medicine and another two from anaesthesia, have been constituted for inspecting the allotted hospitals to examine whether the standard treatment protocols for treating Covid patients are being followed,” an order from the health secretary Padmini Singla read. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe hospitals to be inspected include private ones like Fortis Escorts Heart Institute, Max Hospital (Saket), St Stephen’s hospital, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, Jaipur Golden hospital and Sri Balaji Action Medical Institute, and government facilities such as Ram Manohar Lohia, Safdarjung, Lok Nayak, and GTB hospitals. Some of the Capital’s major Covid-19 treatment facilities, these hospitals often receive many patients with severe symptoms.The committee consists of doctors from hospitals managing Covid-19 like Lok Nayak and Safdarjung as well as non-Covid hospitals like Deen Dayal Upadhyay hospital, Lal Bahadur Shastri Hospital, and Aruna Asaf Ali government hospital. “There has been a reduction in the number of deaths due to corona, however, we need to reduce it further. Today, we constituted four committees that will inspect hospitals and provide suggestion --- 1. Where there have been more deaths, 2. Where there have been more deaths in the wards, meaning patients were not moved to the ICU on time,” said Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal in a tweet. On Thursday, Delhi recorded 29 deaths due to Covid-19 across the city, taking the total toll to 3,936. On average, the city recorded about 27 deaths during the previous week. This is almost one-fifth of the 101 deaths – the highest number of deaths recorded in the city on one day, according to data shared by the CM office earlier. This puts the city’s case fatality rate – percentage of people who have died among the number of infections detected – at 2.9%. This comes after the government had asked a 12-member court-appointed committee — that had been tasked with providing suggestions about patient care — to look into reducing deaths as well. “I haven’t received the orders yet. Once we do, we will decide along with other committee members what aspects we have to observe. Most likely we have to see whether they have adequate facilities and whether the standard of care was followed. However, from what I have seen at our hospital, the mortality has actually gone down significantly now and the patients who do die are the ones who have multiple co-morbid conditions such as uncontrolled diabetes with kidney disease etc. The young or relatively healthy people who do die sometimes are those who reach the hospital late when their oxygen saturation is already very low,” said one of the committee members from Lok Nayak hospital, on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-sets-up-4-panels-to-monitor-deaths-in-hospitals-with-higher-fatality-rates/story-KGaxIwEkk4QJCu5sK75TwN.html
31-07-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram’s first plasma bank operational; 5 recovered patients donate plasma||The district administration on Thursday inaugurated Gurugram’s first convalescent plasma bank for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients at the Rotary Blood Bank in Sector 10. Five recovered Covid-19 patients donated their plasma to the blood bank, including 37-year-old Krishna Murari, a resident of Sector 10, who was the first person to donate plasma. Out of the eight people who reached the blood bank, only five could donate plasma, after fulfilling all the criteria for donation, as per the doctors present at the blood bank. Till the first half of the day no activity took place, while in the evening, five people gave their plasma after going through screening and blood tests, which included the antibody test for Covid-19.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Detected Covid-19 positive on June 10 after having fever-like symptoms, Murari was under home isolation till June 28. “During that period, I received calls regarding plasma donation. But as told by doctors, plasma can only be donated after 14 days of recovery. So I had to wait for it. I was comfortable donating my plasma as I have been donating blood for a long time,” said Murari. Dr Mahima Kilhor, medical officer at Rotary Blood Bank, who is also the nodal in-charge of the plasma bank, said, “Only those patients who have recovered from the illness can donate plasma 14 days of their recovery. One unit of plasma collected can be used for two patients. The bank can store over 1000 units of plasma, which can be used on Covid-19 patients admitted in private and government hospitals. The bank has one plasmapheresis machine that separates plasma from the blood and transfuses the blood back into the body of the donor.” Currently, the bank has 10 units of plasma for Covid-19 patients. Convalescent plasma therapy uses antibodies generated in the body against the SARS-CoV-2 virus. Plasma, a component of blood, contains these antibodies. When the plasma is administered to a Covid-19 patients, it boosts their immunity to fight against the infection. It is still an experimental therapy approved by the Central health ministry. The plasma therapy has previously been used during the SARS and MERS outbreaks, which were also caused by viruses from the same family as the Sars-CoV-2.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Doctors said that nearly 70 Covid-19 recovered patient have given confirmation for donation. Till date, 8,989 coronavirus cases have been reported in Gurugram, with 77 new cases on Thursday. Out of the total cases, 991 are active patients while 7,876 have recovered. The Covid-19 toll stands at 122. As reported by HT on Thursday, convalescent plasma for Covid-19 patients will be issued on a signed request of the authorised nodal officer of the hospital where the patient is undergoing treatment, along with the medical superintendent of the district health department. The cost of plasma unit has been fixed at ₹8,500 and it will be free for BPL card holders and pregnant women. In July, PGIMS-Rohtak became the first government hospitals in the state to start plasma therapy. Dr Dhruv Chaudhary, head, pulmonary and critical care medicine department, PGIMS-Rohtak, who is also Haryana’s nodal officer for Covid-19, said, “Plasma has been collected from 15 recovered Covid-19 patients. Since one unit can suffice two patients, we have stock for 30 patients. But as a part of the trial study, we have transfused plasma in eight patients. It is difficult to share the inferences as the sample size is small. Some of them have responded to the plasma therapy while a few of them succumbed to the illness.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-s-first-plasma-bank-becomes-operational-5-recovered-patients-donate-plasma/story-ggTbqulyvjov4KvUDu8uiN.html
31-07-2020||Mumbai||Tiger ranges across south Konkan need protection, says forest department||The Maharashtra forest department has suggested the retention of 33 villages in the Western Ghats ranges of Kolhapur and Sindhudurg districts as a part of an eco-sensitive area (ESA). The forest department has highlighted the presence of tigers and the importance of connectivity of wildlife corridors. It is learnt that a formal communication has been sent to the state government. “These villages in the Sahyadri-Konkan wildlife corridor are critically important and should be part of the ESA. It will improve the ecosystem and boost tiger conservation along with the conservation of its rich biodiversity. Deliberations are underway at the state level,” said a senior state forest officer. While 25 of these 33 villages are located in the Sawantwadi-Dodamarg talukas of Sindhudurg, the remaining villages are in Kolhapur district. Though some of these villages were included in the Western Ghats draft eco-sensitive zone (ESZ), the majority including the entire Dodamarg taluka where seven tigers were photographed from 2014 to 2019 was left out. The suggestion was shared by the forest department during a webinar organised on the occasion of International Tiger Day on Wednesday. The Bombay high court (HC) in 2013 and reiterated in 2018 had directed the state and Union environment ministry to ensure the corridor is protected as an ESZ.However, orders have not been complied with for the past seven years. “During this time, 1,500 acres of forests have already been lost despite a ban on tree felling in the area. Most of Sindhudurg’s forests are privately owned and such areas have been either sold or leased to mining companies making matters worse. The government needs to act immediately,” said Stalin D, director, Vanashakti and one of the petitioners. Sumaira Abdulali, convener, Awaaz Foundation that filed the first petition in the matter said, “There is a need to implement the existing court order directing the declaration of 52 villages in Dodamarg as part of the ESA.” The suggestion comes at a time when the Karnataka forest department indicated that a male tiger (T-31), whose camera trap image was recorded in 2018 from Sahyadri Tiger Reserve (STR), had travelled 300 km, covering 150 sq. km, and photographed multiple times at the Kali Tiger Reserve earlier this year. “It indicates that though the corridor may be fragmented but its functional connectivity is intact, and efforts are needed to ensure it is protected from human-induced pressures,” said Nitin Kakodkar, principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife), Maharashtra. The details follow a day after a Centre’s report on the status of tigers, co-predators and prey in India 2018 highlighted low tiger density at STR due to fragmented corridor connectivity along the north Western Ghats all the way from Kali Tiger Reserve in Karnataka to Mhadei Wildlife Sanctuary in Goa further to the recently designated Tillari Conservation Reserve in Sindhudurg district and further north to Radhanagari Wildlife Sanctuary and Chandoli National Park encompassing STR. The report suggested that linear infrastructure projects, mining and allied development activities should be avoided and in case projects are of national importance, appropriate mitigation measures be implemented. If this was done, then tigers could steadily make their way to STR over the next 10 years. Sunil Limaye, additional principal chief conservator of the forest said, “STR has an appropriate habitat, adequate connectivity, and is large enough (over 1,400sqkm) for conservation and translocation of tigers. Over the next year, we will be undertaking augmentation of the prey population followed by a proposal for translocation of tigers from the Vidarbha landscape. 25 villages of Dodamarg-Sawantwadi, their ecological significance List of villages: Kesari, Phansavde, Udeli, Dabhil- Nevli, Sarambale, Otavne, Gharpi, Asniye, Fukeri, Tamboli, Konshi, Bhalaval, Bhekurli, Kumbhavde, Khadpade, Talkat, Zolambi, Kolzhar, Shirwal, Kumbhral, Panturli, Bhike Konal, Kalane, Ugade, Padve Majgaon. Biodiversity at these villages: A rapid biodiversity assessment of the area had recorded 19 species of mammals, 12 species of amphibians, 71 species of birds, 60 species of butterflies, 2 species of damselflies, 16 species of reptiles, 4 species of scorpions, 4 species of spiders and 5 species of other invertebrates over six days. What’s at stake: Tiger corridor, villages, perennial rivers, waterfalls, streams, dense forests, swamps, wildlife in this landscape. Threats: Mining, red category industries, linear infrastructure projects, private forest areas, and tree felling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/tiger-ranges-across-south-konkan-need-protection-says-forest-department/story-4Xl0EnPOxlUTnXGQs0avWM.html
31-07-2020||Noida||105-year-old Noida woman with Alzheimer’s beats Covid-19||The SARS-CoV-2 virus may have infected more than 17 million people worldwide,but it fell flat before a 105-year-old Afghan woman in Noida, who defeated the viral infection with her sheer grit and determination to live.“ I’ll live till the Gods want me to. It’s better not to think about Covid. One should always look forward in live. I think that’s how I have lived so long. Tomorrow, I am going to offer namaaz on Eid-ul-Juha,” says Rabia Ahmadi, who tested positive for Covid on July 15 and was admitted to L-3 facility in Sharda hospital Rabia, who suffers from Alzheimer’s, was not able to recognise any of her relatives at the time of her admission to the hospital.Click here for the latest updates on the pandemic from India and around the world “The biggest challenges in her treatment were her age and the language barrier. The chronic case of Alzheimer’s. made matters worse. Taking cognisance of her critical condition, she was directly shifted to intensive care unit (ICU) and an acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) dedicated team appointed to take her care. According to Covid protocols, she remained on non-invasive ventilator support for seven days, and was given adequate high protein diet, which resulted in her showing sign of recovery,” said Dr Abhishek Deswal, the in-charge of Covid ICU unit at Sharda hospital. He added that as the patient’s non-invasive ventilation (NIV) requirement decreased, she was shifted to a oxygen mask.”Now, she has a very low oxygen requirement and is responding well,” Dr Deswal said.. Sharing more insights, Dr Ashutosh Niranjan, the medical superintendent of the hospital, said that due to dementia, Rabia often used to forget that she had been admitted to a hospital. “Instead, while sitting in her wheelchair, she often thought that she was at the airport, Dr Niranjan said. Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreak“The doctors overcame this by changing her bed frequently to keep her wavering mind steady and to keep her comfortable, while giving her the medical attention needed,” he said. He said that since Ahmadi has tested negative for Covid-19 now and doesn’t require oxygen support anymore, she will be discharged from the hospital on Friday. “She is stable now. It was an enriching and challenging experience, but the whole Covid team finally did it,” he said. When contacted, Rabia’s son Zuhib Ahmadi, with whom she stays in sector 27 here, said that his mother’s recovery was nothing less than a miracle. “Tomorrow will be the real Eid for our family. We are making sweets and sewaiyaans for her,” he said. Meanwhile, Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said that the 105-year-old woman has proved that with strong will power, Covid can be defeated easily. “We’ll salute the lady tomorrow while she is being discharged from the hospital. She is our real warrior — most elderly and most gutsy,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/105-year-old-noida-woman-with-alzheimer-s-beats-covid-19/story-0o6RL2ZI0wGmcDBZUnhgxJ.html
31-07-2020||City||Mayor, MC chief inspect Jagraon bridge site after contractor halts construction work||After the municipal corporation (MC) contractor allegedly stopped the construction work of the retaining wall of Jagraon bridge, mayor Balkar Sandhu and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal inspected the site on Thursday and ordered an inquiry into why the work was put to halt. Mayor Sandhu said, “The payment has been released to the contractor but the MC officials had informed that the contractor had stopped the construction work for the last four days, which is not acceptable and cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu has also raised concern over the same. MC commissioner Sabharwal has marked an inquiry into the matter.”Also, the mayor has marked an inquiry into the revised estimate of the work prepared by the MC officials wherein ₹40 lakh has been added to the cost due to change in the design of the work. “We will get the estimate inquired by the experts of Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College and Punjab Agricultural University (PAU).” Mayor claimed that the bridge will be opened for movement of traffic in a few days while the contractor men working at the site said that it will take at least a month to complete the work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mayor-mc-chief-inspect-jagraon-bridge-site-after-contractor-halts-construction-work/story-SHqJrrirkICBEVU1XFs4OK.html
31-07-2020||Pune||Alum Ganesh idols for a greener tomorrow||Pune: In the past couple of years, Punekars are actively supporting eco-friendly Ganesh idols. Along with clay, this year they will be opting for idols made up of alum.Mayur Dhake of Dolphin Chemicals [Bhusawal] and manufacturer of alum has also started making alum idols.“We made 500 small idols last year and distributed it to residents in our neighbourhood in Jalgaon. The response was good as it is also eco-friendly and does not cause water pollution. We had planned to make more idols this year, but settled for 3,000 due to the Covid-19 lockdown situation,” said Dhake.According to him, one idol takes 5-6 hours to be completed and more demands are coming from Pune, Jalgaon, Nashik, Satara, Aurangabad, Mumbai and Nagpur.The distribution of idols is looked after by MRP Green Window Solution – a firm that deals with eco-friendly Ganesh idols.“We are into alum industry since the last 10 years. In 2019, we tried to make Ganesh idols out of alum as it will not have adverse effect on the environment. Our aim was to add to the green efforts carried about many responsible citizens,” said Dhake.MRP Green Window Solution is busy taking orders as the transport of idols have to be monitored because of the lockdown restrictions in place at many areas.“People generally opt for clay [shadu] idols, but it does not dissolve completely in water. The idols made of alum do not leave any trace as it is soluble,” said a spokesperson of MRP Green Window Solution.The alum Ganesh idols became popular after a video went viral on YouTube last year. This year, idols will be home delivered as a preventive measure against coronavirus.“Customers need not have to venture out of their residential areas for immersion as idols can be immersed in water tanks in the neighbourhood,” said MRP Green Window Solution representative.“I have booked for a seven-inch idol. It is water-friendly and many from our residential society have also made these orders,” said Sunita Marne from Sunita Park, Shivtirthnagar, Kothrud.Eco-friendly way of worship Benefits:No water pollutionEasily soluble in house tankAlum is used for purification of waterPrice:7 inch; 2.500 kg: Rs 45016 inch; 15-20kg: Rs 3000Available in 11 designsContact for order: 9881880029; 8956564646||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/alum-ganesh-idols-for-a-greener-tomorrow/story-je1Ck9Slc4EetYfQjdJEUJ.html
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC to remove legacy waste from Dadumajra plant||The municipal corporation will shift 25,000 metric tonnes of legacy waste from the waste processing plant to a dumping site in Dadumajra. This was approved in the MC General House meeting on Thursday. Legacy waste comprises garbage collecting for years. Work to clear 5 lakh metric tonnes of legacy waste at the dumping site is already underway as part of a Rs 35-crore project. MC commissioner KK Yadav said, “The committee that examined the issue earlier will decide how to go about the process.”On the demand of adding councillors to the committee, Yadav said, “There are already three councillors in the committee in addition to MC officials.”MC took over the plant from Jaypee Group on June 19 and has been running the plant since. It had signed an agreement with Jaypee in 2005 for setting up a garbage processing plant. But in February this year, the MC House had ordered a takeover because it observed that the plant was not being operated to its optimum capacity.“Legacy waste has to be shifted so that the waste processing plant can run properly. We will shift the legacy waste to the dumping site in phases so that it does not burden the removal process,” said a senior MC official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mc-to-remove-25m-legacy-waste-from-waste-processing-plant/story-6G0gQ7XU0yiniakeStx6jO.html
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity gyms gear up to get back on the fitness track after four months||With apps to book workout sessions and sanitisation of equipment after each use, work has begun on a war footing to put Covid-19 safety measures in place in gyms, which are opening up from August 5 after a four-month shutdown. Temperature checks at entrances and sanitisation of equipment after every session will be done.As per Unlock 3 guidelines issued by the Union home ministry on Wednesday, yoga institutions and gyms reopen from August 5.Manu Sharma, manager of Bodyscapes Fitness Temple, Sector 34-A, says, “We have received a positive response from our clients. Many of them are looking forward to rejoining the gym. We are hiring extra staff to ensure temperature checks at the entrance and regular sanitisation of equipment. A mobile application will also be developed to help clients book sessions.”Though the ministry of health and family welfare has yet to issue standard operating procedures for gyms, Abhishek Gagneja, owner of Ultimate Fitness Gyms, which has branches in Chandigarh, Mohali and Zirakpur, says they have worked out their safety routine. “Workout slots will be issued and only 10 persons will attend a session. We will not provide mats and water to clients and steam baths will not be allowed. Trainers will also not be allowed to physically touch the clients.”CLIENTS TO GIVE UNDERTAKING Jaspreet Soni, founder of Ohio gym and spa, which has branches in Mohali, Kharar and Ludhiana, says they will be taking an undertaking from clients that they have not shown any symptoms of Covid-19 in the last month. “Clients will book sessions through a mobile application and after every session equipment will be sanitised. No physical sessions will be held with trainers. They will provide training online.”However, some gym regulars are not too keen to visit, with Navneet Sharma of Mohali’s Phase 3B2, saying, “I would prefer to exercise at home as one could contract infection at the gym.”Sanjeev Kumar, president, Tricity Gym Owners’ Association, says he was waiting for detailed operating procedures to see how many people will be allowed in the gyms at a time.”The government should consider allowing a good number of people per session so that gyms can sustain themselves,” he adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/apps-to-book-sessions-equipment-cleaned-after-each-use-tricity-gyms-gear-up-to-get-back-on-the-fitness-track-after-4-months/story-EZJj0sgirXwZCRloeMP6DK.html
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||Rise in snatching cases alarming, no leniency for perpetrators: High court||Expressing concern over the “alarming” rise in snatching cases in Chandigarh, the Punjab and Haryana high court has said perpetrators deserve no leniency as the public will lose faith in the criminal justice system.Dismissing the bail plea of Ajay, a 22-year-old man accused of chain snatching in Burail on March 15, the bench of justice HS Madaan said on Thursday: “Normal people, especially women and children, are afraid of going out of their houses... in the evening and at late night hours. In the process of snatching valuables from the common people, the criminals cause harm to them physically, especially when some resistance is offered.”People had started suffering from a fear psychosis, the bench added.According to an FIR lodged at the Sector 34 police station, Ajay was accused of attacking and robbing two persons at 11 pm, when they were out for a walk. The stolen articles were later recovered by the police.The Chandigarh administration had informed the court that the accused had been involved in two similar crimes in April 2020 and one in September 2017. “That means he is a habitual offender. If granted the concession of bail, there is every likelihood of his trying to tamper with the prosecution evidence by giving threat or inducement to the prosecution witnesses or even to abscond to delay the trial,” the bench said.There was probability of his taking to the path of crime again, resulting in a rise in the crime graph in the area, the bench added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rise-in-snatching-cases-alarming-no-leniency-for-perpetrators-hc/story-mMWzj7XjBrBV5Bi4pjz6xJ.html
31-07-2020||Pune||New education policy is children-friendly, says Vasudha Kamat||Pune: The New Education Policy (NEP) approved by the Union cabinet on Wednesday is based on the draft prepared by an eight-member committee led by former Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) chief K Kasturirangan. Professor Vasudha Kamat, former vice-chancellor of SNDT University [Mumbai] and one of the members of the committee, speaks extensively about NEP and her experience while working in the committee that was formed in 2017. Reactions on the announcement of NEP and the ministry’s name change? Change in the name of ministry is important, because human resource development is a part of education. Education is beyond human resource development, as it covers many other aspects; hence we suggested a change in the name of the ministry from HRD to education. We interacted and discussed with many people related to higher and school education while drafting the policy. So, it is the country’s policy and the credit goes to all citizens who have made their contributions. I think the policy document is extensive and has given a lot of thought on quality education. We also suggested that the Right to Education (RTE) should be extended from age 3 to 18. A lot of changes have been suggested in NEP till 2030 and we look forward to its implementations. The new education policy is children-friendly. You open any page and will find that our central thrust is on children’s learning without being burdensome. Your experience on working in the committee I am fortunate to be a part of this committee. Working with Dr Kasturirangan is a learning experience as he is a great leader and inspiration. The way he led the committee comprising educators from different backgrounds was commendable as we were working on focus points and strengths. He motivated us to share our experiences.What are the important changes in NEP? There are several highlights of the policy, one of which is “New Pedagogical and curricular structure”. We discarded the current 10 + 2 structure in school and junior college. We suggested that education should start at age three and anganwadi workers are presently teaching these children. As per the draft, each student should be taught by Bachelor of Education (BEd) teachers. We have suggested a modified new pedagogical and curricular restructuring of 5+3+3+4 covering ages 3-18. To reduce Class 10 and 12 exam stress, under the new structure, students of Classes 9 to 12 can appear for any three subjects. I think it will be a great game changer in education field. In higher education, we have suggested to discard the “affiliated” system. We have 40,000 affiliated colleges, 11,000 standalone institutions and 900 universities in the country. We suggested that these colleges should be accredited by National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) and become autonomous. All universities should be multi-disciplinary and vocational and professional education should be given equal weightage.The Covid situation has shifted education more towards online learning and it is also reflected in NEP. What would you say about it? We have one of the chapters in the policy draft called “educational technology”. It means education comes first and technology to support it. So, learning is the central idea. Lot of tools are available today and people are opting for online learning, but learning should be the central idea. We have suggested how technology can be used for various purposes, including training, assessment and management. Technology infrastructure will be strengthened to help education reach the remote parts of the country. It will happen phase-wise and, by 2025, we hope that technology and facilities will reach all the students of our country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/new-education-policy-is-children-friendly-says-vasudha-kamat/story-VVGdtzc2uZGGHFgizSNbsK.html
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana gym owners heave sigh of relief after 4 months||Gym owners in the district can finally heave a sigh of relief after the Union ministry of home affairs on Thursday allowed the establishments to reopen from August 5 after four months. Many owners and staff members who were rendered unemployed during the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19 had to change their vocation to make ends meet. They are now waiting for the standard operating procedure (SOP) that is yet to be announced. Gym owners are hopeful that they will at least be able to meet fixed charges such as rent and electricity, which owners had to pay though the business’ were closed.A gym owner, Monu Bhardwaj, said, “There are over 800 gyms in Ludhiana and this decision has given them hope. The industry was struggling to make ends meet. Trainers were forced to do odd jobs in the interim and have welcomed the announced.”‘CUSTOMERS MIGHT CHOOSE TO STAY AWAY’A gym owner in Ramgarh village, Baljinder Singh, who had rejoined an auto parts company as a design engineer after six years, said, “This was a major relief for the industry, which was reeling under losses. Apart from running the gymnasium, I will continue to work as a design engineer as it is due to my job that I was able to earn a livelihood at this time of crises. Also, the future is uncertain as the number of cases are rising and customers may choose to stay away from gyms.”Gym Ekta Welfare Association director Ramesh Bangar said, “Gym owners have started cleaning and sanitising the premises but we are concerned over the SOP. The government should not announce an SOP that will reduce footfall in the gyms otherwise owners will not even be able to meet fixed charges. We would, however, follow all regulations, including social distancing, wearing masks and using hand sanitisers.”Aura Gym owner Navneet Singh said,”The future of the industry is bright due to increasing awareness among residents about their health. The government has agreed to our demand to open gyms and we will follow all guidelines.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/unlock-3-0-ludhiana-owners-heave-a-sigh-of-relief-concerned-over-sops/story-mCVtlWdlxupMBtPyu3hoeL.html
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||Teen drugged, raped over two days in Kharar, two men booked||Two men in their thirties were arrested by Kharar police for abducting a 16-year-old girl, confining her in a room after drugging her and repeatedly raping her over two days.Police are also probing how the victim, a minor, is married.The duo, Didar Singh and Gulbagh Singh, work as labourers. They abducted the teenager early on July 22 and kept her confined in a room in Kharar after drugging her with a chemical, police said.The girl then went home and narrated the incident to her parents and a police complaint was lodged, said Narinder Singh, in-charge, City Kharar police station.A case has been registered against the accused under Sections 376-D, 328, 342 of the Indian Penal Code and 4, 6 of the POCSO (Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences) Act at the City Kharar police station. Medical reports of the victim are awaited. Her statement under Section 164(5A) (a) of CrPC has been recorded before the area magistrate. “We will nab the accused soon,” said Narinder Singh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-booked-for-raping-abducting-minor-in-mohali/story-m2LHHQv5eoJUewkbfYaNyJ.html
