04-11-2020||Chandigarh||Cancellation of NOCs: Did not receive notice, pvt school in Ludhiana says||Nineteen days after Punjab school education minister Vijay Inder Singla had cancelled the no-objection certificates (NOCs) of three prominent private schools in Ludhiana for violating government instructions during the Covid-19 pandemic, the management committee of Guru Nanak Public School, Sarabha Nagar, claimed that they were neither served any notice nor received any communication from the state government or district education department.The schools are in the dock for slashing salaries of its employees or not paying them altogether, due to the pandemic, despite clear government directions against such acts.Surinder Singh Ryait, general secretary of GNPS, Sarabha Nagar, said they have sent many representations to the district education department to clear the air, but so far they have not received any notice or information regarding cancellation of the NOC.He also claimed that education officers have not replied to their e-mails.“We found out about cancellation of the NOC through newspapers on October 17. Parents are in a fix and are hesitant to admit their children to the school, as they have assumed that it will close down,” Ryait said.“This has dented the reputation of the school. We used to get more than 200 to 300 applications for admission in LKG and Nursery classes in October and November. But, due to the controversy, we have not received a single application. We have a strength of 3,000 students, but only 40% have paid fees till now,” he added.Ryait refuted the allegations of not paying salaries to teachers. He added that each and every staff of the school is receiving salaries in time. On being asked about collecting fees from students, Ryait said that there were no clear orders either from the government or from the court to not collect fees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cancellation-of-nocs-did-not-receive-notice-pvt-school-in-ludhiana-says/story-aLJtulj1eKVeVsUUYsCoxN.html
04-11-2020||Chandigarh||Auction of unclaimed vehicles fetches Ludhiana police ₹1.04 crore||The auction of 1,705 unclaimed vehicles on Tuesday fetched the Ludhiana police Rs 1.04 crore.A total of 154 bidders took part in the auction for unclaimed vehicles dumped at the police lines and various police stations.Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal said the police had decided on Rs 83,50,900 as reserve price for the 1,705 unclaimed vehicles. The bidders offered Rs 1,04,72,500 in all, which was Rs 21,21,600 more than the reserve price. Police had invited bids for around 2,200 unclaimed vehicles, including motorcycles, scooters, cars, jeeps, trucks and three-wheelers. The left out vehicles will be sold soon.The auction was held under the supervision of a committee of six officials, including joint commissioner of police (rural) Kanwardeep Kaur, deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Sukhpal Singh Brar, assistant commissioner of police (traffic) Gurdev Singh, regional transport secretary Sandeep Singh Ghara, Punjab Roadways manager Manpreet Singh Sahota and District Industries Centre superintendent Tara Singh.The process was initiated in October 2019 to free up space at the police stations. Expected to be completed by May 2020, it was delayed due to the Covid-19 lockdown. With restrictions being lifted, police started returning recovered articles to residents.On October 30, as many as 239 vehicles, 213 mobile phones and Rs 6.74 lakh in cash was returned to residents at Government College for Girls. According to police, they have so far returned property worth Rs 4 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/auction-of-unclaimed-vehicles-fetches-ludhiana-police-1-04-crore/story-QUqSKbdH2V1cjtJHhYYlWO.html
04-11-2020||Noida||Choked sewer, overflow irks residents in Greater Noida||GREATER NOIDA: With a choked sewer pipeline, sewage has been overflowing in at least six residential sectors of Greater Noida, giving the residents trouble. Locals said they had to file multiple complaints with the Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority (GNIDA) for it to pay heed.According to residents, choked sewer lines and overflowing sewage into houses was a common problem in sectors Beta 1, Delta 1, Zu 1, Ecotech 2 and Knowledge Park-III of the city.“The authority does not clean the sewers regularly, as a result of which choked sewage overflows into the residential areas. We had to file multiple complaints, after which the authority paid attention to the issue. We hope that this will not recur,” said Harendra Bhati, a resident of Sector Beta 1 and founder member of Active Citizen Team, a social group.The authority, meanwhile, said that it has started the cleaning of sewers with the help of sucker machines and stopped manual cleaning which involves manual labour. Officials said they have assured the residents that the authority will resolve issues of choked sewers in sectors Gamma 1, 2, Alpha 1, 2, Omicron 1, 2, 3, Xu 1, 2, 3 and sigma by March 2021. “We have been cleaning the city’s sewer network with the help of machines so that sewage overflow issues are addressed properly. Now, the regular cleaning of the sewers with robot machines, that work on artificial intelligence, will make sure that sewer lines are not choked in any residential area of the city,” said Deep Chandra, additional chief executive officer of the Greater Noida authority. The authority said that it has set up an integrated control room with helpline numbers – 8595810523 and 8595814470 – where residents can call and get their issues resolved related with choked sewer lines.“In Greater Noida’s residential areas, choked manholes, overflow of sewer lines and sludge content in the sewer network have been very common problems in the city. To address these issues professionally, we have set up the integrated control room, where residents can call and get their issues redressed,” said Chandra. Officials said the authority has laid out a system that if a complaint is not addressed at any level then it will be escalated to a senior official, who can take appreciate decisions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/choked-sewer-overflow-irks-residents-in-greater-noida/story-GgK3nlYgCwrHaALy0qn6yI.html
04-11-2020||Noida||With 339 cases, GB Nagar registers highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases||Alarmed with reports of 339 Covid-19 positive cases on Wednesday, the Gautam Budh Nagar district administration called upon an urgent meeting in the evening to decide on the measures to check the further spread of the infection in the district. However, the health department attributed the sudden spike to a delay in uploading data on the central server.GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said that the health officials have been asked to increase surveillance at public places and strengthen contact tracing of positive patients. “Rising number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi also has a direct impact on the neighbouring districts of Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. In April too, 42% of the cases in GB Nagar had come from contacts in Delhi. But, now that almost all restrictions have been eased and commercial activities have started, we have any no other option other than proper surveillance and following all precautionary measures,” he said.With 339 cases, the total number of patients suffering from Covid-19 has now reached 18,679 in Gautam Budh Nagar. There are 1,443 active Covid-19 cases in the district with no new deaths being recorded in the last 24 hours. The previous biggest single-day spike in the district was 251, which was reported on September 10. Attributing the sudden spike in Covid-19 cases to the district’s floating population and the movement of over one lakh across the Delhi-Noida border daily, the DM said that only mass awareness about social distancing and sanitisation can check the spread of the virus. “In the meeting with the health officials today, I’ve asked them to increase daily testing from 4.000 to 7,000 and enhance contact tracing. They have also been asked to keep strict surveillance in the crowded areas. I’ll myself keep a tab on daily testing and contact tracing,” he said. Suhas further said that in the present situation, early and timely tracking and providing adequate treatment are the main goals before the administration. “Despite having adequate beds for Covid-19 patients, all private and government hospitals have been asked to increase the number of beds in their intensive care units (ICU) and high dependency units (HDU),” he said. The DM also said that further spread of viral infection cannot be ruled out. “Our focus is on reducing the number of deaths and curing the maximum number of infected patients possible. For that, we have adopted the ‘tracking, testing and treating’ methodology in which we are ensuring the maximum number of contact tracing, testing nearly 4,000 people every day, and treating infected patients as per symptoms. While the recovery rate in GB Nagar is still over 90%, the case fatality rate is only 0.36%, which is much better than the state’s overall rate of 1.45%,” Suhas LY said. Dr Deepak Ohri, chief medical officer (CMO) of the district, however, said that sudden surge in positive cases on Wednesday, was mainly due to bulk uploading of as many as 169 cases by the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) after October 28. “Actually, it is not a sudden surge as the spike could have been of just 30 cases, if case details were uploaded on a daily basis. Nevertheless, to avert any major surge, we need to further increase the contact-tracing and testing,” he said. When contacted, the GIMS director Dr Rakesh Gupta, also admitted that there was a delay in uploading cases. “While some of our laboratory staff members tested positive, the weekend offs also caused a delay in uploading the daily positive cases on the portal. We’ll now make all efforts to put the figures on state Covid-19 portal on time,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/with-339-cases-gb-nagar-registers-highest-single-day-spike-in-covid-19-cases/story-eGdCrdm14Fti8sEqFAPo4J.html
04-11-2020||City||Mentally disabled boy fights off men trying to sodomise him in Ludhiana||The Salem Tabri police have booked some unidentified men for assaulting a 16-year-old mentally disabled boy and trying to sodomise him at a vacant plot near Kasabad village. In his complaint to the police, the boy’s father, a resident of Bhattian Bet, said his teenaged son visited a nearby house for a “jagran” on October 30. There, some men took him to a vacant plot near Kasabad village and stripped him. They tried to sodomise his son, but when he resisted, they beat him up and fled the spot.The boy revealed the matter to his family on Tuesday, following which they approached the police.ASI Prabhjit Singh, who is investigating the case, said a case under Sections 323, 324, 342, 506 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code had been registered against the unidentified men. The police are waiting for the boy’s medical report to confirm sexual assault. More sections may be added in the FIR following the medical report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mentally-disabled-boy-fights-off-men-trying-to-sodomise-him-in-ludhiana/story-yLfjKdp9V8od0TLAyjCBiJ.html
04-11-2020||Chandigarh||41 vendors allowed to sell crackers in Ludhiana||Complying with the directions of Punjab and Haryana high court to observe a clean and green Diwali by allowing limited sale of crackers, the district administration held a draw on Wednesday to issue 41 temporary licences to sell firecrackers in the district against 389 applications received from vendors.Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said 41 vendors have been allowed to sell crackers at eight earmarked sites in the district. The DC said that of the 75 applications received for Dana Mandi in Salem Tabri, 13 licenses have been allocated, while for the 93 applications received for GLADA Ground in Sector 39, nine have been given licences.He said that, similarly, 53 applicants had applied to set up firecracker vends at Model Town, of which five were issued licences, while 69 applications were received for GLADA Ground in Dugri of which four licences were issued . He said that three persons had applied for Lodhi Club and all have been issued licenses.In Hambran and Khanna, of the 31 and 43 applications respectively, three each got permission to sell firecrackers, while in Jagraon only one licence was allocated against 22 applicants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/41-vendors-allowed-to-sell-crackers-in-ludhiana/story-uzMHmHS5PU51qbUHCbD10I.html
04-11-2020||Noida||Wildlife Institute of India to submit plan to protect fauna around Jewar airport||The Wildlife Institute of India has decided to draw up and submit a conservation plan that will aim at protecting wildlife species and their natural habitat that will be affected due to the upcoming Noida International Greenfield Airport at Jewar. The conservation plan will have proposals on individual species — mainly on Sarus crane, blackbucks and Nilgai, due to their abundance — that exist in and around the proposed 5,000 acres site for the airport. These species rely on a number of wetlands around the proposed site for food and water for their survival and the plan will aim at mitigating the impact, scientists said. “There is a small population of blackbucks, Nilgai and Sarus cranes in the area. The conservation plan that we will be submitting in the next ten days has been made to protect the wildlife species that will be affected due to the airport project. The plan will minimise the impact on the species and will be shared with all the concerned departments,” said Bilal Habib, scientist of WII who is also the head of the conservation plan team. He points out that a number of species live on agriculture fields and not in the protected area or the notified forest land. The report will also consider aspects like flight safety, given the risk of birds coming inside the operational area of the airport and damaging aircrafts. “We have worked on all aspects keeping individual species in mind. The idea is not just to reduce the impact on the wildlife, but also on human lives. The plan thus will include all options be it relocation or rehabilitation or conservation of a particular species within that area,’ said Habib. The Noida International Greenfield airport project is spread across 5,000 hectares that falls in 39 villages near Jewar along Yamuna Expressway— that connects Greater Noida with Agra. Earlier the project’s nodal agency, Noida International Airport Limited (NIAL), has signed a memorandum of understating with WII on August 30, 2019, for the preparation of a conservation plan that is crucial for obtaining environment clearance. The clearance for the project has already been granted, but the WII has been tasked to chalk out a mitigation plan to reduce impact on wildlife and the ecology , especially in a 10-km radius or the area of influence of the project site. An inception report by WII last year observed several herds of blackbucks, Nilgai and flocks of Sarus crane around the proposed site. During the inception report, several herds of blackbucks —with the largest having 29 members — along with other mammals, including jackal and jungle cats, several flocks of Sarus cranes, and over 60 other bird species including endangered Egyptian vulture and Indian peafowls were observed. The blackbuck, an antelope species, is listed under Schedule-1 of Wildlife Protection Act-1972, while the Nilgai, also an antelope, is protected under schedule-3 of WPA-1972. The sarus crane (schedule-4 of WPA) is categorised as a vulnerable species, according to the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) classification. It is the state bird of UP and parts of western UP, especially areas around Etawah and Mainpuri, are among the bird’s largest habitat in the world. Surajpur and Dhanauri are two rich wetlands close to Jewar and both are unprotected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/wildlife-institute-of-india-to-submit-plan-to-protect-fauna-around-jewar-airport/story-6uGIXjDiJuTAgEaqGLwvBM.html
04-11-2020||Noida||Discom files FIR against 500 meter readers, collects over ₹60 crore from defaulters||The Pashchimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (PVVNL) — the power distribution company that supplies electricity across 14 districts of western Uttar Pradesh — has filed FIRs against nearly 500 erring meter readers for producing faulty meter readings and collected ₹60.44 crore from the defaulters since October 13, when the discom started its disconnection drive. Arvind Mallappa Bangari, managing director(MD), PVVNL, said that during the disconnection drive, the discom has pulled the plugs of 71,611 defaulters in the districts of Meerut, Baghpat, Ghaziabad, Gautam Budh Nagar, Bulandshahr, Hapur, Muzaffarnagar, Saharanpur, Shamli, Bijnour, Moradabad, Sambhal, JP Nagar and Rampur. “Our raiding teams have also collected ₹60.44 crore from the power consumers across these 14 districts for failing to clear their outstanding dues,” he said. Bangari further said that as many as 40,848 meter exception cases have also been attended to during this drive, in which the meters were found to be out of order. “Also, FIRs against over 500 meter readers have been lodged in different districts. Alarmed at the poor revenue collection in some areas of these districts, we started checking the actual meter readings. We found that the meter readers often connive with the owners of the meters and downplay the number of units consumed by them. The actual units consumed continue to get recorded as store-reading and the consumers have no other option than to pay for them,” he said. The PVVNL MD also said that while Noida division has 2,120 recorded cases of faulty meters, Ghaziabad division had 4,701 erring meters. “We have disconnected 11,746 electricity connections in Ghaziabad, whereas 4,095 lines were disconnected in Noida. The total revenue collected from Noida zone from the defaulters is over ₹4.05 crore, while over ₹18.23 crore was collected from the Ghaziabad — the highest in the entire Meerut division,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/discom-files-fir-against-500-meter-readers-collects-over-60-crore-from-defaulters/story-SM97bSWSHDvngsehJKqELJ.html
04-11-2020||Noida||Case registered against unknown person for stubble burning in Jewar||The police have registered a case against an unknown person for stubble burning in Jewar Bangar village on Wednesday. The case was registered based on the complaint by a local revenue officer (lekhpal), who found that someone had put a lot of crop residue on fire in Jewar Bangar village. The fire had created a lot of smoke in the neighbourhood on Tuesday, said police officials.Vipin Kumar, local revenue officer who made the complaint, said that he received information from locals about stubble burning in a field in Jewar Bangar village. “I reached the spot and found that someone had put some crop residue on fire in a 0.77-hectare land. This land earlier belonged to a farmer named Yogendra. The government had later acquired the land and handed it over to Yamuna Authority for the development of Jewar Airport. The farmer had harvested the paddy crop and had left the stubble at the spot. On Tuesday, someone put it on fire,” he said. This created a lot of smoke in the area, prompting the locals to complain to the lekhpal, who reached the spot for investigation. Kumar said that he questioned the farmer, Yogendra, who denied his involvement in the stubble burning. “The farmer said someone else may have been involved in burning the stubble. I then filed a complaint in Jewar police station against unknown person,” said Kumar. Umesh Bahadur, station house officer(SHO), Jewar police station, said that a case has been registered against unknown person under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code. “We have launched an investigation into the matter. We have so far registered six cases of stubble burning in one month. We are also sensitising people about the harmful effects of stubble burning, which leads to pollution,” he said.Stubble fires are a leading cause of air pollution in Delhi-NCR. On Wednesday, while Noida recorded an air quality index(AQI) reading of 345 and Greater Noida fared worse with an AQI reading of 368 — both in the ‘very poor’ category’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/case-registered-against-unknown-person-for-stubble-burning-in-jewar/story-sZptReHhd8goIFgpnHPGFM.html
04-11-2020||City||Worker dies in pillar collapse, Ludhiana factory owner booked||A knitwear factory owner was booked after his 20-year-old employee died in a pillar collapse incident during work on Tuesday. The accused has been identified as Ashwani Gupta of Jhammat village. He runs a factory, Ashwani Knitwear, in Rayiyan village.The victim, Amit Kumar, was working at the water treatment plant on the factory premises on Tuesday. Meanwhile, the plant, having a capacity of 50,000 litres, collapsed, causing a pillar to fall on him and killing him on the spot. The victim’s cousin Subodh Singh, of Rayiyan village, alleged that the factory owner had not got the plant repaired for a long time, leading to the structure becoming feeble. Had he got it fixed in time, his cousin would not have died so tragically, he complained.ASI Jasvir Singh, who is investigating the case, said the factory owner had been booked under Section 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code. He will be arrested soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/worker-dies-in-pillar-collapse-ludhiana-factory-owner-booked/story-md7ZX4JQuaQ6R3oyWrtjwN.html
04-11-2020||Noida||Greater Noida West: 50-year-old businessman, wife found murdered in apartment; cops rule out robbery||Greater Noida: A 55-year-old businessman and his 50-year-old wife were found murdered at their apartment on the ninth floor of Cherry County in Greater Noida West Wednesday morning. The victim, Vinay Kumar Gupta owned a supermarket store – Price Smart – in the same complex while his wife, Neha Gupta, was a homemaker. According to the police, the couple had injury marks on their heads and it appeared they were attacked with a blunt object. A bloodstained brass lamp was found at the spot which may have been used in the attack, said the police.Love Kumar, additional commissioner of police, law and order, Gautam Budh Nagar, said the couple lived in Tower B 2. “The police received information that the couple were found murdered in the morning. A police team from Bisrakh, along with a forensic team and dog squad, reached the spot for investigation. We found the main door was open; there was no forced entry in the flat,” he said. The couple have two sons – Love Gupta, who lives in the United States, and Kush Gupta, who lives in Noida’s Sector 122. The family is from Saharanpur, and lived for some years in Ghaziabad, before shifting to Sector 122. Vinay ran the store in Cherry County and commuted from his workplace to residence in Sector 122 every day.However, he had shifted to Cherry County two months ago, while his younger son and his elderly parents continue to live in Sector 122. Police said that in the morning, Kush dialled his father but the call went unanswered. Later, he went to Cherry County and found his parents murdered.“Primary investigation shows there was no damage to the safe. The valuables are also not missing. The investigation shows this is not a case of loot. Kush revealed that his father had borrowed some loan for business. Vinay also dealt in jewellery business. The police are investigating the matter from all angles,” he said. Locals said that Vinay had contested the Nagar Nigam elections from Ghaziabad in the past. Locals also claimed that an electoral poster has surfaced on social media and WhatsApp groups. However. the police said that they are yet to verify any election angle. BN Rai, the security in-charge of the society, said security personnel came to know about the incident at 10am on Wednesday. “The guards were at the entry gate but they did not notice anything unusual. The couple’s son had come to the society and alerted the people and security personnel. We do know how the incident took place,” he said. There 1,700 apartments across 13 towers in the highrise society, of which 1,500 flats are occupied. Sanjeev Goel, Vinay’s cousin, said that a double murder in a high-rise society exposes residents’ safety and security. “Vinay was a simple man. He used to work at the supermarket and return home. We hope the police arrest the suspects and solve the case soon,” he said. Based on Kush’s application, the Bisrakh police have registered a case against unknown persons under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC. A spokesperson of ABA Corp, the developer of Cherry County, said that this was an unfortunate incident. “We have provided CCTV camera footage to the police and are cooperating in the investigation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/greater-noida-west-50-year-old-businessman-wife-found-murdered-in-apartment-cops-rule-out-robbery/story-OqLkKTMLtGdqYZtEd5vNuO.html
04-11-2020||Noida||Gang stealing vehicle accessories busted near Noida Sector 126; three held||Three members of an interstate gang involved in the theft of vehicle accessories were nabbed by the Noida Police on late Tuesday night from near Sector 126. The police recovered 15 stolen batteries from their possession, along with a stolen Honda civic car,a tool kit and two countrymade pistols. According to police officials, the gang mostly targeted vehicles parked on the roadside.“Their focus was usually on batteries of vehicles, specially those of trucks parked near roadside eateries. They were active in several states, including various districts of Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Punjab, Rajasthan, etc.,” said Yogesh Malik, station house officer (SHO), Expressway police station.The suspects were identified as Raju, Mohit and Rohit, all of whom were living in Ghaziabad. The police officials said that the gang has been active since 2016.“We are working on tracing their criminal history but we have already found a few cases of theft registered against the suspects. They have been to jail on several occasions previously. It is a large gang with several more members being involved. Five of their accomplices were nabbed by the Unnao Police a few days back. We are on the lookout for other members of the gang,” said the SHO.He said that the suspects would sell these stolen accessories in bulk to scrap dealers that fetched them huge amounts, especially for vehicle batteries, which are always in demand. Police officials said that the suspects were nabbed following a tip-off from an informant. They were produced before a magistrate on Wednesday and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gang-stealing-vehicle-accessories-busted-near-noida-sector-126-three-held/story-ylkTwXNdFVblHh8jum9U0I.html
04-11-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad: After brief gap of three days, active Covid cases cross 1,000 mark yet again||Ghaziabad: After a brief period of three days, during which the number of active coronavirus (Covid-19) cases in Ghaziabad fell below 1,000, the number of active cases has again crossed the 1,000 mark. Ghaziabad is now among the four districts in Uttar Pradesh to have 1,000 or above active cases. Officials acknowledged that they have witnessed the trend and have directed for gearing up for any spike which may come around the festivals.The last time the Ghaziabad district had less than 1,000 active cases was on August 13, when the number stood at 984. Thereafter, there was a rise in cases and on October 29 the number of active cases came down to below the 1,000 mark after a gap of nearly 77 days. However, the trend could continue only till October 31, and active coronavirus cases have gone up since November 1 when they stood at 1,041 and have remained above the 1,000 mark ever since. According to the state control room records of November 4, active cases were at 1,146 in the district. Apart from Ghaziabad, the three other districts in UP – Meerut, Gautam Budh Nagar and Lucknow – have active cases more than 1,000, at 1498, 1443 and 3906, respectively, on November 4 as per the state control room figures. “We are witnessing the trend of increase in cases and daily cases in Delhi are also rising. Since we have a major population chunk which travels to and from Delhi, there is a high probability that our cases are also likely to increase. Many of our localities like Vaishali, Kaushambi, Surya Nagar and Loni, etc. are very close to Delhi borders,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. “We have chalked out a ‘November action plan’ under which we have directed for resumption of L1 category hospitals, once there is a spike in the number of cases. Apart from these, it is also directed that ventilators and other equipment should be kept in ready condition. Apart from this, we already have about 900 beds in private hospitals. So, we have geared up but it is a must that people wear masks and adhere to social distancing during the festival season,” he added. An increase in active cases means that there is a spike in fresh cases, outnumbering the number of patients discharged over a period of time. The Ghaziabad district had reached an all-time high figure of 2,126 active Covid-19 cases on September 14.“There is much need for precautions to be taken by residents in times of festivals, as lapses could lead to spread of Covid-19 when too many people mingle with each other in markets. So, it is vital that they wear masks and adhere to social distancing norms,” said Dr VB Jindal, former president of Indian Medical Association – Ghaziabad. Although the case tally has shown an increase, Ghaziabad has a better discharge rate – of about 93.56% – with 1,7890 patients discharged, out of a total 19,120 cases reported since March to November 4. The total also includes 84 deaths which have so far taken place in the district due to the coronavirus disease. On November 4, the total cases in the district crossed the mark of 19,000. Out of these, the last 1,000 cases were reported in a span of nine days, with the 18,000 mark having been crossed on October 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-after-brief-gap-of-three-days-active-covid-cases-cross-1-000-mark-yet-again/story-zZhPc5sRw7vA5v4IJKGfAP.html
04-11-2020||Noida||Visibility over Noida, Ghaziabad and Greater Noida low; haze to prevail for a few days, says met dept||Ghaziabad: Visibility in the three cities of Noida, Ghaziabad and Greater Noida on Wednesday was low due to cover of trapped pollutants, as a result of low wind speed in the region. Officials of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that unfavourable meteorological conditions have resulted in the scenario, which is likely to continue for two-three days.The haze was witnessed on Wednesday morning and in many areas, hardly any sunlight came through. Officials of the IMD said that the visibility reduced to about 800 metres due to presence of pollutants, which stayed between the ground level and up to one kilometre from the ground.“The cover of pollutants had come down below one kilometre, and also stayed at the ground level. The wind speed also remained low with an average of about eight-10 kilometres per hour (kmph). Further, there was also a decline in temperature. So, all these factors contributed to lesser dispersal of pollutants, which resulted in hazy conditions due to presence of pollutants,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, New Delhi. “The conditions are likely to remain prevalent for next two-three days. There may be marginal improvement in wind speed but it will have no major effect on dispersal of pollutants. The temperature during the day time is likely to remain about 28-29 degrees Celsius while the temperature during the night time will hover around 10-11 degrees Celsius,” he added. The residents said that weather conditions remained hazy throughout. They added that they had difficulty in breathing in the open air.“There was hardly any sunshine on Wednesday and as I breathed, I could feel the quality of air was bad, when I went out to the market. The visibility was poor and hazy conditions prevailed throughout the day, continuing till evening. The air quality might deteriorate further and the authorities should increase the frequency of water sprinkling activities on roads,” said Sanjeev Sethi, a resident of Sector 107, Noida, adding that he had to keep the windows of his home shut throughout the day.The Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) air quality index (AQI) for Ghaziabad, Greater Noida and Noida stood at 389, 368 and 345, respectively, all under the “very poor” category, on Wednesday. The AQI of 389 for Ghaziabad is among the highest this season since October 1. The same AQI was recorded on October 29 as well.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.Although Ghaziabad’s AQI stood under the “very poor” category on Wednesday, the AQI levels at Loni, Sanjay Nagar and monitoring stations spiked to “severe” categories, with AQI values of 436 and 415, respectively, at 4pm on Wednesday, as per the CPCB’s bulletin. Meanwhile, Greater Noida’s Knowledge Park 5 monitoring station also reached the “severe category”, with an AQI reading of 405. Instances of fire, however, continued unabated.An HT team spotted instances of stubble burning at Kallu Garhi near Dasna, while another major fire took place at a garbage dump in Raj Nagar Extension Wednesday evening. Chief fire officer Sunil Kumar Singh said that a fire tender was rushed to Raj Nagar Extension to douse the blaze. “We immediately informed the authorities and one fire tender arrived. The fire tender had to refill water several times from a nearby highrise in order to douse the flames. It took over one hour to control and completely douse the fire. The blaze resulted in thick smoke in the air which engulfed the nearby highrises. There was low visibility and difficulty in breathing due to pollution prevailing throughout the day; it was probably the worst day of this season in the city,” said Vikrant Sharma, a resident of Raj Nagar Extension. Utsav Sharma, the regional officer of the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) in Ghaziabad, said that action will be initiated in both the incidents. “We will ask the agricultural department to initiate action in the instance of stubble burning at Kallu Garhi, and recommend a penalty of Rs 25 lakh against the plot owner at Raj Nagar Extension. The pollution conditions prevailed due to low wind speed and drop in temperature,” he said. Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said that he will direct agencies to intensify pollution abatement measures.“In case the conditions continue this way, we will also consider a stoppage of infrastructure-related works in certain areas in coming days,” he added. The forecast by System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), a private weather forecasting agency, said that overall Delhi’s AQI is likely to stay in the lower end of “very poor” category and deterioration is forecasted for November 5 and 6 towards the higher end of “very poor” category. It said that Safar synergised stubble fire counts over Punjab, Haryana, UP, Uttarakhand, and neighbouring areas are marginally decreased, but still significant and stood at 1,949 yesterday (Tuesday), and stubble-burning share in PM2.5 in Delhi’s air was estimated at 5% for Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/visibility-over-noida-ghaziabad-and-greater-noida-low-haze-to-prevail-for-a-few-days-says-met-dept/story-IVYxXrgmPEZn1BsMhbFxfL.html
04-11-2020||City||Ludhiana man robbed of ₹13,000 , mobile phone at gunpoint||Robbers targeted another city resident, this time snatching Rs 13,000 and a mobile phone from a 48-year-old grocer in Daresi Area after opening fire in the air.Though the incident occurred on October 26, the victim, Parveen Kumar, did not lodge a complaint till Tuesday out of fear.Kumar, a resident of Nanak Nagar, who owns a grocery store in Karabara area, told the police that on October 26 he was returning home on his motorcycle after wrapping up work. Around 10pm when he was passing by Atam Hosiery in Daresi, three men on a motorcycle intercepted him. Brandishing a gun, they demanded his cash and money.When he resisted, the accused opened fire in the air to threaten him and snatched his Rs 13,000 in cash and mobile phone before fleeing.Left shaken by the attack, he returned home and narrated the incident to his family, but could not muster the courage to approach the police.ASI Shavinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said the robbery was captured in a CCTV camera installed near the spot. Kumar managed to get the CCTV footage and one of his neighbours identified one accused as Lovedeep Singh, who lived in their locality earlier. After identifying him, the victim lodged a complaint with the police on Tuesday. Police have booked Lovedeep Singh of Bhamiya, Deepak Kumar and Gagandeep of Shimlapuri under Sections 392 (robbery), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act. A manhunt has been launched to nab the accused.ROBBERS ON THE LOOSEOctober 29: A Machhiwara resident lost his motorcycle and mobile phone to robbers on the Kohara-Machhiwara roadOctober 28: An elderly man was robbed of his scooter, cash and mobile phone while he was visiting his plot in Mani Shah Colony near Alamgir villageOctober 16: Two motorcycle-borne men robbed a 50-year-old woman of her gold chain and opened fire at her when she resisted in New Moti NagarOctober 14: A 32-year-old man was robbed of his motorcycle near Arya College for Boys.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-man-robbed-of-13-000-mobile-phone-at-gunpoint/story-av164KFQFjq4K2gN9PX7cL.html
04-11-2020||Chandigarh||Protest by Akalis a political gimmick: Congress leaders||The protest by Shiromani Akali Dal leaders outside the residence of Punjab cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Wednesday has invited sharp criticism from the local Congress leadership who called it a frivolous attempt to save lost ground. Lashing out at the Akalis, MLAs Surinder Dawar, Sanjay Talwar and Kuldeep Singh Vaid said that they have no locus standi to question leaders like Ashu. “People have seen their true colours, which is why they are issuing frivolous statements to save their long lost political ground,” quipped the MLAs. Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu and Ludhiana Improvement Trust chairman Raman Balasubramaniam said the Akalis had first signed in approval of the three farm ordinances passed by the Union government. “It is a known and documented fact that former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal as well as former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal had given official statements in media appreciating the farm ordinances. But, when people started objecting, they were forced to backtrack and shed crocodile tears in support of the farmers. This clearly shows the opportunistic nature of Akalis and Punjabis will never forget their misdeeds against farmers,” they said. Ashwani Sharma and Karanijt Singh Soni Galib, urban and rural presidents of District Congress Committee, Ludhiana, said that before questioning Ashu’s credibility, the Akalis should first come clean on the alleged misappropriation of public funds to the tune of Rs 31,000 crore during the 10 years of their rule. “The Akalis have no moral right to question an honest leader like Bharat Bhushan Ashu. If they are so concerned about Punjab, they should first question their own leadership as to why Rs 31,000 crore were misappropriated during their tenure,” they said. Mamta Ashu, MC councillor and wife of Bharat Bhushan Ashu, said that the Akali protest near their house was a political gimmick because unsuccessful and failed leaders like Mahesh Inder Singh Grewal now want to contest Assembly elections to show their prominence. “Everyone knows about the honesty and credibility of Bharat Bhushan Ashu, who has not lost a single election since 1997. This clearly shows that he has been accepted year after year by the people of Ludhiana. From the actions of the Narendra Modi led Union government, one can easily make out that they are hell bent to destroy the agriculture, industry as well as entire economy of Punjab”, the councillor said. She added that the Punjabi industry, which is world famous for its hosiery, textile, cycle parks and automotive components, will not be able to sell their products because the central government is operating in an autocratic manner and Narendra Modi like a dictator. She further said that Punjabis have always given their sweat and blood for safeguarding the rights of fellow citizens and would not bow down in front of the dictatorial government. “People should question Bikram Singh Majithia as to why he did not go to Delhi to organise a protest against Union government. Maybe he is scared of the Enforcement Directorate,” she quipped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/protest-by-akalis-a-political-gimmick-congress/story-WHAXDEVkNsyiWAoSQjrwIM.html
04-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana assembly session: Abhay Chautala to move private member’s Bills seeking amendment in farm laws||Former leader of opposition in Haryana assembly and INLD leader Abhay Singh Chautala has submitted three private member’s Bills to speaker Gian Chand Gupta, seeking guarantee that farmers’ produce will not be sold or bought below the minimum support price (MSP). The Bills will be tabled during the two-day monsoon assembly session starting Thursday and the issue is expected to dominate the proceedings. Chautala, an INLD MLA from Ellenabad, said he has submitted the Bills seeking amendments in the recently enacted agriculture trade laws by the central government. The assembly secretariat has referred the Bills to agriculture and food and supplies department to explain the government’s viewpoint. The three private member’s Bills—The farmers (empowerment and protection) agreement on price assurance and farm services (special provisions and Haryana amendment) Bill, 2020, the farmers’ produce trade and commerce (promotion and facilitation) (special provisions and Haryana amendment) Bill, 2020 and the essential commodities (special provisions and Haryana amendment) Bill, 2020—are on the lines of Bills passed by the Punjab assembly recently. As per the provisions of the farmers (empowerment and protection) agreement on price assurance and farm services (special provisions and Haryana amendment) Bill, no sale or purchase of wheat, paddy, bajra, maize, sunflower seed, mustard, pulses and cotton will be valid unless the price paid for such agricultural produce under a farming agreement is equal to, or greater than, the MSP announced by the Centre. The Bill also provides for a three-year imprisonment and fine for a person, company or corporate house which compels farmers to enter into a contract or sell his agricultural produce at a price below the MSP. Chautala said he will push for the enactment of the laws proposed by him as they were in the interest of farmers. “Since the Congress which is the principal opposition group in the assembly has nothing to offer on this issue, I am fulfilling the role of the opposition in the House. The Congress leaders are busy in their internal bickering,” he said. The INLD leader said central laws would nullify the MSP mechanism guaranteed through the existing structure of agriculture produce market committees that has stood the test of time. “The government has introduced a trading mechanism through these Central acts that is vulnerable to encroachment and manipulation by vested corporate interests leaving the farmer open to vagaries of market forces for getting an optimum price for agriculture produce, fruits and vegetables,” he said. Chautala said a large number of farmers in Haryana own less than five acres and a majority of them own less than two acres. “They have limited or no access to multiple markets with an inherent handicap of bargaining power to negotiate fair price contracts. They need proper protection by the state government to ensure a level playing field, prevent exploitation and an optimum guarantee of fair market price for the agriculture produce. This is the primary and principal responsibility of the state government which has been overlooked by the central laws,” he added. Meanwhile, Congress MLA from Dabwali Amit Sihag has signed a memorandum to protest the enactment of three agricultural marketing laws by the Centre. The memorandum is addressed to President Ram Nath Kovind.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-assembly-session-abhay-chautala-to-move-private-member-s-bills-seeking-amendment-in-farm-laws/story-p8v67Lwxz4OdtxXeg344FJ.html
04-11-2020||Chandigarh||Typing test for Chandigarh admn’s clerk, steno-typist posts to be held soon||The typing test for UT administration’s around 400 clerk and steno-typists posts will finally be held more than eight months after the result of the written examination was declared. The UT administration on Wednesday gave the go-ahead to Punjab University to hold the test at the earliest. The UT personnel department wrote to the University Institute of Applied Management Sciences, PU, to hold the typing test/examination for recruitment of clerks and stenos following due Covid protocols. The test is being conducted to fill over 400 posts of clerks and steno-typists in the UT administration for group ‘C’ posts under the Recruitment Rules, 2015, on a regular basis. The administration had entrusted PU to conduct the typing test last year. The written examination was held last year on December 22 and, the result for the same was announced in February this year. The typing test was to be conducted in March but, the process was halted due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The candidates, who had cleared the written exam, have been demanding conduct of the typing test since the lockdown restrictions were removed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/typing-test-for-chandigarh-admin-s-clerk-steno-typist-posts-to-be-held-soon/story-kktq6pPdXFUwzSBozd8zUK.html
04-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana assembly session: Dushyant to table private sector job quota Bill in House||A Bill providing 75% reservation in private sector jobs in Haryana will be tabled in the two-day assembly session starting on Thursday. JJP leader and deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, who piloted the private quota move, is expected to move the Bill in the House in his capacity as labour and employment minister. The cabinet had in October withdrawn an ordinance approved by it earlier for providing 75% private sector quota. The ordinance though was not promulgated by the governor, who had reserved it for consideration of the President. The Bill replacing the ordinance is expected to be a replica and will also require the assent of the President, officials said. Article 201 of the Constitution says that the President can either declare that he assents to the proposed law or that he withholds assent. The President can also direct the governor to return it to the House for reconsideration. The move to introduce reservation for local youth in private-sector jobs is on the lines of a law enacted by YS Jaganmohan Reddy government in Andhra Pradesh which has been challenged on the question of constitutional validity in the high court. The proposed law The Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Bill, 2020, the proposed law, aims to provide 75 % employment to local candidates for jobs having salary of less than Rs 50,000 per month in private companies, societies, trusts, limited liability partnership firms, partnership firms etc situated in Haryana. However, employers will also have the option to recruit local candidates from one district to the extent of only 10%. The proposed law also contains an exemption clause if suitable local candidates are not available for a particular category of industry. Presidential assent required due to overriding clause The ordinance was reserved for the President’s consideration as its Section 23 gave it an overriding effect over other laws and has the potential to be repugnant to an Act of the Parliament. The clause providing for preference in jobs to the local candidates domiciled in Haryana also was seemingly in contravention of Article 14 of the Constitution pertaining to equality before the law and Article 19 (1)(g), which provides for protection of certain rights to practice any profession, or to carry on any occupation, trade or business. The Constitution does not provide a time limit for the President to give assent to a Bill or withhold it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-assembly-session-dushyant-to-table-private-sector-job-quota-bill-in-house/story-VgQz9FBbaPLWdBVcm0m5XK.html
04-11-2020||City||Haryana farmers intensify protest against agriculture laws, call for statewide chakka jam on November 5||Farmer leaders in Haryana have decided to intensify their agitation against the three agriculture laws by blocking national and state highways on Thursday. Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU Charuni) president Gurnam Singh Charuni said several farmer unions have extended their support to the statewide chakka jam call from 12pm to 4pm. He said they have decided to block NH 44 (Chandigarh-Delhi) highway near Raipur Roran village of Nilokheri in Karnal district. In a video message, Charuni urged farmers to support the protest by blocking the national and state highways in their respective districts. Harpal Singh, BKU state secretary, said they have decided to block some selected highways in Karnal, Kaithal, Rohtak, Sonepat and Hisar districts. As per reports, the farmer leaders have been contacting commission agents and other people associated with the mandi system, traders and labourers to join the protest. He said the farmers will not block link roads. Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Yadav said preparations have been made to deal with the situation. “Efforts will be made to ensure the roads are not blocked and if required, the traffic from NH-44 will be diverted,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-farmers-intensify-protest-against-agriculture-laws-call-for-statewide-chakka-jam-on-november-5/story-zRXyB0vwslMY6FR7lllzJK.html
04-11-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram exceeds target coverage of polio vaccine by nearly 15 percent||As part of a three-day intensified pulse polio immunisation (IPPI) drive, conducted earlier this week, an estimated 2,400 healthcare workers in the district immunised over 180,000 children under the age of five, by administering them drops of the oral polio vaccine (OPV). With this drive, the health department exceeded its target, pegged at covering 160,000 infants, by nearly 15 percent. On an average, 72 children were immunised per healthcare worker involved in the campaign.Health department officials said that while it is not uncommon for such immunisation drives to exceed their coverage targets, doing so amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic proved to be especially challenging, with a majority of the district’s healthcare workers currently being involved in the pandemic response. Dr Naresh Garg, district immunisation officer, Gurugram, explained that an IPPI, which is conducted three to four times a year, usually enlists as many as 8,000 to 10,000 healthcare workers for door-to-door vaccination campaigns. The IPPI drive conducted in September and November this year, however, relied on not more than 2,500 healthcare to meet the same targets.“A large portion of our staff is still engaged in the response to Covid-19. As such, this year, only about 2,240 healthcare workers, along with 176 supervising officers, were enlisted to carry out the IPPI drive earlier in September and now this month. In both cases, the field staff have had to work doubly hard to cover the same numbers. Our annual coverage target is 3.5 lakh children — the same as 2019. Like last year, it has been adequately met,” said Garg, adding that the department has also relied on assistance from volunteer NGOs working in the field of public health, as well as several ASHA (accredited social health activist) workers at the primary healthcare centre (PHC) level. Health department data shows that a total of 184,849 children under the age five have been covered in the recently concluded IPPI. This was done as part of a sub-national immunisation campaign, which covered high-risk areas in 13 districts of Haryana. An earlier sub-national IPPI, held from September 22 to 24, had successfully immunised 128,529 children against polio (against a target coverage of 110,000 children) while at least another 0.1 million children were immunised early this year, as part of a National Immunisation Day campaign.To make full use of their limited manpower this year, Garg said, health department staff, volunteers and contractual National Health Mission (NHM) staff carried out door-to-door awareness campaigns in high-risk areas, such as Tigra, Badshahpur, Wazirabad, Laxman Vihar and others, early last week, to let people know of the upcoming immunisation drive. “On Sunday, which was the first day of the IPPI, the outreach exercises successfully brought 87,701 children to about 400 pulse polio booths set up across PHCs and their sub-centres, allowing us to meet half our target in just one day,” said Garg.Another 97,148 children were subsequently immunised on Monday and Tuesday in door-to-door vaccine drives conducted across the district by nearly 1,000 mobile teams, comprising two-members each, which in previous years were carried out by four-member teams. The entire exercise was overviewed by Dr Bindu Yadav, the World Health Organisation’s (WHO) surveillance medical officer in Gurugram, who said, “Polio drives are extremely manpower intensive, since we have to cover an extremely large number of children over several districts. It is a feat in itself that officials have been able to meet their targets with fewer resources this year. Each individual involved in the polio response has had to work to their fullest ability.”However, she also added that a slight rejigging in immunisation criteria has also facilitated meeting of these targets. “Usually IPPIs cover a larger area, geographically speaking. This time, the drives were intensified in areas deemed especially high-risk. Therefore, we covered more people in smaller areas,” she said. Yadav pointed out that these areas are also those which are at the highest risk of Covid-19, due to poor sanitary conditions and densely packed homes.Health department data shows that, out of the 18 primary healthcare centre blocks in Gurugram, only two blocks have not met their targeted coverage of the oral polio vaccine. These are Farukhnagar (where 96% of the target was met), and Bhora Kalan (which met only 85% of the target ). Officials said this was not alarming. “It is not uncommon for a couple of areas to have less coverage. These are typically poorer pockets with migrant populations that move around frequently. Overall though, we have been able to meet last year’s coverage target,” said Garg.The last case of polio detected in Haryana dates back to 2011. The state was declared polio-free in 2014. However, immunisation drives against the infectious viral disease are important as they continue to resist the possibility of transboundary entry of the virus into the community. In addition, the health department also audits all registered cases of acute flaccid paralysis (AFP) in the district to check for the re-emergence of the virus. While officials were not able to provide data on AFP cases detected this year, they admitted it has been less than the previous years. “This is due to weakened disease surveillance in the face of pandemic, not because there are actually fewer number of cases of AFP. Therefore, meeting immunisation targets becomes all the more important, since surveillance is already affected,” Yadav added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-exceeds-target-coverage-of-polio-vaccine-by-nearly-15-percent/story-yURd8zX3h6ZxhZaGKOZz2J.html
04-11-2020||Gurugram||HSPCB study to assess sources of pollution in four cities unlikely to begin this winter||A study to comprehensively assess the sources of air and noise pollution in Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat and Panipat is unlikely to commence this winter, despite being floated by the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) a year ago, in November 2019. The HSPCB’s proposal for the study, which is known as a source apportionment study, received only a solitary bid from a Delhi-based research organisation, which officials said was not enough to proceed with the study.Jai Bhagwan Sharma, senior scientist, HSPCB, Panchkula, who is overseeing the study, said that while an expression of interest (EOI) for the study was floated in November last year, the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic and the ensuing lockdown resulted in a delay. “When we took stock of the bids received, we found that only a single Delhi-based research institute had approached us to conduct the study in all four cities. A committee was then formed to comb through the finer details of the proposal. The committee met on September 28 and it was decided to issue a new EOI, so that we can receive more bids and pick the most viable option,” Sharma said.Sharma added that the study, which is expected to last at least 18 months from the date of commencement, is unlikely to commence this winter cycle as originally intended. The study is being commissioned by the HSPCB under the aegis of the Centre’s National Clean Air Programme (NCAP). While such studies have been earlier commissioned by the Delhi government, they have not yet been carried out in the satellite towns of Delhi-NCR. “In Delhi, there are two official studies, which were conducted by the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kanpur and the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (Neeri). We are aiming to engage an institution of similar repute for our subject cities,” said S Narayanan, member secretary, HSPCB.Officials added that the study is being undertaken pursuant to the ‘Comprehensive Action Plan for Clean Air for Cities of Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat and Panipat in Haryana’, which was drafted earlier last year, and is a part of the NCAP. Gurugram and Faridabad were added to the list of initial 102 non-attainment cities covered under the NCAP in July 2019. A non-attainment city is one where the prescribed National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) are not followed.“Since the implementation of same interventions in two cities, having different meteorology, topography and different typology of air polluting sources, is unlikely to give same results, the choice of interventions to control urban air pollution has to be city specific, drawn on the basis of scientific study (sic),” states the EOI issued last November by the HSPCB. The EOI further states, “The aim of the study is to promote and demonstrate a more rational & proactive approach to air quality management in urban areas (sic).” The study, officials explained, will be based largely based on 90 days of ambient air quality monitoring conducted over the summer, monsoon and winter, to demonstrate and quantify the seasonal variations in air pollution. The daily sampling times will further be divided into three eight-hour sessions (06.00 hours to 14.00 hours, 14.00 hours to 22.00 hours, and 22.00 hours to 06.00 hours), which will capture the diurnal variations in sources and meteorology of air pollution. This study will also involve a systematic survey of vehicle population with an emphasis on vehicles older than 20 years. The aim is to find cost-effective solutions to curb their emissions as these represent a major portion of the city’s total vehicular population.“On completion of data collection, validation and interpretation of the assimilated information, a detailed road map will be drawn considering all possible measures for air quality improvement. These measures will be classified into short and long terms with due priority to low-cost measures that can give maximum benefit,” the HSPCB’s EOI goes on to state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/hspcb-study-to-assess-sources-of-pollution-in-four-cities-unlikely-to-begin-this-winter/story-8fkDNkuouAipkqg1khbCuK.html
04-11-2020||Gurugram||Mercury rises, favourable wind direction keeps air quality ‘poor’||The minimum temperature of the city increased to 14.1 degrees Celsius on Wednesday, from 12 degrees Celsius recorded on Tuesday, according to the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) Palam observatory in Delhi. The city had recorded the lowest minimum temperature on Sunday at 10.2 degrees Celsius. IMD officials said that the minimum temperature is expected to increase further on Thursday. “The minimum temperature has increased today and we expect it to rise further on Thursday. It can stay around 11 in Delhi-NCR. We do not expect a cold wave in the next two days,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) regional weather forecasting centre. A maximum temperature of 26.6 degrees Celsius was recorded, which was four degrees Celsius below the normal. The IMD has forecast a maximum temperature of 29 degrees Celsius for the week. Srivastava said that poor visibility is, however, expected on Thursday on account of poor air quality. “The pollution level has increased due to which visibility will remain low. Shallow to moderate fog is expected to prevail tomorrow,” said Srivastava. Air quality in the city remained in the ‘poor’ category, with a reading of 296 on the Central Pollution Control Board’s air quality index (AQI) bulletin. This was up from Tuesday’s reading of 270, which experts attributed to slower winds, leading to an accumulation of airborne pollutants. However, the northwesterly direction of prevailing winds remains favourable for Gurugram, which was the only major NCR city to record ‘poor’ quality air on Wednesday. Delhi, Faridabad, Ghaziabad and Noida all recorded ‘very poor’ air quality on the day.With northwesterly winds, with speeds of 5 to 15kmph, expected to prevail on Thursday as well, Gurugram may see yet another day of ‘poor’ air before the situation deteriorates further. The forecasted AQI for the city on Thursday, as per the CPCB’s central control room for air quality management, is 297. As per the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, “Air quality is likely to remain in lower end of Very Poor category on 04.11.2020 and higher end of very poor category on 05.11.2020.” However, experts said that Gurugram may see better air quality than other parts of the region until wind patterns change.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mercury-rises-favourable-wind-direction-keeps-air-quality-poor/story-CsNpTKkLI4TRxL6nwRM7OM.html
04-11-2020||Gurugram||Golf Course Ext Road, one of the most dangerous since lockdown||The Golf Course Extension Road has become one of the most dangerous spots for commuters during nights. In the last month, many commuters have fallen victim to robbers, who operate on this stretch on motorbikes up to the Kherki Daula toll plaza via southern peripheral road (SPR), the police said.The police have attributed the recent surge in increased criminal activities to outlaws who were forced to remain indoors during the lockdown. The police also said that most of the streetlights are also defunct, which makes it further unsafe.Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that they have arrested more than 50 criminals from this stretch, many of whom were drug addicts and had robbed commuters of their vehicles and belongings. “The suspects arrested were majorly from Nuh and Rajasthan. They sell the vehicles for half the price to dealers in Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan. Some of them carry out thefts to fund their drug addictions,” he said.The police said that 13 carjacking cases have been reported on this 14-kilometre stretch since the lockdown.Sangwan said that crime on the stretch has seen a sharp increase after lockdown. “We are conducting nakabandis, gathering intelligence and also conducting raids based on the information we have received regarding the suspects,” he said.KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said the crucial part of the process is keeping a tab on those recently released from Bhondsi jail. “The process involves gathering intelligence from informants about the suspects’ latest activities and whether they were involved in similar activities on the same stretch,” he said.Rao said the biggest challenge is to identify the suspected vehicles due to darkness on the stretch.Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP), which is responsible for the streetlights on the stretch, assured action soon.Arun Dhankhar, the superintendent engineer of HSVP, said that they regularly check streetlights on this stretch but some miscreants damage them intentionally. “We have directed the electrical team to repair the damaged light at the earliest. We are taking a stock of the situation on the entire stretch and a team will be sent every night to check if any lights are non-functional” he said.Residents of Golf Course Extension Road said they are scared to step on to the roads at night. “It has been more than 15 days since we complained about the absence of streetlights, but no one from the agency responsible has come to solve the problem. It is scary to drive on Golf Course Extension Road at night,” said Vaibhav Jaiswal, a resident of Unitech Escape on Golf Course Extension Road.Rao said they are increasing police patrolling in the areas where lighting is poor. Special care is taken in sectors that have offices and markets. “We have also deployed three PCR vans on the stretch to attend to any emergency,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/golf-course-ext-road-one-of-the-most-dangerous-since-lockdown/story-0L4VtZxOKJTNbKkHCiqNsJ.html
04-11-2020||City||Air quality in Ambala, Fatehabad turns ‘severe’, ‘very poor’ in nine Haryana cities||The air quality in Haryana’s Fatehabad and Ambala districts turned ‘severe’ on Wednesday, as per the Central Pollution Control Board. The air quality index (AQI) of Fatehabad was 452 and Ambala 408. The AQI between 0 to 50 is considered good, 51 to 100 satisfactory, 101 to 200 moderate, 201 to 300 poor, 301 to 400 very poor and 401 to 500 severe. The AQI of nine cities including Kaithal (382), Yamunanagar (369), Panipat (368), Jind (367), Hisar (350), Bahadurgarh (340), Sirsa (332), Sonipat (330) and Faridabad (321) was ‘very poor’ while the air quality in six other cities including Karnal (298), Gurugram (296), Ballabgarh (288), Bhiwani (288), Manesar (283), Rohtak (267) was ‘poor’.The AQI in Chandigarh was ‘poor’ at 203. Meanwhile, as per the latest data of the Haryana Space Applications Centre (HARSAC), 273 fresh active fire locations were detected in the state on Wednesday, taking the total cases of farm fires during this year’s paddy harvesting season to 6,382.As per the data compiled by the Haryana Pollution Control Board, maximum farm fire incidents were reported from Kaithal (1,193), followed by Karnal (974), Kurukshetra (821), Fatehabad (818), Ambala (769), Yamunanagar (434), Jind (513), Hisar (177), Sirsa (277), Palwal (106).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/air-quality-in-ambala-fatehabad-turns-severe-very-poor-in-nine-haryana-cities/story-xwFvEmqIjlfXZIObflUwcN.html
04-11-2020||Gurugram||Woman shot at in robbery attempt near Golf Course Extension Road||A 26-year-old woman executive was shot in the head by three unidentified men near Sector 65, about 50 metres from Golf Course Extension Road in the city on Tuesday night, in a suspected robbery attempt. She is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Sector 38 and her condition is stated to be critical.According to the police, the woman and her soon-to-be fiance were returning home in a car after having dinner, when assailants fired at them after a failed attempt to rob them of their car.The woman, Pooja Sharma, of Chhattisgarh, lives in a rented accommodation in Sector 40. Sharma and her companion, Sagar Manchanda (30), of Roorkee in Uttarakhand, work for a multinational IT company in Gurugram. The police said that they were about to get engaged.The incident took place after 11pm, when they were out for a drive and Sharma was at the wheel.Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (ACP), crime, said that Sharma started driving the vehicle after crossing Kherki Daula toll plaza towards Southern Peripheral Road (SPR). Both of them went to see Manchanda’s under-construction apartment in Sector 65, near Golf Course Extension Road.“While they were returning to Sector 40, after crossing the road near an international school, they spotted three men on a motorbike approaching them on the wrong side on the road. When the trio intercepted them, Sharma applied brakes. Two men got down and pointed pistols at their glass window panes,” he said.Manchanda said they had immediately locked the car as they were scared. “One man came to my side and asked to roll down the window. Another went towards Pooja’s side. One of them shot at me as I did not follow his instruction but I escaped. Seeing this, Pooja tried to press the accelerator and the suspect standing close to her glass window shot her in the head,” he said.Manchanda said the three suspects, upon seeing Sharma fall on the steering wheel, fled the spot on their motorbike. “I had no time to shift Pooja from the seat. I sat on her legs and drove towards a private hospital in Sector 38 and informed the police and her family members,” he said. He shifted her with help of a person after crossing the stretch, where he saw movement of people.A team from the Sector 65 police station that was patrolling in the stretch reached the spot and later the hospital. They recorded Manchanda’s statement, based on which a case under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 34 (common intention of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections of Arms Act, 1959, was registered at Sector 65 police station against unidentified masked men. A probe is in progress, said police.Sangwan said that Manchanda, in his statement, told police that they had dinner at a restaurant in Sector 31 and left for a drive towards the Delhi-Jaipur Expressway around 8pm. After crossing Kherki Daula toll plaza, they took left on the SPR and visited a society in Sector 65, as he wanted to show her his apartment. “They had crossed the Sector 65 road around 11.15pm when they spotted three masked men on a motorbike, but ignored them. The trio then followed them from the wrong side after they crossed the road,” he said.The police are scanning CCTV camera footage from different locations to identify the suspects. Sangwan said they are probing all the details and also looking at an angle of possible rivalry. “We have recovered more than nine CCTV footage where the car and motorbike are seen, but due to it being dark, we could not identify the bike’s registration number. The exact reason will be ascertained after the suspects are arrested,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/woman-shot-at-in-robbery-attempt-near-golf-course-extension-road/story-83uEC6mTysgSitg56QDX8N.html
04-11-2020||Gurugram||Speed calming measures introduced at Sikanderpur underpass||In a bid to check speeding and high-speed collisions, the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) and DLF have installed rumble strips, a speed calming measure, on the 3.5-kilometre accident-prone stretch between Shankar Chowk and Bristol Chowk over the last week.The 3.5-kilometre route facilitates movement through the Golf Course Road-Cyber City stretches, via the Sikanderpur underpass. The GMDA has installed four sets of rumble strips, two on each carriageway inside the Sikanderpur underpass, on opposite ends.Each set of rumble strips has three parts, a series of six continuous strips, followed by 10, and another six, all located within a short distance of each other.“We have installed rumble strips inside the Sikanderpur underpass as an experiment to see if it can be an effective and safe speed calming measure. If not properly designed and placed carefully, rumble strips can be dangerous, especially inside underpasses, as it can lead drivers to lose control of their vehicles. However, this experiment has been successful and has prompted us to consider using them at other points across the city,” said VS Kundu, chief executive officer (CEO) of GMDA.Kundu further said that the rationale behind introducing rumble strips was to check speeds on the accident-prone stretch and reduce the chances of collisions.Although Kundu said that the next locations for installing rumble strips are still under consideration, GMDA officials privy to the matter said that the DLF Phases 1/4 underpass and Genpact underpass on the Golf Course Road are likely to be the next locations.In January, GMDA had floated a Rs 8 lakh-tender for installing rumble strips inside the Sikanderpur underpass. However, due to the coronavirus outbreak, the project had to be indefinitely postponed.DLF, the caretaker of the Golf Course Road and Cyber City stretches, has also installed a set of rumble strips on both the carriageways of Cyber City Road opposite Infinity Towers, just ahead of the foot overbridge.DLF officials said that they are also planning on installing rumble strips at the road bends opposite building number 9 and Belvedere Park, in the future.“After deliberating upon various speed calming measures, DLF finalised rumble strips as the preferred option. Unlike speed breakers, these reduce the speed of vehicles in such a manner that there is no traffic build-up resulting in snarls. By placing rumble strips at short intervals, vehicles can no longer travel at high speeds, and thus the chances of accidents also reduce significantly. DLF is planning on installing rumble strips on more such stretches,” said David Amalraj, director, DLF Estate Developers Ltd.Besides the rumble strips, signage depicting a speed limit of 50 kmph has also been placed at various points along the 3.5-kilometre stretch by DLF officials.Since the redesign of the Golf Course Road-Cyber City roads in 2017, several high-speed accidents leading to fatalities have been reported. Three months ago, a 49-year-old man died after being hit by a speeding sedan opposite Belvedere Park. In May 2018, two people died and a woman co-pilot with a commercial airliner was severely injured after their cab collided with an SUV that was travelling on the wrong side of the Sikanderpur underpass.Sewa Ram, an urban transport systems design expert and a faculty member at the School of Planning and Architecture (SPA), said that as per the Indian Road Congress (IRC) guidelines, speed breakers cannot be placed on main roads such as Golf Course Road or Cyber City roads, as it would lead to traffic congestion.“In the absence of speed breakers, installing rumble strips makes sense in regards to checking the speed of vehicles, especially due to the fact that there are several curves and sharp bends on the Bristol Chowk-Shankar Chowk stretch. It is also important for authorities to install stud reflectors on top of the rumble strips to ensure these are visible at night, along with installing signage cautioning commuters about approaching rumble strips,” said Sewa Ram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/speed-calming-measures-introduced-at-sikanderpur-underpass/story-qu4VAen5zmVLEwklT53hGJ.html
04-11-2020||Gurugram||Haryana government drafts policy for affordable rental housing projects||The Haryana government has come up with a policy for the development of rental housing projects meant only for local and migrant workers, who are not in a position to buy property due to financial reasons. This rental housing policy — the draft of which was made public on Monday — aims to facilitate the development of apartments in the affordable segment exclusively for corporate executives, and industrial and migrant workers. As per the officials of the department of town and country planning(DTCP), all housing projects developed under the affordable rental policy can only be offered on rent for a minimum period of one year and maximum period of 99 years. These units, however, cannot be sold under the Haryana Apartment Ownership Act or under any other existing laws. This is meant to ensure that the ownership of project remains undivided, said officials. To encourage the participation of corporates and industries, the policy allows the developer to enter into tie-ups with one or more industrial units or corporates to cater to the housing requirements for their workers on both short-term and long-term basis. DTCP officials said that projects across the state will be granted permission and minimum area required for setting up a project would be 0.5 acres while the maximum area would be 2 acres. The proposed site should have an access road of minimum 12 metres, the draft policy states. The minimum and maximum number of persons allowed per acre would be 1,000 and 1,600 respectively. The policy proposes to fix the floor area ratio at 250, the ground coverage at 50% and keeps 4% area for the development of commercial establishments like shops. The size of the apartments would be between 20 square metres and 50 square metres. The developer will also have to provide parking for two-wheelers depending on the area. A facility for a community hall and anganwari-cum-creche would also have to be a part of these affordable rental housing projects, the draft policy states.Makrand Pandurang, director, DTCP, said that this policy has been drafted to ensure that affordable housing is made available to those people who want it on rent. “The chief minister had announced this plan in his budget speech and this policy aims to provide rental housing to industrial and migrant workers, who are in the need of affordable housing. Further, such projects will be easier to set up as only CLU (change of land use) permission will required,” Pandurang said, adding that small plots in villages, labour clusters and leftover plots can be developed for these projects. A senior DTCP official said that the decision on rent would be based on area, facilities and location but will be kept within affordable limits. “The decision on rent will be taken at the time of finalising this policy and it will be reasonable so that working-class people can afford it. A monitoring committee headed by deputy commissioner and senior DTCP officials will keep a close watch on every aspect, including rentals,” he said. City-based developers, meanwhile, said that affordable rental policy was positive move with huge potential in the near future. “This policy will create newer avenues for housing for the common people. However, there should not be a cap on the project area and the sale of individual units should be allowed because individual investors will not be able put their money in these projects as they do it in commercial real estate projects,” said Pradeep Agarwal, managing director, Signature Developer, an affordable housing company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-government-drafts-policy-for-affordable-rental-housing-projects/story-4r1YxMbOiztuv7AoFTOPSJ.html
04-11-2020||Gurugram||Colleges set to resume on Nov 16||The state higher education department on Tuesday issued a standard operating procedure (SOP) for the initiation of physical classroom sessions in colleges, in a staggered manner, from November 16. In the directive shared with universities and colleges in the state, the department said that research scholars and postgraduate students in science and technology would be allowed to visit colleges for the purpose of research and laboratory work, with generic preventive measures in place. Officials said that the same rules would be applied to undergraduate courses across the state. As per the guidelines, online/distance learning will continue to be the preferred mode of teaching and shall be encouraged. Students who wish to continue with online classes will be permitted to do so and attendance will not be enforced. Online classes in the state started from November 2. Pooja Khullar, principal of Dronacharya Government College, said that the college had prepared a timetable for different departments that would be updated in line with new directions before November 16. “We have received oral instructions regarding the staggered manner in which classes will take place for different courses. Students from different courses will be asked to appear for classes on different days. We are still awaiting details regarding the student strength that would be permitted,” said Khullar. She said that while online classes had started for most courses, the response of students has not been good. “From November 16, we are expecting more students to turn up since many face issues due to lack of devices or other connectivity issues. At the same time, there are concerns with people talking about the third wave of Covid-19 cases. For now, we will work towards putting in place adequate measures ahead of the reopening,” said Khullar. Ramesh Garg, principal of Government Girls College, Sector 14, said that while online classes had not been fully initiated in the college, normal classroom sessions are expected from November 16. “We will put in place a timetable for students and start physical classes as per government guidelines. Online classes have not been taking place due to exams right now, but from November 16, we expect classes to become regular,” said Garg. Srishti Yadav, a second-year BSc student of Government Girls College in Sector 14, said that while students were participating in online classes, connectivity continued to be an issue due to which students would prefer physical classroom sessions. “All students do not have access to mobile phones. Even when they have devices, there are network connectivity issues which prevent a seamless delivery of classes,” said Yadav. She said students had concerns due to the rising number of cases but would not be opposed to the idea of physical classroom sessions for clearing doubts. “Sometimes, due to connectivity and other issues, classes get delayed or disrupted. If given a chance to visit college, I would try and get my doubts cleared since there are some gaps in the online mechanism,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/colleges-set-to-resume-on-nov-16/story-iAty0MAeG9W94ZvHPcbLOJ.html
04-11-2020||Gurugram||Highest single-day spike in Covid cases sends alarm bells ringing||The district on Wednesday reported its highest single-day spike in coronavirus (Covid-19) infections, with 611 new cases recorded. The number of active cases also surpassed 4,000 infections, a week after the count hit the 3,000 mark.The daily new cases have increased by nearly 50% in less than two weeks, taking the tally of Covid-19 cases to 31,996. Experts said that the pandemic fatigue, indoor transmission of the virus during winter months and the reopening of business and outdoor activities will lead to further increase in the transmission if preventive steps are not taken.It is the fifth time since October 16 that a new single-day record spike was recorded. Virus resurgence to high levels started with 294 new infections recorded on October 16, which climbed to 304 on October 21 and further to 398 on October 24. An uptick of 498 new cases was reported on October 31, followed by 529 on November 1.The alarming increase in Covid-19 infections has also raised concerns over the increasing positivity rate — the ratio of positive cases to the total number of tests conducted — over the last two weeks.Data shows that weekly average positivity rate is now almost 15%, up from 12% reported in the last week of October. Epidemiologically, a higher positivity rate suggests higher transmission with more number of people who haven’t been tested yet. On whether the testing levels are keeping up with the disease transmission, experts said that the positivity rate is moderately high and there is a scope of increasing the testing instead of simply focusing on high-risk population.As per the district health department data, an average 3,000 tests are conducted daily, of which nearly 90% are administered through Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR), the most reliable test for Covid-19. The rapid antigen tests have declined in the last one week as the health department has been running short of kits provided by the state government.“High positivity rate is due to testing of only high-risk people. It is, therefore, important to increase the testing to reduce the transmission, otherwise, it would lead to a further surge in infection,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology and infectious disease at the Indian Council of Medical Research.Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head of community medicine department and school of public health, PGIMER-Chandigarh, said that positivity rate of Gurugram is moderately high. “Data shows that new Covid-19 cases have doubled in less than two weeks. Considering the incubation period of the infection, which is five to seven days, the new 611 confirmed cases contracted the virus five to six days back. In absence of precautionary norms or testing, the infection can double to 1,200 in next one week,” said Kumar.Taking results of the second serological survey of Gurugram into account, Kumar said that nearly 70% of the population is susceptible to infection. “Results shows that nearly 26% population in urban areas of Gurugram has developed antibodies against infection, which means nearly 74% are vulnerable to the infection. With its dense population and increased mobility, Gurugram is seeing the outbreak of the pandemic within this susceptible population, which is huge,” said Kumar, suggesting that infection rate must be suppressed until a vaccine is available.According to Kumar, epidemiologically, without taking any precautionary measures, the coronavirus can impact near 60% of the susceptible population, which makes it crucial to suppress the infection. “It can be done in the current situation, but precautionary norms are to be taken seriously by citizens.”Kant said that if serious measures are not taken to curtail the infection then the existing health care infrastructure will be overburdened. “People who require timely treatment may be devoid of it if cases of Covid-19 continue to spread at the current pace. It is a bad situation across Delhi-NCR, as high transmission is taking place. Government has to take serious measures, which can be unpopular, to curtail the interaction and mixing of people to bring down the infection,” he said.In Gurugram, the district administration and health department, too, are issuing advisories as cases continue to mount. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “Contact tracing will be increased to spread the transmission. It is high time for the citizens to take the deadly infection seriously, as rising numbers would now cast its impact on mortality in the next few months.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/highest-single-day-spike-in-covid-cases-sends-alarm-bells-ringing/story-eMQ4wmZUxDokF7frvND0SP.html
04-11-2020||Chandigarh||Lawyer’s remarks against court: HC imposes Rs 50,000 fine on petitioner||The Punjab and Haryana high court has imposed a fine of ₹50,000 on a Kaithal resident, whose counsel when faced with dismissal of petition told the court that he “had been instrumental in making many a judge.”The court also imposed ₹50,000 on the man fine for ‘concealment of facts’.The order was passed by high court bench of justice Arun Monga, who was hearing a plea from Shiv Kumar Chauhan, seeking direction to deputy commissioner and superintendent of police to initiate action for committing a fraud by trust members of a private school in the district. As per the plea, the petitioner was removed ‘fraudulently’ by the trust members as secretary in 2016 but police did not act on his complaints.On November 3, when the court was about to pass dismissal order and impose a cost of ₹ 50,000 on the petitioner, his lawyer Sushil Gautam, the court says “very rowdily exuberates that paying costs is not an issue and he is even ready to pay ₹1 lakh towards the same”.“He also boisterously claims that he has been instrumental in making many a judges and how can his arguments/contentions, therefore, be rejected by this court to dismiss the instant petition,” says the order.The judge observed that the bench could have passed more strict order but it is taking a lenient view and preferring self-restraint from taking any further action and enhanced the fine on petitioner to ₹1 lakh in view of the lawyer’s behaviour.As per order, during the hearing it had come to light that two civil suits are pending on the controversy before a court but the petitioner could not satisfactorily state as to why this fact was not disclosed in the plea.It also said prima facie the dispute seems to be civil in nature and institution of the criminal proceedings is being sought for “collateral pressure and for settling private scores/gains”.The petitioner should have first approached the trial court for redressal of his grievance before coming to the high court, it added.The court recorded that the petitioner indulged in “subtle concealment” of facts and does not inspire any confidence for its intervention and therefore the fine was imposed to be deposited in Covid-19 fund of UT administration.Gautam said, “I am yet to get a copy of the order. If advised so by my client, I would file an appeal against it and make a complaint against relevant people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/lawyer-s-remarks-against-court-hc-imposes-rs-50-000-fine-on-petitioner/story-jr2NzuI0WFZ9CbkpOaCFTO.html
04-11-2020||City||Illegal construction: 12 Zirakpur RWAs to protest against MC officials on November 8||As many as 12 resident welfare associations of Zirakpur will be holding a protest march on November 8 against the officials of the municipal council and builders carrying out illegal construction, which they allege was being done on the behest of the MC.Giving information about the protest, head of joint action committee Sukhdev Chaudhary said more than 12 RWAs are supporting us in the protest against MC officials who are hand in gloves with the builders carrying out illegal construction, scrapping the master plan and not providing basic facilities.Chaudhary said that illegal colonies were mushrooming in Peer Muchalla, Dhakoli and adjoining areas; false agreements were being imposed; unit-wise flats were being sold in place of houses; the master plan had been abolished by the builders; and there was no arrangement of roads, sewer lines and street lights.The protest march will begin from Peer Muchalla-Baltana-Patiala-VIP road chowk and will proceed to the chief minister’s residence in Chandigarh. The joint action committee has urged all the residents of Zirakpur to join in, saying that the interim information of the programme had been sent to the secretary of the local bodies department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/illegal-construction-12-zirakpur-rwas-to-protest-against-mc-officials-on-november-8/story-ReWSxaqcEtJJapvamKSASK.html
04-11-2020||City||Day 1 of TATA Steel PGTI Players Championship 2020: With eight-under, Chandigarh’s Akshay shines bright||Chandigarh golfer Akshay Sharma, who played his last professional tour in February before the pandemic halted the competitive sporting activities in March, was on fire on Day 1 of the resumption of the country’s professional golf circuit during the TATA Steel PGTI Players Championship 2020 at Panchkula Golf Club on Wednesday.Akshay flawlessly finished first in the first round of the four-day event, with a card of eight-under-64. He was followed by Asian Tour regular Chikkarangappa of Bengaluru at six-under-66.The tournament, which is being played across two venues at Panchkula Golf Club and Chandigarh Golf Club, has a unique format: One half of the field will play their first round at Panchkula while the other half will play their first round at Chandigarh. In round two, both the halves of the field will switch venues. The third and fourth rounds will only be played at Panchkula.“This was my first competition after almost eight months, but I was fully prepared for the competitive circuit as I was regularly playing pro-pool rounds with fellow professionals these past few months. I am very happy that I played as per my expectations,” said 30-year-old Akshay.“From the beginning, I was quite accurate as I found all fairways and made 17 greens in regulation. Throughout the round I was enjoying my game and by the time I finished the first-nine, I knew I was going to wrap up today’s round with a great score.“Playing at Panchkula was the bigger challenge for me as Chandigarh is my home course. I didn’t expect to go so low here, so this score is like a bonus for me as I’m confident of doing well in Chandigarh tomorrow,” Akshay added.Day’s best score recorded at Chandigarh Golf ClubThe two leading scores of the day came from the Panchkula Golf Club, while Kolkata’s Sunit Chowrasia recorded the day’s best score at Chandigarh Golf Club of five-under-67, to occupy the third place. Another Chandigarh golfer Karandeep Kochhar shot a 68 at the Chandigarh club to be tied fourth along with Gurugram’s Manu Gandas.Former winner on the PGTI in 2018, Akshay was delighted to get off the blocks with an error-free round. His good placement on the fairways and greens at Panchkula set up five birdie putts within a range of three to four feet for him, which he went on to convert. He also sank three long birdie putts of 12 to 15 feet.Chikkarangappa, a 13-time winner on the PGTI, also got off to a splendid start on Wednesday, but had a contrasting round as compared to Akshay’s. Chikka sank nine birdies in exchange for three bogeys in a round where he made some tremendous recoveries after finding the hazard or the trees on at least four occasions. He also performed well with the putter draining four birdies from a range of 12 to 15 feet.Chandigarh’s Aadil Bedi and Patna’s Aman Raj were tied sixth with scores of 69; Delhi-based Rashid Khan, 70, was tied 13th; Udayan Mane, 71, of Pune, the PGTI Order of Merit leader was tied 20th; Chandigarh’s Ajeetesh Sandhu, 72, was tied 29th; and Khalin Joshi, 74, and Viraj Madappa, 74, were both tied 47th.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/day-1-of-tata-steel-pgti-players-championship-2020-with-eight-under-chandigarh-s-akshay-shines-bright/story-r74FcEO1PV9Ie0M752QbhO.html
04-11-2020||Mumbai||Three students of University of Mumbai’s IDOL appear for BA online exam from abroad||Even as students of the University of Mumbai (MU) were appearing for their final-year (summer 2020) exams online from all over India, some also managed to appear for exams from across the globe. The varsity’s distance education wing, Institute of Distance and Open Learning (IDOL), revealed on Wednesday that three of their students appeared for their third-year Bachelor in Arts (BA) exams from the United States of America, France and Germany this year.State university exams were held online for the first time this year due to the increasing Covid-19 cases and the resultant lockdown. “Exams for IDOL’s third-year BA students started on October 26 and concluded on November 4. Three students managed to appear for their papers successfully from abroad and we’re happy that they didn’t to travel for the examinations,” said the spokesperson for IDOL. While one of the student had to travel to Germany for work before appearing for his exams, the other two were studying and working in the USA and France and could sit for their exams from their respective residences. “Two of the students were from third-year BA (Economics) while the third was from the third-year BA (English) batch of IDOL. They all gave successful feedback to the exam process,” added the spokesperson.IDOL exams had to be rescheduled this year after the first session in the first week of October was marred by technical glitches that left around 9,000 third-year Bachelor of Commerce (BCom) and BA students unable to appear for the tests online.While the rescheduled backlog exams were held on Google forms on October 19, 20 and 21, the exams for fresh candidates were conducted by a new service provider hired by the university in the last week of October.The contract with the original exam service provider, LittleMORE Innovation Labs, was cancelled after the incident. The university approved a new service provider, Pune-based Splashgain Technology Solutions, last week to conduct the online exams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/three-students-of-university-of-mumbai-s-idol-appear-for-ba-online-exam-from-abroad/story-14yoEBMoZvg5AbJvBbndeK.html
04-11-2020||Delhi||DJB requests Union Home ministry’s intervention for pending bills by Delhi police||Delhi Jal Board vice chairperson Raghav Chadha on Wednesday asked for union home ministry’s intervention regarding Delhi Police’s pending bill of R607 crore to the water board. Chadha on Wednesday met union minister of state for home affairs, G Kishan Reddy requesting him to direct the Delhi police to release the funds they owe to the DJB. “The VC requested the minister’s intervention in recovering the dues running into Rs 607 crore, so that the financial challenges facing the board can be overcome,” the DJB said in a statement. Chadha told the minister that the water utility had sent multiple show cause notices to Delhi Police, but did not get any response. “This has hindered the smooth expedition of the functions and duties of the board, which is doing the groundwork for expanding its operations, and bringing about revolutionary changes in the current structure of water supply as well as water management,” the statement read. “All of this requires regular flow of finances. Releasing the dues owed to the DJB would go a long way in meeting necessary and immediate expenses,” it said. Chadha said that due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the economic condition of the state government is in a bad shape and the Delhi government wants to complete all such pending transactions. In September, Chadha had said that around seven government agencies had not cleared the bills of the DJB. “Railways owes Rs 3,283 crore to the DJB for the services provided by it, while the CPWD (Central Public Works Department) has to clear dues amounting to Rs 190 crore,” Chadha had said. The DDA owes Rs 128 crore, East Delhi Municipal Corporation Rs 49 crore, North Delhi Municipal Corporation Rs 2,466 crore and South Delhi Municipal Corporation Rs 81 crore, the DJB vice-chairman had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/djb-requests-union-home-ministry-s-intervention-for-pending-bills-by-delhi-police/story-QFcq4xDplDEJVKvHmP3dhI.html
04-11-2020||City||Chandigarh-Kharar flyover project: Ludhiana link to open on December 15||Having missed several deadlines, the Mohali administration has finally set December 15 as the date for opening the Ludhiana link of the Chandigarh-Kharar flyover project, while the Rupnagar link is expected to get completed by January 15 next year.Kharar sub-divisional magistrate Himanshu Jain, who met National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) and Larsen & Toubro officials on Wednesday, said that after reviewing the work, December 15 has been set as the deadline for opening the Ludhiana side of the flyover for vehicular traffic.“The work is being done on a war footing and 88% has been completed. The Rupnagar side of the flyover will also be opened by January 15,” he said.A senior NHAI official, who did not wish to be named, said the work on stretches near Desumajra and Sunny Enclave in Kharar will be completed as soon as the work on the Khanpur bridge is over. “We are now in a hurry to complete the project as it is already delayed,” he said.The national highway where the flyover is coming up connects Chandigarh to parts of Punjab besides Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh. This leaves Kharar as a major bottleneck. About 50,000 vehicles cross the stretch on an average daily. The project, which entails widening of the road between Balongi and Kharar T-point and includes construction of two flyovers and three minor bridges, has been hanging fire for the past five years. The total length of the flyovers (divided into three parts) is around 10km. The ₹368-crore project being executed by Larsen & Toubro was initiated in November 2015 and has missed six deadlines, after initially poised to be completed in three years by December 2018. From delay in land acquisition to other administrative hurdles and mostly recently workforce issues amid the pandemic were the main reasons for the delay. The NHAI had recently opened 1-km stretch of the flyover starting from Balongi (called the Balongi flyover) for vehicular traffic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-kharar-flyover-project-ludhiana-link-to-open-on-december-15/story-qyE8VuIOmu3mmbjf9QF3AI.html
04-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity’s daily Covid count goes past 200 again||After tiding over the September surge and witnessing a drop in infections in October, the tricity once again recorded more than 200 cases in a day, with 203 people testing positive on Wednesday. As many as five fatalities, including four in Mohali, were also recorded after a considerable gap. In Chandigarh, 94 people tested positive while 51 recovered and a 34-year-old man from Manimajra succumbed to the virus.The infection tally rose to 14,702, and active cases to 671 from 629 on Tuesday. While 13,802 patients have recovered, 229 have died so far.Mohali district reported 76 fresh cases, including 56 in the main city, and 49 recoveries.The four patients who died, taking the toll to 241, had comorbidities and were admitted to different hospitals in the region, said civil surgeon Dr GB Singh. As many as 12,598 people have tested positive so far, of whom 11,784 have recovered and 573 are still undergoing treatment.Panchkula reported no casualty while 33 people, including a two-day-old baby, tested positive in the district. Of 7,264 people infected so far, 6,896 have recovered, 116 have died and 252 are still hospitalised on in home isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-tricity-s-daily-covid-count-goes-past-200-again/story-GIkUcD9XyrqJ8tj0lPZZfP.html
04-11-2020||City||St Stephen’s students raise concerns over fee, matter to be raised in governing body||New Delhi: Second and third-year class representatives at St Stephen’s College have written to the governing body over students being charged for electricity, water, IT, and library fee among other things despite non-usage of these facilities this semester.According to the students, the college on November 2 released the semester term bill, which said third-year hostellers would have to pay Rs 24,292 for this semester, including rent fine, for failing to vacate their rooms. The fee would come down to Rs 18,592 if the rent fine was exempted, students said. A third-year student, who is a day scholar, would have to pay Rs 18,580 this semester.Requesting anonymity, a signatory to the letter, said, “The hike in fee isn’t much but we had to raise our voices for being asked to pay for services not being used by us during the pandemic. Further, our college fee is much higher than other DU colleges and the administration needs to be transparent about where the money is being used.”In the letter sent to the governing body, students wrote, “Students have been charged for the following facilities despite non-usage this semester: Rs 2,400 for electricity and water fee, Rs 2,000 for internet resource centre and information technology (hiked from Rs 1,200 in the previous semester), and Rs 900 for library fee.”  “Newly admitted students have been charged on many services which they will not be able to avail anytime soon. We request if a roll-back of fee on these heads be made possible or an assured refund at a later stage for students.”Nandita Narain, elected teacher representative on the governing body, said, “The teacher representatives in GB have been raising the issue of high fees. A meeting of the college governing body is scheduled for Thursday and I will raise this issue in the meeting. The students are perturbed about the term bill and I have written to the governing body on it.”Despite repeated requests, principal John Varghese and governing body chairperson Bishop Warris Masih did not comment on the matter.In the letter, students alleged the college has not provided any institutional support for online teaching-learning. “To date, we have not observed institutional support for online classes, apart from providing ad-hoc professors with institutional IDs to access GSuite, (freely accessible for educational institutions). Our professors have been using personal Zoom subscriptions or free versions of softwares. Professors and students have been incurring high costs for internet connections and devices. Hence, we are of the understanding that online education cannot be cited as a justification for an enhanced IRC fee, as it does not appear that any hardware, software or training support has been provided so far,” students wrote in the letter.The students have asked for an extension of the deadline for payment of fee and concessions on a case-to-case basis due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent economic impact on families. They raised questions on the Establishment Fee component which charges students Rs 9,600 per semester “without any transparency around its use.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/st-stephen-s-students-raise-concerns-over-fee-matter-to-be-raised-in-governing-body/story-Sn7icJcUsGEhnbDMC72Z6J.html
04-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s air quality gets poor||Chandigarh’s air quality turned poor for the first time this year on Wednesday.In the recent weeks, the Air Quality Index (AQI) stayed between 110 and 130 (moderate level), before starting to rise amid falling temperatures in the past two days, and crossed 200 at 2pm at the Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Station in Sector 25. In 2019, it was on the same date (November 4) that the year’s peak AQI of 335 was recorded in the city.The development comes at a time the Chandigarh administration is planning to ban the sale of firecrackers, fearing rise in Covid infections due to air pollution.Last Diwali, AQI at the monitoring station in Sector 25, which gives live data, had gone up from 237 the previous day to 272. The highest AQI was recorded at the observatory in Sector 22, where it had shot up to 372 (very poor).“The hourly readings may have crossed the 200 mark, but the daily average up to November 3 is 155 at the monitoring station in Sector 25,” said Debendra Dalai, vice-chairman of Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee.Dalai said increase in AQI can be attributed to fall in the mercury, which leads to temperature inversion and decrease in wind speeds, and stubble burning going on in the region.AQI could worsen in coming daysSurender Paul, director, India Meteorological Department, Chandigarh, said: “Although there is no significant change in wind speeds in the city, an anticyclonic movement has started forming over the region. It creates an airlock, preventing any scattering of pollutant particles in vertical motion.”Paul said anticyclonic movement will continue in the city for the next few days, and with no rain likely in the city up to Diwali, the AQI could worsen if stubble burning increases in the region.The AQI this year is still not as bad as last year, mostly due to the lockdown.However, in the poor bracket, the air can cause breathing discomfort to most people on prolonged exposure. The prominent pollutant in the air is PM 2.5, produced by burning, construction works and automobiles. It is small in size due to which it can get directly absorbed into the blood stream and can cause asthma, lung cancer and even heart disease.Cracker ban decision likely todayAmid fear of second Covid wave, the Chandigarh administration is considering banning the sale of firecrackers. However, the decision, which was expected on Wednesday, has been put off.It is likely to be taken by UT administrator VP Singh Badnore on Thursday.Even though a draw of lots for allotment of 96 licences for the sale of firecrackers was held on Tuesday, the administration withheld issuance of the licences. The administration had taken views of health experts, who advised against the bursting of crackers. There is a concern that pollution caused by firecrackers may cause spike in coronavirus cases in the city, UT adviser Manoj Parida had said on Tuesday. The administration had even issued a health advisory, asking people to stay indoors and desist from bursting firecrackers in order to prevent air pollution and to protect the elderly and people with co-morbidities. Congress divided over the issueDevinder Singh Babla, Congress councillor and leader of opposition in the municipal corporation House, on Wednesday posted a request to Badnore on Twitter, seeking complete ban on firecrackers in Chandigarh during Diwali this year. “It will lead to pollution levels beyond control and will further worsen the Covid situation and lead to spike in cases, making it difficult for senior citizens to breath,” he wrote.However, party’s city chief Pardeep Chhabra along with three other local leaders wrote to the administration, demanding the sale of firecrackers “if they have no ill-effects”, stating the “Congress is with cracker traders”, whose livelihood would be affected otherwise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-air-quality-gets-poor/story-4RmRquxzWGtiOoPbZaaoFP.html
04-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Housing Board to demolish 200 shelters in Sector 56||The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) is planning to carry out a special demolition drive for removing more than 200 vacant pre-fabricated shelters at the colony in Sector 56 on November 7.The CHB has written to the deputy commissioner office and the SSP to provide proper security for the maintenance of law and order during the drive.The UT administration had, last month, decided to re-locate the 1,761 families of the pre-fab shelters societies in Sector 52 and 56 to EWS flats in Maloya-I. The project is being implemented by the CHB, under the affordable rental housing complexes (ARHCs) scheme formulated by the government of India.The flats will be given to the occupants for 25 years. Allottees will have to pay a monthly rent of Rs 3,000 that will be increased by 8% periodically.The CHB organised a camp for the registration of the pre-fab colony residents for allotment of rented houses from October 26 to October 29. Officials from the municipal corporation and electricity department were also present during the camp to provide on the spot water and electricity connections.A computerised draw for allotment on a rental basis will be held. After handing over of possession of flats, the shelters will be demolished simultaneously.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-housing-board-to-demolish-200-shelters-in-sector-56/story-ajnAhsn9SH6eHEhZ91BPzN.html
04-11-2020||Chandigarh||9 more deaths, 512 cases recorded in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday recorded nine deaths and 512 fresh coronavirus infections, taking the cumulative Covid count to 96,700 and death toll to 1,511.Officials said 326 people tested positive in Kashmir and 186 in Jammu. Seven people succumbed to the disease in Jammu and two in Kashmir. A total 1,001 people have succumbed to the disease in Kashmir and 510 in Jammu. As many as 326 people had succumbed to the infection in August, 478 in September and 293 in October. The death had toll crossed 500-mark on August 13, 1,000-mark on September 20 and 1,500-mark on November 3.The recovery rate has also been improving for the past month. So far, 89,254 people have recovered from the disease in the UT and the recovery rate has increased to 92.2%. There are 5,935 active cases in the Union Territory.There has also been a decrease in the average number of daily cases. Against an average of 1,245 daily novel coronavirus cases in September, October recorded an average of 632 cases and an average 10 deaths a day were reported in October against 16 in September.The total number of tests conducted in the UT have crossed 23.91 lakh. In Jammu division, the highest number of cases was recorded in Jammu district at 98, followed by 18 in Kishtwar.In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 135 more people tested positive, followed by Baramulla at 67. Srinagar tops the case tally with 19,838 cases and 367 deaths followed by Jammu district with 17,988 cases and 264 deaths.Till date, 6.62 lakh people have been enlisted for observation – 16,249 in home quarantine, 5,935 in isolation, and 43,999 under home surveillance. Besides, 5.95 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/9-more-deaths-512-cases-recorded-in-j-k/story-4TjBPoPedi6rDwQdtSM3CL.html
04-11-2020||Delhi||NGT widens ambit of firecracker pollution cases beyond NCR, notices to 18 states, UTs||The National Green Tribunal Wednesday expanded the ambit of hearing cases on pollution by use of firecrackers beyond the NCR and issued notices to 18 states and Union Territories where air quality is beyond norms.A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel noted that it has already issued notice to Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh and the state governments of Odisha and Rajasthan have already issued a notification prohibiting the sale and use of firecrackers.The green panel sought response from  Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Chandigarh, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Uttarakhand and West Bengal.“Having regard to further developments... the scope of proceedings may need to be extended beyond NCR so as to suggest that in all the concerned States where air quality is not satisfactory may consider taking action on the pattern of action taken by the States of Odisha and Rajasthan,” the bench said.The tribunal said it may have to consider prohibiting the use of firecrackers to protect the health of the vulnerable groups in 122 non-attainment cities where air quality, as per record maintained by the CPCB, is generally beyond permissible limits.“Accordingly, we consider it appropriate to issue a notice to all the States/UTs where the above cities fall, in addition, to notice already issued to the Governments of Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. “Notice need not be issued to the States of Odisha and Rajasthan in view of the notification issued by the said States. To all other States/UTs where the above cities fall, notice may be issued by e-mail to the concerned Chief Secretaries returnable for tomorrow.” the bench said.The NGT on November 2 had issued notice to the ministry of environment and forests (MoEF) and four state governments on whether the use of firecrackers be banned from November 7-30 in the interest of public health and environment.The tribunal was hearing various pleas seeking action against pollution by use of firecrackers during the time air quality is unsatisfactory with the potential of the severity of Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ngt-widens-ambit-of-firecracker-pollution-cases-beyond-ncr-notices-to-18-states-uts/story-oDlOUiCJUM3vBDCd6JTKqO.html
04-11-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers must receive payment for procured crops within 7 days: Khattar to officials||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday directed officials involved in procurement of kharif crops to immediately release pending payments of farmers.“The farmers must receive payment of their procured produce within seven days. Delay in payment on behalf of the procurement agency, ahrtiyas, and bankers will not be tolerated,” Khattar said, while reviewing a meeting of officers engaged in paddy procurement. “The farmer must be paid first. No payment should be left pending before Diwali.” He said matching of “J-Form and I-Form” is an internal matter of the procurement process and they can be matched later. The CM said the validity of tokens issued to the farmers for November 14 should be extended till November 16, 17,18 and there should be no need to issue fresh tokens. He directed the officers to ensure that the generation of ‘H-Form to J-Form, Gate Pass, I-Form’ for paddy procurement, lifting from mandi to warehouse and approval of I-Form should be made online. He said they should ensure the farmer gets the payment for his purchase within one week of the release of the H-Form or within 72 hours of the receipt of the I-Form. Khattar also directed officials to fix responsibility of everyone from secretary of mandi board to commission agents, miller and transporter. He said a chart of the entire process should be prepared mandi-wise, farmer-wise, and ahrtiya-wise and should be uploaded on the website. He said the farmer should be made aware of the day on which his ‘H-Form’ has been released so that he can accordingly come to the mandi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farmers-must-receive-payment-for-procured-crops-within-7-days-khattar-to-officials/story-9MmAXsNBp2o50bdLlJe3MI.html
04-11-2020||City||Haryana agriculture department, HARSAC at loggerheads over farm fire data||The Haryana Space Applications Centre (HARSAC) and the state agriculture department have been divulging contrasting data on the number of farm fire incidents in the state so far this year.Officials of the state agriculture department have claimed that the data on Active Fire Locations (AFLs) provided by HARSAC is misleading. They say most of the AFLs spotted by HARSAC were not found during physical verification. Recently, in a meeting with the chief secretary, the deputy commissioners of various districts had also termed the HARSAC data inappropriate.According to the HARSAC, the state has registered a 40% increase in AFLs this year. However, the state agriculture department claimed that there has been 25% decline in the number of stubble burning incidents.As per the figures provided by HARSAC, the state has reported 6,109 AFLs till November 2 against 4,288 during the same period last year. The area under farm fires has also increased to about 27% with around 33,000 hectares burnt till November 1 as against 26,000 last year.On the other hand, the agriculture department claimed that only 3,225 incidents of stubble burning were reported in the state from October 1 to November 1 as against 4,344 last year. Officials say the farm fire incidents are less as compared to last four years.Jagminder Nain, joint director (agriculture engineering), agriculture department, said “The HARSAC data shows more incidents of stubble burning than the numbers reported by Indian Council for Agriculture Research. This year, farm fires are less as compared to last year as per the data collected by Indian Council for Agriculture Research.”Karam Chand, deputy director, agriculture department, said around 50% of the AFLs shown by HARSAC are not found on the ground. Out of 974 locations given by HARSAC in Kaithal district, 447 incidents were not found during physical verification.He said the variations in data has led to major confusion about AFLs and actual cases of stubble burning. “Also, 91 locations identified by our officers were not shown by HARSAC,” he claimed. HARSAC director VS Arya said, “I have nothing to say if any other department is raising questions over this data.” Earlier, he had said, “The resolution of the satellite is 375×375 meters and an AFL is within this area. The fire could be near or around the captured area. Also, the satellite does not capture small fires like those of cremation or heaps of burning garbage.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-agriculture-department-harsac-at-loggerheads-over-farm-fire-data/story-pkraLYgYEo8PKmuK42O8TI.html
04-11-2020||Chandigarh||Two killed as car crashes into gate inside Jammu tunnel||Two persons were killed and another injured when a car crashed into an emergency exit gate inside the Chenani-Nashri Tunnel along the Jammu-Srinagar National Highway here on Tuesday night. The vehicle was on its way to Ramban from Udhampur district, a police official said.Bittu Sharma, 40, and Sudesh Pandit, 28, of Ramban did not survive the crash while Ganesh Gautam, 20, also of Ramban is undergoing treatment. Police said, “The vehicle crashed into Gate 16 around 9.30 pm. It appears the driver lost control over the vehicle.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-killed-as-car-crashes-into-gate-inside-jammu-tunnel/story-89jZCJlWtJFsNs2fxKqhFI.html
04-11-2020||Chandigarh||Snowfall likely in J&K, Ladakh over next two days||The weatherman on Tuesday predicted light snowfall in higher reaches of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh over the next two days. Director meteorological department Sonam Lotus said, “The weather is likely to remain partly cloudy with the possibility of light snow at isolated places in the higher reaches of the two Union Territories over the next two days,” he said, adding that there was no chance of heavy snowfall over the next 10 days. This year, summer in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) was unusually dry. Meteorologist Mohammad Hussain said, “The year, the weather in J&K was abnormally dry. The western disturbance brought negligible precipitation and rainfall between July and October (monsoon) was 35% below normal.” The Valley mostly owes its precipitation to the western disturbance — winds blowing from the Mediterranean Sea. Hussain attributed the dry weather to global and periodic weather changes: “J&K is still going through a high pressure zone and the new prediction of light snowfall will not affect the dry weather in the plains. The plains in the UTs will remain dry. The situation will remain the same for the next three and four weeks.” The minimum temperature in Srinagar on Tuesday was 1.2°C and 20.6°C. The lowest temperature in Kashmir (-0.7°C) was recorded at Pahalgam, while Ladakh recorded a minimum of -5.9°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/snowfall-likely-in-j-k-ladakh-over-next-two-days/story-SoFeu6ETK6CWEc0Xstf2zL.html
04-11-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal Pradesh resumes bus services to Delhi||Eight months after it suspended its services due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the Himachal Pradesh Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) on Wednesday resumed the bus service to the national capital, Delhi. Inter-state travellers were relieved after the first bus for the day left at 5am. In all, 25 buses will ply on different routes from the state to Delhi daily. “The resumption of bus services to the national capital has come as a relief for passengers, particularly in the festive season,” said Rama Nand Thakur, in-charge of HRTC bus services at the Inter State Bus Terminus in Shimla. Stakeholders in the tourism sector have been demanding the resumption of deluxe coaches to Delhi, including Volvo services, to facilitate tourists with rail and air traffic hit by the pandemic. However, the government is yet to resume luxury bus services. SAFETY GUIDELINES TO BE FOLLOWED STRICTLY HRTC drivers have expressed apprehension about the rise in Covid-19 cases due to the visits to Delhi. “Though the government has issued the standard operating procedures for bus travel, we fear a rise in cases due to the Delhi trips,” says Hriday Sharma, who drove an HRTC bus to Delhi after eight months. The state government resumed bus services on 25 inter-state routes in the first phase on October 15. These include the bus service to Chandigarh, Pathankot, Baddi, Hoshiarpur, Ludhiana, Ambala, and Haridwar. DECISION IN VIEW OF FESTIVE SEASON State transport minister Bikram Singh said that the government has taken this decision in view of the festive season. He said people had been demanding the resumption of inter-state bus services. Himachal Pradesh runs buses on 728 routes across the region, including Jammu, Ladakh, Kashmir, Chandigarh, Haryana, Delhi, Punjab and Rajasthan. The Himachal Pradesh Road Corporation, which has a fleet of 3,719 buses, is already running in loss due to the suspension of services. It earns Rs 54 lakh a day from its bus services and is already reeling under a loss of Rs 1,300 crore. Last year alone, it bore a loss of Rs 154 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-pradesh-resumes-bus-services-to-delhi/story-03yTRuQwdhWt0DZqXWxTxN.html
04-11-2020||City||Uttarakhand forest fire caused by funeral pyre, say residents; probe ordered||The Uttarakhand forest department has ordered an inquiry after residents in Almora complained that a woman’s funeral pyre caused a forest fire that began on Monday and was doused a day later. Residents said the woman had died of Covid-19. Mahatim Yadav, Almora’s divisional forest officer, said a team was rushed to the scene along with the fire department and State Disaster Response personnel on Monday. “Until Monday evening, we failed to douse it completely and resumed the operation on Tuesday. The fire was finally doused completely by Tuesday.”Yadav said they have received complaints that the fire was caused by the funeral pyre. “We have launched an inquiry in it. There was no major loss; only grass and pine needles were burnt.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/uttarakhand-forest-fire-caused-by-funeral-pyre-say-residents-probe-ordered/story-yrxmLrWI0B2Xyys3IqNINP.html
04-11-2020||Pune||Doctor allegedly kidnapped over extortion plaint against former deputy sarpanch||A 28-year-old doctor from Shikrapur was allegedly kidnapped and wrongfully held in a premier hotel in Pune after his complaint led to a case of extortion being registered against a gram panchayat official from Shikrapur.The former deputy sarpanch of Shikrapur village in Pune district was booked by Pune rural police on Monday along with three others for extortion, kidnapping, and wrongful confinement of a doctor with a private hospital in the village.The deputy sarpanch was identified as Rambhau Saswade, a resident of Shikrapur. The three others were identified as Shambhau Saswade, Ganesh Lokhande, and Subhash Sandbhor, according to the police. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Dr Rameshwar Vitthalrao Bandgar, (28), a resident of Mali Mala in Shikrapur and a native of Dhanora area of Umarlhed taluka, Yavatmal. He lodged the complaint on November 2 and on the same day a case was registered for extortion.The complainant submitted to the police that the politician approached him on July 24 and met him on the bridge built across Velu river along Pune-Ahmednagar road.The deputy sarpanch allegedly asked for Rs 25,000 per month from the doctor in exchange of continued operation of his hospital in the village. Saswade allegedly threatened the doctor with false cases by villagers who allegedly are loyal to him, the doctor told the police.“We have arrested all of them today. They will be produced in court tomorrow for police custody,” said assistant police inspector Mayur Vairagkar of Shikrapur police station who is investigating the case.A case under Sections 387 (putting person in fear of death or of grievous hurt, in order to commit extortion), 504 (insult with an intention of provoking breach of peace), and 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Shikrapur police station against the gram panchayat official. Police inspector Sadashiv Shelar of Shikrapur police station is investigating the case.On the night of November 2, when the doctor left his hospital, he was kidnapped by men who took him to the house of the retired gram panchayat official. Rambhar Saswade’s brother Shambahu and another man called Ganesh Lokhande were present in the house.After threatening the doctor for three hours, he was driven to a premier hotel near Pune station and held for the night, according to his complaint. When his captor was asleep, he sneaked a call to the investigation officer of his case, API Vairagkar.Another case under Sections 365 (kidnapping or abducting with intent secretly and wrongfully to confine person), 342 (wrongful confinement), 341, 506 (criminal intimidation), 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Shikrapur police station against the four.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/doctor-allegedly-kidnapped-over-extortion-plaint-against-former-deputy-sarpanch/story-eBhuJmxlqnPLpyfMAWYQUP.html
04-11-2020||Pune||Husband, mother-in-law booked for 22-year-old wife’s suicide||A husband and his mother were booked for driving his 22-year-old wife to die by suicide over money to pay for a Katraj dairy franchisee.The deceased was identified as Asha Sahani, (22), a resident of Khatavkar building in Dangat Patil Estate of Warje Malwadi, Pune. The husband was identified as Karan Sahani (28). A complaint in the matter was lodged by the deceased woman’s 50-year-old mother, a resident of Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh. Most members of the Sahani family are labourers, according to the police.“They had taken the franchise already. The money was brought from her parents. Even after they had paid off for the agency, they wanted more money and kept asking her for it,” said senior police inspector Machindra Pandit of Warje Malwadi police station. The two were married in January 2019. The 50-year-old woman complained that the two used to harass her daughter for money in order to buy a Katraj Dairy franchisee. The two also verbally abused her and physically assaulted her. A case under Sections 498(a) (domestic violence), 306 (abetment to suicide) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Warje Malwadi police station. Police sub-inspector (PSI) SS Kathle will be investigating the case. Pune-based NGO - Connecting - works towards providing support to those in emotional distress using the philosophy of mindfulness based active listening, thereby preventing suicide. Helpline numbers: 1800-209-4353 (toll free) and 9922001122 all days, 12 pm to 8 pm. Walk-in facility: 12 pm to 5 pm, Monday – Saturday. Email: connectingngo@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/husband-mother-in-law-booked-for-22-year-old-wife-s-suicide/story-29Dn5Jz6eZFa8ISwfX0otJ.html
04-11-2020||City||Uttarakhand forms panel to look into problems faced by nomadic Van Gujjars||The Trivendra Singh Rawat-led Uttarakhand government has formed a five-member committee to look into the eviction issues faced by nomadic Van Gujjars in the hill state.The committee has been mandated to look into the issues faced by Van Gujjars, including their eviction and rehabilitation. The panel will submit its report within six months after analysing all these issues and factoring in the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006. Principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF) (wildlife), Uttarakhand; the state chief wildlife warden; field director, Rajaji Tiger Reserve (RTR); a person nominated by the Wildlife Institute of India (WII); and a person nominated by the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) will be the committee members.Also read | Covid-19: Nomadic Van Gujjars fight stigma, face livelihood challengesThe Uttarakhand high court (HC) is hearing a raft of public interest litigations (PILs), which have raised various issues related to Van Gujjars in the state. Himalayan Yuva Gramin Vikas Samiti, Van Adhikar Samiti Dudhala and Think Act Rise Foundation have filed the PILs in the HC.The state government informed the HC about its decision to form the panel and submitted an affidavit to this effect on October 20. A copy of the affidavit, which HT has seen, was made available on Wednesday. The HC in its August 17 order had directed the state government “to come out with a proposal with regard to the constitution of the committee, its scope, the extent to which the inquiry will be done by it and the period within which a report or a solution will be offered by it for the dispute to be resolved”. The HC had maintained that “we are of the view that the legal rights of Van Gujjars, as available in the law, require to be protected. They require not only the protection of the law, but its benefit as well”. Earlier in 2018, the HC had directed the state government to evict Van Gujjars from national parks, reserved forests and protected forest areas in Uttarakhand. Later, Van Gujjars had moved the Supreme Court (SC), and obtained a stay order from the apex court.Van Gujjars had argued that they cannot be evicted from the forest areas in Uttarakhand and cited Section 3 (1) d of The Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006, as the legal protection guaranteed by the Union government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/uttarakhand-forms-panel-to-look-into-problems-faced-by-nomadic-van-gujjars/story-mTCf34d14Lji05hj853VNM.html
04-11-2020||Pune||35,000 seats to remain vacant under RTE this year||Due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, academia has taken a hit in Maharashtra. A total of 35,000 seats of the Right to Education (RTE) have remained vacant in the state this year. Until now 79,580 students have confirmed their admissions of the total 1,00,926 seats selected for RTE admissions for the academic year 2020-21. The state primary education department has now given a one-week extension for waiting list students to complete the admission process, as most of the parents couldn’t complete their admission process. “The first lottery of RTE admissions was announced on March 17, the admission process of students selected in this lottery was going on until September 27. After which from September 30 to October 29, the admission process of students in the waiting list was done. However, more than 35,000 seats remained vacant under the RTE, so it was decided to extend the waiting list students’ admission process by one more week,” said Dinkar Patil, state primary education department director. This year due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the RTE admission process was delayed. In 9,331 RTE registered schools in the state for this year, a total of 1, 15,460 RTE vacancies existed. Of the 2, 91,368 applications, 1,00,926 students were selected. Whereas in Pune district in 972 RTE registered schools for the year, there were 16,949 RTE vacancies. There were 62,919 applications, and16,617 students were selected and as of today 11,146 students have confirmed the admission. Due to various reasons and issues parents were not able to complete the admission process under RTE. “The admission of my daughter was completed in the waiting list of the RTE, but we had to wait until October for it. The school which we got the admission and its staff didn’t cooperate with parents and called us several times demanding for various documents.” said Shweta Jagdale, a parent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/35-000-seats-to-remain-vacant-under-rte-this-year/story-KdSbkyq8aBSH32gjGjDcGN.html
04-11-2020||Mumbai||‘BJP complaining as if...’: Shiv Sena on journalist Arnab Goswami’s arrest||Maharashtra minister and Shiv Sena spokesperson Anil Parab on Wednesday slammed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over its protests against the arrest of Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami earlier in the day. Parab said the arrest of the journalist is in no way an attack on the freedom of press and questioned if Goswami was a BJP worker.Goswami was arrested in Mumbai by Raigad police for allegedly abetting the suicide of 53-year-old interior designer Anvay Naik in 2018. Parab said that Naik’s widow had moved court seeking reinvestigation, and the police arrested Goswami after the court order.“This case is not connected to the freedom of press in any manner. BJP workers and leaders are complaining as if Arnab Goswami is their functionary and he was falsely arrested. He has been arrested in the case for further investigation. Where does the question of freedom of press or arise in this? Parab asked.Parab said that Naik had named Arnab Goswami and two others in his suicide note, alleging that they had not paid his fees, forcing him to end his life.“The investigation on this suicide was not done at that time. Anvay Naik’s wife moved court and it granted permission to police to investigate the case. He added, “I reiterate that there is no vindictive action or attack on freedom of press from the government. The investigation in the cases has restarted after a court order.”Also read | ‘No one is above the law’: Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Arnab Goswami’s arrestSlamming its former ally, the Sena minister said, “The question here is why is BJP shielding Arnab Goswami. A Marathi woman lost her husband... The BJP is shielding a man because of whom the woman has lost her husband and is giving it an angle of Emergency and attack on freedom of the press. If a man is arrested in connection to a case, does it mean the state is going towards Emergency?” He asked why there was no hue and cry over the arrest of the other two accused in the case. “Does it mean that BJP wants to save a person because of whom a man was allegedly driven to suicide?”The Sena leader went on to call Goswami a “parrot” of BJP, who could squeal on those at whose behest the case was suppressed in the previous government. “BJP’s parrot has been arrested and put in the cage today. I think it will have to be investigated whether BJP’s life is in this parrot,” he said.Parab added that the state government would inquire why the case was not investigated properly when it came to light. He added, “Strict action will be taken against those police officers who are found to be guilty to suppress the case. The government will inquire in this matter,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/arnab-goswami-arrest-not-freedom-of-press-issue-why-s-bjp-complaining-asks-sena/story-EKG1YlJcHwI3qKTsvr1bDL.html
04-11-2020||Pune||IISER reports one dengue casualty, Pune civic body says no death reported this season||The Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) on October 30 reported the death of a 27-year-old PhD student from the institute due to dengue. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has no record of such a death. The deceased, Kshetrimayum Borish, hailed from Kakching, Manipur. The institute’s statement reads, “Borish had approached the clinic on campus on Monday (October 26) and was advised of tests. In the meantime, the doctor was monitoring his condition. The test results showed low platelet counts, suggesting dengue, and prompted the clinic to admit him to a hospital on Wednesday (October 28). Sadly, Borish passed away in the hospital on Friday (October 30). He has tested positive for confirmed dengue and negative for Covid-19. This is a shocking loss to the IISER community, including Borish’s friends and colleagues and especially to his family back in Manipur. The IISER Pune community is doing a voluntary fund-raising from faculty and others to support the family in this time of grief.” Dr Sanjeev Wavare, head, PMC insect control department, said, “We have no report of this death as of yet. In fact, we have not reported any deaths due to dengue, swine flu, chikungunya or even malaria this season.” As per the PMC data, from January 2020 till November 1, the city has recorded 1,576 suspected dengue cases and 75 confirmed cases and no deaths. The data also claims 28 suspected cases of chikungunya this year and two cases of malaria. PMC staff has been working hard to control the Covid situation in the city, which has reported maximum cases in the country. The civic body has not recorded any serious case of monsoon ailments, namely dengue, malaria, chikungunya and swine flu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/iiser-reports-one-dengue-casualty-pune-civic-body-says-no-death-reported-this-season/story-Bs1ageuEkV3AkFXV53cFKN.html
04-11-2020||Pune||Survey reveals presence of Covid antibodies in 33.9% of PCMC population||A population-based SARS-CoV-2 IgG antibody survey conducted by Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has found the overall antibody seropositivity rate is 33.9%. The study was conducted by the community medicine department of DY Patil Medical College and medical department of PCMC. The survey was carried out from October 7-17. PCMC was divided in 200 clusters of which 25 random samples from each cluster were taken. Hence, a total of 5,000 samples were collected. The survey found that presence of SARS-CoV-2 IgG antibodies in women (33.8%) is more than men (28.9%). “We can say that of 25 lakh population of PCMC, approximately 8.5 lakh have presence of antibodies against Covid. We are seeing a downward curve, but we cannot relax as Diwali is a bigger festival than Navratri so all norms need to be followed by the people,” said Shravan Hardikar, PCMC commissioner. The administration has asked residents to strictly follow hygiene norms as the winter season is approaching and there are threats of other diseases. “Lowering the guard is not an option looking at world statistics where the second wave of Covid is currently on. We need to keep a strict check on other respiratory infections as well which will be on the rise in winter. Special watch should be kept on fever OPDs. If number of cases of respiratory diseases increases then it should be informed to the administration,” said Dr Subhash Salunke, Covid technical committee advisor. “While the survey conducted in Pune covered specific localities, samples from across all areas in PCMC were taken,” Hardikar said. Dr Vijay Natarajan, chief executive officer at Symbiosis hospital, said, “The recorded antibody seropositivity rate is good, but it is not enough to say that we have established herd immunity and there is nothing to worry. All precautions need to be in place. Around 60-70 per cent seropositivity in a population will establish herd immunity.” “It is a very small sample and is scattered all over PCMC. The case could have been more interesting if it was done in a more focussed area and findings have been made,” Natarajan said. Dr Sanjeev Bagai, senior consultant paediatrician, nephrologist and Padma Shree Presidential Awardee tweeted, “Miniature sample size makes a statistical significant value irrelevant. These are called “biased & convenient” sampling. Any sero survey must include all categories of age, comorbidities, POS timelines, non-hot zones.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/survey-reveals-presence-of-covid-antibodies-in-33-9-of-pcmc-population/story-jvCiRZUCpQxcK6uVy887AI.html
04-11-2020||City||Baghjan blowout: Oil India Limited operated well without mandatory clearances, says NGT panel||The Oil India Limited (OIL) was operating the natural gas well at Assam’s Baghjan without required permissions when the uncontrolled escape of oil and gas, or blowout, began there in May, a National Green Tribunal (NGT) panel has said. The panel has recommended legal action against the public sector company and its officials over the violations that led to the blowout. The well later caught fire in June that continues to rage five months on and has claimed three lives and destroyed nearby houses.The panel led by retired Gauhati High Court judge Brojendra Prasad Katakey cited the violations and has made the recommendation in its progress report filed to NGT on Tuesday. It said despite Supreme Court orders, OIL did not carry out a biodiversity impact assessment study for the Baghjan well as it is located near the Dibru Saikhowa National Park and biosphere reserve, which is home to 36 mammal species including tiger, endangered Gangetic dolphins, feral horses, and 382 bird species.The panel said the OIL had also not taken environmental clearance from the Centre before starting drilling operations at Baghjan from November 2006.It has recommended that directions be issued to Assam’s Pollution Control Board for the action against OIL and its officials.Also read | Another 8 weeks needed to bring Baghjan gas well under control, says OILThe panel noted statutory obligations mandate all onshore oil and gas drilling projects to obtain consent under the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, and authorisation under Hazardous Waste (Management & Handling) Rules, and Hazardous and Other Wastes (Management & Transboundary Movement) Rules.“OIL had never procured and/or received any Consent to Establish [CTE]/NOC [no objection certificate] and/or Consent to Operate [CTO] under the aforesaid Acts and Rules the manner prescribed for drilling operation of Well Baghjan-5 in 2006,” the report said. HT is in possession of a copy of the report.The panel found that the OIL had the mandatory consent under the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act only for 2008-09, 2012-13 and 2018-19. It cited records and said the Pollution Control Board issued no consent for 2006-07, 2009-10, 2010-11, 2011-12, 2013-14, 2014-15, 2015-16, 2016-17, 2017-18 and 2019-20.“It was therefore inferred prima facie that on the day of [the] blowout of Well Baghjan-5 on May 27 and explosion on June 9, OIL didn’t have the mandatory consents including the CTE/NOC and/or the CTO under the Water Act, Air Act and/or the Hazardous Waste (Management, Handling and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016,” the report said.The report said the ambient noise levels near the well since the blowout is above the permissible standard. It directed OIL to bring the levels down and ensure treatment of people suffering due to the heightened noise. The panel has recommended Rs 25 lakh compensation to 173 families affected by the blowout and the fire. It has sought Rs 20 lakh to 439 less-affected families.The panel was set up after Bonani Kakkar, a Kolkata-based activist, and the Wildlife and Environment Conservation Organisation, an Assam-based NGO, filed separate applications before NGT seeking a probe into the cause and impact of the blowout and the fire. It will submit its final report next month.A team from Canada arrived at the site on Tuesday to attempt to put out the blaze. After initial attempts by teams from ONGC and OIL to control the blowout and fire, a team from Singapore-based Alert Disaster Control was brought in to plug the blowout and douse the fire. The team managed to replace the blow out preventer (BOP) on the well head, but efforts to contain the fire by injecting a ‘killing fluid’ failed. The team was able to divert the gas to a ‘flare pit’ nearby but the fire still continues. The Alert Disaster Control team left in October after OIL decided to bring a team from Canada and douse the fire by a technique called snubbing. “These are interim reports submitted from time to time by the committee to NGT. The final report is yet to be submitted. Once the final report is submitted by the committee, NGT would then issue directives to OIL. We would respond only when such directives are issued,” said Tridiv Hazarika, spokesperson, OIL. The Pollution Control Board and Assam officials didn’t respond to calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/baghjan-blowout-oil-india-limited-operated-well-without-mandatory-clearances-says-ngt/story-ajD4sTJbBCJ61AtLjcHeeI.html
04-11-2020||Pune||With drop in cases, Pune administration plans to give up requisition of pvt hospital beds||Six months after the state issued an order to take control of about 80% of beds in private hospitals for Covid-19 treatment, the Pune administration has decided to give up the requisition given that the number of cases has been going down. The administration after a meeting with private hospitals has decided to give them the choice to step down voluntarily only on the pre-condition that beds could be taken over again if the situation demands. During a press meet on Tuesday, divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said, “We have asked private hospitals to come up with a plan wherein we can give up the requisition in phases as per the criteria. The hospitals will send a plan by tomorrow and we will see whatever is possible. We will ensure that we have enough beds for at least 8,000 patients as per the guidelines given by the Centre, for all the categories, including home isolation and even for critical patients.“ We have enough beds for 8,000 patients if we put together both the jumbo facilities, Naidu and 25% of both Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial (YCM) and Sassoon General hospitals. However, we will need a backup of ventilators and ICU beds for which we will consult with private hospitals,” he said.He said that as of now no ratio has been decided on reserving beds and that hospitals have been given the option of “step-down” programme in a phasewise manner. However, in some cases, hospitals will be allowed to be absolved of the requisition completely in case of super specialities dedicated to one speciality like heart, orthopaedics and ophthalmology, and hospitals with less than 40 beds will be allowed to not accept any new admission. These hospitals will be de-notified with the pre-condition that if required the administration will take over the required beds.With cases going down, PMC has shut down 18 Covid care centres out of the 23 which were started initially and only five are operational now. PCMC has only one CCC running. Rao said that they are closed temporarily and could be started on 72-hour notice. Criteria to give up requisition of bedsNon-oxygenated beds at private hospitals. Around 1,800 beds will be released. The price regulation on requisitioned beds for the treatment of Covid will continue if any of the beds are retained. The administration hopes to retain the required number of ventilators and ICUs as a backup plan in some private hospitalsThese beds can be taken over again if the positivity rate, which is currently around 8.9% for the district, goes above 20%. Sassoon staff and jumbo facility contract extended Although the number of Covid cases is coming down steadily, as preparation for a possible second wave of the infection the administration has decided to extend the contract for doctors and medical staff hired in June and whose six-month contract will end on November 15 by another six months. Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said, “We have extended the contract of the staff because if we do see a second wave like what is being reported in western countries then we do not want to go hunting for staff at the last minute. Also, in case of the jumbo facility too we have decided to keep it running till February 2021 for now after consulting the operator, but we will bring down the number of beds from current 600 to 400 for both the jumbo facilities, COEP and Magar ground facility to avoid unnecessary costs.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/with-drop-in-cases-pune-administration-plans-to-give-up-requisition-of-pvt-hospital-beds/story-RwFLsILtu5uOQwB35SPOSN.html
04-11-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Woman shot in the head by suspected carjackers; in critical condition||A woman executive (26) sustained critical injuries after she was shot at by three unidentified youth at Sector 65 in Gurugram near the southern peripheral road (SPR) on Tuesday night while she was out with a friend on a drive, police said. Police suspect that the assailants fired at them after a failed attempt to rob their car. The victim is undergoing treatment in a private hospital in Sector 38 and her condition is stated to be critical. The injured, Pooja Sharma, belongs to Jharkhand and lives in a rented accommodation in Sector 40. She works for a multinational company in Gurugram. Her friend, Sagar Manchanda, a resident of Roorkee in Uttarakhand, lives in a rented apartment in Sector 67. The incident took place at around 11pm, when the friends were out for a drive in the millennium city, and Sharma wanted to be at the wheel. Also read | No conclusive evidence in case against hospital staff in rape case, cops plan to quash FIRPreet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (ACP) (crime), Gurugram Police, said that Sharma started driving the vehicle in Sector 67 and was cruising on the Golf Course Extension Road, when three men on a motorbike waylaid them and asked to roll down the window panes. “Manchanda said they were driving on the road towards Kherki Daula via SPR, when they saw three men on a motorbike. Initially, they ignored the trio, but later they intercepted the car and asked to roll down the window panes. The friends got scared and tried to flee from the spot, but one of the suspects whipped out a pistol and fired two rounds at them. A bullet hit Sharma’s head, but Manchanda escaped unhurt,” he said. A case under section 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Arms Act, 1959, was registered at Sector 65 police station against unidentified men on the basis of Manchanda’s complaint. A probe is in progress.Police are scanning closed circuit TV footage from different locations in Gurugram to identify the suspects. Sangwan said they are probing all the details and also looking at an angle of old enmity. “The exact reason will be ascertained after the suspects are arrested,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-woman-shot-in-the-head-by-suspected-carjackers-in-critical-condition/story-apsruqWBPDFr2n3OhAHFqK.html
04-11-2020||City||Madhya Pradesh: Cracker blast blows up house in Morena; three killed, 2 injured||A couple and their one-year-old son were killed while two other children sustained serious injuries in an explosion allegedly because of firecrackers which blew up their house in Morena district, 465 km north of Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh, on Wednesday morning, said police. The deceased were identified as Jigni village residents Bunty Khan, 30, Ruby Khan, 27, and one-year-old Aman. Two other kids ,Hussain and Ali, were rushed to a district hospital from where they were referred to Gajra Raja Medical College, Gwalior, in a serious condition, said police. “Police are investigating the matter as an explosive used in making crackers was found in large quantity at the spot. Villagers informed the police that Bunty used to illegally manufacture crackers at home. Bunty’s family, that lives close by, claimed that the blast occurred due to an LPG cylinder,” said Morena superintendent of police Anurag Sujaniya. He said, “The explosion blew up the house of Bunty Khan at around 6 am on Wednesday. The villagers informed the police. Police and fire brigade team reached the spot and held a rescue operation. In all, five people were rescued from the debris. They were rushed to a district hospital where Bunty, Ruby and Aman were declared brought dead.” A team of forensic experts reached the spot to know the exact reason behind the blast, said the police officer. A few years ago, two members of Bunty’s family had died in a similar kind of explosion, said the police. However, the deceased’s brother Usmaan Khan said, “After the death of two members of the family a few years ago, we had discontinued the making crackers, so something else must have caused the blast. Bunty was a street vendor.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/madhya-pradesh-cracker-blast-blows-up-house-in-morena-three-killed-2-injured/story-syOmPygcuGOwEnAEorx6sJ.html
04-11-2020||Chandigarh||Abhay Chautala submits private member’s Bill to Haryana Speaker on MSP guarantee for farmers||Former leader of opposition in the Haryana assembly and INLD leader Abhay Singh Chautala has submitted three private member’s Bills to Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, seeking guarantee that farmers’ produce will not be sold or bought below the minimum support price (MSP). The truncated monsoon assembly session resumes on Thursday. The Bills have been referred to the agriculture and food and supplies department to explain the government’s viewpoint on the issues mentioned in the Bills. The private member’s Bill submitted by Chautala is on the lines of Bills passed by the Punjab assembly recently. Meanwhile, the Dabwali Congress MLA Amit Sihag has signed a memorandum in his blood to protest the enactment of three agricultural marketing laws by the Centre. The memorandum is addressed to President Ram Nath Kovind.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/abhay-chautala-submits-private-member-s-bill-to-haryana-speaker-on-msp-guarantee-for-farmers/story-6R03ftpmuWYl95EHu4y8LM.html
04-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi reporting third Covid-19 wave, says CM Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said that the national capital is reporting a “third wave” of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. The CM said that the Delhi government would move the Supreme Court (SC) later on Wednesday to vacate the stay imposed by the Delhi high court (HC) on the city administration’s order of reserving 80% of the intensive care unit (ICU) beds for Covid-19 patients in 33 private hospitals. The declaration is significant, as the Delhi government had earlier maintained that it would wait for a week to decide whether a third wave has hit the national capital. The CM’s statement came after Delhi reported 6,725 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday and the overall tally went past 400,000.Also read| 3rd wave of Covid-19 in Delhi? Yes, says Satyendar Jain as Capital records 6.7K fresh casesKejriwal said he would hold a meeting to review Covid-19 management on Thursday.“I want to inform the public that Delhi is reporting a surge in Covid-19 cases over the past few days. I would call this a third wave of the pandemic in the city because in the end of September and the beginning of October, daily Covid-19 cases had started to drop below 3,000,” Kejriwal told media persons at Hiranki village, where he visited to check the effectiveness of the bio-decomposing process of converting stubble into manure. The CM also urged the public not to panic and assured that he is closely monitoring the situation. “At present, there is no scarcity of Covid-19 beds in Delhi. There is no scarcity of any form of health infrastructure in the national capital. It has come to our notice that in big private hospitals, only a few ICU beds with ventilators are lying vacant. The issue will be resolved in a day or two once the SC vacates the stay by the HC,” Kejriwal said.The Delhi government would take a call on Thursday whether firecrackers would be allowed this Diwali, he added. Diwali will be celebrated on November 14.“The meeting will discuss a gamut of issues such as allowing firecrackers to availability of Covid-19 beds, especially those in ICUs.The meeting is scheduled to be held at 4 pm,” Kejriwal said.Delhi’s positivity rate on Tuesday stood at 11.29% as fears abound that SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19, is spreading at an unprecedented rate amid the festive season and growing pollution due to stubble burning in neighbouring agrarian states such as Haryana and Punjab and parts of western Uttar Pradesh (UP) . Typically, a rising positivity rate suggests an inadequate number of tests.The Delhi government’s bulletin on Tuesday stated that of the 59,540 swab samples tested in the past 24 hours, 13,560 were reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests, which was the lowest RT-PCR sample size in the past three weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-delhi-reporting-third-wave-says-cm-kejriwal/story-mh1NnI6XTyqawv9A8iIMPO.html
04-11-2020||Delhi||3rd wave of Covid-19 in Delhi? Yes, says Satyendar Jain as Capital records 6.7K fresh cases||The steep rise in cases of coronavirus (Covid-19) disease in Delhi can be considered a “third wave”, health minister Satyendar Jain said on Wednesday. However, the spike could also be attributed to aggressive contact tracing and ramped up testing, he added.“About 6,800 beds are occupied in Delhi due to Covid-19 while 9,000 are available. We can call this the third wave of Covid-19 cases here but we have focused on aggressive testing in the last 15 days so the spike can be attributed to that too,” Jain said.Pointing out that the main issue was the availability of ICU beds, he said that the state government will approach the Supreme Court over the Delhi High Court’s order to stay its decision on reserving ISCE beds in private hospitals.On September 22, the SC stayed an order of the Delhi government reserving 80% of the ICU beds for Covid-19 patients, saying that prima facie, the order appeared to be “arbitrary”, “unreasonable” and in violation of the fundamental rights of an individual.“We’re going to the Supreme Court to address the High Court overturn of our mandate to reserve 80 per cent beds as ICU beds in private hospitals because the main issue is that of the availability of ICU beds,” Jain said. Jain, however, reassured people that the treatment protocols in both government and private hospitals were the same. On Tuesday, the national Capital again set a record for the highest Covid-19 cases reported in a single day with 6,725 new infections taking the total tally past 400,000. (with ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/3rd-wave-of-covid-19-in-delhi-yes-says-satyendar-jain/story-jRtVoD2FCinUJMdZlkGVEL.html
04-11-2020||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai: Missing trekker found dead in ravine, police suspect accident||The body of a 22-year-old photographer and trekker from Navi Mumbai , who went missing after he left home for a trek to Prabalgad Fort in Raigad, was found in a ravine in Panvel on Tuesday. The Panvel police have now filed an accidental death report.Investigating officials said it appears to be a trekking accident. A resident of New Panvel, Anurag Gudile was a regular trekker and was also into wildlife and nature photography.Police will now record statements of his friends with whom Gudile said he was going for a trek.“Gudile had left from his house on Saturday, informing his parents about his trek to Prabalgad. When his parents were unable to contact him for over a day, they approached the Khandeshwar police. We then joined in a search operation to find him,” said an officer from Panvel rural police, requesting not to be named.With the help of technical analysis and mobile tower location, police managed to triangulate Gudile’s location. The search party then found his body in a ravine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-missing-trekker-found-dead-in-ravine-police-suspect-accident/story-2beHkWWqEkpDqylC3qTLEI.html
04-11-2020||City||J&K: 2 killed in car crash inside Chenani-Nashri tunnel||Two persons were killed and another injured in a car accident inside Chenani-Nashri Tunnel late Tuesday. The car, which was on its way to Ramban from Udhampur, crashed into gate number 16, killing two occupants while injuring another around 9.30pm,” said a police officer. Also read | 10,000 girls to benefit from ‘Girls4Tech’ programme in JammuThe deceased have been identified as Bittu Sharma, 40, son of Hans Raj of Kriya Maitra in Ramban, and Sudesh Pandit, 28, son of Kaka Ram of Sana Batote. Twenty-year-old Ganesh Gautam, son of Suram Chand of Kriya Maitra, was injured in the accident.“We are investigating the mishap. Prima facie, it appears that the driver lost control over the wheel,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-2-killed-in-car-crash-inside-chenani-nashri-tunnel/story-mnAtLxtywR8tx0cD9rjpkM.html
04-11-2020||City||Chhattisgarh Police complete probe, submit charge sheet in minor girl’s rape case in 4 days||The Chhattisgarh police on Wednesday said that they have completed their probe into a 15-year-old girl’s alleged rape in Raigarh district and submitted a charge sheet four days after the assault was reported on October 30. One Guddu Paswan, 21, was arrested and booked for rape on the basis of the girl’s statement.Also read | Woman gang-raped in Delhi hospital, 3 held“After the arrest of the accused, we started investigating the case and within four days Punjipathara police submitted the charge sheet before a local court,” said police superintendent Santosh Kumar Singh. He said they have asked investigating officers to arrest the accused and file charge sheets after proper investigation as soon as possible in such cases. “...within a week, if possible, in all such cases.” Singh said they try to get the accused punished after speedy trials. “...police [are] trying to get victims’ compensations as soon as possible.”In September, the Raigarh police submitted a charge sheet in a separate case involving a minor within five days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chhattisgarh-police-complete-probe-submit-charge-sheet-in-minor-girl-s-rape-case-in-4-days/story-ehv7ud9nqQFXqzUfrJYRKL.html
04-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: BMC fails to pay up 90% funds needed for marine biodiversity conservation||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), which is building a road along Mumbai’s coast, has failed to deposit 90% of funds required for the conservation of coastal and marine biodiversity as per specific conditions imposed under the Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) clearance issued for the project.Maharashtra’s Mangrove Cell has highlighted the non-compliance in a letter to Manisha Mhaiskar, principal secretary, environment. HT has seen a copy of the letter.“We have received this letter and will be questioning BMC about their compliance with the CRZ conditions,” said Mhaiskar.Also read | Comply with 6 conditions to move corals for Coastal Road: MoEFCC tells BMCThe civic body had to pay 2% (Rs254 crore) of the total cost of the project (Rs12,721 crore) to the Mangrove Foundation (an autonomous society that assists the state government in marine conservation) on or before the commencement of work on the road in December 2018, according to the clearance given for the project in May 2017. The 9.9-km long road aims to connect the Princess Street Flyover in south Mumbai to the Worli end of the Bandra-Worli Sea Link and cut short travel time between south Mumbai and western suburbs by 70%.“It is brought to your kind consideration that the project proponent [BMC] is yet to deposit Rs227.42 crore to the Mangrove Foundation which is a breach of the specific condition 12 of the clearance given to the project. Moreover, BMC has already approached the Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority [MCZMA under the environment department] for the clearance of additional reclamation works to be carried out for the coastal road project,” read the letter by Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest (Mangrove Cell). Tiwari requested the environment department to ensure that conditions under CRZ clearance are complied with before considering fresh amendments proposed by BMC.According to the letter, BMC partly complied with the order by depositing Rs25 crore with the Mangrove Foundation in June 2019. “Rs25 crore has been added to the Mangrove Foundation’s corpus and kept in fixed deposits as per the Foundation’s mandate. The interest earned thereon is utilized for improving coastal and marine biodiversity of Mumbai and Thane region and to build awareness among citizens...,” the letter said.Vijay Nighot, chief engineer (Coastal Road), BMC refused to comment on the matter. A BMC official, requesting anonymity, said, “We are yet to be given a breakup of how Rs25 crore has already been utilized. Once we have that and a roadmap of how remaining funds would be used, the transactions will be made.”“The funds will be used to study, document and conserve marine biodiversity in Mumbai, Thane, and surrounding coastal regions,” said MK Rao, acting principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife). “However, only part payment has been made so far. We hope with the intervention of the environment department, BMC will comply with the condition imposed upon them under the CRZ norms.”Environmentalists said the issue was first raised by the Mangrove Cell last week when BMC had approached MCZMA for additional reclamation for the project. “During the hearing, Mhasikar, as chairman, clearly told BMC that the funds had to be paid as per the CRZ mandate and the Mangrove Cell cannot be asked for utilisation certificate,” said Debi Goenka, executive trustee, Conservation Action Trust, one of the petitioners opposing the project.Environmentalist Stalin D said seeking fund utilisation details was not a mandate under CRZ norms and BMC must unconditionally comply. “It is unfortunate to see BMC behave in an arrogant and insensitive manner. They are obligated under the law to deposit 2% of the project cost, which is a reserve fund for marine conservation. The law cannot be different for different project proponents,” he said.Goenka pointed out that it was money changing hands between two government departments. “This is blood money as funds are being demanded as a pound of flesh to protect the environment (by Mangrove Foundation) when an ecologically damaging project such as this is being allowed to destroy Mumbai’s coast,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-bmc-fails-to-pay-up-90-funds-needed-for-marine-biodiversity-conservation/story-mRhtqEWIJISW0TWEpvGErJ.html
04-11-2020||Mumbai||Comply with 6 conditions to move corals for Coastal Road: MoEFCC tells BMC||The Union environment ministry has listed six conditions for Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to comply with while giving it the final go-ahead for translocating two coral patches along the coastal road alignment. The conditions include the translocation must be carried out in presence of the forest department officials, and an expert from the Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun, or any marine expert from a national institute. The ministry has asked BMC to ensure adequate protection to the corals and to submit a completion report post translocation and periodic reports on the status of corals after translocation. HT has seen a copy of the permission document issued on October 28.The Maharashtra forest department has also added a few conditions while issuing its permit. They pertain to a time frame of October 29 to December 31 to complete the translocation.Corals are protected marine species sporadically spread across rocky intertidal regions along the Mumbai coast. They have the same protection as the tiger or elephant under the Wildlife Protection Act. Permissions are needed from the principal chief conservator of the forest before the translocation of the species.Also read | New plant species discovered in northern Western Ghats“Though a small patch of corals has come in the alignment, their protection is important as schedule I species under the Wildlife Protection Act. Thus, we had to seek permission. They will be shifted to other suitable sites. We need the road but we also need to ensure proper wildlife conservation,” said MK Rao, principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife).On September 3, BMC applied for wildlife clearance and submitted a proposal to move 18 coral colonies across Worli and Haji Ali for further reclamation of the project. According to BMC’s proposal, the National Institute of Oceanography (NIO), Goa, had identified the corals. “The translocation is to be undertaken by NIO scientists and all conditions highlighted by the Centre will be complied with,” said a BMC official.Since March, BMC has reclaimed over 52 hectares of the sea for the 9.9-km Rs 14,000-crore eight-lane highway.EV Muley, a former national coordinator for UN’s Global Coral Reef Monitoring Network, said there have been no solid conservation efforts to protect corals over the past decade. “There is no large-scale proof of the success of translocation or restoration of coral patches by any national institute. Even if translocation has been done, no follow-up studies have been conducted.”Environmentalists called uprooting corals and relocating them intricate operation like open-heart surgery. “Corals are delicate ecosystems that are highly sensitive to even small changes. Instead of conserving the remaining fragments of this biodiversity, this so-called development project is decimating it. The environmental destruction caused by the coastal road was always avoidable. Lack of political will and the financial greed is at the root of all the issues,” said Stalin D, director, Vanashakti, an NGO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/comply-with-6-conditions-to-move-corals-for-coastal-road-moefcc-tells-bmc/story-qvRuyS7ueAlddzEFkO7zII.html
04-11-2020||Mumbai||Abetment to suicide case: Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami arrested||Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami was on Wednesday arrested from Mumbai for alleged abetment to 53-year-old interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother Kumud Naik’s suicide in 2018.Goswami was being taken to Alibag near Mumbai in Maharashtra’s Raigad district, where he was expected to be produced before a local court later in the day.Inspector general of police (Konkan range) Sanjay Mohite confirmed that Raigad police have arrested Goswami but refused to give further details.Anvay Naik and Kumud Naik were found dead at their farmhouse in Alibag in May 2018. Anvay Naik’s widow, Akshata, registered a case after a note was found in which the two alleged that they were forced to end their lives because of unpaid dues amounting to Rs 5.40 crore by Goswami’s Republic TV and two others, Feroz Shaikh and Nitesh Sarda.Also read | Republic TV owners named as accused in TRP caseMaharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh announced a fresh investigation into the case in May 2020 after Anvay Naik’s daughter, Adnya, approached him alleging the Alibag police have not investigated it properly. The local police earlier closed the abetment case, saying there was not enough evidence against the accused.Republic TV has denied the allegations and maintained the company had cleared all payments due to Anvay Naik’s Concord Designs.Congress leader Sachin Sawant called Goswami’s arrest a tribute to Anway Naik. “Anway Naik and his mother were compelled to commit suicide after Arnab’s channel failed to pay his dues worth Rs 80 lakh. The [previous Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Devendra] Fadnavis government failed to investigate the case and do justice to the family.” He claimed there was a lot of political pressure on the then Fadnavis government to hush up the case for obvious reasons. “The [Narendra] Modi government [at the Centre] was protecting Arnab just because his channel was taking their agenda forward. Instead of condemning the action against the culprit, the BJP should feel ashamed for their failure to accord justice to the Naik family.” Sawant added they welcome the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government’s action in the case.Congress is a part of the MVA government.Fadnavis called the arrest an attempt to suppress an anti-government voice. “Emergency came to an end in 1977 but the tendency of imposing it still persists. After Shiv Sena, which stood by the Emergency and Congress, the party which imposed it joined hands in the state, the tendency has surfaced. Such attempts to suppressing the voice against the government are detrimental to democracy. The country has always stood against such attempts,” Fadnavis tweeted in Marathi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/abetment-to-suicide-case-republic-tv-editor-in-chief-arnab-goswami-arrested/story-yn5TzjLjqPnpYeD8GaMq3M.html
04-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Five held for betting on IPL match||Three property dealers and two persons who dealt in used cars, whose businesses were hit hard because of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, were arrested for allegedly operating a betting racket related to the ongoing Indian Premier League (IPL) matches in the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Delhi Police said. Delhi Police busted the betting racket, which was run from a house at Sector-5 in Rohini, on Monday night. Pramod Kumar Mishra, deputy commissioner of police (DCP) (Rohini), Delhi Police, said 10 mobile phones, a light-emitting diode (LED) TV, a laptop, and eight diaries that were being used for running the betting racket were seized from the five arrested accused.“The five arrested accused were betting on the IPL match being played between Delhi Capitals and Royal Challengers Bangalore on Monday evening. The TV set was being used to watch live telecasts of the match while records of runs, overs, wickets and other betting details were being maintained in the laptop and the diaries. The cell phones were also being used for betting,” said DCP Mishra. Also read | The raid was conducted after a sub-inspector (S-I) of the Budh Vihar police station received a tip-off about the betting racket being operated at Sector 5 in Rohini.The arrested accused have been identified as Amarjeet Singh (42), Ravinder Kumar (40), Dharamvir (38), Pawan Dahiya (46) and Akashdeep (36). Dharamvir and Dahiya are used car dealers and the rest are into real estate business. “The arrested accused confessed to their involvement in running the betting racket after their businesses were hit hard because of the raging Covid-19 pandemic. Singh was the kingpin of the racket and he lured the rest to join the illegal business to make a fast buck in a bid to tide over their financial woes,” the DCP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-five-held-for-betting-on-ipl-match/story-caauslsloLLgP4pV5yejAI.html
04-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi AQI improves to 280, stops in poor category||Air quality in Delhi improved and stopped at the poor category on Wednesday morning. According to data shared by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the Air Quality Index (AQI) stood at 280 as per the 7am bulletin.An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe. On Tuesday, the overall air quality index of Delhi was 302, in the ‘very poor’ category after going through a marginal deterioration from Monday when the city’s AQI had improved to ‘poor’ category, at 293.Even though farm fires continued raging in Punjab and Haryana, with more than 3,000 cases reported on Tuesday again, a change in the wind direction helped keep the share of stubble fumes on the city’s pollution under check.Scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said though the city choked, high wind speed helped keep the situation from deteriorating.Also read | ‘Poor’ air quality in Mumbai after 8 months, stagnant winds to blameVK Soni, head of IMD’s environment monitoring research centre, said that the AQI levels are likely to remain in the early end of ‘very poor’ category till November 5, after which there could be a marginal deterioration again.Union ministry of earth sciences’ air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) data showed that stubble burning count over Punjab and Haryana on Tuesday was 3,068. The crop burning count has been above 3,000 for the last five days now.IMD scientists said that the temperature is expected to remain around the 10 degree Celsius mark through the week. The minimum temperature has been hovering at 3-5 degrees below normal for the past five days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-aqi-improves-to-280-stops-in-poor-category/story-aX3VURYKgQhhYmMtF46VTL.html
04-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s minimum temperature rises a bit, settles at 10.6°C||Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 10.6 degrees Celsius (C) till 8.30am on Wednesday. The national capital has recorded minimum temperatures of 11-10 degrees C for the past four days. The Regional Meteorological Centre, Delhi, said cold wave-like conditions are prevailing in the national capital.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said “under the influence of cold and dry north-westerly winds, cold-wave conditions are likely to occur in isolated pockets over Haryana and Delhi on Wednesday (November 4) and over Haryana, Punjab and north Rajasthan on Thursday (November 5).”Also read | Winds check stubble burning residue in Delhi air, but AQI dips to ‘very poor’Scientists at the IMD said that the temperature is expected to remain around the 10-degree mark through the week. The minimum temperature has been hovering between 3 and 5 degrees C below normal for the past five days.A “cold wave” occurs when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees C or less, and 4.5 degrees less than normal for two consecutive days“Technically, the cold wave hasn’t been announced yet, but the conditions are close to a similar weather condition,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.Scientists have said minimum temperatures have dropped significantly for the past four days because of cold north-westerly winds from the Himalayas blowing over the northern plains and subsidence of cold air over parts of the north-western region.“The winds are north-westerly, and cold air is blowing towards the plains from the Himalayas. This is also a La Nina year. The circulation features are such that there is more cold air intrusion into the northern plains. We need to brace for a very cold winter,” said M Rajeevan, secretary, Union ministry of Earth Sciences (MoES).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-minimum-temperature-rises-a-bit-settles-at-10-7-c/story-0EReAYC85MbrwGNXqFEWDN.html
04-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi restaurants no longer need tourism licence, govt notifies order||The Delhi government on Tuesday issued an order notifying that restaurants in Delhi will no longer have to acquire a licence from the tourism department in order to function, the government said in a press statement.The notification comes around a month after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had announced that the process was on to ensure that restaurants in the city can operate round the clock, and to do away with the requirement for obtaining tourism and health trade licences, apart from a police verification. He said his government was also tweaking some fire safety norms in heritage buildings of Connaught Place and Khan Market and a few excise rules to allow serving liquor in open spaces within the premise of an enterprise and to ensure more flexibility regarding storage liquor.These measures were part of the government’s “ease of doing business” policy, aimed at boosting the capital’s economy in the light of the Covid-19 pandemic.While tourism licence and excise rules directly come under the city government’s domain, the other measures would involve multiple agencies such as the Delhi Police and the three municipal corporations.A government statement said the tourism licence was initially issued by the Union government and came under the state domain only in 2003. Since then, the government of Delhi had made it mandatory for all restaurants with seating capacity of 30 and above to seek this licence.“Various reviews and considerations were done by the state tourism department over the last few months on the request of restaurant associations. However, owing to the recent circumstances concerning Covid-19, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has ordered the removal of the voluntary scheme of granting approval for standalone restaurants,” the statement said. Sandeep Khandelwal of Delhi hotels and restaurants owners’ association said, “This is a welcome move. Such licences and permits are often unnecessary as they lead to duplication. They waste the time of the authorities as well as entrepreneurs.”Regarding health trade licences, the government has already run into a standoff with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led municipal corporations (MCD). While the AAP has been asserting that the health trade licence now comes under exclusive domain of the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India, which comes under the Centre, MCDs have maintained they are reviewing the protocol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-restaurants-no-longer-need-tourism-licence-govt-notifies-order/story-GDiFWAaEwHCg4ZFgttyjzN.html
04-11-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Spot the poet||The hall is silent. The lights are turned off. A sliver of sunshine is sneaking inside through a barely-opened door, making poet Ghalib’s wall portrait faintly visible.Nobody is around but for this lone man sitting on the centre seat of the front row, here in the auditorium of central Delhi’s Ghalib Academy.The man is wearing the playful devil’s horns that light up at night—the kind sold by hawkers to dwellers in the India Gate grounds. He is also holding plastic rods glowing red and green.The scene is suitably surreal.“I walked in a minute back on seeing Ghalib’s photo (actually a portrait) outside the building,” says Muhammed Irshad. A street hawker, he was selling toys on the street. He says he has walked about the area more than once, but spotted this landmark celebrating the life and times of a great Delhi poet for the first time only today. A native of Samastipur, in Bihar, the middle-aged Mr Irshad recalls that he read a few of Ghalib’s poetry at school, back in the 1990s. “I had to leave studies long time back, and I don’t remember anything of the poems but I remember that I had liked the verses a lot.”Lounging back on the auditorium chair, as if binge-watching a feel-good web series, Mr Irshad lets a relaxing smile spread about his lips.He feels alone in this city, he says. His family lives in Bihar. He works hard, he declares. He gets the toys from a wholesale market in east Delhi’s Shahdara and sells them in the southern parts of the Capital.Looking about in the darkness, he collects his thoughts about the age-old question of the place of poetry in daily life. “Poets matter. Ghalib wrote more than a hundred years ago but he is still remembered... whereas we will not be remembered after our death.”Peering towards the stage, as if talking to an invisible presence there, he mutters “The good poems give good morals... you follow their sabak (lessons) and that helps you in life.”Now Mr Irshad gets up. Apparently there’s a museum upstairs, he says in a hushed tone as if sharing a piece of precious gossip. He plans to check it out. His devil’s horns continue to glow red.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-spot-the-poet/story-y3XKPWvZkKdllP0CeTDpTI.html
04-11-2020||Noida||Police suspect Youtuber killed 26-yr-old for opposing match with his sister||The Noida Police on Tuesday said they suspect that arrested YouTuber Nizamul Khan may have murdered 26-year-old Kamal Sharma because the latter opposed Khan marrying his sister.On Monday, three people, including Khan, were arrested for their alleged involvement in the October 27 murder of Sharma, who lived in Nithari village. The arrested suspects also include Amit Gupta, a resident of Noida’s Sector 20, and Sumit Sharma, a resident of Usmanpur in New Delhi.Khan, popular for his videos as performer of biker stunts, has over 900,000 followers on Youtube and earns between Rs 50,000-Rs 60,000 a month through his videos, said police.The three suspects were produced in court and sent to 14-day judicial custody on Tuesday. Love Kumar, Gautam Budh Nagar additional commissioner of police, said Sharma was found wounded near Elevated Road Loop near Iskcon Temple on October 28 around 7pm.“Locals sent Kamal in an auto to Noida’s district hospital for medical treatment. However, the victim was declared dead on arrival,” Kumar said. The autopsy revealed the victim was shot in the back. Sharma’s brother, Naresh Sharma, filed a complaint in Sector 24 police station, after which over 100 people from Nithari village gathered near the Sector 25 intersection under the Noida Elevated Road and protested, demanding justice for the victim.Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, Noida, said the police launched an investigation and scanned CCTV footage from different spots. “The three suspects were seen conducting a recce of Kamal’s workplace in Noida Sector 63 on October 27. On October 28, 6 pm, the three suspects again reached Kamal’s office. Sumit was dropped at the spot while two others – Khan and Amit - followed Kamal on a motorcycle.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/police-suspect-youtuber-killed-26-yr-old-for-opposing-match-with-his-sister/story-it0B9fZkjkmrDRc6tp7VmK.html
04-11-2020||Delhi||Winds check stubble burning residue in Delhi air, but AQI dips to ‘very poor’||After slight improvement, Delhi’s air on Tuesday deteriorated and touched the outer margins of the ‘very poor’ category.Even though farm fires continued raging in Punjab and Haryana, with more than 3,000 cases being spotted on Tuesday again, a change in the wind direction helped keep the share of stubble fumes on the city’s pollution under check. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data shows that the overall air quality index of Delhi was 302, in the ‘very poor’ category. On Monday, the city’s AQI had improved to ‘poor’ category, at 293. Scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said though the city choked, high wind speed helped keep the situation from deteriorating. VK Soni, head of IMD’s environment monitoring research centre, said that the AQI levels are likely to remain in the early end of ‘very poor’ category till November 5, after which there could be a marginal deterioration again. “On Tuesday, in the morning, there was a spike in the pollution levels but by noon the wind speed picked up and the air cleared up. The wind speed post-noon was around 15kmph,” said Soni. Union ministry of earth sciences’ air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) data showed that stubble burning count over Punjab and Haryana on Tuesday was 3068. The crop burning count has been above 3000 for the last five days now. “The boundary layer wind direction became unfavourable (south-westerly on Tuesday morning) after a long spell, fire-related stubble burning share in PM2.5 in Delhi’s air has significantly decreased and is estimated as 10% for Tuesday. Today (Tuesday) is a typical example of high fire count and low impact in Delhi’s air, due to unfavourable transport level winds demonstrating as to how meteorology can play a decisive role,” read the Safar air quality analysis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/winds-check-stubble-burning-residue-in-delhi-air-but-aqi-dips-to-very-poor/story-wMK4upzCftFRSzHP0fyqXP.html
04-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi government’s anti-firecracker drive begins||Environment minister Gopal Rai on Tuesday kick-started the Delhi government’s anti-cracker campaign, urging people to avoid fireworks on Diwali, or to at least to ensure they buy only the ‘green’, low-emission varieties, in an attempt to cut down on air pollution, which is a bigger concern this year due to the Covid-19 crisis.As part of the campaign, Rai visited Sadar Bazar, one of Delhi’s biggest wholesale firecracker markets, for an inspection and to ensure only green crackers are sold. Diwali this year will be celebrated on November 14. Every year, pollution levels see a major spike after the festival as people openly burst firecrackers. Under this campaign, 11 teams of the Delhi Pollution Control Committee have been directed to ensure no traditional, polluting crackers are used or sold. Apart from these teams, Delhi Police personnel and sub-divisional magistrates of all districts will inspect markets to ensure old stocks of traditional varieties are not sold clandestinely. “According to directions of the Supreme Court, polluting crackers have been banned in Delhi and only pollution-free green crackers have been allowed this year. The teams will ensure only the less-polluting varieties of crackers are sold. I would also like to request Delhiites to avoid bursting crackers, as much as possible,” said Rai. Rai said, “We are ensuring two things -- first, the firecrackers must have a ‘green cracker’ logo on them. Second, the crackers sold in shops must be from authorised companies. We are following Supreme Court guidelines. The Delhi government will follow any new directions to curb pollution.” Narendra Gupta, president of the fireworks and general traders association, Sadar Bazar, said traders assured the government they will comply with its order and sell only green crackers. In 2017, ahead of Diwali, the Supreme Court had put a temporary ban on the sale and purchase of firecrackers in Delhi-NCR. In the last two years, however, the court had ordered that only low-emission and improved fireworks could be sold in Delhi. Residents were allowed to burst only green crackers, which are said to have 30% lower emission compared to older ones. Surendra Kumar, a trader, said even though more green crackers are available this year, the number of traders selling these is much less compared to previous years. “If shops selling the less polluting varieties are fewer, then there is possibility of unauthorised dealers selling old stock. Business has taken a hit over the last two-three years because of lack of clarity on rules till this year,” Kumar said. He said since the new varieties are more expensive, many people prefer to get old ones from NCR towns such as Ghaziabad, Faridabad and Noida. Parvati Kandasamy, president of the joint resident welfare association in West Patel Nagar, said they have been sensitising residents to avoid cracker bursting this year. “Through our WhatsApp groups and social media pages, we are getting people to join our cracker-free Diwali campaign.,” said Kandasamy. Anumita Roychowdhury of Centre for Science and Environment, said the focus should be to save the city from the annual air emergency. “Even last year, we were doing reasonably well in maintaining pollution levels from falling, but with Diwali, we were back facing the severe category,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-government-s-anti-firecracker-drive-begins/story-6Z032C4zqBAi0omT78ovaL.html
04-11-2020||City||FCI trails in procurement target this year too, buys just 1.2% of Punjab’s total paddy||The Food Corporation of India (FCI) has procured only 1.98 lakh metric tonne (1.29%) of a total of 154 lakh metric tonne paddy in Punjab this year even as the agency is mandated to purchase at least 5% of the grain arriving in the state’s mandis for contribution to the central pool. Last year, the central agency purchased 2.45 lakh MT paddy directly from Punjab’s grain markets. The total estimated procurement in the state is likely to remain around 175 lakh metric tonne this kharif season, according to the Punjab government. The four state agencies — Pungrain, Punsup, Markfed and the Punjab State Warehouse Corporation — procure paddy from the state farmers and hand it over to the FCI, for which state is paid in advance in the form of cash credit limit (CCL). A senior official said the FCI’s process of procuring foodgrains is different from that of the state procurementagencies as it only purchased paddy froma few purchasing centres. “We adopt our own storage process rather than storing paddy in private mills to avoid losses and litigation. Therefore, we only procured paddy from purchasing centres located near our godowns,” the official said. On the other hand, state procurement agencies have managed to cross their set targets. The Pungrain has purchased 62 lakh MT (40.83%), Markfed 39 lakh MT (25.86%), Punsup 32 lakh MT (21.01%), Warehouse 16 lakh MT (10.69%), and private players 47,388 MT (.30%) so far. FCI regional general manager (Punjab) Arshdeep Singh Thind said there is a lot of logistics involved in their direct purchase of paddy from the grain markets. “Moreover, we get the paddy stock under the central pool system as the state agencies usually procure on the central agency’s behalf. In fact, direct purchase depends upon a number of grain markets allotted to the FCI for procurement,” Thind added. Of a total of nearly 4,000 purchasing centres in Punjab, the FCI is purchasing paddy from 160 allotted centres only.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fci-trails-in-procurement-target-this-year-too-buys-just-1-2-of-punjab-s-total-paddy/story-hCAO8WLvlViF6qKdLw0CZO.html
04-11-2020||City||Bollywood actor Vijay Raaz arrested in Gondia for outraging modesty of his co-star||Bollywood actor Vijay Raaz was arrested by Gondia police on Tuesday, for allegedly outraging the modesty of his co-star. According to reports, Raaz, 57, was staying in Gondia since October 20 along with around 50 cast and crew members for a film shoot being held in Balaghat district of Madhya Pradesh. They were staying in two different hotels in Gondia and used to travel to Balaghat, some 40km away, for filming in forest areas. According to a police complaint filed by the actor’s 30-year-old co-star, Raaz continuously harassed and teased her. The actor allegedly tried to molest the woman on three occasions. The woman then approached the local police on Monday night and filed a formal complaint. Pramod Ghonge, investigating officer of Ram Nagar police station in Gondia, said that Raaz has been booked under section of 354 (A, D) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and was produced before the local court. He was later released on bail, Ghonge said. Raaz did not respond to HT’s requests for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bollywood-actor-vijay-raaz-arrested-in-gondia-for-outraging-modesty-of-his-co-star/story-Q9sUaefjIYbN6toXGxeLCK.html
04-11-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC to hear whether convicts under all special Acts should be eligible for Covid-19 parole||A full bench of the Bombay high court on Tuesday, while hearing a reference made to it by a two-judge bench to decide whether prisoners convicted under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act can be extended the facility of emergency parole due to Covid pandemic, has expanded the scope of the reference for prisoners convicted under all special laws. The bench has sought a response from the state government and will hear the case on November 5.The bench, comprising of justices KK Tated, GS Kulkarni and NR Borkar, was informed by advocate Rupesh Jaiswal that an earlier division bench of justice SS Shinde and MS Karnik, while hearing the application of his client for emergency parole, had been presented with conflicting views on the issue. Jaiswal submitted that as another bench of the HC had granted parole to a man convicted under the Pcoso Act, his client was also eligible for the same benefit. He further submitted that the government notification of May 8 while excluding convicts charged under UAPA, MCOCA, MPID, PMLA, TADA and other special Acts from the benefit of emergency bail, parole and furlough, had not specifically mentioned convicts under the Pocso Act and hence there was no impediment in granting him parole.Jaiswal informed the full bench that apart from the above he had also placed orders which allowed convicts serving sentences of more than seven years also getting the benefit of emergency parole. Jaiswal, however, added that as there were conflicting orders with regards to whether Pocso Act was a special act and whether prisoners serving sentences above seven years were eligible for emergency parole, the division bench had made a reference to a larger bench. In light of the above Jaiswal submitted that the full bench was to decide on the reference.After hearing the submissions, the full bench observed that as the issue was about prisoners convicted under all special acts, hence it wanted to know the stand of the state on it. Asking the state to respond, the matter was adjourned to Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-to-hear-whether-convicts-under-all-special-acts-should-be-eligible-for-covid-19-parole/story-4TzHMhAuWUohSnfH5bcNdP.html
04-11-2020||Delhi||10°C: Chilly Delhi on cold wave brink||The national capital continued to experience winter chill weeks ahead of “normal” schedule, with the minimum temperature on Tuesday lower than in several hill towns, pushing the city to the brink of its first early November “cold wave” in at least 30 years.Delhi’s minimum temperature, recorded at the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official reading for the city, was 10 degrees Celsius at 6:30am. This was lower than the minimum temperatures recorded in Dalhousie (10.9 degrees), Kasauli (10.7 degrees), Dharamsala (10.6 degrees), Kangra (10.2 degrees), and Mussoorie (10.4 degrees).Scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that the temperature is expected to remain around the 10-degree mark through the week. The minimum temperature has been hovering at 3-5 degrees below normal for the past five days.A “cold wave” is when the minimum temperature 10 degrees Celsius or less, and 4.5 degrees less than normal for two consecutive days. Another chilly morning on Wednesday would officially put the city in the midst of a cold wave. Delhi’s minimum temperature on Monday was 10.8 degrees.The normal minimum temperature for this part of the year is 14-15 degrees Celsius. Cold waves in Delhi are not unusual in November-end. But officials said there has been no cold wave in the first week of November in at least the last three decades. Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said temperatures dropping to such levels were highly unusual for Delhi and NCR towns at this time of the year. “In Delhi, there has been no drastic change in the conditions that would trigger such a drop in the temperature. The only difference is that over the last two days because of a western disturbance, there was light rain and snow fall over Himachal Pradesh and Jammu & Kashmir. In the coming two days too, there is a forecast of light rain over Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir and Uttarakhand. This will bring cold winds from these regions to Delhi and neighbouring cities, dropping the temperatures,” Srivastava said. Other experts suggested that the signs pointed to an unusually cold winter.“The winds are northwesterly, so cold air is blowing towards the plains from the Himalayas. But this is a La Nina year, and the circulation features are such that there is more cold air intrusion into the northern plains. We can expect a very cold winter this year,” said M Rajeevan, secretary, ministry of earth sciences. La Nina, the cold phase of El Niño and the Southern Oscillation (Enso), is a periodic fluctuation in sea surface temperature and the air pressure of the overlying atmosphere across the equatorial Pacific Ocean. According to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), it is associated with strong monsoon, above average rains, and colder winters in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/10-c-chilly-delhi-on-cold-wave-brink/story-aL9FjYBMrqoe3pI7yqjeYK.html
04-11-2020||Mumbai||Four arrested for murdering 18-year-old at Mumbai’s Powai lake||Officers of unit 10 of the Mumbai crime branch on Tuesday arrested three men for allegedly killing an eighteen-year-old man at Powai lake over a petty fight on October 20.According to the crime branch, the victim Tanvir Nadaf was roaming on the Powai lake promenade when he bumped into one of the accused. The man got angry and began fighting with Nadaf.When Nadaf retaliated, the accused called two of his accomplices. The three men, identified as Vinod Nandlal Thakur, Shashank Ramchandra Jadhav and Nikesh Gangaram Jadhav then beat Nadaf up and left him bleeding at the promenade.Later, Nadaf’s friend noticed him lying at the promenade and rushed him to Rajawadi Hospital. After giving police his statement, Nadaf succumbed to his injuries on October 21.The police and the crime branch were on the lookout for the accused based on the descriptions provided by Nadaf.On Monday, officers found Nikesh roaming in the vicinity of Powai lake. They detained and questioned him to find out that on October 2, Nadaf had robbed a mobile phone and some documents from Nikesh who was on duty at a private security firm.“Nikesh told us that he had seen Nadaf’s face while he was fleeing the scene after the theft,” said Vinay Ghorpade, senior police inspector of Unit 10.Nikesh further told police that on October 20, when they spotted Nadaf near Powai lake, they tied him up with a rope and beat him up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/four-arrested-for-murdering-18-year-old-at-mumbai-s-powai-lake/story-S4F6GOyCSBaN1ZgttQBGAN.html
04-11-2020||City||Palghar lynching case: 4 accused granted bail by Thane court||The Thane special sessions court on Tuesday granted bail to four accused in the Palghar lynching case. Nilesh Jadhav, his brother Manoj Jadhav, their father Laxman Ramji Jadhav, and Tukaram Rupji Jadhav were granted bail by Judge PP Jadhav, on a personal bond of ₹15,000 each, with surety. Meanwhile, the bail hearing of the 62 other accused will be heard by the Thane court on November 26.The state criminal investigation department (CID) had named 208 new accused in the April 16 lynching case in which three people were killed. As of now, 366 accused have been arrested in the case, 11 juveniles. Five months after Gaurav Singh, former superintendent of police (SP), Palghar, was sent on compulsory leave by state home minister Anil Deshmukh following the lynching incident, he has now been posted as a superintendent of the Maharashtra Police Academy, Nashik, by the state home ministry.The state government in a reply to the Supreme Court, regarding a petition seeking to hand over the case to a Central agency, had last Wednesday, mentioned that no dereliction of duty was found on Singh’s part and thus was given a clean chit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/palghar-lynching-case-4-accused-granted-bail-by-thane-court/story-CSEVs6n0j3azZ4LyQh5yLP.html
04-11-2020||Delhi||Third wave: 6.7k new Covid-19 cases in Delhi||The Capital on Tuesday again set a record for the highest Covid-19 cases reported in a single day with 6,725 new infections taking the total tally in the Capital past 400,000, as the outbreak continued to worsen to levels never witnessed before in the city.Experts raised alarm over the continuously rising positivity rate – the proportion of tests that come back positive for Covid-19. The positivity rate on Tuesday stood at 11.29%, reinforcing the fact that the virus is spreading at an unprecedented rate amid festive season and rising pollution. A rising positivity rate typically suggests that a region is testing inadequately.This means that more than a tenth (10.7%) of all tests in the past week have come back positive in the last week – the highest weekly positivity rate has touched in the city since July 7, when it was at 10.5%.The rise in positivity rate took place even as the number of gold-standard RT-PCR tests on Tuesday witnessed a drop. According to Tuesday’s Delhi government bulletin, of the 59,540 samples tested in the past 24 hours, only 13,560 were RT-PCR – this is the lowest weekday RT-PCR sample size in the last three weeks.Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, or RT-PCR, tests are significantly better than rapid antigen tests at detecting positive cases – the latter has a higher tendency to give false negative. As a result, the higher the share of RT-PCR tests in overall testing, the more accurate the positivity rate is. In other words, the low RT-PCR count may be masking a much higher positivity rate on the ground. In the past week, 5,536 new cases were reported on average every day, the highest this number has ever been in Delhi. Before this, the seven-day average (also known as the case trajectory) was highest at 4,174 at the height of the second wave on September 17 and 3,446 at the height of the first, which was on June 26.Worried about the continuous spike in Delhi’s infections during the ongoing festive season, and at the start of winter, top officials from the Union and the Delhi governments met on Monday and discussed a recalibration of testing, treating and surveillance strategies.This was the second time that the Centre intervened into rapidly rising Covid cases in Delhi. In July, Union home minister Amit Shah held a round of meetings with Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and other officials after which, testing, contact tracing and sero surveillance were ramped up in Delhi with the two governments working in coordination.Last Tuesday, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain claimed the positivity rate spike was down to testing the contacts of patients in a “targeted manner”.Health experts, however, disagreed. Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology and infectious diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research, said, “The government says that the positivity rate is going up because more people are being tested. That is not true. For example, if you want to check the concentration of fat in a milk sample, it will be the same whether you test 100ml, 200ml or a litre. Of course, RT-PCR picks up more cases than the rapid antigen tests but the transmission in the city is going up.” He added that the government needs to put in restrictions to reduce interaction of people — curbs on how many can gather for weddings and funerals, closing of non-essential services such as the cinemas, bars and restaurants, and limiting the number of people on public transport. The government should also stagger the timings of the markets and enforce mask-wearing through challans, he said. “I don’t think we should attribute every rise and fall in the number of cases on testing; it does have a role, but a small one. That said, there is no rationale behind reducing testing because that will mean artificially reducing the numbers. And, we know RT PCR test picks up more cases than the rapid antigen test,” said Dr Shobha Broor, former head of the department of microbiology at AIIMS. “Look at what is happening outside, people are out and about. The markets are crowded, traffic is back to normal on the roads. The masks have become chin-accessories and no one is following social distancing. Add to that the increase in the levels of air pollution in the city and the dip in temperature,” Broor said.With the rise in the number of cases, the number of hospitalisations has gone up to over 6,700 – the highest this has been since hospitalisations peaked at just over 7,000 during the September surge. There are over 15,700 beds earmarked for the treatment of Covid-19 in hospitals across the city, of which 43.6% are now occupied.However, it is the occupancy in the intensive care unit (ICU) that has the government worried. As on Tuesday evening, almost 69% of the 3,175 ICU beds were occupied, according to data on the Delhi corona app. “1,000 ICU beds were added last month. But, given the surge in number, Delhi Government plans to scale up to 30,000 beds,” wrote Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Facebook.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/third-wave-6-7k-new-covid-cases-in-delhi/story-kkhC7Gj4As2WSGUvHcQomK.html
04-11-2020||City||Constable dismissed for forging documents to make passport||A constable, Rajinder Singh, has been arrested and his services dismissed with immediate effect for forging documents to make passport of one Sarabjeet Singh, against whom several cases were already registered, Zirakpur police said on Tuesday. Two constables namely Rajinder Singh and Sarvjeet Singh went for the enquiry of Sarabjeet’s passport, who is a resident of Zirakpur. Despite several cases registered against him, both the constables forged documents and helped him in obtaining his passport, following which he even went abroad, the police said. A complaint was lodged in the SSP office on October 18, following which the police arrested Rajinder under sections 420, 421, 466, 467, 471, 167, and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Passport Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/constable-dismissed-for-forging-documents-to-make-passport/story-04tTySh6CFOEOIildSkXqN.html
04-11-2020||City||Homeless man bludgeons friend to death in Ludhiana||A homeless man bludgeoned his friend to death, with bricks, on a vacant plot, opposite the mini-secretariat, on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday. The victim was asleep at the time of the attack.His friends, who were also sleeping nearby, caught the accused, Bittu Tope, 32, of Orissa, while he was trying to flee and handed him over to the police. The friends reportedly tied him to a tree till the police arrived.The body of the victim, identified as Pandit alias Kasa, 30, has been sent to the civil hospital for post-mortem.Division Number 8 station house officer, inspector Jarnail Singh said that during interrogation, Bittu revealed that he had an argument with the victim earlier in the day. “Bittu alleged that Kasa had stolen his bag full of clothes on Monday morning, which triggered a spat between them. Later at night, to teach Kasa a lesson, Bittu attacked him with bricks,” the cop said, adding that accused was in an inebriated condition at the time of the attack.According to the police, the accused and the victim are both homeless. They used to work as waiters at wedding functions and parties to earn a living. They depended on shrines and Good Samaritans for food. A case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused. The police have also recovered the blood-soaked bricks from the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/homeless-man-bludgeons-friend-to-death-in-ludhiana/story-4ggvOxJURhvBhBocveg6cM.html
04-11-2020||City||Runaway couple ‘assaulted’ in Zirakpur, kidnapping case registered against woman’s kin||Zirakpur police have registered a case of kidnapping against relatives of a woman, who reportedly married against their wishes.As per the police, the woman, Roopneet Kaur, had on October 28 married Salvinder Singh, who belongs to a different caste, but her parents were against their marriage. On Tuesday, when the couple came to meet their advocate on the VIP Road in Zirakpur, the woman’s family members were already present there. As the couple came out of their vehicle, at least four persons assaulted them and even damaged their car before “abducting” the woman in broad daylight.On the complaint of Salvinder, a case was registered against woman’s brother Jagvinder Singh, paternal uncle Sahib Singh, another paternal uncle Baldev Singh, grandfather Sadhu Singh and few more unidentified persons under Section 365 (kidnapping or abducting with intent secretly and wrongfully to confine person) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The couple had run away from their homes and got married at a Kharar gurdwara.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/runaway-couple-assaulted-in-zirakpur-kidnapping-case-registered-against-woman-s-kin/story-mzU4JNuvgUIXJo4oa99FAP.html
04-11-2020||City||Bihar native found brutally murdered in Ludhiana||A 41-year-old man was found brutally murdered on a vacant plot near the hosiery complex on Bahadurke road on Tuesday morning. His face seemed to have been bludgeoned with bricks, police said.The victim has been identified as Raju Basak of Bihar, with the help of the Aadhar card recovered from his pocket.Assistant commissioner of police (North) Gurbinder Singh said that some people noticed the body lying on the plot and informed the police. The police are yet to establish if the victim was a resident of Ludhiana. They have contacted the Bihar police to further contact the victim’s family. The ACP added that it is suspected that the assailants had murdered the man on late Monday night and fled after dumping the body here. Cops are looking at the rivalry angle as of now. They are also making announcements in surrounding areas to find out if someone knew the victim.A murder case has been lodged against unidentified persons at Basti Jodhewal police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bihar-native-found-brutally-murdered-in-ludhiana/story-skVr0DbDOQy66lE3nrrqLP.html
04-11-2020||City||3 arrested for strangling daughter over a love affair in Vasai, near Mumbai||Vasai Gaon police have arrested three members of a family for allegedly attempting to kill a 19-year-old woman on Sunday. Anant Parad, senior inspector, said, “The girl, a college student, was in love with a man from another religion. Her father Vinod Kashyap, 55, mother Renuka, 50, and brother Vinod, 25, were against their marriage and decided to kill her.”The accused called the victim to Suruchibaug beach in Vasai for a stroll and strangulated her using her dupatta. “They then dumped the girl in the bushes thinking she was dead,” said.The locals spotted her in the bushed and informed the police. The girl was admitted to a Civic Hospital. She regained consciousness on Monday, Parad said.The three accused are booked under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 325 (causing grievous hurt) of the Indian Penal Code and are remanded in police custody till November 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-arrested-for-strangling-daughter-over-a-love-affair-in-vasai-near-mumbai/story-gQCHVzxW36NKFF9ua7PgsM.html
04-11-2020||City||Eight, including panchayat members, booked for abetting woman’s suicide in Ludhiana||Eight persons, including the sarpanch and panchayat secretary of Balliyewal village, have been booked for abetment after a 38-year-old woman ended her life on Tuesday. The accused have been identified as panchayat secretary Makhan Singh, village residents Bhola, his wife Nimma, Peet and Binda. The sarpanch and another panchayat member have not been identified by name in the FIR.The case has been lodged on the victim’s husband’s complaint, who alleged that the accused had humiliated the woman over a chunk of land, which forced her to take the extreme step.He alleged that the panchayat had given him a piece of land, on which he set up a cattle shed. Some residents of the village wanted to build a temple on the land and asked him to shift the cattle shed elsewhere. When he refused, the accused barged into his house on October 1 and threatened him. The next day, he went to the police station to lodge a complaint but found that the accused had already filed a complaint against him. When he returned home, the accused again reached there and humiliated his wife. Unable to bear this, the woman hanged herself.Assistant sub-inspector Baldev Singh, who is investigating the case, said that an FIR under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Koomkalan police station. The police will arrest the accused soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/eight-including-panchayat-members-booked-for-abetting-woman-s-suicide-in-ludhiana/story-Uu2Oi6u6R24TuFYAi8jQcK.html
04-11-2020||City||7-month-pregnant woman gives birth in train toilet at Palghar||A 27-year-old woman gave birth to a two-kg baby boy in the toilet of the 19041 Down Bandra Ghazipur Covid Special train at Palghar on Monday morning. Gudiya Vishwakarma, a resident of Santosh Bhuvan in Nallasopara (East) was travelling on the train when she went into premature labour. The train made an unscheduled halt at Palghar and Dr Rajendra Chauhan, a gynaecologist was summoned by Western Railway (WR) staff. The patient and the new-born were later admitted to a maternity hospital.Vishwakarma, who was seven months pregnant, her husband Rajesh, 33, and their daughter Aayushi, five, were travelling on the train when she experienced severe labour pains and rushed to the on-board toilet. Meanwhile, Rajesh informed the travelling ticket examiner (TTE) on the train who contacted the traffic control office. The train then made an unscheduled halt at Palghar at around 12.30am, and Dr Chauhan was informed.I reached the coach along with other staff and managed to enter the toilet. Vishwakarma had already delivered her baby and was holding him in her hands with the umbilical cord still attached. My staff cut the cord, and as no ambulance was available, I held the baby while a moving stretcher was used to wheel the patient to Kanta Maternity Hospital near the railhead,” said Dr Chauhan.The birth was a normal delivery, and the patient and child were discharged on Monday evening. “Our doctor had told us that my wife would give birth sometime in December. As we live alone and I spend a lot of time at work, we decided to go to our hometown of Mariahu in Jaunpur, Uttar Pradesh, so that Gudiya could be looked after better,” said Rajesh. “But God had willed otherwise, and she gave birth inside the train toilet,” he added.Dr Chauhan refused to charge Vishwakarma for treatment as a salute to the WR staffers who are transporting essential goods to all corners of the country during the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/7-month-pregnant-woman-gives-birth-in-train-toilet-at-palghar/story-A1aZXLYRcElmF1cH3tQmBK.html
04-11-2020||City||Covid update: One dead, 60 positive in Ludhiana||A 65-year-old man succumbed to Covid-19 on Tuesday, pushing the district’s death toll to 839 even as 60 more people tested positive for the virus in the last 24 hours.The new infections include 17 patients referred from the out-patient departments of various city hospitals, 25 having influenza-like illnesses, two health-care workers, two pregnant women and an international traveller.The district’s cumulative tally of cases has reached 20,474, of which 19,206 have recovered, leaving 426 active cases. Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said, the district currently has 426 active patients. He added that in all, 74 patients tested positive in the last 24 hours, of which 60 are Ludhiana residents while 14 are from other states and districts.He added that reports of 1, 394 samples are still pending. The DC further revealed that three patients from other districts also breathed their last in city hospitals. Sharma said that 159 persons were sent for home quarantine on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-update-one-dead-60-positive-in-ludhiana/story-0CGLT75z88h3FDUmBbVKbL.html
04-11-2020||Mumbai||Matheran toy train service resumes||Toy train services between Aman Lodge and Matheran railway station will resume from Wednesday. The Central Railway (CR) on Tuesday announced the resumption of four daily shuttle services between the two stations.“The first train will depart from Matheran at 9.30am, while the last train will depart from Aman Lodge at 4.43pm. Three second-class, one first-class and two luggage vans,” said a senior CR official.Earlier, CR resumed parcel train services to provide essential food items for people residing in Matheran. The services were suspended on June 2, after poor response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/matheran-toy-train-service-resumes/story-eUM252TKNScNnUSywfe0PK.html
04-11-2020||City||Man posing as cop to dupe Mumbai women constables had flunked police recruitment exam||A week after Kalamboli police arrested a 28-year-old man for posing as a police sub-inspector (PSI) and duping at least three women constables of the Mumbai Police, investigators found that the accused had failed to get selected to the police recruitment. The accused Milind Deshmukh, a resident of Palghar district, attempted the police recruitment exam a couple of years ago, said police. “He failed to make the selection but continued making friends in the constabulary. Eventually, he started duping women constables by either promising them marriage or by taking money from them,” said an officer from Kalamboli police station. The police investigation revealed that Deshmukh, who was arrested on October 26, was previously arrested by Vashi police, Rabale police and Rabale MIDC police over a year and a half ago. In the Rabale case, Deshmukh conned a Thane woman constable of ₹1.75 lakh. The accused had a pattern of targeting women constables of the same force. Previously, he started duping Thane police constables, and this year, he conned Mumbai Police constables. He has stuck to his modus operandi after he successfully conned a few women at the start of his criminal career, said police. Investigators have not recovered any fake uniform from Deshmukh’s possession. They did, however, discover that he had uploaded a profile picture to give the appearance that he was in uniform. “The profile he created in the name of fictitious sub-inspector Ganesh More has a slightly cropped image, so it looks like he is in a uniform. He tricks women after continuing conversations with them on messaging applications, and tells them that his display picture is of him in uniform,” said Sanjay Sadigale, assistant inspector at Kalamboli police station. Police have meanwhile contacted other women constables he allegedly duped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-posing-as-cop-to-dupe-mumbai-women-constables-had-flunked-police-recruitment-exam/story-st10EMg2g5z2tOyxLzqemL.html
04-11-2020||City||Buddha Nullah pollution: MC to snap connections of dyeing units dumping untreated waste into sewer lines||For tightening the noose around dyeing units that dump untreated waste into the municipal corporation (MC)’s sewer lines, the civic body has decided to snap their sewer connections. The MC’s executive engineers have been told to identify such units and snap their connections within five days. They will also have to submit an action-taken report in this time period. Action will also be taken against units that have more than one sewer connection to discharge waste.There are around 300 dyeing units near Tajpur road, Bahadurke road and Focal Point. While the common effluent treatment plant (CETP) for Bahadurke road dyeing industry has been made functional, CETPs for the other two are clusters are yet to be completed. Due to this, the dyeing units here are dumping untreated waste into MC’s sewer lines. Residents and councillors have long been complaining about the untreated water from these units, stating that this is leading to pollution of the Buddha Nullah.The MC’s sewer lines have also been getting choked due to the excessive discharge from these units. MC superintending engineer Rajinder Singh said, “We have received a letter from the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) to take action against the erring dyeing units. The executive engineers have been told to do the needful.”PPCB and MC have been facing flak for failing to take action against the erring dyeing units and the National Green Tribunal (NGT)’s monitoring committee had also taken a note of the same in the past.Local bodies secretary to visit city todayWith the state government working on a 650-crore project to rejuvenate the Buddha Nullah, local bodies department secretary Ajoy Sharma is expected to visit the city on Wednesday to inspect the sewer treatment plants (STP). It is expected that a meeting will also be held regarding shifting of dairy units and removal of encroachments alongside Buddha Nullah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/buddha-nullah-pollution-mc-to-snap-connections-of-dyeing-units-dumping-untreated-waste-into-sewer-lines/story-UwHWOKD5AWUtuAnm7zrXVN.html
04-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Monitoring station on seasonal rivulet N-choe to be installed by November 20||For real-time monitoring of pollution levels in the N-choe, the UT administration will be installing a water monitoring station on the seasonal rivulet by November 20.The UT engineering department will live-track the pollution levels in the seasonal rivulet from the monitoring station, which will be set up near the Garden of Silence in Sector 42 for ₹19 lakh.A UT official said the development comes on the directions of the National Green Tribunal (NGT), which had ordered the setting up of monitoring stations on the N-choe and Sukhna choe for real-time assessment of pollution levels in them. Both the rivulets merge in the Ghaggar river near Zirakpur adding to its pollution.Tenders for the project were floated in September. “The agency will also be accountable for the maintenance of the equipment to be installed at the site,” the official said.Meanwhile, the location for setting up of the monitoring station on the Sukhna choe is yet to be decided. “Proper space and infrastructure, and basic amenities like electricity are not available near the Sukhna choe. However, possibilities are being explored,” said the official.A joint team of the engineering department and the Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC) will inspect areas around the Sukhna choe this week to finalise the location within this month, the official added.Station to keep tab on effluent dischargeEven though the administration and the municipal corporation claim to have closed all but three sewage outlets discharging effluents in the choe, the monitoring stations will keep a tab if any such effluent is discharged.In a report submitted with the NGT on November 2, the CPCC had highlighted six locations where sewage was still being discharged in the two rivulets, with four points in Sukhna choe and two in N-choe.“The department concerned will get live updates if the pollution levels increase over the permissible levels. The entire process will be monitored online,” the official said.The system will monitor the pH value, the biological oxygen demand (BOD) and chemical oxygen demand (COD) of water. “The station will be installed on the choe near the Mohali border, because when water enters there from Chandigarh, it will be to ensure that water is not contaminated from Chandigarh,” said the official.The N-choe passes through several gardens in the city, and is flooded during the rainy season. It enters Kajehri, Mohali, after passing through the Leisure Valley. The UT official said the people will not have to face foul smell anymore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-monitoring-station-on-seasonal-rivulet-n-choe-to-be-installed-by-november-20/story-Z6isEhaB693L9iIyknrmtI.html
04-11-2020||City||Man jumps before train in Dera Bassi||A man in his 30s ended his life by jumping in front of a special train run by the Railways to transport essential items in Dera Bassi on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday, GRP said. . Ghaggar police post in-charge ASI Rajinder Singh Dhillon said the loco driver in a memo reported to the GRP that he saw a person hurriedly lying down on tracks while the train was approaching a rail over bridge near Ghaggar river. ASI Dhillon said the man was wearing a black leather jacket and blue denims. The GRP did not find any ID in his possession. The body has been kept at the Dera Bassi civil hospital and inquest proceedings have been initiated under Section 174 of the CrPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-jumps-before-train-in-dera-bassi/story-UsfTqO0zzDqJcVrnhn4I7L.html
04-11-2020||Chandigarh||Two mishap victims donate organs to 8 recipients at Chandigarh’s PGIMER||The kidneys and corneas of two donors, who lost their lives in road accidents, gave fresh leases of life to four and restored the sight of four others in the last fortnight here at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research.A 45-year-old granthi, Gurinder Singh of Phalsanda Rangran village in Kurukshetra, Haryana, was critically injured in a road accident and was declared brain dead on October 30. After his wife expressed desire to donate multiple organs, the sights of two were restored with the corneas and two others received the kidneys harvested from the donor.Similarly, a 50-year-old man of Dera Bassi fell victim to a road accident on October 14 and was declared brain dead on October 21. The family decided to go for organ donation after they were counselled. Two patients received the donor’s kidneys and two others received the corneas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-mishap-victims-donate-organs-to-8-recipients-at-chandigarh-s-pgimer/story-X7zkw7NDzREjJXLJOXEAaL.html
04-11-2020||Chandigarh||Former Chandigarh senior deputy mayor Shyama Negi dies at 67||Former senior deputy mayor and vice-president of BJP’s Chandigarh unit Shyama Negi died at a private hospital in Panchkula. She was 67. Negi was undergoing treatment for pneumonia. She is survived by three children -- one son and two daughters.Negi hadn’t been keeping well since she lost her eldest son in July this year.Her daughter Anita Negi, who is based in New York, said, “She won many fights, but lost this one.” State BJP chief Arun Sood said, “This is not just her family’s loss, but also of the tricity residents from Uttarakhand. She was an excellent orator and committed to social causes.”BJP councillor Hira Negi, said, “She inspired all people from her home state by her honest social and political work.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/former-chandigarh-senior-deputy-mayor-shyama-negi-dies-at-67/story-OJpMqD3zi6Od0CWWxBLe2I.html
04-11-2020||Chandigarh||Traffic cones installed on cycle tracks in Chandigarh||For the safety of the cyclists in the city, the Chandigarh traffic police have started putting traffic cones to separate cycle tracks from the main roads.For now, the cones have been put on one side of the road besides Sukhna Lake, and they will soon be introduced in other parts of the city.Officiating senior superintendent of police (SSP, traffic) Manoj Kumar Meena said, “The move has been initiated for the safety of the cyclists as vehicles ply even on cycle tracks if they have been marked on the main roads. The move will prevent that and also stop people from parking on the side of the roads.”Deputy superintendent of police (DSP, traffic central) Palak Goel added, “We have used around 60 cones and have installed them at a distance of 100 meters from each other. On the first day, we received an overwhelmingly positive response and so the plan is to continue with this.”DSP Goel said a test of the project will be run in the Central Traffic Division; the roads between Sectors 16 and 17 and between Sectors 15 and 16 will be the next to get the cones in the next few days.Idea shared by city-based cyclists’ groupThe idea came from city-based Cyclegiri group, which had shared it with the SSP on Twitter. Administrator of the group, Akshit Passi, said, “There was a video of Chennai where the cones were being hailed as a cheap way to increase the safety of cyclists. We shared the idea with the traffic police and received a positive response from them.”Passi said the Sukhna Lake road desperately needed an intervention like this: “Many times auto rickshaws and taxis drop off people at the Lake on the roadside. Autos stay parked there, too, encroaching upon the cycle tracks.”A Twitter user, Basanta Raj Kumar, pointed out how cyclists who would earlier cover a large part of the road in the morning were now riding in their designated zones, making the motorists feel safer as well.Road safety activist Harpreet Singh said, “The move is in the right direction. Rather than cones, the traffic police along with the civic authorities can place something permanent there, especially on the roads with high density of cyclists.”In 2019, cyclists made for 10 of the total 104 traffic-related fatalities reported in the city, a slight improvement from 11 cases of 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/traffic-cones-installed-on-cycle-tracks-in-chandigarh/story-RcZqCt6lgYd872jeUpVW8L.html
04-11-2020||Mumbai||Centre objects to Metro-3 shed at Kanjurmarg, calls Maharashtra government decision as unilateral||In what is turning out to be another political tussle between the Central government and state, the former has objected to the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government’s decision to construct the Metro-3 (Colaba-Bandra-Seepz) car shed at Kanjurmarg. While the state maintains the Centre has no claim upon the plot in question, the Centre has demanded work on the plot to stop and described the state’s decision as “improper and unilateral”.On October 12, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had announced that the Metro-3 car shed would be shifted from Aarey Milk Colony to a plot in Kanjurmarg. The car shed would be common to the underground Metro-3 and the overground Metro-6 (Swami Samarth Nagar-Vikhroli). However, in a letter dated October 15, to the Maharashtra chief secretary, the department for the promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT) stated the 102-acre plot for the car shed in Kanjurmarg was handed over by the state to Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) “without following extant procedure”. According to DPIIT, the Centre had filed a writ petition against several salt department lands — including the Kanjurmarg plot — and the decision is pending before Bombay high court. The letter — signed by Dr Guruprasad Mohapatra, secretary, DPIIT — goes on to say, “The improper and unilateral action of the collector and MMRDA has caused severe loss to DPIIT. I would request you to take necessary steps and restrain MMRDA from taking any further steps and to direct [the] collector to withdraw the orders passed in this regard in order to protect the interests of the Government of India.”However, state officials maintain the land belongs to the state government. “The divisional commissioner passed an order in 2018, handing over 49 plots, including the Kanjurmarg land, to the state as the salt department could not provide details of ownership. The order was also endorsed by the state revenue minister,” said a senior state official said, requesting anonymity. The official also added that there is no stay on the land parcel. Barricading and soil testing are already underway at the Kanjurmarg plot. DPIIT’s letter created a political storm on Tuesday. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Ashish Shelar said, “This is an ego battle where Mumbaiites will bear the loss. We had questioned the government on seeking approvals from the salt commissioner on the day it announced its decision.” Senior BJP leader Kirit Somaiya issued a press statement, in which he said MVA’s decision to shift the Metro-3 car shed will increase the project’s cost by ₹5,000 crore and extend the project’s deadline by five years. Somaiya also demanded the state release the report by the Manoj Saunik committee (appointed by MVA in December 2019), which advised against moving the car shed out of Aarey Milk Colony. “Despite filing multiple right-to-information queries, the government is not providing the report. The report must be released,” Somaiya said in his statement.Former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis had earlier tweeted that his government discarded the Kanjurmarg plot as an option because it was under litigation. However, Maharashtra environment minister Aaditya Thackeray said there was no ambiguity about the ownership of the plot and work at the Kanjurmarg site would continue. “The Kanjurmarg land allotted by the Collector to MMRDA for car depot of Metro has always been with govt of Maharashtra as per revenue records. The Collector, Mumbai Suburban, has done due diligence of all land records and all sub-judice matters in all competent courts,” he tweeted. Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said the salt department had not substantiated its claim on the plot in three years. “Now, after work has started at Kanjurmarg, they realised that the land belongs to them. This is not a coincidence. The Narendra Modi government is creating hurdles for the project,” he tweeted. Nationalist Congress Party leader Supriya Sule said, “That land belongs to Maharashtra and the state is utilising it for development works. The Central government is constantly committing the sin of taking away a state’s right.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/centre-objects-to-metro-3-shed-at-kanjurmarg-calls-maharashtra-government-decision-as-unilateral/story-awRngkRJ5ZTxqra7m2LsVK.html
04-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai bike taxi service receives notice from transport authority week after launch||Nearly a week after its launch, the bike taxi mobile application Rapido has been asked to shut its services in the city.The company has been served a notice by the Andheri regional transport office (RTO) office, citing that its operations are illegal.The RTO has asked the company to shut its bike taxi service immediately, stating that the Maharashtra government has not given permission for it to operate.The notice issued to the company states, “The government has not yet given any permission for the two-wheeler taxi service. Therefore, such a service becomes illegal and unlawful. For this reason, you are advised to discontinue the service immediately. Otherwise, it should be noted that legal action will be taken against you as per the provisions of the Motor Vehicle Act.”Rapido’s services were introduced on Friday, at which time the transport commissioner’s (TC) office had not objected to the launch. The company, during the launch, had claimed that permissions for operating within the city had been given by the Maharashtra government.The RTO has given seven days to the company to respond and have warned of action.Transport commissioner Avinash Dhakane did not respond to calls or messages of Hindustan Times, nor did Rapido respond to requests for comment.The bike taxi service offered 2,000 two-wheeler taxis across in the city. The fare of the bike taxis was priced at ₹6 per kilometre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-bike-taxi-service-receives-notice-from-transport-authority-week-after-launch/story-OYgVTBnj5I3Nm4GMObkDaM.html
04-11-2020||Mumbai||SSR case: Mumbai police identify 50k more fake social media accounts created to defame state govt||Soon after Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, many social media accounts surfaced and started trending negative sentiments against the Maharashtra government, Mumbai Police and even maligned the image of commissioner of police, Param Bir Singh. Mumbai Police in their investigation have found 50,000 more such social media accounts used for defaming police and the government. Police said the numbers of such fake accounts have now crossed over 1.5 lakh. The accused used a paid program and proxy servers to remain anonymous and divert eyes of law enforcement agencies. In a press release, the police said that many accounts trended negative sentiments about state government, Mumbai Police and the Commissioner of Police using different hashtags. Many fake Twitter accounts were created by impersonating popular personalities like Bollywood actress Raveena Tandon.“During the investigation, we found that these fake accounts are controlled by a “BOT”. A single BOT program, which is a commercial tool and used for negative trending, has the power of 500 tweets/retweets per request and a huge capacity of 5 million tweets per month. These are paid programs which have the power to tweet in any language and can be executed from any part of the world using proxy server to remain anonymous,” the release stated.Also read: China to change school curriculum to add positive Covid-19 narrativeAccording to the release, a team of cyber and forensic experts submitted the report. The report has been generated using artificial intelligence and machine learning for the analysis of hashtags and related accounts which were created or surfaced between June 2020 and October 2020 to trend against dignified personalities.A team of cyber experts found more 1.5 lakh accounts during the technical investigation. Almost 80 percent of these accounts were suspicious as they were majorly making negative tweets and comments and their activities surprisingly showcased a drastic leap in the number of tweets per day, number of followers, a feat quite difficult for a genuine individual user to achieve. “At present, many accounts are trying to disappear. Many of them are deleting the negative posts, comments and tweets to evade the investigation process. A major percentage of the accounts are operating outside India in countries like China, Panama and Nepal,” the release added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-mumbai-police-identify-50k-more-fake-social-media-accounts-created-to-defame-state-govt/story-s8xPwwyVcW7vYIG3couk6J.html
04-11-2020||City||Labourer’s arm crushed at waste disposal plant in Panchkula’s Sector 23, inquiry marked||The municipal commissioner on Tuesday marked an inquiry into an accident at the waste disposal plant in Sector 23 after a 19-year-old labourer’s right arm was crushed at the plant.The victim, Deepak of Majri, was employed by a private company. Rohit, a co-worker, who was standing next to Deepak, said: “He was taking out garbage from the belt when his hand slipped into the roller and got crushed.”RK Singh, MC commissioner, said: “After inspection of the dumping site, I was sitting inside the room checking records when the accident happened.”Singh said that the injured was rushed to a hospital, where he is undergoing treatment and an inquiry has been marked in the matter “to fix responsibility”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/labourer-s-arm-crushed-at-waste-disposal-plant-in-panchkula-s-sector-23-inquiry-marked/story-18m18o0IRnCc74vMpL9iDI.html
04-11-2020||Mumbai||Metro-3 car shed: Centre lost ownership claim of Kanjurmarg plot before various revenue tribunals||Officials from the state revenue department said the Centre had lost ownership of the plot for the proposed Metro car shed at Kanjurmarg before several tribunals set up under the revenue department. The Bharatiya Janata Party-led Central government and the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra have been at loggerheads over the plot since chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced the car shed would be shifted out of Aarey Milk Colony to Kanjurmarg. Since Thackeray announced the decision to construct a common car shed for Metro-3 (Colaba-Bandra-Seepz) and Metro-6 (Swami Samarth Nagar-Vikhroli) on October 12, BJP has criticised the move and pointed out that this change will increase the cost of the project. In a recent development, the department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT) has said the Centre has a claim on the Kanjurmarg land parcel and the state should not have transferred the land to Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), which is the nodal authority for the Metro. However, state officials say there is no ambiguity regarding the ownership of the Kanjurmarg plot. According to the state revenue department, the final decision on this issue was passed in 2018 by the then revenue minister and current BJP state president for Maharashtra, Chandrakant Patil.A senior revenue officer, requesting anonymity, said, “Their [the Centre’s] claim of ownership of 1,464 acres at Kanjurmarg was rejected by different tribunals of the revenue department, such as tehsildar, sub-divisional officer, additional collector and additional divisional commissioner. Later, the Centre filed an appeal before the revenue minister [Chandrakant Patil], who has quasi-judicial powers. After hearing both sides, Patil on November 1, 2018, had rejected the Centre’s claim and ordered that the plot is owned by the state government.”Patil didn’t respond to HT’s calls and messages.According to the letter sent to the Maharashtra chief secretary by DPIIT, which is a Central government department under the ministry of commerce and industry, the state’s decision to transfer the Kanjurmarg plot to MMRDA was “improper and unilateral”. DPIIT has said the question of the land parcel’s ownership is sub judice as the Centre had filed a writ petition in Bombay high court (HC) against the then state revenue minister’s order.Nitin Kareer, additional chief secretary, revenue department, said HC has not issued any stay on the Kanjurmarg land parcel.“The Centre has lost the case before all the courts as they have confirmed the ownership of the state government in their judgments. The same was mentioned in Centre’s letter as well, which we have received only on November 2. We are preparing our response to the objections raised by them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/metro-3-car-shed-centre-lost-ownership-claim-of-kanjurmarg-plot-before-various-revenue-tribunals/story-26X7Mck02rhGN09Lj3s9ZO.html
04-11-2020||Mumbai||BJP MLA files complaint against actor Amitabh Bachchan over question on quiz show||A legislator from the Maharashtra unit of the BJP has approached Latur police seeking action against actor Amitabh Bachchan and Sony Television Network for “hurting the sentiments of Hindus, and creating divide between Hindus and Buddhists.”During the October 30 episode of Kaun Banega Crorepati? host Bachchan posed a question about which scripture was burnt by Dr BR Ambedkar and his followers on December 25, 1927. One of the options was Manusmriti (the others were Vishnu Puran, Bhagvat Gita and Rigved). After participants, social activist Bezwada Wilson and actor Anup Soni picked the right answer, Bachchan said, “Ambedkar condemned the ancient Hindu text Manusmriti” that ideologically justified “discrimination and untouchability and burned its copies”.  To be sure, the questions and comments are scripted by the show’s producers, not Bachchan.The question led to outrage and, on Tuesday, the MLA from Ausa in Latur, Abhimanyu Pawar, submitted a complaint to the police on Tuesday. “All the four options were related to the Hindu religion and it establishes that it was a deliberate attempt to hurt their sentiments,” he said. The MLA also stated, “KBC has tried to create friction between Hindus and Buddhists by reviving the old memories about Dr Ambedkar’s bitter remarks against the Hindu religion, Manusmriti and his religious differences.” Dr Ambedkar along with his lakhs of followers converted to Buddhism on October 14, 1956. Latur SP Nikhil Pingle said, “We will decide on the sections to apply and whether to file an FIR. It may take couple of more days.” Spokespersons for Sony and Bachchan did not respond to requests for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bjp-mla-files-complaint-against-actor-amitabh-bachchan-over-question-on-quiz-show/story-g8K2OqLFrtNkXF4efynBeP.html
04-11-2020||Mumbai||To reduce pollution, reserve Mumbai’s major roads for cyclists once a week: Mayor Kishori Pednekar||To reduce pollution in the financial capital, Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar has suggested reserving major roads once a week only for cycling. Pednekar said that multiple government agencies would have to coordinate to implement this initiative. The suggestion was made during the road safety committee meeting chaired by member of Parliament (MP) Arvind Sawant on Tuesday.“There is a need to encourage cycling in the city. All government agencies should be working in tandem to ensure that cycling gets equal importance in road transport,” said Pednekar.Sawant supported the mayor’s proposal. “If not for the entire day, at least a few hours should be reserved for cycling, during which time no motorised transport should be allowed,” he said.Meanwhile, the MP directed the traffic police department to initiate action against illegal parking of two-wheelers and four-wheelers across the city. “The illegal parking menace has increased, creating huge traffic jams in several parts of the city. This should be disciplined,” Sawant said.The road safety committee was formed by the Centre in 2018 and holds meetings every three months. Key issues regarding illegal parking menace, vehicular pollution, road accidents and pedestrianisation were discussed at the meeting. Jitendra Gupta, member of Mumbai Transport Forum, said, “It is not feasible to stop motorised transport on roads as it will hamper the city’s economy at such a crucial time. The mayor should focus on the existing cycle track project which has been delayed for some time now. Also, this move should be data-driven and not just ideas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/to-reduce-pollution-reserve-mumbai-s-major-roads-for-cyclists-once-a-week-mayor-kishori-pednekar/story-O4Omu8it3rs1M8LZlAXO0K.html
04-11-2020||Chandigarh||Custodial rape charge: HC seeks reply from Haryana govt over plea by women inmates’ guardian||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday sought a response from the Haryana government on the plea of a Sonepat woman seeking medical examination of her daughter and niece, who according to her were gangraped by cops in police custody, by a medical board constituted out of the state.The high court bench of justice Manjari Nehru Kaul has sought the response by November 16.As per the plea, the duo was booked on June 30 in connection with the murder of two policemen and lodged in the Karnal central jail. One of the two being a juvenile was transferred to a correction home. The plaintiff also alleged that one Amit, who was also accused in the same case, was eliminated by the police in a fake counter.The petitioner said that one day her daughter and niece had gone to meet Amit in Karnal when two cops, who were in a drunken state, misbehaved with them. This resulted in a fight between the cops and Amit and the cops got injured. When the girls came to know of the cops’ murder, the duo themselves came forward and went to the police, but they were booked in the murder case instead and eliminated Amit, the plea alleges, further accusing that the duo were raped by 10-12 cops in custody.It has been alleged that both the women require immediate medical attention and treatment, which is being denied to them by the authorities concerned. Hence, directions need to be issued in this regard. Representations have been moved at different levels but to no avail, the plea alleges.The Sonepat woman has also sought permission to meet her daughter and niece, which is being denied to her since July. The petitioner said she met the two briefly on July 18, when the survivor’s told her that 10-12 policemen had raped and molested them. The petitioner has not been allowed to meet the duo ever since, she said adding that an FIR was registered in this regard only after the intervention of Haryana Women Commission on July 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/custodial-rape-charge-hc-seeks-reply-from-haryana-govt-over-plea-by-women-inmates-guardian/story-iY9uBWds4TfZy2EMOWSHRP.html
04-11-2020||Kolkata||EC sets the ball rolling for Bengal polls in 2021; calls all-party meeting||The Election Commission of India has called an all-party meeting in West Bengal on Monday to set the ball rolling for the crucial 2021 assembly polls in the state.The chief electoral officer of West Bengal is expected to hold another meeting with district officials on the next day.“There are chances that representatives of the ECI from Delhi will also be present in the virtual meeting with district officials on November 10. The main objective is to take stock and assess the poll preparedness in the times of pandemic,” said a senior official.With the Bihar elections coming to an end by the end of this week, the ECI is now gradually shifting its focus towards Bengal where assembly polls are expected in the next few months.Also read: Army chief off to Nepal, visit expected to ease ties after border row“Groundwork is going on. We now have a model (Bihar) in front of us and the experiences we gather in Bihar will help us in holding the polls in Bengal. Pandemic will be a big challenge this year apart from the other challenges of holding a free and fair elections,” said an official of the poll panel.The official said that the maximum number of voters in a booth would be capped keeping in mind the Covid-19 situation and steps to restructure booths were already underway.While the ruling Trinamool Congress, led by its supremo Mamata Banerjee, would be fighting for its third term, the BJP, which has made impressive gains in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls clinching 18 of the 42 seats, is now eyeing the West Bengal assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/ec-sets-the-ball-rolling-for-bengal-polls-in-2021-calls-all-party-meeting/story-x60ccoaUeyshQW2zVbtWDM.html
04-11-2020||City||SAD, BJP file 41 objections to delimitation of wards in Mohali||Former councillors from both Shiromani Akali Dal and Bharatiya Janata Party have filed 41 objections to the delimitation of wards in Mohali as 70% seats held by them in the previous municipal corporation House have either been recarved or reserved or dereserved to their detriment ahead of the upcoming civic body elections.In most of the objections, the councillors have accused the ruling Congress government in Punjab of acting like a dictator and carrying out delimitation to benefit its party councillors. However, municipal commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg rubbished all objections, stating that the delimitation was done as per rules and regulations of the state government. “The objections have been sent to the director, local bodies, who will take the final call,” he said.Former Akali councillor Parminder Singh Sohana, in his objections, questioned as to why the names of mayor or deputy mayor were not included in the delimitation board. “It clearly states that the intention of the Congress was not clean,” he said.Former BJP councillor Rajinder Sharma alleged delimitation was not done as per rules, and its only purpose was to benefit Congress councillors.Meanwhile, former Congress councillor Kuljeet Singh Bedi, who was also a member of the delimitation board, said: “Both SAD and BJP are making unnecessary hue and cry, as they know they are going to lose the elections badly. Everything has been done as per rules.”In fact, on the plea of five former councillors, the Punjab and Haryana high court on November 1 had put the Punjab government and Mohali administration on notice. The plea sought quashing of the July 31 notification through which the delimitation board was constituted as well as the October 28 notification that subsequently recarved the wards.The delimitation board was constituted by the local bodies department to redraw boundaries of wards based on the recent census. The population under the MC’s jurisdiction has gone up from 1.64 lakh to 1.87 lakh since the last delimitation.In the first MC elections held in Mohali in 2015, the Congress had won from 15 wards and the SAD-BJP alliance got 23 seats. The Azad group, led by Kulwant Singh, won from 10 while two seats went to Independents.With the support of his group besides 14 Congress councillors and the two Independents, Kulwant was elected Mohali’s first mayor in August 2015. Two years later, the Azad group merged into the SAD. In the upcoming elections, the SAD and BJP will be contesting separately after their alliance at the Centre broke.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sad-bjp-file-41-objections-to-delimitation-of-wards-in-mohali/story-IGX5hLtCDal7hJYD7O1gtI.html
04-11-2020||City||Panchkula ACP among 16 cops injured as protesting villagers turn violent||Sixteen cops, including ACP Raj Kumar, were injured — six of them gravely — after being attacked by protesters at Rattewali village, 20km from Panchkula district headquarters, on Tuesday.The locals, who had blocked a road to stop mining in the area, damaged government vehicles and pelted stones at the police team, which had gone there to disperse them.“The government has allotted mining contract in Rattewali, but some miscreants had blocked the way for the past few days and were also obstructing vehicular movement,” said ACP Raj Kumar. After a dialogue failed on October 31, the protesters were issued a notice to vacate the area, but they remained adamant.Around noon, a police team along with duty magistrate Sunil Jakhara went to the spot to disperse the crowd. “At 1:30pm, they started pelting stones at us, and damaged an ambulance, my official vehicle and three other government vehicles. One of them even fired in the air. Initially there were around 120 of them, but their number swelled soon,” said the ACP.“The crowd got too violent within minutes. We ran towards the fields to save ourselves,” said home guard Ankit Kumar. Among others, ACP’s gunman Sonu got a severe injury on his right eye and head. DCP Mohit Handa said the cops were fully prepared but exercised self-restraint. A case of attempt to murder besides under other relevant sections has been registered against the protesters, he said, adding that 14 of them have been rounded up. “Police teams have been deployed to keep the situation under control,” he said.What mining officer, village sarpanch sayAccording to mining officer Omdut Sharma 45 hectares of riverbed area was auctioned to a Jharkhand company in 2017. Mining started in September, after environmental clearance and other formalities.As villagers protested on September 26, highlighting irregularities, a panel probed the matter and the firm was fined ₹53 lakh for digging more than the permissible limit. The contractor deposited ₹26 lakh on October 30, but the villagers were still not relenting.Sarpanch Roki Ram said the contractor has been allowed to resume digging without taking villagers into confidence, even as their fields are just next to the mining site. “Also, earlier some percentage of the revenue was shared with the panchayat or farmers, but this time we have got nothing,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-acp-among-16-cops-injured-as-protesting-villagers-turn-violent/story-WDSxRVWXherpqKICQL9pZK.html
04-11-2020||Delhi||Dehi’s ISBTs reopen, 1542 buses come on Day 1; social distancing norms go for a toss||As interstate bus services resumed in Delhi after more than seven months, the scene at the city’s two major bus terminals (ISBTs), at Kashmere Gate and Anand Vihar, were in stark contrast. While Kashmere Gate had mostly all Covid-19 safety mechanisms in place, the latter was in disarray.On Day 1, 542 interstate buses carrying over 20,000 passengers arrived in the Capital through the three ISBTs (the third of which is at Sarai Kale Khan) till 5.30 pm. Passengers arrived from Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand, with some returning to the city for work, and many others travelling to celebrate Diwali with their friends and family.The Kashmere Gate ISBT saw a fair rush in the morning, with long queues at the entry gate as passengers were thermally screened and frisked using contactless devices, while staff members sanitised luggage inside the premises. Yet, social distancing norms were often thrown to the wind as people would rush in a horde, jostling to either get entry to the terminal, collect their luggage or to buy a ticket. Despite a properly designed waiting area, people crowded the narrow bus bays, even while drivers waited patiently till all the seats were occupied.Kavalpreet Kaur, who arrived at Kashmere Gate ISBT from Punjab on Tuesday morning pointed out that the terminal did not have any Covid-19 testing centre or camp for those who voluntarily wanted to get themselves checked.“I travelled all night in a bus that was full of passengers. A Covid testing centre here would not just help me, but also the city administration to identify and quarantine those who have the infection,” she said.Apart from a few security guards at the entry gate, Kashmere Gate ISBT had absolutely no police officer, district official or civil defence volunteer to warn or prosecute violators of Covid-19 norms. The situation was much worse at the other two ISBTs, especially at Anand Vihar, which shares its border with Uttar Pradesh. On Tuesday, the Anand Vihar ISBT received 257 interstate buses, followed by 242 buses in Kashmere Gate and 43 buses at Sarai Kale Khan.Despite being host to the most passengers, the Anand Vihar ISBT was short of proper arrangements. Four people were deployed for screening and sanitisation, two of who were deployed to check the temperatures of only the driver and conductor, and two others who sanitised buses — mostly from the outside. The Anand Vihar terminal had no facilities to thermally screening passengers, or to sanitise their luggage. It also did not have any sanitiser spray available for public-use. Female passengers, said they were especially hassled, saying the washroom was too dirty to use.Several also complained about passengers’ displaying a lack of hygiene.Yadunath Singh, and his family were boarding a bus from Anand Vihar ISBT, headed for his hometown in Ram Nagar, Uttarakhand, to celebrate Diwali.“I am fed up of people spitting here. This problem is peculiar to Anand Vihar ISBT. Don’t people know that Covid-19 spreads from droplets? There is not a single official to prosecute violators. While walking around the ISBT, most passengers had their masks either on their chin or hanging from their ears,” said an angry Singh.The testing centre, located between the bus terminal and Metro station, was not conducting any Covid-19 tests when HT visited the facility at 4pm. A district official deployed to oversee testing there said they wrapped up by 3.30pm. “We do 1,000-2,000 tests daily, most of which are performed using the rapid antigen method. The most RT-PCR tests we have conducted at this facility are around 300 on a single day. Very few have tested positive so far, but we immediately send those who do to the Covid Care Centre at Akshardham on an ambulance,” said an official deployed there. KK Dahiya, managing director of the Delhi Transport Infrastructure Development Corporation (DTIDC) Limited that manages and operates all the ISBTs, said people are being de-boarded at the entry gate of the ISBTs, from where they are being allowed to leave for their respective destinations in the city. “There was no crowding observed on day one, as the number of buses allowed to enter the terminal has been slashed to 50% until November 15. Moreover, it was the first day, so fewer buses arrived. The number will gradually go up,” Dahiya said. Before the onset of the pandemic, the three ISBTs would witness a combined footfall of over 250,000 every day. On a daily basis, there were 3,500 trips of interstate buses and 2,000 trips of local buses.According to the SOP prepared by the Delhi government, interstate buses have to be sanitised by the respective depots of bus operators at the point of origin and before departure from the respective ISBT. The conductors or the drivers of interstate buses were also to submit a certificate issued by the respective depot of the bus being thoroughly sanitised, but only five such certificates of the 257 buses that arrived at Anand Vihar were submitted at the terminal. The story was same for the other two terminals as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehi-s-isbts-reopen-1542-buses-come-on-day-1-social-distancing-norms-go-for-a-toss/story-J6WO9Dg2zEWWfuiASw4xYJ.html
04-11-2020||Delhi||Marked absent, given zero: Final-year students sweat over ‘faulty’ DU results of online exams||Delhi University’s online open-book exams have run into a fresh round of opposition, with several final-year undergraduate students, who recently received their results, alleging that they were either marked absent, or given zero entirely, outcomes which they said would throw their futures into doubt.The varsity’s decision to conduct open-book exams online as a one-time measure in view of the pandemic was severely controversial, and met with staunch opposition from several students and faculty members. Despite this, online OBE were held for the university’s 260,000 final-year UG and PG students between August 10 and 31.University officials said they are looking to resolve students’ complaints within three days of them being filed.Yogendra Jaiswal, a student of Rajdhani College a BCom (Hons) student said he was given zero in two subjects, results that he said were “not possible”. “How can one get a zero in the open book format where we were allowed to use books? I have already taken admission in an MBA programme in a private institute in Pune and my family also took a bank loan of ₹16 lakh for my higher education. I have to submit my final-year mark sheets by November 10. They won’t allow me to join with this result.”Jaiswal visited his college on Tuesday, and was asked to submit a request for re-evaluation. “I do not know how much time the university will take to declare the results. I am extremely anxious about my future,” he said.RD Sharma, the college’s nodal officer to deal with OBE matters, said Jaiswal’s is not an isolated case in Rajdhani College. “We have received complaints of around 14-15 students who have either been marked absent or been given zero marks in some subjects. We have around five such cases in B Com (Hons) itself. We have contacted the University’s examination branch, which has asked us to forward the applications to them with the respective answer scripts,” he said.During the exams, students were given four hours to download question papers from the DU examination portal, complete the test, scan and upload the answer scripts. Students were also given an option to email the answer scripts to their college. Teachers evaluated these exam scripts online. Officials at other colleges said they have been receiving similar complaints from students. Binoy Bhushan, nodal officer at Aryabhatta College, said he has received at least 60 such complaints over the past week. “The students even have the acknowledgment slips issued to them by the University’s examination portal after they submitted their answer scripts and have still been marked absent in those subjects,” he said. Ramjas College’s nodal officer Ritu Sharma said they have received over 50 such complaints.“The complaints are from students who have either been marked absent or received a zero in some subjects. Students are distressed. Many of them have to apply for Masters courses, and deadlines to submit final results and provisional certificates of having qualified the undergraduate exams are fast approaching,” she said.At Hindu College, at least 25 students have been marked absent in one or more subjects despite appearing in the exams. College nodal officer KK Kaul said, “The University should issue a notification asking all other higher education institutions to extend the dates of submission of undergraduate results otherwise many students will miss out on their opportunities.” The University’s dean of examinations DS Rawat said the department is trying to resolve the complaints within three days of receiving them. “Many students have not entered their details, including paper code or roll number properly on the paper before scanning and sending it. Some of them have also sent the answers scripts to multiple email addresses. That’s why these issues are arising. We are taking note of each and every complaint and trying to resolve it,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/marked-absent-given-zero-final-year-students-sweat-over-faulty-du-results-of-online-exams/story-tWJ7Uft2iBp0SJrk0GCoJL.html
04-11-2020||Delhi||Manish Sisodia reviews the progress of coding program in govt schools||Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia Tuesday interacted with students and teachers of government schools to review the progress of the coding program, which was recently introduced in over 1,000 schools in partnership with Hindustan Times (HT).Under the HT Codeathon program, as many as 12,469 students from about 1,000 Delhi government schools are being trained in computer coding and programming skills. Of them, 1,018 students have already completed five chapters within a fortnight of the launch, said the education minister’s office in a statement released on Tuesday. The program was launched on October 8. Lauding the achievements of students, Sisodia said, “It is my dream to see our students create their own companies like Google, and watch them take it worldwide. Coding is giving these students the wings to fly from an early stage of schooling.”During their interaction with Sisodia, students also shared their experiences of being part of the program. Simran, a student of a government school in Civil Lines, who has created an adventure game, said, “Until now, I’ve been playing games created by other developers. But now I’ve got the chance to create my own game.” Bhaskar, a student of Class 9 at the Government Boys Senior Secondary School in Mahipalpur, said, “I had only heard of coding but now I have an actual chance to learn it.” He has also created a WhatsApp group so he can help other students to learn computer coding. Madhulika Pandey, a teacher at Govt Co-ed Sarvodaya Vidyalaya, Dwarka Sector 13, said, “These students, who didn’t even know to log in to a system until last month, are now creating their own programs. It’s a matter of great pride for me that I’m able to see them achieve so much in so little time. It’s heartening to see them improve so much every single day.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sisodia-reviews-the-progress-of-coding-program-in-govt-schools/story-B0pQVdUy4SZXmyQkKxk9zJ.html
04-11-2020||Delhi||Nursing staff of Valmiki hospital join ongoing stir over unpaid salaries||The 160-strong nursing staff of Valmiki Infectious Disease Hospital, run by North Delhi Municipal Corporation (North DMC), Tuesday joined the ongoing strike by health workers over non-payment of salaries for the past three to four months. The contractual nursing staff at Kasturba Hospital and Hindu Rao Hospital Tuesday announced that they, too, will join strike from November 5 (Thursday) if their demand for the immediate release of pending salaries is not met. The regular nursing staff of Kasturba hospital, Hindu Rao hospital, Girdharilal Maternity hospital, Rajan Babu TB hospital are already on an indefinite strike since Monday. All these hospitals are under the North DMC.BL Sharma, president, Kasturba Hospital Nurses Union, said the nursing staff of Valmiki hospital has also joined the strike over non-payment of salaries. “It is unfortunate that health workers have to go on an indefinite strike during a pandemic, but the civic body’s apathy towards us has compelled us to do so. They should clear three months’ pending salaries of nurses and four months’ pending salaries of other paramedic employees immediately,” Sharma said. Indu Jamwal, president, Hindu Rao Hospital Nurses Union, said until now, only permanent nurses and other health workers were on strike but from Tuesday, even contractual nursing staff have joined the stir. “Contractual nursing staff at Hindu Rao and Kasturba hospitals, who were working until now, will join our indefinite strike from November 5. They have also not been paid for four months. We will not call off our strike until our dues are cleared,” she said. Nurses at hospitals across north corporation have not been paid salaries for the months of August, September and October while other paramedic employees have not been given salaries since June 2020. Jai Prakash, mayor, North Delhi Municipal Corporation, said, “We are trying to arrange funds so that we can pay at least two months’ salary to the agitating employees by Diwali. I appeal to the health workers that they call off their strike.”Doctors in north corporation-run hospitals had also gone on strike last month over non-payment of salaries and they withdrew the agitation only after the corporation paid their salaries till September. The nursing and other auxillary staff have remained unpaid, a nursing staff on strike said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/nursing-staff-of-valmiki-hospital-join-ongoing-stir-over-unpaid-salaries/story-VaDa9MGkvY4Yt3nbufz4dM.html
04-11-2020||Delhi||Taxi driver held for sexually assaulting, strangling 3-year-old child in Burari||A 32-year-old private taxi driver was arrested for allegedly sexually assaulting and murdering the three-year-old son of a female friend in north Delhi’s Burari on Thursday night, police said on Tuesday. The driver was arrested on Saturday, two days after the crime came to light, and has been sent to jail, they said. The police said the woman is a beautician and lives with her husband at their home in outer Delhi’s Mangolpuri. Apart from Delhi-NCR cities, the woman visits other states for professional purposes. She knew the taxi driver for the past six-seven months, as she often hired his cab for outstation visits. On October 20, the woman left the home with her three children after an altercation with her husband. She asked the taxi driver to pick them up in his cab and went to her parental home in Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahr, said a senior police officer, who did not want to be named. According to the officer, on October 28, the woman and her children reached Jaipur in his taxi from Bulandshahr for some work. They all returned to Delhi on October 29. The woman chose to stay at the taxi driver’s home with her children because of the argument she had with her husband, the officer said. In the evening, the woman’s three-year-old son was constantly crying when the driver took the child out for a drive in order to comfort him, her permission, police said. “Around 10 pm, he returned with the unconscious child. There were bruises on the body. When the woman asked him, he tried to mislead her, saying it could be because of reaction to some medicine she had been administering to her son,” the officer said, quoting the woman’s statement. The woman rushed her child to a nearby government in his taxi. After examining the child, the doctors declared him brought dead and told her about the possibility of a sexual assault. The hospital authorities informed the police. “When the woman confronted the taxi driver, he fled. A case of murder and sodomy was registered at the Burari police station. He was caught on Saturday,” the officer added. The police officer said the man confessed and said he sexually assaulted the child in the taxi at an isolated place and strangled him to death to avoid getting identified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/taxi-driver-held-for-sexually-assaulting-and-strangling-three-year-old-child-in-burari/story-xkpGzPDCGSebePQLdZqrPJ.html
04-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro puts up first U-girders for Phase 4 corridor||The construction work of Delhi Metro’s Phase 4 is picking up pace despite the constraints due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) Tuesday installed the U girders on the Janakpuri West to RK Ashram Marg corridor.U girders, DMRC officials said, is an important component of the elevated viaduct on which the tracks will be laid. The U girder was erected near the Kali Mata temple, between the upcoming Pushpanjali and Deepali Chowk Metro stations, along the Outer Ring Road.Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communications, DMRC, said, “This is a standard span with twin U girders of 28 metres length each in one span and the total weight of one U girder is approximately 160 MT. This is a major milestone for the DMRC, as despite several constraints due to the ongoing pandemic, this important component of the construction work could be started. The casting of the U girders was started at the casting yard in Mundka in June earlier this year.”He added, “Despite issues such as unavailability of adequate labour, the DMRC is moving ahead with the construction work on all the three corridors that have been approved so far, under Metro Phase 4.” A total of 780 such U girders are planned to be installed on this corridor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/metro-puts-up-first-u-girders-for-phase-4-corridor/story-Zyi6YUMbkbKNTgv1GFEEjK.html
04-11-2020||Chandigarh||Sero survey: Virus prevalence high in homemakers in Haryana||The second round of serological survey conducted by the Haryana health department has revealed that spread of coronavirus in the economically active population was in the range of 13.9% to 15.4%. About 14.8% population was found infected in the second round of survey as against 8% two months ago. The virus transmission was found the highest in the 38-47 (3,387 blood samples) and 48-57 (2,715 samples) age groups at 15.6% and 15.4% respectively.The survey was conducted to determine the extent of coronavirus spread and measure the proportion of population exposed to infection including asymptomatic individuals. Director general health services, Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), Dr Usha Gupta said there was not much difference in the sero-positivity rate of active population in the state. Dr Gupta said it indicated that the virus spread was uniform among the active age groups. While 14.8% women were found having Covid-19 antibodies during the serological survey, the number of housewives tested for antibodies constituted a majority 45% of the 16,512 persons tested. Also, 53% women participants as against 47% men were tested during the survey. In terms of fatalities, housewives accounted for a higher 11% deaths. Dr Gupta said the probability of number of housewives being infected in big numbers indicated spread in households as well as exposure to vegetable vendors leading to infection. High number of asymptomatic patients The health authorities took 91% blood samples from people who did not have any comorbidity (an existing medical condition) for conducting the serological survey. “This indicates that the number of infected asymptomatic persons is sizeable. Since they did not have comorbidities, they did not develop any medical complication due to the virus infection,” a health official said. As per the findings of the survey, 61% participants wore mask during outing or visits of outsiders to their homes. Majority of the participants in Gurugram, Bhiwani, Kurukshetra, Sirsa, Rewari, Jhajjar wore a mask when going out or during visits by the guests. However, the number of mask wearing individuals was comparatively lower in Yamunanagar, Kaithal, Faridabad, Nuh, and Fatehabad districts, the report said. It also said that 61% participants were found to be following social distancing norms. People in Bhiwani, Gurugram, Kurukshetra, Sirsa and Rewari maintained better social distancing in comparison to the Faridabad, Nuh and Fatehabad districts while going out. Dr. Gupta said 720 samples were collected from each of the 22 districts covering both urban and rural population.A stratified multi-stage random sampling technique was used by selecting 12 rural and four urban clusters randomly for taking samples. “Blood samples were collected from selected individuals after taking written consent and then their sera were tested for immunoglobulin anti-bodies using ELISA test kit approved by ICMR,” she||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sero-survey-virus-prevalence-high-in-homemakers-in-haryana/story-6grIAnUdkwC5moTIFQeTEO.html
04-11-2020||Chandigarh||Bad air quality can increase Covid-19 fatalities, warns UT health department||Amid the deteriorating air quality, the Chandigarh health department has warned against bursting of firecrackers, which experts warned will increase the Covid-related complications, including fatalities. “Several studies conducted in Italy and the US have shown that high levels of air pollution are linked to higher rates of mortality due to Covid-19. Reports have also shown that 15% of the corona-related deaths are due to air pollution and the elderly and persons with comorbidities are at the greater risk,” the health department said. The constant threat of the second surge of Covid-19 looming large, clubbed with air pollution caused by bursting of crackers and fireworks, can be dangerous for the people with compromised lungs, the department has said. It further added that as winters set in, dry air could aggravate breathing difficulties, especially among those suffering from lung ailments. “If we add smoke to the ambient air by bursting crackers, then it could turn into a recipe for disaster. The poisonous gas that is emitted from crackers and fireworks is particularly dangerous for people who are suffering from coronavirus, whether in hospital or in quarantine. Even those who have recovered from the infection will become vulnerable if we do not restrain ourselves this Diwali,” the advisory stated. Against the 106 deaths in September, the number of fatalities has dropped to 62 in the month of October. As many as 228 people have lost their lives due to Covid-19 so far in Chandigarh. Director, health services, Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, advised that people should stay indoors and refrain from bursting firecrackers during the festival season in order to prevent air pollution and protect the elderly and people with comorbidities. “Public cooperation will help in keeping the transmission of Covid-19 under control and decrease the risk of mortality in the coming months,” the department has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bad-air-quality-can-increase-covid-19-fatalities-ut-health-department-warns/story-eHWdgMXNerxKC8XZiv1qnM.html
04-11-2020||Chandigarh||Pending CAS interviews: Panjab University teachers’ body stages protest outside V-C’s residence||The members of the Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) on Tuesday staged a protest outside the campus residence of vice-chancellor Raj Kumar against the pending interviews of the promotion of teachers under the Career Advancement Scheme (CAS). The teachers’ body also held a meeting of its executive before staging the protest. In the earlier meeting, PUTA had asked the V-C to hand over the schedule of CAS interviews by November 3, 2020. After the protest, the V-C held a meeting with the PUTA executive during which PUTA demanded that a complete schedule of selection committees for all pending cases be handed over to them immediately. According to PUTA, the V-C assured them that a complete schedule had already been prepared for all pending cases according to which all interviews would be done by mid-December. However, the body demanded that the complete schedule be handed over to them by Wednesday otherwise, they would continue to protest. The body also asked the V-C to approach the Punjab government to get clearance for an early implementation of the 7th pay commission. PUTA also took up the issue of unnecessary delay in payment of retirement benefits and payment of interest on the provident fund in the case of senior teachers. The teachers’ body urged the V-C to immediately convene a meeting of the syndicate to resolve the pending issues and demanded that senate polls be held immediately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pending-cas-interviews-panjab-university-s-teachers-body-stages-protest-outside-v-c-s-residence/story-JcNxr85z41UnwvIluaJUEI.html
04-11-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: A creeper that inspires poetry||The famous bougainvillea tree of Lodhi Garden, in Delhi, must now be decked with papery pink flowers—and so must be the many bougainvillaeas of the Parsi Cemetery behind Khan Market. While blinding red poppies recently surfaced in the East of Kailash public park, not far from Nehru Place. Before that, there was the blood of semal trees to be seen across the Delhi region—they have just started to fade. Soon enough, the golden-yellow glow of Amaltas flowers will arrive.It is that time of the year.But who is there to share their pictures on Instagram? Now that we mobile phone photographers are exiled to languish within homes—or at least those of us lucky enough to have a home.The city is under a 21-day-long lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic. There is no knowing how long the daymare might last.A sensitive poet holed up within a flat somewhere in west Delhi’s A Block, Vikas Puri, is feeling the frustration. But Jasbir Chatterjee is resourceful, finding refuge by reliving the memories of MG Road, a place in Gurugram where she used to go to work until late last year.“I can still see in my mind’s eyes those magenta-colored bougainvillaeas outside my then office, and the red poppies, the white champas, the orange gulmohars, and the yellow amaltas... all laid out so nicely on the lovely MG Road—how gorgeous they looked under the morning sun,” recalls Ms Chatterjee, 54. With a day job as a customer care manager in a luxury car showroom, the “poet by hobby” is talking to this reporter on WhatsApp from the isolation of the second-floor apartment that she shares with her husband and daughter.For two years, Ms Chatterjee would make the Metro commute from her home to MG Road in the so-called Millennium City. The morning rush would be super-crowded (crowd?! how one misses the crowd!). Ms Chatterjee was never able to get an empty seat during the two-hour-long shuttle. But it was all worth the trouble—the journey would end in beauty—getting down at MG Road Metro station, exiting out from the staircase and then.... “finally the leisurely walk to the office, as I was rarely late, through the picturesque, tree-lined, flower-filled lane of MG.”That brief stroll was the most poetic element of her daily life shuttling between Delhi and Gurugram, she now feels. “MG Road gave words to the poetry in my soul, I would feel a sense of triumph after being through so many struggles to reach where I was at that point of time, both in my career and personal life.”This reporter, too, has witnessed the beauty in that stretch of MG Road. A pavement there teems with frangipani trees. Dense bunches of white flowers hang down precariously from the branches. The dusty ground would be covered with these flowers, some squashed by the feet of pedestrians.“May God bless those gardeners who toil so hard to make those bits of MG Road look like paradise,” says Ms Chatterjee. On her way back to the Metro station in the evening, “the shadows of the trees and the surrounding skyscrapers had a dream-like aura about them.”Ms Chatterjee now works in an office in Noida. “Sometimes I do spot an occasional bougainvillea around there, the overall surroundings are drab.”Which means that MG Road continues to haunt her. “I wonder how the flowers there are looking like these days, now that there is no one to admire them?”She leaves us with two poems she wrote about that place.Different livesOn a cool, pleasant evening,On MG Road,While a couplehugged each other,Another couple,A pair of crows,Stared into space;Their backs turned towards each other...Official bougainvillaeascall them official bougainvillaeasBecause they live and breatheInside office premises.They add bright, blazing colours,Soul, poetry, innocence, and freshnessTo our working hours.And inspire usTo find joy and happinessIn our own oppressive work lives, the inevitable politics…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-creeper-that-inspires-poetry/story-YmBkyIz0wj6QR6QEMWNaEO.html
04-11-2020||World||Britain to evaluate data for potential coronavirus vaccines to roll out by Dec||The chair of Britain’s coronavirus vaccine task force says data evaluating the efficacy and safety of the two most advanced candidates should be available in early December.Kate Bingham told a Parliamentary committee on Wednesday that data on the two vaccine candidates — developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca and Pfizer and BioNTech — should be available by then.After that, the vaccine candidates will need regulatory approval, Bingham says.“If we get that, we have the possibility of deploying by year end,” she says.Bingham acknowledged despite the government’s earlier estimate there would be 30 million doses of the Oxford vaccine available by September, there only will be about 4 million doses available by the end of the year, due to some manufacturing “hiccups” that have since been resolved. She says there will be about 10 million doses of the Pfizer and BioNTech vaccine.Dr. Robin Shattock, one of the scientists behind another vaccine developed by Imperial College London, says it’s possible several vaccines will be needed to stop the pandemic.“The first vaccines may reach the bar of preventing severe disease, but they may not necessarily block transmission,” he says.Shattock says later vaccines likely will be more potent, but it’s still unclear how long immunity lasts and vaccines “most likely they will need to be boosted.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/britain-to-evaluate-data-for-potential-coronavirus-vaccines-to-roll-out-by-dec/story-EQrADQ54a3EgyZCIFp0KuN.html
04-11-2020||World||Ethiopia nears war as Prime Minister orders military action against regional government||Ethiopia’s Nobel Peace Prize-winning Prime Minister on Wednesday ordered the military to confront the country’s Tigray regional government after he said it carried out a deadly attack on a military base overnight, citing months of “provocation and incitement” and declaring “the last red line has been crossed.”The statement by Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed’s office, and the reported attack by the well-armed Tigray People’s Liberation Front(TPLF), immediately raised concerns that one of Africa’s most populous and powerful countries could plunge back into war. That would send a shock wave through the Horn of Africa and beyond.Addressing the nation on TV, Abiy announced “several martyrs” in the attack in Mekele, the northern Tigray region’s capital, and Dansha town. The Prime Minister said “the end is near” for the regional force, which is based in Ethiopia’s most sensitive region, neighboring Eritrea. The two countries made peace in 2018 after a long border war.The TPLF had been the dominant part of Ethiopia’s governing coalition before Abiy took office in 2018 and announced sweeping political reforms that won him the Nobel last year. Those reforms, however, have opened space for old ethnic and other grievances. The TPLF, feeling marginalized, left the coalition last year. It remains a strong military force, observers say.Ethiopia on Wednesday declared a six-month state of emergency in the Tigray region, saying that “illegal and violent activities within the National Regional State of Tigray are endangering the constitution and constitutional order, public peace and security, specially threatening the country’s sovereignty.”There was no immediate word from the TPLF, and all internet and phone lines were cut in the Tigray region following the announcement. Tigray TV reported that airspace has been closed over the region, and it asserted that the northern command of Ethiopia’s military had defected to the Tigray government. The Prime Minister’s office told The Associated Press the defection report was “not true.”Ethiopia was already stressed by a dispute with Egypt over a massive Ethiopian dam project that has drawn rare attention by President Donald Trump to Africa, and by a multi-layer crisis with the Covid-19 pandemic, deadly ethnic violence and a locust outbreak.Now the greatest test of Abiy’s rule has has come.Tigray officials have objected to the postponement of Ethiopia’s national election, once set for August, because of the coronavirus pandemic, and the extension of Abiy’s time in office.On Sunday, a senior TPLF official, Getachew Reda, told the AP his side will not accept a negotiation with the federal government.“What we need now is a national dialogue, not a negotiation,” he said. The TPLF says the release of detained former officials is one precondition to opening talks.In September, people in Tigray voted in a local election, defying the federal government and increasing political tensions. Last month the federal government moved to send funding for the region to local administrations instead of the regional government, angering TPLF officials.“This war is the worst possible outcome of the tensions that have been brewing,” William Davison, International Crisis Group’s senior analyst for Ethiopia, said Wednesday, urging a ceasefire. “Given Tigray’s relatively strong security position, the conflict may well be protracted and disastrous.”Abiy’s statement asserted that the TPLF attacked a military base in Tigray early Wednesday and attempted to take artillery and other equipment. The statement accused the TPLF of arming and organizing irregular militias.After months of “extreme patience” by the federal government, “a war however cannot be prevented only on the goodwill and decision of one side,” the Prime Minister’s statement said. “The last red line has been crossed with this morning’s attacks and the federal government is therefore forced into a military confrontation” to save the country.Observers have worried for months about the growing tensions and their implications for the long turbulent Horn of Africa region, where Abiy cast himself as a peacemaker shortly after taking office.A report by the United States Institute of Peace said the fragmentation of Ethiopia “would be the largest state collapse in modern history, likely leading to mass interethnic and interreligious conflict ... and a humanitarian and security crisis at the crossroads of Africa and the Middle East on a scale that would overshadow the existing conflicts in South Sudan, Sudan, Somalia, and Yemen.”The international community needs to rally around the idea of national dialogue in Ethiopia, the International Crisis Group warned a week ago.“The alternative, given the country’s multiple and bitter divides, is a potential march to war that would be catastrophic for Africa’s second most populous country and would send shock waves, and refugees, into other Horn of Africa countries as well as across the Mediterranean,” the group wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ethiopia-nears-war-as-prime-minister-orders-military-action-against-regional-government/story-oyj6qxoHjDjhZbXnkFOdwN.html
04-11-2020||World||Earthquake toll rises to 116 in Turkey; rescuers finish searches||The death toll in last week’s Aegean Sea earthquake rose to 116 on Wednesday as rescuers in the Turkish city of Izmir finished searching buildings that collapsed in the quake.All but two of the victims were killed in Izmir, Turkey’s third-largest city. Two teenagers died on the Greek island of Samos, which lies south of the epicenter of Friday’s earthquake. The US Geological Survey registered the quake’s magnitude at 7.0, although other agencies recorded it as less severe.Mehmet Gulluoglu, head of Turkey’s Disaster and Emergency Management Presidency, said search and rescue operations had been completed at 17 buildings that fell in Izmir. The rescue operation has been roaring at full tilt since Friday, pulling 107 survivors from the rubble.Of the 1,035 people injured in the quake, 137 remained hospitalized on Wednesday, the agency added.Following a Cabinet meeting on Tuesday evening, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan pledged not to give up until the final person was recovered. Rescuers’ spirits were raised Tuesday when they pulled a 3-year-old girl from the wreckage of her family home 91 hours after the quake.The tremors were felt across western Turkey, including in Istanbul, as well as in the Greek capital of Athens. Some 1,700 aftershocks followed, 45 of which were greater than 4.0 magnitude.In Izmir, the quake reduced buildings to rubble or saw floors pancake in on themselves. Authorities have detained nine people, including contractors, for questioning over the collapse of six of the buildings.Turkey has a mix of older buildings and new buildings make of cheap or illegal construction that do not withstand earthquakes well. Regulations have been tightened to strengthen or demolish older buildings, and urban renewal is underway in Turkish cities, but experts say it is not happening fast enough.The country sits on top of two major fault lines and earthquakes are frequent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/earthquake-toll-rises-to-116-in-turkey-rescuers-finish-searches/story-UxdYoRQq7BvLbm6Ys6fwNO.html
04-11-2020||World||US presidential elections 2020: Joe Biden wins Arizona, battleground state with changing electorate||Biden defeated President Donald Trump in Arizona, the Associated Press projected, becoming the first Democratic presidential candidate to win the state since 1996.Biden benefited from a more diverse electorate in Arizona, which Trump won by 3.5 percentage points in 2016. The state represents 11 of the 270 Electoral College votes needed to win the White House.Click here for complete US elections coverage Bill Clinton was the last Democrat to win Arizona, claiming it for his re-election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-presidential-elections-2020-joe-biden-wins-arizona-battleground-state-with-changing-electorate/story-0hZUhCFOcY3RrMTt8NR27N.html
04-11-2020||World||‘We won’, declares Trump, vows to move Supreme Court to stop counting||President Donald Trump sought to declare victory even as millions of votes remained to be counted in key battleground states, saying in a speech from the White House on Wednesday he would be going to the Supreme Court to ask for “all voting to stop”, alleging fraud.“Frankly, we did win this election,” he said, when he was nowhere near the 270 electoral college votes he needed to win. Joe Biden, the Democratic nominee, was ahead with 225votes to Trump’s 213 in Associate Press tracker at the time of writing of this report.The president had won Florida, Iowa and Ohio as voting had continued into early Wednesday morning and Biden expressed confidence about picking up Michigan, Wisconsin and Pennsylvania and said he was “on track” to win the election.Click here for complete coverage of the US Presidential Election 2020Neither of them had flipped a state yet, although Biden was closest to it, having held a steady lead in Arizona, a Republican-leaning state Trump had won in 2016. Fox News called it for Biden and then retracted under fire from the Trump campaign for jumping the gun. But an angry Trump referenced it at length in his controversial White House speech.“We feel good about where we are,” Biden had said earlier. “We really do. I’m here to tell you tonight we believe we’re on track to win this election.”He added: “We are feeling really good about Wisconsin and Michigan. And by the way it’s going to take time to count the votes but we’re going to win Pennsylvania.”Around the same time, Trump first sought to insert his false claims and grievances into the election process with a tweet, which was flagged by Twitter as disputed or misleading content, that he was “up Big” and wrongly claimed “they are trying to STEAL the Election”.Trump and Biden were locked in close fights in battleground states as counting of votes progressed haltingly in some battleground states because of the high volumes of early votes, especially those mailed in.But Trump did not lose in a landslide as some pundits had forecast, and Biden did not close the contest early as some had said he might.Trump had picked up Florida, Iowa and Ohio among the battleground states he had won in 2016, and was leading in North Carolina. He also held on to Texas and Georgia, the solidly Republican states that Democrats had hoped to flip in a late campaign push.Trump was also leading in Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania, the three Democratic states — the Blue Wall states — he had flipped in 2016 to win the presidency. But his leads in these states were expected to change as large number of early votes — especially mail-in ballots — remained to be counted.Michigan authorities have said they will not be ready to make an official announcement of the outcome till late Wednesday. Pennsylvania might also not have a result to announce until then.Just as Biden had made a play for Georgia and Texas to an extend and failed, Trump had made a go for New Hampshire and Minnesota, both states won by Hillary Clinton in 2016, and failed. Biden won them both.But Trump appeared to have held his own thus far despite having trailed Biden in polls for much of the race, and succeeded in mobilising his supporters with frenetic pace of campaigning in the finals days when he was multiple rallies across multiple states every day.Jason Miller, a senior member of Trump’s re-election campaign, told reporters on a conference call, earlier on Tuesday: “We feel very, very good about our ground game, we feel very good about where we’re turning out.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/we-won-declares-trump-vows-to-move-supreme-court-to-stop-counting/story-EHU8Gm35Uf7cOkMAKjrk3I.html
04-11-2020||World||Indian-American lawyer Jenifer Rajkumar becomes first South Asian woman to be elected to New York State Assembly||A 38-year-old Indian-American lawyer has become the first South Asian woman to be elected to the New York State Assembly.Jenifer Rajkumar, a Democrat, defeated her Republican rival Giovanni Perna.“Congratulations to @JeniferRajkumar on becoming the first South Asian woman elected to NY state office! Jenifer is a longtime public servant and legal advocate, and we know she’ll be a strong advocate for South Asian voices in Albany,” the Indian American Impact Fund tweeted on Wednesday. Rajkumar, a Stanford-educated lawyer and an immigrant rights advocate, will represent New York City in the New York State Assembly, representing the 38th Assembly district, which includes Woodhaven, Ridgewood, Richmond Hill, Ozone Park and Glendale. The New York State Assembly is the lower house of the NY state legislature, the state Senate being the upper house. There are 150 seats in the Assembly. Assembly members serve two-year terms without term limits.Rajkumar is a lawyer and a professor at the City University of New York. She is also a former New York state government official. According to her profile on her website, Rajkumar has early roots in public service. Her parents immigrated to the United States from India and settled in the Queens neighbourhood of New York. She serves on the Legal Advisory Council of Sanctuary for Families, New York City’s leading service provider and advocate for survivors of domestic violence, sex trafficking, and related forms of gender violence. She has spoken on public interest law and policy at Stanford Law School, CUNY Law School and Harvard Law School.In 2015 and 2016, Rajkumar was selected to Super Lawyers’ New York-Metro Rising Stars List, a recognition given to no more than 2.5 per cent of the lawyers in New York. Her profile said New York Governor Andrew Cuomo had appointed her as the Director of Immigration Affairs and Special Counsel for New York state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indian-american-lawyer-jenifer-rajkumar-becomes-first-south-asian-woman-to-be-elected-to-new-york-state-assembly/story-EyoQu7Ju7yqtkk8ZiZQYjI.html
04-11-2020||World||‘They are trying to steal the elections’: Trump accuses Democrats without any evidence||Republican President Donald Trump, in a tweet early on Wednesday, predicted he will win a second four-year term and accused Democrats of attempting to “steal” the election from him, without citing any evidence.US Presidential Elections 2020: Full Coverage“We are up BIG, but they are trying to STEAL the Election. We will never let them do it,” Trump tweeted, adding, “A big win” for re-election. His tweets came immediately after a statement from Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden, who said he was optimistic about his prospects of winning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/they-are-trying-to-steal-the-elections-trump-accuses-democrats-without-any-evidence/story-MopUWdoTB18TXEBaEpDm3H.html
04-11-2020||World||US polls: No clear winner yet as Trump, Biden locked in swing state contests||President Donald Trump and his Democratic challenger Joe Biden were locked in close fights in battleground states as counting of votes progressed haltingly till late into Tuesday night in some swing states because of the high volumes of early votes, especially postal ballots, in the US presidential elections.But President Donald Trump did not lose in a landslide as some pundits had forecast, and Biden did not close the contest early as some others had said he might.Neither candidate was anywhere near the winning threshold of 270 electoral college votes. After the first four hours since close of polling, Biden had 213 and Trump 118 in Associate Press’s tracker.Trump was ahead in key battleground states of Florida — which had been called for the president by some US news outlets — and North Carolina, both of which he had won in 2016. And he held on to Texas and Georgia, the solidly Republican states that Democrats had hoped to flip in a late campaign push.President Trump was also leading in Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania, the three Democratic states — the Blue Wall states — he had flipped in 2016 to win the presidency. But his leads in these states were expected to change as early votes remained to be counted.Michigan authorities have said they will not be ready to make an official announcement of the outcome till late Wednesday. Pennsylvania might also not have a result to announce until then.Biden was leading in Arizona, a Republican state that Trump had won in 2016, but has been changing demographically over the years.Just as Biden had made a play for Georgia and Texas to an extent and failed, Trump had made a go at New Hampshire and Minnesota, both states won by Democrat Hillary Clinton in 2016, and failed.But Trump appeared to have held his own thus far, despite having trailed Biden in polls for much of the race, and succeeded in mobilising his supporters with frenetic pace of campaigning in the finals days when he was at multiple rallies across multiple states every day.Jason Miller, a senior member of Trump’s re-election campaign, told reporters on a conference call, earlier on Tuesday: “We feel very, very good about our ground game, we feel very good about where we’re turning out.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-polls-no-clear-winner-yet-as-trump-biden-locked-in-swing-state-contests/story-a77eYrWUbvk0PAVhP4JMVM.html
04-11-2020||World||US Election 2020: Cory Booker defeats Indian-American Trump loyalist Rik Mehta in Senate race||Cory Booker, the former mayor of New Jersey’s largest city and onetime Democratic Presidential candidate, scored a second US Senate term over a Republican who had raised scant campaign cash and downplayed the novel coronavirus.Click here for the full US Election 2020 coverageWith 51% of precincts reporting, Booker had 61% of the vote to 38% for Rik Mehta, a pharmaceutical entrepreneur and political newcomer, according to the Associated Press(AP). New Jersey hasn’t sent a Republican to the US Senate since 1972.Booker, 51, was backed by a campaign fund and other accounts that as of November 1 had raised $14.5 million. Mehta, 42, had reported just $564,000, more than half of it a loan backed by the candidate, according to Federal Election Commission filings.Booker won a special election in 2013 over Republican Bob Hugin to fill the seat of the late Frank Lautenberg, a fellow Democrat. Hugin, the former chairman and chief executive officer of Celgene Corp., had spent $36 million of his own fortune on that race.In January, Booker ended his 2020 presidential campaign after failing to qualify for a candidates’ debate. A progressive champion of marijuana legalization and criminal reform, same-sex marriage, a $15 federal minimum wage, and stricter gun laws, Booker faced a challenger who showed unabashed support for Donald Trump in a state where the President is unpopular.Mehta on Twitter said he and his wife attended a Trump fundraiser in Bedminster on October 1, less than 24 hours before the White House disclosed that the President was positive for the coronavirus. In response to Governor Phil Murphy’s suggestion that all attendees quarantine, Mehta said Murphy was fear mongering, and there was no need to do so.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-election-2020-cory-booker-defeats-indian-american-trump-loyalist-rik-mehta-in-senate-race/story-O2DxCacBmNtMKBOrPPjOIN.html
04-11-2020||World||Voters favor Biden on handling of Covid-19, Trump on economy||Voters in the US presidential election faced a public health crisis and a wounded economy, but neither candidate emerged as the clear choice to handle both of those issues, according to AP Votecast.More voters — both nationwide and in key battlegrounds — said former Vice President Joe Biden would be better able to handle the coronavirus pandemic, the top concern for about 4 in 10 voters. But President Donald Trump edged out Biden on the question of who would be better to rebuild an economy besieged by nearly 11 million job losses and small businesses staring down a bleak winter. About 3 in 10 voters nationally ranked the economy as the most pressing issue.The question of whether the pandemic or the economy mattered more to voters was a heated debate in the campaign. Trump argued that the economy should not be a casualty of the disease and maintained, without evidence, that the nation was “rounding the turn.” Biden has warned that the economy can never fully heal unless the coronavirus is first contained and businesses can fully reopen.A majority of voters were receptive to that argument. About 6 in 10 voters said the government’s higher priority should be limiting the spread of the coronavirus, even if it damages the economy.AP VoteCast is a nationwide survey of more than 132,000 voters and nonvoters conducted for The Associated Press by NORC at the University of Chicago.Despite the months of debate, three-quarters of all voters said they knew all along who they supported. And Trump weighed heavily on their minds — two-thirds said their decision was driven by their opinion of the untraditional president, either for or against.Trump voters overwhelmingly endorsed their president. About 8 in 10 said their vote was in support of him, not in opposition to Biden. Meanwhile, Biden voters were closely split over whether they mainly supported Biden or opposed Trump with their vote for president.Millions of voters rushed to cast their ballots early, and did so with a clear sense of anxiety and worry. About 6 in 10 voters — including most Biden voters and about a quarter of Trump voters — said they think things in the country are on the wrong track.Trump’s campaign tried to make the handling of the economy a top selling point for his reelection, an uphill battle as unemployment spiked to double digits this spring. A comeback has recently showed signs of stalling as federal aid lapsed because the Trump administration and House Democrats could not reach a compromise. Only about 4 in 10 voters said the economy was good or excellent, with the rest describing conditions as not so good or poor.Still, Trump’s image as a boon to business was resilient, despite the pandemic downturn.Trump continued to draw support from a coalition of white men, white voters without a college degree and those living in small towns and rural communities. Biden enjoyed more backing from women, college graduates and Black, Hispanic and Asian voters.The coronavirus outbreak has claimed more than 230,000 American lives and has been surging across the country in recent weeks. Still, voters were divided on whether the nation has contained the spread of the virus. About half of voters said the virus is at least somewhat under control, while roughly half described the coronavirus as out of control.Voters in key battleground states shared anxieties about the virus and its spread. In Wisconsin, which saw an October spike in cases, close to half of voters said the pandemic was the top issue facing the country and about 6 in 10 said it was not under control. About two-thirds said the government should prioritize stopping its spread even if it means economic pain.About half of Wisconsin voters said that Biden would do a superior job of combating the virus, roughly the same as in Michigan, North Carolina, Ohio and Pennsylvania. Trump had an edge in stewarding the economy, with roughly half of voters in these states saying he would do better than Biden.More than 100 million Americans rushed to vote early and by mail, taking advantage of new rules intended to make voting safer and easier during the pandemic. Trump has sought to sow doubt about the new voting systems and the legitimacy of the count, and claimed without evidence that some voters would cheat. The survey found about 3 in 10 expressing doubts that their votes would be accurately counted.Concerns about voting were somewhat higher in Pennsylvania, another key state in the election, compared with other states: 36% were not confident the vote count would be accurate.Tensions over structural racism increased this summer after the police killings of several Black Americans, setting off peaceful protests and in some cases riots, looting and violence. Trump positioned himself as a defender of police and cast the protesters as radicals — part of an appeal to suburban and older voters who he thought would embrace a law and order message.Nationally, about three-quarters of voters called racism a serious challenge for society as a whole and for policing in particular. About a quarter said they want to see the police be tougher on crime; about a third think police are too tough.Notably, majorities of voters in two battleground states — Wisconsin and Minnesota — disapproved of protests over policing. Both states saw violence and destruction during demonstrations after police shootings of Black men.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/voters-favor-biden-on-handling-of-covid-19-trump-on-economy/story-m7ss0Yiz3JdOWLRXzv1o9J.html
04-11-2020||World||Indian-origin congressman Raja Krishnamoorthi re-elected for US House from Illinois||Indian-origin Democratic congressman Raja Krishnamoorthi has been re-elected to the US House of Representatives for the third consecutive term. Krishnamoorthi, 47, who was born in New Delhi, easily defeated Preston Nelson of the Libertarian Party. When last reports came in, he had accounted for nearly 71 per cent of the total votes counted. Krishnamoorthi, whose parents are from Tamil Nadu, was first elected to the House of Representatives in 2016. Meanwhile, congressman Ami Bera is seeking his fifth consecutive win from California and Ro Khanna his third term in the House of Representatives from California. Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal is seeking her third consecutive term from Washington state. Voting in both California and Washington states continues and results are expected to be declared in the wee hours. Dr Hiral Tipirneni is seeking her third consecutive attempt from the sixth Congressional District of Arizona. Sri Kulkarni from the Democratic Party was giving a tough fight to the Republican Party’s Troy Nehls from the 22nd Congressional District of Texas. Republican Manga Anantatmula was trailing by nearly 15 percentage points against Democratic incumbent Gerry Connolly from the 11th Congressional District of Virginia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indian-origin-congressman-raja-krishnamoorthi-re-elected-for-us-house-from-illinois/story-qpGctLZoph8ZzyvUAu5tuK.html
04-11-2020||World||Biden wins in 10 states but Florida, North Carolina results most crucial||Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden has registered wins in his home state Delaware, Maryland, Massachusetts, Vermont, Connecticut, Virginia, Rhode Island, New Mexico, New York and New Jersey as final results trickle in on the election day on Wednesday (IST).Georgia, Ohio, Texas, and Florida are the most crucial states as they don’t have a predictable voting pattern — voters in these states do not vote the same candidate they had voted in the previous election. Arizona, Iowa, Michigan, North Carolina, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin are also states which could play a decisive role in the 2020 United States Elections.Watch what Trump & Biden said as US elects next President l Latest UpdatesBoth candidates are closely fighting it out in North Carolina and Florida. According to Reuters, President Donald Trump is narrowly leading Joe Biden in Florida. Georgia, North Carolina and Ohio have shown no clear outcome so far.Biden has won 85 electoral votes so far as he also captured three electoral votes given to Washington (District of Columbia). US President Donald Trump has captured 61 electoral votes so far Indiana, Kentucky, South Carolina, Arkansas, Oklahoma, Tennessee, Louisiana, Nebraska, Nebraska’s 3rd Congressional District, North Dakota, South Dakota and Wyoming and West Virginia. The winner has to win 270 votes to secure the electoral college.Donald Trump has won the states which he had previously won in 2016 US elections. Trump was projected to win Indiana, Kentucky, South Carolina, Arkansas, Oklahoma and Mississippi as these states often vote for Republican and conservative candidates.Long queues were seen across the country as US citizens set aside fears of the raging pandemic and turned out in person to vote for their preferred candidates. The campaigns and debates ahead of the elections saw Biden and Trump accuse each other of not being able to stem the pandemic and according to a report by Associated Press, voters believe the public health crisis and economic distress brought by the coronavirus pandemic are the nation’s most important issues which show that both Biden and Trump faced voters who wanted more from the government at this point of crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-wins-in-10-states-but-florida-north-carolina-results-most-crucial/story-wEMBNFCWoqyr2GSqMQy2jM.html
04-11-2020||World||Twitter, Facebook suspend some accounts as US election misinformation spreads online||Twitter Inc and Facebook Inc on Tuesday suspended several recently created right-leaning news accounts posting information about voting in the hotly contested US election for violating their policies.Click here for full US election 2020 coverageTwitter said the accounts had been suspended for violating its policy against “coordination,” posting identical content while appearing independent or engaging in other covertly automated behavior. Facebook suspended them for inauthentic behavior.One of those suspended, SVNewsAlerts, had more 78,000 Twitter followers, after adding more than 10,000 in the past week. The account frequently warned of election-related unrest and highlighted issues with voting safety and reliability. It pointed to fraud claims about Democrats and called attention to Republican President Donald Trump’s rallies and speeches.Other accounts suspended by Twitter included FJNewsReporter, Crisis_Intel and Faytuks. A Facebook page also named SVNewsAlerts, which was suspended on Tuesday afternoon, had more than 20,000 followers. Facebook declined to comment further.False or exaggerated reports about voting fraud and delays at the polls circulated on social media throughout the day, in some cases helped along by Republican accounts and online publications.The FBI and the New York attorney general also said they were looking into a spate of mysterious robocalls urging people to stay home, which were reported in multiple battleground states.The hashtag #StopTheSteal spiked from a few dozen mentions to more than 2,000 mentions over a 15-minute period in the morning, according to media intelligence firm Zignal Labs.Zignal said unfounded claims about closed polling stations and excessively long lines in Republican-leaning areas in Pennsylvania, one of the most hotly contested states, received more than 33,000 mentions on Twitter.Twitter appended fact-checking labels to multiple tweets from the @PhillyGOP account, which was among those using #StopTheSteal. The Philadelphia Republican Party did not immediately respond to a Reuters request for comment on the Twitter labels.Far-right sites Breitbart and The Gateway Pundit both published articles claiming “the steal is on” in Pennsylvania that racked up thousands of shares on Facebook and Twitter.In one video shared widely among conservative audiences, a Trump poll-watcher was seen being turned away from a site. Philadelphia officials investigated and concluded the man had mistakenly been barred under an expired law, which required authorization to enter a specific polling spot. He was then admitted.The video was viewed 2.4 million times on Twitter.Followers of the conspiracy movement QAnon also spread the Pennsylvania reports, according to researchers at misinformation tracking firm Alethea Group. (Reporting by Joseph Menn and Katie Paul; Editing by Lisa Shumaker)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/twitter-facebook-suspend-some-accounts-as-us-election-misinformation-spreads-online/story-CEdbN1zPv88IN7j00NPDCN.html
04-11-2020||World||US Election 2020: Donald Trump and Joe Biden neck-and-neck in vital battleground of Florida||President Donald Trump was narrowly leading Democratic rival Joe Biden in the vital battleground state of Florida on Tuesday, while other competitive swing states that will help decide the election outcome, such as Georgia and North Carolina, remained up in the air.Click here for full US election 2020 coverageThe two contenders split the first US states to be projected in the White House race, with conservative Indiana and Kentucky going to Trump and Democratic-leaning Vermont and Virginia going to Biden, according to projections by television networks and Edison Research.But in Florida, a must-win state for Trump in his quest for the 270 electoral votes needed to win the presidency, Trump was leading Biden 50.3% to 48.7% with about 89% reported. Biden still has multiple paths to the 270 electoral votes he needs without Florida despite having spent lots of time and money trying to flip the state that backed Trump in 2016.Also Read | Polls close in first six US states, Indiana called for TrumpVoters, many wearing masks and maintaining social-distancing to guard against the spread of the coronavirus, experienced long lines in a few locales and short waits in many other places. There were no signs of disruptions or violence at polling sites, as some officials had feared.The winner - who may not be determined for days - will lead a nation strained by a pandemic that has killed more than 231,000 people and left millions more jobless, racial tensions and political polarization that has only worsened during a vitriolic campaign.A third of US voters listed the economy as the issue that mattered most to them when deciding their choice for president while two out of 10 cited Covid-19, according to an Edison Research exit poll on Tuesday.In the national exit poll, four out of 10 voters said they thought the effort to contain the virus was going “very badly.” In the battleground states of Florida and North Carolina, battleground states that could decide the election, five of 10 voters said the national response to the pandemic was going “somewhat or very badly.”The poll found that nine out of 10 voters had already decided on their choice before October, and nine out of 10 voters said they were confident their state would accurately count votes.The poll found signs Trump was losing support among his core base of supporters in Georgia and Virginia.Edison’s exit polls showed Trump winning seven in 10 white men in Georgia, down from eight in 10 against Hillary Clinton in 2016. And while Trump was winning with six in 10 voters who were at least 65 years old in Georgia, that was down from a seven in 10 four years ago.In Virginia, Trump is winning six in 10 whites without college degrees in Virginia, down from seven in 10 in 2016. Trump is also winning six in 10 white men in Virginia, down from seven in 10 in 2016.Biden, the Democratic former vice president, has put Trump’s handling of the pandemic at the center of his campaign and has held a consistent lead in national opinion polls over the Republican president.Biden, 77, appeared to have multiple paths to victory in the state-by-state Electoral College that determines the winner; at least 270 electoral votes, determined in part by a state’s population, are needed to win.Opinion polls show Trump, 74, is close enough in several election battleground states that he could repeat the type of upset he pulled off in 2016, when he defeated Democrat Hillary Clinton despite losing the national popular vote by about 3 million ballots.“I’m hopeful,” Biden told reporters in his home state of Delaware, after earlier appearing in the pivotal state of Pennsylvania to make an 11th-hour appeal to voters.Ahead of Election Day, just over 100 million voters cast early ballots either by mail or in person, according to the US Elections Project at the University of Florida, driven by concerns about crowded polling places during the pandemic as well as extraordinary enthusiasm.The total has broken records and prompted some experts to predict the highest voting rates since 1908 and that the vote total could reach 160 million, topping the 138 million cast in 2016.In anticipation of possible protests, some buildings and stores were boarded up in cities including Washington, Los Angeles and New York. Federal authorities erected a new fence around the White House perimeter.A REFERENDUM ON TRUMPSupporters of both candidates called the election a referendum on Trump and his tumultuous first term. No US president has lost a re-election bid since Republican George H.W. Bush in 1992.Among the most closely contested states that are expected to determine the outcome are Pennsylvania, Florida, Wisconsin, Michigan, North Carolina, Arizona and Georgia, with Democrats hoping that Biden may even threaten Trump in states that once seemed certain to go Republican such as Ohio, Iowa and Texas.Voters on Tuesday will also decide which political party controls the US Congress for the next two years, with Democrats narrowly favored to recapture a Senate majority and retain their control of the House of Representatives.Trump is seeking another term in office after a chaotic four years marked by the coronavirus crisis, an economy battered by pandemic shutdowns, an impeachment drama, inquiries into Russian election interference, US racial tensions and contentious immigration policies.Biden is looking to win the presidency on his third attempt after a five-decade political career including eight years as vice president under Trump’s predecessor, Barack Obama.Biden has promised a renewed effort to fight the public health crisis, fix the economy and bridge America’s political divide. The country this year was also shaken by months of protests against racism and police brutality.(Reporting by Trevor Hunnicutt in Scranton, Pennsylvania, and Doina Chiacu in Washington; Additional reporting by Steve Holland and Susan Heavey in Washington and Katanga Johnson and Rich McKay in Atlanta Writing by Joseph Ax, Alistair Bell and John Whitesides; Editing by Will Dunham, Paul Thomasch and Howard Goller)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-election-2020-donald-trump-and-joe-biden-neck-and-neck-in-vital-battleground-of-florida/story-e65pGlgjbfxmDfv0NeFmSP.html
04-11-2020||World||For Donald Trump Jr, red wave in globe, but not India||Donald Trump Jr, the US president’s son, tweeted a world map as a mock electoral map showing India, with wrong boundaries, painted in blue, the colour associated with Democrats, and much of the rest of the world in Republican red. “Okay, finally got around to making my electoral map prediction,” he tweeted on Tuesday. The other countries painted in blue were Mexico, China, Sri Lanka and what looked like Liberia. The map also showed California in blue, which it is, and another East Coast state. For the president’s son, a leading surrogate for his father to show India blue, even if playfully, would settle a debate in Indian American community about who is getting their support.“From this house to the White House, with the grace of God,” Joe Biden wrote on a wall of his childhood home in Scranton, Pennsylvania, which he visited on Tuesday with his grandchildren. His family had lived there before moving to nearby Delaware state, which has been home since. Biden began the day with a visit to the church and then to the grave of his elder son, Beau Biden, who died in 2015 of brain cancer.Melania Trump voted at Palm Beach in Florida, the family’s adoptive home, on Tuesday, saying she was feeling “great”. Asked why she did not vote with her husband last week, she said, “It’s Election Day, so I wanted to come here to vote today for the election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/for-donald-trump-jr-red-wave-in-globe-but-not-india/story-GHSOPyVPWDtP6CyXo2VE5J.html
04-11-2020||World||US Election 2020: Trump wins West Virginia||President Donald Trump has coasted to victory in West Virginia, taking its five electoral votes.The Republican nominee defeated Democrat Joe Biden on Tuesday in a reliably conservative state.The last Democrat to win a presidential race in West Virginia was Bill Clinton in 1996.Trump defeated Democrat Hillary Clinton in West Virginia four years ago by 42 percentage points, one of his highest margins of victory in the nation. Many in the state credit him for his conservative populism and promises to help the declining coal industry, even as few expected he could bring back jobs in a dying field.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-elections-2020-trump-wins-west-virginia/story-oo6A6NtYo2lxr4J2muuaKP.html
04-11-2020||World||Polls close in first six US states, Indiana called for Trump||Polls closed Tuesday in six US states in a bitterly contested election between incumbent President Donald Trump and Democratic challenger Joe Biden, including in the key East Coast battleground of Georgia.Polling places also shut statewide in Indiana, Kentucky, South Carolina, Vermont and Virginia in a landmark contest that saw tens of millions of American cast their ballots early amid the coronavirus pandemic.CNN and NBC already projected a win for Trump in Indiana.The United States was in for a long night of waiting for results, as some states say they could be counting ballots for several days. Polls were to close throughout the evening, until the last votes are cast in Alaska.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/polls-close-in-first-six-us-states-indiana-called-for-trump/story-2DsYKcCFMlvTUWZLu5gsrJ.html
04-11-2020||World||Biden briefly confuses granddaughter with son in verbal gaffe||Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden briefly appeared to confuse his granddaughter with his son as he spoke in Philadelphia on Election Day, in a verbal gaffe which was swiftly seized on by the Trump campaign.Biden, a former stutterer renowned for becoming easily tangled in his words, was introducing the daughter of his son Beau -- who died of brain cancer in 2015 -- to supporters in the city in Pennsylvania when he called her “none other than my son Beau Biden.”He quickly corrected himself to say “this is my granddaughter Natalie,” before realizing he had wrapped his arm around the wrong grandchild, noting his mistake and pulling over Natalie.With campaigning wrapped up and both candidates now waiting for final votes to be cast and the election to be called, the confusion gave President Donald Trump’s campaign one final blunder to offer up to its supporters as evidence of what it has long alluded to as Biden’s senility.“WATCH: Joe Biden mixes up his granddaughters,” the Trump campaign posted on Twitter with an accompanying video of the incident.Trump, 74, also makes gaffes on a regular basis, both verbally and on Twitter, but insists he has all the “best words.”Biden mentions Beau on almost every public occasion. As Delaware’s attorney general from 2007 to 2015, and an Army reservist who served in Iraq, Beau had flirted with the idea of following his father’s footsteps into the Senate, and seemed destined to hit the national stage.Biden had started the morning with a visit to the Delaware church where Beau is buried alongside Biden’s first wife and daughter, who died in a car wreck in 1972.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-briefly-confuses-granddaughter-with-son-in-verbal-gaffe/story-gufS5aOICjcCElUvrOgwXK.html
04-11-2020||World||US approves Taiwan drone purchase as arms sales escalate||The Trump administration has notified Congress that it has approved the sale of $600 million in armed drones to Taiwan, the latest in a series of arms transfers for the island.The State Department said Tuesday it had Ok’d Taiwan’s purchase of four “weapons ready” remotely piloted aircraft and related equipment. The move is likely to infuriate China, which regards Taiwan as a renegade province and has reacted angrily to previous weapons sales’ announcements to the island.“This proposed sale serves U.S. national, economic, and security interests by supporting the recipient’s continuing efforts to modernize its armed forces and to maintain a credible defensive capability,” it said. “The proposed sale will help improve the security of the recipient and assist in maintaining political stability, military balance, economic and progress in the region.”It said the sale would improve Taiwan’s defense by bolstering its intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance capabilities and could help deter military action against it.Just last week, the administration approved plans for a $2.37 billion sale of Harpoon missile systems to Taiwan. That came hours after Beijing had announced sanctions on U.S. defense contractors, including Boeing, the lead contractor on the Harpoon deal, over a previous weapons deal.China’s ruling Communist Party claims Taiwan, which split with the mainland in 1949 during a civil war, as part of its territory and has threatened to invade. Washington promised in the 1980s to reduce and eventually end weapons sales to Taiwan but insists its dispute with Beijing must be settled peacefully.Chinese-U.S. relations have plunged to their lowest level in decades amid disputes about security, technology, the coronavirus pandemic and human rights.Taiwan has long been an irritant in relations. Washington has no formal relations with the island’s democratically-elected government but is its main ally. U.S. law requires the government to ensure Taiwan can defend itself. Weapons sales to the island have increased in quantity and quality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-approves-taiwan-drone-purchase-as-arms-sales-escalate/story-Q4Opziygpk8TH3KjXDhaeO.html
04-11-2020||World||IS claims responsibility for deadly attack in Vienna as Austria mourns||Austrian investigators were on Tuesday piecing together the Monday evening rampage through central Vienna by a lone gunman and later claimed by the Islamic State (IS) group, as Chancellor Sebastian Kurz called for a European response to “political Islam”.Four people were killed when Kujtim Fejzulai, described as a 20-year-old IS sympathiser who had spent time in prison, opened fire with a Kalashnikov in a busy area of the Austrian capital the day before the country went into a new coronavirus lockdown.IS -- which has claimed numerous attacks in Europe -- said Tuesday a “soldier of the caliphate” was responsible for the carnage, according to its propaganda agency.Police shot the gunman dead on Monday and later swooped on 18 different addresses and made 14 arrests as they looked for possible accomplices and sought to determine if he had acted alone. After reviewing CCTV footage of the attack in an area teaming with bars and restaurants not far from the historic sights of central Vienna, Interior Minister Karl Nehammer said the video “does not at this time show any evidence of a second attacker”.Vienna police have asked people who filmed moment of the attack to share their recordings with the authorities to aid in tracking the gunman’s route through the capital, rather than posting them to social media.On Fejzulai’s computer, investigators found incriminating evidence including a photograph recently posted on Facebook showing him carrying the automatic weapon and a machete used during the attack.Police said he was also wearing a fake explosive belt.- ‘Repulsive’ attack -Austrian Chancellor Sebastian Kurz condemned the shooting as a “repulsive terror attack”, which he said killed a waitress, a young passer-by and an older man and woman.He called on the European Union to fight against “political Islam” saying it was an ideology that represented a “danger” to the model of the European way of life, in an interview published in Germany’s Die Welt newspaper.His government will face questions about how an individual known to security forces had been able to buy weapons and cause havoc on the streets of the usually peaceful capital, often listed as having the world’s highest quality of life.The investigation is spanning several countries, with Switzerland making two arrests and Macedonia, where Fejzulai has family roots, cooperating with the Austrian authorities.The attack came after several Islamist atrocities in France, including an assault on churchgoers in the Mediterranean city of Nice and the beheading of a schoolteacher near Paris.The recent re-publication of cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed in France has caused new tensions worldwide, sparking protests in some Muslim-majority countries and calls from several terror groups for their followers to take revenge. Britain on Tuesday upgraded its terrorism threat level from “substantial” to “severe”.- ‘Fooled the system’ - Nehammer said Fejzulai had been convicted and jailed for a terror offence in April last year for trying to travel to Syria.The dual Austrian and Macedonian national had then been admitted to a government-funded de-radicalisation programme and had managed to secure an early release in December from a 22-month prison sentence.“The perpetrator managed to fool the de-radicalisation programme of the justice system, to fool the people in it, and to get an early release,” Nehammer said.“It was clear that the attacker, despite all the outward signs of having integrated into society, did exactly the opposite.”A large swathe of central Vienna was cordoned off around the location of the shootings as police combed the area.“It sounded like firecrackers, then we realised it was shots,” one witness told public broadcaster ORF after the attack began. Another spoke of at least 50 shots being fired.- ‘Shock and sorrow’ -The small Alpine nation of nine million people had until now been spared the sort of major attacks that have hit other European countries such as France, Germany and Britain in the last decade.The last significant attacks date back to the 1970s and 1980s and were carried out by pro-Palestinian militants.“This isn’t Berlin and it isn’t Paris. We’re perhaps a big city but nothing really bad ever happens here,” said hotel receptionist Sharut Gunduz.The bloodshed triggered an outpouring of solidarity from world leaders with French President Emmanuel Macron saying the people of France shared the “shock and sorrow” of the Austrian people.Across the country, flags were lowered to half mast on public buildings and people observed a minute of silence at noon as church bells rang out.Kurz, President Alexander Van der Bellen and other officials took part in a wreath-laying ceremony in honour of the victims.- ‘Common struggle’ -Twenty-three wounded people were in hospital Tuesday, with seven in a critical condition, Vienna’s hospital association said.Police said an officer was among those hurt.Germany joined the Czech Republic in stepping up checks at their borders in order to stop possible accomplices.“The fight against these assassins and those who instigate them is our common struggle,” said Chancellor Angela Merkel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/is-claims-responsibility-for-deadly-attack-in-vienna-as-austria-mourns/story-cCeSqtAFhbrAGZ3ALVlEuM.html
04-11-2020||World||US Election 2020 latest updates: Donald Trump, Joe Biden watch as voters decide who wins White House seat||A spectacle of global significance is taking place in the United States of America and is being keenly watched across the world. The Americans have started queuing up to vote for the next President.While Republican candidate and current incumbent Donald Trump is seeking a return to office for a second term, his challenger and Democrat leader Joe Biden has campaigned aggressively to grab the White House for himself.Almost 100 million American voters have already cast votes - nearly doubling the total from 2016. Another 60 million are likely to vote in person on Tuesday. On their final full day on the campaign trail, Trump and Biden broke sharply over the mechanics of the vote itself while visiting the most fiercely contested battleground, Pennsylvania.Click here for complete coverage of US Presidential Elections.Here are all the latest updates on US Election 2020:00:04 am: Early voting passes 100 million ballots, 73% of 2016 turnoutMore than 100 million Americans have cast their ballots ahead of Election Day, the equivalent of about three-quarters of all the voters in the 2016 election, the U.S. Elections Project reported Tuesday.With one day to go before Election Day, the number of early votes this cycle -- at least 100.8 million -- is about 73% of the 137.5 million ballots cast in the 2016 election as a whole, and more than double the 47 million early votes.23:50 pm: US ‘entitled to know’ winner on election day: Donald TrumpUS president Donald Trump says the country is “entitled to know winner on election day” as America vote, according to a report in AFP.23:38 pm: Kamala Harris’s Husband Rallies Supporters in Ohio“We are a nation in pain,” Douglas Emhoff, husband of Democratic Vice Presidential nominee Kamala Harris, told supporters at a noon rally in Columbus, Ohio.He also had a message for Donald Trump.“Don’t mess with the mail, don’t mess with your vote and don’t talk about staying in office when you get voted out,” Emhoff told a socially distanced crowd of about 50 gathered in the beer garden of Land Grant, a popular Columbus microbrewery. “People are sick and tired of it.”23:19 pm: US presidential race reaches climax; long lines seen outside polling stationsAmericans were voting in large numbers across the nation on Tuesday in one of the most divisive and bitter presidential elections in decades in which incumbent Republican Donald Trump is challenged by Democrat Joe Biden.Amidst a resurgent Covid-19 pandemic, over 100 million people have already cast their ballots in early voting, putting the country on course for its highest turnout in a century. Some 239 million people are eligible to vote this year, according to a report in PTI.23:00 pm: ‘Vote and get home,’ anxious voters say on Election DayMany Americans who lined up before dawn to vote on Election Day in the US are exhausted from constant crises, uneasy because of volatile political divisions and anxious about what will happen next, Like those who cast ballots early, their agony is not in deciding between President Donald Trump or his Democratic challenger, Joe Biden. Most made that choice long ago, news agency AP reported.Instead, those voting in record numbers say basic democratic foundations feel suddenly brittle: Will their vote count? Will the loser accept the result? Will the winner find a way to repair a fractured, sick and unsettled nation?22:45 pm: Anxious Americans show up for an election like no otherAcross the country, Americans formed lines at polling stations to make their voice heard in an election unlike any before in the United States. Polls opened with the country shaken from the coronavirus pandemic, waves of protests over police killings of minorities and President Donald Trump’s efforts to sow doubt over the counting of votes.22:29 pm: Biden visits childhood home“From this house to the White House, with the grace of God,” Joe Bide, the Democratic nominee, wrote on a wall of his childhood home in Scranton, Pennsylvania Tuesday.Biden, who voted early, took his grandchildren to his Scranton, where his family had lived before moving to the adjoining state of Delaware, which has been home since.Biden began the day with a visit to the church and then to the grave of his elder son, Beau Biden, who died in 2015 of brain cancer.“I watch ya all the time,” Anne Kearns, the present occupant of the house told Biden. “I’m so proud of you.” Biden introduced his granddaughters briefly before saying they hadn’t been to Scranton before.They went inside as Biden said he wanted to look at the kitchen. “I’m told from a person familiar with the house that the kitchen hasn’t been remodeled or anything.”22:22 pm: Will declare a victory only when there’s a victory, says Trump President Donald Trump on Tuesday said that he would declare victory in the presidential elections “only when there is a victory”.“There’s no reason to play games. I look at it as being a very, very solid chance of winning here. I don’t know how they rate the chances,” Trump said on “Fox & Friends” during a morning phone interview, as quoted by CNN and added, “I think a lot of that has to do with the tremendous crowd size.”22:17 pm: Melania Trump votesThe First Lady Melania Trump cast her vote at Palm Beach in Florida, the family’s adoptive home, on Tuesday. She was feeling “great”, she told reporters and when asked why she did not vote with her husband last week, she said, “It’s Election Day, so I wanted to come here to vote today for the election.”The first lady, who had contracted Covid-19 as did her husband and their son, and has recovered since, wore no mask.22:05 pm: Democrats push to extend control of House for two more yearsDemocrats pushed to seal control of the House for two more years Tuesday as they banked on their health care focus, dominant fundraising and broad suburban indignation with President Donald Trump to make their majority in the chamber even larger.Republicans were hoping to oust some of the 29 Democrats in districts Trump won in 2016, mostly freshmen, in places like Iowa, Oklahoma City, Salt Lake City, rural New Mexico, upstate New York and Virginia.22:14 pm: More than 100 million voted early in US election, AFP reports quoting watchdogMore than 100 million Americans cast their ballots in advance of Tuesday’s Election Day, according to the US Elections Project watchdog, a record figure largely attributed to the Covid-19 pandemic.The ballots, which were mailed in, deposited in drop boxes or cast at polling stations ahead of Tuesday, represent more than 72 percent of the total number of ballots cast in the 2016 presidential election, according to the tally by the watchdog based at the University of Florida.21:56 pm: Facebook vows vigilance on Election Day misinformation effortsFacebook pledged real-time monitoring of Election Day misinformation and manipulation efforts as voters began in-person balloting across the United States Tuesday. Along with other social platforms, the company has promised to stem misinformation around the election, including premature claims of victory, seeking to avoid a repeat of 2016 manipulation efforts.21:30 pm: ‘Vote and get home,’ anxious voters say on Election DayAmericans voting on Election Day are exhausted from constant crises, uneasy because of volatile political divisions and anxious about what will happen next. Like those who cast ballots early, their agony is not in deciding between President Donald Trump or his Democratic challenger, Joe Biden. Most made that choice long ago. 21:14 pm: Top US security official urges patience over vote countDonald Trump’s top domestic security official urged voters Tuesday to be patient in waiting for election results after reports that the president could rush to claim victory.“Voters should be patient while waiting for the outcome of this year’s election,” said Chad Wolf, the acting secretary of homeland security.21.00 pm:  Biden, Harris will build a better future for all of us, says Bill ClintonFormer United States President Bill Clinton along with wife and former US secretary of state Hillary Clinton cast their ballots for Joe Biden and Kamala Harris. Bill through a tweet said that Biden and Harris will work tirelessly to heal our divisions and build a better future for all of us. 20:48 pm: Democrats push to extend control of House for two more yearsDemocrats pushed to seal control of the House for two more years Tuesday as they banked on their health care focus, dominant fundraising and broad suburban indignation with President Donald Trump to make their majority in the chamber even larger.Nearly all Democratic incumbents in potentially vulnerable districts were outspending their GOP challengers, often by vast margins20:08 pm: US stocks open higher in Election Day session, Dow +1.2%Wall Street stocks rose early Tuesday, extending gains from the prior session, as voters headed to the polls in the culmination of a long and bitter US presidential campaign.Shortly after the opening bell, the Dow Jones Industrial Average stood at 27,251.58, up 1.2 percent.The broad-based S&P 500 gained 1.0 percent to 3,342.33, while the tech-rich Nasdaq Composite Index climbed 0.7 percent to 11,035.54.19:55 pm: America on edge as nation decides between Trump and BidenAmericans were voting on Tuesday under the shadow of a surging coronavirus pandemic to decide whether to reelect Republican Donald Trump, one of the most polarizing presidents in US history, or send Democrat Joe Biden to the White House.A record-breaking number of early votes -- some 100 million -- have already been cast in an election that has the country on edge and is being closely watched in capitals around the world.19:49 pm:  ‘Vote like our lives depend on it, because they do’: Kamala Harris Today we must vote like our lives depend on it. Because they do. We must vote like our democracy depends on it. Because it does. And we must vote like justice, equality, and opportunity are possible. Because they are.19:36 pm: Trump says big rally crowds are ‘ultimate poll’President Donald Trump says he believes his large rally crowds during his fast-paced weeks of campaigning are the “ultimate poll” and translate into a lot of votes for his reelection.Trump told Fox News Channel’s “Fox & Friends” on Tuesday he will spend Election Day making phone calls to people who have been loyal to him and will go to his campaign headquarters in suburban Virginia to thank the staff.Trump said he would declare himself the winner of the election “Only when there’s victory.” There has been concern that Trump will declare victory early -- before vote counts are definitive. 19:20 pm: Biden begins Election Day visiting son’s graveJoe Biden has started Election Day with a visit to church — and the grave of his late son, Beau.Biden and his wife, Jill, made an early morning stop at St. Joseph’s on the Brandywine in Wilmington, Delaware, the church he typically visits on Sunday when home. Biden had granddaughters Finnegan and Natalie in tow Tuesday.19:13 pm: Nation by nation, the world watches Election Day in the USFor countries around the planet, the presidency of Donald Trump in its first term has been, it is safe to say, a singular experience to watch. Now that an inflection point in Trump’s time in office is at hand with Tuesday’s US election, what’s at stake if his presidency ends — or if it continues? Nation by nation, how is Election Day in the United States being watched, considered, assessed?19:01 pm: Election Day shadowed by threats of legal challengesEven before Election Day, the 2020 race was the most litigated in memory. President Donald Trump is promising more to come.The candidates and parties have enlisted prominent lawyers with ties to Democratic and Republican administrations should that litigation take on a new urgency if a narrow margin in a battleground state becomes the difference between another four years for Trump or a Joe Biden administration.18:54 pm: Vice-president nominee Kamala Harris urges people to go out and voteDon’t allow anything to come between you and your vote. If you have any questions or concerns about voting, reach out to our voter hotline.☎️ 1 (833) 336-868318:48 pm: Vote for a new day in America, tweets Joe Biden Today, vote for a new day in America. pic.twitter.com/WzarlQ8JDI18:34 pm: Trump ‘army’ of poll watchers led by veteran of fraud claimsA veteran Republican operative who got his start in politics by helping to persuade a judge to throw out hundreds of mail-in ballots is organizing an “army” of volunteers for President Donald Trump’s campaign to monitor voting in Democratic-leaning areas on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-election-2020-latest-updates-donald-trump-joe-biden-watch-as-voters-decide-who-wins-white-house-seat/story-FijIW8QiZpmSWucPF9brBL.html
04-11-2020||India||Siddaramaiah’s big prediction for BS Yediyurappa’s fate after bypoll results||Former chief minister and leader of opposition in assembly Siddaramiah on Wednesday claimed that chief minister BS Yediyurappa would be removed from the post by his party after bypoll results. Siddaramiah made this claim while speaking to reporters in Mysuru and said: ‘I am very confident that Yediyurappa will be moved out. I am saying this based on information I have from Delhi,” he added without revealing his sources.The Congress leader claimed that the corruption allegations he had made against the CM as well as the likely defeat in the bypolls would lead to a change in the leadership at the helm of the state. Reacting to Siddaramiah’s statement, chief minister Yediyurappa denied that any such change in leadership was in the offing and asked the opposition leader “to stop making irresponsible statements”.Yediyruappa also claimed that he was 100% confident of victory in both Sira and RR Nagar seats which went to bypolls. Responding to a question on the long-delayed cabinet expansion, the CM said if required he would “go to Delhi to meet the party high command after bypoll results”. The bypoll results are scheduled on 10 November.Meanwhile, the Karnataka unit of the BJP is holding a one-day meeting of its state executive committee in Mangalore on Thursday in which all senior leaders of the party, including the CM and state unit president Nalin Kumar Kateel are participating. The meeting is likely to discuss various issues, including the current political scenario, in the state, implementation of the NEP, the flood situation in the state, a proposal to bring a law against ‘love-jihad’ as well as candidates for the one Lok Sabha, one Rajya Sabha and two assembly seats which are vacant and likely to face polls soon.The Belgavi Lok Sabha seat is vacant after Union minister Suresh Angadi succumbed to Covid. Similarly, BJP Rajya Sabha MP Ashok Gasti too died due to the virus. Elections are likely to be held for the Maski and Basva Kalyan assembly seats. The executive committee is likely to recommend candidate names to the party high command for these seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/siddaramaiah-s-big-prediction-for-bs-yediyurappa-s-fate-after-bypoll-results/story-hOu4B39zUbBtU8BSUl00tI.html
04-11-2020||India||Arnab Goswami, 2 others sent to 14-day judicial custody in 2018 suicide abetment case||Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami and two others sent were to 14-day judicial custody in 2018 suicide abetment case by a Mumbai court late Wednesday night. Senior counsel and Arnab Goswami’s lawyer Abad Ponda, said that they have moved a bail application, which is likely to be heard on Thursday. Goswami was arrested from his residence in Mumbai’s Lower Parel this morning in connection with the death of an interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother Kumud Naik in 2018. The 53-year-old interior designer had in his suicide note alleged that he and his mother were forced to ends their lives because he was not paid his dues worth to Rs 5.40 crore by Goswami and two others identified as Feroz Shaikh and Nitesh Sarda owners of two different firms, police said. The designer and his mother were found dead at their farmhouse in Kavir village of Alibaug Taluka in May 2018. The case, which was closed by Raigad Police in 2019, was reopened when Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh ordered a re-investigation on the basis of a fresh complaint by Naik’s daughter, Adnya.Goswami was taken to Alibaug near Mumbai in Maharashtra’s Raigad district, where he was later produced before a local court. The news anchor told the court that he was assaulted by the police personnel who came to arrest him following which he was taken back to the police station where a civil surgeon was asked to verify the claims. The court later rejected Goswami’s allegations.The officer, who had earlier investigated abetment to suicide case was also arrested by the police on Wednesday. He will face inquiry, police was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. The investigating officer had filed a closure report, saying there was no evidence, PTI added.A fresh first information report (FIR) was also filed against the Republic TV editor, his wife and two others by the Mumbai Police on Wednesday evening for resisting police officials who came to arrest him in the morning.While the Maharashtra government and Opposition parties are at loggerheads over Goswami’s arrest, the interior designer’s family has hailed the move with his daughter saying “We can’t forget the year 2018. We want to thank Maharashtra Police for standing by a daughter of Maharashtra.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arnab-goswami-2-others-sent-to-14-day-judicial-custody-in-2018-suicide-abetment-case/story-U4xzxPeVfKfIb5IDhzy6iM.html
04-11-2020||India||Naveen Patnaik asks authorities to prevent second wave of Covid-19 in Odisha||Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on Wednesday told officials to strictly enforce the Covid-19 guidelines in the state in order to avoid a second wave of infection after mid-December.Patnaik said this while reviewing the prevailing corona situation in the state. He said the state should remain on alert from today in order to avoid the second wave.“There should be no relaxation in implementation of the Covid-19 guidelines even as less positive cases are reported for some days,” he said.The chief minister directed officials to strictly enforce the pandemic restrictions in order to avoid the second wave of infection and further lockdown. He also asked the district collectors and SPs to ensure strict enforcement of Covid-19 norms.While thanking the people for adhering to the Covid-19 guidelines during the celebration of Durga Puja, Patnaik also appealed to the citizens to repeat the performance during the Diwali festival.He said to implement the curbs during the Diwali, observers will soon visit different districts. He said there is no opportunity to lower the guard at this juncture when the Covid-19 second wave has already hit places like Delhi, Kerala and several European countries.“We have to adhere to the guideline like mandatory mask wearing, maintain social distance and handwashing in order to avoid the second wave as well as possible lockdown like situation,” Patnaik said.Keeping in view the health complications in people after recovery from the Covid-19, the chief minister asked the Health and Family Welfare department to train para-medical staff and doctors to treat such cases.Chief Secretary A K Tripathy said a task force is formed to prepare a standard protocol for the care of the post Covid complications in the people.The chief minister said the economic activities should not slow down due to the pandemic and the officials must focus on livelihood schemes like MGNREGA, Mission Shakti and Urban Wage Employment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/naveen-patnaik-asks-authorities-to-prevent-second-wave-of-covid-19-in-odisha/story-MnQV5JeUruBIuP3MjmaiOK.html
04-11-2020||India||Chanda Kochhar, 2 others named in ED’s money laundering chargesheet||Twenty one months after a multi-agency probe was launched into the alleged irregularities in disbursement of loans by former ICICI Bank managing director (MD) Chanda Kochhar, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) has filed a chargesheet against the former top banker, her husband Deepak Kochhar and Videocon Group Chairman Venugopal Dhoot for allegedly using a web of companies to launder the money received as bribe from Videocon Group, people familiar with the development said. This is the first ever chargesheet against Chanda Kochhar, who had to step down in October 2018 from the ICICI Bank after allegations of multiple irregularities surfaced against her. The ED filed its chargesheet under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in a Mumbai special court on Tuesday, listing evidence and details of companies which were used to launder the ill-gotten money, people cited above said.It took five huge trunks to carry documents in court along with the chargesheet.The court has listed the matter for November 11, asking all accused to be present. Deepak Kochhar was arrested by the ED on September 7. Currently, he is in judicial custody. Apart from Kochhars, at least half a dozen companies – including Deepak Kochhar’s NuPower Renewables Ltd (NRL), Videocon International Electronics Ltd (VIEL) and Supreme Energy Pvt Ltd (SEPL) have also been named in the chargesheet. It also provides details about the companies directly or indirectly controlled by Kochhars. The ED probe has revealed that after ICICI Bank disbursed a loan of around Rs 300 crore - Rs 283.45 crore was the actual disbursed amount - to Videocon International Electronics Ltd (VIEL) on September 7, 2009, Rs 64 crore were transferred to Kochhar’s company NuPower Renewables Ltd (NRL) through Supreme Energy Pvt Ltd (SEPL) the very next day. NRL was started by Videocon’s founder, chairman and MD Venugopal Dhoot and Kochhar. Though initially, Dhoot had started SEPL, later he had transferred its control to Kochhar, said an official who didn’t wish to be named.“The accounting entries were made in the books of SEPL by creating provisioning of Rs 32 lakh (of the Rs 64 crore transferred by VIEL to NRL through SEPL) and its reversal follows a pattern of events in ICICI Bank pertaining to allegations against Chanda Kocchar,” said this officer. According to the second ED officer, “Chanda Kochhar was part of the decision-making process and chairperson/member of the recommending/sanctioning committees for other loans sanctioned to Videocon Group by ICICI Bank.”Kochhar’s lawyer Vijay Aggarwal said on Wednesday: “ED filing five trunks itself is an evidence that they do not have a case and that is why they are just creating a mountain of papers which is not worth even the ink and paper used.” Aggarwal had, last month, termed Deepak Kochhar’s arrest as illegal. Venugopal Dhoot refused to comment on the chargesheet. Investigation against Chanda Kochhar dates back to December 8, 2017, when the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) first registered a preliminary enquiry against her to investigate the irregularities in loans disbursed by the private bank during her tenure. The central anti-corruption agency filed a First Information Report (FIR) naming her accused on January 1, 2019 and alleged that there were irregularities in six high value loans worth Rs 1,875 crore disbursed to Videocon group between June 2009 and October 2011.The CBI had also alleged that Kochhars got Rs 64 crore bribe from Dhoot, a day after the bank disbursed a loan of Rs 300 crore to Videocon International Electronics Ltd (VIEL) on August 26, 2009. Based on the CBI FIR, the ED launched a money laundering probe in February 2019 and interrogated Chanda Kochhar on multiple occasions during which she claimed that she had nothing to do with her husband’s business. While taking custody of Deepak Kochhar in September this year, the ED had informed a court that an “elaborate web of entities” was used by him for laundering the bribe amount of Rs 64 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chanda-kochhar-2-others-named-in-ed-s-money-laundering-chargesheet/story-XL76tygEIVJ2NRDOIwKTxL.html
04-11-2020||India||ED summons Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan’s additional private secretary||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday summoned Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s additional private secretary CM Raveendran in connection with certain appointments in the information technology ministry.A political appointee, considered close to the CM, he was asked to appear in the ED office in Kochi on Friday. The summons came on the day the state government revoked the general consent given to the Central Bureau of Investigation to file cases in the state. The CM’s former principal secretary M Sivasankar, a senior IAS officer, is in the custody of the ED in connection with the gold smuggling case. While investigating the gold smuggling case, probe agencies came across alleged irregularities and commissions in some other projects also. According to officials who are part of the multi-agency probe, Raveendran was summoned on the basis of the statement of Sivasankar. A party leader from Kannur (north Kerala), Raveendran had served under many ministers earlier. He was the secretary of Kodiyeri Balakrishnan when he was the home minister in the VS Achuthanandan government.When Sivasankar was arrested on October 28, the government quickly distanced itself from him but in Raveendran’s case it will be difficult for the party to drop him. Besides the government, the party (CPI(M) is also in big trouble after the arrest of secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan’s son Bineesh Kodiyeri in connection with the Bengaluru drugs case. Kodiyeri courted trouble after the Bengaluru drug racket accused Anoop Mohammad gave a statement to the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in which he mentioned his name. He said Bineesh Kodiyeri, second son of Balakrishnan, had helped him a lot in his “business venture.”His name also figured prominently in the call list of Mohammad. In the remand report, the ED said he pumped in at least Rs 5 crore in drug business which began in 2015. Kodiyeri’s arrest has landed the ruling party in big embarrassment and there are reports his father expressed desire to quit but central leaders prevailed over him, saying it will give an impression that charges were right and the party knew about his shoddy deals. The ED had raided his house and seven other establishments close to him on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-summons-kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-s-additional-private-secretary/story-fRQSixO0ioNE5urbQzpaHL.html
04-11-2020||India||Maoist in jail for 6 years gets bail from Orissa High Court after SC nudge||A key Maoist leader, who has been in jail for six years, in Odisha was on Wednesday granted bail by the Orissa High Court, a week after the Supreme Court asked it to dispose of his bail petition expeditiously.The single judge bench of justice AK Mishra, granted bail to 47-year-old Nachika Linga’s lawyer Prashant Jena said the court did not set any conditions for his bail and left it to the trial court in Koraput for the same. Linga is likely to be released once the trial court executes the order.Linga, who headed the Chasi Mulia Adivasi Sangh, an overground organisation of CPI-Maoists in Narayanpatna and Bandhugaon blocks of Odisha’s Koraput district, had surrendered before the Odisha police in October 2014 near his village Podapadar. The Maoists, who had joined hands with Linga, had accused him of weakening the tribal agitation by joining hands with the BJD.A bonded labourer in Narayanpatna, Linga shot to prominence in 2006 when he formed the Chasi Mulia Adivasi Sangh that captured some 50 acres of non-tribal land in the Podapadar gram panchayat of Narayanpatna block of Koraput district. He was swiftly arrested and charged with several cases, including one of being a Maoist.He was acquitted of all charges in 2008. In 2008, he, along with some CMAS members, formed another outfit called Ghenua Bahini whose members wore red shirts and were armed with traditional tribal weapons like bows and arrows. His group forcibly encroached lands of non-tribals, snatched their valuables and left many of them homeless.In 2009, he became the most wanted man for the Odisha police when he launched an armed attack on Narayanpatna police station leading to police firing that resulted in death of two tribals and injury to the inspector of the police station. With the help of Maoists, he had almost become successful in turning Narayanpatna into a Maoist fortress till Odisha police struck back and took control of the area after three years.Of the 45 cases pending against him, Linga had been acquitted in 44 cases. The trial in the 2009 Narayanpatna police station attack is still going on.Linga’s lawyer Prashant Jena said he had first moved for bail petition before the Orissa HC in 2018 and then moved the SC in 2019 after his bail petition was rejected. The apex court in March this year had asked the trial court in Koraput to finish trial in the Narayanpatna case within six weeks or give him bail if the same could not be done in time. When the trial could not be finished within six weeks, Linga moved the trial court in Koraput seeking bail in April. However, the same was rejected amid Covid-19 lockdown. The case finally went up to SC which on October 28 ordered Orissa High Court to conduct the bail hearing as it concerned the liberty of a person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maoist-in-jail-for-6-years-gets-bail-from-orissa-high-court/story-TbKt9Utt1Kw7qJALMWZpmK.html
04-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: After TRP row, Govt sets up committee for ‘transparent’ ratings and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.After TRP manipulation row, Centre sets up committee for ‘transparent’ ratings The information and broadcasting ministry has set up a four-member committee to make “recommendations for a robust, transparent and accountable ratings system (for television) in India”. The committee consists of Prasar Bharti CEO Shashi V Vempatti, Dr Shailabh from IIT Kanpur, Rajkumar Upadhyay from C-DOT and professor Pulak Ghosh from the Centre for Public Policy. It has to submit its report in two months. Read moreMan’s body in mortuary for 18 days as BJP and Trinamool slug it out in courtThe body of Madan Ghorui, a villager from Patashpur in East Midnapore district, is lying in a morgue since October 16 because of a legal battle between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government. Read moreRajnath Singh slams Congress’ ‘silence’ over Pak minister’s Pulwama boastDefence minister Rajnath Singh, during an election rally in Muzaffarpur for the third round of Bihar polls, on Wednesday slammed the Congress for having raised “doubts” on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s abilities in the aftermath of the Pulwama attack. Read moreSourav Ganguly hopeful of hosting next IPL in India but ‘yet to decide’ on mega auctionBCCI president Sourav Ganguly expressed hope that the next edition of IPL in April-May will be played in India. “Hopefully the vaccine will be out by that time and we can host it,” Ganguly told Hindustan Times in an interview.The current edition of IPL is being played in the UAE due to the pandemic situation in India. IPL 2020, the 13th edition of the tournament was originally planned in India from March 29 but had to be postponed till September and finally moved out of India and into UAE. Read moreDiljit Dosanjh shared her video dancing to GOAT. Now she shares her story with worldYou may have seen and marvelled at her dance videos on Instagram. You may even remember the video where she danced on Diljit Dosanjh’s GOAT that the singer himself shared on his Insta account. Now, dancer Ravi Bala Sharma, 62, has shared her story and what led to her posting dance videos on Instagram in a post shared on the Humans of Bombay (HOB) page. Read moreSushant Singh Rajput’s sisters say that Rhea Chakraborty filed FIR against them to ‘wreak vengeance’Late actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s sisters -- Priyanka and Meetu Singh -- have issued a rejoinder to actor Rhea Chakraborty’s reply to their petition to quash an FIR against them. Rhea, who was dating Sushant at the time of his death, has accused them of illegally obtaining medicines for Sushant, days before his death by suicide. Read moreAmazon India partners with HP Gas to book, make payments for LPG cylindersAmazon India on Wednesday announced a partnership with Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited. With this partnership, Amazon customers in India will be able to book and pay for their HP gas cylinder refills. Read moreKarwa Chauth 2020: Muhurat and city-wise moonrise time across IndiaKarwa Chauth is a major Hindu festival and this year it will take place today, November 4. The festival is observed by married women, predominantly in Northern India. On this day women fast from sunrise till sunset, without consuming even a drop of water, as prayer for the long lives of their husbands. Read moreNationalism, Patriotism and Polls: Shashi TharoorIn the midst of key elections in the US and India, comes a new book by Politician and author Shashi Tharoor. The book called ‘Battle of Belonging’ explores the differences between these ideas and how it is framing the political narrative right now. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-after-trp-row-govt-sets-up-committee-for-transparent-ratings-and-all-the-latest-news/story-0QpJ58oV61BcYEKwtXSVMP.html
04-11-2020||India||Second batch of IAF Rafale aircraft arrives in India from France||The second batch of Indian Air Force’s three Rafale fighter jets arrived in India directly from France on Wednesday.“Second batch of IAF #Rafale aircraft arrived in India at 8:14 pm on 04 Nov 20 after flying non-stop from France,” the IAF wrote on Twitter.  Second batch of IAF #Rafale aircraft arrived in India at 8:14 pm on 04 Nov 20 after flying non-stop from France.An official had earlier said, “The three jets will not have a stopover on their way. They will be refueled by French and Indian tankers during the journey. The jets are expected to reach Ambala after a one-day break at Jamnagar,” the officials said.The first batch of five Rafale jets of the 36 ordered by the IAF had reached the Ambala airbase on July 29 after a stopover at the Al Dhafra airbase near Abu Dhabi, although a formal induction ceremony took place later on September 10.An Indian Air Force team, led by a two-star officer, reviewed the progress of the Rafale project in France last month ahead of the arrival of the second batch of fighters, as reported by Hindustan Times on October 16. The arrival of more fighters will further boost the IAF’s capability to rapidly deploy the advanced jets amid tensions with neighbouring China and Pakistan, officials had earlier said.The IAF is expecting three to four Rafale jets being delivered every two months, with all the 36 planes likely to join the air force’s combat fleet by the year-end.The Rafale fighters are the first imported jets to be inducted into the IAF in 23 years after the Russian Sukhoi-30 jets entered service in June 1997. They have significantly enhanced the offensive capabilities of the IAF.Rafale fighter jets are currently being operated in the Ladakh theatre where the military is on high alert to deal with any provocation by China amid the border standoff. The jets were ordered from France in September 2016 under a government-to-government deal worth Rs59,000 crore. India-specific enhancements on the Rafales include a helmet-mounted sight, radar warning receivers, flight data recorders with storage for 10 hours of data, infrared search and track systems, jammers, cold engine start capability to operate from high-altitude bases and towed decoys to ward off incoming missiles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/second-batch-of-iaf-rafale-aircraft-arrive-in-india-from-france/story-Mc1T57B3M5HLCleoYDxq3K.html
04-11-2020||India||‘Crossing all limits of decency’: Nadda lashes out at Amarinder Singh govt over protests against farm laws in Punjab||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Jagat Prakash Nadda has written a letter to Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh about the ongoing protests in the state against the farm last passed by Parliament. In the letter, Nadda has held Amarinder government for the situation in the case and claimed it is not doing anything to control the protests.“You and your party started opposing these acts crossing all limits of decency and propriety. You and your party openly encouraged agitations against these acts in the state of Punjab, participated in dharnas and rallies and openly issued very provocative statements encouraging agitations against these acts,” Nadda said in the letter.“Your government added fuel to the fire by openly declaring that you will not lodge any FIR against the agitators, even if they indulge in road dharnas, Railway Tracks blocking etc,” he added. My response to open letter of Punjab CM @capt_amarinder ,that he had written to me on 1st November 2020, as per media reports, although till this moment I have not received any such letter from his side, still I am replying to his letter received by me through this media. (1/2) pic.twitter.com/olrOJNRrgpThe farmers have been protesting against the farm laws in Punjab since September 24 when they started blocking railway tracks and stations demanding repeal of the three agriculture related bills.The railways said on Wednesday that it has suffered losses to the tune of Rs 1,200 crore as protests on train tracks continued at 32 places across Punjab.According to data from the national transporter, over 2,225 freight rakes carrying vital commodities could not be operated till date due to the blockades caused by the protesters. Around 1,350 trains have been forced to be cancelled or diverted, it said.Nadda lashed out at Singh for allowing these protests. “Captain Amarinder Singh Ji, as the chief minister of the state, you would appreciate that no one can be allowed to block roads, railway tracks in any agitation and if any agitation has to be carried out, it has to be at places other than the roads, railway tracks, railway stations. This has been reiterated by the Hon’ble Supreme Court in 2009,” he said in the letter.“However, I am pained to say that you, your party and your government in Punjab have shown little respect and regard for the directions of the Supreme Court and openly encouraged blockade of roads, railway tracks and railway stations,” the BJP chief added.Farmers in Punjab have been protesring against the three farm laws - The Farmers’ Produce and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; The Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, and Farm Services Act, 2020; The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 - claiming they would pave the way for dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporate houses.But Nadda said that the BJP govermment at the Centre respects the farmers. “The farmers of Punjab have always been a pride of the nation and it is for this reason that the central government accords the highest priority in matters of MSP procurement to the state,” said Nadda.He also reminded Singh that his Congress party had promised about enacting such laws in its election manifesto.The chief minister, meanwhile, was in Delhi on Wednesday where he staged a dharna (sit-in protest) against the Centre’s new farm legislation and accused the BJP-led government of meting out “step-motherly” treatment towards the state.However, the farmer bodies in Punjab asserted tha there were presently no blockades of railway tracks and the platforms would be vacated. They also slammed the Centre over the power crisis in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crossing-all-limits-of-decency-nadda-lashes-out-at-amarinder-singh-govt-over-protests-against-farm-laws-in-punjab/story-cmo01T3MndYbh1q1lja9YN.html
04-11-2020||India||Spurious liquor kills 20 in 3 days in Haryana’s Sonipat: Police||Seven persons died in the last 24 hours after allegedly consuming suspected spurious liquor in four different localities of Sonipat city in Haryana on Wednesday, taking the death toll to over 20 in the last three days, police said.Sonipat Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Virender Singh said seven more deaths were reported on Wednesday in four Sonipat city colonies - Mayur Vihar, Shastri Colony, Pragati Colony and Indian Colony.“Over 14 persons died in the last two days and their families cremated them without informing us. After seven more persons died today, the family members of the earlier victims informed us about the incident. We have sent four bodies for post-mortem to ascertain whether they consumed liquor or not. We are waiting for the viscera report. We suspect the deaths have taken place due to consumption of spurious liquor,” the DSP said.Sonepat deputy commissioner Shyam Lal Punia and superintendent of police Jashandeep Randhawa visited these four colonies and interacted with the families of the deceased, mostly poor labourers.The police conducted raids at a make-shift shop on the Gohana road in Sonepat and recovered bottles of illicit liquor.Sonepat SP Randhawa said they have recorded the statement of one, Mahender Singh, who is admitted at a private hospital in Sonepat.“He told us that he bought illicit liquor and consumed it. When he complained of chest pain, his family members rushed him to a private hospital, where he is undergoing treatment,” he added.Sonepat Deputy Commissioner Shyam Lal Punia said he suspected these deaths might have happened after consuming spurious liquor.“The family members did not come forward to report about the deaths till Wednesday. I have ordered an investigation into the incident. I have directed the officials to take stern action against people selling poisonous substances,” the DC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spurious-liquor-kills-20-in-3-days-in-haryana-s-sonipat-police/story-TLm7xjjTRbMQk732TchaaI.html
04-11-2020||India||Centre sets up committee for ‘transparent’ TRPs amid manipulation row||The information and broadcasting ministry has set up a four-member committee to make “recommendations for a robust, transparent and accountable ratings system (for television) in India”. The committee consists of Prasar Bharti CEO Shashi V Vempatti, Dr Shailabh from IIT Kanpur, Rajkumar Upadhyay from C-DOT and professor Pulak Ghosh from the Centre for Public Policy. It has to submit its report in two months. The decision comes a little over two weeks after the Parliamentary panel on Information Technology, chaired by Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, took up the issue of Television Rating Points (TRPs). The panel had noted that TRPs can be “easily manipulated”, amid allegations of a scam involving certain news channels.The committee will study past recommendations made by various forums on the subject of television ratings systems in India and recommendations of the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India. They have been tasked with suggesting steps to enhance competition in the sector and undertake a review of present guidelines to see if they have met the test of time and needs of the stakeholders. “Based on the operation of the guidelines for a few years, there is a need to have a fresh look on the guidelines… keeping in view the recent recommendations of TRAI, technological advancements/interventions to address the system and further straighten the procedures for a credible and transparent ratings system,” the ministry said in its order dated November 4. Hindustan Times on October 16 reported that the Press Council of India (PCI) chairman Justice CK Prasad, information and broadcasting ministry secretary Amit Khare and other senior officials briefed the panel on the issue amid a controversy that certain news channels have manipulated the TRPs. The panel had also unanimously agreed that the TRP is not a robust method to measure viewership. “It is not in tune with current technologies,” a person familiar with the matter had said.“Due to converging technologies, it is difficult to have a regulatory framework. There is no uniformity of content and this is required,” said the person mentioned above.To specific questions, officials told the panel members that the current system to ascertain TRP is “not very scientific and accurate”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-sets-up-committee-for-transparent-trps-amid-manipulation-row/story-HxiCblK7BprmzXPCYBAm2K.html
04-11-2020||India||Man’s body in mortuary for 18 days as BJP and Trinamool slug it out in court||The body of Madan Ghorui, a villager from Patashpur in East Midnapore district, is lying in a morgue since October 16 because of a legal battle between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government. The BJP said Ghorui was a party supporter and alleged that he died because of torture in judicial custody. This triggered a legal battle at the Calcutta High Court and Ghorui’s body was sent back to the morgue hours after it was handed over to his family following post mortem examination. On Tuesday, the court ordered that a second post mortem examination be done by Thursday to ascertain the cause of death. Ghorui was arrested on September 27 in connection with an alleged kidnapping of a minor girl in which one of his relatives was the accused. He died of illness at SSKM hospital in Kolkata on October 13, said the police. The body was handed over to Ghorui’s family on the morning of October 16 after a post mortem examination. Lok Sabha MP Locket Chatterjee staged a demonstration near the party’s state headquarters on Central Avenue with the body kept in a hearse. She demanded an investigation by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). Within hours, a legal battle started with the Calcutta High Court issuing back-to-back orders on separate petitions moved by the BJP and the state government. “We have not witnessed something like this in recent history,” said one of the public prosecutors who did not wish to be quoted. After hearing a plea moved by the brother of the deceased, who demanded investigation into the alleged custodial death, the single bench of justice Rajasekhar Mantha on October 16 ordered a second post mortem examination. The government told the judge that Ghorui fell ill in judicial custody in East Midnapore district and was taken to a local hospital and later shifted to SSKM Hospital. Challenging the single-bench ruling, the state government moved the division bench of justices Sanjib Banerjee and Arijit Banerjee on the evening of October 16. The division bench ordered a stay on the second post mortem examination and referred the case back to the single bench. It said the government should be given time to prepare its reply and in the meantime the body must be preserved. During the next hearing on October 20, Swapan Ghorui, the brother of the deceased and the one who signed the petition, demanded an investigation and alleged foul play by the administration. The single-bench once again ordered a second post mortem examination. The government challenged this and moved the division bench. On Tuesday, the division bench upheld the order of the single-bench. The single-judge bench had ruled that the second post mortem examination should be done at Kolkata’s R G Kar Hospital under the supervision of the department’s head and the entire process must be recorded on video. The division bench on Tuesday said that two members from Ghorui‘s family can be present during the examination which has to be conducted by a committee of experts from R G Kar Hospital. The two-judge bench also said that the post mortem examination report as well as all documents relating to Ghorui’s treatment at SSKM Hospital and Contai hospital, where he was admitted first, have to be submitted before the bench on November 10. “The police could not find the accused and arrested my brother. We were not informed that he had fallen ill. All we want now is to take the body home and perform the last rites. My brother’s wife and son are going through a turmoil,” Swapan Ghorui said on Tuesday. Education minister Partha Chatterjee alleged that the BJP is making an issue out of every death. The BJP staged a demonstration on Central Avenue on Wednesday afternoon as well, alleging that the law and order situation in the state has collapsed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-s-body-in-morgue-for-18-days-as-bjp-and-trinamool-slug-it-out-in-court/story-VKLS9mhCAdko7aE4rBdsGN.html
04-11-2020||India||Fresh FIR against Arnab Goswami, wife for resisting police officials who came to arrest him||The Mumbai Police on Wednesday evening filed a fresh FIR against Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami for resisting police officials who came to arrest him.Sections 353, 504, 506 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) have been invoked in the news FIR has that been filed.Goswami was arrested in Mumbai on Wednesday morning for allegedly abetting suicide of a 53-year-old interior designer in 2018, a Mumbai Police official said.The police said that the designer Anvay Naik and his mother Kumud Naik were found dead in May 2018. According to a suicide note, Anvay alleged that he and his mother were forced to end their lives because he was not paid his dues amounting to Rs 5.40 crore by Arnab and two others identified as Feroz Shaikh and Nitesh Sarda - owners of two different firms, they added.Goswami was produced before a court in Mumbai after his arrest where his lawyer claimed that the journalist was assaulted by two police officials who went to arrest him at his residence.He further said that Goswami’s family members were pushed and the house was cordoned off for three hours. “There are abrasions on his left hand and an existing injury on his hand was tried to be torn apart by police,” said the lawyer Gaurav Parker.Many central ministers and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders have condemned the arrest.While BJP chief JP Nadda drew a parallel to the Emergency in 1975, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman slammed the Maharashtra government and questioned where were media associations now.The BJP workers in Maharashtra have decided to wear black badges or black clothes until Goswami is released.The News Broadcasters Association (NBA) also condemened the manner in which Goswami was arrested.The ruling Shiv Sena, meanwhile, dismissed the opposition BJP’s allegations of “politics of revenge” and “muzzling of the press freedom” in the case. Sena leader Sanjay Raut told reporters the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government of the Sena, NCP and Congress has never acted vindictively against anyone since it came to power last year.He also claimed that the state government or any political party had nothing to do with the arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-fir-filed-against-arnab-goswami-his-wife-for-resisting-police-officials-who-came-to-arrest-him/story-O0ckfBtKFrC2oqg7TqZ19H.html
04-11-2020||India||Rs 1,200 crore losses amid protest along tracks in Punjab, says railways||Amid tussle between the Centre and the Punjab state government over allowing the passage of trains in the state, the Indian Railways has claimed losses of nearly Rs 1,200 crore in freight revenue with more than 2,225 goods trains suspended and 1,350 passenger trains cancelled and diverted.Trains have been suspended in the state for over a month from September 25 due to the agitation over farm bills, cleared by the Centre during the monsoon session of Parliament.According to railways’ data, nearly 70 trains are affected per day, in total 1,373 passenger trains have had to be cancelled and diverted leading to losses of Rs 45 crore due to cancellation of the passenger trains.Protests along railway tracks in Punjab are currently still underway in 32 places due to which train movement remains suspended, said the railway ministry on Wednesday.“Agitators have continued dharna at platforms/near railway tracks. Train movement again suspended due to operational and safety considerations as agitators have suddenly stopped some train movements and sporadic blockade continued at various places like especially around Jandiala, Nabha, Talwandi Sabo and Bathinda,” a railway ministry spokesperson said.“All passenger trains passing through the state of Punjab have been adversely impacted too. Till date more than 1,350 passenger trains have been cancelled, diverted or short terminated. This has caused tremendous inconvenience to travellers in Covid times,” he added.According to the Centre, all inward and outward goods transportation, including essential commodities, has adversely been affected in the northern states and Punjab, Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh and Himachal PradeshAccording to the railway ministry, a number of freight trains, including loaded good trains, remain stuck due to the suspension for nearly 15-20 days.“Many freight customers, after having suffered business losses, are getting diverted to other modes of transportation. Outward loading too has been affected from the Punjab area. Movement of foodgrain, container, automobile, cement, pet coke, fertilizer, etc has taken a hit; average loss of loading per day in Punjab is 40 rakes per day,” the ministry spokesperson said.“Inward traffic to Punjab has been affected (Outward from other than Punjab Area) and now container, cement, gypsum, fertilizer, POL, etc, are not being able to reach key locations in Punjab. Over all, the average loss per day is about 30 rakes per day,” he added.The Centre’s statement also comes on the day the Punjab CM led a relay dharna of MLAs at Delhi’s Rajghat after the President declined to give time for a meeting. The CM claimed to have sought time “to highlight the state’s power crisis and critical essential supplies situation” amid tussle with the Centre over resumption of trains.Railway minister Piyush Goyal on October 26, had written to chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, seeking Punjab government’s assurance of the safety of trains and their crew members to restore freight services, hours after the CM asked him to intervene in resuming the same.Goyal, in his letter, had alleged sporadic obstruction of tracks was still continuing at many places, especially around Amritsar and outside the power plants at Naba and Talwandi Saboo, and also outside the Food Corporation of India’s (FCI) silo at Moga. HT has reviewed the letter.Goyal also said some of the freight trains and empty coaching rakes were obstructed again on October 23 after which railway drivers and guards refused to operate trains in Punjab unless they are assured that trains will not be obstructed.The Punjab chief minister on Monday also wrote an open letter to BJP president JP Nadda, seeking intervention to stop the suspension of goods trains by the railways. “What is needed at this critical moment is for all of us to put aside any temptations we may be harbouring to promote our political interests,” the Punjab CM wrote.Earlier in October, CM Singh had appealed to farmers to relax their ongoing ‘Rail Roko’ protest to allow goods trains to pass-through. He had, however, reiterated his government’s support to the farmers in their fight against the farm reform laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-1-200-crore-losses-amid-protest-along-tracks-in-punjab-says-railways/story-ACRiJ4fEasaTZB1VQJzWEK.html
04-11-2020||India||India test-fires long range Pinaka rocket system, will be deployed to counter China||India on Wednesday successfully flight-tested the enhanced version of Pinaka multi-barrel rocket system (MRLS). Indigenously developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), the enhanced Pinaka along with guidance Pinaka will cover the range between 60 to 90 kilometres and will be deployed by the Indian Army.The test-flight was carried out from Integrated Test Range (ITR) in Chandipur, off the coast of Odisha.The DRDO said that this new rocket system has a longer range with reduced length compared to the earlier variant (Mk-1), which will now be phased out. The design and development has been carried out by Pune-based laboratories of DRDO, Armament Research & Development Establishment (ARDE) and High Energy Materials Research Laboratory (HEMRL).Watch: DRDO successfully test-fires advanced version of Pinaka rockets “A total of six rockets were launched in quick succession and the tests met complete mission objectives,” the DRDO said after the test-fire.All the flight articles were tracked by range instruments such as telemetry, radar and Electro Optical Tracking Systems (EOTS) which confirmed the flight performance, it further said.The enhanced version of the Pinaka rocket would replace the existing Pinaka Mk-1 rockets. While Mk-1 had a range of 36 km, this enhanced variant can hit a target 45 to 60 km away and has been developed as per requirements of the Indian Army. The DRDO had last year tested guided Pinaka rocket system which has a range of 70-90 km, but this improved version of Mk-1, which was test-fired today, can fill a critical gap of hitting targets that are not so far away. The guided Pinaka is more of a missile that can be pin-pointed on the target. “The enhanced Pinaka has been developed to counter the People’s Liberation Army threat in East Ladakh with the Chinese deploying large number of rocket regiments in support of artillery guns. The rocket regiments are central to Chinese war fighting for saturation bombardment of the targets. The enhanced Pinaka and guided Pinaka have both been cleared for deployment on the borders,”said a senior DRDO official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-successfully-test-fires-enhanced-version-of-pinaka-rocket-system/story-waLts08Nqlq01cwHhACqjN.html
04-11-2020||India||Govt says domestic airlines can operate 60% of their pre-Covid domestic passenger flights till February 24 next year||The Indian government on Wednesday said that domestic airlines can operate 60 per cent of their pre-Covid flights till February 24 next year, news agency PTI reported.The decision has been taken by the civil aviation ministry due to the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the country, PTI further reported.The number of daily Covid-19 cases have been dropping in India over the past few weeks. But on Wednesday, it recorde a 20 per cent jump in the daily caseload, according to Union health ministry data.In the last 24 hours (till Wednesday morning), India recorded 46,253 fresh cases of the infection as against 38,310 on Tuesday, according to health ministry.The total active cases on Wednesday morning stood at 5,33,787 while the total tally reached 83,13,877.The civil aviation ministry had last month announced increasing the limited domestic flight operations from 45 per cent to 60 per cent.The government had resumed domestic flight operations on May 25, two months after the national lockdown was announced to stop the spread of Covid-19. The operations began in a calibrated manner with 30 per cent capacity to ensure social distancing was followed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-says-domestic-airlines-can-operate-60-of-their-pre-covid-domestic-passenger-flights-till-february-24-next-year/story-ScrAoAiTvbEMDpKZFlOPnL.html
04-11-2020||India||Thankful to police for action against Arnab Goswami: Anvay Naik’s family||Soon after Alibag police arrested Editor-in-Chief of Republic TV Arnab Goswami for abetting the suicide of 53-year interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother Kumud Naik in 2018, his wife and daughter Akshata and Adnya Naik thanked the Maharashtra police for taking action in the case.“We can’t forget the year 2018. We want to thank Maharashtra Police for standing by a daughter of Maharashtra,” Akshata told reporters.“My husband in his suicide note had mentioned three names but no action was taken against them. Arnab Goswami is behind my husband’s death and I request every single Indian not to help him. Maharashtra police’s action is justice for us,” said Akshata Naik.Adnya said, “My father spent his money, energy, blood and sweat on the project. Despite all that, Goswami ensured my father did not get his dues. He continuously threatened my father saying that he will finish his career and my career.” Adnya also levelled allegations against the former investigating officer in the case Suresh Wadare.“Between February and March 2019 we had gone to Alibag police station to collect my father’s suicide note and chemical analysis report. The investigation officer Suresh Wadare asked us to sign a paper and when we read it we found that they had mentioned a line the paper which read ‘We have filed this complaint to take revenge and now we want to take our case back.’ I remember this line but not the entire content. After reading the paper, I tried to take a picture of that which the officer opposed and then he tore the page and asked us to leave,” Adnya said.Adnya also alleged that Arnaab was treated with privilege when he did not deserve it.“Why was Arnab given privilege as an accused? Is he some god? His statement was recorded in the joint CP’s office in Mumbai police commissionerate. We met former Mumbai police commissioner Sanjay Barve at that time. We met Anil Paraskar, SP Raigad several times and also wrote to PMO India. But no one helped us,” She said her father’s case had been closed and she and her mother were not even aware of it.“On my father’s death anniversary on May 5, 2020, we decided to raise our voice for justice and we uploaded some videos. Few days later Republic issued a statement on their Twitter handle saying that police had filed closure report in this case. It is then that we came to know that our case has been closed. The investigation was botched up earlier,” added Adnya.She claimed they had filed four complaints after they started getting threats. “We have filed four complaints in 2020. Two at Murbad and two at Dadar police station after my mother and I started getting threats and people started following us,” said AdnyaWhen a journalist questioned them on which political party has supported them, Akshata said, “We don’t want to make it a political issue. We just want justice and a fair investigation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thankful-to-police-for-action-against-arnab-goswami-anvay-naik-s-family/story-qpIVp5MWg9yiTSiSai1wtL.html
04-11-2020||India||Maharashtra govt allows cinema halls to open with 50% occupancy from Nov 5||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday allowed the reopening of cinema halls, theatres, multiplexes and yoga institutes outside the containment zones from November 5 (Thursday). These places have been shut for over seven months in view of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic which has been particularly severe in Maharashtra.Cinema halls, theatres, multiplexes and drama theatres have been allowed to operate with 50 per cent seating capacity, as per the state government order. However, outside eatables will not be allowed inside the auditorium.All these establishments were closed since lockdown was imposed to contain coronavirus in March. Last month, the state government had allowed hotels and bars to reopen.Follow live updates on coronavirus here The Maharashtra government has also allowed yoga centres that are outside the containment zones to reopen from November 5. Swimming pools too can resume operations for training purposes of state, national and international level sportsperson, the order said.Other indoor sports facilities such as badminton halls, tennis, squash courts, indoor shooting ranges will also be allowed to operate from Thursday.The order has asked these places to ensure Covid-19 protocols, like physical distancing and sanitisation, are followed.The remaining lockdown restrictions have already been extended till November 30.The government’s move comes at a time when Maharashtra has nearly 1.69 million cases and over 44,000 people have died of the disease. Over 1.5 million people have recovered from the infection either in home isolation or have been discharged from hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-govt-allows-cinema-halls-to-open-with-50-occupancy-from-nov-5/story-y6Sw2NBeBuwsnBAyRlGRcP.html
04-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Presidency in US hinges on tight races in northern battleground states and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times US Election 2020: Presidency hinges on tight races in northern battleground statesThe fate of the United States presidency hung in the balance Wednesday morning, as President Donald Trump and Democratic challenger Joe Biden battled for three familiar battleground states — Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania — that could prove crucial in determining who wins the White House. Read moreDelhi reporting third Covid-19 wave, says CM Arvind KejriwalDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said that the national capital is reporting a “third wave” of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. The CM said that the Delhi government would move the Supreme Court (SC) later on Wednesday to vacate the stay imposed by the Delhi high court (HC) on the city administration’s order of reserving 80% of the intensive care unit (ICU) beds for Covid-19 patients in 33 private hospitals. Read moreUS Election 2020: Outcome unlikely to impact ties between two countries, says foreign secretary Harsh ShringlaThe outcome of the American presidential election is unlikely to impact India’s relationship with the US as it is based on bipartisan support, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla has said.Presidential candidate Joe Biden has made it “very clear that he values a strong India-US strategic partnership”, and this is common to both Biden and US President Donald Trump, Shringla said in an interview with DW News channel. Read moreFarm laws: At Jantar Mantar protest, Punjab CM flays those calling his state anti-nationalPunjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday came down heavily on those calling his state “anti-national” and asserted that tens and thousands of Punjabi soldiers are deployed in borders along China and Pakistan to preserve the peace of the country. “Please don’t think Punjab is out to disturb the peace of the country. It is not. We are there to preserve the peace of the country. We have given blood many times in the past and we will never shy away from doing so in future,’ Singh said. Read moreICC ODI Rankings: Babar Azam closes in on Virat Kohli, Rohit Sharma after heroics against ZimbabwePakistan captain Babar Azam showcased a dominant performance in the three-match ODI series against Zimbabwe. Azam scored 221 runs in the series in 3 games including a sensational knock of 125 in the 2nd ODI. Because of his batting efforts, the batsman gained 8 points to reach a total of 837 points. While Babar remained at the third position in the rankings behind Virat Kohli (871) and Rohit Sharma (855), he managed to close the gap with the two Indian stars. Read moreAditi Rao Hydari in an Aztec tie up crop-top and denims make us absolutely love the flirty feminine vibesSetting the mercury soaring again with her hot glamorous looks is Padmaavat actor Aditi Rao Hydari and this time with her sultry boho-chic look. After nailing some sartorial festive looks that were hands down fashion inspiration this week, Aditi was recently seen stepping up casual glam by channeling bohemian vibes and we are totally digging for the flirty feminine vibes it sent across. Read moreMahindra Thar 2020 surges past 20,000, waiting period extends to 7 monthsMahindra Thar 2020 SUV is continuing its trend of setting the bookings chart on fire since it was officially launched on October 2. In the little over a month, Mahindra and Mahindra has received over 20,000 bookings for Thar 2020, making it one of the most successful launches of the year and product from the car maker. Read more‘How many voices will you suppress Sonia Sena?’: Kangana on Arnab’s arrestKangana Ranaut has lashed out at the Maharashtra government over the arrest of Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami. In a video message posted on Twitter, Kangana questioned how many voices would the Maharashtra government suppress and added that many free speech greats have been hanged before them. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-presidency-in-us-hinges-on-tight-races-in-northern-battleground-states-and-all-the-latest-news/story-F6zCCciL6Ze302HYfhg0JP.html
04-11-2020||India||Bineesh Kodiyeri’s residence, many locations in Kerala raided in drug case||The house of Bineesh Kodiyeri - son of the state secretary of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), Kodiyeri Balakrishnan - and seven other spots in Thiruvananthapuram were raided on Wednesday by the Enforcement Directorate probing the money laundering case related to Bengaluru drug haul even as the state government withdrew general consent given to the Central Bureau of Investigation. A joint team of ED and Income Tax searched the house of Kodiyeri and business establishments of his friends and partners simultaneously. The central agencies were given the Central Reserve Police Force protection. There were intelligence reports that left youth outfits may protest against the raid. Arrested on October 29, Kodiyeri is under the ED custody in Bengaluru. He landed in trouble after the Bengaluru drug racket accused Anoop Mohammad gave a statement to the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), saying that Kodiyeri had helped him a lot in his “business venture”. Later his name also figured in the call list of Mohammad. He was arraigned as the sixth accused in the money laundering case connected to drug haul. During investigation in the gold smuggling case, multiple agencies also found that drug and smuggling cases were interconnected. One of the accused in gold smuggling KT Ramees and alleged drug peddler Mohammad were thick friends. They also found that Ramees had made several trips to Bengaluru before his arrest. The ED suspects that huge properties owned by Kodiyeri in Kerala and Karnataka might have been bought with the proceeds of narcotics and gold smuggling.Meanwhile, the government has decided to withdraw the general consent given to the CBI to investigate cases in the state like four other opposition-ruled states.“We will not allow free run of central agencies in the state. They are in a race to portray the state government in bad light,” said state law minister AK Balan.Last month, the state government had to rush to the High Court to quash the CBI probe into the Life Mission project. The court stayed it for two months. It is a scheme to build free dwelling units for the homeless, but irregularities came to light when central agencies were probing the gold smuggling case. When lockers of the main accused in the smuggling case, Swapna Suresh, were opened they got Rs one crore cash and two kg gold. Later she reportedly told agencies that this was the commission she received for clinching a deal with an international aid agency ‘Red Crescent’, which funded the Life Mission project in Vadakkanchery in the Thrissur district. The anti-corruption unit of the CBI later registered a case under the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA). But the state government maintained that it will not come under the purview of the FCRA and moved the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bineesh-kodiyeri-s-residence-many-locations-in-kerala-raided-in-drug-case/story-Wlrl3AAoA9rvkLrqtqUSdM.html
04-11-2020||India||Gujarat: Death toll due to fire in godown rises to 12||The death toll due to a fire at a godown storing chemicals located at the Piplaj road in the outskirts of Ahmedabad rose to 12 on Wednesday night, news agency ANI reported. The rescue operations have been completed. Officials earlier stated that the incident occurred when portion of a godown storing chemicals collapsed after a power explosion ripped through it. Fire brigade personnel rushed to the spot on learning about the explosion and rescued 18 people from the debris and shifted them to LG Hospital in ‘108’ ambulances, chief fire officer MF Dastur said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Ashok Munia mentioned that an investigation has been ordered into this incident. Meanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed condolences and said authorities were providing all possible assistance to the affected. “Anguished by the loss of lives due to a fire in a godown in Ahmedabad. Condolences to the bereaved families. Prayers with the injured. Authorities are providing all possible assistance to the affected”, Modi tweeted.  Anguished by the loss of lives due to a fire in a godown in Ahmedabad. Condolences to the bereaved families. Prayers with the injured. Authorities are providing all possible assistance to the affected.President Ram Nath Kovind too took to Twitter and said he was distressed to learn about the loss of lives and wished speedy recovery for those injured. “Distressed to learn about the loss of lives in a fire that broke out in a godown in Ahmedabad, Gujarat. My thoughts and prayers are with the bereaved families. I wish speedy recovery for the injured,” Kovind tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-killed-as-godown-collapses-after-explosion-in-gujarat/story-qwjsJGVmD1MivtUsIV3nSI.html
04-11-2020||India||News Broadcasters Association condemns manner of Arnab Goswami’s arrest||The arrest of Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami has been criticised by the News Broadcasters Association (NBA). Condemning the manner in which Goswami was arrested, the NBA urged Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to ensure that the journalist is treated fairly.“Even though the NBA does not agree with his type of journalism, we denounce retaliatory action, if any by the authorities against a media editor. Media is not above the law but due process must be followed,” it said.The association, headed by senior journalist Rajat Sharma, further urged Thackeray to ensure that the state’s power is not misused for vendetta.The NBA is a regulatory body formed by current affairs and news television broadcasters in India in 2007.Goswami was arrested by the police from his residence in Lower Parel in the early hours of Wednesday for allegedly abetting the suicide of a 53-year-old interior designer named Anvay Naik in 2018.The police also arrested Firoz Shaikh, founder of IcastX Technologies Pvt Ltd, and Nitesh Sarda, founder of Smartworks who were the other two accused in the case.The police said that they found a suicide note in which Anvay alleged that he was forced to end his life because he was not paid his dues amounting to Rs 5.40 crore by Goswami and two others.The designer’s wife and daughter addressed a press conference on Wednesday afternoon and thanked the Maharashtra Police for taking the requisite action. They claimed the case was suppressed and no action was taken during Devendra Fadnavis’ tenure as chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-broadcasters-association-condemns-manner-of-arnab-goswami-s-arrest/story-ctvh5awYCr3ou0np0G0zPO.html
04-11-2020||India||Harassed by stalker, woman in MP’s Hoshangabad dies by suicide||A 20-year-old woman died by suicide on Tuesday in Hoshangabad, 76 km north of Bhopal, after she was allegedly harassed by a stalker, police said. Police arrested the alleged stalker Taleem Khan, 25, a photographer, late Tuesday night after the woman accused him in her suicide note, said Santosh Singh Gaur, superintendent of police (SP), Hoshangabad. A few days ago, the woman’s brother beat Taleem Khan for allegedly harassing his sister but no police complaint was lodged by the family members, said the SP. He said, “The woman, who was a first year student of Bachelor of Science (BSc), and the accused used to live in the same locality but they interacted a few times over Instagram. The woman used to treat him like her brother but Taleem started harassing her.” “Taleem used to follow her and used to pass obscene comments. He was forcing her for marriage. The woman was upset with regular harassment and killed herself. She was found hanging from a ceiling fan of her room on Tuesday morning,” said Manju Chauhan, sub-divisional officer of police (SDOP), Hoshangabad. Taleem was arrested on Tuesday night for sexually harassing her and for abetting suicide. He was produced in a court which sent him to judicial remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/harassed-by-stalker-woman-in-mp-s-hoshangabad-dies-by-suicide/story-mVvnSZNEEK6Xavh0LQT9LO.html
04-11-2020||India||‘Assaulted by police during arrest’, claims Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami||Hours after he was arrested, Republic TV editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami was produced before a court in Mumbai on Wednesday where he claimed that he was assaulted by police officials.Goswami said told the court that he suffered injuries on his hand, back and finger due to the assault. Following his allegation, he was sent back to the Alibaug police station where a civil surgeon has been asked to verify the claims. Goswami’s lawyer Gaurav Parker said that he will be produced again in the court this evening. The news anchor was arrested on Wednesday morning from his Mumbai house in connection with the death of interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother Kumud Naik. The mother-son duo was found dead in May 2018. Anvay was found dead at his first floor residence while his mother’s body was found on the ground floor on the bed. According to a suicide note, Anvay alleged that he and his mother were forced to end their lives because he was not paid his dues amounting to Rs 5.40 crore by Arnab and two others identified as Feroz Shaikh and Nitesh Sarda - owners of two different firms. Also Read| ‘No one is above the law’: Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Arnab Goswami’s arrestIn 2018, the Alibaug police had filed a case of abetment to suicide but in 2019 the case was closed by Raigad Police.The arrest comes at a time when an investigation against Goswami is underway in the TRP fraud case.While Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut asserted that due law and procedures were followed in the arrest of Goswami, many BJP leaders have come out in support of the journalist terming the incident “shameful”.BJP chief JP Nadda drew a parallel to the Emergency in 1975, saying, “India didn’t forgive Indira Gandhi for the Emergency. India never forgave Rajiv Gandhi for his assault on press freedom. And now, India will again punish Sonia-Rahul Gandhi for their brazen and intimidating use of state power to get equal with journalists.”Also Read: Action followed law, no revenge under Sena government, says Sanjay Raut on Arnab Goswami’s arrestUnion finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman also slammed the Maharashtra government and questioned where were media associations now. “Is the #MVA government in Maharashtra replaying #IndiraGandhi’s Emergency? Where are self-appointed guardians of #FoE in this #ArnabGoswami episode, which goes above & beyond ideological/political differences with a fellow journalist? No media ‘guilds’/Associations/Unions today?” she wrote on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assaulted-by-police-during-arrest-claims-republic-tv-editor-arnab-goswami/story-GAQ6piv57rsb9TGpAMaUDL.html
04-11-2020||India||Uttarakhand cops on alert against possible protests over French President’s remarks||Uttarakhand police has issued a high alert in all the 13 districts of the state to prevent any possible violence over the controversial remarks by French President on Islam after terror attacks following a row over cartoons of prophet Mohammed, officials said on Tuesday.The move came after certain Muslim groups held protests against President Emmanuel Macron a few days ago in Dehradun and other cities of the state. Ashok Kumar, director general (law & order) Uttarakhand police confirmed the development and said, “The alert has been issued as a precautionary measure to prevent any possible violence over the French President’s statements.” Kumar said, “I have directed all the senior superintendents of police and superintendents of police of the districts to ensure that law and order is maintained. I have asked them to take strict action against anyone indulging in violence in the ongoing festive season.” Another police officer privy to the development said on the condition of anonymity, “The alert was issued on the directions received on the same from the ministry of home affairs to ensure law and order in the country. We have followed the directions and taking necessary action to prevent any untoward incident.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-cops-on-alert-against-possible-protests-over-french-president-s-remarks/story-YwOMXYKJM8n99xZbdbK2KP.html
04-11-2020||India||Farm laws: At Jantar Mantar protest, Punjab CM flays those calling his state anti-national||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday came down heavily on those calling his state “anti-national” and asserted that tens and thousands of Punjabi soldiers are deployed in borders along China and Pakistan to preserve the peace of the country. “Please don’t think Punjab is out to disturb the peace of the country. It is not. We are there to preserve the peace of the country. We have given blood many times in the past and we will never shy away from doing so in future,’ Singh said. He made the remark while addressing a gathering at a protest launched by lawmakers from Punjab against the Centre’s recently-enacted farm laws at Jantar Mantar in the national capital.Also read | Chhattisgarh passes amendment bill to counter Centre’s farm billsThe protests was organised after President Ram Nath Kovind reportedly refused to meet a delegation from the state, led by CM Singh, on three farm bills passed by the state assembly in October. Earlier on Wednesday morning, Singh along with some Congress Members of Parliament (MPs) and legislators from Punjab paid tributes to Father of the Nation Mahatma Gandhi at Raj Ghat in the national capital. “Never think that Punjab will do anything anti-national. We have Pakistan as our neighbour, which is continuously trying to provoke us by sending up to three drones daily to drop arms and ammunition. These weapons are likely to go into the hands of criminals and anti-nationals. We have shared our inputs and apprehensions with the Central government. We don’t want trouble in Punjab because it is a border state. If law and order situation worsens in Punjab, then it will impact the country’s security,” Singh added. Former Punjab minister Navjot Singh Sidhu also joined the protest, indicating a thaw in his ties with the CM at the intervention of the Congress leadership. Lok Insaaf Party legislator Simranjit Singh Bains, Punjabi Ekta Party lawmaker Sukhpal Khaira and Shiromani Akali Dal (Democratic) legislator Parminder Singh Dhindsa were also present on the occasion. The Congress, many other opposition parties and several farmers’ organisations have been protesting against the recent farm legislations, alleging that these will harm the interests of farmers and benefit corporate entities. The claim has been denied by the Narendra Modi-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government. The Centre has asserted that these new laws would be beneficial for farmers and would also increase their income. The three farm bills -- the Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020; the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 -- were passed by Parliament in September. In October, the Punjab assembly adopted a resolution, rejecting the Centre’s new farm laws and passed three bills to counter the contentious legislation enacted by Parliament. Singh urged President Kovind to give his assent to the farm bills submitted to Punjab Governor VP Singh Badnore on October 20. The CM invoked former Union minister Arun Jaitley and said the late Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader had asked the BJP-ruled states in 2016 to make their own laws on Concurrent List of Business in line with the provisions in the Constitution to override the land acquisition law passed by the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government in 2013. “The bills are with the Raj Bhavan. I don’t know why the Governor is holding back these bills. He has no role to play. A Governor is only a post box and it is his duty to forward any such bill to the President. He doesn’t have to give any comments,” the CM said. “I wanted to meet President Kovind because he is the head of our country and it is my duty to brief him on both law and order and food security situation in my state. It is for him to take a call. We hope that he will give his assent to the bills,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-at-jantar-mantar-protest-punjab-cm-flays-those-calling-his-state-anti-national/story-YseTCYzFzLjxnoZ4dWzfxL.html
04-11-2020||India||Minor girl in Bhopal allegedly raped for 7 years by brother-in-law||A minor girl was allegedly raped in Bhopal for seven years by her brother-in-law after she lost her parents, police said Tuesday. Police registered an FIR against the 32-year-old man under section 376 (rape) of IPC and under relevant sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act on Tuesday. Police are trying to nab the accused, who is absconding, said Sai Krishna Thota, superintendent of police, Bhopal (South). The crime came to light after the 16-year-old survivor shared her ordeal with her friend, with whom she works as a volunteer in a non-government organisation (NGO). The friend informed her seniors in the NGO. The NGO members counselled the girl and helped her in lodging the complaint with the police, said the SP. “The victim lost her parents when she was just 9-year-old in 2014. Her elder sister and her husband, who is the accused, took her and her elder brother to their home to take care of them. The accused raped her after a few weeks of taking the girl home. He raped her many a time at a rented accommodation of his friend. He threatened her of dire consequences if she reported the crime to anyone. A few years ago, the girl shifted to some other place with her brother, who got a job. The girl also started working with the NGO since a few months ago,” said the officer. The girl recently shared her ordeal with her friend. When some NGO members to whom her friend conveyed the girl’s sufferings at her brother-in-law’s hand they talked to the girl but she did not open up. However, after counselling she mustered courage to tell them what had happened to her all these years. She lodged a complaint with TT Nagar police station on Monday, said Manoj Dave, town inspector TT Nagar police station. “An investigation is going on,” Dave said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minor-girl-in-bhopal-allegedly-raped-for-7-years-by-brother-in-law/story-wsK86EJrPagmKmssTftB5K.html
04-11-2020||India||In BHU hospital, pregnant women undergo ‘garbh sanskar’ therapy for ‘cultured, virtuous’ babies||The faculty of Ayurveda, Banaras Hindu University and Sir Sundar Lal Hospital, IMS-BHU have started a garbh sanskar therapy for pregnant women to inculcate good values in the unborn child while it is in its mother’s womb. Designed by a professor of Ayurveda, the garbh sanskar is being imparted to pregnant women in the department of prasuti tantra (obstetrics) in the faculty of Ayurveda, the exercise began in the last week of September.Medical superintendent of Sir Sundar Lal Hospital of BHU, Prof SK Mathur said, “Garbh sanskar is not a new thing. In Ayurveda, it has been performed since long. In the absence of its scientific validation, the practice didn’t get due importance. Now, garbh sanskar therapy has been restarted in the department of prasuti tantra (obstetrics), in the faculty of Ayurveda.” “It is a proven fact that good environment and good music have a very positive impact on the mind. Under garbh sanskar, pregnant women will be advised to listen to good music, read good literature and watch motivational and positive serials. Impact of these things on the baby in the mother’s womb will be examined through scientific techniques,” Prof Mathur said. He said, “We are trying to scientifically validate the practice of garbh sanskar.” Dr Sunita Suman, head, department of Prasuti Tantra, faculty of Ayurveda, IMS-BHU is in-charge of the garbh sanskar therapy .“Four to five pregnant women are explained about the Garbh Sanskar and are given Garbh Sankar therapy at the department daily,” she said.Dr Anuradha Roy, assistant professor at department of prasuti tantra, faculty of Ayurveda, IMS-BHU, said, “There are 16 sanskaras mentioned in Ayurveda and one of them is garbh sanskar. Various mythological stories support the importance of garbh sanskar that means educating a child in the mother’s womb.” For example, Abhimanyu learned the breaking of six circles of chakravyuh (phalanx) in his mother’s womb, according to the epic Mahabharat. “Garbh sanskar is parenting of a child in the mother’s womb where garbh means ‘womb’ and ‘sanskar’ is the ethics or the values. Garbh sanskar is teaching the baby ethics inside the mother’s womb,” Dr Roy said. Dr Roy has framed and developed an online model course on garbh sanskar which is available on the BHU portal. She said garbh sanskar helped give birth to a “cultured, vigorous, virtuous, healthy, beautiful child with a divine soul and high IQ”. It was scientifically proven that external stimuli and hormonal release from the mother had stronger effects on the intra-uterine fetus, she said. “Garbh sanskar includes month wise ante-natal care, diet and regime plan according to month of pregnancy, music therapy (advice of listening good classical and spiritual music), yogasana, mantra chanting, specific linen and textile clothing, counseling etc all as per Ayurveda,” she said. Dr Roy said Ayurveda always emphasized on ‘pregnancy by choice and not by chance’ and intrauterine fetus was just like clay which could be moulded the desired way.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-bhu-hospital-pregnant-women-undergo-garbh-sanskar-therapy-for-cultured-virtuous-babies/story-OltH4G5DHRcYRSh1r3OgZO.html
04-11-2020||India||UNESCO declares Panna Tiger Reserve a biosphere reserve||Panna Tiger Reserve (PTR) in Madhya Pradesh (MP) was included in the global network of biosphere reserves by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) last week, said an official report. Union Minister for environment, forest and climate change Prakash Javdekar congratulated PTR authorities via a social media post for their stellar effort to conserve tigers. The post accompanied a 50-second video of tigers in the reserve. The UNESCO’s recognition cited PTR as a critical tiger habitat. “The area has undergone substantial ecosystem restoration in the buffer zone. With only three urban centres and over 300 villages, agriculture is the main source of income together with horticulture, forestry and cultural and eco-tourism,” the UNESCO stated. Also read | Roosting site with rare vultures found near Madhya Pradesh’s Panna Tiger Reserve“PTR was notified as a biosphere reserve by the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC ) in 2011 and after nine years the UNESCO included it in the Man and Biosphere programme,” said Alok Kumar, principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF), (wildlife), MP. “It’s a proud moment for us because the MP forest department did a lot of hard work to create a conducive environment in PTR to reintroduce the population of tigers. In 2008, PTR had lost all its tigers. The forest department had reintroduced a male and a female tiger in 2009 and within a decade the animal’s population increased to over 50,” Kumar said. “Local villages also played a key role in conservation. Panna Nature Club authorities tried to sensitise local villagers about PTR’s vegetation and wildlife. The villagers responded in a positive manner and the landscape did not report a single man-animal conflict through the years,” he said However, Kumar expressed concern about poaching, as a tiger was recently killed by a poacher in the reserve.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unesco-declares-panna-tiger-reserve-a-biosphere-reserve/story-UeIXY6iH9nlAfvI0CRvlsM.html
04-11-2020||India||Kerala withdraws consent to CBI for probes in state||Kerala on Wednesday joined the list of non-BJP-ruled states of West Bengal, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra to withdraw its general consent given to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The decision, which was on the table for quite some time, was finalised in the Cabinet meeting. From now on, the probe agency will have to seek prior permission from the state government before registering a case in the state.Recently, Maharashtra’s Maha Vikas Aghadi government decided to block the CBI in the stats. The decision saw an uproar as the decision was announced a day after CBI decided to investigate the TRP scam in Maharashtra. The state government is at a critical juncture where it is raging several wars against the Centre. Blocking CBI in the state, therefore, was seen as a salvo against the Centre which raised doubt over Mumbai Police’s investigation into Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. Also Read: Maharashtra withdraws consent to CBI for probes in stateCBI comes under the DSPE Act and it requires states to give the agency a general consent to act against central government employees within a state as public order and police come under the state governments, which routinely renew this permission.In late 2018, West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh withdrew the general consent to CBI for investigations, alleging that the Centre was misusing the agency to harass opponents. However, the government of YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, which came into power in Andhra 2019, reversed the decision.Chhattisgarh, ruled by the Congress, withdrew the general consent to CBI in January 2019. And in July 2020, the Ashok Gehlot-led government in Rajasthan followed suit.The Kerala government and the CBI are at odds owing to the latter’s ongoing probe into Life Mission, a state housing project for the homeless. The CBI was probing alleged irregularities in this project. In October, the Kerala high court stayed CBI investigation considering a plea by the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-withdraws-consent-to-cbi-for-probes-in-state/story-P5e1yvYPMcggE1Gs7nnybP.html
04-11-2020||India||Man hacks wife to death with axe in Uttarakhand’s Almora district||In a shocking incident, a 45-year-old man allegedly killed his wife by hacking her with an axe at his house in Binta area of Almora district on Monday, police said. The accused was arrested by the revenue police on Monday evening, and then sent to jail on Tuesday, said officials. Leena Chandra Dhami, tehsildar and revenue police officer said that the incident happened on Monday noon at a remote village of Binta area of the district in which the accused Dayakishan Joshi hacked his wife Bina Joshi.“After receiving information, revenue police reached the village and nabbed Joshi from his house. The weapons including the axe and a stick used in the crime were also recovered from the spot. Later during interrogation, Joshi confessed to the crime,” said Dhami. She also said that during the initial probe, Joshi’s daughter told police that he killed her mother after being enraged over her talking to someone over the phone. “Bina was speaking to someone over the phone when Joshi confronted her to tell him the name of the person she was speaking to, but she didn’t. That enraged him after which he killed her. The initial investigation suggests that he killed her after suspecting her character,” said Dhami. “The accused was presented in the local court on Tuesday which later sent him to jail,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-hacks-wife-to-death-with-axe-in-uttarakhand-s-almora-district/story-MYP3wLQE4Cm14e8BOS0pVO.html
04-11-2020||India||‘No one is above the law’: Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Arnab Goswami’s arrest||Speaking on the arrest of Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami, Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Wednesday said “no one is above the law,” adding that the state police will “work as per the law.”Also Read | Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami arrested in 2018 suicide abetment case“No one is above the law. Maharashtra Police will work as per the law,” Deshmukh said, hours after Goswami was arrested by Maharashtra Police in connection with a 2018 alleged abetment to suicide case. No one is above the law. Maharashtra Police will work as per the law: Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh https://t.co/qJ9p67TxIV pic.twitter.com/UsvIhmrgs8In May, Deshmukh, as Maharashtra’s home minister, had ordered a re-investigation into alleged death by suicide of 53-year-old interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother Kumud Naik. In a suicide note, Naik had written he was taking the step as he was not being paid collective dues amounting to Rs 5.40 crore by Goswami and two others.Following this, an FIR was registered by Alibaug Police against the three, including Goswami, but the case was closed by Raigad Police in 2019 before being its reopening was ordered by Deshmukh.Also Read | Arnab Goswami detained: All you need to know about abetment to suicide caseEarlier, speaking on the arrest, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut, too, had said the arrest of Goswami followed “due law and procedure.” The Sena is one of the three parties currently governing Maharashtra, with the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP)--to which Deshmukh belongs--and the Congress being the other two.Also Read | Action followed law, no revenge under Sena government, says Sanjay Raut on Arnab Goswami’s arrestGoswami’s arrest, which follows months of tussle with the Maharashtra government and the Mumbai Police over his channel’s coverage of a host of issues, has kicked up a political storm. Several leaders from the state’s opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), as well as central ministers, including Union home minister Amit Shah, have condemned his arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-one-is-above-the-law-maharashtra-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-on-arnab-goswami-s-arrest/story-wzH6DmzG0stU9DGSCBNCpL.html
04-11-2020||India||Deepika Padukone’s ‘former’ manager questioned by NCB in Mumbai||Bollywood actor Deepika Padukone’s manager Karishma Prakash on Wednesday reached the Narcotics Control Bureau office in Mumbai after being allegedly untraceable for days. Karishma Prakash was summoned by the NCB after it claimed to have seized 1.7 gm of hashish during a raid ar her residence. The agency had said Prakash went missing after she didn’t reply to the summons of the agency.Prakash applied for an anticipatory bail before her questioning on Wednesday. A Mumbai court ordered that Prakash can’t be arrested till November 7.Meanwhile, reports claimed that Karishma has already resigned from the talent agency, KWAN. Hence, she is not associated with Deepika Padukone any more. According to news agency ANI, NCB has also summoned the employees of KWAN Talent Agency, which has become one of the foci of the Bollywood drug probe. The alleged drug links of Bollywood celebs, including A-listers, came to the fore following the federal agency’s investigation into the death of Rajput on June 14 at his apartment in Mumbai’s residence. Many celebrities including Padukone, Sara Ali Khan, Rakul Preet Singh and Shraddha Kapoor have been questioned by NCB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deepika-padukone-s-former-manager-questioned-by-ncb-in-mumbai/story-s2EkZKIjlaaG5SczCCv4WK.html
04-11-2020||India||‘Blatant misuse of state power’: Amit Shah slams arrest of Arnab Goswami||Union home minister Amit Shah on Wednesday took to Twitter to slam the arrest of journalist Arnab Goswami in connection with a two-year-old case of abetment to suicide.The Republic Television editor, who is at loggerheads with the Maharashtra state government over a slew of recent incidents including Sushant Singh Rajput death investigation, TRP scam etc, was detained by Alibaugh Police on Wednesday morning. Republic Television has alleged that he and his family members were manhandled by the police. Later he was arrested and was being taken to Alibaugh.Several Union ministers including Prakash Javadekar, Ravi Shankar Prasad, Smriti Irani denounced the attack on press freedom. BJP chief JP Nadda too termed the arrest as ‘shameful’.  Congress and its allies have shamed democracy once again.Blatant misuse of state power against Republic TV & Arnab Goswami is an attack on individual freedom and the 4th pillar of democracy.It reminds us of the Emergency. This attack on free press must be and WILL BE OPPOSED.Blaming the Congress and allies for “shaming democracy”, Amit Shah said the incident is a “blatant misuse of state power” against Republic TV and Arnab Goswami. “It reminds us of the Emergency. This attack on free press must be and WILL BE OPPOSED,” the Union minister tweeted.The Republic Television has issued a statement and said all allegations against Arnab Goswami are unfounded. A 53-year-old interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother Kumud Naik died by suicide in Alibaug in May 2018. A suicide note purportedly written by Anvay was found in which he said that Goswami and two others — Feroz Shaikh and Niteish Sarda —had not paid him Rs 5.40 crore which led to his financial constraints.“ARG Outlier Media Pvt Ltd has paid over 90 per cent of the amounts due to deceased Anvay Naik’s company Concorde Designs Pvt Ltd as per the terms of the work orders issued, over two years ago. The remaining sum was to be paid on completion of the pending work which has since not been undertaken. Repeated attempts were made by ARG Outlier Media Pvt Ltd to make the balance payment to CDPL, for full and final settlement of all claims. We have full correspondence regarding this matter and proof that the absence of shareholders or directors in CDPL, has made all such attempts infructuous,” the television channel said in its statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/blatant-misuse-of-state-power-amit-shah-slams-arrest-of-arnab-goswami/story-GzWXk4BNymuivG4EVjPZfI.html
04-11-2020||India||Maharashtra: Internal tussle in Congress delays legislative council nominations||A tussle among senior Congress leaders over a Dalit candidate has held back the party’s list for nominations to the legislative council in Maharashtra, people familiar with the development said.There are 12 vacancies in the Maharashtra legislative council, the upper house in the state legislature, from the governor’s quota and each constituent of the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) -- the Shiv Sena, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress – will be nominating four candidates each. Under Article 171 of the Constitution, the Governor can nominate to the legislative council members having special knowledge or practical experience in literature, science, art, cooperative movement and social service. While the Shiv Sena and the NCP have finalised their respective lists, the Congress is still struggling to give final shape to its set of nominations and delayed the nominations. Also read | Rahul Gandhi targets PM Modi, Bihar CM Nitish Kumar over ‘poor development’ in BiharThe Congress has finalised its three names – Rajni Patil, Sachin Sawant and Muzaffar Hussain – and is now trying to resolve its internal tussle over the fourth seat. A Congress functionary said the party high command had vetoed the recommendations of the state unit after a section of Dalit leaders, including Maharashtra energy minister Nitin Raut, objected to the short-listing of Anirudha Dhonduji Wankar, an artist who contested the last year’s assembly elections from Chandrapur constituency as a candidate of the Prakash Ambedkar-led Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi (VBA). The Dalit leaders have urged the Congress high command to reconsider the decision to nominate him to the legislative council since he was an “outsider” and had “frequently switched sides” claiming that he was in the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) before joining the VBA. The infuriated Dalit leaders have insisted that party loyalists only should be given the nomination and also threatened to resign if their concerns are overlooked. The functionary further said Wankar’s nomination is being pushed by former Maharashtra chief minister Ashok Chavan while the party’s Scheduled Caste department, headed by Raut, had suggested the names of Rajendra Karwade and Ramesh Bagwe. Congress president Sonia Gandhi has taken the feedback from party in-charge HK Patil and state unit chief Balasaheb Thorat and asked them to also suggest few other names, he added. While the Shiv Sena is said to have nominated actor-turned-politician Urmila Matondkar, who quit the Congress last year after losing the 2019 Lok Sabha elections from Mumbai North, as one of its candidates, the NCP has recommended the names of former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Eknath Khadse, Dalit singer Anand Shinde, Dhangar leader Yashpal Bhinge and Raju Shetti, the head of the Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana, a farmers’ organisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-internal-tussle-in-congress-delays-legislative-council-nominations/story-KPLFLVHVt4qwL5yj0uR1pL.html
04-11-2020||India||Arnab Goswami arrested: Shameful, says BJP chief JP Nadda; ‘Who speaks if you are next’, asks Smriti Irani||The arrest of journalist, Republic Television editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami in a two-year old case of suicide abetment has created a stir on Wednesday morning. The journalist was first detained from his Mumbai residence and then arrested.BJP president JP Nadda took to Twitter and denounced the arrest without mincing ay word. Drawing a parallel to Emergency, he wrote, “India didn’t forgive Indira Gandhi for the Emergency. India never forgave Rajiv Gandhi for his assault on press freedom. And now, India will again punish Sonia-Rahul Gandhi for their brazen and intimidating use of state power to get equal with journalists.”Also Read: Action followed law, no revenge under Sena government, says Sanjay Raut on Arnab Goswami’s arrest India didn’t forgive Indira Gandhi for the Emergency. India never forgave Rajiv Gandhi for his assault on press freedom. And now, India will again punish Sonia-Rahul Gandhi for their brazen and intimidating use of state power to get equal with journalists.“Every person who believes in a free press and freedom of expression is furious at the Maharashtra Government’s bullying and harassment of Arnab Goswami. This is yet another instance of Sonia and Rahul Gandhi-directed antic of silencing those who disagree with them. Shameful!” he added.Union ministers Prakash Javadekar, Smriti Irani too condemned the arrest and blamed the Congress for the arrest.“Emergency came to an end in 1977 but the tendency of imposing it still persists. After Shiv Sena, which stood by the emergency and Congress, the party which imposed it joined hands in the state, the tendency has surfaced. Such attempts of suppressing the voice against government is detrimental to democracy. Country has always stood against such attempts,” former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis tweeted in Marathi.Though there has been no statement from the Maha Vikas Aghadi government on this arrest so far, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut quashed all these “vendetta” allegations and said that whatever has been done has followed due course of law.Maharashtra Congress’s general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant termed the arrest as a tribute to late Anway Naik. “Anway Naik and his mother were compelled to commit suicide after Arnab’s channel failed to pay his dues worth Rs 80 lakh. The Fadnavis government failed to investigate the case and do justice with the family of the deceased. There was a lot of political pressure on the then Fadnavis government to hush up the case for the obvious reasons. The Modi government was protecting Arnab just because his channel was taking their agenda forward. Instead of condemning the action against the culprit, the BJP should feel ashamed for their failure to accord justice to Naik family. We welcome the action taken by the MVA government,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arnab-goswami-arrested-shameful-says-bjp-chief-jp-nadda-who-speaks-if-you-are-next-asks-smriti-irani/story-GrIKydNoV1sGVvgDXFKbzH.html
04-11-2020||India||6-year-old in Jharkhand suspected of polio, samples sent to Kolkata’s IIS||The World Health Organization (WHO) coordinator in Jharkhand on Monday sent samples of 6-year-old boy a suspected of being by polio virus to the Indian Institute of Serology (IIS) in Kolkata to find whether it was the first confirmed case of polio in the past few years, officials said on Tuesday.The WHO had declared India polio-free in 2014 following a sustained aggressive programme of administering polio vaccine to newborns across the country by the Central government. However, in West Singhbhum district, where every second child is malnourished, samples of 64 children since 2014 have been sent to IIS for polio tests. Polio virus was not found in any of these samples tested till date. Polio is mostly prevalent among children under 15 years of age. “This is the first suspected case of polio from Manoharpur-Anandpur block in West Singhbhum district of Jharkhand. We have sent the stool sample of the 6-year-old boy to IIS-Kolkata for testing. The report will come in 15 days from IIS which will conclusively tell us if this is the first confirmed case of polio. If the presence of polio virus is not detected, we will further try to diagnose the reasons for the boy’s problems,” Dr Suman, WHO coordinator for Chaibasa, said.She said they would have to go for differential diagnosis to find out the exact reason for the weak and flabby muscles of the boy – acute flaccid paralysis (AFP) – if polio virus is not found in the testing.“Apart from polio, guillain barre syndrome (GBS), transverse myelitis, traumatic neuritis, transient paralysis, facial palsy and paresis too may lead to AFP. There is no reason to panic as of now because samples of 64 suspected cases of polio were sent to IIS from Chaibasa during the past three years and none have tested positive so far,” Dr Suman said.In 2018, 13 samples for suspected cases of polio 32 samples in 2019 from West Singhbhum were sent for testing to IIS-Kolkata. This year, 19 samples have been sent for testing so far. None of the samples since 2018 have tested positive.West Singhbhum district civil surgeon Dr OP Gupta said the doctors in Ispat General Hospital in Rourkela suspected that the boy had polio after testing there and sent their report to the Chaibasa Sadar Hospital (CSH). “We immediately decided to get tests done at IIS and informed the district WHO coordinator,” Dr Gupta said.The boy had been suffering from high fever for almost three weeks when he was admitted in Manoharpur CHC on October 16.He was then referred to IGH Rourkela on October 18 where doctors suspected that he was suffering from polio and informed the WHO wing in Rourkela, which intimated WHO Chaibasa wing. Block coordinator handed over the sample to WHO official Himanshu Bhusan on October 31.According to a 2018 study report by Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), the tribal dominated West Singhbhum district has one of the highest infant mortality rate (IMR) of 56, under 5 mortality rate (U5MR) of 96 in the country. Around 60% children below five years here are malnourished, the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-year-old-in-jharkhand-suspected-of-polio-samples-sent-to-kolkata-s-iis/story-kuqUb4qnRXNYfOHTPqOSaP.html
04-11-2020||India||CISF personnel at airports to use palm-top devices to register prohibited items||Around 1,000 prohibited items are recovered daily by Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel from passengers travelling from airports in Mumbai and other cities.So far, CISF personnel has been keeping a manual record of the seized items along with the passengers’ details. But the time-consuming process is set for a makeover soon.CISF personnel will receive palm-top devices, which will be connected to Automated Tray Retrieval System (ATRS), and will help them record the data quickly and efficiently. At present, a pilot project is in progress at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport in Hyderabad. Also read | Security ramped up at IGI airport after banned outfit calls for flights’ boycottThe new system will help CISF authorities to disengage their personnel in maintaining voluminous data and focus on their core responsibility of security mechanisms.“The personnel posted at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport in Hyderabad has been provided with hand-held palmtop devices for e- registration of seized items from passengers’ baggage due to security concerns,” said a CISF official. “The technology helps in entering and saving data of explosive trace detector (ETD) items removed electronically. The new mechanism will make it more convenient and faster than the existing manual entry of seized items in registers,” said a CISF official from Hyderabad. “We will provide our staff with a dedicated web portal that will download data and maintain records. The palmtop device is an Android-based mobile application (app) and will be connected to X-ray Baggage Inspection Systems (X-BIS) machine,” he added. CISF, which is in charge of security at most of the major airports in the country, has around 10,000 personnel deployed at airports in Delhi and Mumbai. “CISF personnel is also posted at Taj Santacruz, which is located within the premises of Terminal-1 of the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport in Mumbai. The palm-top devices will give CISF personnel more time for security work,” said an official posted at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cisf-personnel-at-airports-to-use-palm-top-devices-to-register-prohibited-items/story-AkioadqbrdmT4Fwo8ZhAlJ.html
04-11-2020||India||Arnab Goswami detained: All you need to know about abetment to suicide case||Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami was on Wednesday detained by the Mumbai Police in connection with a 2018 abetment to suicide case, marking yet another turn in his ongoing face-off with the force, as well as the Maharashtra government.Also Read: Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami detained in 2018 suicide abetment caseGoswami, after being assaulted by the Mumbai Police, as alleged by the Republic TV, has been detained under section 306 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), which pertains to abetment to suicide. The channel has also accused the police of assaulting his family, including his son.Here’s all you need to know about the 2018 abetment to suicide case:1. In May 2018, almost a year after Republic TV was launched, a 53-year-old interior designer, Anvay Naik, and his mother, committed suicide. In his suicide note, Naik alleged he was being forced to take this step as he was not paid dues collectively amounting to Rs 5.40 crore by Goswami and two others.2. Naik was the managing director of Concorde Designs Private Limited, which rendered services for Republic TV. After Naik and his mother’s suicide, Alibaug Police booked Goswami, Feroz Shaikh and Neetish Sarda for allegedly abetting their suicide.3. While Shaikh is from IcastX/Skimedia, a media services firm, Sarda is the founder of Smart Work. As per an FIR registered by the Alibaug Police, Shaikh didn’t pay Rs 4 crore while Sarda owed Naik Rs 55 lakh. 4. Meanwhile, ARG Outlier Media, which owns Republic TV, did not pay Naik Rs 83 lakh, the FIR further alleged.5. The case was closed by Raigad Police last year. However, in May, Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh ordered a re-investigation on the basis of a fresh complaint by Naik’s daughter, Adnya.6. The Maharashtra unit of the Congress, one of the three ruling parties in the state, had also put out a video of Naik’s wife, in which she reiterated the allegation against Goswami, which had led to an FIR being registered against him.7. Responding to the reopening of the case, Republic TV had put out a statement, hitting out at the Congress and accusing it of indulging in a “larger vindictive exercise against Republic Media Network.” The channel further claimed 90% dues had been paid to Naik and it had evidence to prove it had made repeated attempts to make a final settlement.8. Goswami and the Maharashtra government have been at loggerheads over a host of issues in recent days. Republic TV has been particularly critical of the state police’s handling of the Palghar lynching case, the Sushant Singh Rajput death case and was recently accused by the force of being involved in a ‘TRP scam.’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arnab-goswami-detained-all-you-need-to-know-about-abetment-to-suicide-case/story-KCQ0EbYsbqrIv7fKsi4f7H.html
04-11-2020||India||Karnataka to enact law against religious conversion for marriage: BJP Gen Secy||After Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh said they are considering laws against interfaith marriages, Karnataka became the fourth BJP-ruled state to take a similar stand.BJP’s national general secretary in-charge of South India, CT Ravi said Tuesday that the state government would bring a law to ban religious conversion for the sake of marriage. He also said that anyone involved in conversion activity shall face swift and severe punishment.Ravi recently resigned as the tourism minister of the state after being elevated as the national general secretary in the new team of BJP chief JP Nadda but the resignation is yet to be accepted formally by the Governor. “On lines of Allahabad High Court’s order, Karnataka will enact a law banning religious conversions for the sake of marriage. We will not remain silent when Jihadis strip the dignity of Our Sisters. Any one involved in the act of conversion shall face severe & swift punishment,” he said in a tweet.On Monday, deputy CM Ashwath Narayan had also said that the state would examine similar legislation being proposed in Uttar Pradesh before taking any concrete decision on religious conversion.Last month, the Allahabad High Court dismissed a writ petition filed by a married couple seeking police protection. The high court noted the woman was a Muslim and converted to Hinduism just a month before she got married. Interfaith relationships, euphemistically called love jihad by Hindu activists, have become a controversial issue in several states where Hindu right wingers allege that Muslim men “lure” gullible women for conversion. Many experts reject these allegations and say that adult men and women are free to convert under the constitutional right to freedom of religion.In February, the Union home ministry told Parliament that there was no definition of the term love jihad and no such cases were reported by agencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-to-enact-law-against-religious-conversion-for-marriage-bjp-gen-secy/story-wmV323mgUCN4hTKoSMyDUP.html
04-11-2020||India||Action followed law, no revenge under Sena government, says Sanjay Raut on Arnab Goswami’s arrest||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Wednesday asserted that the arrest of Republic Television editor Arnab Goswami followed due law and procedures. “Police can take action if they have evidence against anyone,” Raut said as questions were being raised over the sudden arrest of the journalist at a time when he has criticised the Maharashtra state government over Sushant Singh Rajput death case investigation, and the TRP scam probe against him.“Since the formation of the Thackeray government, no action has been taken against anyone for revenge,” Raut added after Union minister Prakash Javadekar slammed Maharashtra Police’s action as an attack on press freedom.Training his gun on the Congress which is part of the Uddhav Thackeray-led naha Vikas Aghadi government of Maharashtra, Javadekar said Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi are still fostering the mindset of Emergency. “We condemn the Congress, led by Sonia Gandhi & Rahul Gandhi, for its fascist and emergency mindset, which is on display in Maharashtra. People will give a befitting reply in a democratic manner,” the Union minister tweeted pointing towards a revenge theory behind Goswami’s arrest in a two-year-old case of abetment to suicide.Union minister Smriti Irani too came in support of Arnab Goswami. “Those in the free press who don’t stand up today in support of Arnab, you are now tactically in support of fascism. You may not like him, you may not approve of him,you may despise his very existence but if you stay silent you support suppression. Who speaks if you are next ?” she tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arrest-followed-law-no-revenge-under-sena-government-says-sanjay-raut-on-arnab-goswami-s-arrest/story-8SuAnWaVHKwNaE4gF5r7SJ.html
04-11-2020||India||Covid-19: Do not overuse experimental therapies, warn AIIMS doctors||Doctors at New Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) have warned against overusing drugs such as Remdesivir and Tocilizumab for the treatment of Covid-19 patients in the absence of adequate evidence.“...metanalysis that has a very small number of patients tend to sway opinion. There is a need to look critically. If you see the robust studies, it raises questions about the utility of these drugs. ...even without antivirals and other experimental drugs patients recovered on their own with supportive treatment. So, there has to be a judicious use and doctors have to consider when not to use these medicines,” said AIIMS director Randeep Guleria at a virtual interactive session of doctors from across the country to discuss trends in Covid-19 treatment.Doctors cited data and said 300 patients with moderate to severe symptoms were given steroids – the only medicine to have shown benefits in reducing mortality. Only about one-third were given the antiviral drug Remdesivir.Also read | Active Covid-19 cases declining, but surge in four states: Govt“The medicine was roughly given to one-third of the patients in moderate as well as severe categories. It was given only to those who presented within one week of symptoms and might benefit from it,” said Dr Sujay HS, a resident doctor from the department of medicine, AIIMS.Dr Manish Soneja, an additional professor from the same department, while presenting the evidence on some of the experimental therapies being used in India, said that randomised control trials did not show benefits of anti-malarial drug Hydroxychloroquine, Remdesivir, or convalescent plasma therapy. Nonetheless, Remdesivir has since received approval from the US Food and Drug Administration.Dr Soneja said well-designed randomised control trials were needed to prove the efficacy of antiviral medicine Favipiravir and anti-parasitic Ivermectin.“A laboratory study had shown that Ivermectin reduces the viral load by 5,000 times in 48 hours. However, the doses needed for that is 35 times what is usually prescribed and may be toxic. Whether it is effective at the current dosage, we do not know. We will need randomised control trial to see. As for Tocilizumab, a cohort study has shown 10% lower mortality in ICU [intensive care unit] patients if given within two days of admission. However, two randomised control trials from France and Italy did not show any major benefits,” said Dr Soneja.The doctors have also reviewed the status of vaccine development. “Currently, there are 193 vaccine candidates across the world in different stages of development. Of these, 42 are in clinical phases [meaning they are being trialed on humans]. Ten vaccines are in the advanced phase III trial needed before approval. And two Russian vaccines have been approved without phase III trial,” said Dr Sanjay Rai, head of the department of community medicine, AIIMS. He is leading a trial on Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin at AIIMS, Delhi.As per data, 33% of all the vaccines under development are subunit vaccines wherein the viral protein is injected to generate an immune response. This is followed by 12% vaccines using a non-replicating viral vector that uses another virus without its ability to cause disease to deliver the antigen of SARS-CoV-2 that causes Covid-19.The doctors said Hydroxychloroquine has failed as an experimental treatment since it did not show any impact in three randomised control trials, which are the gold standard for evaluating new therapies. India still recommends the use of the medicine for the treatment of mild Covid-19 patients as well as a prophylaxis to prevent the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-do-not-overuse-experimental-therapies-warn-aiims-doctors/story-WN9GiN6GDrwrFXiuxzT03O.html
04-11-2020||India||India reports 46,253 fresh Covid-19 cases in 24 hours, 20% higher than Tuesday||Within 24 hours, India registered a 20 per cent jump in the fresh Covid-19 cases as on Wednesday 46,253 fresh cases were registered against 38,310 on Tuesday. However, this is not disrupting the number active cases as 53,357 people have been discharged in the last 24 hours. The total active cases on Wednesday stand at 5,33,787 while the total tally is 83,13,877. On November 3, 12,09,609 samples have been tested.According to health ministry data, there has been a continuous decline in the average daily new cases for the last seven weeks. Between September 16 and 22, the daily new cases used to hover around 90,346. which came down to around 60,000 between October 14 and 20. Between October 28 and November 30, the average has come down to 45,884.The average daily new deaths have also come down in the last seven weeks. Health ministry data reveals average daily death used to be 1,165 between September 16 and 22. Between October 14 and 20, it came down to 763. between October 28 and November 3, it has been 513.The states have been asked to proactively pursue Test-Track-Trace and Treat strategy during the ongoing festive season.Delhi, Kerala, West Bengal and Manipur are the four states that are showing a rise in the number of active cases defying the national trend of a steady decline. Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh are reporting a decline in the number of active cases in the last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-46-253-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-24-hours-17-higher-than-tuesday/story-Qu7KboWIDflQRe2thdbH7K.html
04-11-2020||India||Amit Shah heads for Bengal to prep BJP for assembly polls||Union home minister Amit Shah will reach Kolkata this evening on a two-day visit to West Bengal to take stock of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s organizational preparedness for the 2021 state assembly election which is due in a few months.Buoyed by its impressive gain in the 2019 Lok Sabha election, in which the BJP had won 18 of the 42 parliamentary seats, the party is now eyeing for the West Bengal assembly. “Shah will be landing at the Kolkata International Airport today around 8:30 pm. He has a series of meetings over the next two days before he flies back to Delhi on November 6 evening,” said a senior party leader. While Shah did not campaign in Bihar for the assembly election, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has addressed more than ten election rallies in the state since October. On October 22, Modi also addressed the people of Bengal on the occasion of Durga Sasthi virtually sounding the poll bugle. “Shah will address two rallies of BJP karyakartas, covering two of the party’s five organizational zones in each meeting. While the meeting on November 5 is in Bankura, the meeting on November 6 will take place in Kolkata,” said a senior leader. BJP president JP Nadda had addressed the karyakartas of north Bengal zone during his visit to the state before Durga Puja. On Thursday, Shah is scheduled to pay homage to 18th century tribal leader Birsa Munda at Bankura and have lunch in a tribal family in the district. On November 6 he is scheduled to visit the Dakhsineswar Temple and have lunch with a Matua (a Dalit population in Bengal) family at Rajarhat – New Town in the northern fringes of the city. The Matuas had extended their support to the BJP in the 2019 elections. “He is also likely to hold meetings with the BSF and CRPF and has expressed his willingness to meet Padma Bhushan Pandit Ajoy Chakraborty as part of the BJPs effort to reach out to intellectuals,” said the BJP leader. Shah’s visit to the state at this stage assumes significance because it is being viewed by senior leaders as an effort to stop internal rumblings and iron out differences between BJP leaders who earlier worked for the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and those who joined in recent years, leaving the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC). Differences between Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh and Mukul Roy, the vice president (who switched over from the TMC) made news over the last two months. BJP leaders said the party’s central leaders want this to end so that a strong fight can be put up against the TMC in 2021. TMC MP Saugata Roy dismissed Shah’s engagement with the Matua community as inconsequential for the assembly polls,“Shah is coming to put an end to the rift that has surfaced in the Bengal BJP unit. Having lunch with a Matua or with a tribal family will not have any effect on the polls,” Roy said. The BJP has made some organisational changes in its Bengal unit and central leaders want the state unit to hit the road with full steam and subsequently intensify campaign for the crucial assembly election due in about five months. The entire campaign will be monitored from Delhi, a senior BJP leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-heads-for-bengal-to-prep-bjp-for-assembly-polls/story-gaxuS1fQd68hzi2vuA566I.html
04-11-2020||India||‘Reminds us of emergency days’: Prakash Javadekar after Arnab Goswami’s arrest||After Republic Television editor Arnab Goswami’s arrest, Union minister of information and broadcasting Prakash Javadekar slammed Maharashtra Police’s attack on press freedom and compared it to those of “Emergency days”. “We condemn the attack on press freedom in #Maharashtra. This is not the way to treat the Press. This reminds us of the emergency days when the press was treated like this,” the minister tweeted without taking the name of either Goswami or his channel.Later, he directly blamed the Congress, Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi for the arrest. “We condemn the #Congress, led by Sonia Gandhi & Rahul Gandhi, for its fascist and emergency mindset, which is on display in #Maharashtra,” Javadekar tweeted mentioning Republic’s name.Also Read: Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami arrested in 2018 suicide abetment case We condemn the attack on press freedom in #Maharashtra. This is not the way to treat the Press. This reminds us of the emergency days when the press was treated like this.@PIB_India @DDNewslive @republic सोनिया गांधी और राहुल गाँधी के नेतृत्व में काम कर रही #कांग्रेस अभी भी आपातकालीन मनस्तिथि में है। इसी का सबूत आज महाराष्ट्र में उनकी सरकार ने दिखाया है। लोग ही इसका लोकतांत्रिक जवाब देंगे।@republicUnion minister Smriti Irani, too, voices support for Goswami. “Those in the free press who don’t stand up today in support of Arnab, you are now tactically in support of fascism. You may not like him, you may not approve of him,you may despise his very existence but if you stay silent you support suppression. Who speaks if you are next?” the minister tweeted. Those in the free press who don’t stand up today in support of Arnab, you are now tactically in support of fascism. You may not like him, you may not approve of him,you may despise his very existence but if you stay silent you support suppression. Who speaks if you are next ?On Wednesday morning, Goswami was detained and arrested by the Alibaugh Police in connection with a 2018 case of abetment to suicide. In 2018, a 53-year-old interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother Kumud Naik died by suicide blaming Arnab Goswami and two others — Feroz Shaikh and Niteish Sarda — for not paying the dues running to crores for the interior services that their company Concorde Designs Private Limited rendered for them.A case of abetment to suicide was filed by the Alibaug Police but reports said in 2019 it got closed.In May 2020, Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh announced a fresh CID investigation into the case after Adnya Naik, daughter of Avnay Naik, approached him and complained that the Alibaug police had not investigated the “non-payment of dues from Arnab Goswami’s Republic”. The arrest of Arnab Goswami comes at a time when he is at a loggerheads with the state government over a chain of issues involving the investigation into Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, TRP scam etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reminds-us-of-emergency-days-prakash-javadekar-after-arnab-goswami-s-arrest/story-6vLFYnrm2cGBTaX181bfeI.html
04-11-2020||India||Karnataka HC rejects bail plea of Kannada actor in Sandalwood drug case||The Karnataka High Court on Tuesday rejected the bail plea of three key accused the Sandalwood drug case -Kannada actor Ragini Dwivedi, Sanjjanaa Galrani alias Mahira and jeweller Prashanth Ranka. The three along with several others had been arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NC) under various sections of NDPS Act. The Central Crime Branch of Bengaluru police and the NCB had jointly arrested Ragini on September 14 and Sanjjanaa two days later. The lawyer of the petitioners argued that no evidence had been found against them and that they should be immediately released.The counsel for prosecution, however, argued that since that digital evidence had been collected and are being processed, and since all the accused are influential people, any release could lead to destruction of evidence and thus prayed for their continued custody.After hearing all arguments, Justice Srinivasa Harish Kumar rejected the bail plea of the accused. All the three apart from seven other accused are lodged at the Parappana Agrahara Jail on the outskirts of Bengaluru. Some of the accused named in the charge sheet, including Aditya Alva the brother-in-law of Bollywood actor Vivek Oberoi, are absconding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-hc-rejects-bail-plea-of-kannada-actor-in-sandalwood-drug-case/story-63LFXqTDnX9COMto7RkvIO.html
04-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Security ramped up at IGI airport after banned outfit calls for flights’ boycott and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Security ramped up at IGI airport after banned outfit calls for flights’ boycottThe Delhi Police and Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) on Tuesday beefed up security arrangements at the Indira Gandhi International airport after a banned outfit named ‘Sikhs for Justice’ (SFJ) called for obstruction of two Air India flights from Delhi to London scheduled on Thursday. Read MoreGurjar protests intensify in RajasthanMembers of the Gurjar community intensified their agitation seeking reservation in jobs and education in Rajasthan for the third straight day on Tuesday, disrupting both rail and road traffic, even as the state government said that its doors were open for talks with the agitating members. Read MoreUS Election 2020: Doordarshan rolls out 14-hour live coverageDoordarshan (DD) is rolling out a 14-hour live coverage of the ongoing US Presidential elections in the public broadcaster’s bid to expand its global footprint.DD has enlisted 22 guests, reporters on the ground, as the pubcaster aims to cover the election – held once in four years -- from coast to coast, people familiar with the matter said. Read MoreUS Presidential Election 2020: Trump and Biden in a close fight in key states Florida, TexasPolls have closed in key states of the US as the world watches a political spectacle unfold. The first projections of election results have begun to trickle in.While Republican candidate and incumbent President Donald Trump is seeking a return to office for a second term, Democrat leader Joe Biden has campaigned aggressively to grab the White House seat. Read More Govt: Over 1 million Covid-19 warriors trainedIndia has digitally trained 1.36 million Covid-19 warriors so far that are managing Covid-19 outbreak in the country. The online platform, Integrated Government Online Training (iGOT) platform and Covid Trainings, started functioning in April, and one of the aim of the programme was to train the frontline workers in managing the outbreak. Read More‘Don’t think it is possible that Ravi Shastri was unaware about Rohit Sharma’s situation’: Virender Sehwag ‘doesn’t agree’ with India head coachThe controversy over Rohit Sharma not getting selected for the Australia tour saw a new twist on Tuesday when the right-handed batsman stepped out to play for Mumbai Indians against Sunrisers Hyderabad in the Indian Premier League. Rohit was kept out of the three India squads because he was believed to injured, but the batsman at the toss said that he is ‘fit’. Read MoreTaarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah: Dilip Joshi says he was forbidden to repeat controversial ‘paagal aurat’ lineDilip Joshi, aka Jethalal from the popular show Taarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah, became the subject of memes with his iconic line - “Aye, paagal aurat (Crazy woman)!” However, in a recent chat, he revealed that the line stirred up a controversy. Read MoreWatch: Donald Trump dances, asking people to vote in US electionsDonald Trump, President of the United States of America, tweeted a video of himself dancing to the classic song YMCA by Village People. The caption on the video said ‘POTUS knows how to close a show’. The video contained clippings from various campaign rallies showing Trump dancing on stage. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-security-ramped-up-at-igi-airport-after-banned-outfit-calls-for-flights-boycott-and-all-the-latest-news/story-GMAb7gZa9JQv0C8JZl8IxL.html
04-11-2020||India||Air pollution as severe in villages as in urban India, reveals study||Outdoor pollution is not primarily an urban problem and ambient air is as toxic in rural parts of India as in the urban regions, found a new study part-funded by NASA that combined satellite data with modelling to estimate levels of small particulate matter (PM2.5 > 2.5 μm) that damage health and lead to early death.In the rest of India, the average PM2.5 levels are similar in rural and urban areas, found the study by researchers from the Colorado State University and Indian Institute of Technology Bombay. It found that most people in India (84% of the population) are exposed to pollution well above the limit of India’s standard (40 μg/m3 ), and almost the entire country is exposed to levels higher than the WHO standard (10 μg/m3 ), with “a long tail of very high concentrations (>160 μg/m3 ) in the urban regions in the Indo-Gangetic plains and parts of non-urban areas in eastern and western India”.Also read | Toxic air from fires is set to make India’s Covid fight deadlierAround 16% of India’s population is not affected by this pollution (below 40 μg/m3 ), and that is mostly confined to the very north-western parts of India, the Western Ghats, and a few regions within India. The fraction that is below the WHO standards is very small (<0.001%), said the study, which has implications for air quality monitoring, regulations, public health, and policy. It was published in the journal, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences (PNAS) on Tuesday.“I was a little surprised (with the results), though our previous work was indicating this. We calculated these using satellite data, so no, there are no significant gaps,” said lead author R. Ravishankara, University Distinguished Professor, Departments of Chemistry and Atmospheric Science at Colorado State University, US, in an email.“Only the very north western part of India appears to be below the threshold for PM2.5. We have used premature mortality as the metric to measure the health impact. In addition to premature mortality, there are other negative impacts such as asthma, hospital visits, medical costs, etc,” said Ravishankaran.The findings are in line with the State of Global Air 2020 report released in October, which said that India had recorded the highest annual average PM2.5 concentration exposure in the world in 2019, followed by Nepal, Niger, Qatar and Nigeria.For the PNAS study, researchers calculated the annually averaged aerosol optical depth (AOD) from three satellite instruments (Methods) that were converted to surface PM2.5 abundances using PM2.5:AOD ratios from the GEOSChem chemical transport model. They then compared the satellite-derived daily and annual PM2.5 with the surface PM2.5 measured by India’s Central Pollution Control Board at 20 monitoring sites, most of which were in urban areas.The annual premature deaths attributable to PM2.5 alone for urban and rural India is 1.05 million, found the study, which factored in six causes of death: ischemic heart disease, stroke, lower respiratory infections, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, lung cancer, and type-2 diabetes.Long-term exposure to outdoor and household air pollution contributed to over 1.67 million annual premature deaths from stroke, heart attack, diabetes, lung cancer, chronic lung diseases, and neonatal diseases, in India in 2019 according to State of Global Air Report 2020.The analysis revealed that the risk of premature deaths attributable to PM2.5 is similar in rural and urban regions, but there were more deaths in rural areas as it is home to 69% of the country’s population.“We have used premature mortality as the metric to measure the health impact. These are quantified in the paper. In addition to premature mortality, there are other negative impacts such as asthma, hospital visits, medical costs, etc,” said Ravisankaran.The findings suggest that efforts to monitor and curtail air pollution should not be limited to India’s urban areas. Enhancing monitoring and regulation in rural areas, which are virtually non-existent, could help better assess the risks and inform policy for pan-India reduction of PM2.5 levels keeping in mind the rural populations lower ability to reduce risks because of economic reasons.“The Global Burden of Disease 2019 shows us that possibly 100% of India is exposed to air that is not meeting the WHO guidelines, and anywhere between 69% to 85% of the population is exposed to air that doesn’t meet the national standard. Now there is a mix of satellite, chemical transport and ground monitor data to prove this. There are studies now showing that 30% to 50% of outdoor air pollution is contributed by household sources of emissions. The health impacts on both rural and urban populations could range from cardio-respiratory, cardiovascular conditions, diabetes, low birthweight, preterm birth and neonatal mortality,” said Kalpana Balakrishnan, the director of the Indian Council of Medical Research Centre for Advanced Research on Air Quality, Climate and Health, Chennai.“My key message is: Please don’t forget non-urban India when dealing with air pollution. The second key message is: Science, measurements, and analyses can help overcome this problem with good information to the policymakers,” said Ravisankaran.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-pollution-as-severe-in-villages-as-in-urban-india-reveals-study/story-OvuzR1U64HEE2hsW8sANNM.html
04-11-2020||India||‘So much for the crores’, Tharoor, Omar Abdullah slam ‘Namo bromance’ after Donald Trump Jr’s map fiasco||US President’s son, Donald Trump junior, stirred a controversy on Tuesday after he tweeted a world map painted in red and blue. Red is the colour associated with the Republicans while blue stands for the Democrats. “Okay, finally got around to making my electoral map prediction,” he had tweeted just ahead of the closing day. Okay, finally got around to making my electoral map prediction. #2020Election #VOTE pic.twitter.com/STmDSuQTMbThe map showed India with wrong border and painted in the colour of blue — along with China, Liberia and Mexico. The projected Democrat population in India however excludes Jammu and Kashmir and the Northeast, evoking sharp criticism by Indian politicians. Okay, finally got around to making my electoral map prediction. #2020Election #VOTE pic.twitter.com/STmDSuQTMbSlamming Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s bonhomie with US incumbent President Donald Trump, who has recently termed India ‘filthy’ as far as India’s climate is concerned, Congress leader Shashi Tharoor referred to the Howdy, Modi and Namaste Trump events. “The price of Namo’s bromance: Kashmir & the NorthEast cut off from the rest of India, &the whole “filthy” place relegated by Don Jr to the realm of hostiles, along with China&Mexico. So much for the crores spent on obsequious serenading stadium events!” Tharoor tweeted.“So much for the friendship with Trump Senior. Junior has placed India firmly with Joe Biden and Kamala Harris though interestingly Jr. believes J&K & the NorthEast go against the rest of India and will vote Trump. Someone needs to take his colouring pencils away,” J&K former chief minister, National Conference leader Omar Abdullah tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/so-much-for-the-crores-tharoor-omar-abdullah-slam-namo-bromance-after-donald-trump-jr-s-map-fiasco/story-SrFyYWNObLvoUNrHQImzPL.html
04-11-2020||India||Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami arrested in 2018 suicide abetment case||The Maharashtra Police on Wednesday morning arrested Republic Television editor Arnab Goswami from his Mumbai house in connection with the death of interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother Kumud Naik in 2018. This comes at a time when the TRP scam investigation against Goswami is going on in Mumbai. #WATCH Republic TV Editor Arnab Goswami detained and taken in a police van by Mumbai Police, earlier today pic.twitter.com/ytYAnpauG0This abetment to suicide case goes back to 2018 when a 53-year-old interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother Kumud Naik died by suicide in Alibaug in May 2018. A suicide note purportedly written by Anvay was found in which he said that Goswami and two others — Feroz Shaikh and Niteish Sarda —had not paid him Rs 5.40 crore which led to his financial constraints. In 2018, the Alibaug police had filed a case of abetment to suicide but in 2019 the case was closed by Raigad Police. Watch: Arnab Goswami arrested; I&B Minister draws ‘emergency’ analogyIn May 2020, Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh announced a fresh CID investigation into the case after Adnya Naik, daughter of Avnay Naik, approached him and complained that the Alibaug police had not investigated the “non-payment of dues from Arnab Goswami’s Republic”.  Adnya Naik had complained to me that #AlibaugPolice had not investigated non-payment of dues from #ArnabGoswami's @republic which drove her entrepreneur father & grandmom to suicide in May 2018. I've ordered a CID re-investigation of the case.#MaharashtraGovernmentCaresAnvay was the managing director of Concorde Designs Private Limited which rendered some services for Republic. Naik’s mother was also in the Board of Directors of the company. Anvay’s wife Akshata lodged a complained against Arnab Goswami as the suicide note contained his name, along with the others.The Republic TV at that time quashed the allegations of non-payment and attributed this to “malicious campaign”. It had claimed that all amounts due and payable under the contract were paid by Republic TV to Concorde Designs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-police-reaches-republic-tv-editor-arnab-goswami-s-house-attempts-to-detain-him/story-hKCZGIvDXnNr2rFp9XgHON.html
04-11-2020||India||US Election 2020: Doordarshan rolls out 14-hour live coverage||Doordarshan (DD) is rolling out a 14-hour live coverage of the ongoing US Presidential elections in the public broadcaster’s bid to expand its global footprint.DD has enlisted 22 guests, reporters on the ground, as the pubcaster aims to cover the election – held once in four years -- from coast to coast, people familiar with the matter said. The channel is holding live debates with the guests to discuss the importance of the US Presidential elections and play up the Indian angle in one of the most vibrant democracies in the world.“The channel is number one as far as the reach is concerned. Gradually, it is increasing its footprints in east Asia and Asia-Pacific regions,” said a person familiar with the matter. Also read | Biden wins in 10 states but Florida, North Carolina results most crucial“DD India has consolidated its position as an ideal platform to articulate the country’s voice on the world stage, thanks to an array of special programming that will be broadcast soon. The programmes will project the country’s soft power abroad along with narrating the new India growth story to the global audience,” the person added. Several other international initiatives are also in the works to further the pubcaster’s aim to reach a broader international audience. “DD India has come up with a template for current affairs programmes, as the country seeks to project its views to the global audience on international topics,” said the person mentioned above. “The channel aims to provide an alternative narrative to the Indian story and global headlines on a daily basis and seeks to emerge as the nation’s voice on the world stage,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-election-2020-doordarshan-rolls-out-14-hour-live-coverage/story-2tNwd528LMwrGgpBV1AIwK.html
04-11-2020||India||Mizoram hands over body of Assam resident, national highway blockade continues||Amid continued tension along border areas between the two states, the Mizoram government on Tuesday handed over the body of an Assam resident who had died in police custody in the neighbouring state a day earlier. A large posse of Mizoram security personnel accompanied the body of Intazul Laskar and handed it over to senior district and police officials of Cachar district in Assam at Lailapur on the border between the two states. Laskar’s brother was also present during the handing over. The Assam government maintains the 45-year-ol Laskar was abducted from its territory on Sunday while Mizoram claims he was a drug dealer and had entered the state to smuggle in narcotics.“Nearly 250-300 security personnel from Mizoram accompanied the body of the deceased and handed it over to us at 10:30 am. We are conducting a magisterial inquest and post-mortem to ascertain the exact cause of death,” Dilip Kumar Dey, deputy inspector general of police, (Southern Range), Assam Police, said. The body was handed over to the deceased’s family on Tuesday evening for the last rites. The Assam Police have registered a case of abduction at Dholai police station and are conducting an investigation. “The situation on the border areas is tense but under control. Blockade of NH 306 connecting Mizoram by residents of Lailapur continues. Residents on the Assam side are very angry at Laskar’s death,” Dey said. The national highway has been blocked by Assam residents since October 28 demanding withdrawal of Mizoram security personnel from the border areas. A case of unnatural death has also been lodged by Mizoram Police and a magisterial inquiry ordered in connection with Laskar’s death. “On November 1, Intyaz Ali aka Intazul Laskar was apprehended by volunteers of the Young Mizo Association while he was trying to sell drugs. While attempting to flee, he suffered injuries on his ankles. Later, excise officials seized 420 mg from him and arrested him,” ANI quoted Mizoram’s inspector general of police (IGP) John Neihlaia as saying.. “As this is death in custody, post mortem was done as per NHRC guidelines. A case of unnatural death has been registered and a magisterial inquiry also being held. The body was handed over to his (Laskar’s brother),” he added. The Mizoram police official maintained that Laskar was weak and died at Vairengte community health centre on November 2. On Tuesday, newly appointed Assam chief secretary Jishnu Barua and Assam’s director general of police (DGP) Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta visited the border areas to take stock of the situation. They also met Laskar’s family and handed over a cheque of Rs 5 lakh as ex-gratia. “We will take all measures needed to protect our residents and ensure Assam’s territory is not encroached upon. Talks are on at the highest level to resolve the issue. Unlike Mizoram, we don’t want to indulge in uncivil behaviour, but will not tolerate injustice,” Mahanta told journalists. While Assam maintains that troops from Mizoram have encroached parts of its territory, the Mizoram side claims the areas belong to them and have refused to call back its troops till normalcy returns. Last month, several people on both sides of the border between two states were injured in clashes after some miscreants from Mizoram allegedly burnt down some huts at Lailapur. Assam and Mizoram share a 165 km boundary. There have been skirmishes on both sides earlier as well as both sides claiming portions of land along the boundary as theirs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mizoram-hands-over-body-of-assam-resident-national-highway-blockade-continues/story-OppI0pg5ZxKbzcCfiMPZ7K.html
04-11-2020||India||Puducherry joins govt’s borrowing plan for GST||Puducherry is the latest addition in the list of 21 states and two Union territories (UTs) to accept the Centre’s proposal to borrow Rs 1.1 lakh crore on behalf of states, which is part of the estimated Rs 2.35 lakh crore shortfall in Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation cess, as the Union finance ministry on Monday announced the release a second tranche of Rs 6,000 crore to states and UTs. Seven states—Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Kerala, Punjab, Rajasthan, Telangana and West Bengal—are yet to accept the Centre’s proposal as they want full compensation of Rs 2.35 lakh crore, two government officials said requesting anonymity. The seven dissenting states are “The ministry of finance, Government of India, under its ‘Special Window to States for meeting the GST Compensation Cess shortfall,’ will be releasing an amount of Rs 6,000 crore as second tranche to 16 States and 3 Union Territories today,” the government stated in an official statement.The previous tranche was released on October 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/puducherry-joins-govt-s-borrowing-plan-for-gst/story-gU62LvihzUqJKa8BZgyOYM.html
04-11-2020||India||4 chant hanuman Chalisa at UP Idgah, arrested||Police arrested four men Tuesday after they chanted ‘Hanuman Chalisa’ at an Idgah, a day after namaz offered on the premises of a temple here triggered a row.One of them claimed to be a local leader of BJP’s youth wing.Saurabh Nambardar, Raghav Mittal, Rauki and Kanha entered the Idgah on the Goverdhan-Barsana road and recited the Hindu prayer, police said. They were arrested under Section 151 of the CrPC for disturbing peace.Meanwhile, a Bharatiya Janata Party leader Manupal Bansal also entered a mosque and recited ‘Gayatri mantra’ and ‘Hanuman Chalisa’, in Khekra area of Baghpat district. Bansal, who is also associated with RSS-supported Population Solutions Foundation, said he did this to spread a message of communal harmony and sought permission from the ‘hafiz’ (religious leader) of the mosque.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-chant-hanuman-chalisa-at-up-idgah-arrested/story-CjRqNYRXzOJManRs08sg3J.html
04-11-2020||India||Gurjar protests intensify in Rajasthan||Members of the Gurjar community intensified their agitation seeking reservation in jobs and education in Rajasthan for the third straight day on Tuesday, disrupting both rail and road traffic, even as the state government said that its doors were open for talks with the agitating members.Protesters associated with the Gurjar Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti -- which began the movement for reservation in Bayana on Sunday saying the community comes under the Most Backward Class (MBC) -- blocked the Delhi-Mumbai rail route, leading to several trains being diverted. The Kota rail division officials said 17 passenger trains and 25 goods trains were diverted.On Monday, internet services were suspended across Bharatpur and Karauli district, and in nine tehsils of Jaipur districts. Gurjar leader Kirori Singh Bainsla said the agitation will continue until their demands are met. Speaking to news agency ANI, Bainsla said, “The government should accept our demands as early as possible.”On Tuesday evening, senior IAS officer Niraj K Pavan reached Bayana to hold talks with Bainsla. Vijay Bainsla, Kirori Singh Bainsla’s son, said they are ready to hold talks with any government authority. “However, the talks will take place only on the railway tracks and not in any room,” he said. Meanwhile, additional director general of police (law and order) Saurabh Srivastava said additional forces have been deployed in Kota Rural, Tonk, Bundi and Jhalawar where members of the Gurjar community attempted to block roads. The state government had earlier authorised the collectors of eight districts in eastern Rajasthan to make preventive detentions under the National Security Act to maintain law and order. Addressing the Rajasthan assembly on Monday, health minister Raghu Sharma said the Congress government had given 2,491 jobs to Gurjar candidates so far, while 1,356 posts had been reserved for them in the ongoing recruitment. The state government had on October 26, 2018, passed a bill that increased the Other Backward Classes (OBC) quota from 21% to 26%. In December 2018, it also approved 1% reservation for Gurjars and four OBC groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gurjar-protests-intensify-in-rajasthan/story-sqyeBk5sax0j0xJ03AfNiM.html
04-11-2020||India||Govt: Over 1 million Covid-19 warriors trained||India has digitally trained 1.36 million Covid-19 warriors so far that are managing Covid-19 outbreak in the country. The online platform, Integrated Government Online Training (iGOT) platform and Covid Trainings, started functioning in April, and one of the aim of the programme was to train the frontline workers in managing the outbreak.Those being trained include doctors, nurses, allied and healthcare professionals, laboratory professionals, frontline workers other than health care workers, NCC cadets, and other volunteers. As of today, at least 2.9 million unit of courses have been enrolled by 1.36 million unique users from 729 districts, of which 1.9 unit courses have been completed, shows government data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-over-1-million-covid-19-warriors-trained/story-gW9njpzwPk7mqlebDVWYUP.html
04-11-2020||India||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh to lead protest at Rajghat||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh announced a relay protest of Congress lawmakers at Rajghat on Wednesday after President Ram Nath Kovind refused to meet a delegation led by him over the Centre’s controversial new farm laws and the northern state’s rapidly worsening power crisis. The chief minister’s office (CMO) on October 21 sought an appointment with the President on November 4 to urge him to grant his assent to Punjab’s farm bills passed last month by the state assembly in a bid to bypass the Centre’s new laws that ushered in reform in the agricultural sector but also sparked widespread protests in the state.But Rashtrapati Bhavan declined the appointment on Monday, pointing out that the state farm bills were still pending with the governor. The CMO sent another request the same day, but the President’s office declined this as well, saying it “cannot be accepted at this juncture for reasons cited earlier”.In response, Singh announced on Tuesday that he will lead a dharna to highlight the “power crisis and critical essential supplies situation”. The CM said as section 144 of the CrPC -- which prohibits assembly of people -- is in force in the Capital, MLAs will go from Delhi’s Punjab Bhawan to Mahatma Gandhi’s final resting place in Rajghat in groups of four to hold a relay protest. Singh will lead the first batch at 10.30 am. Singh also asked legislators of other parties to join the dharna in the interest of the state. The CM said the protest in Delhi will also highlight the power crisis and scarcity of essential supplies in the state due to the suspension of goods trains by the Centre.The Railways stopped running trains to Punjab from October 1, saying farmers protesting against the farm laws blocked tracks and attacked trains, leading to losses. But the state government says it has eased the blockade and allowed goods trains to run. “GVK has announced it will close down operations at 3pm on Tuesday since coal stocks have completely run out. The public and private power plants in the state have already shut down,” the CM said in a statement.On October 20, Punjab’s assembly unanimously passed four bills and a resolution to counter the three agriculture marketing laws enacted by the Centre in September, and pledged to safeguard the interests of the state’s farmers, who are concerned that the central legislation would deprive them of government-fixed minimum support prices (MSPs) for their produce and put them at the mercy of big agribusinesses.Because the state laws are in conflict with the central laws, which have been signed by Kovind, they require presidential assent to be enacted. Some farmers organisations say the bills offer nothing substantial.BJP’s state general secretary Subhash Sharma said Singh should stop political maneuvering. “The railways have requ-ested the Punjab government to get the train tracks vacated and he should ensure this as law and order is his responsibility. Who will be responsible if some mishap occurs? He (Singh) is only indulging in these political theatrics only to hide his failures.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-chief-minister-amarinder-singh-to-lead-protest-at-rajghat/story-C1YJNiEVPEZ89Y9AxslHIK.html
04-11-2020||India||Soon, price info system for farmers||The Union government will set up a price information and market intelligence system for farm produce to enable price discovery for farmers in accordance with provisions of a set of laws enacted to liberalise agricultural trade, according to an agriculture ministry presentation seen by HT. “The government will employ the services of a central government economic organisation to develop this price information and market intelligence system for farmers,” a government official said, requesting anonymity. The agriculture ministry is also undertaking a massive drive to publicise the three controversial laws that have led to protests by farmers groups in some states. “Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar has written to over 200,000 sarpanches (village heads) in multiple languages to spell out the various provisions of the laws and the benefits to farmers from the reforms,” the official cited above said. The agriculture ministry has marshalled over 100 resource persons from central and state governments to educate farmers on the three Acts that bring the full force of liberalisation to the agriculture sector. These resource persons attended a training session last month, the official said. He added that the price information and market intelligence system will be a web-based platform and will collate real-time data of production, arrivals of farm produce in markets, and demand and supply, to provide a profitable indicative price to farmers. The system will also have a mechanism to easily disseminate the price information to growers to help them negotiate better returns, possibly delivered on mobile handsets. “For farmers, price has always been the real issue. Regardless of whatever system one has, the government will ultimately have to intervene to make good losses through procurement whenever there is a price crash,” said RK Mani, an economist with the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University.The NDA government on September 24 passed three bills -- the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020; the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, Farm Services Bill, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020 – despite protests by farmers’ outfits and opposition leaders. The reforms allow agribusiness to freely trade farm produce, permit private traders to stockpile essential commodities for future sales and lay down new rules for contract farming. A crucial change is that traders, agribusinesses and supermarkets can buy produce from any market, rather than buy only in notified markets where they are licenced to operate. These rules have angered farmers, particularly in Punjab, who fear the reforms could pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, which offers growers an assured price, leave them vulnerable to powerful agribusinesses and in an even weaker negotiating position than before. PM Narendra Modi has said, on several occasions, that the three laws have no bearing on the current system of assured prices, which will continue. But the Opposition has questioned why this has not been made explicit in the new laws.Three Congress-ruled states -- Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan -- have passed their own farm laws to override the Central provisions. These, however, may yet be open to legal interpretation||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/soon-price-info-system-for-farmers/story-82KncexBluzC9Hb0NdVdXN.html
04-11-2020||India||States granted Rs 2,200 crore to fight air pollution||The Union government approved the release of ₹2,200 crore to fight air pollution to 42 cities with a population in excess of a million -- money that will be used under the National Clean Air Programme to improve air quality in these cities.The money (transferred through states) will go towards capacity building of the local urban bodies and state pollution control boards. Delhi, with the worst air in the country, is not among the cities that will receive funds under this grant. While Delhi is among the 102 cities covered by NCAP, it has not received any funding under NCAP. Greater Mumbai has received the highest share of funds, ₹244 crore followed by Kolkata (₹192 crores), Bengaluru (₹139.5 crore) and Chennai (₹90 crore). A November 2 communication from the Finance Commission Division to the accounts officer at the Chief Controller of Accounts in the department of expenditure, ministry of finance details the allocation. The 2020-21 report of the finance commission had recommended the grant of ₹4,400 crore to NCAP. The programme, launched in January last year, aims to reduce by 20-30%, the PM 2.5 (respirable, pollution particles) concentrations in over a hundred cities compared to 2017 levels.The report released last November also explained Delhi’s exclusion. “We are also deeply concerned with the issue of ‘ease of breathing’ in the National Capital Region (NCR), especially the extremely hazardous levels of pollution in October-November of each year. One of the main reasons for this is the burning of crop residue in the surrounding states of Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh. We are unable to make an allocation to address this as Delhi is not a state. Besides, the pollution hazard in the NCR is very unique as the air-shed contributing to pollution extends to three neighbouring states,” the Commission noted in the report, adding that it is “ therefore recommended that the Union Government constitute a high power committee, consisting of the ministries of Finance, Environment, Forest and Climate Change and Agriculture and Farmer Welfare, the Governments of Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, to devise, implement and monitor a time-bound action plan for pollution mitigation under the National Clean Air Programme.”The state governments are supposed to directly transfer the grants to city administrations within 10 days of receipt. Any delay would mean that state will have to release the funds with interest. Finance Minister, Nirmala Sitharaman tweeted on Tuesday: “The government, based on the recommendations of the 15th Finance Commission has released ₹2,200 crores as the first instalments to 15 states for the improvement of air quality measures in their million plus cities. ” The 15th Finance Commission report specifies that the environment ministry in consultation with states will develop a city-wise and year wise targets for ambient air quality based on annual average concentration of PM 10 and PM 2.5 ; and monitor and evaluate improvement and recommend disbursal of grants accordingly to cities. “The second instalment shall be disbursed against the stipulated performance-based outcomes in terms of year-on-year improvement in air quality in January 2021,” the report states.But MoEFCC is yet to come out with benchmarks for monitoring of use of funds and improvement in air quality; the deadline for this was April. “MoEFCC is in the final stages of formulating a framework for monitoring the use of funds. In fact, Central Pollution Control Board is developing the framework with the state governments. The Finance Commission report is very clear that the second instalment of the funds will be performance based. Delhi is not included in the list because it is a union territory. Finance Commission doesn’t provide these funds to UTs,” a senior environment ministry official said.Experts are concerned about how these substantial grants will be utilised. “The Finance Commission grants represent an important step forward. The allocations are substantial...,” said Santosh Harish, fellow at Centre for Policy Research. “There will be some challenges this year... Unfortunately, except for a few cities like Patna, most city action plans don’t yet lend themselves well for this effort. Some grantee cities like Chennai are not part of NCAP and therefore may be less prepared. There are some other sources of uncertainty as well. To what extent can polluting activities outside the direct jurisdiction of the urban local bodies be targeted through these grants?”.A Delhi government spokesperson said, “Centre’s decision to not give any funds to Delhi from ₹2,200 Cr... shows its pettiness and complete lack of political will when it comes to the problem of pollution in Delhi. Pollution is a health emergency for the entire of north India and it knows no boundaries.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-granted-rs-2-200-cr-to-fight-air-pollution/story-IcYI7rJHGinV9OzW5Nt70N.html
04-11-2020||India||PIL in medical bribery scam: NGO pays Rs 25 lakh fine asked by Supreme Court||After being slapped with a hefty fine of Rs 25 lakh in December 2017 by the top court for filing a PIL demanding judicial probe into a medical college bribery scam involving a sitting Orissa high court judge, the NGO Campaign for Judicial Accountability and Reform (CJAR) deposited the amount with the court making a parallel request to recall the order imposing cost.The application moved by CJAR will come up before a bench headed by Justice AM Khanwilkar on Wednesday. The NGO while depositing the demand draft of Rs 25 lakh said that it wanted the money to be utilized by the Supreme Court Bar Association Welfare Fund to help lawyers affected by the pandemic. At the same time, it pointed out that the December 1, 2017 order dismissing the PIL filed by the NGO as “frivolous” proved to be wrong subsequently. Explaining the delay to deposit the amount, the NGO said that the working committee (of CJAR) felt that despite lack of funds, the SC Bar Association Welfare Fund was currently in need of funds to help advocates who have suffered due to lack of work during the pandemic and hence decided to deposit the cost “despite the unfairness of it”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pil-in-medical-bribery-scam-ngo-pays-rs-25-lakh-fine-asked-by-supreme-court/story-oW58YmHKd4YmIagEa0UlmN.html
04-11-2020||India||Job woes abound in migrant hub||“We have to deliver every day unlike those who are in government jobs” Chandan Paswan, 30, waiting for someone to hire him for a day said. A resident of Dilarpur village in Katihar, Chandan returned from Delhi (in May) by a special train after the national lockdown to fight the coronavirus disease was enforced in late March.Madho Rishi, 50, of Nakkipur village, came back from Ludhiana by special train . “I am waiting for someone to hire me” he said, looking at this scribe with hope.“Yes, I can do all kinds of manual work” Yogi Mandal, 55 of Kolasi said, requesting just one chance. “Give me just one chance, I can assure you that I will never disappoint you.”All three, and many like them are at Katihar’s Mirchaibaribari Chowk also known as Labour Chowk on the Katihar-Purnia Road.Some walk to the spot; others cycle.“Our morning starts at 4 am every day and we reach here latest by 7 am covering 25 by cycle for a daylong job” said one of the workers. “Many days we have to return without a job.” Mostly unskilled, the workers charge anything between rs 250 and Rs 400 a day. There are at least 12 such points in Katihar town areas, but the Mirchaibari labour Chowk is the oldest, and also the most popular. Around 200-300 workers gather here everyday. “We hardly get work for 10 to 15 days in a month” now, said Anil Oraon, 32, from Modhra village, adding that this is probably because of the ongoing pandemic. He is happy that the state is proving them with free rations though. “We are alive because we get free ration” he said. As part of the Union government’s relief programme, every migrant worker’s family gets 5 kg free foodgrain per head and maximum of 25 kg per family besides they got Rs 1000 under PM Garib Kalyan Yojana. Besides, government also launched a job programme, Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyan for migrants to offer them works under 25 schemes worth Rs 50,000 crore. The scheme was originally launched for three months and then extended till November.Gulab Chandra Chouhan, 45, a resident of Para village says free rations can’t help them lead a dignified life. He wants work, but thinks the pandemic, not the government, is to blame. Md Ibrahim, 50, adds: “Elections can’t solve our problem; what can solve our problem is work.”Katihar has the maximum number of migrant workers who returned from other regions during the national lockdown. About 4,00,000 migrant workers returned to the region by trains and other means of transport; many have since returned to the big cities, bused away by contractors over the past few months. All told, around 2.5 million migrant workers returned to Bihar in the wake of the pandemic. Naresh Kumar Srivasatava, a political worker and a professor at Purnia University, said that “nobody can rule out the fact that the Central government has done a lot during the pandemic.”Katihar will go to the polls on November 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/job-woes-abound-in-migrant-hub/story-eHcYwkydEOBJaN3HmBhmTK.html
04-11-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi targets PM Modi, Bihar CM Nitish Kumar over ‘poor development’ in state||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday blamed Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar for growing unemployment in Bihar, saying workers who returned to the state in distress during the Covid-19 lockdown wouldn’t have had to go outside the state to earn a living in the first place had the two leaders kept their promise to create jobs.At an election meeting at Korha in Katihar ahead of the third phase of polling in the Bihar assembly elections on November 7, Gandhi pledged that the state government would work for a permanent solution to recurring floods in Bihar and facilitate the setting up of food processing units in the region, considered the maize bowl of Bihar, if the Grand Alliance of the Congress and Rashtriya Janata Dal is voted to power.Farmers and labourers of this region, which accounts for 20% of maize production in the country, had been forced to migrate for jobs because the state and the central governments had failed to ensure that farm produce received profitable returns, Gandhi said.At Kishanganj, the Congress leader took a potshot over the Bihar CM’s act to intimidate the youngsters asking for jobs at his rallies and said that Nitish Kumar should not rebuke them. “They (youngsters) are asking genuine question. He (CM) should acknowledge that he had lied to them. The biggest question India is grappling with is how to provide jobs to the youth,” asked Rahul Gandhi.JDU spokesman Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said that Rahul Gandhi’s attack on the government for unemployment basically was a reflection of the GA’s desperation. “No one takes the Congress leader seriously after the 58-years of misrule by the Congress and later by RJD, which pushed Bihar in the distress.” State BJP general secretary Devesh Kumar said, “People in the state are scared at the hint of jungle raj regime and unfeasible promises would anyway help the GA to get better this time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-targets-pm-modi-bihar-cm-nitish-kumar-over-poor-development-in-state/story-C5oEh15mNI3McqA9BdNRnN.html
04-11-2020||India||CBI asks US for info on convicted NRIs||New Delhi: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has asked United States’ Department of Justice (DOJ) to provide information and documents on Indian nationals, who commit crime on American soil and are prosecuted there, particularly the ones who plead guilty in economic and cyber crimes, so that their Indian links can be explored by law enforcement agencies in India, people familiar with the development said. Cases of Indian nationals being involved in duping American citizens, or running unfair online practices being probed by Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) or local authorities in the US have come to notice lately which are being closely watched by Indian agencies. Indictment of six persons including an Indian national – Nishad Kunju (31) from Hyderabad by a US grand jury in September this year for conspiring to pay over $100,000 in commercial bribes to employees and contractors of Amazon is the latest instance where CBI and other agencies want to explore the Indian aspect. Another Indian national – Chirag Sachdeva pleaded guilty last month to the charges of participating in a telemarketing scheme to try to embezzle about $600,000 from seven elderly people in America. He was arrested by the FBI in February. In similar case, one Sudhish Kasaba Ramesh from India pleaded guilty earlier this year in the federal court in San Jose, California for intentionally accessing the protected computer of an information technology firm. Indian agencies feel there are many more such cases of online frauds or cyber crimes where Indian citizens, based in the US, are involved and there is possibility they park their illegal money in India, or have associates here, which needs further scrutiny, people cited above said. A senior DOJ official last week attended the three-day national conference on vigilance and corruption organized by the CBI, where the issue was taken up, said an officer who didn’t want to be named. “We have asked DOJ to provide the all the relevant documents on Indians arrested/convicted there,” said second officer. Lately, there has been enhanced cooperation between CBI and the DOJ. In fact, DOJ praised the premier anti-corruption probe agency earlier this month for conducting raids on six companies here in India as part of a parallel investigation in a technical support fraud scam masterminded by an American citizen working with various call centres here. Both the authorities are also informally collaborating on matters like investigation against Nirav Modi and Vijay Mallya, who have investments in the US. Sherbir Panag, Partner at Panag and Babu and international legal expert on white collar crimes, said – “Indian authorities understand that the only way they are likely to receive cooperation from their foreign counterparts, is being proactive themselves to enforcement and information requests. With the Internet fraud too has become globalised - one such example being the call centre’s in Mumbai/Ahmedabad that were defrauding US companies and authorities by impersonation. It is a step in the right direction for Indian authorities to investigate the use of Indian soil for misdeeds outside the country.” During the three-day conference, attended by over 600 officers from all the states and union territories, the agencies and senior government representatives also discussed the increasing role of informal channel like direct cooperation between police and agencies of various countries in gathering information; and the role of Interpol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-asks-us-for-info-on-convicted-nris/story-MsX6GVsEVbTvVJyJtQbzTM.html
04-11-2020||India||Interpol defers its General Assembly||Interpol has, for the first time in its history, decided to postpone its General Assembly (GA), which had been scheduled to take place in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) in December, because of the raging Covid-19 pandemic. The 89th General Assembly of all 194-member countries of Interpol was to discuss cooperation in tackling terrorism, organised crime and criminal networks, among other aspects of policing. Interpol’s executive committee concluded that it is inadvisable and materially impossible to hold the GA anywhere in the world this year.“Due to legal, technical and logistical reasons, there is currently also no viable option for a virtual GA,” Interpol said in a statement.Interpol secretary general Jürgen Stock said: “The UAE authorities worked extremely hard to identify solutions to the problems presented by the Covid-19 pandemic. However, unfortunately it is not possible for the GA to go ahead as planned”. New dates for GA have not yet been announced. India is due to host the 91st GA of Interpol in 2022. It is yet to be ascertained if the postponement of this year’s GA will affect future annual meetings. The postponement implies that besides the budget, which exceptionally can be approved by the executive committee, all other statutory items would remain pending until the next session of GA, Interpol said. This includes elections to the executive committee and Commission for the Control (CCC) of Interpol’s files. The CCC decides cases of red notices after analysing presentations made by fugitives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/interpol-defers-its-general-assembly/story-YyxHIWsZ3ZhkocnwC3YB5O.html
04-11-2020||India||Active Covid-19 cases declining, but surge in four states: Govt||Even as active cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases are declining in the country, at least four states -- Manipur, Delhi, Kerala, and West Bengal -- are reporting a surge in the viral infection, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, citing data from the ministry, said that in Manipur, the number of active cases has gone up to 3,500 from 2,000 cases reported earlier, while Delhi saw a jump from 26,000 to 53,000 cases. “Kerala had reported 77,000 active cases earlier, which now stands at 86,000, and West Bengal saw an increase from 26,000 to 36,000 in the past week,” said Bhushan during a press conference.The health ministry is in constant touch with these states to ensure improved implementation of Covid-19 containment measures, he said.“It doesn’t matter whether numbers are going up or coming down, the strategy of test, track, trace and treat has to be universally followed. This strategy will not go out of fashion, and our primary focus should be to increase and enhance this, at least till the time we achieve case positivity rate of 5% or below,” said Bhushan, also cautioning that with more festivals coming up in the next few weeks, states should avoid a surge in infections during the festive season.According to the health ministry data, India has 541,000 active cases of Covid-19, which is about 6.8% of the total cases of the disease reported in the country. A major reason for active Covid-19 cases decreasing significantly was due to increased recoveries in the past five months, ministry officials said.The data shows that there were about 95,000 recoveries reported in June, which has now gone up to 7.6 million. “These figures are important as these show that our health care infrastructure is not overburdened due to Covid-19 because these active cases either land up at hospitals or spend time in home isolation. Medical monitoring is needed even for those under home isolation,” said Bhushan.When there were around a million active cases in mid-September, there was extra load on health care delivery system in the country. Some of the major states that have reported a significant decline in active cases in the month of November, as compared to October, are Maharashtra with 119,000 active cases this month from October’s 261,000.Karnataka has also seen great improvements too, with the 112,000 active cases reported in October declining to 44,000 in November.Andhra Pradesh saw a drop from 56,000 to 22,000 active cases, as did Tamil Nadu that saw a decline from 46,000 to 19,000 cases. In Uttar Pradesh, there were 49,000 active cases last month that has now come down to 23,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/active-covid-19-cases-declining-but-surge-in-four-states-govt/story-mNRkhiV1sclcVeC0ctSVKL.html
04-11-2020||India||Three new Rafale jets to arrive today||The second batch of the Indian Air Force’s three Rafale fighter jets will arrive at the Jamnagar airbase in Gujarat directly from France on Wednesday as the air force prepares to form its first Rafale squadron at Ambala, officials familiar with the developments said on Tuesday. The first batch of five Rafale jets of the 36 ordered by the IAF reached the Ambala airbase on July 29 after a stopover at the Al Dhafra airbase near Abu Dhabi, although a formal induction ceremony took place later on September 10. “The three jets will not have a stopover on their way. They will be refueled by French and Indian tankers during the journey. The jets are expected to reach Ambala after a one-day break at Jamnagar,” the officials said. An Indian Air Force team, led by a two-star officer, was in France last month to review the progress of the Rafale project ahead of the arrival of the second batch of fighters, as reported by Hindustan Times on October 16. The arrival of more fighters will further boost the IAF’s capability to rapidly deploy the advanced jets amid tensions with neighbouring China and Pakistan, the officials said. The IAF is expecting three to four Rafale jets being delivered every two months, with all the 36 planes likely to join the air force’s combat fleet by the year-end. The Rafale fighters — the first imported jets to be inducted into the IAF in 23 years after the Russian Sukhoi-30 jets entered service in June 1997 — have significantly enhanced the offensive capabilities of the IAF. The IAF is operating the Rafale fighter jets in the Ladakh theatre where the military is on high alert to deal with any provocation by China at a time when talks have failed to reduce friction in the sensitive theatre. IAF chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria last month said the integration of Rafale fighter jets brought in a platform armed with advanced weapons, sensors and technologies that gave the IAF an operational and technological edge. The jets were ordered from France in September 2016 under a government-to-government deal worth ₹59,000 crore. India-specific enhancements on the Rafales include a helmet-mounted sight, radar warning receivers, flight data recorders with storage for 10 hours of data, infrared search and track systems, jammers, cold engine start capability to operate from high-altitude bases and towed decoys to ward off incoming missiles. The twin-engine jet is capable of carrying out a variety of missions – ground and sea attack, air defence and air superiority, reconnaissance and nuclear strike deterrence. It can carry almost 10 tonnes of weapons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-new-rafale-jets-to-arrive-today/story-8orXQXOXMaYAdm7LsOaZjJ.html
04-11-2020||India||Security ramped up at IGI airport after banned outfit calls for flights’ boycott||The Delhi Police and Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) on Tuesday beefed up security arrangements at the Indira Gandhi International airport after a banned outfit named ‘Sikhs for Justice’ (SFJ) called for obstruction of two Air India flights from Delhi to London scheduled on Thursday. The call was made through a video posted on twitter on Tuesday in which Gurpatwant Singh Pannun, introduced as general counsel of SFJ, appealed supporters to boycott flights AI 111 and AI531 from Delhi to London on Thursday. Immediately after the tweet, Delhi Police’s anti-terror unit alerted police at the Delhi airport and the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) that secures the airport.Senior officers from the Delhi police and CISF held meeting on Tuesday to review the security at the airport. Deputy commissioner of police (IGI airport) Rajeev Ranjan said the security has been beefed up adequately. “We have increased number of pickets and every vehicle entering the airport is being checked. Armed plainclothes men have been deployed at the airport as well as in the terminal,” Ranjan said, adding that additional deployment has been made as required, keeping also in mind the festive season.Ranjan said if any incident takes place, action will be taken accordingly. Police have also alerted Air India and other officials at the airport.The MHA had declared the SFJ as an ‘unlawful association’ under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in July last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/security-ramped-up-at-igi-airport-after-banned-outfit-calls-for-flights-boycott/story-2Jt5hn4dUB1TinkDRlT9CO.html
04-11-2020||India||Vista revamp will preserve heritage buildings: Centre tells SC||The Centre on Tuesday informed the Supreme Court that the Central Vista Redevelopment Project, which involves construction of a new Parliament building and a Central Secretariat housing all government offices, will “protect and preserve” heritage buildings while keeping with the laws and environmental safeguards.Making opening arguments on a batch of public interest litigations (PIL) challenging clearances related to the project, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta sought to put at rest apprehensions that the project will destroy heritage buildings and alter the landscape of the area.Appearing for the Centre, Mehta said, “The petitioner’s arguments on heritage structure proceeds on a deliberately misunderstood factual position that heritage buildings are being demolished and a new project as “greenfield project” is coming up...The petitioner has purposefully misunderstood the ambit and scope of consultancy contract and presented a false picture that the respondents (Centre and statutory agencies) have abdicated its functioning to a private consultant.”“Heritage buildings will not be destroyed. The stress on them will be reduced by shifting out government offices from them into the newly planned Central Secretariat building,” he said.Mehta said the Parliament and common Central Secretariat projects are not integrated but mutually exclusive. “The construction of one does not depend on the other. The year 2022 coincides with the 75th year of India’s Independence by when the new Parliament building is sought to be completed. This was the urgency for beginning with the Parliament project.”The bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjeev Khanna said, “The petitioners have argued that these plans that you prepared were not in public domain. The whole argument is built on the ground that nothing about the project is available in public domain.” Mehta said much of the information that he has shared with the court was available on government websites. The bench asked Mehta to give a list of such information available for public consumption on government websites.The bench asked Mehta about the need for undertaking a study, assessing the option of building a new Parliament as against refurbishing the existing Parliament. Mehta replied, “For us to decide that a new Parliament building is needed, we do not need a separate study.” He compared it by saying, “If feel the house I am living in is not acceptable, do I really need an expert to determine that?” On the allegation that the project will be a drain on public exchequer, the Centre said the government was paying a huge rent to maintain its offices in different buildings. In most buildings, office space was lying unused and commuting between these was proving to be a costly and time-consuming affair. The rent saved will work out to be roughly ₹1,000 crore annually, Mehta said, adding, “This will be a cost-saving project.” The petitions challenging the project have been filed by one Rajeev Suri and former Armyman Anuj Srivastava and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vista-revamp-will-preserve-heritage-buildings-centre-tells-sc/story-CB2jmlRmKREAR9tFigiX5J.html
04-11-2020||India||Supreme Court panel to set virtual hearing benchmarks||The Supreme Court’s e-committee has set up a panel that will focus on setting benchmarks and standards for digitising courts and providing virtual interface to litigants through videoconferencing and live streaming, its (the e-committee’s) chairman justice DY Chandrachud said. This panel will recommend rules, requirement of digital infrastructure, and budgetary allocation for implementing the projects, he added.As a first step, the panel, with the help of experts, has framed Model Rules for Videoconferencing for the benefit of high courts that are yet to frame Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) to conduct courts through videoconferencing. At present, most high courts function through videoconferencing on a host of videoconferencing apps available in the public domain. The Supreme Court itself uses Vidyo while high courts prefer Zoom, Cisco Webex, Google Meet, or Jitsi, besides Vidyo.Justice Chandrachud, the chairman of the Supreme Court e-committee, said: “I have formed a broad-based committee that has already framed model rules for videoconferencing. The committee is also looking into live streaming and digitization and to have a National Best Practices Standards in this regard for the entire judiciary.”He added that while this committee has not reached the stage of framing rules for live streaming, where the Gujarat high court has taken the lead. “What the Gujarat High Court has done is to put its content on YouTube. That is an option which is available but the committee is looking at storing the data. It will be systematically done and not as an ad hoc approach.”The panel he has set up will be exploring the infrastructure required for live streaming and storage of data, technical standards, cost involved and other requirements. “The exercise is going on and there is no time frame fixed. How the data is to be stored and who should access it are questions that need to be gone into,” justice Chandrachud said. The composition of the broad-based committee is not known, but it includes domain experts.On October 26, during suo moto proceedings on framing of guidelines for the courts during Covid-19, Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde sounded a note of caution on live streaming. “In principle, I agree that there should be live streaming but in practice, there can be negative use or abuse of live streaming,” he said. The CJI referred to a host of complaints he has to routinely deal with on virtual court proceedings held through videoconferencing.The seeds for live streaming were planted by the Supreme Court itself in a landmark judgment in September 2018 where the Court gave the necessary go-ahead for it in matters of national and constitutional importance that impact the public at large. This was the first step towards opening up courts as the three-judge bench in that decision (justice Chandrachud was a member) held: “Sunlight is the best disinfectant”.Attorney General KK Venugopal on October 26 suggested to a bench headed by CJI SA Bobde that the Supreme Court should follow the example of the Gujarat high court. He also referred to the 2018 judgement. In September this year, a Parliamentary Standing Committee submitted a report suggesting permanent virtual proceedings not only for courts but for tribunals in certain category of cases. Coining the benefits of digital justice as “cheaper and faster”, the Rajya Sabha panel chaired by BJP lawmaker Bhupendra Yadav said in its interim report: “This (virtual courts) will cut down the cost and increase efficiency in disposal of cases without unnecessarily being adjourned. Virtual courts can deliver faster results with fewer resources. They can also reduce commute time to courts and waiting time.”The Supreme Court has been conducting court hearings through videoconferencing since March. Though demands to resume physical court hearings have been raised by lawyer bodies, this has not been considered feasible in view of the growing number of coronavirus disease cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-panel-to-set-virtual-hearing-benchmarks/story-iTT98hnrjkPVwjJXrmKEFP.html
04-11-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||By the end of October, we were supposed to have at least some data from the Pfizer/BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine’s Phase 3 trials. That’s been delayed (not by much, according to some reports) even as it is increasingly becoming clear that the timelines most of us (and this includes executives in Big Pharma, government officials, health care experts, analysts, and journalists) have in mind for the availability of the first Covid-19 vaccines are far too aggressive, perhaps even impossible.VACCINE HOPES DELAYEDIt is becoming increasingly clear that the timelines most of us have in mind for the availability of the first Covid-19 vaccines are far too aggressive. Experts now say that a mid-2021 timeline for the vaccine is more realistic It could well turn out that I am wrong – it’s happened before – but many experts agree that a mid-2021 timeline for the vaccine is more realistic. Then there is the question of capacity and availability, and the challenges of distributing a vaccine. And at least for the first vaccines that will be available, there’s a very high likelihood that people who are fortunate enough to get a shot early will need a second shot before everyone in the world has had their first.Which brings us to the question I have been leading up to: What’s Plan B?Last Wednesday (October 28), provided one answer (actually, to my mind, the only one). That day, the Australian city of Melbourne emerged from a lockdown that lasted 112 days. It was a lockdown that involved shelter-in-place rules; closure of most stores, restaurants, and gyms; bar on social gatherings, indoor and outdoor, including weddings; and out-of-city travel restrictions (people couldn’t travel beyond 5km of their homes). WHAT’S PLAN B?Australia and New Zealand have both depended on lockdowns to crush the resurgence of the virus; and both have been relatively successful. Now most European nations are imposing stringent lockdowns to cope with a near-debilitating second waveOther parts of the state of Victoria also saw lockdowns, but none as stringent as Melbourne. The city’s hard lockdown (which was progressively eased) was controversial , but, imposed in the wake of a second wave of cases in Melbourne and Victoria, it was successful, with the number of cases going down to zero by last week. It isn’t just Australia which has depended on lockdowns to crush the virus; its neighbour New Zealand has, too, in what its recently re-elected Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern terms the country’s “go hard, go early” strategy.With most European nations now imposing stringent lockdowns – France’s is near total – to cope with a near-debilitating second wave of the pandemic, more people are beginning to look to the Australian and New Zealand approach (sure, it helps that both are relatively remote, sparsely populated, and islands). Not too long ago, many of these leaders wouldn’t even consider a second lockdown. The UK’s Boris Johnson, for instance, said a second lockdown in the country would be “disastrous”, especially in terms of its impact on the economy; over the weekend, he announced a stringent four-week one as it became clear that the country’s health system was within weeks of being drowned in cases.DEBATE OVER SCHOOLSSchools, however, will likely remain open through most of Europe. Research shows that in regions where there is no community transmission, it is alright to open schools, especially for young children. It’s older children who are more vulnerable, and could also end up transmitting the virus moreInterestingly, schools, even in France and the UK – both countries are seeing far more cases in the second round than they did in the first; the seven-day average of new cases in France is 43,000, around 10 times what it was during the peak of the first wave; in the UK, it is 22,000, around four times -- will remain open during the lockdown. And when Melbourne started easing restrictions, schools were among the first things it opened. Research conducted in several countries shows that in regions where there is no community transmission (or limited community transmission, a term preferred by India’s health ministry), it is alright to open schools, especially for young children (this would mean primary and middle school) because they are unlikely to spread the virus. It is older children who are more vulnerable, and could also end up transmitting the virus more. But I digress; the debate over whether or not schools are safe could fill an entire edition of Hindustan Times.The only viable Plan B, the only way to manage a sharp spike in cases that comes with a new wave of the pandemic, is a lockdown. No one likes lockdowns, but they seem to work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-i9U72m4wdHGyD9qosNAHgL.html
04-11-2020||India||Mehbooba Mufti vows to fight for Valley’s youth, restore J&K’s special status||Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti on Tuesday vowed to safeguard the future of the youth of Jammu and Kashmir by striving for the restoration of the erstwhile state’s special status.In an interactive session with the youth wing of her party, she asked them to remain ready to fight for the “basic rights, integrity and injustice”, especially the decisions taken after August 5, 2019.Since her release after 14 months in detention, it was the PDP chief’s first interaction with the party’s youth arm at her residence, where she asked them about the situation in their respective areas.Extending their support to her, the youth leaders of the party said they will fight against the new laws and will never accept the unilateral changes made by the Centre after the scrapping of Article 370.Mehbooba later said that selected youth were called by the party for the special meet. “I wanted to hear from the youth about the political and economic situation in their areas.”People have been facing a lot of hardships since August 5 last year when the special powers of J&K were removed, said Mehbooba.“The central government’s policy since then has been anti-people and anti-J&K. Recently, it (government) introduced the provision to prematurely retire government employees after 22 years of service. The new land laws and domicile law were also discussed in this interaction,” she told the media.She told the youth that PDP will be on the forefront to face any situation. “I will be leading the youth in this fight. We have already fought with the task force, surrendered militants and Prevention of Terrorism Act (POTA). Today, our fight is for our own integrity and for resolution of the Kashmir issue. I will fight for the future of the youth.”Ever since Mehbooba’s release from detention, the PDP workers have been actively organising meetings and protests both in Kashmir and Jammu, despite many senior PDP leaders leaving the party. Recently, three senior leaders resigned from the party in the Jammu region. However, the PDP chief has been able to galvanise the party cadres since her release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mehbooba-vows-to-fight-for-valley-s-youth-restore-j-k-s-special-status/story-iOUohb9fI5olFs50MRs6aK.html
04-11-2020||Editorials||The quest for government jobs | HT Editorial||Tejashwi Yadav’s promise of a million government jobs in Bihar, if elected to power, has brought back focus on a remarkable feature of India’s political economy, as well as social structures and aspirations. Even after three decades of a relatively open economy, with a robust private sector, the first priority for young people — in terms of employment — is government jobs. This may be surprising to some, for the elite has begun considering government jobs low-paying and shifted to more lucrative professions. But the fact is that for a majority of India’s graduates, it is the sarkar that remains the object of ambition. One obvious attraction is the stability and security of tenure. The private sector is seen as unstable where the turns and twists of the business cycle and changing requirements of employers can lead to retrenchment. The government is associated with permanence. The second is pay. Except for a tiny sliver of the population in corporate jobs, the salaries in the private sector are not high and the benefits non-existent. The third factor is social status. Given the respect that the State has commanded, getting a government job is seen as a path of upward mobility and gives opportunities for power projection within one’s family and social circle. This throws up a challenge for policymaking. The Indian State remains under-staffed and all units of governments can help meet the challenge by filling vacancies. But while expanding State capacity is important, there will never be enough government jobs to match aspirations. Aligning skills, availability of jobs, and ambition are important for both governments and citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-quest-for-government-jobs/story-FMwc8NusNNjhHdlo05zUgN.html
