06-11-2020||News||Trump may go, but Trumpism is here to stay, writes Dhruva Jaishankar||The 2020 United States (US) presidential election has turned out to be strange, memorable, and tortuous. Perhaps it was always destined to be so, given the set-up.On the Republican side, you had an unusual incumbent in President Donald Trump. Four years ago, after running against the establishment of his own party, he won the Electoral College despite losing the popular vote. He was not viewed as presidential in his manner or disposition, a flaw acknowledged even by many of his supporters. Over the course of his first term, he was impeached by the House of Representatives. And in the midst of a re-election campaign, he had overseen the worst public health crisis confronting the US in a century as well as a precipitous economic downturn.And yet, Trump enjoyed steady approval ratings of over 40% throughout the duration of his four years as president. A solid majority of Americans approved of his handling of the economy. In the eyes of his electoral base, Trump had also delivered on his promises, such as on stemming immigration, cutting taxes, and nominating conservative Supreme Court justices.On the Democratic side, you had a more predictable contender in former Vice-President Joe Biden. Biden emerged as a consensus candidate after a bruising Democratic primary contest. He polled well among moderates and independents. Unlike Hillary Clinton four years ago, he had low negative ratings among likely voters, and his campaign managed to raise record amounts of funds. Biden’s critics and opponents caricatured him as geriatric and a creature of the establishment.Yet, in the months since clinching the nomination, he fared well in public opinion surveys against Trump. On the cusp of Election Day on November 3, Biden was leading the president 52% to 42% in national polls; he was expected to comfortably win a majority in the Electoral College, and was given a 90% chance of winning by respected election analysts.The final results may still make 2020 one of the closest presidential elections in modern US history. Trump handily won four states that had been expected to be competitive: Florida, Texas, Ohio, and Iowa. Biden comfortably won the overall popular vote but scraped only narrow wins in the critical states of Wisconsin and Michigan. Voting in five states that would collectively determine the winner — Pennsylvania, Georgia, Arizona, North Carolina, and Nevada —are close and final results may take days, but Biden’s lead in Pennsylvania on Friday gives him a rather decisive edge. Although he may eventually lose the presidency, Trump managed to demonstrate considerable and durable support after four years in power. The Republican Party will likely retain control of the Senate, which the Democrats had earlier looked poised to seize, although two run-off elections in Georgia could determine the final outcome. The democrats did manage to retain the House of Representatives, but with fewer seats.What explains the unexpected closeness of this year’s US elections? It certainly was not tepid voter turnout: The percentage of ballots cast may have been the highest in any US election since 1900. Based on exit polls, Biden fared well with voters under the age of 50, won two-thirds of moderate voters, over half of independents, and lured 8% of Trump supporters from four years ago.The real reasons for surprise lay elsewhere. Public opinion surveys in key swing states overestimated Biden’s lead over Trump by between 2% and 8%. The 5% of voters who determined their vote in the week prior to the election also broke overwhelmingly for Trump. Additionally, Trump fared better among minority groups relative to 2016, particularly older and college-educated Hispanic voters and younger African-Americans.Although the most likely outcome at this juncture appears to be a Biden presidency, a Republican-led Senate, and a Democratic House of Representatives, Trump’s surprisingly strong showing will leave a legacy. Trumpism will not be going away any time soon and will remain a potent force within the Republican Party. A narrower win may also serve as a check on elements of the more radical agenda of the Democrats; this could, in turn, exacerbate divisions between the Left-leaning progressive and centrist wings of the Democratic Party. Already, the two factions are deriving opposite lessons from the Republicans’ stronger-than-expected showing. While progressives believe they should not have made compromises, moderates fear that the Left alienated some conservative constituencies.For a partner country such as India, the broad overarching implications of the election are real, even if the actual political outcomes remain fluid. Some of the changes wrought by Trump will remain, among Republicans but also as a consequence of a divided Congress and perhaps an equally divided Democratic Party. These strains might include a wariness of international trading agreements, overseas military commitments, and immigration regimes that threaten middle-class employment. A potential Biden presidency may offer a greater degree of predictability and professionalism, improving the foundations of American international power. India will probably continue to find sympathetic allies in the US Senate, reflecting an alignment in thinking on the emerging strategic competition with China. New Delhi could also find in Washington a willingness to partner with India on the climate crisis, emerging technologies, and even democracy. Finally, there may be more leeway in managing the inevitable differences in perspectives that will remain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/trump-may-go-but-trumpism-is-here-to-stay/story-4KubREtdgJvdSI7wb1NeeO.html
06-11-2020||News||The end of Inspector Raj in India’s IT sector||Three months ago, in an article in this paper, I wrote about the utter meaninglessness of persisting with the Other Service Provider (OSP) regulations. I pointed out that while these restrictions may have made sense a decade ago, when data was scarce, the insistence on continuing to require the Information Technology (IT) industry to comply with its onerous technical and organisational requirements in the current context is unwise. On Thursday night, the Government of India released a set of revised OSP guidelines that have effectively put an end to the inspector raj that these outdated regulations had perpetuated for so long.There is no doubt that the amendments, in themselves, are both broad and far-reaching. In the first place, the types of entities covered by the regulations have now been limited to those that carry out voice-based business process outsourcing services — a radical change from the previous expansive definition that included the full gamut of IT-enabled services. The previous broad definition was the reason for random acts of harassment by department of telecommunications (DoT) officials who were free to use the ambiguity inherent in the language to try and bring all sorts of IT services within its ambit.Those few entities to whom OSP regulations now apply only need to comply with a few security obligations as well as ensure, at a high-level, that toll bypass does not occur. They are free to share infrastructure between international and domestic OSPs and use closed user groups for internal communications. The work-from-home restrictions that were particularly chaffing in the context of the highly mobile workforce of today have been changed into a work-from-anywhere regime. In addition, restrictions such as the need for a network diagram and using static IP addresses for all agents working from home, have all been done away with. Unlike under the previous regime, international OSPs are free to host their EPABX overseas and are only obliged to maintain a copy of their call data records (CDR) and system logs in India. Domestic OSPs, however, will still have to maintain an EPABX and client data centre in India. With respect to specific instances of unlawful content, OSP is required to extend support to authorities in tracing malicious calls, messages or communications carried over its network.But perhaps most significant is the fact that OSPs are no longer required to register themselves with the DoT. That along with all the associated compliance obligations — the filing of network diagrams, requirements to furnish bank guarantees and the obligation to ensure that each additional site obtains a separate registration — have been eliminated entirely.It is this liberalisation from registration that is likely to have the greatest impact on the sector. Where, in the past, companies had to think twice before setting out to establish businesses that provided services that, even tangentially, might have been covered by the extremely broad provisions of the definition, they can now simply set up their operations and make sure they comply with the few requirements that apply to that portion of their business that might be considered to be a voice-based business process outsourcing service.There is work to be done unwinding the mountain of compliance that has already been put in place. As a result of this reform, thousands of site-specific registrations have been rendered infructuous virtually overnight and bank guarantees that have been submitted over the decades will have to be returned. But perhaps, most significantly, the cadres of bureaucrats whose sole business it was to manage this obscure corner of the regulatory landscape will have to be disbanded and put to better use elsewhere.As important as it is that we celebrate this success, we should, at the same time, pause to reflect on what this reform signals. OSPs are not the glamorous poster boys of the IT industry — that title is reserved for the e-commerce unicorns and the many iconic start-ups that dot the modern tech landscape. Neither are they the titans of Indian industry who have built the many IT products that today run the banking sector, the health care space or even, in several instance, the government. These companies serve a more mundane role —performing operations that keep things ticking behind the scenes, supporting the front-offices of every type of business on the planet. This is an industry that has no white knight to espouse its cause — and as a result, for decades had no option but to put up with the increasingly onerous obligations they were being subjected to.Reforming these regulations was never going to be front page news. However, the long-term impact of these changes are going to be immeasurable. But, more significantly, by doing away with such a staple of bureaucratic control as mandatory registration as well as eliminating all mention of penal consequences for breach are indications that the government is intent on making changes that will actually make a difference. I am eager to see what the government turns its attention to next.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-end-of-inspector-raj-in-india-s-it-sector/story-Usm0KWP73ZZFUaVeIYqG3K.html
06-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body’s standing committee sanctions Sion hospital revamp proposal||The much-delayed revamp plan for Lokmanya Tilak Municipal General Hospital or Sion hospital will finally get a boost as the civic standing committee on Friday sanctioned the proposal worth more than ₹600 crore including taxes. The revamp involves construction in a plot spread across 32 acres which will be completed in three phases over the next five years.As per the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) plan, the revamp includes upgradation of the hospital to 1,900 beds across 19 storeys, construction of a 25-storey hostel and a 20-storey medical college. It will also include redeveloping staff quarters and a three-storey transit accommodation building. The hospital will also have quarters for nurses and resident medical officers. A senior civic official said, “The reconstruction of the hospital building will be done in phases, so it does not affect the operations as they will continue throughout.”The BMC standing committee is a 26-member statutory body which handles the allotment of tenders and controls the treasury. Few corporators from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) who are members of the committee strongly opposed the proposal in Friday’s meeting. Bhalchandra Shirsat, BJP corporator, said, “The work is essential and we are not opposing the work. However, the opposition is to the way this contract was awarded to the bidder. There are irregularities in finalising the contractor for the work.”Ravi Raja, leader of opposition in the civic body and Congress leader, said, “This is such an important proposal for the city. The hospital handles hundreds of patients on a daily basis and its revamp is crucial. Such baseless opposition to the proposal is unnecessary.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-s-standing-committee-sanctions-sion-hospital-revamp-proposal/story-8cTBA8KB2DDxdmGcXbcSgN.html
06-11-2020||Mumbai||V-Cs are against reopening of colleges and varsities: Maharashtra minister Uday Samant||Vice-chancellors (V-Cs) of all state universities are currently unanimously against reopening universities and colleges, said Maharashtra minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant on Friday. In a press conference, Samant said the state will consider expert opinion before deciding on the status of reopening colleges. “For now, V-Cs are not comfortable with bringing students back to colleges, especially because Covid-19 cases are still on the higher side across the state. We should have a clearer understanding on this topic after Diwali,” Samant said, adding that a meeting will be held between V-Cs of all state universities along with the state disaster management committee for suggestions before announcing the state’s final decision. The press conference was held a day after the University Grants Commission (UGC) released guidelines advising higher education institutes outside containment zones to reopen in phases, starting with PhD/research scholars, then postgraduate students and then final-year undergraduate students. It further clarified that colleges need to ensure that the number of students attending classes on campus at any given time should not be more than half of their total strength. Samant said UGC has left the final decision on reopening colleges to respective state governments. “States have been asked to announce their final decision in this matter after consultation with respective state departments about the current Covid-19 conditions,” he said. He further said that final-year (summer 2020) exams were successfully conducted online across the 13 state universities with over 90% students managing to appear for the exams online. Several universities have also started declaring results for these exams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/v-cs-are-against-reopening-of-colleges-and-varsities-maharashtra-minister-uday-samant/story-UiI1al8wEEFmWCMuebHgMP.html
06-11-2020||Mumbai||‘My Family, My Responsibility’ survey: 14% of those with cough, fever test positive for Covid-19||Under the door-to-door scheme ‘My Family, My Responsibility’, 14.2% people with influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) were found infected with Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. In addition, 23 lakh people across the state have been diagnosed with co-morbidities such as hypertension, diabetes, heart disease and cancer among others.Since the outbreak of the disease in March, doctors have observed that people with co-morbidities are most susceptible to Covid-19 which mostly affects lungs. These patients are at a higher risk of developing multi-organ failures, which increases the chances of mortality, said doctors. Taking this into account, the state government launched the survey on September 15 to create a health map of all districts. As per the latest data, till October, 27,463,793 houses have been surveyed covering a population of 11.2 crore. In Mumbai, more than 1.5 crore people have been screened under the survey. During the survey, health volunteers have found 357,173 patients with ILI and SARI. These individuals had symptoms similar to Covid-19 such as sneezing, cough, fever, among others. Of them, 322,466 were tested for Covid-19. Of those tested, 51,064 have been diagnosed with the infection with a positivity rate of 15.8%. This is lesser than the state’s cumulative positivity of 18.4% as of November 5.“We have completed covering almost 99% of the households in the state. But as many people have gone back to their hometowns during the lockdown, we haven’t been able to include such migrated residents,” said Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer.As many as 115,481 Covid-19 patients were found in home quarantine during the door-to-door survey while 239,473 recovered patients were checked and provided counselling.“This will help to create a health map at micro and macro level of health planning. Now, we know which areas have what kind of patients who can be the most susceptible to Covid-19. Then accordingly, we will design our health schemes and improve our infrastructure,” said Dr Awate.More than one lakh volunteers are working with the state health department to screen individuals by checking temperature and oxygen saturation levels through an oximeter, followed by a set of questions on symptoms, international travel history or exposure to any infected patient, among others. The survey has revealed that hypertension is the most common cause of co-morbidity. As many as 1,308,277 people were diagnosed with hypertension which refers to persistently elevated blood pressure in arteries. Following this, 8.6 lakh people were diagnosed with the diabetes that causes high blood sugar. Also, 73,055 individuals had heart diseases while 17,843 had cancer. Along with this, 106,877 had other ailments including tuberculosis, HIV, organ-related issues among others.“Even after recovery, many are developing post-Covid illnesses. So, this health map will be helpful for the state government for further references,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, member of the state’s Covid-19 task force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/my-family-my-responsibility-survey-14-of-those-with-cough-fever-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-uRmOwBms0FEq53tjgWyvNI.html
06-11-2020||Chandigarh||Despite spending crores, no respite from stray dog menace in Ludhiana||Even though the Ludhiana municipal corporation has spent over Rs 4 crore on stray dog sterilisation in the last past five-and-a-half years, there is no respite from dog bite cases in the city.The stray dog population has been on a continuous rise even as the civic body claims to have sterilised over 50,000 dogs since 2015, when the project was started. The recent incident in Tajganj area wherein an eight-year-old boy was viciously attacked by a pack of stray dogs without any provocation, has resulted in an uproar among residents, who have raised questions on the working of the civic body. The victim’s father, Amanpreet Singh said, “My son suffered injuries on his legs and back in the attack, and had to undergo a surgery. But the civic body doesn’t seem concerned. It has still not taken any steps to ensure the safety of residents.” Swaranjit Singh, a resident of Dugri Phase 2, said, “Sometimes it becomes difficult for us to step out of the house as there are four to five dogs roaming around on the streets. The MC should find a concrete solution to this problem.”On Friday, residents of SBS Nagar Block-E submitted a complaint against the menace to the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT). Arvind Sharma, a resident, said, “A large number of stray dogs can be spotted in the area, many of which try to attack the residents. The Tajganj area incident has left the residents, especially the women and children in the locality, worried.” The dog sterilisation project was commenced in February 2015 and the MC was paying Rs 760 per dog to the private company involved in the project till December 2018.The MC had entered into a new contract with the same company in January 2019 and the rate was revised to Rs 990 per dog. As per the officials, over 50,000 dogs have been sterilised in the city so far at a cost of Rs 4 crore.Requesting anonymity, an official said that even after sterilising a large number of dogs, the MC has not received a positive response from residents due to the frequent dog bite incidents. The main reason behind this is that the MC has failed to follow the ward-wise schedule while sterilising the dogs. “The target cannot be achieved if MC teams are sent to different wards every day as they should be allowed to focus on just one ward at a time. The number of complaints being received by the civic body is also not decreasing,” the official said.Dog sterilisation stalled due to shortage of manpower:Meanwhile, amid the rising dog bite cases, the city’s dog sterilisation project being taken up at the Animal Birth Control (ABC) Centre at Haibowal Dairy Complex has come to a halt due to lack of manpower.Work has been stalled since the last week of September when the workers and doctor involved in the project left citing personal reasons. This is the second time that the project has been affected in the last three months. It was also stopped in August due to a shortage of workers.Mayor Balkar Sandhu conducted an inspection at the ABC centre on Friday and said that the dog sterilisation process will be restarted in the city from Saturday. Mayor Balkar Sandhu said, “The project came to halt due to the exodus of labourers following the pandemic outbreak. The project will be restarted on Saturday, with focus on areas from where frequent complaints have been coming. The MC is also working to expand the project under the Smart City mission so that more dogs could be sterilised on a daily basis. A new building is being established for the purpose.” MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “I have sought a report from the officials concerned regarding the project so that necessary steps can be taken to restart the sterilisation project.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/despite-spending-crores-no-respite-from-stray-dog-menace-in-ludhiana/story-cKZFLpMx0h696OVWuyrMEL.html
06-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Police arrest history-sheeter for running illegal pay-and-park racket near Dindoshi court||Kurar police arrested a man with criminal antecedents for allegedly running an illegal pay-and-park racket near Dindoshi court on Thursday. The accused threatened a businessman who refused to pay the accused ₹100 as parking charges for the day. The arrested accused has been identified Gabbar Ahmed Idris alias Mohammad Arif, 30. Kurar police are also looking for two other accused identified as Irfan alias Batla, 25, and Sabir Sayyer, 30. According to the complaint by Attar Rabbani, 45, a cloth merchant from Malad (East), when he refused to pay Idris, the accused threw a stone at him which hit his vehicle’s windshield and broke the glass.Rabbani told police that on Thursday around 5pm, he found a free space at Rani Sati Marg and parked his car. Idris immediately approached him and demanded ₹100 as parking fee.“When Rabbani refused to pay the fee, the accused got angry, abused and threatened to kill him,” said a Kurar police officer.Babasaheb Salunkhe, senior inspector from Kurar police station, said, “Following his complaint, we registered a case for running an illegal pay-and-park racket and demanding money from vehicle owners. We have arrested one accused and are investigating the case.” Police have booked Idris under section 387 (putting person in fear of death or of grievous hurt, in order to commit extortion), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of other), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of ₹50) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).According to Kurar police, there are 12 cases of attempted dacoity, theft and a narcotics possession registered against Idris at Kurar police station and three cases of house-breaking and theft registered against him at Dindoshi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-arrest-history-sheeter-for-running-illegal-pay-and-park-racket-near-dindoshi-court/story-oeEizfxFNpZ0Vxzt89F5QL.html
06-11-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC intervention ensures visually-impaired BMC employees get funds for Diwali||After the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) informed the Bombay high court (HC) on Friday that it could not comply with its October 28 order to pay the first instalment of salary arrears to its 250 visually-impaired employees before Diwali, the court insisted that the civic authority pay some sizeable amount to the aggrieved employees so that they may be able to enjoy Diwali. The civic body thereafter informed the court that it would pay a sum of ₹15,000 to the employees before Diwali and pay the remaining arrears along with the December salary. The court accepted the undertaking and kept the interim application pending for compliance till the next hearing on November 24. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the interim application filed by the BMC in the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by the National Association of the Blind (NAB), was informed by civic body’s advocate, Kejali Mastakar that the application was filed to seek an extension of time to implement the October 28 order of the HC. On October 28, while disposing of the PIL filed by NAB, the bench had held that the BMC was responsible for its employees, and as they had been exempted by the civic authority from attending duty due to the pandemic situation, they deserved to be paid their salaries. The court had directed the BMC to pay the salary arrears of the visually-impaired employees who were not paid since July, in two instalments – the first instalment being before Diwali, and the second after the festival. While expressing its inability to comply with the HC order, Mastakar submitted that as the salaries of employees are generated through the SAP platform, the civic authorities could not bypass it. He said that the BMC needed time to reset the attendance of the employees. The court, however, insisted that the BMC commissioner find a way to pay the disabled employees so that they may enjoy Diwali. After taking instructions, Mastakar informed the court that the assistant municipal commissioner had confirmed that the employees would be paid ₹15,000 before Diwali, and after the technical problem is resolved, the salary arrears would be paid along with the December salary. After hearing the undertaking, the court said, “We hope and trust that in the meanwhile, the municipal corporation shall do its best to release payments to the physically-disabled employees, notwithstanding that there have been impediments in the process of disbursement of salary as depicted in the application.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-intervention-ensures-visually-impaired-bmc-employees-get-funds-for-diwali/story-8MWW3yyQIiWZAsAr5vhVWL.html
06-11-2020||Mumbai||Active Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra drop to 102,099, lowest in state since July 12||The tally of active Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra dropped to 102,099 — lowest in almost four months — on Friday as the number of daily new infections has gradually dropped and recoveries has steadily risen. Before Friday, the state’s lowest active cases count was 103,516 on July 12. The active cases tally rose to 301,752 on September 17 — highest since the first Covid-19 cases was reported in the state in March — and dropped to 196,288 on October 14, before further dipping in the past three weeks. As of Friday, Pune has highest number of active cases (22,717), followed by Mumbai (16,817) and Thane (15,087). The state reported 5,027 new cases and 161 deaths on Friday, taking its tally up to 1,710,314 and toll to 44,965. The number of recovered Covid-19 patients rose to 1,562,342 with an addition of 11,060 on Friday, pushing up the state’s recovery rate to 91.35%.Of the 5,027 cases reported on Friday, Mumbai had the most infections at 792, followed by Pune district at 642, Nashik at 467 and Nagpur at 337. Of the fatalities, 22 were from Mumbai, 17 from Pune, 14 from Solapur and Kalyan-Dombivli reported six deaths. The state’s case fatality rate (CFR) stood at 2.63%.Meanwhile, the state health department during a presentation before the cabinet on Thursday projected a rise in cases after Diwali. “Coinciding with a drop in temperature owing to the winter and opening up of more activities in the state there could be a rise in cases. The winter season is expected to witness cold waves in northern parts of the country. It will have an impact in Maharashtra like we witnessed in 2015. Since the virus survives for more time in cold temperature, there could be a spike in cases. Urban areas may see more cases than rural areas because of the density of population,” said an official, on condition of anonymity. State health minister Rajesh Tope, too, had said on Thursday that the state is prepared to face a surge in cases as they have an adequate number of beds, ventilators, medicines, drugs, and other equipment. According to data, which were presented before the cabinet, the state’s doubling rate was 217.69 days on November 4 as against 36.31 days on August 31. The weekly average of the growth rate dropped to 0.32% on November 4 from 1.31% on September 30, 3.32% on June 30 and 27.2% on March 31. The weekly CFR, too, dropped to 2.03% during October 28-November 3 period from 2.67% during October 14-20 period. The number of daily tests dropped from 73,317 three weeks ago on October 16 to 64,485 tests on November 4, stated the presentation, adding that the state government reached out to 27,463,793 households of total 27,633,982 families during the ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ drive and it helped trace 51,064 Covid-19 cases. Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer, said authorities have been working on two fronts to tackle the potential second wave. “We have been creating awareness among people for the adoption of Covid-appropriate behaviour and at the same time, augmenting our health infrastructure. During the peak time (first two weeks of September), there were more than 3 lakh active patients in the state. We are ramping up infrastructure and logistics for 10% more patients than during the peak period. All district authorities have been given fortnightly projections, asking them to ramp up the infrastructure,” he said.Awate said the drop in daily testing is owing to decrease in cases of influenza like illness (ILI) and Covid-19 infections and suspected contacts. “The daily tests have dropped to 70,000 from 85,000 few weeks ago. We are still conducting more than 250 tests per million per day against the World Health Organisation’s mandate for 140/mn/day tests. But at the same time, we are targeting the ‘super spreaders’ from whom the possibility of spread of the virus is more. Our drive to trace and track the suspected segments and outreach program My Family, My Responsibility have helped us in covering more than 90% of the population,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/active-covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra-drop-to-102-099-lowest-in-state-since-july-12/story-GphGI2xNN3xo4dWhQyttYL.html
06-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government plans to reopen schools for Classes 9 to 12 on November 23: Education minister||The state education department plans to reopen schools for Classes 9 to 12 on November 23, education minister Varsha Gaikwad announced on Friday. “We have proposed a phased reopening of schools post Diwali break, as the government is trying to unlock various sectors in the state. The idea is to start with higher classes first, and for this we have drafted detailed standard operating procedures (SOPs). The draft SOPs are submitted for the chief minister’s approval,” said Gaikwad in a statement. Parents said many will still be sceptical to send their children to schools. “Parents are worried about sending their children until there is a vaccine or Covid-19 cases go down substantially. They will not want to take any risks when it comes to the health of the children. The government should explore flexible options of online and offline learning,” said Anu Sinha, a parent from Thane. Gaikwad said care will be taken to ensure that all safety protocols, as suggested by the central and the state government, shall be followed while reopening schools. “The government will ensure that appropriate measures are in place for the safety of students and teachers in schools,” Gaikwad added. On Friday, HT had reported the government’s plans of conducting Class 10 and 12 board exams in May. In June, the education department submitted SOPs on online learning which also consisted of plans for physical reopening of schools. However, with the Centre’s decision of not starting schools until October, schools in the state could not reopen. Now with the Diwali break approaching, the government plans to reopen schools only by the end of November. As per previous SOPs, school management committees were asked to consider options like shift-wise running of schools, staggering school timings, changing seating arrangement in classrooms, disinfecting schools, not allowing crowding in buses, etc. Similarly, local administrations were asked to ensure sanitisation of schools and screening of teachers and students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-plans-to-reopen-schools-for-classes-9-to-12-on-november-23-education-minister/story-O51pgjva03PP1bbZZ5BgdK.html
06-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government proposes reservation change of plot at Kanjurmarg for Metro car shed||The Maharashtra government on Friday proposed to change the reservation of the contentious 43.76-hectare Kanjurmarg plot for “Metro car depot and allied uses”. The plot is at the centre of a row between the state and Union governments after the former moved the Metro-3 (Colaba-Bandra-Seepz) car shed there from Aarey Milk Colony, which was picked by the previous BJP-led government in Maharashtra to construct the depot. Nirmal Chaudhari, under-secretary, urban development department (UDD) of the state government issued a notification on Friday to change the Kanjurmarg plot’s reservation and has invited suggestions and objections from the public over the proposal. The plot has reservations for various public purposes, including affordable housing, police staff quarters, garden/park, and municipal school, among others in the Draft Development Plan 2034 and Development Control and Promotion Regulation 2034.The land parcel is proposed to be transferred to the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), which in December 2018 had requested the state government for its allotment to build the car shed. A row over the ownership of the plot erupted recently after the Central government’s Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) said that the land belongs to it. In a letter to Maharashtra chief secretary Sanjay Kumar, the department contended that the saltpan land is remit of the Salt Commissioner, who reports to DPIIT. This led to a clash between the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Agadhi (MVA) government – comprising Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party and Congress – and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Central government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-proposes-reservation-change-of-plot-at-kanjurmarg-for-metro-car-shed/story-AmPpCwmMIG03ac8VyBSg7H.html
06-11-2020||Chandigarh||Blaze breaks out in Ludhiana clothing unit||A blaze broke out at a clothing factory in Baba Gajja Jain Colony in Moti Nagar here on Friday. While goods and machinery at Kabir Clothing Company were gutted, major tragedy was averted as the staff was on its lunch break when the fire broke out. Around 30 labourers, who were working at the factory, had gone for lunch at 1pm. Around 1.15pm flames were spotted on the first floor of the building and alarm was raised. It took firefighters two hours to bring the blaze under control. Lack of ventilation and heat within the factory hampered efforts to douse the flames. Firefighters said no fire-safety arrangements had been made by the owners. Owner Amit Puri said, “The fire was caused due to a short circuit. Fortunately, no injury or casualty was reported as the labour was out for lunch. Goods and machinery have perished. The exact loss is yet to be ascertained.”Sub-fire officer (SFO) Maninder Singh said, “Five fire tenders were rushed to the spot. The firefighters were able to restrict the flames to the first floor and no damage was reported on the ground or second floor.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/blaze-breaks-out-in-ludhiana-clothing-unit/story-Gbpf88wMwCz8OIh7lOARvM.html
06-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Metro-3 car shed: Why pick Aarey if experts favoured Kanjurmarg, Congress questions Fadnavis government’s move||In a fresh round of clash between the Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the ruling party has asked why former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis chose Aarey Colony over Kanjurmarg, even after an expert committee was in favour of the latter. The BJP has, however, questioned if it was an attempt of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, comprising Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party and Congress, to open up the saltpan land for its transfer to private parties and developers. Maharashtra Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant said the Fadnavis government had been misleading the people of the city, by saying that Kanjurmarg land was under dispute. He said the government machinery has time and again clarified that the piece of land belongs to the state and there was no dispute pending. He said constructing the car shed at Kanjurmarg was originally the Fadnavis government’s plan, which was being implemented by the MVA government. Sawant has also questioned shifting the proposed shed to Aarey Colony. “The fact that the 102-acre land at Kanjurmarg belongs to the state government was endorsed by Mumbai suburban collector, divisional commissioner of Konkan and then revenue minister Chandrakant Patil as the quasi-judicial authorities between 2014 and 2018. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) had written to the collector in September 2015 for allotment of the land for the car shed. The expert committee appointed by the Fadnavis government had recommended integration of Metro line 3 and 6 by setting up a car shed at Kanjurmarg. A tender for the entry ramp at Kanjurmarg was also floated in 2018 by the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation. The Fadnavis government kept claiming falsely that the shed at Kanjurmarg will lead to an additional burden of ₹5,000 crore,” he said. Sawant said if the MVA government could build an integrated car shed for Metro lines 3, 4, 6 and 14, then why could the previous government not take a decision over the transfer of land for the car shed at Kanjurmarg. BJP leader and former minister Ashish Shelar, however, rubbished the allegations. “Only after our government realised that it was not possible to vacate the stay on the transfer that we decided to go to the car shed at Aarey. The expert committee headed by Manoj Saunik had recommended the alternative of the Aarey land for the car shed. The shifting of the shed to Kanjurmarg will delay the Metro project by more than four more years as two years will be required to level the land and two more for the actual construction. This will also result in escalation of the project cost by ₹4,000 crore,” he said. Shelar alleged the decision of the transfer of land for the government project will also make way for transfer of other plots to private parties. “Such transfer of salt pan land costing at least ₹50,000 crore will prove beneficial to private persons and developers. This is the beginning of a huge land scam,” he said. Shelar has also dared environment minister Aaditya Thackeray for a debate on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-metro-3-car-shed-why-pick-aarey-if-experts-favoured-kanjurmarg-congress-questions-fadnavis-government-s-move/story-mt9vworbwYahw4LkBHDcjP.html
06-11-2020||City||Fire-fighting system at City Centre Mall was non-functional: Mumbai Fire Brigade||Two weeks after a level-five fire was reported in south Mumbai’s City Centre Mall, the Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB) on Friday said that the fire-fighting system at the mall was non-functional, and appropriate action will be taken against those found guilty. However, MFB is yet to confirm the cause of the fire as investigations are ongoing.“During firefighting at City Centre Mall [in Mumbai Central], it was observed that the fire-fighting system was non-functional. In this regard, appropriate action is under process against the licence agency,” MFB said in its response to questions raised by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) standing committee. “After inspection by the compliance team of the BMC, a notice was issued by us in October 2019, and the mall management had submitted its compliance reply in November 2019,” the MFB added.The fire brigade mentioned that while its investigation into the fire incident is ongoing, the BMC is also undertaking a probe to ascertain how many shops inside the mall were illegal, if any.A spokesperson for City Centre Mall did not comment on the MFB’s reply.MFB stated that post the Kamala Mills fire in December 2018, all malls and large establishments in the city are inspected, and compliance notices are sent to them from time to time.On October 22, a level-one fire was reported in a shop on the second floor of the mall at 8.53pm. It soon spread to other floors and the fire brigade declared it a level-five blaze – a rare event in which the chief fire officer is required to be present – at 2.42am. Overall, five fire officers, including a deputy fire officer, were injured while fire-fighting. MFB had used 203 fire tankers for freighting at the spot with more than 250 firefighters.Rais Shaikh, Samajwadi Party corporator and standing committee member, said, “I had complained about the unsafe condition at the mall around one year ago but despite this, the incident took place. I am demanding that a criminal investigation department (CID) inquiry be undertaken into the matter.”Javed Juneja, Congress corporator and a standing committee member, said, “The fire-fighting system didn’t function, and the MFB has said they had inspected the mall last year. If there was an inspection, and compliance was proper, why was the fire-fighting system non-functional?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fire-fighting-system-at-city-centre-mall-was-non-functional-mumbai-fire-brigade/story-EEmbufHmJ1SxNTVZWB7p4H.html
06-11-2020||Election:||Bihar Assembly Election 2020 : Final round of Bihar voting today||78 of the 243 assembly constituencies in Bihar are voting in the third and the last phase of the state elections on Saturday. Here are factors unique to this phase:Anti-incumbency factorThe same party has won the last two elections in a majority of constituencies (40 out of 78) going to the polls in the third phase. Of them, 33 were won by parties that are part of the current state government. This makes the anti-incumbency factor significant in this phase of the election. Click here to read the full coverage of Bihar Assembly 2020 electionsThe Muslim factorMuslims comprise nearly 17% of Bihar’s population. Regions voting in the third phase of the assembly elections are home to nearly half of the state’s Muslim population. Every fourth person in this region is a Muslim, making Muslims significant in terms of electoral politics in this phase. Also read | Bihar Assembly Election 2020: Who will get hold of Muzaffarpur this time?But a large chunk of the Muslim population is concentrated in a few districts. Of the 15 districts going to the polls, Muslims have a majority share in population in only one district, Kishanganj. They comprise 38%-45% in three other districts – Katihar, Araria and Purnea. The Kishanganj district has only four constituencies, while the other three districts comprise 20 constituencies. This makes Muslim vote significant in only a few areas of the region. The Muslim population does affect the performance of the parties, but not to a large degree. This is evident in the performance of the parties in the last two assembly elections. In the 2010 assembly polls, the National Democratic Alliance did well across the region but its seat share was lower in the four districts where Muslims have a share of more than 38%. In the 2015 assembly polls, the Rashtriya Janata Dal-led alliance (which included Congress) did better across the region but had a higher seat share in these Muslim-dominated districts. In case of the Congress, the party’s performance in Muslim districts was significantly better than in other districts. Also read: On Nitish Kumar’s ‘last election’ remark, JD(U) leaders say retirement not on his mindBest turnout recordIn all assembly and Lok Sabha elections held since 2010, the regions going to the polls in the third phase have always had a higher voter turnout. Last year, in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the third-phase region recorded 62% turnout, compared to 56% in the second-phase region and 53% in the first-phase region. But within the third-phase region, the turnout has always been higher in four Muslim-dominated districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-assembly-election-2020-final-round-of-bihar-voting-today/story-C5d7nNbrwJ4vEP4COs0PoI.html
06-11-2020||Mumbai||Fillip for Mumbai’s Metro-4, 4A as ₹4,000-crore loan approved||In a boost to the Mumbai Metro master plan, the German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development (BMZ) along with KfW, a German government-owned development bank, has approved a loan worth ₹4,000 crore for the Mumbai Metro-4 (Wadala-Thane-Kasarvadavli) and 4A (line 4 extension till Gaimukh). The rate of interest for the loan is less than 1%.The loan, said to be the highest amount issued by the company for an Indian project, will be utilised for procuring rolling stock, implementing the integrated ticketing system and multimodal integration for the 35-km line expected to cost a total of ₹15,000 crore. The civil construction cost for the project will be borne by the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA). The agreement between KfW and the Maharashtra government was sealed on Friday at Sahyadri Guest House at Malabar Hill. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray attended the meeting virtually. “It is a big day for us. The travelling experience of Mumbaiites will be enriched once the entire Metro network is complete,” said Thackeray. State urban development minister Eknath Shinde said that the Maharashtra government is committed to completing the project on time. The line is expected to be completed in October 2022. While 20% of the Metro-4 work has been completed, Metro-4A has achieved 6% progress. RA Rajeev, MMRDA commissioner said, “MMRDA has built a reputation over the years by successfully completing infrastructure projects and simultaneously meeting all financial commitments, even during the pandemic.” MMRDA is implementing a Metro network of 337km in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. Currently, 180km of construction is in progress. Kanjurmarg plot belongs to Maha: Shinde Shinde on Friday said that the Kanjumarg plot, where the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has planned to construct the Metro-3 (Colaba-Bandra-Seepz) car shed, belongs to Maharashtra. The Central government has contested the state government’s claim on the plot. Shinde said, “We are not stopping works at the site. The land belongs to the Maharashtra government, and soil testing works have started at the plot.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fillip-for-mumbai-s-metro-4-4a-as-4-000-crore-loan-approved/story-eDlSm2CLen3LJqqH0wskGI.html
06-11-2020||Gurugram||Cops question parents of 26-year-old woman who was shot by suspected robbers||The police on Friday night recorded the statement of the parents of the 26-year-old Pooja Sharma, who was shot in the head by three masked men during a suspected robbery attempt near Golf Course Extension Road on Tuesday night. Sharma, who died on Wednesday while undergoing treatment at a private hospital, was returning home in her car with her fiancé, Sagar Manchanda, when the incident took place, said the police.KK Rao, commissioner of police, said that they have recovered the mobile phone of Sharma and have scanned it to know if anyone was troubling her or if there could be any other motive of her murder. “The phone will be sent to Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) in Madhuban, Karnal, for further scanning. We are also scanning the call details of Sharma and Manchanda to check if anyone was troubling them or had threatened them in the past. We are looking at all angles to ensure the suspects are arrested at the earliest,” he said, adding that Sharma worked with an IT company in Sector 38 in medical claims and insurance department. Sarita Sharma, mother of the victim, said in her statement to the police that her daughter had returned from Chhattisgarh to Gurugram on October 25 and was working from home. “She lived in Dwarka with her uncle and on Tuesday she had to collect her laptop from her company in Sector 48 and got late. She called me and sought my permission to meet Sagar Manchanda, who was her fiancé. They had dinner at a restaurant and went out for a long drive towards the Delhi-Jaipur highway. On their way, Manchanda suggested having a look at his apartment, which is under construction in Sector 65 where they a spent few minutes. The incident took place afterward,” she statedRavinder Sharma, who is the father of the victim and is a businessman by profession, stated that he had received a call from Manchanda, informing them of the incident. They took the first flight to Delhi and visited the hospital but could not talk to his daughter since she had not gained consciousness yet. “Pooja was my elder daughter; I have a son and another daughter who lives with us in Raipur. She was ambitious and came to Gurugram one-and-a-half years ago after she was offered a job in an IT company in Sector 48. She had no personal enmity and never discussed with us if she was facing any issues,” he said.Sharma had been on a ventilator since she was admitted to the hospital on Tuesday night and had not gained consciousness, said the police, adding that her family arrived from Raipur in Chhattisgarh on Wednesday morning.The doctors who treated Sharma told police that she was bleeding from the right side on the back of the head (right occipital region). She was put on ventilator support due to low oxygen and was under the care of a neurosurgery team. “On Thursday, around 2 pm, the patient had a cardiac arrest for which immediately cardiopulmonary resuscitation was started but despite resuscitation, the patient could not be revived and declared dead at 2.33 pm (sic),” stated a document released by the hospital.A board of doctors conducted the post-mortem examination of Sharma on Friday and her body was handed over to the cousin brother of the deceased, the police said, adding that the body was taken to their home town for cremation by flight.Dr Deepak Mathur, forensic expert, Civil Hospital, Gurugram, who conducted the post-mortem examination, said she died due to firearm injury. “A 9mm bullet was hit on the back of the right side of the ear and was stuck in the head. The bullet could not be removed despite the surgery and her right-side brain was damaged,” he said.Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that there were 48 CCTV cameras on the stretch out of which 36 were operational. They have also scanned footage of service lane and crossings but they are yet to identify the suspects. “The 10 teams are investigating and have recovered some leads which could lead to the arrest of the suspects. We are conducting raids at several locations to find some missing dots in the case,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/cops-question-parents-of-26-year-old-woman-who-was-shot-by-suspected-robbers/story-ejerDvV1CwGnIJZ9XK2WHL.html
06-11-2020||Gurugram||With 704 new Covid-19 cases, Gurugram reports highest single-day spike||The district recorded its highest single-day spike of Covid-19 cases with 704 new infections on Friday, indicating a rapid spread of the SARS-CoV-2 virus.The number of daily positives reported in Gurugram has been steadily inching up in recent weeks — a phenomenon that the district officials ascribe to the reopening of outdoor activities, increased mobility, and a rush in markets due to Diwali. In the seven-day period, the district has averaged 536 positive tests per day. Earlier this week, Gurugram was seeing an average of around 379 positive tests per day.Between October 31 and November 6, the weekly positivity rate — the ratio of positive cases to the total number of tests conducted — jumped from 15% to 16.6%. As reported by HT earlier, a positivity rate of more than 15% is moderately high as a higher positivity rate suggests higher chances of transmission among people who have not been tested.The number of total infections also surpassed 33,000, just two days after the tally hit 32,000. On Friday, the total count of infected patients reached 33,255, out of which 28,469 have recovered from the illness and 4,562 are currently undergoing treatment, as per the health bulletin. Nearly 93.4% of patients are currently home isolated and 6.4% of the seriously ill patients are undergoing treatment at various hospitals. Two Covid-19 deaths have also been reported, taking the toll to 224.The sudden spike in Covid-19 cases has prompted the district health department to ramp up testing efforts. For the past two consecutive days, more than 4,000 daily Covid-19 tests have been administered in the district. On Friday, 4,158 samples were collected, including 3,422 Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) tests and 736 rapid antigen tests. Compared to Delhi, Gurugram has a higher proportion of RT-PCR tests as compared to the antigen test.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said that new infections are likely to reach 1,000 in the next few days. “Spike in the number of Covid cases will continue until the end of Diwali. Testing has been increased to check the prevalence of infections. The uptick in Covid-19 cases has been a cause of concern as people are no longer taking the deadly disease seriously.”As reported by HT on Thursday, experts have said that nearly 75% of the urban population is vulnerable to the infection. According to the second round of the serological survey, more than 26% have developed antibodies against the infection.Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head of community medicine department and school of public health, PGIMER-Chandigarh, said, “Daily testing of 4,000 samples is not a small number. However, the increase in the positivity rate is a serious issue now. It shows that the infection is spreading rapidly. It can further increase if the transmission is not controlled. People should avoid any unnecessary movement now. Those living in high-risk areas should get themselves tested. If proper precautions are taken then its impact would be seen in the next 15 days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/with-704-new-covid-19-cases-gurugram-reports-highest-single-day-spike/story-k0Fl4xLGpJgZphEE2L9BSN.html
06-11-2020||Gurugram||Air quality improves slightly as winds transport pollutants eastward||Gurugram’s air on Friday remained in the ‘very poor’ category, with the AQI (air quality index) recorded at 392, as per the Central Pollution Control Board’s daily bulletin. This was a slight improvement from the previous day’s AQI of 443, in ’severe’ category — the first instance of the air turning toxic this winter season. Experts attributed Friday’s improved AQI to prevailing north-westerly winds, which are transporting Gurugram’s pollution load eastward, into Delhi and beyond towards Uttar Pradesh. As a result, Gurugram was the only major NCR city on Friday to have ‘very poor’ air, while Delhi, Noida, Ghaziabad, Greater Noida and even Faridabad continued to have ‘severe’ air quality, recording AQIs above 400. A marginal improvement is expected across these cities in the next 24 hours, due to increased wind speed across Delhi-NCR, a forecast by CPCB’s central control room for air quality management showed. “With winds originating from the north and west of Delhi and blowing east, some of the pollutants which accumulated in and around Gurugram on Thursday dispersed> The wind speed which increased and touched around 12kmph on Friday afternoon also helped,” said Sachin Panwar, a city-based air quality scientist, who said that Gurugram’s air quality may remain in the upper end of the ‘very poor’ category on Saturday. “It can also easily slip back into a severe situation if there is a drop in temperature,” Panwar added. However, officials and experts both said that any further improvement in the region’s air quality is unlikely in the short term, with no major weather systems — in the form of Western Disturbances — expected for at least two weeks. “With the monsoon having departed, anti-cyclonic winds are circulating over north India, creating a high-pressure zone. High pressure zones tend to see stagnant weather and little activity in terms of rain or wind, so the current situation is likely to persist throughout November, as per long-range forecasts,” said Navdeep Dahiya, a Rohtak-based meteorologist. Dr Sumita Sharma, director of the climate change and earth sciences division at TERI, agreed, adding, “This forecast is not good news. Without any major weather activity, we should ready ourselves for a bad air Diwali. The past few days have also recorded an increase in the count of farm fires west of Delhi, smoke from which is slowly moving eastward. Together, these sources will further aggravate the present situation.” Of four official monitors in Gurugram, just one continued to record severe quality air even on Friday — the continuous ambient air quality monitoring stations (CAAQMS) in Sector 51. From an AQI of 458 on Thursday, air quality in the vicinity of this monitor (which lies just off the southern peripheral road, near Samaspur village) jumpe to 459 on Friday evening, Meanwhile, the city’s three other monitoring stations all recorded improvements in both overall AQI and particulate matter pollution on Friday.Officials attributed this to a high prevalence of local emissions sources in and around Sector 51. “Due to availability of open spaces, dumping of waste and open fires are an issue there. There is also a larger presence of road dust in that area. We will try to mitigate these by increasing patrolling, water sprinkling and dust sweeping in the region,” said Kuldeep Singh, regional officer, HSPCB, Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/air-quality-improves-slightly-as-winds-transport-pollutants-eastward/story-ydgCo5BLYDL8HAuU6lY0rN.html
06-11-2020||Gurugram||GMDA to tie-up with DLF to build five pedestrian bridges on Golf Course Road||Almost four years after Golf Course Road (GCR) was redesigned to facilitate smooth movement of traffic, Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) and DLF are together planning to construct five pedestrian bridges on a 5.5km-long stretch of the road, said officials on Friday.In 2017, the 10km stretch between Ghata T-point and Shankar Chowk — including the seven-kilometre-long GCR — was redesigned to make it a signal-free, along with seven underpasses. Soon after its opening, the stretch came under criticism from road safety experts on the lack of pedestrian amenities and high-speed collisions. Apart from staircases and escalators of the four Rapid Metro stations on the stretch, there is no other pedestrian amenity to cross from one side of the GCR to the other. Despite the entire median being fenced, hundreds of pedestrians and cyclists either jump over the fencing or use the gaps between them to cross the thoroughfare against high-speed traffic daily. The five spots for the construction of pedestrian bridges on the 5.5km stretch between Bristol Chowk and AIT Chowk, along Raghvendra Marg on GCR are as follows: Bristol Chowk, MPD Tower, Paras Downtown, Vipul Belmonte and Time Tower. GMDA has now put up the proposal on its official website for public feedback. Officials said that as per the design plans, the pedestrian bridges have been planned in such a manner that it would ensure that pedestrians have a facility to cross GCR after a distance of every 400 metres.JS Sindhu, engineer, traffic, GMDA, said that the plan is to build pedestrian bridges with escalators to ensure that people can cross the road with ease. “The bridges will help people cross the road safely. These are being built at locations, which have large number of pedestrians crossing the road. The commuters will have the option to take the help of a pedestrian bridge within 350 to 400 metres on either side,” Sindhu said, adding that a joint team of officials from different agencies had conducted an inspection of the sites and the proposal has also been uploaded on GMDA website for public feedback. On Wednesday, a joint team of GMDA, Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP), Gurugram Police, and Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) also visited each of the five spots to analyse if the existing project designs are in sync with the requirements on-ground and to take a stock of utilities that may come in the way of the project. The team members will now give their respective feedbacks to DLF for implementation.Officials of DLF, the caretaker of GCR, said that barring Bristol Chowk, where the length of the bridge is proposed to be 450 metres, all the remaining bridges would be 350 metres in length, with elevators on each ends. Each pedestrian bridge is expected to cost around ₹3.5 crore, and the total project cost is expected to be around ₹15 crore, with DLF proposing the construction of the bridges as part of their corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds. DLF officials further said that four of the five bridges would be constructed by DLF while the one at Bristol Chowk would be constructed by GMDA. However, the construction costs would be borne by DLF.“Our teams carried out a survey of Raghvendra Marg, based on which we decided to construct pedestrian bridges on all black spots along the stretch. We have submitted a proposal to GMDA, and they are currently seeking no -objection certificates (NOCs) from concerned public departments regarding the utilities coming in the way of the project. Once DLF gets approval from GMDA, construction will commence immediately and the project will be completed in six to seven months,” said Gayatri Paul, director, programmes, DLF foundation.After finding inadequate pedestrian amenities on GCR, the district administration’s road safety committee had recommended the implementation of pedestrian-friendly measures at eight key crossings on the GCR in July last year. As per a Haryana Vision Zero (HVZ) report, pedestrians and cyclists account for 45% of all road fatalities on GCR. Between 2017 and 2019, there have been 40 road fatalities recorded on GCR of which, 14 were pedestrians, four cyclists, two four-wheeler users, 17 two-wheeler users, and three three-wheeler users.“A high volume of cyclists use GCR every day. Authorities, therefore, need to ensure that the five proposed bridges are designed in such a manner that cyclists too can avail them. Similar to the pedestrian bridges in Delhi, the proposed bridges here should be designed with slopes instead of a staircase as it will not only allow cyclists to use the infrastructure but also be wheelchair-friendly,” said Sarika Panda Bhatt, program coordinator, Haryana Vision Zero (HVZ).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gmda-to-tie-up-with-dlf-to-build-five-pedestrian-bridges-on-golf-course-road/story-mBRCd9QkG32p5CyKpa4eYL.html
06-11-2020||Gurugram||1.4% of Covid-19 recovered patients have donated plasma since July: Data||Only about 1.4% people who recovered from Covid-19 in the district have come forward for plasma donation, as per the health department data. Though there are more than 28,000 recovered patients who have developed antibodies against the infection, only about 400 of them approached the Rotary Blood Bank in Sector 10, where the plasma donation started on July 27. Out of the 400, only 245 were found fit to donate plasma for critically ill Covid-19 patients. Government officials, however, said that there has been an improvement in the response towards the donation. According to them, at least 21 recovered patients have donated plasma twice. In plasma therapy, blood is taken from a Covid-19 recovered person who has developed antibodies against the SARS-CoV-2 virus. Through centrifugation, the liquid part of the blood, called plasma, is separated. It contains antibodies, which are transfused in the coronavirus-infected person, boosting the immune system to fight the deadly infection.However, not all patients can donate plasma. The concentration of the antibodies is checked in the plasma before it is transfused. For this, the blood taken from the recovered patients is diluted repeatedly. The highly diluted samples, which turn to be positive, are the ones with high antibody levels. Through 245 donors, the blood bank has till now collected 488 units of plasma, out of which 476 units have been utilised by critically ill patients and remaining 12 units are available with the bank. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “One unit of plasma collected from single donors can be given to two patients. People between 18 years and 60 years are eligible to donate plasma. Within 14 days after the recovery, plasma can be donated.” One unit of plasma bag costs ₹8,500, while it is free for BPL card holders and pregnant women in the district. Motivating recovered patients to come forward, the district administration, along with the blood bank, is giving medals, appreciation certificates and shield trophies to donors. A card is also provided by the blood bank through which donors, if required, can take blood units from the bank for a year. Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, said, “There is an increased awareness in masses and at least 21 recovered patients have come forward twice for plasma donation. Earlier, there were misconceptions related to plasma donation, which restricted people. Now, through awareness people have strated to come out for help.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/1-4-of-covid-19-recovered-patients-have-donated-plasma-since-july-data/story-GRoReH5gWqWYWZ3r6DkfhL.html
06-11-2020||Mumbai||Kangana Ranaut, sister seek time till November 15 to appear before Mumbai Police||Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut and her sister Rangoli Chandel have sought time till November 15 to appear before the Mumbai Police in connection with the sedition case registered at Bandra police station.Rizwan Siddiqui, Ranaut and Chandel’s advocate, said, “After receiving the second notice, I have written to Mumbai Police stating that my clients will not be attending the police station on November 9 and 10 because of the wedding preparations and ongoing functions concerning their younger brother at their hometown.” Ranaut and Chandel were summoned for the second time to record their statements at Bandra police station on November 9 and 10, respectively, in a case registered against them for sedition and allegedly promoting enmity between different communities. The police filed a first information report (FIR) on October 17 after Bandra metropolitan magistrate’s court issued an order for the same. Munawar Ali aka Sahil, casting director, in his complaint had said that Ranaut’s actions “created a bad image of Bollywood in the minds of people and even created a communal divide and rift between people of two communities”. His complaint added that Ranaut has been “maliciously bringing religion in all her tweets”. Ali further alleged that Chandel, who works as Ranaut’s manager, has also tweeted objectionable messages intended to create a communal rift.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kangana-ranaut-sister-seek-time-till-november-15-to-appear-before-mumbai-police/story-kaXvIWdpHL8BkDxHGoRSrI.html
06-11-2020||Mumbai||Media trial in Sushant Singh Rajput death case: Bombay HC concludes hearing, reserves judgment||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday concluded hearing arguments in the public interest litigations (PIL) filed by eight former police officers from Maharashtra, as well as others, seeking restraining orders against the media trial in the Sushant Singh Rajput death case. In its concluding arguments the Union of India, while replying to the query by the court on whether reporting on the ongoing investigation in sensitive criminal matters amounted to contempt, said that it did not. The Centre, however, added that the high court was empowered to pass restraining orders on media reporting as and when required. The Centre through additional solicitor-general Anil Singh further reiterated the stand of the government and the self-regulating authorities that the existing mechanism was sufficient to keep a check on the functioning of news channels, hence there was no need for additional legislation, regulations or guidelines.After hearing all parties including self-regulatory authorities such as News Broadcasters Association (NBA) and News Broadcasting Standards Authority (NBSA), directing all of them to file their written submissions on the petitions, the court said that the arguments were concluded and reserved its judgment, which would be passed in due course. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice GS Kulkarni, while hearing the rejoinder by the Centre to the submissions made by the news channels and self-regulating authorities, clarified that it would address the specific query of the court as to when contempt was applicable in sensitive criminal investigations. Singh submitted that while the counsel for the police officers Aspi Chinoy had submitted that the media trial, even during the stage of police investigation would amount to interference in justice, and provisions of contempt were attracted, it was not the case. Singh justified the Centre’s stand by referring to Supreme Court judgments which stated that though criminal proceedings become imminent after the arrest takes place, the provision of contempt would be applicable only after that. He, however, added that contempt would be applicable even if a charge sheet is not filed after the arrest. While countering the allegations made by the petitioners, senior counsel Arvind Datar for NBA and NBSA submitted that disciplinary action was taken against errant channels regularly, hence the demand of the petitioners and NGO’s to have additional guidelines was not necessary. He said that though the authorities were independent bodies they adjudicated complaints based on the programme code stipulated in the Cable TV Regulation Act and was answerable to the ministry of information and broadcasting. Datar added that NBSA would be issuing an advisory to all member channels to strictly adhere to the programme code after FIR’s were registered in sensitive criminal matters.After hearing all sides, the bench held that arguments were concluded and directed the parties to file their written submissions and reserved its judgement, which will be passed in a few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/media-trial-in-sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-bombay-hc-concludes-hearing-reserves-judgment/story-wGz9212WQpqNMwRWNr0fDL.html
06-11-2020||Mumbai||Nearly 30% Covid patients in Navi Mumbai recovered at home||Nearly 30 per cent of the total Covid cases in Navi Mumbai never required hospitalisation. They have recovered through home isolation and treatment over a phone call from the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) doctors.As per the figures of November 3, out of the 48,311 Covid positive cases, 14,346 (29.69 per cent) have recovered at home. Of these home-isolated patients, 6,226 were females, 8,117 males and one transgender.Dr Ajay Gadade, health officer, NMMC, said, “When a person is found positive, he is given the option to get admitted or home isolate. Home isolation is allowed only if he has mild symptoms and has a room at home for himself with a separate bathroom that would be accessed only by him. If he falls under those two criteria, we let the patient get home isolated and provide the medicines.“Regular calls are made from our call centre to check on the patient and if necessary, a doctor on call is also made available. We ask the patient to regularly monitor the SPO2 level. Those who don’t have the pulse oximeter, we ask them to buy as keeping a tab of oxygen levels is very important in Covid positive patients.”A total of 4.06 lakh calls have been made by the call centre till now. Of these, 1.64 lakh were made to the home-isolated patients, 1.26 lakh to co-morbid patients and 1.15 lakh for post-Covid care.Overall, 8.54 lakh minutes were spent over calls, of which 3.45 lakh were spent with home-isolated patients, 2.65 lakh with co-morbid patients and 2.42 lakh with post-Covid patients. Of the total 4.06 lakh calls made, 4,759 calls were transferred to doctors for further guidance. Out of these, 2,155 were of the home-isolated patients, 644 of co morbid patients and 1,960 of post-Covid patients.“The call centre calls twice a day to the patients who are home isolated. Every call is recorded. If the patient seems to have developed any complications, further necessary step is taken,” assistant municipal commissioner Sanjay Kakade said.Ajay Moghe, a 45-year-old resident of Nerul, a mariner and a national badminton player, recently found himself Covid positive and chose to be home isolated at his residence in Sector 6, Nerul.Moghe, a health conscious person, plays badminton daily at least for two hours and was shocked to test positive. He chose to be home isolated.“I received calls from the NMMC checking on my health updates. I have always been a person who took care of the vitamin supplements, but I was still infected. It was only because of the healthy lifestyle and proper precautions I took after finding myself positive that I could recover without passing on the virus to any of my family members,” Moghe said.He isolated himself the day he felt he cannot play his favourite sport for two hours and felt tired. The test was done much later, but till then he kept himself isolated from his family and friends.“The day we got him isolated, I purchased disposable spoons, plates and glasses. While he stayed in a room, I stayed with my mother-in-law in her room and kids were in their room. After every meal, he would sanitise the plates he used and put in the garbage bag. Before keeping out the garbage bag for disposal, the bag was sanitised again. Healthy food, timely medicines, good amount of rest and isolation helped him recover. Home isolation treatment is possible and it’s also possible to not pass on the virus to family members by acting at the right time,” his wife Mugdha said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/nearly-30-covid-patients-in-navi-mumbai-recovered-at-home/story-sm3JMJtwmLs3P9WWQYULON.html
06-11-2020||Mumbai||Dip in number of migrants testing positive for Covid at Thane railway station||The number of migrants testing positive at Thane railway station has reduced drastically in the last one month. It has fallen from around 250 positive cases daily in September to less than 10 cases in the last two weeks.This has also helped in improving the positivity rate within the city. The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) had set up three testing counters at Thane railway station on the west side since the last one-and-a-half months, while two more were set up at east side.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, TMC, said, “Due to the unlock practice, migrant labourers who had shifted to their hometown were returning to the city in September in large number. September saw more than 15,000 arrive at the railway station daily whereas now there are only around 2,000 arriving on a daily basis. This is also one of the reasons for decrease in the number of positive cases at the railway station. After the festive season, there could be more number of migrants visiting and we are prepared with two more counters at Thane east side of the railway station.”The health department claimed that tenacious testing of each and every migrant helped break the chain.Dr Raju Murudkar, medical health officer, TMC, said, “Initially, when we started testing, there were around 800 migrants at the railway station on an average and among these, 40-70 would test positive on a regular basis. However, the number increased around mid-September to approximately 250 migrants testing positive from among the 15,000 who used to arrive at the railway station. Each and every long distance passenger was tested. We ensured that those with symptoms were isolated and those tested positive were admitted to our Covid care centre immediately. This helped break the chain and bring the situation under control.”Dhananjay Singh, founder, Rudra Pratishthan, an organisation that works for the welfare of the north Indian community in Thane said that merely 40 per cent of the migrants have returned so far.He added, “We were expecting an influx of labourers after the Navratri festival. Most probably this will happen after Diwali now.”Each person takes around four minutes to take swab samples and provide basic details. Shashikumar Nair, chairman of Yatra Samiti, Thane, said, “There were many passengers visiting earlier, making it difficult to follow social distancing and leading to chaos at the railway station earlier. However, there are few arriving at the station now and this has led to better crowd management. These counters should continue even after the festive season, this will help keep the cases in control.”Testing at night also The antigen testing counter at Thane station is functional throughout the night to increase testing in the city, as per the Thane civic commissioner Dr Vipin Sharma’s guidelines. On Thursday night, first day since the directives, 832 commuters were tested. With increase in the number of long distance trains, most trains arrived at the station at night. Thus, the decision to set up round the clock testing counter was taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/dip-in-number-of-migrants-testing-positive-for-covid-at-thane-railway-station/story-O5od0SJ2eFP61tMt0P4JdL.html
06-11-2020||City||Four-year-old boy slips off fourteenth floor flat in Raj Nagar Extension, dies||Ghaziabad: A four-year-old boy died after he allegedly slipped off from his fourteenth floor flat at a high-rise in the Raj Nagar Extension area of Ghaziabad on Friday night. The police said that the childwas alone in the house when the incident took place. The boy, Tejas, who goes by single name, stayed with his parents in their fourteenth floor flat. The police said that the boy’s father, Navneet Charan, had gone out to pick his wife at around 6.30pm on Friday. “The child was alone at home. It seems that he took a stool to the balcony and probably was standing on it when he toppled over from the fourteenth floor flat of the society. He was rushed to a hospital, but declared dead. His mother is a healthcare employee, while his father works from home during these days,” said Awaneesh Kumar, circle officer, City 2. According to the police, the father had turned the television on for the child and also locked the flat from outside while he went out to pick his wife. “Later, the child switched off the television and somehow opened the sliding door leading to the balcony, and thereafter the incident took place. The family has so far not given any complaint into the incident,” CO added. The incident took place under the jurisdiction of Sihani Gate police station area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-year-old-boy-slips-off-fourteenth-floor-flat-in-raj-nagar-extension-dies/story-adayJcFTlLoDvlTBcPLaIK.html
06-11-2020||City||TATA Steel PGTI Players Championship 2020 Day 3: Chandigarh’s Akshay stays atop leader board, Karandeep continues in second spot||Chandigarh golfer Akshay Sharma emerged as the outright favourite for the title after extending his lead to five shots in round three of the TATA Steel PGTI Players Championship 2020 presented by Panchkula Golf Club. Akshay, the overnight leader by three shots, played a five-under-67 on Friday. His three-day tally was 19-under-197 (64-66-67).Another Chandigarh golfer Karandeep Kochhar, who played a round of three-under-69, was placed second with a tally of 14-under-202.Bengaluru’s Chikkarangappa (72) was placed third at 11-under-205 while Kolkata’s Viraj Madappa fired the day’s best score of 64 to rise 21 spots to the fourth position at nine-under-207.Other Chandigarh golfers in the top-10 were Aadil Bedi (71) in tied sixth at seven-under-209, Yuvraj Singh Sandhu (68) in tied eighth at six-under-210 and Amrit Lal (72) in tied 10th at five-under-211.Akshay, who had gone bogey-free in the first two rounds, made his first error of the tournament when he dropped a double-bogey on the second after an inaccurate bunker shot. He immediately bounced back with birdies on the third, fifth, sixth, and seventh. He made a good up and down from the bunker on the sixth and excellent recovery from the trees on the seventh.“It was another solid round for me barring one error early on. My hitting was as good as the last two rounds but I didn’t hit it that close to the holes today. My placement wasn’t as accurate if one compares to the previous two days. “I made a great recovery from the trees on the seventh where I chipped out and followed that up with an exceptional 3-wood third shot which landed five feet from the pin. I made some long conversions as the greens at Panchkula are playing very soft and true so it’s easier to find the hole if you’re on the right line,” says Akshay. “I have a comfortable lead so I will look to play steady and let the others do all the attacking,” added the 30-year-old golfer.Karandeep Kochhar (68-65-69), who trailed the leader by three at the start of the day, kept pace with Akshay for most of the day collecting five birdies on the first 13 holes. Kochhar drove the green on the par-4 sixth to make birdie there and also set up four feet birdie conversions on the fifth and eighth.Karandeep then suffered a couple of setbacks towards the end dropping bogeys on the 15th and 17th. He found the hazard on the 15th and got unlucky on the 17th where his ball bounced on the edge of the green, hit a tree, and was deflected about 40 yards away.Kochhar said, “I had only one bad hole today, the 15th, otherwise it was a good round. I just got a little unlucky on the 17th. A five-shot deficit is not a very big one at Panchkula but the key for me would be playing well on the first four holes and making inroads on that stretch because the following holes do provide scoring opportunities.” Chikkarangappa (66-67-72) slipped from overnight tied second to third place as a result of his 72 that included three birdies, a bogey, and a double-bogey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tata-steel-pgti-players-championship-2020-day-3-chandigarh-s-akshay-stays-atop-leader-board-karandeep-continues-in-second-spot/story-sIcNtHlZlciRnwWcH4mVKI.html
06-11-2020||City||Noida: 22 residential bodies achieve 100% waste segregation||NOIDA: At least 22 residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) and apartment owners’ associations (AOAs) have achieved 100% waste segregation at their respective housing complexes in the city, said officials of the Noida authority. “So far, 22 resident associations have achieved 100% waste segregation. We appreciate that these AOAs or RWAs are doing their bit. We hope more and more associations will do the same,” said Ritu Maheshawri, chief executive officer, Noida authority. The authority had on July 1 last year started its waste segregation drive. Under the drive, each household has to segregate the waste in three separate dustbins -- one for plastic, another for dry waste and third for wet waste --and hands it over to the agency hired by the authority for collection, transportation and disposal. Noida has 165 sectors and 65 villages, where 900 metric tonnes of waste is produced daily. The Noida authority started collecting waste from door-to-door with the help of 250 vehicles and 21 compact machines that crushes the waste to transport it easily since 2018. According to the officials, the residential bodies in sectors 11, 14, 15A, 27, 30, 56, 100, 122, eight housing complexes in sector 62, sector 70 (B Block), Express View apartment in sector 105, Arun Vihar in sector 37, Ram Vihar apartment in sector 30 and two housing complexes in sector 35 have achieved 100% waste segregation, among others. The authority has decided to step up efforts to achieve the 100% waste segregation in remaining all housing complexes. “The waste segregation is being done in almost all housing complexes. But we need to make sure it happens in all households. We have not fixed any deadline to achieve the 100% waste segregation. But we want to do it as soon as possible. And to achieve this target, we are encouraging AOAs and RWAs to encourage residents to start segregating,” said SC Mishra, senior project engineer of the authority heading the horticulture department. The authority has also decided to honour those AOAs and RWAs, which will help in this drive. Dharmendra Sharma, general secretary of sector 34 RWA, said, “We have achieved 100% waste segregation in our complex. And we are encouraging all complexes to join the drive and help Noida become a cleaner and better city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-22-residential-bodies-achieve-100-waste-segregation/story-CT8LMLzzOHVoElN6RL0USP.html
06-11-2020||Noida||BCA student, his friend’s father held for Greater Noida West double murder||A 19-year-old department store employee and his female friend’s father were arrested Friday for the double murder of the department store owner and his wife in Greater Noida West Tuesday night. Police said the main accused, Aman Hayat Khan, a BCA first-year student, was in a relationship with a 16-year-old girl. The girl’s father allegedly blackmailed Khan and demanded money to start a business, else he would file a complaint against Khan for being in a relationship with a minor. The man’s name is being withheld to protect the identity of the girl.Under pressure from the blackmailing, Khan murdered his 55-year-old employer Vinay Kumar Gupta and his wife Neha Gupta, 50, and stole ₹1 lakh from their flat, police said. Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said the Guptas were found murdered in their ninth floor three-bedroom apartment in Cherry County on Wednesday morning by their son Kush Gupta when he went to visit them. “Vinay ran a department store – Price Smart -- in the commercial complex of Cherry County society. There were 22 staff members at the store and only Khan was missing since the murder. We checked the CCTV footage from the premises and found him entering the society at 12.15am through a small gate which connects the commercial complex with the residential side. He exited the society within 15 minutes after visiting Vinay’s flat,” he said. “The suspect was carrying Vinay’s cash bag when he exited the flat. He then went into the department store and washed his hands and face before abandoning his bloodstained shoes -- these were later identified as Khan’s by the other staff members,” Chander said. “We put his phone on electronic surveillance and found that he had called the girl’s father, about half an hour after the murders. We launched a search and arrested the girl’s father Friday,” he said.Ankur Aggarwal, additional DCP, Noida Central, said the girl’s father hailed from Mohali in Punjab and was living with his family in Greater Noida West. “He revealed that Khan was in a relationship with his 16-year-old daughter. He had booked an Oyo Room in Noida’s Sector 62 and hid Khan after the crime,” Aggarwal said. A police team Friday arrested Khan when came to meet the girl’s father near Galaxy Vega roundabout. Khan told police that the father was blackmailing him for money. “He had proposed to run a business in partnership with me. He asked me to rob my employer and arrange the money,” Khan reportedly told the police. Khan hails from Motihari district in Bihar and had completed his class 10 with 95% marks and class 12 with 50% marks. His father used to work in Dubai but lost his job six months ago. Khan had by then shifted from Bihar to Greater Noida West and started living with a friend. Chander said when Khan’s father lost his job, he stopped sending money to Khan. “The suspect nearly dropped out of his BCA programme for want of money. Four months ago, he joined Vinay’s department store and began working in the apparels section,” he said. Chander said on the night of the murder, Khan reached Vinay’s flat and rang the bell. “ Vinay opened the door and Khan told Neha that he was hungry and wanted food. Neha served him dinner and he started demanding money from her. When she refused, he lifted a candle stand and hit on the head. When Vinay rushed to help Neha, he was also attacked with the candle stand,” Chander said. Chander said Khan also stabbed them with a knife that he had purchased from the department store two days ago. The suspect then stole Vinay’s cash bag containing ₹1 lakh and a cheque book, and fled the spot. Police said Khan bought a mobile phone for ₹15,000 and the reaming cash, about ₹72,000, apart from the chequebook, the new phone, bloodstained clothes and the knife were recovered from Khan’s possession. Gautam Budh Nagar commissionerate has rewarded ₹1 lakh to the police team for solving the double murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/bca-student-his-friend-s-father-held-for-greater-noida-west-double-murder/story-qJpnzR4y3FOhaj5R5ik41K.html
06-11-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad: Flights for third route between Hindon-Kalaburagi start Nov 18||Ghaziabad: Starting November 18, one new route from Hindon to Kalaburagi in Karnataka will become operational from the civil terminal near the Hindon airbase in Ghaziabad under the ‘Ude Desh ka Aam Nagarik’ (UDAN) scheme. At present, two routes -- Hindon-Pithoragarh and Hindon-Hubli -- are operational at the civil terminal. The flights to Kalaburagi will be run by Star Air, and officials of the airline said that they have already opened the bookings. The airline also operates flights between Hindon-Hubli with a 50-seater aircraft. “The flights to Kalaburagi will start from November 18, and will be operational three days a week -- Tuesday, Wednesday and Saturday with starting fare at ₹3,799. The flights for the other route of Hindon-Hubli are already scheduled for four days in a week (Monday, Thursday, Friday and Sunday). For the Hindon-Hubli route, we already have about 75% occupancy. For both the routes, we will be using a 50-seater aircraft,” said a spokesperson from Star Air. The flights from the civil terminal at Hindon were suspended during the lockdown. The flight services resumed for a day on May 25. Thereafter, certain issues led to suspension of flights till August 15, officials said. In its order of May 24, the ministry of civil aviation had issued directions for operation of Regional Connectivity Services under the UDAN scheme and issued several guidelines. One of the criteria stated that all routes up to 500km were permitted to resume operations. Notably, the Hindon-Hubli route has an air distance of about 1,282km. “The issues got resolved in due course of time and our flights resumed from August 16 and continuing. The response for both the routes is encouraging,” the spokesperson of Star Air added. However, the other route to Pithoragarh is yet to be made operational ever since the lockdown. The officials of Airport Authority of India at the civil terminal said that they are waiting for response from the airline concerned. “We are yet to get any response from the airline which operates Hindon-Pithoragarh route. They had operated their last flight in March, and thereafter there is no information from their side. However, the other airline (Star Air) will be initiating the Hindon-Kalaburagi flights from November 18,” said Shobha Bhardwaj, director of the civil terminal. The Hindon-Pithoragarh route is operated by Air Heritage. Its CEO Rohit Mathur did not respond to calls for his comments over the issue. The first flight from the civil terminal was made operational between Hindon-Pithoragarh on October 11 last year, and after almost a month the second route between Hindon-Hubli got initiated on November 6. The civil terminal at Ghaziabad is proposed to operate flights to eight routes of Nasik, Pithoragarh, Kannur, Hubli, Faizabad, Shimla, Jamnagar and Kalaburagi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-flights-for-third-route-between-hindon-kalaburagi-start-nov-18/story-YOmIIKNZ1MF5bKXlMr8ekK.html
06-11-2020||City||Sisodia alleges fraud in 5 state-funded colleges||New Delhi: Two days after the Delhi High Court directed the Aam Aadmi Party government to release funds to pay salaries to teachers and staff of four Delhi-government funded colleges, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Friday said the special audit sanctioned by the government revealed financial irregularities in these colleges indicating a “big fraud” and “ghost appointments”.The deputy chief minister, who holds the education portfolio, also said they were exploring legal options. “We have received the special audit report of five colleges that show financial irregularities in these colleges led to staff not being paid salaries,” he said.According to the government, the audit report revealed that over ₹124 crore across five colleges were utilised without government approval. “The audit report also showed that these colleges created posts without getting approval from the government as the rules mandate. When the auditors asked for attendance register of these appointees, the colleges could not provide one indicating that there may be ‘ghost employees’,” Sisodia alleged on Friday. Laptops, equipment, and cars were brought without government approval, he added.“These colleges have money and yet teaching and non-teaching staff are not being paid. The government will work towards ending the practice of violating the rules of grant,” said Sisodia, explaining that the government is only required to cover the “net deficit” in grants. This essentially means that the government would cover the difference of amount between all revenue sources in the colleges and total expenditure.DU teachers have been protesting against the delay of disbursal of grants in the 12 government-funded colleges, which they said is the main cause behind pending salaries of teaching and non-teaching staff for months. The government attributed this delay in releasing funds to the alleged financial irregularities in these colleges.In September, the government released funds for six of these 12 colleges. While the initial plea in the high court included all 12 Delhi government-funded colleges, the court deleted the names of eight from the memo of parties as two colleges had paid salaries till August and no employee from the remaining six had approached court. The remaining four are: Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar College, Bhagini Nivedita College, Aditi Mahavidyalaya Women’s College and Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies. On Friday, Sisodia said the audit report of two among these four colleges indicated financial irregularities.Colleges which spent funds without any approval in the past three years are — Deen Dayal Upadhyaya College (₹49.88 crore), Keshav Mahavidyalaya (₹29.84 crore), Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies (₹16.52 crore), Bhagini Nivedita College (₹17.23 crore), and Maharishi Valmiki College (₹10.64 crore). Aditi Mahavidyalaya and Laxmibai College refused to share their books with the government, Sisodia said. While Aditi Mahavidyalaya principal Mamta Sharma did not respond to requests for a comment, officials from the college, requesting anonymity, said that records were shown to special auditors. “However, the audit could not be completed as non-teaching staff could not come to college since they don’t have money to do so,” the official added. Laxmibai College principal Pratyush Vatsala was not available for a comment. He also said that colleges collected money from fee and other sources as fixed deposits and hence have surplus funds – Deen Dayal Upadhyaya College (₹ 22.44 crore), Keshav Mahavidyalaya (₹9.38 crore), Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies (₹31.58 crore), Bhagini Nivedita College (₹2.38 crore), and Maharishi Valmiki College (₹30 lakh).Colleges, however, maintain that funds from the Students Society Fund cannot be used for salary purposes. Hem Chand Jain, principal of DDU College, said, “We cannot comment unless we see the audit report and the FD’s in question are student society funds. High court orders state that we can’t spend this for salary purposes. As far as attendance is concerned, there are no provisions to record teachers’ attendance as per DU norms.”Poonam Verma, principal of Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies, said, “The central government’s CAG audit has taken place till 2018-19 and we have shown highest integrity. We have no knowledge where the current figure (of Rs 16.52 crore) is coming from. There is some misinformation which needs to be clarified because such a high office cannot be speaking without any basis. There is a communication gap.”DU Dean of Colleges Balaram Pani said levying these allegations is an unfortunate incident on academics who run these colleges. “There has not been any misappropriation of funds as per the information collected by the university administration from these principals,” he said.While principal of Bhagini Nivedita College did not respond to requests for a comment, principals of Keshav Mahavidyalaya college and Maharishi Valmiki college could not be reached for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sisodia-alleges-fraud-in-5-state-funded-colleges/story-4gBo042sncteAJkHkfGUXO.html
06-11-2020||Noida||Noida, Ghaziabad suffer year’s highest PM10 and PM2.5 levels during Nov 4 to 6||Ghaziabad: Noida, Ghaziabad and Greater Noida have fared badly in terms of PM10 and PM2.5 levels as the two primary pollutants were recorded at their highest levels at most of the monitoring stations in the three cities during the past three days, from November 4 to 6. According to data of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the PM10 levels at 10 monitoring stations in the three cities spiked up to seven times the standard limits while the PM2.5 levels peaked to up to almost eight times the permissible limits during the period when the air pollution levels started deteriorating. Officials of the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) have indicated that the situation is more or less likely to remain same till Diwali. “The prevailing conditions are likely to remain more or less same till Diwali. There will be low wind speeds in range of 8-10 km per hour and the wind direction is likely to change to easterly around November 10-11. Thereafter, one-two days period will see less wind speed and by this time Diwali will arrive,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of regional weather forecasting centre, IMD. Starting November 4, Noida, Ghaziabad and Greater Noida have witnessed rising pollution levels with thick pollution cover engulfing the three cities. CPCB’s data assessed by HT indicates that monitoring station of Loni in Ghaziabad recorded highest PM10 and PM2.5 levels in the city with figures of 732.30 micrograms per cubic metre (ug/m3) and 456.59 ug/m3, respectively, during the period November 4 to 5, which is the highest this year so far. During the same period, Noida’s Sector 125 monitoring station also recorded highest PM10 and PM2.5 levels at 721.37ug/m3 and 468.70 ug/m3, respectively. This is also the highest spike in the current year for any of the four stations in Noida city. For Greater Noida, the highest PM10 levels of the current year were also recorded during the period November 4 to November 5 when the levels were at 612.34 ug/m3 at Knowledge Park V monitoring station. Greater Noida’s highest PM2.5 level of the current year was also recorded at 338.73 ug/m3 during the same period. The standard limits for PM10 is 100 ug/m3 while for PM2.5 is 60 ug/m3. “It is likely that the PM10 and PM2.5 levels will further spike during the days before Diwali festival and also during post-Diwali days. Bursting of crackers will have major impact on pollution levels at that time. So, authorities have to take up stringent measures to curb pollution levels at least at local level,” said Akash Vashishtha, a Ghaziabad-based environmentalist. “Further, in case the authorities are contemplating any ban on firecrackers, they should be banned at least up to whole of January from November and not just during days of Diwali,” he added. The officials of the UP pollution control board (UPPCB) said that they have intensified pollution abatement measures at local level. “We have intensified water sprinkling as well as increased vigilance at construction sites, besides continuing with regular measures in order to curb PM10 and PM2.5 levels as they have been high during the current peak,” said Praveen Kumar, regional officer of the UPPCB at Noida. The Ghaziabad officials from the UPPCB said that conditions have largely worsened due to external factors. “The high levels of PM10 and PM2.5 have been observed during the past couple of days. External factors which also include effect of stubble burning have impacted air quality with 42% contribution as per SAFAR forecast on November 5. At local level, we have also intensified our pollution abatement measures and will seek more directions from the district administration to bring more stringent measures if possible,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB at Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-ghaziabad-suffer-year-s-highest-pm10-and-pm2-5-levels-during-nov-4-to-6/story-eNeU8ZxVVMoAO7PKF0qSLJ.html
06-11-2020||Noida||Air quality remains ‘severe’ for second consecutive day in Noida and Ghaziabad||Noida: The air quality of Noida, Ghaziabad and Greater Noida on Friday remained under ‘severe’ category for the second consecutive day, even as the air pollutants ventilated leading to a slight improvement. The levels of particulate matter (PM) pollutants were six to eight times the safe limits, making even healthy people vulnerable to lungs and heart related ailments. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), while the wind speed picked up and reached 8 to10 kmph for a short span leading to ventilation of pollutants on Friday, high instances of fire or stubble burning in neighbouring states did not let the situation to improve significantly. Weather analysts said that the unsupportive meteorological conditions would lead the air pollution levels in the three cities to fluctuate between ‘very poor’ and ‘severe’ categories. According to data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), air quality index (AQI) value of Noida, on a scale of 0 to 500, was 406 on Friday against 450 a day earlier, both ‘severe’. Similarly, the AQI values for Ghaziabad and Greater Noida were 433 (464 on Thursday) and 421 (457 a day earlier), respectively. “The situation is likely to prevail for the next three days as the wind speed will remain low. So, even if there is any improvement, it won’t be a significant one and only marginal. The wind directions will remain westerly, north-westerly coming via Punjab and Haryana,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD. According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), approximately 3,225 instances of stubble fire were observed in neighbouring states in the past 24 hours, against 4,135 the day before. SAFAR also anticipated air quality may improve but will remain within upper and middle range of ‘very poor’. “Not so calm surface winds are forecasted for the next two days favouring dispersion of pollutants, AQI is likely to improve today and tomorrow, but within the middle-end of the very poor category, deterioration is expected by the late 8th towards the higher end of very poor. SAFAR synergized stubble fire counts over Punjab, Haryana, UP, Uttarakhand and neighbouring areas stood at 3,225 yesterday,” said a SAFAR forecast. Meanwhile, the average PM2.5 pollutant level for Noida was 270.67 microgrammes per cubic metres (ug/m3) which is more than six times the safe limits, against 372 ug/m3 a day earlier. The PM10 for Noida was 478.077 ug/m3 – almost eight times the safe limits, against 571.4 ug/m3 a day earlier. The PM2.5 and PM10 for Greater Noida was 276.25 ug/m3 (400.06 on Thursday) and 520.17ug/m3 (620.87 on Thursday) respectively. The permissible limits of PM2.5 and PM10 are 40ug/m3 and 60ug/m3, respectively. “The pollutants, even though they have improved in the past 24 hours, are strong and high enough to cause health impact and the situation seems same as the last year,” said Shambhavi Shukla, programme officer (air pollution) at Centre for Science and Environment (CSE).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/air-quality-remains-severe-for-second-consecutive-day-in-noida-and-ghaziabad/story-qP06LQezbKzA476B7ToHOK.html
06-11-2020||Noida||Noida: Man booked for rape of minor daughter||Noida: A 40-year-old man was booked for allegedly raping his 11-year-old daughter, the police said. According to the Noida police, the girl’s mother had filed a case last week in Delhi, and later the Delhi police transferred the matter to Noida Phase 3 police station on Thursday. Jitendra Deekhit, station house officer, Phase 3 police station, said that the couple lived with their 11-year-old daughter in Chijarsi village in Noida. “Recently, the family shifted to Delhi. The suspect works in a Noida factory. The woman and her husband had some domestic dispute. The woman filed a complaint with women’s cell in Delhi alleging her husband raped their daughter last month,” Deekhit said. The Delhi police registered a case under Section 376 of IPC and later transferred the matter to Noida, the police said, adding that the incident took place when the family was living in Noida. “On Thursday, the matter was transferred to Noida police as a Zero FIR. The Delhi police told us that they took the victim for medical examination but the family refused for internal examination. We have registered a case and launched an investigation into the matter. We have called the suspect to join investigation on Saturday,” Deekhit said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-man-booked-for-rape-of-minor-daughter/story-AKOVQwY5F699jJGSsJGYGN.html
06-11-2020||Mumbai||Two held in Navi Mumbai nearly two years after stealing LED TV from school||The Navi Mumbai crime branch arrested two men for stealing an LED television and a projector from a Zilla Parishad (ZP) school in Panvel almost two years ago. One of the accused was trying to sell the TV in scrap but the deal could not be finalised as the scrap dealer was only giving him ₹50 for it.The accused duo – Roshan Mhatre (27 years) and Vinay Joshi (22) – are both residents of Harigram village in Panvel. The ZP school is also located in the same village.On February 6, 2018, under the influence of alcohol, the two broke into the school through the window and stole the 41-inch LED TV and the projector. The duo thought they were stealing a home theatre system, the said police. But the men woke up to a disappointment the next morning.“They split the booty amongst themselves. While Joshi kept the projector, Mhatre took the TV home. When they came to their senses the next morning, they were unable to operate the electronics. They stored the items at home until recently when Mhatre tried to sell the TV,” said Sharad Dhole, assistant inspector at crime branch unit 2.When the scrap dealer was only ready to pay for the scrap value and said he would give him nothing more than ₹50, Mhatre called off the deal. An informant then alerted the police about the TV after which they picked up Mhatre for interrogation.Police said Mhatre confessed to stealing the items from the school with Joshi. The police recovered both the electronic items from the accused’s houses.Both the men have no previous criminal records and police said this was their first attempt at stealing.The state government had donated the electronics to the school and is a property of the state, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/two-held-in-navi-mumbai-nearly-two-years-after-stealing-led-tv-from-school/story-SJhu4eVtWjnQYeWmPV2lLL.html
06-11-2020||Mumbai||Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Transport resumes bus services to Navi Mumbai||Following a demand from the commuters, the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Transport (KDMT) resumed its civic bus services connecting Navi Mumbai on the Kalyan-Vashi and Kalyan- Konkan Bhavan- CBD Belapur routes on Friday.This is one of the popular routes in the city as many travel to Vashi and Konkan Bhavan from Kalyan for work. In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, services on both these routes were called off by the civic transport body along with all other routes.Milind Dhat, general manager, KDMT, said, “Since the lockdown has eased and people are moving out for work, we want them to use civic buses for transportation. Many travel to Vashi and Belapur from Kalyan. For them, there was no service earlier. People used to depend on railway or private vehicles for transportation.”On the first day, nearly 460 passengers took the KDMT buses to Vashi and Konkan Bhavan. The civic body has also issued a dedicated time table for the services on these routes.The buses to Vashi will start at 7.15 am from ST depot in Kalyan (W). This bus service will be available at 30-minute frequency. From Kalyan (E) the service will be available only once in the morning at 8.15 am at Shreeram Chowk. Considering the need for social distancing inside the buses, the KDMT has made it mandatory for the passengers to wear masks.“We are trying to improve the service by adding more and more routes. Passengers taking the civic bus will be allowed in only if they wear a mask otherwise there will be no entry,” added Dhat. Presently the KDMT has 137 buses out of which only 52 of them are functioning, as many buses are to be repaired. Out of the 52 buses, twenty are given to the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation for Covid duty purposes. While the rest are plying for common public. “People have been waiting for some sort of transportation to reach their work place. The civic bus service will definitely help many but they need to make people aware of the service so that more people use the buses. I travel to Vashi daily for work, I might take a civic bus now if it is safe and on time,” said Darshan Nair,27, a resident of Kalyan (E).The KDMT that initiated its services from Kalyan Dombivli since 1999, had added the Kalyan-Vashi route in 2001 and Dombivli-Vashi route in 2007-08. The Shreeram Chowk - Vashi route service was also added in 2008. Several times, these routes were cancelled by the KDMT due to lack of passengers earlier. Route No 11:KALYAN TO VASHI First bus: 7.15am Last bus: 9.30pmTimings : 7.15am, 8.15am (Shreeram Chowk-Vashi), 10.15am, 11.15am, 12.30pm, 2.15pm, 4pm, 8 pm, 8.30pm, 9pm and 9.30pm.VASHI TO KALYAN First bus: 8.45am Last bus: 11.05pm Timings: 8.45am, 10am , 12.30pm, 1pm, 2.15pm , 3.55pm, 5.45pm (Vashi to Shreeram Chowk), 9.35pm, 10.05pm, 10.35pm and 11.05pm.ROUTE NO. 15KALYAN- KONKAN BHAVAN (CBD BELAPUR)First bus: 7am Last bus: 6. 15pmTimings: 7am, 8am, 9am, 11am, 12pm, 4pm, 5pm, 5.30pm, 6.15pm KONKAN BHAVAN TO KALYANFirst bus: 9amLast bus: 7.50pmTimings: 9am, 9.20am, 10.30am, 12.45pm, 1.45pm, 6.15pm, 6.45pm, 7.10pm, 7.50pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kalyan-dombivli-municipal-transport-resumes-bus-services-to-navi-mumbai/story-SZjVxkBYUwhnNF13MIBzPL.html
06-11-2020||Mumbai||Builder in Panvel held for duping at least 25 people of ₹19.63L||The Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of the Navi Mumbai crime branch arrested a 36-year-old builder earlier this week for allegedly duping at least 25 persons by promising them a bungalow on a plot in Panvel.The accused conned the clientele of ₹19.63 lakh. The accused, identified as Rohan Arte, is a builder and had been on the run since last year, said police.“The accused had made brochures for a bungalow on a plot in Nere, Panvel. He had promised to build the bungalow at a cheap rate. After showing the plot to prospective buyers, he would accept the token booking amount and con them,” said Vijay Waghmare, senior inspector at EOW, unit 2.The accused accepted the money from the complainants between 2015 and 2017. However, after accepting the money, there was no development on the plot.The police had registered a case against Arte in June last year following the complaints of several persons whom he duped. Since the FIR was registered, Arte fled his Panvel residence.Police said Arte was hiding in Kandivali from where he was arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/builder-in-panvel-held-for-duping-at-least-25-people-of-19-63l/story-gMxTg1ZYgGTlvzZO4kCrOP.html
06-11-2020||Mumbai||Thane civic body chief appeals for no fireworks, no plastic this Diwali||The Thane municipal commissioner has appealed to the residents to celebrate plastic-free and fire cracker-free Diwali this year.Thane city has more than 47,451 Covid-19 cases, of which 1,138 have died. Civic chief Dr. Vipin Sharma has appealed to the citizens not to use firecrackers that will affect these patients’ health.Sharma said, “The pandemic is not over. We still have active patients in Thane city and a lot of them have suffered from the infection. This disease will have after effects on the human body. Therefore, the air pollution from fire crackers can affect those infected or recovered. For everyone’s good health, we are appealing to all the citizens not to use fire crackers this Diwali. Residents have co-operated with us during other festivals. We are sure they will do so during Diwali too.”TMC has also started campaign of banning plastic under Swachh Bharat. Under these campaigns TMC will take action against the one who use plastic and throw garbage on the road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/thane-civic-body-chief-appeals-for-no-fireworks-no-plastic-this-diwali/story-qb8EDNhBr8Q07BrMniuDSJ.html
06-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn imposes stock limit on onion traders to contain prices||To contain the rising onion prices, the UT administration on Friday imposed stock holding limits on onions with immediate effect till December 31.Food supplies and consumer affair department ordered that dealers including wholesalers, distributing agents, and selling agents can stock up to 25 metric tonnes (MT) while retailers can store up to 5 MT.The stock limits have been issued following orders of the ministry of consumer affairs, food, and public distribution, and in concurrence of the Removal of Licensing Requirements, Stock Limits, and Movement Restrictions on Specified Foodstuffs (Second Amendment) Order, 2020.The order, however, will not apply to government agencies. Also, any importer (wholesaler, retailer, or dealer) will be exempted for the imported stock of onions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-imposes-stock-limit-on-onion-traders-to-contain-prices/story-6rJahaGrssqauYhAZwfrLI.html
06-11-2020||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai civic body, MIDC meet to discuss and resolve civic issues including water supply||To resolve several civic issues involving Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC), the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) chief Abhijit Bangar had arranged a meeting with the MIDC officials on Thursday.The meeting revolved around the issues of low pressure water supply from MIDC to Airoli, Digha and Ghansoli, slow work of the internal roads in MIDC area and leasing a few plots under MIDC among others.In the municipal area, 35 MLD water for gaothan areas and 35 MLD for the slum areas is supplied by MIDC. Thus, a total of 70 MLD water is provided to Airoli, Digha and Ghansoli by NMMC, which receives from MIDC.However, for the last few months, MIDC has been providing only about 28 to 30 MLD water at low pressure. Bangar, in the meeting, asked MIDC to rectify the issue at the earliest.Residents and public representatives of Nerul Slum, Ramesh Metal Quarry, Mahatma Gandhi Nagar and Saroj Quarry had been demanding extra water connection. MIDC and NMMC agreed to conduct a joint survey and work on this issue.Mahendra Konde, NMMC PRO, said, “We have also asked MIDC not to delay road repair works in its area as there have being repeated complaints of such a delay from the residents. Work on the 770m stretch of the water line undertaken by the corporation from Mahape to Digha is stalled at Yadav Nagar due to space constraints. The commissioner demanded that action be taken to find a solution to these problems and expedite the work. MIDC was also informed to remove the encroachment that had been obstructing the road concretisation work of the corporation from Uranphata to Turbhe flyover.Six plots for urban health centre and nine others for water tank and toilets under MIDC, which have to be handed over to NMMC under lease, are pending. The civic body asked to expedite the process.Satish Bagal, regional officer, MIDC, said. “The meeting was to discuss the issues and find solutions. While NMMC is the local body that governs the city, it uses some of our land on lease as per the need. There was also an issue of 70 MLD water supplied from Barvi dam under MIDC. The issues pertaining to them were discussed and we will try to resolve them soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-civic-body-midc-meet-to-discuss-and-resolve-civic-issues-including-water-supply/story-m3DCGmtdYq62hjnYODV7nL.html
06-11-2020||City||Man killed, body loaded on scooter and dumped near drain||New Delhi: A 28-year-old man was killed and dumped near a drain in outer Delhi’s Nihal Vihar early Wednesday for objecting to his sister-in-law’s alleged relationship with a man who works as a compounder, the police said on Friday after cracking the murder case.The compounder, 25-year-old Suraj, and his cousin, Pawan, who allegedly helped him in the murder and destroy evidence, have been arrested, said A Koan, deputy commissioner of police (outer district).They have been booked for murder and destruction of evidence.The victim, who was into construction work, and the accused Suraj lived in Nilothi Extension neighborhood of Nihal Vihar and were friends for years.“The victim’s brother and sister-in-law were not in good terms with each other. They had informally separated and the woman was living elsewhere with her three children,” said another investigator not authorised to speak to the media.A few weeks ago, the two brothers began suspecting that the woman was in a relationship with Suraj.“Since the victim was friends with Suraj, he urged him to stay away from his sister-in-law. But Suraj didn’t pay heed and continued speaking to the woman. That led to frequent arguments between Suraj and the victim,” said the investigator.“Suraj finally decided to eliminate the victim. He sought help from his cousin, Pawan,” said the officer.As per plan, on Tuesday night, Pawan allegedly called the victim to his house on the pretext of having a party. “At Pawan’s home, Suraj strangled the victim,” the officer said.Suraj borrowed a scooter from a friend by saying he needed to take a patient to a hospital. “Sandwiching the dead man on the scooter, they rode some distance from their house and dumped his body near a drain,” said the officer.Some passerby soon noticed the body and made a police call at 2 am on Wednesday.The police identified the victim by Wednesday morning and began enquiring in the neighbourhood about who he was last seen with on Tuesday night. “That enquiry revealed Pawan’s name. Pawan confessed to the crime and said it was all a plan by Suraj who was also the man who had strangled the victim,” said the officer.Suraj was arrested on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-killed-body-loaded-on-scooter-and-dumped-near-drain/story-ajIFjqOhrjaZDpcEnZ3I7L.html
06-11-2020||City||Court allows eight foreign Jamaat attendees to be sent back||New Delhi: A Delhi court on Friday allowed the deportation of eight foreigners, who were discharged of charges of being negligent and attending a Tablighi Jamaat congregation here in March this year in violation of the government guidelines issued in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic that has broken out at that time.Additional sessions judge Sandeep Yadav allowed the foreigners’ petition, seeking deportation to their countries and imposed certain conditions on them. The judge directed the investigating officer (IO) to facilitate expeditious closure of the lookout circulars (LoC) against them.The court, however, said the foreigners would have to come back to join the proceedings if a revision petition challenging their discharge is allowed by the court. The judge directed them to deposit Rs 30,000 as surety amount and submit their names, phone numbers and email address to the IO before leaving the country.On August 24, a magistrate court had discharged the eight foreign nationals of all the charges under which they were charge sheeted in the absence of any record or credible material against them. The city police, however, had challenged this order, which is pending adjudication.While discharging them, the court had directed that the passports of all of them should be released.Advocates Ashima Mandla and Mandakini Singh had filed a application, stating that though the foreigners were discharged of all charges and their passports were released, necessary orders directing deportation and closure of LoCs against them were not granted.According to the application, the Supreme Court had on October 15 granted them liberty to move a formal application before the trial court for deportation as per the law.They foreign nationals were charge sheeted under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 271 (Disobedience to quarantine rule) 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code.They were also booked under section 51 (obstruction) Disaster Management Act, section 14 (1) (b) (violation of visa norms) of Foreigners Act and Section 3 (disobeying regulation) of Epidemic Diseases Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/court-allows-eight-foreign-jamaat-attendees-to-be-sent-back/story-Qu4t73kobFzLBMcfYhGS9H.html
06-11-2020||Mumbai||7 arrested for cheating Kalyan residents of ₹6-cr||The Bajarpeth police in Kalyan arrested seven persons including three women for cheating about 40 residents of Kalyan to the tune of ₹6cr on the pretext of giving them personal loan. They took loans in the names of these residents and transferred the money in their own account. The entire fraud came to light when the owner, Prashant Kambli, died recently and the bank started demanding money from the people.Complainant, Akshay Mane, 32, approached Bajarpeth police after he received a letter from the bank to pay ₹1.17 lakh EMI on the loan he has taken.Mane had approached Sankalpa Finance Company in 2017 for personal loan. Kambli took extra loan than the amount Mane needed, in Mane’s name. The additional amount was transferred to Kambli’s personal account. He had assured Mane that he will pay the EMI and also pay one per cent interest every month for using his loan amount money. Bajarpeth police station senior police inspector, Y Chavhan said, “ The accused invested the rest of the money in share market and other schemes to increase the money and was giving interest to these people. Almost 40 such people have taken loan through him in this way. In July 2020, Kambli died due to Covid-19 and then there was no one to pay EMI of these people. Bank started asking EMI from these people and then they approached us. We have arrested seven accused who are relatives of the deceased accused and were working with him.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/7-arrested-for-cheating-kalyan-residents-of-6-cr/story-8E23IkA9sSg180iGMum71L.html
06-11-2020||Mumbai||Thane police arrest 32-yr-old for killing step-mom in West Bengal 9 years ago||The Thane crime branch, on Friday, arrested a 32-year-old man who had allegedly murdered his step-mother nine years ago in West Bengal. The accused had fled the murder scene and was absconding for the last nine years.The accused, identified as Salim Molla, 32, was booked for murder at the Swarup Nagar Police station in W Bengal in 2011.Police sub-inspector Dattatray Sarak, from Thane crime branch, received information about the accused arriving in Thane. The police laid a trap near busy Jambali Naka Market on Thursday and arrested him at around 4.30pm. An officer said, “The accused killed his step-mother in anger by beating her up with iron rod and later fled the scene. He alleged that his step-mother was trying to separate him and his father, and therefore he took the extreme step out of rage. We are handing over his custody to the Swarup Nagar police officials for further investigation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/thane-police-arrest-32-yr-old-for-killing-step-mom-in-west-bengal-9-years-ago/story-sSbWXN5D7DvbSnfxvguxkN.html
06-11-2020||Chandigarh||Privatisation of Chandigarh power department: Committee takes decisions to improve competition among bidders||For privatisation of the UT electricity department, the administration will first formulate a company and then privatise it. This was decided during the first meeting of the empowered committee on power privatisation which was held on Friday. The representative of the power ministry, along with the transaction adviser, attended the meeting.The committee finalised the request for proposal (RFP) and the letter to be written to the joint electricity regulatory commission (JERC) regarding the transfer scheme. It was decided to formulate a company first, which will take over the assets of the power department. It was also decided to create a trust to manage the pension obligations for the government employees, who will get transferred to the private company.Several decisions were taken to improve competition among the bidders. UT adviser Manoj Parida stated that since Chandigarh is a well-administered territory, there will be many bidders for the privatisation offer and, the decision will be taken with total transparency. He also said that the interest of existing employees will be protected after privatisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/privatisation-of-power-department-committee-takes-decisions-to-improve-competition-among-bidders/story-Wx2Z1oGsm4Pde375oYJZuI.html
06-11-2020||City||Woman held for committing sacrilege at Dera Bassi village||A 32-year-old woman was arrested for allegedly committing sacrilege by tearing pages of Guru Granth Sahib at Devinagar village in Dera Bassi. The accused was identified as Ranjit Kaur, 32.According to police, Kaur tore several pages of the holy book and threw them in the village gurdwara around 8.30am, when a devotee noticed her and restrained her. She sounded the gurdwara granthi, who informed the police. A team comprising senior superintendent of police (SSP) Satinder Singh and superintendent of police (rural) Ravjot Kaur Grewal reached the spot and arrested Kaur. The SSP said they were checking the accused’s medical history and had booked her under Sections 295-A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings) and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) of the Indian Penal Code and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.He said in the wake of the incident, they had increased police patrolling in the area and urged villagers to maintain peace. SP Grewal said the accused entered the gurdwara from another gate without covering her head and was disheveled. “She was produced in a Dera Bassi court and sent to three-day police remand,” the SP added. The accused hails from the same village and lives with her mother and two children. In a similar incident in 2017, a mentally unstable man was arrested for committing sacrilege at the same gurdwara.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-held-for-committing-sacrilege-at-dera-bassi-village/story-qZ5bfVzPKqagRsOI3IY7tM.html
06-11-2020||Chandigarh||BJP failed to run Chandigarh civic body effectively: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Chandigarh unit on Friday criticised the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for ‘non-performance’ concerning the welfare of people.Addressing the media, AAP leader Chander Mukhi Sharma said, “The people of the city are frustrated with the working style of the BJP, that is WIMP: wasteful expenditure (W), incompetency (I), misgovernance (M), poor performer (P).”“BJP has failed to run the civic body effectively. Recent developments on GPS watches issue and water tariff issue, have clearly shown the misgovernance by the BJP president, the mayor, and BJP councillors”, he added. On the GPS watch issue, AAP convener Prem Garg said, “The BJP Chandigarh unit president had assured the protesting safai karamcharis that their demands would be met, but when the agenda was presented in the MC house, it stated, “To review the decision of GPS watches for employees of MC”, which indicated that the BJP intended to mislead the safai karamcharias by presenting a different picture to them, and assuring them that the proposal will be cancelled.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bjp-failed-to-run-chandigarh-civic-body-effectively-aap/story-2LVQs9iflHoeJXzx6kCHjN.html
06-11-2020||Noida||₹25 crore to be spent annually on wildlife conservation around airport site in Jewar||The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida), along with the Noida International Airport Limited, has decided to spend ₹25 crore annually on wildlife protection and conservation in the 25km buffer zone to be demarcated around the site of proposed international airport in Jewar.The move comes after several discussions with the Wildlife Institute of India (WII) that is about to finalise the conservation plan. The Noida International Airport Limited (NIAL), a nodal agency to monitor the airport project, had signed a memorandum of understating with WII on August 30 last year for the preparation of a conservation plan. WII is an autonomous institute under the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change. “WII had already submitted a draft report and an inception report to us on conservation plan around Jewar airport. We have asked them to make changes in the report because we have decided to make 25km buffer zone instead of 10km. They are likely to submit a final report very soon. After discussions, we have decided to spend ₹25 crore annually on protection and conservation of flora and fauna, and environment in the 25km area of airport site,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer of Yeida and NIAL.Apart from ₹25 crore, Yeida and NIAL will also arrange ₹10 crore annually from corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds. “We have decided to arrange ₹10 crore under CSR scheme in which corporate houses spend money on social activities. We have already in touch with interested companies for the additional fund,” said Singh.The Noida International Greenfield Airport project is spread on 5,000 hectares of area that falls in 39 villages in Jewar along the Yamuna Expressway, that connects Greater Noida with Agra. Under Phase 1, the government has acquired 1,334 hectares of land on which the development work by Swiss company Zurich International AG, the concessionaire for the airport project, is likely to be started by mid-2021. The airport will become operational as per deadline by 2023.“We have decided to rope in a central agency such as Forest Research Institute that will help us in implementation of conservation work. We are likely to set up a rescue centre for injured birds or animals that may face any trouble when the construction begins,” said Singh.Besides, there is a plan to set up a veterinary hospital and a monitoring station at the site, the officials said. In a survey, it is found that the authority needs to conserve 135 wetlands, which are located in 25km buffer zone.“As many as 129 wetlands are fed by rainy water only, and remaining six are old wetlands, which have water in all seasons. We will make sure all these wetlands are conserved,” said Singh.The officials said that expert teams will be deployed in standby mode at the site to rush help to an injured bird or animal. “The central agency to be roped in will monitor the construction closely via close circuit television cameras and provide immediate relief to any bird or wildlife animal in need. We have also decided to make a bird sanctuary at Dhanauri, that is a habitat of Sarus crane,” said the Yeida CEO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/25-crore-to-be-spent-annually-on-wildlife-conservation-around-airport-site-in-jewar/story-a3Mv9NIJECZYNCs6QyqsIO.html
06-11-2020||Delhi||Ban on green crackers leaves traders gasping for air even as Delhi chokes||Even as people in the city have started gearing up for Diwali festivities, the news of ban on sale of green crackers has lead to wholesalers and traders staring at losses. Following orders from the Supreme Court that allowed sale of green crackers in Delhi, traders had stocked up, hoping to see a good season. But the Arvind Kejriwal-led government in the Capital announced a blanket ban on sale, purchase and use of all kinds of firecrackers in the city from November 7 to November 30. In a tweet, the CM said, “Reviewed the corona situation in Delhi and preparedness with Chief Secy, health officials and all DMs. Corona cases have increased due to festival season and pollution. It was decided to ban crackers in Delhi.”Counting losses and questioning the efficacy of banning green crackers, Ravi Bedi of Bedi Traders, says, “Yeh toh zulm hua hai. We had purchased green crackers worth ₹ 7 lakh. What will we do with these now? The Supreme Court had passed the use of green crackers, toh fir yeh kyu bandh karna chahte hain? For two years when green crackers were not developed, we didn’t sell anything, but now when we have an alternative, they want to ban it too.”Read: Delhi vendors request govt to permit sale of green crackers till DiwaliThe pandemic had already left a dent on businesses, but wholesalers were still hopeful for Diwali. “Covid mein vaise hi log pareshaan hain, business khatam ho chuka hai. Thodi si ummeed jaagi thi Diwali pe ki kuch sale ho jayegi, par ab sab barabar ho gaya. Pollution ki saari report government ke paas aa rahi hai ki pollution isse nahi ho raha. Yeh paraali jalne aur vehicles ki vajah se ho raha hai. Trader toh marr gaya naa isme, voh ab kya karega,” rues Om Prakash of Fancy Fire Works.Making a case for green crackers, traders argue that the pollution caused by these isn’t even a fraction of that caused by other factors. “Green crackers only create 4% pollution and that’s the reason they were okay-ed. Har saal license dete hain par end time pe haath kheench lete hain. At least give us clarity if they want to shut down this industry, and not keep us hanging to face losses. Green crackers have a shelf life of only six months, we can’t even hope to sell them next year,” says Rajesh Khurana of Mayur Patakha Shop, who also have their own factory in Rohtak, Haryana. In the wake of losses, he plans to shut shop for good. “We have been in this business for the last 30 years, but ab hum bhi thak gaye hain. We have packed everything and this is the last year we are here.”Read: Coronavirus: Air pollution may lead to faster spread of Covid-19 infections, officials tell Par panelDiwali always comes as a time of hope, and for people employed in this industry, this ban would mean loss of livelihood for many. “Financially toh bahut logo ka nuksaan hai. From trader to manufacturer and labour, everyone will be impacted. At least 8 lakh people will suffer, meaning 8 lakh families,” explains Vinod Kumar Gupta of Hanuman Fire Works, adding, “Dilli mein pollution Navratri se shuru ho gaya tha, aur abhi tak patakahe chale bhi nahi hain. It is clear that crackers are not causing pollution. Hum vyapaari hain aur chahte hain ghar-ghar mein Diwali manaayi jaaye, par jaan se upar toh vyapaar bhi nahi. Green crackers came as a viable solution but even now that’s banned.” Interact with Etti Bali @TheBalinianFollow @htcity for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ban-on-green-crackers-leaves-traders-gasping-for-air-even-as-delhi-chokes/story-KNtnrhJwvZ6gKyi4l3Y1rI.html
06-11-2020||Pune||13th Yellow ribbon NGO fair goes online||The Yellow Ribbon NGO Fair (YRNF) has kickstarted its 13th edition online amid the Covid-19 crisis. The fair’s theme this year is ‘Swadeshi with Pride’.The fair started on November 1 and will continue until Sunday. Along with people from the city, the online fair also gives a chance of shopping to residents of Mumbai. The fair provides a platform to many non-government organisations and self-help groups that will showcase and sell their products, thereby helping income generation activities and also creating awareness about the work done by them. Over the last several years, thousands of people have shopped at the YRNF at Creativity mall (formerly Ishanya mall) and this time people just have to visit creaticityonline.com to get their favourite products. “I sincerely encourage and warmly invite all patrons to visit without fail, after all, your shopping will not only give you some unique products and gifting ideas, but also bring smiles to many families during these challenging times. Make the effort to log in, shop and celebrate and feel joyful too,” said Parul Mehta, managing trustee, Ishanya foundation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/13th-yellow-ribbon-ngo-fair-goes-online/story-GjNShltoXkPM2aMSU3SVBN.html
06-11-2020||City||Six more Covid deaths in Jammu & Kashmir||Jammu and Kashmir on Friday witnessed six Covid-19 deaths and 582 new cases on Friday, taking the total Covid count to 97,805 and death toll to 1,523.As per the official data released in the evening 353 people tested positive in Kashmir and 227 in Jammu. Two people succumbed to the disease in Jammu and four in Kashmir.A total of 1009 people have succumbed to the disease in Kashmir and 514 in Jammu. Two districts of Kashmir, Srinagar and Baramulla constitute 50% deaths in Kashmir province.On Friday, 632 people recovered and were discharged from the hospitals and Covid centres. Srinagar, Baramulla and Jammu district had 119, 116 and 102 recoveries.So far, 90537 people have recovered from the disease and now the active cases have reduced to 5,745 in J&K. The total number of tests conducted in the UT has crossed 24.39 lakh.In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 169 more people tested positive. In Jammu division, the highest number of cases was recorded in Jammu district at 83. Srinagar tops the case tally with 20158 cases and 373 deaths followed by Jammu district with 18,179 cases and 265 deaths.Till date, 6.64 lakh people have been enlisted for observation – 15, 401 in home quarantine, 5,745 in isolation, and 43,559 under home surveillance. Besides, 5.98 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-more-covid-deaths-in-jammu-kashmir/story-qPIQvXAMPY1x14ZqhbAvPP.html
06-11-2020||City||Himachal logs four deaths, 430 fresh infections||Himachal Pradesh on Friday recorded 430 fresh infections taking the state’s tally to 24,239. Besides this, the death toll climbed to 359 with four more patients succumbing to the contagion. Of the new cases, Of the new cases, record 121 were reported in Mandi, 92 in Shimla, 46 in Kinnaur, 31 each in Solan and Una, 27 in Kullu, 26 in Kangra, 20 in Bilaspur, 15 in Chamba, eight in Lahaul-Spiti, seven in Hamirpur and six in Sirmaur. One fatality each was reported in Shimla, Mandi, Lahaul-Spiti and Chamba. The active cases in the state are 3,841. Solan is the worst-hit district with 3,770 cases and is followed by Mandi with 3,442 infections whereas Kangra is on the third position 3,306 cases. Shimla has 3,036 cases, Sirmaur 2,335, Kullu 1,786, Una 1,632, Bilaspur 1,405, Hamirpur 1,355, Chamba 1,250, Kinnaur 488 and Lahaul-Spiti 434. 15% jump in fatalitiesThe hill-state has witnessed a rise of deaths around 15% in the first week of November. As many as 47 people have died due to the contagion in six days in the state. Shimla is worst affected district in terms of fatalities due to the virus. The district has recorded 82 deaths and is followed by Kangra with 74 deaths while 45 people have died in Mandi. The fatality ratio in the state is 1.5%. There also has been a spike in new infection in first six days of November. As many as 2,180 people have been detected infected during this period — an increase of 9%. The state has conducted a total of 4.20 lakh tests. The recovery rate has dropped down to 82%. Till date, 20,016 people have been cured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-logs-four-deaths-430-fresh-infections/story-oU3s48mhOY0gpgt3TPqcEL.html
06-11-2020||City||Journalists urge Jai Ram to withdraw cases against them||A delegation of journalists on Friday led by Press Club, Shimla met chief minister Jai Ram Thakur at a hotel here urging him to withdraw cases being registered against them in the state.In the memorandum, the journalists alleged that criminal cases were being registered against them in various districts of the state resulting in their mental harassment.A similar case was recently registered by Vigilance Bureau against a senior journalist of Shimla. Such action is a blow to the freedom of the press, said the representatives of Press Club. During the ongoing pandemic, they said, journalists, despite a threat of infection, have acted as a bridge between the public and the government by reporting impartially. In such a situation, the government should immediately take back the cases being registered against the journalists.Jai Ram Thakur said that the state government respects the fourth pillar of democracy and no vendetta action was being taken against anyone.He said that instructions have been given to withdraw cases against journalists registered during the Covid-19 pandemic. He assured that cases filed against journalists would be withdrawn in a phased manner.Earlier, the Press Club Shimla called an emergency meeting and expressed concern over the FIR lodged by the police on senior journalists throughout the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/journalists-urge-jai-ram-to-withdraw-cases-against-them/story-Mo7YEttCq2MNWM2SAYbZiJ.html
06-11-2020||City||If J&K had to go with Pak, it would have done so in 1947: Farooq Abdullah||Addressing his party workers in Jammu for the first time in over a year, National Conference president Farooq Abdullah on Friday said that if Jammu and Kashmir had to go with Pakistan, it would have happened in 1947 and no one could have stopped it. His son and former chief minister minced no words to criticise the BJP government for allegedly peddling lies before and after the revocation of Articles 370 and 35-A in Jammu and Kashmir. The father and son duo reached Jammu on Friday to take part in PAGD meet scheduled on Saturday. “Sheikh Mohammad Abdullah had then told Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru that our destiny lies with Mahatma Gandhi’s India and not of BJP’s India,” he said. The Abdullahs came to Jammu for the first time following their detention in Srinagar on August 4, 2019. “Let these people burn my effigies. Farooq doesn’t get intimidated by this. Come in front of me. I don’t pick batons and stones… come face me and my queries,” he said in a clear reference to BJP, whose leaders and workers have been torching his effigies after he made controversial remarks about China’s aid to restore the special status of J&K. He also took a dig at the Centre for the dignified return of Kashmiri Pandits to Kashmir. “While Kashmiri Pandits are still in Jammu hoping to get back one day, for how long will you use them for votes and for how long will you spread hatred,” he said and cautioned the people against “divisive politics” of the BJP in the name of caste, creed, and religion. The octogenarian said that National Conference won’t be deterred by arm-twisting tactics of the BJP government and the struggle to get back Article 370, 35-A and other privileges will be taken to its logical conclusion. NC and PDP have formed the PAGD seeking restoration of the special status of the erstwhile state as it existed before August 5 last year and also to initiate a dialogue between all stakeholders on the issue. NC vice-president Omar Abdullah also accused the BJP of resorting to conspiracies, fakeries and arm-twisting tactics. “Many tried to perform last rites of NC but none succeeded. History is replete when our opponents tried to write us off but this programme today here in Jammu is a message for those who tried to peddle lies that NC is now confined to some areas of Valley,” Omar said. Omar said that before August 5, 2019, several lies were peddled like there were no jobs, development and progress, people were starving, the majority endorsed separatist sentiment, penury and that people were not with the country because of Article 370. “Similarly, another lie was that if Articles 370 and 35-A were revoked, all ills plaguing J&K will vanish into thin air overnight. It has been one year and three months now. Where is development and progress that was promised,” he said. Omar also felt that revocation of special status has caused a spike in terrorism in the Union territory. “There was another false claim that revocation of Article 370 will result in the complete amalgamation of those nurturing separatist sentiment with India but today I can confidently say those harbouring such sentiment have been further alienated from us”, he said.“Not even a single citizen of J&K has accepted this draconian decision of the BJP government. While some say it openly, some confess it in whispers. Article 370 was not mentioned in Pakistan’s constitution. It was in the Indian Constitution. So, why can’t we discuss it and how does talking about it makes us anti-national,” he asked. “This fight is of not of NC or one religion but of all regions and religions and we will succeed in it,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/if-j-k-had-to-go-with-pak-it-would-have-done-so-in-1947-farooq-abdullah/story-elhiAuWJZOiWx3IxkjvBmO.html
06-11-2020||City||BJP has no courage to speak up against China: Mehbooba Mufti||In a scathing attack on the Centre, People’s Democratic Party (PDP) president and former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti on Friday said that the government has suppressed people in Jammu and Kashmir but has “no guts to speak up against China that has occupied 1,000 kilometres” in Ladakh.She was addressing the party workers ahead of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) meet at Farooq Abdullah’s Bhatindi residence here on Saturday. “China has taken over 1,000km in Ladakh region but the government continues to hold talks with them. The Chinese army has killed 20 soldiers in Ladakh, but still, they (BJP) don’t speak a word against them,” she said adding that despite the Chinese army constructing permanent barracks and buildings in the occupied territory, the government is not even taking the name of China.Mentioning the eighth round of talks being held between India and China on Friday, she said, “You talk to China but you don’t talk to people of Jammu and Kashmir whose identity, culture and land you have destroyed. Today our country is not being run in accordance with the Constitution but on the BJP agenda. They have shredded the constitution of Dr BR Ambedkar into pieces.”The PDP leader recalled how her father Mufti Mohammad Sayeed used to travel by the length and breadth of the region in scorching summers because he believed that Jammu and Kashmir are two indispensable parts of the same body. “We could have easily formed government with Congress but that would have been an insult to the mandate of the people of Jammu. People in Kashmir said that PDP joined hands with a communal party and an anti-Muslim party. They said that this party demolished Babri Masjid but Mufti Sahib went ahead with his decision and formed the government with BJP,” she said. She added that the government has done away with laws that would protect land and jobs of the people of Jammu and Kashmir. “Special status of J&K, a brainchild of Maharaja Hari Singh to protect the identity and culture of Dogras, was snatched in the dead of the night,” Mufti added.In her speech, she said that she will take this struggle to its logical conclusion. “Remember, a time will come when Articles 370, 35-A, and the special status of J&K will be restored. The BJP is holding Tricolour in their hands but they want to destroy India and they have glued their eyes on J&K, which is nothing but a ploy to garner votes,” the PDP leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-has-no-courage-to-speak-up-against-china-mehbooba-mufti/story-cKYWzdYcCqKMml61MeJL4K.html
06-11-2020||Chandigarh||Mercury dips to 11°C in Chandigarh, air quality improves||The city’s minimum temperature dropped to 11.2°C on Friday, the lowest this season. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), it is expected to go below 10°C degrees in the next few days.“By Diwali, which is on November 14, the night temperature is likely to drop to 10°C. North-westerly winds, which are dry and cold, will make the mercury dip further,” said an IMD official.The maximum temperature also reduced slightly from 30.8°C on Thursday to 30°C on Friday, while the minimum temperature went down from 12.4°C to 11.2°C. Over the next three days, the day and night temperatures will remain around 29°C and 10°C, respectively.Meanwhile, the Air Quality Index (AQI) of the city improved further on Friday, coming down to 111 by 7pm at the Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Station in Sector 25. Calling the jump on Wednesday (AQI 203) an aberration, Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee vice-chairman Debendra Dalai said, “When the AQI goes up for a single day, it is usually attributed to a specific wind activity going on around the station. The sensors can pick up even a small increase, but if the situation sustains, it is a cause of worry.”Dalai added that the administration’s decision to ban crackers will help keep the AQI in check, which was much needed in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mercury-dips-to-11-c-in-chandigarh-air-quality-improves/story-ezVNfIEnmhBOk84uYsbK9I.html
06-11-2020||City||Yamuna sells residential plots, land for schools, naturopathy facility near airport||The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) on Thursday allotted residential plots via a lucky draw to individual plot buyers who want to build houses near the upcoming Jewar airport.The authority had on August 24, 2020, launched this plot scheme to offer individual residential plots in close proximity to the Noida international greenfiled airport in Jewar, along the 165km Yamuna Expressway. The authority offered a total of 1,075 residential plots in sectors 17, 18, 20 and 22, which are only 5km away from the airport site. The plots are in the size of 120 ssquare metres (sqm), 162 sqm, 200 sqm, 300 sqm, 500 sqm, 1,000 sqm and 4,000 sqm. The authority is set to earn ₹336 crore revenue from the sale of these plots at a rate of ₹16,550 per sqm. The lucky draw took place at the Sector P3 community center in the presence of a committee that monitors the allotment process. The authority recorded the process via videography to maintain transparency. “We have received extremely good response for this scheme and that too during this Covid-19 pandemic when many people are experiencing financial distress. We are happy to have received extremely positive response towards all our schemes and we have earned revenue during these tough times,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer,Yeida.It has 391 plots of size 120 sqm, 281 plots of 162 sqm, 41 plots of 200 sqm, 238 plots of 300 sqm, 41 plots of 500 sqm, 74 plots of 1,000 sqm and nine plots of 4,000 sqm. The Yeida received 1,333 applications for 120 sqm size plots, 790 applications for 162 sqm plots, 54 applications for 200 sqm plots, 241 applications for 300 sqm plots, 18 applications for 500 sqm plots, 14 for 1,000 sqm plot and two applications for 4,000 sqm plots, said officials.“The demands for bigger size plots are not that high -- only two have applied for the 4, 000 sqm plots, and 14 for 1,000 sqm plots. We will break these unsold plots into smaller units in the future and then sell them,” said Shailendra Bhatia, officer on special duty, Yeida.The authority has allotted 985 plots in all sizes and earned ₹336 crore revenue. It has also allotted land for naturopathy facility and schools to four organizations. The school plots have been allotted after interviews and application processing, said officials. Other details of the school plots are yet to be shared by Yeida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/yamuna-sells-residential-plots-land-for-schools-naturopathy-facility-near-airport/story-UEOeibbCgIiHgywJfMp4iL.html
06-11-2020||City||Gunfight in Pampore: Two terrorists killed, another surrenders||Two unidentified militants, belonging to Lashkar-e-Taiba, were killed and another surrendered in an encounter in South Kashmir’s Pampore area, police said on Friday. The encounter began on Friday morning after the forces had halted the operation for the night that was launched in the Meej Lalpora area of the Pampore on Thursday evening when militants opened fire on civilians.A police spokesperson said that two militants were killed in the encounter and another surrendered during the operation.Sources said that the militants hail from Pakistan and another who surrendered was injured during the encounter.“During cordon and search operation (CASO) at Lalpora Pampore, terrorists fired indiscriminately in which two unknown persons got injured. Search in the area is going on,” the spokesman said. However, due to darkness, the operation was halted but the entire area was sealed by the forces.Officials, however, said one of the injured terrorists succumbed to his injuries in the hospital and has been identified as 22-year-old Abid Ahmad.After the killing of the militants in the early hours, another militant came out from the house and offered to surrender. A video went viral on social media in which policemen are encouraging him to surrender. A pistol was also recovered from the militant who laid down his weapon.In another video, the militant identifies himself as Khawar Sultan of Pampore. He said that he joined militancy in September. He also asked the youth who are still carrying arms that they should also lay down their weapons. “I wasn’t harmed neither tortured by the forces.”Kashmir range inspector-general of police Vijay Kumar said, “They (security forces) are helping the misguided youth.”Khawar who hails from the Pampore area of Pulwama district is the sixth active militant who surrendered before forces during the live encounter, the second during this month.Last month, four youth who had joined militancy were captured alive or surrendered before the forces.In Pulwama, in another incident, militants fired upon a driver identified as Mohammad Aslam Wani at Wanpora due to which he got injured and was admitted to a hospital for treatment.“Cases have been registered under relevant sections of law at Tral and Pulwama police station respectively,” said the police spokesperson.Recently, J&K director general of police, Dilbag Singh had said that 200 militants were killed in the UT this year of which 190 were killed in Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gunfight-in-pampore-two-terrorists-killed-another-surrenders/story-SnJCxRNodteD0k7YId9wOK.html
06-11-2020||City||Facilitate US firms to invest in state: HP CM to US ambassador to India||Us ambassador to India Kenneth I Juster met chief minister Jai Ram Thakur to discuss areas of mutual interest. Thakur urged Kenneth to facilitate United States companies to invest in the state.“India-US bilateral relations have developed into a global strategic partnership, based on shared democratic values and increasing convergence of interests on bilateral, regional and global issues thus creating an opportunity to reinvigorate bilateral ties and enhance cooperation in various spheres,” said Thakur while interacting with Kenneth. CM said that Himachal Pradesh had been bestowed with immense natural beauty and grandeur thereby providing ample opportunities to the entrepreneurs to invest in various sectors in the state. He said that the serene atmosphere and eye-catching valleys of the state allured the tourists to visit the state frequently. The topography of Himachal Pradesh was quite similar to Colorado and California State of USA and these offered an immense opportunity in mutual cooperation in the field of tourism, Thakur apprised Kenneth Jai Ram Thakur said Himachal Pradesh also has immense potential in horticulture and allied sectors. He said that there is also a vast scope of investment in other sectors such as establishing cold storage, CA stores, pack houses, processing units etc. He said that he had personally participated in a webinar with US-India Business Council on June 26 and had detailed discussions with delegates regarding investment opportunities in the industrial sector. CM said that the state government had successfully organised ‘Global Investors Meet’ at Dharamshala in November 2019 to attract more investments in various fields like tourism, power, health, industries, information technology etc. He said that as many as 256 MoUs worth Rs 17,541 crore were signed in the tourism sector alone Later, Justin met governor Bandaru Dattatreya. Both discussed strengthening cooperation in tourism and creating more avenues for the education sector in the US, for students from the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/facilitate-us-firms-to-invest-in-state-hp-cm-to-us-ambassador-to-india/story-UEHwsLVFvLtgSHYtGpRVbL.html
06-11-2020||City||Police roll out ITMS to rein in traffic violators in Dharamshala town||Kangra police on Friday rolled out Intelligent Traffic Management System (ITMS) in Dharamshala town to rein in traffic violators.The pilot project was launched by deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati in presence of senior superintendent of police (SSP) Vimukt Ranjan.Dharamshala will be the second town in Himachal after Kullu to have ITMS.Ranjan said that two high-definition Automatic Number Plate Recognition (ANPR) cameras have been installed on the highway connecting Dharamshala. The cameras, capable of different video analytics, are linked to a control room set up at district police headquarters.Presently, these cameras have analytics for three violations including over speeding, riding without a helmet and triple riding, he said, adding that the cameras can capture clear images in any weather and more analytics will be added at the later stages.Ranjan said the personnel monitoring the traffic in the control room can access the footage up to the last month. Once a violation is caught on camera, video footage and the picture of the number plate is stored in the control room system.“After analysis, the control room person-in-charge pushes the data to the District Centre of National Informatics Centre (NIC) and ITMS service provider and a notice to the violator is generated on his mobile phone,” the SSP said.The SSP said that they intend to implement the project in the entire district.The system would reduce human intervention in the implementation of traffic norms, besides the requirement of force to regulate traffic and bridging down the number of accidents and loss of life.“Now, no one will go scot-free for violating traffic rules. They are under constant watch,” said Ranjan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-roll-out-itms-to-rein-in-traffic-violators-in-dharamshala-town/story-AMCFWx7Qw6TbPmxzYqt0TN.html
06-11-2020||City||HPPSC debars candidates from carrying purse during exams||Adopting zero tolerance towards any unfair means in the examination hall, Himachal Pradesh Public Service Commission (HPPSC) has decided that candidates appearing for various examinations conducted by the commission, will be allowed to carry only permitted examination articles in bare hands i.e. pen/ pencils/ admit cards/ identity proof and copies of photographs” without carrying any pouch or purse.HPPSC, secretary Ashutosh Garg said that during the Himachal Pradesh Administrative Combined Competitive (prelim) examination, 2019, which was conducted on September 13 this year, a mobile phone was seized from a candidate inside the examination hall.“Taking very strict cognizance of the same, the candidate has been permanently debarred for all future examination(s) of the commission including the HPAS 2019 exam. The information of said debarment is being sent to the Union Public Service Commission, New Delhi including all the state commissions and Himachal Pradesh Staff Selection Commission.In view of the above, the commission has decided that in the future, purse or any kind of pouch will be debarred from the examination hall,” said Garg.“Any violation in this regard by the candidates shall be viewed seriously,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hppsc-debars-candidates-from-carrying-purse-during-exams/story-gCTSZrBwY9hdlPNZS9uvJO.html
06-11-2020||City||Congress protests removal of foundation stone having Sonia’s name at Atal Tunnel||Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) on Friday staged a protest at Lahaul-Spiti district headquarters Keylong against the removal of plaque laid by UPA chairperson Sonia Gandhi during the foundation laying ceremony on June 28, 2010, and have demanded the state government to reinstall it immediately.During the protest, HPCC president Kuldeep Rathore said that removing the foundation stone plaque from Rohtang Tunnel is an undemocratic, unlawful and unconstitutional move by BJP led Centre and state government.He said that the BJP is trying to distort history and Prime Minister Narendra Modi may rewrite new books wherein Nathu Ram Godse may be adored as a freedom fighter. “Congress party will fight to save our Constitution” he added.After the protest, HPCC also submitted a memorandum to Lahaul-Spiti deputy commissioner.Rathore said that Congress will continue to hold protests every day until the foundation stone is not reinstalled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/congress-protests-removal-of-foundation-stone-having-sonia-s-name-at-atal-tunnel/story-0OU4ovCtXDbW2ZthmBMFdJ.html
06-11-2020||City||Withdraw anti-people policies or face stir: Agnihotri to HP govt||Leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri on Friday demanded the state government to immediately withdraw all “anti-people” policies taken during the Covid-19 pandemic and said the Congress legislature party and the Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) will work together to formulate a strategy and launch a statewide movement against these decisions.In a statement issued by Agnihotri, he said that the government is putting a financial burden by keeping the interests of the people at stake. “There is growing public anger against the government’s decisions to increase inflation. If chief minister Jai Ram Thakur thinks that he will keep on putting a financial burden on the people and they will not react at all then it is his mistake as his decisions are going to backfire” he said.Agnihotri said that the present state and central governments have broken all the records of inflation. “At a time when people are struggling with unemployment and financial crisis, death count due to coronavirus is increasing day by day and many people of the state are committing suicide, the government is shamelessly reducing grants and hiking prices,” he added.He said that former CM Virbhadra Singh had given a popular scheme of rationing in the state, which has been ruined by the present state government.Recently, the state government has hiked the prices of pulses and edible oil. Not only this, the government has hiked the rates of installing new electricity meters. In the same way, the government has hiked the registration fee of vehicles.Agnihotri said that the policies of government can no longer be tolerated as they are not working for the welfare of the people but are openly looting them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/withdraw-anti-people-policies-or-face-stir-agnihotri-to-hp-govt/story-IOH6zR2bCN6CUAkPWioPyN.html
06-11-2020||Noida||Tender issued to hire a developer for airport farmers’ township||The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) has issued a tender to select a developer who will build a township spread across 48 hectares in Jewar Bangar, where farmers displaced for the airport project will be rehabilitated. “We have issued the tender to select an agency that will develop the township meant for farmers, whose houses have been acquired to develop the airport project. We are likely to finalise the agency in the next two months to start the work on the ground,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer, Yeida. The Yamuna authority has decided to develop six dedicated blocks for each of the six villages, whose inhabitants will be rehabilitated. The authority wants that all farmers of a particular village live together as they did in their villages. Each block will represent a village, officials said. The authority and the administration has acquired 1,334 hectares, including six parts of six villages for the phase one of the project.The villages whose residents would be rehabilitated are Rohi, Parohi, Ranhera, Kishorpur, Banwaribas and Dayanatpur. A total of 8,971 farmer families had given up their agricultural land and houses for the development of the Noida international greenfield airport in Jewar, along the Yamuna Expressway that connects Greater Noida with Agra.There are 3,627 families, of the 8,971 total families, whose houses will be completely demolished. The UP government has already sanctioned ₹350 crore for the development of the township that will be one of its kind for multiple reasons, officials said, adding that the township will have a temple and a mosque as well, apart from facilities such as schools, primary health centre, parks, and sewage network, among others, on par facilities found in urban areas, officials said.The authority has also decided to compensate the farmers adequately so that they remain happy as they have given their land for the development of the airport project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/tender-issued-to-hire-a-developer-for-airport-farmers-township/story-qZ1AvocH9mWqEnWIVsSNFJ.html
06-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s daily Covid cases cross 100 mark after a month||For the first time in almost a month, the Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh crossed the 100 mark, with 133 fresh infections being reported on Friday, taking the case tally to 14,927.The death toll also rose to 230 with an 80-year-old man from Sector 35 succumbing to the virus at a private hospital in Mohali.It was on October 8 last when 102 cases were reported, following which their number remained below 100 till Thursday when 96 cases were reported.Among those testing positive on Friday are 10 employees of Union Bank of India, Sector 17. The cases cropped up after one of the employees tested positive and contact tracing led to the identification of 31 contacts. Meanwhile, 63 patients recovered on Friday, taking the number of cured persons to 13,925 and leaving 772 active cases.Three dead in Mohali, 71 test positiveThe district’s death toll due to Covid-19 rose to 242 with three more people losing the battle against Covid-19 on Friday. Also, 71 fresh cases took the case count to 12,730. With 53 patients being discharged, the recoveries increased to 11,876, while 609 patients are still infected.No casualty in Panchkula, 69 new casesAs many as 69 people, including three healthcare workers, tested positive for Covid 19 in Panchkula district on Friday, though no death was recorded.With this, the total number of cases has increased to 7,383, of which 285 are active, while 6,981 people have recovered. As per health authorities, 148 healthcare workers have tested positive so far in the district that has witnessed 117 deaths. On Friday, 11 employees of the Haryana Vidhan Sabha that were tested by the Panchkula health authorities were also found infected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-daily-covid-cases-cross-100-mark-after-a-month/story-Qct3MeanZfphzCApa4nOQK.html
06-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana assembly session: Nikita murder case to be fast tracked, says Anil Vij||Haryana home minister Anil Vij on Friday assured the state assembly that the murder of a college student Nikita Tomar by her stalker Tausif in Faridabad will be heard in a fast track court. Replying to a calling attention motion on the issue moved by Congress MLA from Faridabad NIT, Neeraj Sharma and INLD MLA Abhay Chautala, the home minister said the special investigation team (SIT) constituted to probe the killing will also look into the possibility of love-jihaad angle. Vij said the state government was also deliberating on enacting a law to check forcible religious conversions. He said the state government is also compiling information about instances where forced religious conversions took place to give effect to an interfaith wedding. Congress MLA from Faridabad NIT, Neeraj Sharma said the SIT probing the murder case should be headed by an officer of the rank of inspector general (IG) or additional DGP since there is a suspicion of involvement of a senior police official too. “The trial should be conducted by a fast-track court,” he said. Vij said an FIR pertaining to kidnapping registered on Nikita’s complaint in 2018 was withdrawn by the police. “If that criminal case was not spiked, Nikita probably would have been alive. The accused in the murder case is related to a powerful political family. I have asked the police to investigate the matter from 2018 when that FIR was registered,” he said. INLD MLA Abhay Chautala said the government needs to ensure that adequate security is provided at women colleges and examination centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-assembly-session-nikita-murder-case-to-be-fast-tracked-says-anil-vij/story-om2M63rH9EYKXpAFQKkuGL.html
06-11-2020||Chandigarh||Assembly session: Opposition slams Haryana government on liquor smuggling probe||Opposition MLAs in Haryana assembly on Friday slammed the state government for a “half-hearted” inquiry in the instances of pilferage of liquor from warehouses during the Covid-19 lockdown. Speaking during a calling attention motion on smuggling of liquor from warehouses in Kharkhauda, Fatehabad and Samalkha, former leader of opposition Abhay Chautala questioned how the liquor freely flowed in villages and towns during the lockdown period. The calling attention notice was submitted by 10 MLAs. “When no vehicle was allowed to ply and interstate borders were sealed, how could the liquor consignments have moved without the connivance of police and excise officials,” Abhay said. The INLD MLA said the intention of the government was never to firmly probe the matter. He said the SET had no powers to summon officials and record. “Home minister Anil Vij wanted Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPc) powers for the SET. However, instead of taking a decision on the matter, the chief minister referred the matter to the advocate general. The advocate general will write whatever the CM wanted,” he said, while demanding a CBI inquiry into the matter. Supporting Abhay Singh, Congress MLA from Tosham Kiran Choudhary said she sympathises with home minister Anil Vij and that there were glaring violations in the entire episode. “The excise and taxation commissioner didn’t issue written instructions for closure of liquor vends during the lockdown. Also, he stalled the visit of the SET to a distillery. This clearly shows that it was well planned,” she said, adding that action should be taken against the officials and distilleries. Congress MLA Shamsher Singh Gogi said the Crime Investigation Department (CID), the intelligence arm of the state police, keeps track of the movement of MLAs but failed to report to the CM about the unabashed movement of illegal liquor. “The excise officials refused to provide the records to SET. Now, a probe is being done by the vigilance bureau which will also turn out to be inconclusive,” Gogi said. Training his guns at Vij, Congress MLA Kuldeep Vats said Vij likes to call himself Gabbar. “But what kind of a Gabbar are you? Your efforts to bring culprits to book have not borne any results,” Vats said. Vij said the arrest of the chairman of NV distilleries Ashok Jain showed how serious the state government was about liquor smuggling. “Let me clarify. I’m not Gabbar but Anil Vij. And whatever matter I take up, I take it to a conclusion,” he said. Vij said on basis of the SET report, he has recommended disciplinary action against an IAS and IPS officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/assembly-session-opposition-slams-haryana-government-on-liquor-smuggling-probe/story-6Nfvz8RdzyTx1UvSVEVfJN.html
06-11-2020||City||Three held for stabbing canter driver, robbing him in Zirakpur||The Zirakpur police claim to have cracked an October 29 robbery with the arrest of three men.The accused had stabbed the victim, Rajesh Kumar, a canter driver, 32 times and snatched his Rs 6,000 in cash, a silver chain and important documents, including the canter’s registration certificate, and the victim’s driving licence, Aadhaar card and PAN card. “The accused, identified as Arjun Kumar, Laxman Kumar and Ashish Rana, hail from Raipur Khurd, Chandigarh. They have confessed to committing the crime. They were arrested from the nature park in Baltana and two knives and a wooden stick used in the crime were recovered from them,” said superintendent of police (rural) Ravjot Kaur Grewal.She added that all accused were unmarried and smuggled liquor from Chandigarh to Punjab. They will be produced in court on Saturday.The victim, Rajesh Kumar, a resident of Chanak Chak village in Kaithal district of Haryana, had arrived in his canter truck in Zirakpur on October 29 to deliver some rice bags.On the way, he stopped near Hotel Ramada to ask for directions to the godown. When he approached three youths standing on the roadside, two of them pushed him to the ground and attacked him on the back, shoulder and stomach with knives. Hearing his screams, a security guard rushed to aid, prompting the accused to flee in foot. The security guard had rushed him to a private hospital from where he was referred to GMCH, Sector 32, Chandigarh. The accused are facing a case under Sections 392 (robbery), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-held-for-stabbing-canter-driver-robbing-him-in-zirakpur/story-IyAOQ38Wh0N2DV4v6qWgHM.html
06-11-2020||Delhi||Like previous two surges, third wave of Covid-19 in Delhi will end soon, says CM Kejriwal||Like the previous two waves of coronavirus, the third one will end soon in Delhi, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Friday as he urged Delhiites to make wearing mask a movement to arrest the spread of Covid-19 amid festive season and rising air pollution.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19 After inaugurating a PWD project to strengthen Rohtak Road in Mundka, he urged people to properly wear face masks as it’s the best protection against Covid-19. “Till there is a vaccine for corona, consider face masks as the vaccine. These are the biggest protection against Covid-19 infection. We need to promote wearing face masks as a movement,” he said. Delhi is currently facing the third wave. In the first phase, the highest number of Covid-19 cases were reported and Delhiites helped bringing down the numbers. Again on September 17, there was a second surge, he said. “In this third wave, I’m extremely hopeful that Delhiites will continue to provide their support as always and it will come to an end soon,” he said. Citing the arrival of 32,000 Indians from virus-hit countries in March as well people coming from different parts of the country, he noted that Delhi faced a tough situation. “Delhi did not start at zero in terms of the number of Covid cases, Delhi started at thousands owing to the lack of aggressive testing of people who flew in through international flights,” the chief minister said. On the issue of air pollution, he said air quality in Delhi remains good from January till mid-October but worsens afterwards due to stubble burning in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. Delhi has provided an alternative in the form of a chemical developed by the Pusa Institute that converts stubble into manure. Next year there should not be any excuse by Punjab, Haryana and UP and stubble burning should stop, he said. If needed, the Delhi government or Pusa Institute may give the chemical (bio-decomposer) to the states where stubble is burnt, he said. PWD Minister Satyendar Jain said strengthening of the 13.33-km stretch of Rohtak Road from Jakhira to Delhi Border is scheduled to finish in six months but he would ensure that efforts are made to wrap it up in four months instead.Also Read | Experts, residents agree: Relaxations proving costly in fight against pandemic in Delhi The chief minister said that the Delhi government has previously also completed various projects well before time and at a lesser cost, and the time and cost-saving model will be replicated in this project as well. The total cost of the redevelopment project is Rs 25 crore, and it will be carried out with the use of the latest cold-milling technology, in which the upper layer of the road will be recycled and reused, said a PWD engineer. The road was first constructed in 2011 and was to be redeveloped in 2016. However, the project has now been taken up by the Delhi government from the Centre due to no sanction of funds by the National Highways Authority, said a government statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/like-previous-two-surges-third-wave-of-covid-19-in-delhi-will-end-soon-says-cm-kejriwal/story-Mm70pdoGBOb5XQL6VE5kNN.html
06-11-2020||City||Man charred to death as car catches fire in Panchkula||An unidentified man was burnt to death after a car caught fire near Mauli village on Panchkula-Barwala highway on Thursday night.Police said the flames erupted suddenly while the Maruti Swift DZire was on the move, jamming its doors and killing the driver. The vehicle continued to move as it caught fire until it hit a road divider.The car was completed ravaged and its registration number was also damaged, making it difficult to ascertain its owner. Police have also not been able to establish how the fire broke out. It took firefighters about 30 minutes to douse the flames. The body was moved to the Panchkula civil hospital’s mortuary for identification. Police are working to trace the car owner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-charred-to-death-as-car-catches-fire-in-panchkula/story-idpf6HjTA0ZJb9EEZKUJDM.html
06-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt bans all types of firecracker from Nov 7 to 30||In a bid to prevent the Covid-19 pandemic from worsening due to increased air pollution, the Delhi government has banned all types of firecrackers from November 7 to 30, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Friday.“The ban on crackers has been imposed in view of air pollution. This time around, there is pollution and Covid-19. When firecrackers are burst on Diwali, people are unable to breathe properly for around 3-4 hours late at night due to air pollution,” Jain told reporters here.Responding to whether ‘green cracker’ will be included in the ban, Jain said that there is a pandemic spreading around the globe and people should refrain from bursting crackers.“There is a pandemic across the country. People have not seen such a thing in their entire lifetime. People should understand and refrain from bursting crackers. Everyone should conduct poojas and offer prayers at their homes. The Laxmi pooja by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will be broadcasted live. Everyone can join him in their homes,” Jain said.“Pollution and Covid-19 are dangerous in and of themselves. To protect yourself from both, people should ensure not to leave their houses without a face mask... In the third wave of the Covid-19, positive cases are increasing. At present 7,231 Covid beds are occupied in Delhi and 8,572 are still available,” he added.Jain said that the number of Covid-19 beds in Delhi government hospitals will be increased and said that private hospitals will be asked to do the same.Also Read | Delhi can soon become ‘corona capital’, AAP govt going haywire on pandemic: HCSpeaking about the approaching winters and the arrangement made by the Delhi government to provide shelter homes to the needy, Jain said, “Shelter homes are being prepared and Covid-19 guidelines will be kept in mind while doing so. We are increasing the size of the shelter homes in view of the pandemic and will only fill the tents to half its capacity in view of Covid-19.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-bans-all-types-of-firecracker-from-nov-7-to-30/story-cyds3myY7gy8zU7n0Q07CK.html
06-11-2020||City||Nine-year-old boy mowed down by speeding tractor in Ambala||A speeding tractor crushed a nine-year-old boy to death in Ambala’s Machhonda village on Friday. The victim, Himanshu, a student of Class 4, was on his way on a bicycle when a tractor-trolley hit him and ran over him, killing him on the spot.In his complaint to the police, Rajesh, a gol gappa vendor and resident of Chander Puri Colony of the village, said his son had left home around 9.15am, but didn’t return. Later, he got to know that Himanshu was mowed down by a tractor-trolley. He alleged the tractor driver was speeding and fled the spot after the accident, leaving his vehicle behind. Ambala station in-charge Devender Singh said the unidentified tractor driver had been booked under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code. “We have impounded the vehicle and will arrest the driver soon,” he added.The victim is survived by his parents and three brothers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nine-year-old-boy-mowed-down-by-speeding-tractor-in-ambala/story-GTDFRmMyozpyyJoEzCKN8O.html
06-11-2020||Education||Maharashtra education department plans to reopen schools for classes 9 to 12 from November 23||The Maharashtra education department plans to reopen schools for Classes 9 to 12 on November 23, education minister Varsha Gaikwad announced on Friday. “We have proposed a phased reopening of schools post Diwali break as the government is trying to unlock various sectors in the state. The idea is to start with higher classes first, and for this we have drafted detailed Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). The draft SOPs are submitted for the Chief Minister’s approval,” said Gaikwad in a statement. Parents said that many will still be skeptical to send their children to schools. “Parents are worried about sending their children until there is a vaccine or the Covid-19 cases go down substantially. They will not want to take any risks when it comes to the health of the children. The government should explore flexible options of online and offline learning,” said Anu Sinha, a parent from Thane. Gaikwad said care will be taken to ensure that all safety protocols as suggested by the central and the state government shall be followed while reopening schools. “The government will ensure that appropriate measures are in place for the safety of students and teachers in schools,” Gaikwad added. On Friday, HT had reported the government’s plans of conducting Class 10 and 12 board exams in the month of May. In June, the education department submitted SOPs on online learning which also consisted of plans on physical reopening of schools. However, with the centre’s decision of not starting schools until October, schools in the state could not reopen. Now with Diwali break approaching, the government plans to reopen schools only by the end of November. As per previous SOPs, school management committees were asked to consider options like shift-wise running of schools, staggering school timings, changing seating arrangement in classrooms, disinfecting schools, not allowing crowding in buses, etc. Similarly, local administrations were asked to ensure sanitization of schools and screening of teachers and students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/maharashtra-education-department-plans-to-reopen-schools-for-class-9-to-12-from-november-23/story-qXggmBqz2jus8pdQTL0XaM.html
06-11-2020||Chandigarh||2 commuters arrested with 380g opium in Ludhiana||Two commuters were arrested with 380g opium in two separate cases here on Friday. Their scooters were also seized.In the first case, one Chanpreet Singh of Islamgunj was arrested with 340g opium during a special checking near Jaspal Bangar. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Subeg Singh, the arresting officer, said the accused and his accomplice Charanjit Singh of Kidwayi Nagar were coming from Gill Canal on a scooter when they were stopped for checking. Charanjit Singh fled upon spotting the police party while Chanpreet was arrested. Police found 340g opium hidden under the seat of his scooter.In the second case, police arrested Inderjit Singh of Alamgir Dhayiya village during a special checking near the T-point in Lohara. The accused was coming from Gill Canal on his scooter when he was stopped and frisked. Around 40g opium was found on his person.Two separate cases have been lodged under Sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-commuters-arrested-with-380g-opium-in-ludhiana/story-Cj0mKcduhirBRdBimxcvjL.html
06-11-2020||Election:||Bihar polls: Top Covid-19-hit districts to vote in third and final phase||Five of Bihar’s 15 districts, which go to polls in the third and final phase of assembly elections on Saturday, figure in the state’s top 10 Covid-19 districts in terms of the total number of cases. The polls on 78 seats in the 243-member Bihar legislative assembly will decide the fate of 1,204 candidates in fray for the final phase. The Grand Alliance or Mahagathbandhan had won 54 of these 78 seats. The JD(U), which won 24 seats, was then a part of the Grand Alliance, along with the RJD, which won 20 and Congress (10). The BJP, a major constituent of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), along with Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), the Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) and the Hindustani Awaam Morch (HAM), had won 19. Smaller regional parties had won the remaining five seats. Poll dynamics have, however, changed this time. The JD(U) is now a part of the NDA. The LJP, which was with the NDA in 2015, has parted ways and also opened a front against the JD(U). It has put up its candidates on all 115 seats the JD(U) is contesting. Faced with dissensions, the JD(U) has had to expel 33 party workers for six years. The RLSP is also out of the NDA. It has teamed up with Asaduddin Owaisi’s All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) and Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav’s Jan Adhikar Party (JAP) to form the Grand Secular Democratic Front, making it a triangular contest in many constituencies. Also read: Bihar Assembly Election 2020 - Will exit polls hit the mark this time?Purnia, Katihar, Araria and Kishanganj, which comprise the Seemanchal belt, have 24 of the 78 seats going to polls on Saturday. Seemanchal has a substantial Muslim population which varies between 30 per cent and 70 per cent among constituencies. The Grand Alliance had won 16 seats, including five by the JD(U), seven by the Congress, and 4 by the RJD. The BJP had won 6 in 2015. The CPI (ML) and the AIMIM won one each. The Kosi region, comprising Supaul, Saharsa and Madhepura districts, has 13 of the 78 seats going to polls in the third phase. The JD(U) had won eight, RJD four and the BJP one in 2015. While unemployment and migration are the common poll across the state this time, voters in the Kosi region are also upset over the recurrent floods. The twin districts of Champaran will see a contest on 12 of the 78 seats in the third phase. The BJP had won seven of them, JD(U) one, RJD two, Congress and independent one each in 2015. Of these, the BJP had won three in West Champaran, JD(U) one, Congress and Independent one each. In Purbi (east) Champaran, the BJP had won four and RJD two. In 2015, the JD(U) had won nine of the 21 seats going to polls in the third phase in Mithilanchal region comprising districts of Darbhanga, Madhubani, Samastipur and Sitamarhi. The BJP won four, RJD six and Congress two. The six constituencies in Muzaffarpur and two in Vaishali district that go to polls in the third phase, make for the remaining eight seats. The RJD had won five (three in Muzaffarpur and two in Vaishali), BJP two and Independent one.The BJP had drawn a blank in Madhubani, Samastipur, Madhepura and Saharsa in 2015. Also read: BJP’s Vinay Bihari looks to win Lauriya for the third timeFor the final phase, the JD(U) has put up 24 candidates, BJP 19, RJD 20 and Congress 10, while other smaller regional parties have five candidates. Several heavyweights, including two ministers in the Nitish Kumar government Narendra Narayan Yadav from Alamnagar constituency and Bijendra Prasad Yadav from Supaul, both JD(U) candidates, are among the 1,204 candidates in the fray in this round. Veteran socialist leader Sharad Yadav’s daughter Subhashini Bundela alias Subhashini Sharad Yadav, a Congress candidate, is pitted against JD(U) MLA Niranjan Kumar Mehta from Bihariganj constituency in Madhepura district. Nikhil Mandal, grandson of BP Mandal, who chaired the Mandal Commission and a former chief minister, is contesting the Madhepura seat on a JD(U) ticket. The total number of registered voters in the third phase is 2,35,54,071. The first two phases were held on October 28 and November 3, with a voter turnout of 55.68 per cent and 55.70 per cent, respectively. Poll results are scheduled on November 10.The Covid-19 factor Of the districts going to polls in the third phase, Muzaffarpur ranks second to Patna with a total Covid-19 case count of 9,970 and 42 deaths on Friday; Purnia fourth with 8,289 cases and 16 deaths; East Champaran fifth (7,765 cases and 44 deaths), Madhubani seventh (7,021 cases and 23 deaths); and Katihar tenth with 6,589 cases and 11 deaths. Araria ranked 11 in Covid case tally (6,593 total cases and 18 deaths), Saharsa ranked 14th (6,042 and 8 deaths), West Champaran- 15th (5,567 and 18 deaths), Supaul- 17th (5,043 and 14 deaths), Vaishali-18th (4,846 and 37 deaths), Samastipur-19th (4,755 and 34 deaths), Madhepura-22nd (4,382 and 13 deaths), Sitamarhi-24nd (3,895 and 12 death), Kishanganj-25th (3,847 and 11 deaths), Darbhanga-29th (3,565 and 31 deaths). These districts, however, have a case positivity of less than 3 per cent, according to state health officials who did not wish to come on record. A positivity rate of less than 5 per cent for over two weeks is the accepted as per the World Health Organisation norm. The positivity rate, which is the percentage of people who test positive for the virus out of those tested, is a key indicator of gauging transmission of the disease. The turnout of Covid-19 patients has been poor in the first two phases. Sources said the voter turnout of Covid-19 patients was around 125 in the first phase, with no infected person turning out to vote in many of the 38 districts. Only two Covid-19 patients, one being a candidate, turned out to vote in Patna, which tops with 37,097 cases and 275 deaths as reported on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-polls-top-covid-19-hit-districts-to-go-polls-in-3rd-and-final-phase/story-eFGQLbDdEvUyd7KnSviu7M.html
06-11-2020||Chandigarh||Now, PSPCL cash counters to stay open from 9am to 4pm||In a bid to enhance customers’ convenience, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has revised cash counters’ timing. Now, the counters will remain operational from 9am to 4pm on all working days. Earlier, customers could only deposit bills till 1pm. The district has over 24 cash counters. All offices have been directed to comply with the directions. This move will bring relief to customers who prefer depositing bills at cash counters as opposed to online. Reportedly, the cash counter at Fountain Chowk is visited by approximately 100 customers per day. It has also been observed that the counters are overcrowded and overextended on the last day of paying dues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/now-pspcl-cash-counters-to-stay-open-from-9am-to-4pm/story-0yt5EMAXMyydGSclalyYyN.html
06-11-2020||Noida||YEIDA to develop two new cities along Yamuna Expressway||The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA) on Friday decided to develop two new cities -- one at Vrindavan which will be spread across 4000 hectares and another in Agra which will be spread across 2500 hectares of land. In a meeting with top officials, Uttar Pradesh industry minister Satish Mahana gave the green signal to the proposal of the two new cities. YEIDA will also develop a heritage corridor from Jewar to Agra to promote cultural tourism along the 165km-Yamuna Expressway.Mahana conducted a review meeting with officials to track the status of Noida International Greenfield airport at Jewar. “We proposed the project of developing two new cities along the e-Way and it was approved. Now, we will start work on these two projects and also develop a heritage corridor,” said YEIDA CEO Arun Vir Singh.YEIDA will start work on a detailed project report of two cities now. “We will send the proposal to the state government for approval. We will start land acquisition for the two cities and take the project to the next stage. These projects will cater to housing needs in Vrindavan and Agra,” said Singh.The Uttar Pradesh government on April 24, 2001, had established YEIDA for development of areas between Greater Noida and Agra along the Yamuna Expressway. The objective was to set up industries to generate employment and develop urban areas. Around 2 lakh hectares from 1,187 villages of six districts, Gautam Budh Nagar, Bulandshahar, Aligarh, Hathras, Mathura and Agra, were notified under YIEDA. The authority has been able to acquire at least 25,000 hectares of land along the 165-kilometre long e-way with an aim to allot the same for development of cities along the corridor.The UP government wants that all old cities such as Dankaur, Mathura, Vrindavan and Agra should be promoted under cultural tourism in the proposed heritage corridor. “Our government has decided to give boost to cultural tourism under heritage corridor. Our historic cities like Mathura, Vrindavan and Agra are famous internationally. Our government will provide all the support so that the tourists who come to visit Taj Mahal in Agra also go to Mathura and Vrindavan,” said Mahana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/yeida-to-develop-two-new-cities-along-yamuna-expressway/story-QQV7XH6eOQDxUvbzgOgkuL.html
06-11-2020||Chandigarh||Probe into sharp rise in paddy arrivals in Punjab mandis||The food and civil supplies department in Punjab is investigating reasons for an unprecedented increase in paddy procurement in some of the state’s mandis and grain markets. State authorities were alerted after procurement almost touched volumes usually recorded in the entire season even as paddy arrivals continue. At a meeting held on Thursday, the state food department, mandi board and the agriculture directorate raised concerns over 170 lakh tonnes of paddy arriving in mandis in excess of projected estimates in the last week of September. Twelve districts out of 22 have reported increased arrivals as compared to the previous kharif season. Joint teams of the food and supplies, revenue and agriculture department are visiting the mandis in question. “From the mandis we will go back to arthiyas and farmers who have sold their produce to match their total yield with what has been recorded with the mandi board,” said a food department official not wishing to be named. “We will establish the link between production and procurement which is the way to identify wrongdoing. We know how much the average yield is and will find out how much arrived in the mandi,” the official added. The teams will investigate suspected bogus billing, twisting of production figures and selling of premium basmati grain, particularly the 1509 variety on MSP with the coarse grain. Reports say that as the 1509 variety has not fetched a good price a number of farmers have sold premium grains as the parmal variety which comes under MSP. Paddy procured this season is almost double the volume procured last year in the border district of Fazilka. The other districts include Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Kapurthala, SAS Nagar and Tarn Taran, where at least 50 mandis are under the official scanner. The food department, however, refused to release other details, saying local leaders have been opposing checks and scrutiny. “We have already touched 168 lakh tonnes and expect that total procurement will go beyond 185 lakh tonnes. So we have decided to reach the root cause (of why arrivals are increasing), especially when we are facing allegations that paddy has been smuggled in from outside the states and some qualities have been seized on the state border,” said the state’s food and civil supplies minister, Bharat Bhushan Ashu. Last month, 75 trucks loaded with freshly harvested paddy from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh were stopped at the state border. With paddy arrivals at an estimated 182 lakh tonnes the state food department is making arrangements for funds, (cash credit limits) and gunny bags. “We have to make arrangement for storage of the grains,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/probe-into-sharp-rise-in-paddy-arrivals-in-punjab-mandis/story-gAUDvihb3Yw2ZSHxKhrdGJ.html
06-11-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka bans firecrackers ahead of Diwali, chief minister cites Covid||Following in the footsteps of states like Odisha, Rajasthan and New Delhi, Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa said that the state would also ban firecrackers in view of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.The chief minister said orders to this effect would be issued shortly. “In view of the Covid pandemic, we have decided to ban crackers, orders would be issued shortly.”State Health Minister K Sudhakar on Thursday said firecrackers can badly impact the health of those who have already been infected by Covid-19. Sudhakar said experts have advised to control use of firecrackers.Also read: Nepal and India have long-standing special relationship: KP Sharma OliNeighbouring Tamil Nadu, which is one of the biggest producers of crackers in the country, had protested the decision of certain states to ban firecrackers. Tamil Nadu chief minister E Palaniswami had also written to the CM’s of these states. Karnataka’s decision is likely to impact sales of firecrackers worth several crores mainly concentrated around Diwali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-bans-firecrackers-ahead-of-diwali-chief-minister-cites-covid/story-Wt65aiw0cRmY2iCp64HdBK.html
06-11-2020||Chandigarh||Resigning won’t help Punjab farmers, staying united will: Navjot Singh Sidhu||Former Punjab minister and Amritsar East Congress legislator Navjot Singh Sidhu on Friday said that if the state government resigns in protest against the Centre’s farm laws, it won’t solve the problem of farmers rather staying united and supporting their protest will. Addressing a rally of farmers at the sabzi mandi at Vallah in Amritsar Sidhu said, “Today, the Centre is supporting the corporate sector and taking revenge from the people of Punjab by framing the three anti-farmer laws. Now, when the farmers of Punjab are united and fighting for their rights by protesting against the Centre, the resignation of the Congress-led state government will be of no use. If we (the Congress government) resign, the state will be ruled by the governor and farming in the state will be in the hands of the Centre, against whom we are protesting.” The Centre’s policy of punishing farmers for stubble burning shows it is anti-farmer. “Instead of imposing fines, the Centre must find ways to help farmers financially. It only gives benefit to 5% of farmers in the state for not burning stubble but the remaining also need help,” he said. He said the state government should ensure the construction of more cold storage houses in rural Punjab so that farmers can store the produce in large quantities and sell it at a good price. He suggested farmers should adopt organic farming.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/resigning-won-t-help-punjab-farmers-staying-united-will-navjot-singh-sidhu/story-cGeYyVQef9p9NV0SDSDvUM.html
06-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Criminal escapes from hospital after testing positive for Covid-19||A 25-year-old man facing robbery and drug peddling charges, who was arrested on October 27, escaped from a hospital on Thursday after he was admitted there for Covid-19 treatment. Police said they have launched a manhunt for Chhotu Lalman Varma. Varma was arrested for the possession of 120 gram mephedrone, a synthetic stimulant drug, and sent in seven-day judicial custody. “Before sending him to jail, the police, as per new mandatory procedure, sent him for Coronavirus testing and he tested positive. On court’s order, he was admitted to the GT Hospital...” said a police officerDinesh Kadam, the senior inspector of Byculla police station, said Varma faces cases of theft, robbery, drug peddling. “We have informed other police stations about Varma’s escape and are hoping to arrest him soon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-criminal-escapes-from-hospital-after-testing-positive-for-covid-19/story-2nvPDRo17wchosecNzkEaI.html
06-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Bursting or selling firecrackers could attract fine of up to Rs1 lakh||Bursting or selling crackers this season can earn you a fine of up to Rs1 lakh under, Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai said on Friday. A day after Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced a complete ban on the sale and use of firecrackers, including “green crackers”, in Delhi, Rai said that people caught selling or bursting firecrackers can be fined up to Rs1 lakh under the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act (1981). “Prosecutions will be made under the Air Act, which has a provision to slap fines going as high as Rs1 lakh,” Rai said on Friday. Also read | Ensure there’s no smog in Delhi after Diwali break: SC tells CentreRai said he will convene a meeting with representatives from the environment department, Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) and the Delhi Police on Monday to chalk out a detailed action plan to enforce the ban. According to Kejriwal’s announcement on Thursday, the cracker ban will be in force from November 7 to November 30. “While the regular pollution sources in Delhi continue to remain consistent throughout the year, bursting crackers ahead of Diwali and the stubble burning in neighbouring states add to Delhi’s pollution levels. Looking at the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the city, saving people’s lives is more important than the economic aspect of losses borne by cracker traders,” Rai said. Rai also announced the setting up of 15-member impact assessment panel to monitor spraying and record the effectiveness of the ‘Pusa bio-decomposer’ which promises to turn farm stubble into manure. This has been promoted as a solution for mass stubble burning in the agrarian states of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, which adds to the foul air in Delhi every winter. Rai said that the panel will consist of MLAs, district level officials and scientists from the Indian Agriculture and Research Institute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/bursting-selling-firecrackers-could-attract-fine-of-up-to-rs1-lakh-says-delhi-environment-minister/story-IMT02Knel29ZtlFbnpVq1K.html
06-11-2020||Lucknow||‘Keep off social media for 2 years’: Allahabad HC grants bail to man who made objectionable remarks against UP CM||The Allahabad High Court has granted bail to a man accused of making objectionable remarks online against Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on the condition that he keeps off social media for two years. Justice Siddharth passed the order Monday on a bail application by Akhilanand, who was booked in Deoria for allegedly making objectionable remarks on social media against Adityanath and other public figures. Akhilanand has been in jail since May 12 and his counsel argued that he was falsely implicated in the case. While granting bail, the judge ordered, “Applicant will not use social media for a period of two years or till the conclusion of trial before the trial court, whichever is earlier.” Akhilanand was also asked to furnish a personal bond and sureties. The court said the applicant shall not tamper with the prosecution evidence by intimidating witnesses during the investigation or the trial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/keep-off-social-media-for-2-years-allahabad-hc-grants-bail-to-man-who-made-objectionable-remarks-against-up-cm/story-gA9qBgQK1ygnB7WYi3fPIN.html
06-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi HC stays EDMC decision to disqualify councillor Tahir Hussain||The Delhi high court on Friday stayed the decision of the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) to disqualify Tahir Hussain as councillor on a plea which had contended that the civic body’s decision was arbitrary, illegal and against the principles of natural justice.Justice Najmi Waziri stayed the August 26 decision of the EDMC and posted the matter for further hearing on March 17, 2021. Hussain is accused in ten cases related to the north-east Delhi riots including his role for hatching a conspiracy to orchestrate the riots along with 14 others.The single-judge bench also issued notice to the corporation, represented by its standing counsel Gaurang Kanth, and sought its stand on the petition.Also read | ‘Cannot shy away from liability’: Tahir Hussain’s bail plea junkedThe court’s order came on Hussain’s plea filed through advocate Rizwan who contended that his client had not absented himself from the meetings of the EDMC for three successive months as the meetings were never held successively for three months till August when the decision to vacate his seat was taken.The counsel told the court that the meetings were held in January and February and then again in June and July. The plea read that the principles of natural justice had been violated, adding, “The proposal for vacation of his seat was taken on August 20 and decision was taken on the proposal on August 26, however, the petitioner (Hussain) was never informed or provided with a reasonable opportunity during the period.” The petition said that Hussain had been in judicial custody since March 5 in connection to one of the cases and could not be faulted in the unavoidable circumstances. EDMC mayor Nirmal Jain had cited the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act and said if a councillor remains absent from meetings of the corporation for three successive times, without permission, his/her membership can be ended.“Tahir Hussain has not attended any of the House meetings in the last 3-4 months. He has not informed me or the corporation about the reasons behind his absence. So... we have passed a proposal to terminate his membership on the grounds that he skipped at least three successive House meetings without informing the corporation,” he had said in August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-hc-stays-edmc-decision-to-disqualify-councillor-tahir-hussain/story-w6gqjvrW5EEfeQk8Sjp0qL.html
06-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi vendors request govt to permit sale of green crackers till Diwali||The vendors in Delhi on Friday requested the government to permit the sale of green crackers till Diwali, after it banned the use of all firecrackers till November 30, as air pollution in the national capital soared to its worst level in a year.“Due to the sudden ban, we have to face losses of approximately Rs 15-20 lakhs. Earlier, the government said green cracker can be sold and gave us licence. We had already purchased the stock,” said a vendor, according to news agency ANI. Vendors in Delhi request government to permit the sale of green crackers till Diwali."Due to the sudden ban, we have to face losses of approx Rs 15-20 lakhs. Earlier the govt said green cracker can be sold and gave us licence. We had already purchased the stock," says a vendor. pic.twitter.com/537FuRARMiOn Thursday, the average air quality index (AQI) was in the “severe” zone for the first time this season, just over a week before Diwali, a festival during which the use of illegal firecrackers in the past has led to the crisis spiralling out of control. According to the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) 4pm bulletin, the average AQI for the 24-hour period since Wednesday was 450. The day before, it was 343. Air quality is considered “good” when AQI is lower than 50.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic was deteriorating in the Capital due to rising air pollution and appealed to people to avoid using them. “If we burst firecrackers this Diwali, we are playing with the lives of our children and families...” he added.“Reviewed corona situation in Del n preparedness wid Chief Secy, Health officials and all DMs. Corona cases hv increased due to festival season n pollution. It was decided to... ban crackers in Del...,” Kejriwal later tweeted. The ban will remain in place from November 7 to November 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-vendors-request-govt-to-permit-sale-of-green-crackers-till-diwali/story-A0ruMUbS26dq9jzSDKaOGN.html
06-11-2020||Chandigarh||CIC allows Centre to withhold list of documents, material seized during Operation Bluestar||The central information commission (CIC) has allowed the Centre to withhold the list of documents and precious material seized by a central agency during the 1984 operation at the Golden Temple in Amritsar in which 576 people, including army personnel, were killed. A right to information (RTI) applicant, Gurvinder Singh Chadha, had demanded from the Union home ministry a list of all material seized during the operation and its present status as well as all records related to the operation and the list of all those who died during the operation conducted by the army to flush out militants holed up inside Golden Temple. Without giving the list and details of the seized material, the ministry said in its RTI response to Chadha that: “About 4,000 documents/books/files and gold/gold ornaments, silver/silver ornaments, precious stones currency, coins etc. were recovered by a central agency during Operation Bluestar. The articles and documents were handed over either to the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) or to the Government of Punjab.” “As per records available with this office, 493 terrorists/civilians and 83 army officials were killed in the Golden Temple area in June 1984,” the home ministry said. Dissatisfied with the denial of specific information about the seized material, Chadha filed the first appeal within the ministry before a senior official who upheld the denial of information, invoking Section 8 1(a) of the RTI Act. The Section allows the government to withhold information, disclosure of which would prejudicially affect the sovereignty and integrity of India, the security, strategic, scientific or economic interests of the State, relation with foreign State or lead to incitement of an offence. RTI APPLICANT CHADHA NOT SATISFIED WITH RESPONSE During the second appeal before the central information commission, the highest adjudication body in RTI matters, Chadha said that a satisfactory response was not yet provided on points related to records of Operation Bluestar and a list of material seized during it. The ministry said a point wise response was provided to Chadha but the details sought pertained to confidential information, the disclosure of which could prejudicially affect the safety and security of the country. Agreeing with the home ministry’s view, information commissioner YK Sinha held Chadha has sought “vague, ambiguous and generic information” that cannot be disclosed in terms of the provisions of the RTI Act, 2005. “Hence, no further intervention of the commission is warranted in the matter,” Sinha said. SGPC DEMANDS RETURN OF ARTEFACTS The SGPC has been demanding the return of artefacts, allegedly taken away by the army during Operation Bluestar in 1984. In June last year, SGPC chief secretary Roop Singh had said the holy scriptures, artefacts and historical books, which were part of the Sikh Reference Library, were taken away by the army during the operation. When asked that a section of media had reported that the Centre had returned the artefacts to the SGPC, Singh had claimed that only a few copies of historical books were returned. He had said still a large quantity of material and handwritten copies of the Guru Granth Sahib were with the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cic-allows-centre-to-withhold-list-of-documents-material-seized-during-operation-bluestar/story-SjdlTKYs4SSwiLpaIWwNyK.html
06-11-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 doesn’t discriminate, please wear masks, urges Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday urged people to wear masks to protect themselves against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and treat wearing masks like a vaccine against the disease till an actual vaccine is available.“I come across a lot of people in everyday life who either don’t wear masks or wear it the wrong way – with their noses and mouth exposed. That does not work. One must remember that Covid-19 does not discriminate and it can happen to anyone – the poor and the affluent, the young and the old, men and women,” said Kejriwal at an event to mark the foundation of a road redevelopment project.Kejrwal added, “This is the third wave of Covid-19 in Delhi and things are in bad shape. We have seen two distinct peaks on June 23 and on September 17.”On June 23, Delhi had recorded 3,947 cases in a single day and 4,432 on September 17. “We can win the fight against Covid-19 like the way we defeated dengue but we need to work hard towards it. Unlike other cities, Delhi never started from zero. From the very beginning, in March, Delhi witnessed a lot of people arriving from countries which were already severely affected by Covid-19 – Italy, France, UK. Around 32,000 people arrived in the city at a time when the testing facility was not adequate and they spread across the city. In our fight against Covid-19, we need to keep such things in mind,” said Kejriwal.Delhi on Thursday recorded 6,715 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total number recorded till date to 416,653. As many as 371,155 people have recovered from the disease and 6,769 have died of it. The city, on Thursday, also recorded a positivity rate of 12.84% -- up from an average of 5.3% recorded for the week ending October 8.The chief minister also highlighted the air pollution problem in Delhi during the winters and the role of crop stubble burning in neighbouring states. He said, “All states will now have to adopt decomposer technology like Delhi has done this year and distribute among farmers. If they need help, we are ready to provide them with stubble decomposer capsules.” The air quality in Delhi remained in the “very poor” category on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-doesn-t-discriminate-please-wear-masks-urges-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal/story-Mihm4PXFtvnsljvf8MNELM.html
06-11-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM’s son Raninder does not appear before ED again, seeks adjournment on health grounds||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s son Raninder Singh, who is also the president of the National Rifle Association of India, did not appear before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) at its zonal office in Jalandhar on Friday for the second time and sought adjournment in the matter on health grounds. The ED had summoned Raninder in an ongoing probe into an illegal foreign funds case. Raninder’s lawyer Jaiveer Shergill said: “My client, Raninder Singh, is suffering from high fever, cold and cough. He has given samples for RT-PCR Covid test, the report of which is awaited. A team of doctors led by the Mohali medical officer has advised him 14 days’ quarantine. In view of the safety of everyone, my client has sought adjournment on health grounds.” Shergill is also the national spokesperson of the Congress. On October 26, Raninder Singh failed to appear before the ED, citing his requirement to be present before a parliamentary panel on Olympics in his capacity as the National Rifle Association of India president the same day. In August, the ED had filed three applications in a Ludhiana court for the inspection of new documents filed by the income tax department in the cases against the chief minister and his son. The matter is pending with the district and sessions court in Ludhiana. In July 2016, Raninder had appeared before the ED in the case and said he had nothing to hide. ACTION UNDER FEMA ON I-T DEPT COMPLAINT The central agency initiated action against Raninder under the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA) after the income tax department filed a complaint in a Ludhiana court, saying he had lied under oath about trusts owned by him in Virgin Islands. In 2016, Raninder was summoned by the ED in connection with a FEMA violation. The I-T department said that Raninder misguided the agency by claiming that he did have documents related to the family’s income and trusts abroad. The I-T department alleged that Raninder was a ‘settler’ of Jacaranda Trust, which the family formed. Other undisclosed trusts include Mulwala Holdings Limited and Allworth Venture Holding Limited. Capt Amarinder Singh and Raninder also allegedly carried out ‘undisclosed’ financial transactions through a bank account in HSBC, Geneva, and HSBC Financial Services Limited (Middle East), the department said. The I-T department said the trusts were established in 2005 and most of the deals were routed through Virgin Islands. The agency submitted in the court that it has documents sourced from Virgin Islands that show Captain Amarinder Singh and his son Raninder as owners of Marine Mansions in Dubai and other properties in the United Kingdom. Both Amarinder and Raninder have denied any wrongdoing and termed the charges false.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-cm-s-son-raninder-does-not-appear-before-ed-again-seeks-adjournment-on-health-grounds/story-oCfJ3MUaNno9re4uBJcd7O.html
06-11-2020||Kolkata||Vegetable price rise: Kolkata police raid markets to check hoarding||A day after West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee lashed out at the Centre over skyrocketing vegetable prices, the Kolkata police stepped up vigil in markets across the city to check hoarding of potatoes and onions. Banerjee on Thursday said she would write to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to control the price of potatoes and onions which have gone through the roof in the festive season. “Prices of potato and onion have shot up alarmingly. I would write a letter to the Prime Minister to either give us the powers to control the prices or the Centre should control them. The new Act has snatched the state’s powers. It is unfortunate and alarming that the neither the Centre is being able to manage the prices nor is it allowing the state to do so,” Banerjee said on Thursday. Also read | West Bengal local train services to resume service from November 11Parliament in September passed the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act to deregulate commodities such as cereals, pulses, oilseeds, edible oils, onion and potatoes. The chief minister has asked the police to check whether a section of traders were hoarding vegetables which could have led to their spike in prices. On Friday, four teams of the police’s enforcement branch started inspecting markets.While the price of potatoes in the local markets has touched Rs40 per kilo, onion is selling at Rs80 per kilo. The potato prices range from around Rs20-25 per kilo, while the prices of onions vary between Rs 40 and Rs 45 per kilo. “Even though inspection of markets is a round the year process, we have stepped up our vigil to check any kind of hoarding which may lead to price rise,” said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/vegetable-price-rise-kolkata-police-raid-markets-to-check-hoarding/story-wMtwp7kqwq8qi2ymPdrc8H.html
06-11-2020||City||UP to roll out uniform online mutation of properties soon||The urban development department in Uttar Pradesh (UP) is giving final touches to the much-delayed plan to have a uniform process of online mutation of properties in the country’s most -populous state. Mutation of a property is done to change or transfer the title entry in revenue records of a local civic body.In the first phase, the work is likely to start by next week in 17 municipal corporations and 60 Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT)-designated towns in the state, officials said. Gradually, the process would be rolled out across all 707 local bodies in the state, they added. Also read | UP sanctions 30-day ad hoc bonus for employeesPrime Minister Narendra Modi had launched the AMRUT scheme in 2015 in a bid to put in place a mechanism for robust infrastructure, including sewage and water supply networks, in cities covered under the initiative. The online mutation exercise seeks to help the public cut through a maze of bureaucratic red tape and promises a transparent process.Online mutation is also a part of ease of doing business to encourage industries and investments in the state and a government order to this effect has been issued by Deepak Kumar, principal secretary, urban development, UP.At present, the state government charges variable mutation fees. However, plans are afoot to make it uniform. “For instance, in Lucknow, the mutation fee is 1% of the property’s registration cost. In some other local bodies, the fee is slab-based. We plan to make the exercise uniform. A committee has been set up for this purpose,” said an official from the state’s urban development department. Though the implantation of the uniform fee process is likely to take time, online mutation would be done within the next 45 days, he said.“The online mutation process has several benefits such as an increase in the state government’s revenue collection coupled with transparency,” he said“There has been an inordinate delay in the implementation of the online mutual process. However, efforts are in progress to implement it in all 707 local bodies in UP by the end of this year,” he said.“The implementation of online mutation will help connect all 707 local bodies in UP to a common server. This will also help the government to keep a tab on the revenue generated through mutation of properties after the service goes 100% digital,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-to-roll-out-uniform-online-mutation-of-properties-soon/story-s2hFSyQSfuikh39QXEHjpK.html
06-11-2020||Lucknow||UP sanctions 30-day ad hoc bonus for employees||The Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday sanctioned ad hoc bonus for its nearly 1.5 million employees. A government spokesman said the employees would get a maximum of Rs7,000 each as bonus and it would cost Rs1,022.75 crore to the state exchequer. While 75% of the bonus would be deposited into the provident fund accounts, the remaining 25% would be given in cash.Daily wagers, teachers and non-teaching staff in aided educational institutions will also get the bonus.Uttar Pradesh Secretariat Employees’ Union president Yadvendra Mishra said they hoped the bonus will be given fully in cash as the government has frozen the dearness allowance. “But we welcome the state government’s decision.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-sanctions-30-day-ad-hoc-bonus-for-employees/story-yrkWYomYOU1dSfa0aV92QP.html
06-11-2020||Chandigarh||Dinkar Gupta to continue as Punjab Police chief, HC sets aside CAT order||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday allowed the petitions of the state government and the director general of police (DGP), Dinkar Gupta, challenging the central administrative tribunal (CAT) order that set aside his appointment as the Punjab Police chief. A 1987-batch Indian Police Service (IPS) officer, Gupta superseded five officers to be named the state police chief on February 7, 2019. IPS officers Mohammad Mustafa and Siddharth Chattopadhyaya challenged Gupta’s appointment, saying they were ignored despite being senior and having an outstanding service record. The other officers superseded were Hardeep Dhillon, Jasminder Singh and Samant Goel. “Our petitions have been allowed by the high court. A detailed order is awaited,” Punjab advocate general, Atul Nanda said. In January, the CAT quashed Gupta’s appointment, observing that the procedure adopted by the empanelment committee and Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) for preparing the panel violated the Supreme Court judgment in the Prakash Singh case. In high court, the state government had allayed fears of mala fide and defended the criterion adopted by the state and the UPSC. The UPSC submitted that all eligible officers are considered and state governments are mandatorily asked to forward the list of eligible officers and their documents. The UPSC takes into account the range of experience, service record and length of service while making recommendations, it had told court. Mustafa and Chattopadhyaya submitted that detailed information was not available for assessing the panel sent by Punjab on the range of experience and that the number of officers placed in the panel of eligible officers was in violation of department of personnel and training guidelines. Chattopadhyaya had even raised questions over the preparation of assessment sheets of the officers, which were considered by the UPSC before making the recommendation to the state. After hearing all parties, the high court bench of justice Jaswant Singh and justice Sant Parkash reserved the order on September 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dinkar-gupta-to-continue-as-punjab-police-chief-hc-sets-aside-cat-order/story-i1ulgKGqTgYg1KSKT77a2M.html
06-11-2020||City||Cash-strapped Sabarimala to start express ‘prasad’ delivery||Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB), which runs Kerala’s Sabarimala Temple, has said devotees can book the shrine’s prasad online beginning Friday for home deliveries by post. The prasad will be priced Rs450 and include aravan payasam (pudding), holy ash, sandal paste, turmeric powder, and flowers. The deliveries will begin from November 16 when the temple will open for its three-month-long seasonal pilgrimage.TDB officials said through home delivery of prasad, they expect to make up for the financial losses the temple has suffered due to the Covid-19 pandemic.An India Post official said prasad packets will be given special preference and will be delivered through speed post.The government has allowed 1,000 pilgrims to visit the shrine daily during the pilgrimage season but TDB officials said they will not be enough to make up for the losses. It turned down TDB’s request to increase the number of pilgrims.Kerala reported a high positivity rate of 11.11% as of Thursday against the national average of 6% and 84,087 active Covid-19 cases.TDB chairman N Vasu said they hope the online delivery of prasad will help them tide over the financial crisis. “We have already made elaborate arrangements for packing...” He added the prasad will be delivered in Kerala in two days and in up to seven days elsewhere.The shrine was opened for the monthly puja last month with strict restrictions in place. Though 250 pilgrims were allowed per day, the footfall was very low.The temple was closed for devotees on March 18, a week before the first Covid-19 lockdown came into force.The revenue generated from Sabarimala is used to fund smaller temples and to pay salaries of TDS’s 3500-odd employees.During the last pilgrimage season from November 2019 to January, the temple earned Rs263. 57 crore. Aravana payasam, which is made of rice, jaggery, ghee and cardamom, accounts for the temple’s 60% revenue.Pilgrims from five south Indian states mostly throng the temple nestled in Western Ghats in Pathanamitta district during the annual season. At the peak of season, at least 500,000 devotees would visit the shrine daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cash-strapped-sabarimala-to-start-express-prasad-delivery/story-WHtoO7nUPGU2gJhjn3XH5J.html
06-11-2020||City||Hathras case: Indicate time needed to complete probe, Allahabad high court tells CBI||The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court (HC) has ordered the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to indicate how much time it would take to investigate the Hathras gangrape and murder case. The CBI is expected to file the status report on the case before the next date of hearing on November 25. The court has also made the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) a party in the case. The director-general (D-G) of CRPF has been directed to file an affidavit “through a responsible officer indicating the nature of security provided to the victim’s family members” by November 25. CRPF personnel is providing security to the deceased victim’s family as per the Supreme Court’s (SC) order. A two-member HC division bench, comprising Justices Pankaj Mithal and Rajan Roy, had reserved the order after hearing of the case on November 2. The order was uploaded on Thursday evening.Also read | Hathras victim’s family should be provided permanent accommodation in Delhi: Lawyer Earlier during the hearing on November 2, the court had asked advocate SV Raju, additional solicitor-general (ASG) of India, who appeared on behalf of the CBI, whether it was fair and reasonable to allow the district magistrate (DM) of Hathras, Praveen Kumar Laxkar, to continue at his current post during pendency of the investigation. Raju assured the court that he would convey the court’s concern to the Yogi Adityanath-led Uttar Pradesh (UP) government and apprise it on November 25. The court also ordered to delete the names of the victim’s family members from its earlier order. On September 14, a Dalit teenager (19) from western UP’s Hathras district was allegedly gang-raped by four upper-caste men, when she had gone out to collect fodder for cattle in her native village, Boolgarhi. She was partially paralysed following the sexual assault. She was shifted to Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi on September 28, as her health condition had worsened. She died in the early hours on September 29. At 2.30 am on September 30, UP Police forcibly cremated her without the family’s consent in a field near Boolgarhi. Hathras district police administration had insisted that the cremation was carried out “as per the wishes of her family members”. On October 12, the Lucknow bench of Allahabad HC had criticised the UP government’s decision to forcibly cremate the victim. So far, UP Police has arrested four upper-caste men -- Sandeep Singh, Ravi, Ramu and Luvkush Sikarwar – for their alleged role in the incident. The accused are lodged in Delhi’s Alipur jail. The SC had directed the Allahabad HC to monitor the CBI probe in the Hathras case. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hathras-case-indicate-time-needed-to-complete-probe-allahabad-high-court-tells-cbi/story-CbOpIwI5yG5pBBuWm73p6L.html
06-11-2020||City||Bengal: Local train services to resume service from November 11||Local train services in West Bengal will resume from November 11 after a gap of more than seven months, top officials of the state government said. “Railways will resume suburban services in West Bengal from November 11. With adequate safety measures in place, this will facilitate smooth travel for people,” railway minister Piyush Goyal tweeted on Thursday evening. Massive protests have been going on at various stations across the state for resumption of the local train services over the past few days. Commuters have been blocking railway tracks; in some places, security personnel had to resort to lathi charge to disperse angry passengers who tried to forcefully enter stations. Also read | Maharashtra allows cinema halls, multiplexes to reopen at 50% capacity“As of now, it has been decided that 181 pairs of local trains would be operated. While 114 pairs would run in the Sealdah division, 50 pairs would run in the Howrah division. In the Kharagpur division, 17 pairs would be operated,” said a senior state government official after a meeting with railway officials on Thursday. Local suburban trains connect Kolkata and Howrah with the villages and towns of the adjoining districts and form a major lifeline for the people coming to Kolkata for work every day. Howrah and Sealdah stations cater to more than two million passengers every day. “The railways would be coming up with a standard operating procedure by coming Monday (November 9) on how the trains would be operated from Wednesday. Around 600 passengers, which is around half of the seating capacity, would be allowed in one train. The SoP would try to strike a balance between the number of trains that would run during office-hours and those during the non-peak hours,” said a senior official. It was on March 22 that the local trains had last operated. While the Kolkata Metro and flight services have already resumed, the railways was running only some special trains for their railway staff to join duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengal-local-train-services-to-resume-service-from-november-11/story-2Jo94pilo4DZxqF6T4AiAJ.html
06-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s minimum temperature dips marginally; expect a foggy Friday||Friday is expected to be a foggy day in Delhi with the minimum temperature locking at 11 degree Celsius, close to Thursday’s 11.2 degree Celsius -- which was four notches below normal. The maximum temperature is expected to be 31 degree Celsius, a little higher than Thursday’s 30.7 degree Celsius.Delhi’s minimum temperature, recorded at the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official reading for the city, has been around 10-11 degree Celsius this week. The air quality in the national Capital was still in the very poor category on Friday morning, a day after it plunged to the severe category and the Delhi government banned firecrackers to combat pollution and the Covid-19 crisis. As per the data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the Air Quality Index value at 7am stood at 399.Also read | As pollution rises, CPCB advises offices to reduce vehicle useAir quality enters the very poor zone between 301-400 mark and crosses over to the severe zone after exceeding 400, causing distress and respiratory illnesses, especially in children and those exposed to the bad air. All 36 monitoring stations in Delhi recorded air quality in the “severe” category on Thursday. The AQI in Ghaziabad was 464, Greater Noida 457, Noida 450, Gurugram 443, and Faridabad 436.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that while the weather did play a spoiler for Delhi, local pollution sources also acted up, pushing pollution levels to severe category on Thursday. In a meeting with the CPCB task force, the IMD said that the primary pollutant in Delhi’s air on Thursday was PM10 (coarse particulate matter), which is primarily dust.Stubble fires also contributed to 42% — the highest so far this season — of Delhi’s PM 2.5 load on Thursday, according to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) under Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology.The meteorological conditions also resulted in worsening the situation since Wednesday. “There are two things that are happening together. North-westerly winds are bringing pollutants and wind speed has reduced. On Wednesday night and early morning Thursday, winds were calm so pollutants remained trapped close to the surface. After 9.30am, winds picked up for some time before calming again in the evening. We are not expecting a change in wind direction before November 10, when it may gradually shift to easterly, but during the transition of wind direction, wind speed usually falls, which can lead to further aggravation of air pollution,” explained Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-minimum-temperature-dips-marginally-expect-a-foggy-friday/story-08qx6UcZ6yXM0QryHWS1HM.html
06-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality continues to hover around ‘severe’ category||The air quality index (AQI) of the national capital improved marginally on Friday morning, as compared to the previous evening, but continued to hover around the “severe” category.An AQI between 401 and 500 is considered to be “severe” and between 301 and 400 belongs to the “very poor” category. The AQI recorded on Friday morning bordered around 400, while that of Thursday evening was 450, which was in the “severe” category.An AQI above 400 can affect healthy people and seriously impact those with existing diseases, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).Also read | As pollution rises, CPCB advises offices to reduce vehicle useOn Wednesday, a layer of smoke and pollutants had built up over Delhi-national capital region (NCR) due to thousands of stubble fires raging in neighbouring Punjab and local emissions such as traffic and fire crackers. The layer had built up because wind speed had reduced significantly restricting dispersal of pollutants. Similar conditions persisted on Thursday, but the visibility had improved marginally because of a wind speed of around 8 kilometres per hour (kmph). However, the layer of smog settled back in the evening after the wind speed dipped. Stubble fires contributed to 42% of Delhi’s particulate matter (PM 2.5) load on Thursday, which was the highest this season, according to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research under Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM), a Pune-based scientific institution.“There are two things that are occurring simultaneously. North-westerly winds are bringing pollutants, while wind speed has vastly reduced. On Wednesday night and Thursday early morning, the wind was calm. As a result, pollutants remained trapped close to the surface. On Thursday morning, the wind speed picked up after 9:30 am for a while, but became calm by the evening. We are not expecting a change in wind direction before November 10, when it may gradually shift to easterly. However, during the transition of wind direction, usually wind speed falls, which may further worsen the air quality in Delhi-NCR and other towns in north-west India,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.Other towns in north-west India such as Bahadurgarh, Bulandshahr, Ghaziabad, Greater Noida, Kanpur, Moradabad and Lucknow also recorded AQI in the “severe” category.The minimum temperature recorded in Delhi till 6:30 am on Friday was 11.9 degrees Celsius (C), 3 degrees C below normal. The minimum temperature will be updated again at 8:30 am.In Delhi-NCR, the bursting of firecrackers has gone up because of the upcoming festival of Diwali, which will be celebrated on November 14. However, the Delhi government has announced a ban on fire crackers this Diwali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-air-quality-continues-to-hover-around-severe-category/story-GPrzEONqjy8mMX3i5rRuDP.html
06-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana reserves 75% private jobs for state’s residents||The Haryana Assembly on Thursday passed a bill to give 75% reservation in the private sector to job seekers from the state, amid strong objections by Congress and Jannayak Janata Party MLAs. The Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Bill, 2020 – moved by deputy chief minister and JJP leader Dushyant Chautala -- aims to provide 75 % of the new employment to local candidates for jobs having salary of less than Rs 50,000 per month in privately-owned companies, societies, trusts, limited liability partnership firms, partnership firms etc. situated in Haryana.Chautala tweeted that the promise made to the state’s youth now stood fulfilled. “Today our promise to lakhs of youth of Haryana has been fulfilled and now Haryanvi youth will have 75 per cent of jobs in the private sector,” he said.Only 10 per cent of the recruitment by a company needs to be from the district in which it is located – the rest of the quota can be filled from other districts in the state. The quota will initially apply for 10 years, according to the bill which now needs the assent of the state governor to become law.Giving 75 per cent reservation in private sector jobs was a key poll promise made by Chautala’s JJP, which is the Bharatiya Janata Party’s coalition partner in the state.Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the bill would go a long way in providing employment to local youth.Opposing the bill, JJP MLA from Narnaund Ram Kumar Gautam said that the proposed law was divisive. “This is a free country and we are one. We do not want divisions. People from Haryana have the freedom to work anywhere in the country and so have the people from Bihar or Maharashtra or any other state. Biharis contribute a lot as far as our farming is concerned. How can we stop them from gaining employment in Haryana? This is a behuda (inane) Bill,” Gautam said. Congress’s Rohtak MLA BB Batra also said that the bill was discriminatory. “The BJP talks of one nation and here is a Bill which is patently discriminatory and divisive. A similar law enacted by Andhra Pradesh has also been challenged in the high court and will be struck down. This Bill is also unconstitutional and will be struck down by the courts,” Batra said. Senior Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda objected to the option with companies to recruit only 10 per cent of their employees from one district. “The discretion given to the employer to pick a maximum 10% local candidates from a district should be done away with,’’ Hooda said. Another MLA from the Congress, Neeraj Sharma, also called the 10% restriction unfair. “People of Faridabad have given their agricultural land to set up industries and they also bore the harmful effects of industrialization. So why there should be a 10% cap on employing them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-reserves-75-private-jobs-for-state-s-residents/story-kqJzqEUnyLR78rCMx1wQwN.html
06-11-2020||Chandigarh||Logjam in Haryana assembly over resolution thanking Centre for farm laws||Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s resolution to thank the BJP-led central government for the “landmark farm laws” brought proceedings in the Haryana assembly to a halt on Friday afternoon with the opposition Congress demanding voting before a discussion on the resolution. Turning down the Congress demand for voting on the resolution, Speaker Gian Chand Gupta said: “How can there be voting before a discussion?” The House was adjourned for half an hour soon after Khattar moved the resolution at 1.30pm, welcoming the three recent farm laws of the Centre but this did not go down well with the Congress. Its members didn’t let the House function or hold a debate. The debate on the resolution was yet to start till 4pm. The Congress, which was demanding voting first on the resolution, forced two adjournments and walked out of the assembly earlier in the morning after Question Hour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/logjam-in-haryana-assembly-over-resolution-thanking-centre-for-farm-laws/story-UAM1G2hOkona1XihyFvJoJ.html
06-11-2020||Kolkata||BJP must win 200 seats: Amit Shah sets Bengal target||The Bharatiya Janata Party should win over 200 of the 294 seats in the West Bengal assembly elections due early next year, Union home minister Amit Shah said at a meeting of local leaders in Bankura on Thursday. “The death knell of the Mamata Banerjee government has been sounded,” Shah said at the closed-door meeting attended by leaders from 13 districts. The senior BJP leader is on a two-day visit to the state to devise the party’s strategy for the upcoming elections. Addressing mediapersons after the meeting, the Union minister targeted chief minister Mamata Banerjee for “neglecting the poor, farmers, backward classes” in the state. “The Mamata Banerjee government has neglected the poor, the farmers, the backward classes and the tribal people and have oppressed BJP workers... I am confident that the BJP will come to power with two-third majority,” Shah said. He also urged the people to oust the Banerjee-led state government. “I appeal to the people to overthrow this government and give the BJP an opportunity to serve and build sonar Bangla (a golden Bengal),” Shah said. “You (Mamata Banerjee) are wrong if you think that you can stop the BJP by stopping central welfare schemes in West Bengal. If you let people enjoy the benefits of these schemes, they may at least spare some thoughts for you,” said Shah. Shah accused the state police of not cooperating with the Border Security Force for the rise in crime along the India-Bangladesh border, while skirting questions on the imposition of President’s rule in Bengal as demanded by some BJP leaders. He did not respond to questions on whether the BJP will project a chief ministerial candidate in the elections or not.Following the meeting with the local leaders, the former BJP president travelled to Chaturdihi village with BJP state president Dilip Ghosh, national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, national secretary Arvind Menon, national vice-president Mukul Roy and other leaders to have lunch at the home of Bibhishan Hansda, a member of the local tribal community. Shah stressed on the need to ensure that outreach programmes ahead of the elections translate into votes and did not remain a mere public relations exercise, leaders present at the meeting said. Reacting to Shah’s statements, Banerjee said that her party will not tolerate politics of threat. “We will not tolerate the politics of threat. They use central probe agencies to keep people under pressure. Everybody should stay within limits. People of Bengal will not accept outsiders,” Banerjee said at an administrative meeting in Kolkata.Expressing displeasure over the crowd seen at Shah’s meeting, Banerjee said, “A party is spreading the pandemic while common people are following Covid-19 health restrictions.” “Amit Shah’s ambition of winning 200 assembly seats will remain a dream. Let BJP first find an acceptable face of its state leadership before contesting the polls,” TMC Lok Sabha member and party spokesperson Saugata Roy said in Kolkata. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP won 18 of the state’s 42 seats and showed its best performance in Bankura district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bjp-must-win-200-seats-amit-shah-sets-bengal-target/story-YuKpSCsZk16yWQ9HIadKBK.html
06-11-2020||Delhi||Plan gone haywire, Delhi may soon be ‘coronavirus capital’: HC||The Delhi high court on Thursday criticised the city government saying it has gone “completely haywire” over its handling of the Covid-19 outbreak and that Delhi was on its way to become the “corona capital of the country”, as the third wave of infections in the city continued to create alarm.While new infections in the Capital have been rising at a steep rate, another worrying trend has emerged as deaths and hospitalisations have started rapidly climbing too. According to Thursday’s bulletin, 66 people lost their lives due to the viral infection — the highest single-day deaths in over four months. Delhi last recorded 66 deaths on June 27, at a time when treatment protocols for Covid-19 were still being assessed.“Delhi government has gone completely haywire on the pandemic and is soon going to become the corona capital of the country thanks to the number of cases shooting up. Many claims were made by the Delhi government that they are topping charts in testing, but the number of cases has overshot. The government has many answers to give us,” a bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad said on Thursday.Several indicators now reinforce the fact that Delhi is in the grip of its third and worst wave of infections yet. In the past week, there were 5,843 cases on average every day, the highest this number has been since the first case was recorded on March 2. Delhi now has 416,653 total infections and 6,769 deaths.The high court’s comments came during a hearing on a group of pleas relating to the disbursal of salaries to the employees and former employees of the various civic bodies.It said that the Delhi government has taken the health of citizens for a ride, a matter which would be dealt with separately on November 11 when the bench hears a plea by advocate Rakesh Malhotra, who had sought ramping up of tests in the city.Most of the new cases of Covid-19 are being reported from six districts – North, Central, North East, East, North West and South East – where the positivity rate stands between 12% and 14%, said Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan after a review of the situation in Delhi. “This time around, the cases are being reported from middle income neighbourhoods. These are people who stayed at home and remained in isolation during the lockdown,” said Dr Puneet Mishra, professor of community medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).Delhi’s average seven-day positivity rate currently stands at 11.5%, as against the national average of 4.3%. As on Thursday, there were over 38,000 people with active infections in the city. Of them, 7,231 patients were admitted to hospitals, the data shows. This is the highest hospitalisations at a given time the city has seen. Intensive care unit beds are running full in city hospitals, especially those at private hospitals. Over 73.5% of all the ICU beds earmarked for the treatment of Covid-19 in the city were occupied as on Thursday evening, according to the ‘Delhi Corona’ app.CM Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said the government is working on increasing oxygen and ICU beds, and has reached out to the Supreme Court to reserve ICU beds in private hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/plan-gone-haywire-city-may-soon-be-coronavirus-capital-delhi-hc/story-kyHOlIFGC6m3owcWpN9cHM.html
06-11-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Congress MPs, railway minister fail to end deadlock over resumption of train service||Railway minister Piyush Goyal and Congress MPs from Punjab on Thursday failed to come to an agreement over the resumption of train services in the state in the wake of the ongoing protests by the farmer unions against the Centre’s agriculture laws. The Congress’ Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha MPs met Goyal in two groups in New Delhi to press for immediate resumption of freight trains, but both sides stuck to their stated positions. Four Lok Sabha MPs – Gurjeet Singh Aujla, Santokh Singh Chaudhary, Ravneet Singh Bittu and Mohammad Sadique –left the meeting midway and later accused the Union minister of blaming the Punjab government for the protests against the farm laws, and ignoring the problems being faced by the state and its people despite the chief minister’s assurance on safety and security of trains and staff. Goyal, however, said the railways was keen on starting train services for the benefit of farmers, industry, general public and passengers. “Request state government to clear entire railway network from blockages so that we can run all trains, to and through Punjab, without interruption and safely (sic),” he tweeted after the meeting. The two sides though agreed to have the top officers of railways and the Punjab government to coordinate the efforts to clear the tracks and resume services at the earliest. The MPs, who had also sought time from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, will now meet Union home minister Amit Shah on November 7 over the impact of suspension of trains on supplies of coal, fertilisers and other essential goods, GST compensation and the Centre’s refusal to release rural development fund to the state. LACK OF COORDINATION AMONG CONGRESS MPsThe Congress MPs’ meetings with the railway minister brought out their lack of coordination to the fore. Rajya Sabha MPs Partap Singh Bajwa and Shamsher Singh Dullo, who were the first to meet Goyal, urged him to resume freight operations at the earliest otherwise the safety and security of Punjab as well as the armed forces and civilians living in Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh would be negatively impacted. As why he and Dullo went separately, Bajwa said they were not kept in the loop by the Lok Sabha MPs about their plans to meet Goyal. The two MPs have been critical of the CM in the past. Thereafter, the Lok Sabha MPs met the minister. Aujla said they explained the difficulties to Goyal but he was adamant that train services would not be resumed till all tracks were cleared. “The minister kept talking about the opposition in Punjab to farm laws and how there were no protests in other states. We told him that the CM (Amarinder Singh) has given a categorical assurance on his concerns regarding safety and security but he said railway officers will look at it,” the Amritsar MP said. Bittu and Aujla were the first to leave the meeting, and then Chaudhary and Sadique also joined them. The remaining four MPs – Preneet Kaur, Manish Tewari, Dr Amar Singh and Jasbir Singh Gill – continued the talks with the minister. Chaudhary said he told the minister about the losses, particularly finished goods worth Rs 2,400 crore that were lying in his constituency (Jalandhar) due to suspension of trains. “We had sought time from PM who has deputed the home minister to meet us,” he said. Fatehgarh Sahib MP Dr Amar Singh said the minister was informed about the efforts being made to get the farmers to clear the tracks and railway platforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-congress-mps-railway-minister-fail-to-end-deadlock-over-resumption-of-train-service/story-yBLv1HDhfTtLtYxVmqfUZK.html
06-11-2020||City||Ludhiana mayor reschedules MC house meet to November 10||Mayor Balkar Sandhu has rescheduled the general house meeting of Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) to November 10 from November 11. The mayor said that he has to attend a meeting with the local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra on November 11 and so he has decided to reschedule the MC house meeting to November 10. For maintaining social distancing, it has been decided that the meeting will be held at Rose Garden at 3 pm and the public will not be allowed to enter the area during the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mayor-reschedules-mc-house-meet-to-november-10/story-A62cvbdEiHF2HQJWkU5YhK.html
06-11-2020||City||Ludhiana: Truckers extend support to farmers||Extending support to the protesting farmers, the truckers union kept their vehicles off the road for four hours on Thursday and joined in the ‘Chakka jam’ at Transport Nagar and Sherpur Chowk.Long traffic jams were witnessed in the area even as the police created diversions for the movement of traffic. Protesting under the banner of ‘Ludhiana Goods Transport Association’, the truckers raised slogans against the Union government for a “step-motherly attitude with the state and its farmers”.Ludhiana goods transport association president Didar Singh said, “We have always stood by the farmers and will continue to extend support to them till the farm laws are rolled back or amended in favour of farmers. The trucks remained off road from noon till 4pm to mark the protest.”Meanwhile, commuters rued that the protesters should not harass the general public in their fight with the government.Gurpal Singh, a commuter said, “The protesters should not block the roads during protests as it leads to harassment of the public. The police and the administration make tall claims of stopping these kinds of protests in the city but action is taken only in selective cases while the public is left to suffer.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-truckers-extend-support-to-farmers/story-G1iV048bHZKyx4ACAOBezM.html
06-11-2020||City||Ludhiana halts for 4 hours as farmers stage chakka jam||With farmers laying siege onto the busy Ladhowal Toll Plaza on National Highway (NH-44), as part of the nationwide call for chakka jam against the newly introduced central farm laws, passengers had a harrowing time for over four hours on Thursday. The protest started around noon and lasted till 4pm. By 2pm, protestors from Phillaur and Nawanshahr came and joined the protesting farmers from Ludhiana, raising slogans against the central government and its new farm laws.Witnessing the massive rush, police started diverting the traffic, heading towards Sutlej Bridge (where the toll plaza is situated). However, many heavy vehicles drivers decided to park their trucks in the middle of the road and wait till the farmer unions lifted their protest.Farmers clear way for ambulances, army convoysThe farmers, however, made sure to not cause any inconvenience to ambulances and army convoys on the route, making way for them through the blockade. Repeated announcements were being made at the protest site to clear way for the emergency vehicles. Vikas, a Phagwara resident, who was on his way to visit his wife and newborn at a city hospital, was allowed easy passage. Harmeet Singh Kadian of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Kadian), who was leading the protest, said, “We are being projected as anti-national, being blamed for stopping train services and not letting toll authorities to collect money from commuters. But no one has paid attention to the fact that though we have been sitting on protest for the past 36 days, there has been no incident of violence and vandalism at any protest site.”Many commuters decided to walkA huge number of commuters, who were either travelling by bus or auto rickshaw, decided to walk to get to the other side of Sutlej Bridge in the hope of catching another mode of public transport from there.Rupinder Kaur from Phagwara, who was seen walking with her children, said, “The auto we were travelling in was not allowed to pass following which we decided to walk.”Masks given a go-byMeanwhile, hardly anyone at the protest site was seen wearing masks or observing social distancing. Many farmer leaders claimed that the government was deliberately projecting a second wave of Covid-19 to curtail farmer protests.PM’s ‘Swachh Bharat’ call finds takers Prime Minister’s (PM’s) slogan of Swachh Bharat was practically realised at the dhara site as hundreds of farmers were seen carefully discarding waste into garbage bins instead of littering. A farmer quipped, “We are judicious in our approach. PM Narendra Modi exhorted the people of the country to maintain hygiene and cleanliness and gave a slogan of Swachh Bharat. We followed his vision for a clean India but we are opposed to his farm laws.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-halts-for-4-hours-as-farmers-stage-chakka-jam/story-qtNdCwYMieA6HI9nyaTk9L.html
06-11-2020||City||Ludhiana: ‘Agitations to increase tension between industry and farmers’||Ludhiana: Already struggling due to suspension of trains due to the ‘Rail Roko’ agitations, industrialists across Ludhiana said that tensions between industrialists and farmers are set to increase if the protests go on. They rued that over 4,000 consignments are already stuck at the ports due to the rail roko agitation and Thursday’s agitation only added to their woes as they could not carry out inter-district dispatch of goods either.A section of the industry also urged farmers to take the fight to Delhi rather than damaging the economy of Punjab, adding that they will extend their support to the farmers if they do so. All Industries and Trade Forum president Badish Jindal said, “Farmers should understand that their agitation in the state is not affecting the Union government in any way. They are only damaging the economy of the state by becoming a hindrance to the industry’s operations. This will increase tension between the industry and farmers as the industry has been badly affected by these protests.”“The governments have also failed to resolve the issue and are doing petty politics. Lakhs of labourers are out of job as factories are being closed due to the shortage of raw material,” said Jindal, adding, “The farmers should march towards Delhi. We will support them then.”The industrialists said every industry – be it the bicycle industry, hosiery, auto parts, sewing machine or dyeing industry – has been affected by the farmers’ agitation. United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA) president DS Chawla said, “We are not against the farmers but they should also understand that we are suffering. Our consignments are stuck but we are not risking transporting the goods on trucks either as we fear damage on the way. We urge the farmers and the governments to resolve the matter at the earliest.”Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation president (FICO) Gurmeet Kular said, “Industrialists are being forced to shut down the factories as there is shortage of raw material. If this crisis continues, the industrialists and labourers will also be forced to take to roads.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-agitations-to-increase-tension-between-industry-and-farmers/story-IkF51ZNEEJ2Al9aZsI0IUI.html
06-11-2020||City||Only 60% residents in Ludhiana city wear masks, finds study||A study on ‘Public behaviour regarding effective mask usage in Ludhiana city, has revealed that only 60% of the total 35 lakh population in Ludhiana wear masks while the remaining either do not wear or wear it without covering their nose properly.The study was conducted jointly by a team of experts from Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) and Ludhiana police.DMCH senior cardiologist Dr Bishav Mohan, who presented the survey results, said that if 90% residents in the city start wearing masks properly, there were 80% chances to control the second wave of Covid-19, expected to arrive in mid-December.Dr Mohan added, “If we can encourage people at religious places, including temples, gurdwaras, church and mosques, and public places such as markets, railway station and bus stand, to wear masks, it would help in breaking the Covid-19 chain.”Administration officials claimed this was the biggest scientific survey on masks conducted in India by the administration and DMCH team, including Dr Bishav Mohan and Dr Sarit Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/only-60-residents-in-ludhiana-city-wear-masks-finds-study/story-o4VOk59heH1Id2mYS4dqvN.html
06-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi bans firecrackers as air quality is now ‘severe’||The Delhi government on Thursday banned the use of all firecrackers till November 30 as air pollution in the national capital soared to its worst level in a year, with a poisonous blanket of smog signalling how desperate measures taken over recent years to arrest the annual health emergency have failed to offer an effective solution.On Thursday, the average air quality index (AQI) was in the “severe” zone for the first time this season, just over a week before Diwali, a festival during which use of illegal firecrackers in the past has led to the crisis spiralling out of control. According to the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) 4pm bulletin, the average AQI for the 24-hour period since Wednesday was 450. The day before, it was 343. Air quality is considered “good” when AQI is lower than 50.The decision is likely to be a controversial one -- last year, many people burst crackers, mostly obtained illegally, in defiance of a court order that allowed only green crackers, which weren’t available in time.On Thursday, a day after several incidents of the use of firecrackers was reported, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic was deteriorating in the Capital due to rising air pollution and appealed to people to avoid using them. “If we burst firecrackers this Diwali, we are playing with the lives of our children and families...” he added.“Reviewed corona situation in Del n preparedness wid Chief Secy, Health officials and all DMs. Corona cases hv increased due to festival season n pollution. It was decided to... ban crackers in Del...,” Kejriwal later tweeted. The ban will remain in place from November 7 to November 30.Coincidentally, on November 4, a group of researchers from Harvard published a study showing a direct correlation between air pollution and Covid-19 mortality rates.With the complete ban, 800 open spaces where people were to be permitted to burn “green” firecrackers between 8pm and 10pm on Diwali will also not be allowed. A senior official of the Delhi government said that with the ban, all licenses that have been issued to firecracker traders will be cancelled. As per the Delhi government’s environment ministry, 93 traders across the national capital were granted licenses till November 4. With this announcement, Delhi joined states such as Rajasthan, Odisha and West Bengal in banning the use of firecrackers ahead of Diwali on November 14. Air quality typically worsens with approaching winter every year as farmers burn stubble, adding to toxic fumes from vehicles, dust from neighbouring regions, and unfavourable meteorological conditions in the region.The share of stubble burning in Delhi’s pollution rose to 42% on Thursday, the maximum so far this season, according to the central government’s air quality monitoring agency. Experts said raging farm fires, mostly in Punjab and Haryana, windless conditions and dipping temperature led to an alarming worsening of air quality.The ministry of earth sciences air quality monitor, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), said the farm fire count in Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and neighbouring areas increased significantly, and stood at 4,135 on Wednesday, the highest this season so far. It said the boundary layer wind direction is north-westerly – favourable for carrying pollutants from farm fires into the national Capital. “The share of stubble burning in Delhi’s PM2.5 pollution was estimated at 42% for Thursday,” SAFAR added.Stubble burning accounted for 5% of Delhi’s pollution on Wednesday, 10% on Tuesday, 16% on Monday and 40% on Sunday. Last year, the contribution from stubble fires to Delhi’s air pollution peaked on October 31, when the figure was 44%, according to CPCB. Diwali was celebrated on October 27 in 2019, leading to an overlap and very high air pollution levels.All 36 monitoring stations in Delhi recorded air quality in the “severe” category on Thursday. The AQI in Ghaziabad was 464, Greater Noida 457, Noida 450, Gurugram 443, and Faridabad 436.On Thursday morning, visibility improved marginally from the previous evening as winds picked up to about 8kmph, but by the evening, the layer of toxic smog hung strongly over Delhi.The PM2.5 (fine, respirable pollution particles) concentration spiked to about 360 micrograms per cubic metres, six times the national safe standard and 36 times the World Health Organization’s safe levels. The PM10 level stood at 561 microgram per cubic meters at 10am – the highest since November 15 last year, when it was 637 µg/m3, according to CPCB data. PM10 levels below 100 µg/m3 are considered safe in India. These particles include dust, pollen and mold spores. “Severe” category air affects healthy people and seriously impacts those with existing diseases.According to leaders of farmers’ groups, stubble fires are likely to continue for one more week. “Harvesting did start four days early this year but it’s not over yet. They (the fires) are extremely high in number and widespread. This is because farmers are extremely agitated with the farm bills. There is high pollution in Punjab also because of farm fires,” said Harinder Singh Lakhowal, Bharatiya Kisan Union president, Punjab. His reference is to the three farm reform bills that farmers in many states, including Punjab, are protesting. Worried about offending farmers, who are already up in arms, there’s been little action against them for the fires this year. Scientists said very high contribution from farm fires and local emissions contributed to a build-up of PM 2.5 concentrations. “There were about 5,000 stubble fires yesterday. This together with slow wind and subsidence of air led to unexpectedly high levels of air pollution in Delhi. Local emissions from fire crackers and traffic also added to the build-up. Today again we are seeing around 4,000 fire counts,” said Vijay Soni, scientist, India Meteorological Department, air quality division.Punjab has recorded a higher number of stubble fires this year so far compared to last year, according to data available with the ministry of earth sciences. Last year, between September 20 and November 3, there were 33,500 fire points recorded in the state. During the same period, 39,000 fire points have been recorded this year. The meteorological conditions also resulted in the worsening of the situation since Wednesday. “There are two things that are happening together. North-westerly winds are bringing pollutants and wind speed has reduced. On Wednesday night and early morning Thursday, winds were calm so pollutants remained trapped close to the surface. After 9.30am, winds picked up for some time before calming again in the evening. We are not expecting a change in wind direction before November 10, when it may gradually shift to easterly, but during the transition of wind direction, wind speed usually falls, which can lead to further aggravation of air pollution,” explained Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.Shrivastava said the maximum temperature in the Capital began falling since Wednesday as the smog-like situation blocked the sun.Pallavi Pant, scientist at the US-based Health Effects Institute, said: “We know that long-term exposure to air pollution can cause many of the health conditions associated with increased vulnerability to Covid-19. Air pollution can also trigger inflammatory response which can make it easier for an individual to catch a respiratory infection. Although there are no analyses from India yet, several early studies are now showing higher risk Covid-19 related infections and deaths in areas with high air pollution. In northern India, as air pollution levels rise during the winter, it will be important to stay alert.”Saurabh Gandhi, general secretary, United Residents of Delhi, an umbrella body of more than 1,800 resident welfare associations (RWA), said: “The air pollution in Delhi is at pathetic levels. So, this (cracker ban) is a good step. However, the government must also crackdown on violations in construction sites, increase the area covered under mechanical sweeping of roads and conduct a fresh review of polluting industries.” Criticising the Delhi government’s decision to ban firecrackers, including green crackers, the Bharatiya Janata Party said the government is looking at temporary solutions.“The decision to ban firecrackers during Diwali and impose a fine of Rs 1 lakh is wrong. You have hurt the religious sentiments of the people of Delhi,” Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-bans-firecrackers-as-air-quality-is-now-severe/story-yzlzGTHZnCBuavYfMlpO4M.html
06-11-2020||City||Active cases in Ludhiana cross 500-mark for first time in 26 days||The number of active Covid-19 cases in Ludhiana crossed the 500-mark for the first time in 26 days on Thursday. With 510 active cases, two deaths due to the virus were reported in the last 24 hours and 65 positive cases were detected. The two deceased include two men, aged 67 and 49, who are residents of Fateh Singh Nagar and Field Ganj respectively.The number of active cases had last touched 500 on October 9 when 587 active cases were reported. Following this day, there had been a steady decline in every day cases, with active cases falling to even 207 on October 26, which was the lowest figure since July.The number of active cases had been steadily rising in the months of August and September as well when the number had even crossed 2,000-mark on several days.According to CII chairman Rahul Ahuja, “The worry is that a stronger corona wave is going to hit the state shortly. We have been casual all this while. It is high time to take precautions and save ourselves, our loved ones and our businesses.”Ludhiana’s Covid tally has now touched 20,585 cases, with a recovery rate of 93.4 percent.As many as 1, 017 patients are under home quarantine while 67 were sent for home quarantine today.Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to the residents to follow all directions of Punjab government and stay indoors as much as possible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/active-cases-in-ludhiana-cross-500-mark-for-first-time-in-26-days/story-SX620rFpluURJbPEcHcMyJ.html
06-11-2020||Chandigarh||Soon, homestays to come up in Morni||Haryana education and tourism minister Kanwar Pal on Thursday announced that the state government was planning to introduce a ‘home stay’ scheme for the promotion of tourism in the hilly Morni area in Kalka assembly segment. He said the Himachal government had started a ‘home stay’ scheme, under which any private house located in rural areas of the state in good condition and easily accessible will qualify under the scheme. Tourists can stay in units registered under the homestay policy. “After Shimla, Morni hills is the best tourism spot in the region...we are planning to start the home stay scheme in Morni on the lines of Himachal to promote tourism,” Kanwar Pal said in the Vidhan Sabha, responding to a question of Kalka MLA Pardeep Chaoudhary. The MLA wanted to know if there was any proposal to develop Morni as a tourist spot in Kalka constituency. The tourism minister said a proposal for paragliding was also under consideration. Kanwar Pal said a well-developed tourist complex, Mountain Quail, had been developed by the Haryana Tourism Corporation with facilities such as guest rooms, restaurants, lobbies, terraces and conference rooms. The minister added that the Tikkar Taal tourist complex had also been developed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/soon-homestays-to-come-up-in-morni/story-4ap00IWVqtGZp2X5T6Wj5N.html
06-11-2020||Chandigarh||Day after Karva Chauth, broken pots, diyas greet visitors at Sukhna||A day after Karwa Chauth, the Sukhna Lake was found littered with pots and diyas that were used for the rituals on Thursday morning right at the entrance.Yogesh Sharma and Shama Sharma, who regularly come for a walk here, pointed out how the pots could be seen lined up on the stone parapet at the entrance itself: “People should be allowed to celebrate the festival at the lake, however, they need to be responsible and should clean up after themselves rather than littering the lake.”Saying that this had become a yearly occurrence, local area councillor Maheshinder Singh Sidhu said, “It is up to people to not litter after themselves. The lake in Sector 42 has been specially made for religious ceremonies where people could have gone instead.” He added that a ban on Karwa Chauth festivities on the lake is also not possible as it will be hard for the authorities to monitor people bringing even a single diya to the lake.Part of the lake is looked after by Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Development Corporation Limited (CITCO) and part of the lake is maintained by the municipal corporation (MC). Chief general Manager (CGM) of CITCO Rakesh Kumar Popli said, “We had asked that the part of the lake in front of Chef Lakeview Hotel be cleaned before opening it in the morning.”MC medical officer of health (MOH) Dr Amritpal Warring added that sweepers had started cleaning the lake in the morning and by the afternoon it was all tidied up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/day-after-karva-chauth-broken-pots-diyas-greet-visitors-at-sukhna/story-kqQt8RKJmeOedzNFT93viJ.html
06-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s apni mandis: Tenders floated for sanitation, no call on resumption||The UT Market Committee has floated tenders for allocating sanitation work of the apni mandis/kisan mandis for the current financial year.The apni mandis are held in various sectors, though, in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic these have been suspended since March this year.The development comes after the municipal corporation General House passed a resolution on October 29, recommending resumption of the apni mandis.While in line with the central government directions, the lockdown restrictions have been removed and most commercial establishments have been allowed to open, the administration has yet to grant permission to resume apni mandis.MC councillors at the meeting had argued that small farmers and city residents were suffering in the absence of these weekly vegetable markets.They stated that while most of the businesses, including shopping malls, cinema halls and pubs, had been allowed to operate, apni mandis were still closed, making it impossible for small farmers to have access to buyers. Even city residents were being denied cheaper vegetables in the absence of these markets and vendors were continuing to overcharge them, the councillors had further argued.“The recommendation of the MC House has been communicated to the UT administration. The final decision will be taken by the administrator in the Covid-19 review meeting,” said KK Yadav, MC commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-apni-mandis-tenders-floated-for-sanitation-no-call-on-resumption/story-CvskE3o9FaA6moFLpf83oJ.html
06-11-2020||Chandigarh||After plateauing in September, Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh on the rise again||After a noticeable drop in infections in September, the tricity is once again witnessing a spurt in Covid-19 cases with over 200 cases each being reported on both Wednesday and Thursday.Not only the last week, even the number of cases over the past three weeks has been the highest in Chandigarh among the three cities. Data by the UT health department shows that from the 316 cases between October 16 and 20, the number rose to 444 in the next week (October 23 to 29) and further to 502 in the last seven days since October 30 – a spike of 113%. “This increase in cases can be attributed to the complacency on the part of residents, who are not following safety precautions, and the increased testing as well. On Wednesday, around 1,000 tests were conducted which returned 94 positive reports. The number of tests on Thursday was 1,500 and 96 people tested positive,” said UT health secretary Arun Kumar Gupta.“With more people thronging public spaces in view of various festivals, chances of the infection rate growing further are high. Hence, lowering our guard at this point is risky. Following precautions, such as wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and keeping hands sanitised, is crucial at this point in time,” said Dr VK Nagpal, joint director, health, Chandigarh. Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head of the community medicine department at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, said the first wave, which hit the region in September, did not have a widespread impact with respect to the proportion of population.“Most of the population was not exposed to the virus due to the restrictions in place. Now, when every aspect of the economy has opened and the festive season is bringing crowds to public places, the precautions are going for a toss and cases are bound to increase. If around 30% of the population was infected so far, the remaining will also pick the virus in due course of time if precautions are not followed,” Dr Kumar warned.In Panchkula, the cases have climbed from 150 between October 16 and 22 to 236 in the past week, while the number was 156 in the last week of October – a jump of 57% over the past three weeks.“Yes, there is a steady increase in cases. With increasing crowds in the markets, irresponsible behaviour of people towards Covid-19 and the upcoming cold weather, the second surge is inevitable,” said Dr Jasjeet Kaur, civil surgeon, Panchkula.Similarly, Mohali has also recorded a 53% surge in cases since October 16. From 268 infections between October 16 and October 22, it reported 409 cases in the last seven days and 312 cases in the week preceding these.However, the district’s civil surgeon Dr GB Singh said the cases being reported were scattered and there were no clusters. “Yet, residents should not be complacent with regards to the pandemic, as the threat still looms large. Adopting a careless attitude and not following precautions can be disastrous,” the civil surgeon warned.207 test positive in tricity, two dead A day after recording 203 cases after a considerable gap, the tricity reported another 207 Covid-19 infections on Thursday.Chandigarh led with the most cases at 96, followed by 61 in Mohali and 50 in Panchkula.Mohali and Panchkula also confirmed two Covid deaths, while there was no casualty in Chandigarh.With the fresh cases, Chandigarh’s case tally climbed to 14,794, of which 703 patients are still infected. A total of 60 patients were discharged on Thursday, increasing the number of recoveries to 13,862. As many as 229 people have succumbed to the virus in the city.In Mohali, the death toll rose to 242 with one more person losing the battle to Covid-19. Besides, the 61 new cases took the case tally to 12,659. As many as 49 cases were reported from Mohali urban, eight from Kharar, three from Dhakoli and one from Dera Bassi. Also, 39 patients recovered from the disease, bringing down the number of active patients to 594, while the recoveries increased to 11,823. A 45-year-old man from Devinagar, who also had liver cirrhosis, died in Panchkula, taking the district’s death toll to 117. Panchkula’s case tally stands at 7,314, of which 6,939 patients have been cured, leaving 258 active cases. Among the new cases on Thursday, 38 were reported from Panchkula urban, five from Pinjore, three from Kalka and one each from Hangola, Marranwala, Morni and Nanakpur.Five residential areas sealed in ChandigarhThe Chandigarh administration on Thursday declared five new micro-containment zones in the city. The affected areas are House Number 1185 to 1198 and 3556 to 3561 in Sector 23; House Number 3514 to 3521 in Sector 38-D; House Number 5571 to 5579 in Sector 38 West; House Number 257 to 264 in Sector 41-A and House Number 278 to 283 in 45-A.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/after-plateauing-in-september-covid-19-cases-in-chandigarh-on-the-rise-again/story-SpQJJ4B8T3GcbQoLDCOBjP.html
06-11-2020||Chandigarh||2008 UT employees housing scheme: HC seeks status report from Chandigarh admn||The Punjab and Haryana high court has asked the Chandigarh administration to submit a report on the progress made in the 2008 housing scheme for UT employees.In March this year, the court had directed the Centre, UT and the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) to convene a meeting and take a decision on the scheme. However, due to the Covid-19 outbreak, it got delayed and was held in August. Now, two weeks have been given to the administration to file the status report.The court acted on a fresh application by the employees, seeking an update on progress in the scheme. The petitioners are demanding that flats be allotted at the same rates as asked for in 2008, within a time-bound frame. Now, the cost estimated by CHB has increased 5-10 fold. The housing scheme for administration employees was launched in February 2008. The draw of lots was also held in November 2010. But 3,930 employees, who were declared successful, have yet to get possession. The 3-BHK and 2-BHK flats are to come up in Sector 52 on 61 acres. The employees have opposed UT’s decision due to which the flats’ cost has gone up from the earlier Rs 34.7 lakh to Rs 1.76 crore in the case of 3-BHK, Rs 1.35 crore from Rs 24.3 lakh in the case of 2-BHK. Also, 1-BHK will cost Rs 99 lakh instead of Rs 13.5 lakh.At the August 19 meeting between MHA and UT officials, it was decided that the calculation of rates be made again for different categories by applying various factors like floor area ratio, collector rate, plotted area etc., in consultation with the representatives of the petitioners. Following this, CHB had planned to offer a 10-storey or seven-storey housing option to reduce the rates of flats, but this could meet with legal hurdles, as high rise buildings are not permissible in Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2008-ut-employees-housing-scheme-hc-seeks-status-report-from-chandigarh-admn/story-wiK6pq91A4yrd1wrck8x6K.html
06-11-2020||City||Ludhiana MC chief inspects ongoing works under Smart City project||To give a push to the ongoing development works under the Smart City project, municipal commissioner-cum-chief executive officer (CEO) of Ludhiana Smart City Limited (LSCL) Pardeep Sabharwal inspected ongoing projects on Thursday.He inspected projects including Sidhwan Canal waterfront development, construction of ROB/RUBs at Pakhowal road railway crossings and project to transform Malhar road into smart road. Sabharwal said that the staff and contractors have been directed to expedite the projects. Further instructions have also been issued to complete the projects within the set deadline. Member of Parliament (MP) Ravneet Bittu is also expected to review the ongoing projects in the coming days, said Sabharwal while adding that the projects are also being monitored by cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and mayor Balkar Sandhu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mc-chief-inspects-ongoing-works-under-smart-city-project/story-0KZOUI2Dz7qhZprXuFWPZL.html
06-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Assembly: Private sector quota Bill passed||The Haryana Assembly on Thursday passed a Bill to provide 75% reservation in private sector jobs to local people amid objections by Congress and JJP MLAs. The Bill that was moved by deputy chief minister and JJP leader Dushyant Chautala was vehemently opposed by his own party’s MLA from Narnaund Ram Kumar Gautam who termed the proposed law as ‘divisive, 100% wrong and inane’. The Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Bill, 2020, aims to provide 75% of new employment opportunities to local candidates for jobs with a salary below ₹50,000 per month in private companies, societies, trusts, limited liability partnership firms, and partnership firms, situated in Haryana. However, employers will also have the option of only recruiting 10% employees from a single district. The proposed law also contains an exemption clause in case suitable local candidates are not available for a particular category of industry. Criticising the Bill, JJP MLA Gautam, who has an acrimonious relationship with Dushyant, said: “ This is a free country and we are one. We do not want divisions. People from Haryana have the freedom to work anywhere in the country as do the people from Bihar, Maharashtra or any other state. Biharis contribute a lot as far as farming is concerned. How can we stop them from gaining employment in Haryana? This is a behuda (inane) Bill,” Gautam said. Congress MLA from Rohtak, BB Batra wondered how a chief minister of the BJP could allow such a Bill to be tabled in the Assembly. “The BJP talks of one nation and here is a Bill that is patently discriminatory and divisive. A similar law enacted by Andhra Pradesh has also been challenged in the high court and will be struck down. This Bill is also unconstitutional and will be struck down by the courts,’’ Batra said. Leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda supported the private sector job quota but with a rider. “ The discretion given to the employer to pick a maximum 10% local candidates from a district should be done away with,’’ Hooda said. Congress MLA from Faridabad NIT Neeraj Sharma said the 10% recruitment restriction from one district was unfair. “People of Faridabad have given their agricultural land to set up industries. They also bore the harmful effects of industrialisation. So why should there be a 10% cap on employing them,’’ Sharma said. Batra, Sharma and another Congress MLA Dr Raghuvir Singh Kadian also pointed out that the Bill should have been handed over to MLAs five days before being tabled to help them study the provisions. Presidential assent will be required A replica ordinance approved by the cabinet in August was reserved by the governor for consideration of the President. Officials said the Bill passed by the Assembly on Thursday will also be reserved by the governor for the consideration of the President despite the fact that the government has modified Section 23 of the Bill, a provision which gives it an overriding effect over other laws.Section 23 of the ordinance provided the proposed law an overriding effect over any other laws, a broad provision having the potential to be repugnant to an Act of the Parliament. However, the same section in the Bill now provides overriding effect on any other state law. Constitutional issues raise question mark on Bill’s fate However, issues raised by the law and legislative secretary during the vetting of the proposed law still hold good, officials said. The clause providing for preference in jobs to the local candidates domiciled in Haryana was also seemingly in contravention of Article 14 of the Constitution pertaining to equality before the law and Article 19 (1)(g) which provides for protection of certain rights to practice any profession, or to carry on any occupation, trade or business.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-assembly-private-sector-quota-bill-passed/story-8QFHpkXYGo3saMB9PCcaBN.html
06-11-2020||City||Ulhasnagar traders seek dedicated parking space for shoppers||The traders association of Ulhasnagar has approached the civic chief asking to allot dedicate parking space for four wheelers in the markets to avoid congestion on the road this Diwali. The markets in Ulhasnagar including Gajanan market, Japani market, furniture market and electronics market are popular for shopping.Deepak Chhatlani, working president, Ulhasnagar Traders Association, said, “As the festival of Diwali is round the corner, a huge crowd will arrive from Kalyan, Dombivli, Thane, Bhiwandi and Karjat for shopping. Every year, the roads are congested due to lack of parking facility, especially for the four wheelers as people arrive with their families for purchasing. We have asked the civic chief to provide dedicate four-wheeler parking space.”The association, which has 50 small associations attached to it, claimed that last year also it had approached the Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC) but no arrangement was done. The association has asked for the Sadhu Vaswani Garden, popularly known as Gol Maidan, in Ulhasnagar for 15 days from November 5 to November 20 for parking of four wheelers.“Fifty per cent of the people who come to us for shopping complain of lack of parking space and sometimes they also leave without shopping. This has been affecting the business. Also, due to the lockdown, most of the people have faced a loss already. We want the civic body to support us this time. We are also ready to give security personnel from our side at the parking space,” added Chhatlani.The vehicles are parked on the road side leading to major congestion along the stretch and making it difficult for one to walk or ride.“There is no parking facility in the entire city even though it is popular for shopping. The roads are also narrow in most parts of the city. The civic body should make some permanent arrangements for parking of vehicles,” said Suraj Purswani,30, a resident of Gol maidan , Ulhasnagar.UMC commissioner Raja Dayanidhi said, “We have not taken any decision yet on this.”Meanwhile, in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the shopkeepers’ association of Ulhasnagar have decided to make sure customers wore mask. If a customer was found without a mask, it would be provided by the shopkeepers.“For the safety and to ensure there is no spread of the infection, we will make sure people wear mask while they visit the shops. We have asked the shopkeepers to provide use-and-throw masks to the customers if they come without a mask. This will be followed strictly,” said Deepak Chhatlani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ulhasnagar-traders-seek-dedicated-parking-space-for-shoppers/story-kagpGQF3fNFJOsWGwvaX9N.html
06-11-2020||City||Thane assistant commissioner files complaint against person for threat||The assistant municipal commissioner of Thane Municipal Corporation, Pranali Ghonge, has registered a non-cognisable offence against a person for threatening and obstructing a public servant during action against illegal hawkers in Thane. The Naupada police are investigating the matter.The police said Ghonge, posted as AMC for Naupada-Kopri Division, in her complaint to police named the accused as Vinayak Raut. Ghonge said the first incident took place on October 19 when she was conducting a drive against hawkers with her staff at 9pm on Thane railway station road, Thane (W). The second time was on November 3 when the accused threaten her by texting on her WhatsApp.“The accused Raut is not familiar or known to Ghonge. But on October 19, he interrupted the clean-up drive against hawkers by blaming it to be an illegal drive and against the law. He tried to stop the action against illegal hawkers,” she added in her statement to police.“We had warned him the first time, after which he came to apologise. however as he had a record of assaulting our staff, I did not entertain him. Finally he sent me a threatening text against the on-going drive. To take a note of the text, we filed a complaint against him,” said Ghonge.Raut in his text, said, “I did not let any business on this road suffer in the last so many days. I did not let any hawker lose business against whom you have conducted the drive. However, now you can expect some reaction.” The Naupada police have registered a NC on November 3 under Section 186 (Obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions) and 506 (Punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian penal code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-assistant-commissioner-files-complaint-against-person-for-threat/story-mtNd7mUNIKWfGOJrxP8RzI.html
06-11-2020||City||5 injured in acid attack between 2 families in Kalyan||Five persons from two different families suffered injuries in Netivali village of Kalyan on Thursday after throwing acid over each other. Kolsewadi police, investigating the matter, informed that the two families have a long-time enmity and the fight broke among adults after the children of these families started fighting while playing. All have suffered minor injuries.According to Kolsewadi police, the families of Mehjabin Abid Ansari, 40, and Rinku Mandal, 32, stay opposite to each other. Both the families have differences amongst themselves since the past few years over property.On Wednesday, the children from both the families were playing in front of their houses and started fighting. The adults joined the fight and the matter went to the police station. The Kolsewadi police told both the families to resolve the matter amongst themselves.A police officer said, “On Thursday evening, a fight started again on the same issue between the families when Ansari went to talk to Rinku’s husband, Tinku. They started assaulting each other. Tinku, who works as a tattoo designer, has acid in the house which he threw towards Ansari during which the Mandal couple, Ansari and two neighbours who came to stop the fight, got injured.”Deputy police commissioner, V Pansare, said, “We have arrested both the accused Rinku and Tinku Mandal in the case. All suffered minor injuries and are released from the hospital except Ansari. We have registered a case under IPC 326 for voluntarily causing hurt.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/5-injured-in-acid-attack-between-2-families-in-kalyan/story-QuTjcHOSqALPHn3vXt3jFP.html
06-11-2020||City||After quitting alliance, SAD eyes BJP’s voter base in Ludhiana||With merely a year left for elections, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), which recently snapped ties with its long-time ally Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), is trying to woo Hindu voters.Senior party leaders, including Bikram Singh Majithia, raised the slogan of ‘Bolo Sache Darbar Ki Jai’ to garner Hindu votes during a protest held against state food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu for alleged corruption in the paddy procurement near his residence at Kochar Market locality on Wednesday.“SAD is the sole custodian of Sikh and Hindu brotherhood. We have not forgotten the role of Congress in triggering terrorism in the state. We represent 3 crores Punjabis of the state who support our ideology of development,” said party leader Mahesh Inder Singh Grewal.As per the seat-sharing system, BJP used to field their candidate from Ludhiana West constituency, which has an equal proportion of Hindu and Sikh population. With SAD parting ways with BJP, SAD is now looking forward to field its candidate from the constituency.In the 2017 election, food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu had registered a comfortable win in a triangular contest. Ashu had got record 66,627 votes while Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) candidate Ahbaab Singh Grewal had got 30,106 votes and, BJP candidate Kamal Chatly could garner merely 22,620 votes.Sources in the party said that the protest was aimed at preparing a pitch for the election. SAD is looking forward to cash the opportunity as AAP is losing its sheen and, BJP leaders are receiving brickbats due to the ongoing farmer protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-sad-unit-out-to-woo-hindu-voters/story-EiVm1N9lEdTj4l7TwVkdBJ.html
06-11-2020||City||Navi Mumbai police crack 8-year murder case after two failed attempts||Eight years after a 55-year-old Mathadi worker (labourer) was found murdered in Turbhe, the Navi Mumbai crime branch arrested his fellow worker for the murder. The 46-year-old “dreaded criminal” had killed the man to rob him of ₹25,000, which the victim had won in a gambling game.On December 29, 2012, police found the body of Ananda Sukale, 55, a Mathadi worker. Sukale was strangled and his body was dumped in a nylon sack near the Turbhe state transport bus depot in Sector 20.At the time, police had barely any leads and after months of investigation, they eventually filed an ‘A’ summary report before a local court notifying the case is undetected. The investigation was closed only to be opened in May 2016.The second time also, police failed to bring any evidence or working leads and again filed the same summary nine months later.An officer from the crime branch said, “The case was reopened the third time and they got lucky. Investigating officers said that while the witnesses were a few in the case, they were afraid to step forward because of the accused person’s criminal history. The demolition of a slum pocket located opposite the bus depot made the investigation tougher. It was finally an auto rickshaw driver whose help proved crucial in landing the accused in our net.”What surprised the police was that the accused, Dashrath Kamble, 46, also a Mathadi worker, was not only known to the victim but also had been staying in the same Sector 20, where he allegedly dumped Sukale’s body.At the time of murder, Sukale had won ₹25,000 in a gambling game. Determined to get the money, Kamble allegedly hatched a plan to kill him. On December 28, the two were in a parking lot in Sector 20 at around 2.30 pm. Taking advantage of the parked vehicles, Kamble allegedly hit him on the head with a wooden rod, said police.Using Sukale’s towel, which was around his neck, Kamble then strangled him and hid the body behind the wall which was covered with thick bushes. He then fled with Sukale’s money. He returned at 4 am the next day and loaded the body in a nylon sack, stole a parked auto rickshaw and moved the body to dump it near the bus depot.“We recently received a tip off about his possible involvement. We have four witnesses. He has at least 10 criminal cases against him and people in the locality were scared of him,” said Giridhar Gore, senior inspector, unit 2, crime branch.At the time of murder, Kamble was externed from the city. He had been externed from the city limits multiple times, police said adding that he has cases of robbery, theft, assault and also for possessing illegal arms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-police-crack-8-year-murder-case-after-two-failed-attempts/story-qh6P7c0kN9XJpI9nv2kW0I.html
06-11-2020||City||NMMC’s RT-PCR lab touches 50K test mark||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation-run RT-PCR lab in Nerul, which was started on August 4, has successfully conducted 50,000 tests.The process of obtaining government permission for setting up the lab and procuring all the necessary mechanisms required for testing was completed within 11 days. The lab was started at Nerul’s Masaheb Meenatai Thackeray Hospital.As on November 2, around 50,363 Covid tests have been done in this lab. After Abhijit Bangar took over as the commissioner of NMMC on July 14, in the very first press conference, he announced the corporation’s plan to start its own RT-PCR lab.Till then, NMMC had to rely on government-appointed labs or private labs for Covid-19 tests.Mahendra Konde, public relations officer of NMMC, said, “The government-appointed lab was burdened with tests of other cities as well, which delayed reports and there was resentment from citizens of Navi Mumbai. In view of this situation, the Rapid Antigen Test, which provided a test report within half-an-hour was launched on July 16.”The lab has a capacity to test 1,000 samples per day and is said to the most up-to-date lab in the entire MMR.Bangar added, “In mission ‘Break the Chain’, the emphasis was on the three principles of ‘trace, test and treat’. In order to increase the number of tests required for this, along with the antigen test, the corporation needed its own RT-PCR. The best and most up-to-date equipment was chosen for the lab.”The lab conducts tests 24 hours, not just for Navi Mumbai but also for neighbouring Panvel and Thane as well, informed Konde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nmmc-s-rt-pcr-lab-touches-50k-test-mark/story-2TWOpkUyr80jhySu4jgLIL.html
06-11-2020||City||Man from Karnataka killed under mysterious circumstances in Kalamboli||A 31-year-old man was killed in a public garden in Kalamboli early on Thursday under mysterious circumstances. Police said the victim had arrived in the city to celebrate Diwali with his sister.Originally from Karnataka, Nagnath Male was staying in Pune while making a living as a daily wage labourer. A few days ago, he had called his sister, who lives in Kalamboli, informing her that he was visiting her to celebrate Diwali. His sister is also a daily wage labourer.Police said they were puzzled with the sequence of events leading up to the murder. The absence of other injuries has also led the police to suspect if the accused rendered Male unconscious before killing him. The police are also clueless about the motive behind the murder.Except for a few abrasions around his neck and strangulation marks, police have not found other injuries on Male. Officials suspected he was strangled with a rope.“We are waiting for the post-mortem report and also a forensic report to find out whether he consumed something before his murder. We have formed three teams, and each of them is chasing different leads,” said Satish Gaikwad, senior inspector at Kalamboli police station.The police are also studying the CCTV footage to make a list of suspects. Officials said Male was killed in the garden and most likely arrived with the accused. Police are investigating the involvement of people known to him.Ruling out robbery, police sources said Male did not have any valuables on him or cash except for a phone, which was not recovered.Male got married in May this year. However, his wife left him as he would often drink and did not have a job. Before moving to Talegaon in Pune, Male was working in Navi Mumbai as a daily wage labourer. Police said they have dispatched a team to Pune to establish if he had any recent dispute with anyone.Meanwhile, the Kalamboli police have registered a case of murder against an unidentified person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-from-karnataka-killed-under-mysterious-circumstances-in-kalamboli/story-OtRuipGb6KCQIIbLFxUljL.html
06-11-2020||City||Man surrenders to Bhiwandi police after murdering wife over extra-marital affair||The Shanti Nagar police in Bhiwandi have arrested a 50-year-old man for brutally killing his 38-year-old wife with a sharp weapon on Wednesday.The wife was allegedly in a relationship with another man, who sent a compromising video of them together to the husband. This enraged the accused, who stabbed his wife to death and surrendered himself to police with the same bloodied hands.The accused, Mohammed Yunus Khan, has been residing with his wife, Nasrin, the deceased, for more than 16 years in Ansar Nagar, Bhiwandi. The two have three children.According to Shanti Nagar police officials, Nasrin left her husband’s house a few months after he lost his job and shifted to her parents’ house. The couple had regular fights over this before they were estranged.An officer from Shanti Nagar police station said, “While the accused was struggling to patch up his marriage, his wife’s boyfriend sent him his private intimate videos with Nasrin on Wednesday. The furious accused couldn’t control his rage and went to Nasrin’s parent’s house in Gaibir Nagar. He confronted her, after which a fight broke out between the two and he stabbed her with a knife several times. Nasrin’s family rushed to her rescue and admitted her to Indira Gandhi Hospital.“Meanwhile, the accused fled the spot but later he surrendered himself to the police along with the knife he used to stab his wife.”Nasrin succumbed to her injures during treatment. The police have booked Khan for murder under sections of IPC 302.As per the police records, this is the fifth case of woman being murdered by her husband in Bhiwandi in the last five months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-surrenders-to-bhiwandi-police-after-murdering-wife-over-extra-marital-affair/story-MMVc6AlVyKrVw9gjxLy4SJ.html
06-11-2020||City||Hawkers back despite KDMC drive against encroachment on footpaths||The 15-day special drive against encroachments in Kalyan-Dombivli has failed to decongest the footpaths. The minute the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) turns its back, the encroachers are back on the footpaths.The KDMC razed several sheds, extensions, handcarts, baskets and other encroachments on different roads in the city in this drive that began on November 1.The drive is being carried out on different roads every other day. However, it has failed to bring a major change in the scenario.Manish Chaudhari, 28, a resident of Tilak Chowk, Kalyan (W), said, “The hawkers clear the footpath when they see the team arriving. However, once they KDMC staff have gone, all the hawkers are back. Even the shopkeepers keep their items outside on the footpaths just to attract the customers to their shops. Not even a single footpath is free to walk in the city.”The hawkers alleged that the civic body did not raze the encroachments by shopkeepers and only focused on the hawkers. The hawkers and vendors claimed that the shopkeepers were allowed to remove the encroachments by themselves during the drive while the hawkers’ goods were forcefully seized.“The shopkeepers who had their sheds and other items placed on the footpaths were asked to remove it on the spot while our baskets of fruits and vegetables were picked up by the civic workers. This eviction was only targeted to trouble hawkers while the shopkeepers enjoyed all the liberty,” said Suhas Gupta, 38, who sells fruit at the Kalyan Station Road.Till the fifth day of the drive, KDMC has removed more than 100 sheds, carts, baskets , extensions from the footpaths across Kalyan-Dombivli.“The vendors and hawkers are obstructing the drive. They get violent at times and consume a lot of time. We try to take away the encroached items so that they don’t come back to the footpaths. Even if we have cleared a particular road, our employees keep visiting the road to ensure the footpaths are clear,” said a ward officer of KDMC who did not wish to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hawkers-back-despite-kdmc-drive-against-encroachment-on-footpaths/story-6VAH3aUb6v2Q2V65wGeINK.html
06-11-2020||Chandigarh||Congress stages walkout over short duration of Haryana assembly||Congress, the principal opposition party in the Haryana assembly, staged a walkout from the House on the first day of the second part of the monsoon session on Thursday, demanding that the assembly’s sittings be increased. Trouble started after speaker Gian Chand Gupta introduced the business advisory committee (BAC) report that approved wrapping the session in two days. Leader of Opposition and the Congress Legislative Party (CLP) leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda questioned why the session was being concluded in just two sittings and demanded that the duration of the session be increased to discuss hot-button issues concerning farmers. The speaker assured the Congress members, who were on their feet and some of them had trooped into the well of the House, that he will extend the duration of the sitting on Friday until the entire business of the day was over. The speaker Gupta said that if required the Friday’s sitting could be extended till late evening. But Congress MLAs refused to relent and din prevailed in the House. Hooda said there were hosts of issues, including the contentious three farm laws of the Centre, that needed to be debated in the House. Taking a dig at the Congress lawmakers, parliamentary affairs minister Kanwar Pal said the main opposition party was making noise in order to run away from holding a debate. The speaker again assured the Congress, saying: “I will give you as much time as you want for discussion...I will give you enough time...” Refusing to accept the BAC report, Hooda along with other Congress MLAs walked out of the House and the House adopted the BAC report through voice vote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/congress-stages-walkout-over-short-duration-of-haryana-assembly/story-UkrWsOksAPEpsRNYthwWyJ.html
06-11-2020||City||Will restore Gaondevi Maidan status once parking project completed: Thane civic body assures High Court||Following a petition filed by a Thane-based activist against the underground parking project at Gaondevi Maidan, the TMC has assured the Bombay High Court that it would restore the historical ground to its previous status after the work is completed. The court had also asked the corporation to implement the Pay and Park policy across the city in the near future.The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) had proposed the first underground parking in the city to be developed below the Gaondevi ground, an open space in the heart of the city, the work for which began few months ago. Hundreds of vehicles, which at present have no space to park near Thane station, can use the facility.However, Thane-based activist, Mahesh Bedekar, had filed a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) last year against this parking project in the Bombay High Court in April this year. He claimed that while he had no wish to stall the project, the parking would destroy this prominent open space in Thane city.Bedekar said, “The corporation has given an undertaking to the court that it will restore the ground as per its previous status after the parking is constructed. Based on this undertaking, the court has disposed of the petition and asked us to file a fresh appeal in case the corporation did not abide by it. Not abiding by the undertaking will be contempt of court.”The ground is near the station and used by youngsters, children and senior citizens. It also has a historical significance as popular leaders have held rallies here for decades.The underground parking will cater to approximately 250 vehicles, which at present, are parked along the congested station roads, claimed the TMC.A civic official requesting anonymity said, “The ground will be restored after the work is completed. The parking is underground. After construction of parking, the soil will be backfilled over the top slab. It will be levelled with the existing ground level. We have already mentioned the same in the affidavit that we have submitted to the court.”He informed that about 40 per cent of the underground parking work is completed. The entire project will be completed by June 2021.The corporation had initiated a Pay-and-Park facility on 166 roads across the city. However, no agency took up the tender following which the policy was shelved.Bedekar said, “We have appealed to the court that the corporation implements the pay and park policy on the city roads. The court has asked us to follow this up with a fresh affidavit in future if the policy was not implemented.”The civic official added, “The decision regarding the revival of parking policy will have to be taken by the civic commissioner. We have tried several times to call for tenders for Pay-and-Park, however there was no response due to which it was shelved last year.”BOXABOUT THE UNDERGROUND PARKING** The underground parking will be developed on an area of 7,000sqm.** It will have space to park 130 cars and 120 two-wheelers.** This will be a Pay-and-Park parking facility and the first plaza near Thane station by the corporation.** The cost of the project is around ₹26Cr.2nd BOXPARKING WOES NEAR THANE STATION** No authorised four-wheeler parking available near Thane station.** Parking facility available only for two-wheelers which is operated by private player.** The parking rate varies from ₹20 to ₹50 per hour.** Gaondevi ground is reserved as a playground, so parking is strictly prohibited on this ground.** People who visit the station for shopping or catch a train face parking problems in the area.3rd BOXABOUT PARKING POLICY** In 2008, the TMC conducted an integrated traffic survey based on which the parking policy was formulated in 2014. The policy is based on National Urban Transport Policy, whose main aim was to free up roads for vehicles and increase parking charges to encourage the use of public transport.** The policy was supposed to be implemented in 2015. The corporation was supposed to start smart parking on more than 166 roads, wherein commuters will get information on vacant parking on their smart phones.** However, the corporation did not find any agency who was ready to provide smart parking facility in the city. Thus, the pay and park was stalled for years. The corporation is now contemplating to remove the smart parking and float tenders for basic pay and park facilities last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/will-restore-gaondevi-maidan-status-once-parking-project-completed-thane-civic-body-assures-high-court/story-wEuR7agMByOVqc1vgF5tYP.html
06-11-2020||City||Direct road connecting Kalyan West and East from month-end, say KDMC officials||From November end, commuters can take a direct road connecting Kalyan (W) to Kalyan (E) as the work of concretisation and widening of the F Cabin road would soon be completed.The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) officials, after visiting the project, claimed that the road work was in its final stages and would be opened for vehicular traffic.The road was closed for a month due to which the commuters had to take a longer route, either through the Shahad-Ulhasnagar-Shreeram Chowk or the Kalyan Station Road-Patripool Bridge stretch.This road between Waldhuni Bridge and Anand Dighe Bridge develops potholes every year during monsoon. Even after the pre-monsoon repair works on this road, it had large patches of potholes, making it difficult for the commuters to commute.The KDMC had initiated the cement concretisation work of the 450m stretch under the funds provided by the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA). The cost of the project is estimated as ₹4.35Cr.Sapna Koli, city engineer, KDMC, said, “Eighty per cent of the work is done on this stretch and the remaining 20 per cent will also be completed soon. We plan to start vehicular traffic on this stretch by November end, once the work on the road is completed. The work on adjoining footpath will be carried out simultaneously.”Taking advantage of the closure of this road, the civic body also took the work of mastic asphalting on the 560m-long Anand Dighe Bridge, which is a part of F Cabin Road. The bridge also develops potholes during monsoon.“Two years back, we did mastic asphalting at the Waldhuni Bridge. As a result, it has not developed any potholes till date. Anand Dighe Bridge also needs asphalting. The work is being carried out simultaneously,” added Koli.Commuters claimed that a lot of work on this stretch was still pending, raising doubts over the month-end deadline.“The work should have been completed before Diwali as people would move out in large number and the traffic situation would be worse. Taking the other routes is a nightmare as they are longer and also congested most of the times,” said Sushil Pingle, 32, a commuter who takes the Kalyan Station Road-Patripool stretch to connect to east from west of Kalyan.Even though the road is shut, some two-wheeler riders are found taking this stretch to avoid the long routes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/direct-road-connecting-kalyan-west-and-east-from-month-end-say-kdmc-officials/story-6vjYyG0KfaeKW9tlxHkOpM.html
06-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana assembly: House pays homage to departed leaders, soldiers||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday led the Vidhan Sabha in paying tributes to recently departed political leaders, freedom fighters and the soldiers killed in action, on the first day of the second part of the monsoon session on Thursday. During the ‘obituary references’, the House remembered former President and Bharat Ratna awardee Pranab Mukherjee; Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan; Union minister of state Suresh Angadi ; former Union minister Jaswant Singh; former minister of Haryana Swami Agnivesh, and other former MLAs.Khattar paid tributes and read out the obituary resolutions remembering the prominent personalities who had passed away after the end of the previous session and beginning of the current session. Leader of Opposition and Congress Legislative Party (CLP) leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda also read the obituary resolutions. Members of House observed a two-minute silence to pay homage to the departed souls. Later, Vidhan Sabha speaker Gian Chand Gupta read out the obituary resolutions. The House also remembered 13 soldiers killed in action, including colonel Vinay Kumar Yadav of village Nunsar, Bhiwani; lieutenant colonel Satyadeep Dhanda of village Bhagana, Hisar; sub-inspector Shashank Rawat of Palwal; assistant sub-inspector Prem Chand of Bahadurpura village, and sepoy Jagmeet Singh of Bhartauli village , Kurukshetra; nayab subedar Ashok Kumar of Ladrawan village,Jhajjar; havaldar Diwan Singh of Anawas village and Naik Satish of Nangla village, Mahendergarh; Havaldar Diwan Chand of Basi Akbarpur village, Karnal; Sepoy Bhupender Singh of Ranila Bass village, Charkhi Dadri; Sepoy Kulwinder Singh of Andheri village, Ambala; sepoy Shri Bhagwan of Datoli village, Charkhi Dadri; and sepoy Kuldeep of Bond Kalan village, Charkhi Dadri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-assembly-house-pays-homage-to-departed-leaders-soldiers/story-2rGQRGtIes5KTh2YA2rYxN.html
06-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana assembly:EWS candidates to get 5-year age relaxation in police jobs||Candidaters from economically weaker sections (EWS) aspiring for government jobs will be given a five-year age relaxation in police recruitment, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar announced in the Vidhan Sabha on Thursday. During question hour, Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) legislator Ram Kumar Gautam asked whether there was any proposal under consideration for providing age-relaxation of five years to EWS category candidates in police recruitments. In a written response, home minister Anil Vij informed the House that there was no such proposal. However, Vij verbally observed that the suggestion was worth looking into. At this, Khattar stood and seconded Vij’s opinion saying the state government will give relaxation of five years to the candidates. Khattar said the state government was providing 10% reservation to EWS category candidates in government jobs, same as the Centre.Work on Badhra sub-division building will start soon: Dushyant Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant assured his mother and legislator Naina Singh Chautala that formalities regarding construction of a sub-division building in Badhra of Charkhi-Dadri district will be completed shortly. “The land for construction of the sub-division building in Badhra is being identified. Construction work will be taken up thereafter,” the deputy CM stated in a written reply. He said the department needed 10-acre land for the construction. ‘No fee being charged from Khelo India athletes’ Haryana minister of state for sports and youth affairs Sandeep Singh said the state government was not charging fee from players participating in the Khelo India (2021) games slated to be held in Panchkula. Observing that players can participate in these games only on the basis of merit, he said if any person or company demands any fee from players in the name of Khelo India then a complaint should be registered with the sports department. “Strict action will be taken against such people,” he said, pointing out that some complaints had already come to his notice through social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-assembly-ews-candidates-to-get-5-year-age-relaxation-in-police-jobs/story-kwVQTWFTPR9TnLKxh7vXtI.html
06-11-2020||Mumbai||‘Class 10 and 12 board exams not possible in Maharashtra before May’||Board exams for classes 10 and 12 are not possible before May, state education minister Varsha Gaikwad said, also adding that the state is planning on opening schools and colleges for classes 9 to 12 immediately after Diwali.The minister said her department wanted schools and colleges to open for older students immediately after Diwali so that the board exams and next academic year were not delayed. “Our department is planning to open schools immediately after Diwali for classes 9 to 12. The classes will be conducted either in two sessions or on alternate days, so as to maintain social distancing amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The students from these classes will be able to manage the pandemic protocol and there will not be any fear of the spread of coronavirus. We are planning to hold board exams for classes 10 and 12 in May and it is possible only if we start schools immediately after Diwali,” Gaikwad told Hindustan Times.According to officials from the department, field officers have suggested avoiding holding the exams in monsoon owing to difficulties in rural areas. “We can hold board exams either in May or after the monsoon, during September next year. However, pushing the exams to September will result in wasting another academic year, which we don’t want. To complete the syllabus, including practicals before the exams, schools need a couple of months. The preparation for exams, including setting papers, their printing and transportation, need another one-and-a-half months. All this is possible only if we start schools by the end of November,” said an official from the school education department.Gaikwad said schools for classes 1 to 8 would not be opened immediately. “We will begin with older students from class 9 and above in the first phase. For students from lower classes, online classes will continue as usual. The final decision about opening of schools will be taken by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. We do not want to shut down schools again after their opening because of the spread of the virus as it happened in some other states like Andhra Pradesh and Delhi,” she said.The state government is expected to issue an SOP for schools and colleges on the lines of the ones issued for teachers, for whom 50% attendance has been made mandatory. Officials from the department said the decision will be taken for the entire state, although the local authorities will have the powers to differ depending on the Covid-19 situation. “Schools in remote areas with fewer Covid-19 cases were opened in July, but since it was against the Central government protocol of pandemic, we had to shut them down. This time, limited classes are allowed to open, concentrating only on board exams,” another official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/class-10-and-12-board-exams-not-possible-in-maharashtra-before-may/story-eRl567Oqym6386wo1ighAI.html
06-11-2020||Chandigarh||14 dead, three critical after consuming spurious liquor in Panipat, Sonepat||Fourteen people died and three fell ill in Panipat and Sonepat after allegedly consuming adulterated liquor on Thursday.Seven people died and three were hospitalised in Panipat after they allegedly consumed spurious liquor. The deceased have been identified as Bijender Singh, Balbir Singh, Sat Pal and Islam of Dhansoli village, Sushil and Mehar Singh of Nangla Paar village and Shiv Kumar of Rana Majra village. Ramesh of Kala-Amb, Inder and Ratna Ram of Dhansoli have been hospitalised and their condition is critical. The cause of the death has not been ascertained yet but police officials associated with the investigation said it is suspected that the victims had consumed spurious liquor. Relatives who came to claim the bodies at the civil hospital said the victims had liquor before their death. Panipat superintendent of police Manisha Chaudhary has formed a special investigation team under the Panipat DSP (crime) Rajesh Phogat to find the source of the liquor they had consumed. A woman has been arrested from Dhansoli for being allegedly selling illicit liquor. Sonepat’s toll rises to 34 With seven more people dying after allegedly consuming spurious liquor in Sonepat, the death toll in the tragedy that has been unfolding for the last four days rose to 34, officials said on Thursday.Two fatalities were reported from Sonepat city and five from Gumar village in Ganaur area of the district. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Virender Singh said seven people had died in the past 24 hours in Sonepat city and Gumar village.“The incident came to light on Wednesday after families of 14 people cremated the victims without informing the police on Monday and Tuesday. We learnt about the incident through media reports claiming that 14 people had suddenly died,” he added.A senior police official, seeking anonymity, said the viscera report of five deceased confirmed that they had died due to consuming spurious liquor. Meanwhile, the Haryana police arrested seven persons, including a woman and conducted raids at two factories, where spurious liquor was prepared.DSP Singh said they had arrested a man, identified as Vijay Kumar from Naina Tatarpur village, who was involved in making spurious liquor.“We have seized two drums of spurious liquor, 254 bottles of Santra liquor and other equipment from a building where the accused was staying. We have arrested another man, Ankit Kumar, who was involved in the similar business from Kharkhauda in the district. We recovered 15 bottles of illegal liquor and ₹14.51 lakh from Raju of Sonepat,” the DSP added.Two cops suspendedAfter 34 people died allegedly after consuming liquor, Sonepat superintendent of police Jashandeep Randhawa swung into action and suspended two cops- Mohana police station in-charge Sri Bhagwan and another cop, who was in-charge of a police check post.“ Rohtak range inspector general of police (IG) Sandeep Khirwar constituted a team led by DSP (headquarters) Virender Singh to conduct a probe into the tragedy,” the SP added.The deceased, mostly labourers and lower middle class workers, were living in Mayur Vihar, Shastri Colony, Pragati Colony and Indian Colony—of Sonepat city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/14-dead-three-critical-after-consuming-spurious-liquor-in-panipat-sonepat/story-wChRAlZBS0Vw4vE33ukWwO.html
06-11-2020||City||Arrests of Arnab Goswami and two others seem illegal, observes court; cops file revision plea||The Alibag police on Thursday filed a revision application in the Alibag sessions court against the magistrate order that sent Republic TV’s editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami to judicial custody till November 18, said a senior officer. The revision application was filed after the chief judicial magistrate court late on Wednesday observed that the arrests of Goswami, 47, and two others, for allegedly abetting the suicide of a 53-year-old interior designer, Anvay Naik, and his mother in 2018, appeared illegal, while rejecting the plea of the prosecution for custodial interrogation. The revision application will be heard on November 7. The Alibag police on Wednesday morning had arrested Goswami, Feroz Shaikh, owner of IcastX/Skimedia, and Nitesh Sarda, owner of Smartwork. The prosecution sought their maximum police custody for further investigation. The plea was turned down by chief judicial magistrate (Alibag), Sunayana S Pingale, who noted that the prosecution failed to prima facie establish a link between the deceased and the accused. In her order, the magistrate said, “In view of the objections raised by the defence lawyers and grounds raised by the prosecution to seek police custody, the arrest itself appears illegal. After careful screening of the document, it appears that the connection between the incident and the deaths of two people, the connection between the deceased and the accused should have been determined before seeking police custody. Only if this chain of circumstances is intact, the connection of the incident with the accused can be established to seek police custody of the accused.” The court raised questions on the theory of suicide of Naik’s mother, Kumud. The court questioned that if the prosecution case was believed to be true, there was no reason established for the suicide of Naik’s mother. “Even if it is considered that, the accused had to pay money to Naik and the other contractors were pestering him for payment, he was depressed, the question remains why did his mother, Kumud Naik, decide to die by suicide or if she had died by suicide? The prosecution has no satisfactory answer on this issue. The chain of circumstances, between the death of Kumud and Anvay Naik, the reason behind their deaths and its connection with the accused is not completely established,” read the order in Marathi. The court also raised questions on decision for further investigation. The prosecution has failed to put forth grounds on why the previous investigation is incomplete and what issues remained for further investigation. “There is no prima facie intact chain of circumstances to connect the accused with the incident to send the accused to police custody. Hence, the police had closed the case for want of evidence. The said closure report has not been challenged or set aside by any higher court and is still in existence. In such circumstances, there are no reasonable grounds to remand the accused in police custody,” read the court order. In May 2018, almost a year after Republic TV was launched, Naik and his mother were found dead at their farmhouse in Kavir village of Alibag taluka. Naik’s wife Akshata, 48, had then registered a complaint. A suicide note was found, police said, in which Naik alleged that he and his mother were forced to end their lives because he was not paid dues amounting to ₹5.40 crore by Goswami, Shaikh and Sarda. After the case was closed by the local police last year over “insufficient evidence”, Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh in May 2020 announced a fresh investigation, saying Naik’s daughter Adnya approached him, alleging that the Alibag police had not properly investigated the case. According to the FIR in the abetment to suicide case, police claimed ARG Outlier Media Private Limited – the parent company of Republic TV – didn’t pay dues of ₹83 lakh to Naik for building Republic TV’s studios, called the Bombay Dyeing Studio Project. Police also alleged that Shaikh didn’t pay Naik ₹4 crore for his project in Andheri in MumbaI, while Sarda didn’t pay ₹55 lakh for his projects at Magarpatta and Baner in Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/arrests-of-arnab-goswami-and-two-others-seem-illegal-observes-court-cops-file-revision-plea/story-QGpOXFBWrvTrw7EkMgMsxL.html
06-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s Covid tally passes 1.7 million, govt appeals for cracker-free Diwali||As Maharashtra went past 1,700,000 confirmed Covid-19 cases on Thursday, the state health department chalked out measures to prevent a potential second wave of Covid-19 infections during winter in Maharashtra. The state government has also appealed to people of Maharashtra to celebrate a cracker-free Diwali, keeping in mind that smoke due to firecrackers could create health issues for people suffering from Covid-19.The issue to ban firecrackers was discussed in the state cabinet on Thursday, however, no decision was taken on the ban. State health minister Rajesh Tope said the government may take a decision on restricting the use of crackers later. Although a discussion over banning firecrackers like done by a few other states, the state cabinet on Thursday stopped short of the decision. A few ministers reportedly suggested promoting environment-friendly crackers, instead of banning them completely. Tope said he was in favour of a firecracker-free Diwali this year, which would reduce air pollution and prevent a rise in coronavirus cases. Large-scale bursting of crackers during Diwali is known to increase pollution levels in the air, which adds to the discomfort of people who suffer from lung ailments. The state-appointed task force and death audit committee had, during its meeting on Thursday, suggested the ban on firecrackers. Following the cabinet meeting on Thursday, Tope said, “We appeal to the people to have a cracker-free Diwali celebration and we are confident that the people will cooperate for overall betterment of people’s health. The smoke due to firecrackers causes discomfort to people. In the backdrop of the coronavirus outbreak, we must have a cracker-free Diwali.”Over the past four weeks, the Covid-19 curve in the state has been on the descending limb. However, with winter approaching, health department officials and experts are unsure how the virus would behave in the season.HT on Wednesday had reported that the state-appointed committee on communicable diseases had submitted an action plan to the state health department. A winter surge is common for respiratory viruses, and many experts believe that the number of Covid-19 cases is likely to rise as temperatures dip.Tope held a meeting with the state-appointed Covid task force and death-audit committee to chalk out measures to prevent a potential second wave in winter like the one in European countries. The measures decided, according to Tope, include increasing testing and surveillance and identifying potential super-spreaders in the society and monitor them.“Key decisions have been taken in the meeting with members of the Covid task force and death audit committees. We will utilise the testing capacity of the laboratories and increase tracing. Surveillance on influenza-like illness (ILI) through fever clinics, especially during winters, will help us identify symptoms. Testing and check-ups of potential super-spreaders, who have a lot of interaction with various groups of people, such as milkman, maids, vegetable vendors, people working in public transport. They have to be monitored closely so that the infection does not spread rapidly,” Tope said, following the meeting.The minister reiterated that the chances of a second wave in Maharashtra are low, but further unlock measures and increased movement of people during the festive season could increase the chance of more cases. “The chances of a second wave are low in the state, but if we do not take precautions in keeping social distancing measures, do not wear masks, keep our hands sanitised, then the possibility of infection cannot be denied. In Diwali there will be a lot of crowding, people will move around more. Another factor will be winter, and virus multiplies faster in a colder environment,” he said.Meanwhile, the BMC has said that citizens should follow all safety precautions while celebrating Diwali owing to Covid-19. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC, said, “There is no restriction as such on celebration or bursting of crackers, but normal precautions that we are taking now is expected to be taken by citizens. We will issue standard operating procedures (SOP) in two days, if the state government issues the same.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-s-covid-tally-passes-1-7-million-govt-appeals-for-cracker-free-diwali/story-OdF0qXKS0i31Usf08buigL.html
06-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s property tax will not increase this financial year in view of Covid pandemic||There will be no hike in property tax in Mumbai this financial year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The state cabinet on Thursday decided to not go for property-value assessment in the city. In turn, there will be no revision in property tax during the ongoing financial year. A hike of around 17% in the property tax was expected this year. The cabinet also gave its nod to promulgate an ordinance to amend the existing law. The civic body assesses value of properties every five years to charge property tax to citizens. The tax is being charged on capital value of the property and is based on the existing ready reckoner rates, an official said.“People are badly affected by the Covid-19 lockdown. The assessment of property tax was expected to be conducted in 2020-21. In order to provide relief, the state has decided to postpone it for a year till 2021-22,” said Mahesh Pathak, principal secretary, urban development department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-property-tax-will-not-increase-this-financial-year-in-view-of-covid-pandemic/story-o2I7xwhoBBmbEldXZPB2hO.html
06-11-2020||Chandigarh||Air quality in 7 Haryana cities turns severe||Seven cities in Haryana ranked ‘severe’ and 11 ‘very poor’ on the air quality index (AQI) on Thursday. As per the Central Pollution Control Board air quality bulletin, air quality in Faridabad, Fatehabad, Gurugram, Bahadurgarh, Daruhera, Jind and Kaithal was ‘severe’ with the AQI crossing 400.The air quality in Ambala, Ballabgarh, Charkhi Dadri, Hisar, Karnal, Kurukshetra, Manesar, Panipat, Rohtak, Sonepat and Yamunanagar was categorised’ very poor’, with an AQI of over 300. The air quality of Panchkula, Palwal and Sirsa cities was categorised ‘poor’ was an AQI of around 200.However, farm fires in the state remained unabated with 199 incidents reported in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative active farm fires to 6,581. As per the Haryana Space Applications Centre, most farm fires were reported in Kaithal (1,223), followed by Karnal (986), Fatehabad (883), Kurukshetra (823), Ambala (774), Yamunanagar (445) and Sirsa (294).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/air-quality-in-7-haryana-cities-turns-severe/story-S1oU2s672ifH1wfXa6pJyM.html
06-11-2020||City||Ludhiana: Vehicle lifters’ gang busted, four arrested||The city police claimed to have busted a gang of vehicle thieves by arresting four of its members. The gang had allegedly stolen nearly 20 cars and SUVs and sold them further to scrap dealers in Raikot.The accused have been identified as Sukhjit Singh, 30, of Rara Sahib village near Ludhiana, Parminder Singh, 50, of Amritsar, Suraj Kumar, 30, of Shimlapuri and Ramesh Kumar, 34, of Malerkotla Road, Raikot.The trio of Sukhjit, Parminder, Suraj, was nabbed at a naka on Jassian Road following a tip-off on Wednesday. During the questioning, the accused confessed that they had committed nearly three dozen thefts.Sharing details, joint commissioner of police Bhagirath Meena said that the accused were selling the stolen vehicles to Ramesh Kumar, a scrap dealer of Raikot, who was dismantling them and selling their parts further.The cops raided the scrap dealer’s place and recovered three cars as well as parts of 19 dismantled cars.“The accused were presented before the court and sent for two-day police remand. We will investigate whether the accused were selling the stolen vehicle to some other scrap dealers as well,” said JCP Meena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-vehicle-lifters-gang-busted-four-arrested/story-kMUxMAV6zgS33R33saLPxJ.html
06-11-2020||Chandigarh||Tata Steel PGTI Players Championship 2020: Overnight leader Akshay continues domination on Day 2||After a superb eight-under-64 in the first round at Panchkula, Chandigarh golfer Akshay Sharma capitalised at his home course, Chandigarh Golf Club, on Thursday with a card of six-under-66, a second straight bogey-free round, on Day 2 of the TATA Steel PGTI Players Championship 2020 Presented by Panchkula Golf Club. With a tally of 14-under-130, the 30-year-old caddy–turned pro is on top of the leaderboard. Another Chandigarh golfer, Karandeep Kochhar, who was placed tied-fourth on Wednesday, shot the day’s best overall score of seven-under-65 to finish at tied second with a two-day score of 11-under-133. He was playing at Panchkula course. Bengaluru’s Chikkarangappa, a 13-time winner on the PGTI, was also tied for second as a result of his 67 in Chandigarh. Each half of the field has so far played a round each at the Panchkula Golf Club and the Chandigarh Golf Club. The next two rounds (third and fourth) will be played at the Panchkula Golf Club. The halfway cut came down at four-over-148 with 54 professionals making it to the money rounds. Akshay (64-66), the overnight leader by two shots, lived up to his own expectations of building on his lead in favourable home conditions. Akshay, currently 29th on the PGTI order of merit, went error-free for the second day in succession to extend his lead to three strokes. He came up with the best score on Thursday. Akshay made two long birdie conversions, a 12-footer and a 20-footer, on the ninth and 11th respectively. He also set up tap-in birdies with his exceptional chipping on the 13th and 16th. “The key to today’s round was the momentum earlier on as I started with par and birdie on the first two holes. I was expecting a low score today and I achieved that so it’s quite satisfying and puts me in a strong position. Importantly, I continued to find the greens and hit 15 regulations today following up on my 17 in round one,” Sharma said. “As the final two rounds are in Panchkula, where anyone can shoot a low round if they hit regulation. My focus will be on placement as it was during my first round in Panchkula,” he added. Karandeep Kochhar (68-65) gained two spots to move into tied second as a result of his 65. Kochhar was off to an explosive start with six birdies on the front-nine which featured conversions from 25 feet, 35 feet and three quality up and downs including one from the bunker. He had a brilliant run of four straight birdies from the fifth to the eighth. After a three-putt bogey on the 14th, Karandeep came back strong with birdies on the next three holes where he came up with some immaculate wedge shots including a chip-in on the 17th. The tall and lanky Kochhar closed with a bogey on the last which he attributed to wrong club-selection on the tee. Chikkarangappa (66-67), who was overnight sole second, produced six birdies and a bogey en route his 67 that placed him joint second along with Kochhar. There was daylight between the top-3 and the rest as Chandigarh’s Aadil Bedi (69) and Patna’s Aman Raj (69) were next best in tied fourth at six-under-138.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/tata-steel-pgti-players-championship-2020-overnight-leader-akshay-continues-domination-on-day-2/story-kKD7rr99a5LxNrMkEuwMcN.html
06-11-2020||Delhi||Experts, residents agree: Relaxations proving costly in fight against pandemic in Delhi||Even as the Delhi high court cautioned on Thursday that the national capital could soon become the country’s “corona capital”, resident welfare associations (RWAs) and experts are urging the Delhi government to announce measures such as graded restrictions in public places, and roll back several steps taken to ease restrictions on gatherings at a time when the city can ill afford them.On Thursday, the number of daily Covid-19 cases remained high at 6,715 cases, taking the city’s tally to 416,653. What was more worrying was that this was at the back of relatively low tests (52,294) given the recent trend, pushing the positivity rate for the day to an alarming 12.84%.In recent weeks, Delhi has eased restrictions on weddings, public gatherings, interstate buses and cinema halls. Experts said this could be counterproductive given where Delhi stands in the Covid-19 fight -- bang in the middle of the third wave with the seven-day average of cases rising to 5843, higher than the peak of 4,174 it had hit in the second wave on September 17.“Epidemiologically, no expert would recommend such relaxations at this point of time. But, it is mostly political and economical in context,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology and infectious disease at ICMR.“What the government should do now is to at least substantially reduce the time of interaction of people. This means timings of malls, markets, restaurants, pubs should be regulated and reduced. Cap on the number of passengers in buses and guests at weddings should be reduced. Besides, the analysis of the spike in Covid-19 cases has to be very focused because that is what will help the government do targeted testing. In markets, covid-19 testing camps should be massively expanded. At present, these camps are visibly inadequate compared to the inflow of visitors and are mostly located in obscure locations. If buses are opened up to more passengers, then at least 70-80% arriving passengers should be tested,” said Kant. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, who convened a review meeting on Thursday in view of the increasing cases, said that the government will intensify “targeted tests” by focusing on high-risk individuals, which includes contacts of people diagnosed covid-19 positive, and by scaling up tests through mobile vans deployed in markets and crowded public places.Dr T Jacob John, a retired professor of clinical virology at Christian Medical College, Vellore, said the ideal situation would be to “reduce interaction of people” by putting in some curbs. He said the rising number of cases also implies that Delhi is not testing enough.Meanwhile, Dr Shobha Broor, former head of the department of microbiology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), said that schools must be kept shut (which they are), and non-essential services such as cinema halls and restaurants (which have been reopened), should also be closed or heavily restricted for at least a few weeks.The views of the experts were echoed by RWAs.Mukesh Sinha of the Dwarka residents’ association said the focus should be on restrictions, rather than opening up, starting with restrictions and regulations in the city’s markets.“Today, images from Chandni Chowk were going viral on social media. The market was bustling with people owing to the festive season. Even in local markets people are seen wearing masks, but no social distancing is being practised. Also, there is hardly any presence of enforcement officials,” he said.A number of concerned RWAs have written to the chief minister and lieutenant governor (LG) Anil Baijal requesting for a review of the Covid-related decisions and stricter enforcement of norms. Baijal is the chairperson of the Delhi disaster management authority (DDMA).“We suggest a graded approach. The free flow and opening of all economic activity with no checks and balances sends a wrong signal to the populace, making them believe that things are under control, thus becoming careless. The Western world is again going into a lockdown. India cannot afford another economic shutdown. Therefore, necessary restrictions are needed to contain Covid,” read the letter sent by Save Our City campaign -- an association of civil society members, RWAs and experts - on MondayDelhi government spokespersons and the LG’s office did not respond to queries seeking comments.Over the last week, state heath minister Satyendar Jain has repeatedly rejected the idea of bringing back restrictions.“The virus is at the community transmission stage. When a city is in a community transmission stage, it is impossible to wipe out the spread of infection with any form of lockdown. It will probably take 2-3 months more for the Covid-19 vaccine to arrive here. So, till then the mask is the only vaccine and the Delhi government is conducting an intensive awareness campaign. Enforcement agencies have also been asked to intensify the crackdown against violators of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour,” Jain said last week.Experts are not sure these measures will be enough.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/experts-residents-agree-relaxations-proving-costly-in-fight-against-pandemic-in-delhi/story-uNC4y4zwmFCTBPqGnnRGUN.html
06-11-2020||Delhi||As pollution rises, CPCB advises offices to reduce vehicle use||As Delhi’s air quality slipped into the ‘severe’ category on Thursday, recording an overall air quality index (AQI) of 450, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) advised government and private offices to reduce the use of vehicles by at least 30% in the coming weeks in an attempt to keep the pollution levels in control. On Thursday, CPCB’s task force held a meeting to implement further action on the winter segment of the Air (Grap) to curb pollution. Directing enforcement agencies in Delhi and states in the national capital region (NCR) region to increase action against polluting sources, the task force advised the government and private employers to reduce vehicular usage by at least 30% in the coming weeks to keep the pollution spike in check. The CPCB advised that offices should encourage employees to work from home, go for car polling, and plan field activities in a way to reduce vehicular usage. Prashant Gargava, member secretary, CPCB, said while these measures were advisory, this could go a long way in reducing rising pollution levels in the national capital. “It is a known fact that vehicular emission is a contributor in Delhi’s pollution levels. Since other sources are being checked by enforcement teams, we have advised that offices encourage their staff to reduce vehicular trips as much as possible. Even for the general public, we advise that as much as possible, avoid using your cars and motorcycles,” Gargava said. While Delhi residents welcomed this suggestion, many believed a plan to reduce vehicular use should have been made mandatory in offices till the pollution levels are controlled. “Advisories are rarely followed. The culture of working from home has been developed here because of Covid-19 and so the pollution control bodies should make it mandatory for offices to allow only 30% of its staff on days when the pollution levels are rising. If we can do it for Covid then why not for pollution; this is also harming us,” Neel Dev Rai, joint secretary of the North Delhi Collective Residents Welfare Association (NDCRA), said. The CPCB had last year too released a similar advisory, asking people to reduce the use of diesel cars as much as possible and urged employers to allow its staff to work from home. Gargava said the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has informed them that air quality will improve from Thursday evening, and the AQI is expected to settle in the ‘very poor’ category on Friday. He said the task force is keeping a close watch on the pollution levels. VK Soni, head of India Meteorological Department’s environment monitoring research centre, who was also a part of the meeting, informed CPCB that the sudden deterioration in the air quality was a result of an unprecedented reduction in wind speed, which could not be captured by the IMD model. “It was apprised that PM10 (particulate matter with diameter less than 10 micrometers) was the prominent pollutant (on Thursday). It was indicated that air quality is likely to improve from today evening due to increased wind speed and will remain in ‘very poor’ category for the next two days,” the minutes of the meeting read. After a central government ordinance dissolved the Supreme Court-appointed air quality monitoring body, Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (Epca), the task of calling for the implementation of emergency measures listed under Grap will be on the CPCB this time. “Enforcement is in no way getting affected. We used to monitor the air quality and send our recommendations to Epca, and we continue to do it now to the union environment ministry,” Gargava said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/as-pollution-rises-cpcb-advises-offices-to-reduce-vehicle-use/story-WXtYQXB3D53l78bQYGr8hL.html
06-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi air enters ominous ‘severe’ zone; local factors, stubble play crucial role||Local pollutants, weather factors, and a season-high contribution of stubble fire to the city’s air together pushed pollution in the national capital to the ‘severe’ throughout Thursday, with some areas perilously close to the 500-mark — the highest level on the air quality index (AQI) scale. In some areas, the levels of major pollutants exceeded the accepted safe-limit by eight or nine times.Data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed that as Delhi collectively gasped for breath on Thursday, pollution levels in areas such as Anand Vihar, Mundka, Bawana, Narela, Vivek Vihar, Jahangirpuri and Dwarka spiralled out of control. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that while weather did play a spoiler for Delhi, local pollution sources also acted up. In a meeting with the CPCB taskforce the IMD said that the primary pollutant in Delhi’s air on Thursday was PM10 (coarse particulate matter), which is primarily dust. Stubble fires also contributed to 42% — the highest so far this season — of Delhi’s PM 2.5 load on Thursday, according to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) under Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology.At 7am on Thursday, when the city’s hourly average AQI was moving upwards from 450, pollution levels in Anand Vihar and Narela were above 480. Bawana, Vivek Vihar and Dwarka were also quick to join the list with their hourly average AQI reading settling at 492, 488 and 482 respectively. In Anand Vihar, which is surrounded by two major inter-state bus terminals, the levels of PM 2.5 (ultrafine particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) started climbing during the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday. At midnight on Wednesday, the PM2.5 level in Anand Vihar was 507ug/m3, and though it consistently reduced through the night, it remained above the 300-mark. At 7am on Thursday, the levels were 385ug/m3. In west Delhi’s Mundka, the situation was no better. As winds calmed on Wednesday, the PM 2.5 levels around the area spiked to touch 567ug/m3 at 11pm on Wednesday. Data maintained by Delhi Pollution Control Committee (Dpcc) shows that at 7am on Thursday, the PM 2.5 levels in Mundka were recorded 416ug/m3, as against the acceptable standards of 60ug/m3. Shops owners around Mundka Metro station said the area was covered in a blanket of haze throughout Thursday. Despite the visible deterioration in air quality, industrial activities, private constructions and garbage-burning continued unabated, residents said. “It was like a scene from a Hollywood movie set in a post-apocalyptic world. The government claims that they are conducting high-level meetings to control pollution in Delhi, while all they need to do is fix the basics. The road here is broken, which means that any vehicle crossing from here pushes a cloud of dust all over. There is no check on industrial activities and open burning. Garbage is not picked up roadsides for days together and once or twice a fortnight, someone sets it on fire,” said RP Yadav, a businessman in Mundka. In residential areas such as Dwarka, dust became a primary contributor in Thursday’s pollution. The Delhi Pollution Control Committee’s monitoring station in Dwarka’s Sector 8 recorded a peak PM10 level of 902ug/m3 at 6pm, which dropped marginally, but remained above 800ug/m3 as of 9pm. In India, the acceptable standards for PM10 are 100ug/m3. In south Delhi’s RK Puram, the PM10 level saw a sudden spike after 4pm. Data shows that from 257ug/m3 at 4pm, the levels consistently rose to reach 659ug/m3 at 9pm. While locals in all of these areas complained of insufficient pollution measures by government agencies in these areas, enforcement teams continued to repeat their claims that action was being taken across the city to reduce pollution levels. The latest action taken-report submitted by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation shows that the agency has deployed 134 water sprinklers in their jurisdiction to keep dust levels in check. Jai Prakash, north Delhi mayor said, “Sprinkling was done twice on Thursday, keeping in mind the high pollution levels. Apart from this, 48 vigilance teams were also put into action to check for violations. From October 29 to November 3, we have issued 113 challans amounting to around R17 lakhs.” Experts said since weather conditions become unfavourable during winters, it becomes imperative that enforcement be made effective. “In Delhi, even though we have bent the annual pollution curve, we still have to reduce levels of bad air by 60% to meet the clean air standards for PM2.5. So, if you are still so high above the acceptable mark and you also have the unfavourable winter conditions, action needs to be stepped up,” said Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment (CSE).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-air-enters-ominous-severe-zone-local-factors-stubble-play-crucial-role/story-uRsCxc0mkq1OkXoFdn6f8K.html
06-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra awards industry status to hospitality sector||The state cabinet on Thursday awarded the hospitality sector the status of an industry. The decision is expected to help revive the hospitality sector, which is now eligible for various benefits including rebates in electricity charges as well as water and property taxes. “Today, the Cabinet has approved “industry status” proposal for hotels in Maharashtra. This is a landmark moment for the hotel industry. After reduction of pre-establishment licenses from 70 to 10, industry status will give much needed support to hotels,” tweeted state tourism and environment minister Aaditya Thackeray on Thursday.Establishments classified as hotels by the Union ministry of tourism can avail benefits from April 1, 2021. An expert committee will finalise norms for other establishments over the next two months. Valsa Nair, principal secretary, tourism department, said, “There are 110 hotels, ranging between one to five stars, classified by the ministry of tourism. Since classification is not mandatory, many have not applied. To provide benefits to them as well, the committee will suggest norms which will be finalised by the state. Under these norms, they will have to apply online and after a field visit, further decision will be taken by the state.”With the status in place, eligible hotels will be charged at industrial rates for power supply, water supply, taxes and dues instead of the commercial rates that are currently applicable. Also, for additional floor space index (FSI), establishments will be charged at industrial rates.“We look forward to more global hotels coming to Maharashtra, with the state being the easiest to set up business in and the friendliest to run it,” Thackeray tweeted.State industries minister Subhash Desai said power tariffs at industrial rates would be a game changer for the hospitality sector. “It is one of the sectors that has suffered a lot due to Covid-19. The potential for job creation is huge in the services sector, particularly in hospitality. We want to revive the sector. All the facilities and incentives applicable to industries will now be applicable to hospitality sector as well,” said Desai. He also said that the government expects the benefits received by the sector to be passed on to customers, which in turn would attract more tourists. Riyaaz Amlani, CEO, Impresario Entertainment and Hospitality and member of the National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI), said the move would be a great boost for the sector. “It is definitely a momentous decision for the hotel industry. We have been fighting for this since over 25 years. Hat’s off to Maharashtra government. First, they reduced the number of licenses and now gave industry status to hotels. As of now, restaurants are excluded from it but we are hopeful that they will also be included soon,” Amlani said.To attract more investors, the state government approved the ease of doing business policy last month, bringing down the number of licences required to start a venture in the hospitality sector to 10 from the previous 70.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-awards-industry-status-to-hospitality-sector/story-Y6Wo4WCgYkRzqs4hEPhUuJ.html
06-11-2020||Mumbai||No first day, first show as theatres in Maharashtra were not prepared to reopen||Theatres and multiplexes in the city could not begin the show on the first day, after the state government gave permission to operate theatres from Thursday, for the want of preparedness to adhere to the new standard operating procedure (SOP) in the view of Covid-19 pandemic.According to the theatre and multiplexes operators, the decision was announced on Wednesday, with barely a few hours left in the day and the SOP was issued on Thursday, the day announced for the opening. “There is huge arrangement which needs to be done before actually running the show. It was not possible within a few hours. We will start our Maharashtra operations from Sunday,” said Devang Sampat, CEO, Cinepolis India, which has nine premises across Maharashtra.Rajiv Patni, COO of INOX Leisure Ltd, said “We are completely geared up and prepared for the new normal, which would assign topmost priority to safety and hygiene and begin the operations soon.”Majority of single-screen theatres plan to start their operations from next Friday. “Filmmakers also need time to prepare for their release, and hence, we will open from next Friday,” said Nitin Datar, president of Cinema Owners and Exhibitors Association of India.There are approximately 450 single-screen theatres across Maharashtra. The SOP mandated that the occupancy should not be more than 50% of the total capacity and that the seats that are not to be occupied be marked during booking.It asked multiplexes to ensure that their show timings be staggered so that there is no crowding and also ensure that intervals of different shows do not coincide. It also mandated that all patrons should be wearing face covers/masks and sanitisation needs to be done after every screening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-first-day-first-show-as-theatres-in-maharashtra-were-not-prepared-to-reopen/story-M8k1qZUrVQrpPVlwQqMtVP.html
06-11-2020||Delhi||Residents, experts welcome firecracker ban in Delhi; traders complain||On a day when Delhi’s air quality took a nosedive to reach severe levels, the Delhi government’s announcement to ban firecrackers came as a whiff of fresh air for residents. Environment experts also welcomed the move, saying this was the only way to prevent an impending air emergency ahead of Diwali. Menaka Ray, general secretary of South Delhi Residents’ Welfare Committee, said 53 parents of children below the age of 5 years had sent out a joint petition to Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to take action against cracker bursting ahead of Diwali this year. She said the move has come as a relief to all those parents and many others. “My daughter was born with asthma and every year days before Diwali her condition worsens. Many parents like me are thankful for this move,” said Ray. Kejriwal on Thursday said the decision to ban firecrackers was taken after assessing the Covid-19 situation, which was made worse by pollution. Environment experts said while this ban shows intent on the part of the government, successful implementation can only happen with the participation of people. Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) said: “We need to be much more aggressive to control pollution. When you introduce such a ban, enforcement becomes tricky. People’s participation is of utmost importance now,” she said. TRADERS UPSETBut the news came as a shocker to cracker traders, who had already procured licences and had stocked up on permitted ‘green crackers’. “How can the government announce a blanket ban on all firecrackers with no warning? We had invested lakhs and now we are just left to fend for ourselves?” Tushar Ramdas, a wholesale trader said. Many saw this as a rerun of the 2018 ban by the Supreme Court, which had left hundreds of traders in the lurch. “Many traders sell their wives’ jewellery and take shops on rent. How will these people survive now?” said Hardayal Singh from the Rajouri Garden cracker market association. Senior officials said all 93 licences issued by the department for sale of green crackers are now cancelled. ENFORCEMENTA senior Delhi Pollution Control Committee official said implementation of the ban will begin. Delhi Police said they are awaiting for orders. Last year, police had arrested 261 people for selling or bursting illegal firecrackers on or ahead of Diwali and had registered 433 FIRs. They had seized 9,758 kilos of illegal firecrackers. Most of these FIRs and arrests had happened on Diwali night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/residents-experts-welcome-firecracker-ban-traders-complain/story-mTPW7GVUH4yEsp9fU8x68I.html
06-11-2020||Mumbai||Will focus on better infra for films, says Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||In the view of the announcement of constructing a film city by Uttar Pradesh government, Maharashtra chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting with film industry stakeholders and assured them of sops, including allotment of land for a bigger film city, setting up affordable theatres and dedicated theatres for Marathi films. Meanwhile, a day after allowing theatres to open, Maharashtra government has allowed auditoriums for plays to open following guidelines. CM Thackeray, in the inaugural session of a three-day webinar to discuss a policy for the entertainment sector in the state, took a veiled jibe at Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath and said that the state government would focus on providing best film productions facilities in the state. He also added that the state will work on setting up affordable theatres as well as dedicated theatres for Marathi films. “There are talks to take the Mumbai film city to Uttar Pradesh. Let them take it if they have capabilities. We will focus on quality and state-of-the-art production facilities,” Thackeray said.Speaking at the inaugural session of Panorama — a policy discourse webinar, Thackeray asked various stakeholders of the film industry to prepare an action plan for strengthening film infrastructure including post-production facilities. Filmmaker Rakeysh Omprakash Mehra pointed out the need for a bigger film city somewhere along the Mumbai-Pune expressway. He also called for affordable theatres for the common man. Marathi actor Subodh Bhave rues that Marathi films do not get adequate space in theatres.“We are going to make a rule to keep theatres reserved for Marathi films. We will definitely look for a flat piece of land for [film city]. We also need to prioritise our plans in the wake of Covid-19 as to what should be taken up first. My government will do all it can for the progress and growth of the industry, whose foundation stone was laid by Dadasaheb Phalke, in its birthplace,” Thackeray said.After another meeting with stakeholders from Marathi theatre, Thackeray allowed auditoriums for plays to operate at 50% capacity.Thackeray, who held a meeting with operators of theatres for plays and their producers, said producers of plays will have to remain cautious for their actors and audiences when auditoriums reopen as the threat of Covid-19 has not passed yet. The CM reiterated that London and France are seeing a harsher second wave, and the state government intends to prevent a similar scenario in Maharashtra.According to a statement from the chief minister’s office, Thackeray said, “The main difference between film and theatre is that the latter does not have the luxury of retakes. Therefore, there is a need to be extra cautious. Producers must carry out health check-up of actors, [actors should] maintain physical distance on the stage, maintain hygiene and cleanliness. Entry without masks should not be allowed in the theatres. Food stalls outside auditoriums must also ensure cleanliness and hygiene.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/will-focus-on-better-infra-for-films-says-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-e/story-Q0pgh7ScGNaFRwPHFaSCEN.html
06-11-2020||City||Posing as suitor, man dupes Ludhiana woman of ₹5.5 lakh||A 36-year-old woman was duped by a man, who approached her through a matrimonial website posing as a potential groom, and his accomplices, of Rs 5.50 lakh. According to investigating officer Lakhwinder Masih, the accused have been identified as Dev Kumar and Sunita of Mizoram, Mohd Aseem of Gurugram, Asha from Kanpur, and Mohd Aloudin from New Delhi. The complainant, who works in a private bank and is a resident of Rose Enclave, said that Kumar came in touch with her through a matrimonial website last year. Both of them began chatting. He told the victim that he was born in India and his parents had moved to the United Kingdom (UK) when he was very young. He expressed the wish to settle back in India. The complainant said that on January 2, the accused said that he was sending a parcel from the UK containing 1 lakh pound along with required documents so that she could buy a plot for them to build a house and live in after their wedding. After two days, Kumar’s accomplice Sunita, who was posing as a customs agent, claimed that a parcel had arrived and the victim would have to submit Rs 5.50 lakh to get it released. The complainant deposited the money in the account number shared by Dev. Two days later, Dev called the complainant and said that he had landed in India, and the customs officials were demanding Rs 8 lakh for releasing his valuables. Dev asked the complainant to submit Rs 8 lakh in the bank account immediately. On this, the complaint suspected something fishy. She tracked the previous transaction and learned that accused persons had withdrawn the cash in Gurugram. When the complainant called Dev and asked him the reason for duping her, he switched off his phone. The investigating officer said that a case under various sections of the IPC had been registered against the accused. He added that the police had information about the gang and its modus operandi, and they will be nabbed soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/posing-as-suitor-man-dupes-ludhiana-woman-of-5-5l/story-kKvRpMoWUN5YdbhrAPKGIJ.html
06-11-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers’ protest in Mohali leaves commuters a harried lot||Protesting against the farm bills passed by the Union government, various factions of the Bhartiya Kisan Unions (BKU) held a chakka jam on Thursday and blocked major roads and highways at five places in Mohali district, leaving commuters a harried lot. Massive traffic jam was witnessed in Kharar as vehicles were stranded for nearly four hours. However, no untoward incident was reported and the protest went peacefully.Traffic jam were also witnessed on Banur-Kharar and Kharar-Landran highways and on Ambala-Chandigarh highway near Lalru. Mohali traffic police diverted traffic to alternate routes to reach Mohali and Chandigarh.BKU (Sidhupur), BKU (Lakhowal) and Kul Hind Kisan Sabha, Mohali, also blocked highways near Banur and at Lalru, Zirakpur, Amb Sahib Gurdwara, Kharar bus stand and Landran Road.As many as 50 to 80 protesters supported by Davinder Singh Dehkalan, district president, BKU (Lakhowal), Ravinder Singh Dehkalan, district president, BKU (Sidhupur); Gian Singh Dhadak, general secretary, BKU (Sidhupur), Azaib Singh Ghaduan, vice-president, BKU (Sidhupur); Balbir Singh Musafir, president, Kul Hind Kisan Sabha, Mohali, and Kuldeep Singh, president, CITU, Mohali, blocked the road in Kharar for one hour before dispersing. They also burnt an effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to show their opposition towards the three farm bills passed by the central government. Naib tehsildar Puneet Bansal, deputy superintendent of police Manjeet Singh, DSP Rupinderjit Kaur and other police personnel managed the protesters. They said the agitation was peaceful. Around 150 protesters Led by Manpreet Singh Amlala, vice- president, BKU (Lakhowal), and Karam Singh Baroli, also blocked the Ambala-Chandigarh Highway at Lalru.  . Protests were also held at Singhpura crossing in Zirakpur as well as near toll plaza Banur and Airport Road and Amb Sahib Gurdwara in Sohana were blocked. While addressing the gathering, leaders said that they will even close Dappar toll plaza if their demands are not met. They also said that all thee bills should be translated to Punjabi and distributed in all over the state so that people can understand what they mean.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farmers-protest-leaves-commuters-a-harried-lot/story-iNvoLlWrdcJ67JvYFtmjiL.html
06-11-2020||Pune||Dinkar Kelkar Museum appeals to public for funds||The prestigious Raja Dinkar Kelkar Museum, currently in its 100th year of existence, has been hit hard by the Covid-19 pandemic. Closed for eight months, because of the lockdown, the museum has now appealed to the public to raise funds for its running and upkeep. In a message sent out to Punekars, trustees of the Raja Kelkar Dinkar museum, a heritage and history trove of 21,000 artefacts located on Bajirao road, have said it is currently undergoing its worst financial crisis. The management says it requires Rs 8 lakh a month to pay salaries of staff, and for other expenses. However, due to the lockdown, visitors are not allowed in and its grant from the government has also not arrived. Sudhanva Ranade, museum director, said that since March 17, when it closed its doors, the museum has been managing basic expenses from funds recived from well-wishers and aficionados. “The basic expenses are usually borne by an annual government grant for maintenance and rent and taxes, which amounts to Rs 64 lakh annually. This has been sanctioned duly by the government of Maharashtra, though due to the lockdown, the museum is still awaiting the funds,” said Ranade. He further added, “We need a minimum of Rs 8 lakh per month for basic expenses like salaries, provident fund, professional tax, telephone and electricity bill, and general cleaning. We need Rs 55 lakhs to run the museum per year and there is always a budget cut to the extent of 30 per cent. So the museum receives, on an average, Rs 42 lakh out of the total sanctioned grant. Along with the sales of tickets, the museum is run on the basis of these two revenue streams.” With generous financial support of some people, the museum was able to pay salaries for March, April, May and June, this year. “The museum definitely needs financial help from all walks of life and I request you to donate as much as possible to the museum,” Ranade, the grandson of Dinkar Gangadhar Kelkar, whose 125 birth anniversary is being observed this year, has appealed. The collection from the museum reflects the elegance of Indian craftsmanship as well the vivid imagination of the artists. It houses every day artefacts, which includes lamps, palanquins, carved woodwork, tin ware, combs, bowls, stones, musical instruments and miniature paintings from Peshwa era.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dinkar-kelkar-museum-appeals-to-public-for-funds/story-2b7BDe1H3SvNWBfDE0WbPP.html
06-11-2020||Pune||Man found dead in Hadapsar||PUNE: A man was found bludgeoned to death in an open field in Hadapsar on Thursday morning. The deceased was identified as Datta Sahebrao Kamble, a resident of Malwadi area of Pune. The police recovered the body and sent it for post-mortem to Sassoon General Hospital. The police suspect the man to have been hit in the head with a stone. The police are awaiting the doctor’s report to determine the exact cause of death. A case under Section 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Hadapsar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-found-dead-in-hadapsar/story-mlcdBDe4W45Ob0o1b1uqiJ.html
06-11-2020||Pune||Court denies judicial custody of former MP Sanjay Kakade in case of threatening||PUNE Sanjay Kakade (52), former Member of Parliament (MP) from Pune and member of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), was granted relief from judicial custody, against the recommendation of the Pune police, on Thursday, in a case where he is accused of allegedly threatening his brother-in-law over a family dispute in 2018.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Kakade’s brother-in-law.He was booked along with his wife Usha Kakade (44) in the case for allegedly threatening the life of her brother Yuvraj Sitaram Dhamale (42), a resident of Dhankawadi.“This is a family dispute. The complainant has accused me of threatening him two years ago. In the past two years, neither I nor my wife have spoken with the complainant. I’m surprised about these allegations. Now the matter is sub-judice. Today (on Thursday) pre-arrest bail was granted to us by the court for Rs 10,000 per person. We are following due legal course,” said a statement released by Kakade.The court order specifies a personal bond of Rs 15,000 for the accused.“The court has granted them bail on three conditions: not to tamper with prosecution evidence, attendance at police station whenever required, and no leaving the country before the final report is submitted. Beyond that, I cannot comment on the issue,” said advocate Vijaysinh Thombre, representing the complainant.On Wednesday, the police went to the court with a chargesheet in the case and had asked for 14 days of judicial custody for the former MP and his wife. However, the court denied the arrests.The Kakades have been booked under 506 (criminal intimidation), 506(2), 500 (punishment for defamation), 504 (insult with an intention of provoking a breach of peace), and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code in a case registered at Chatuhshrungi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/court-denies-judicial-custody-of-former-mp-sanjay-kakade-in-case-of-threatening/story-y3i3Yal086UKJ2Zs3dDgcK.html
06-11-2020||Pune||Woman stabbed in the eye by unidentified man for resisting molestation in Pune||PUNE: A 36-year-old woman lost an eye to an attack mounted on her by an unidentified man whose advances she resisted in Shirur area of Pune district on Wednesday night.The incident took place at 11pm when the woman was going to relieve herself in an open ground near her house.“We are looking for the suspect,” said DySP Rahul Dhas, sub divisional police officer of Daund division of Pune rural police. Inspector Praveen Khanapure of Shirur police station is investigating the case.The woman has undergone surgery and is stable. The doctors are checking for injuries related to possible sexual assault, according to the police.“I was at home and had just finished dinner. Our granddaughter was with us and my wife took her to her mother, our elder daughter, who is married and lives nearby. On her way back home, after dropping our granddaughter, my wife went to this open ground which is used by people of the area for relieving themselves,” said her 40-year-old husband.The open ground where the woman was found is located near the road that connects the residential area with Nhavare village in Shirur. The woman was found by a young boy who lives in the area where the ground is located. The boy alerted the survivor’s nephew who told her woman’s husband.“I rushed to the spot. It was dark so I used my mobile light to see that she was lying there with blood flowing from her face. She was barely conscious. She said that a man had tried to grab her and she had shoved him away. She said he walked away and she couldn’t see when he came back because she had turned her back towards him. She said he came from behind, grabbed her hair and rammed it against a rock and she started losing consciousness. She told me that he drew something from his shirt pocket and jammed it in her eye,” said her husband.She was rushed to Shirur hospital and later referred to Sassoon General Hospital where she is undergoing treatment.A case under Sections 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and 307 (attempted murder) of Indian Penal Code was registered based on a complaint lodged by the woman’s 20-year-old daughter at Shirur police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/woman-stabbed-in-the-eye-by-unidentified-man-for-resisting-molestation-in-pune/story-mBUACkmmKA77rSu46Ovp9J.html
06-11-2020||Pune||Lockdown effect: Rodents nibble away at wiring of parked vehicles||The Covid-19 lockdown had everyone house-bound, that means parked cars were left for a long period of time in the company of rodents causing massive damage to cables of vehicles.Automobile service stations across city are coming across dozens of cases where rodents - rats, mice - have chewed wires and caused damaged worth lakhs of rupees to the owners.Neeraj Bhide, a resident of Prabhat road, had to spend Rs 1,40,000 to replace wiring and radiator fan of his luxury four-wheeler.“My car was parked at Prabhat road for the three months. In May, when the restrictions were eased while driving, I came to know that the engine temperature of my vehicle is very high as the radiator fan was not working,” said Bhide, a working professional. It was the first time Bhide has come across to such damage to his cars.“If your car is standing for a long period then such damage happens,” explained Bhide.Ashwin Apte, who runs Apte Shri Auto Service, near MIT College Kothrud, said, “Such problem arises only when the car is standing at one place for many days. Generally, rats are found in parking areas and after lockdown, many of our clients are facing similar problems.”The rats have either eaten wires in the engine compartment or have chewed cable of air condition and seat covers were also damaged.“Out of seven cars which we get to repair in a day, four-five cars have a problem of wire damages. Price of every wire varies, but on an average minimum one has to spend Rs10,000 to fix the wire connection,” added Apte.Another resident of Mumbai, who came to Pune, also faced the same problem, though he was lucky enough to drive safely to the city before he came to know that the wires of the car were damaged. Since March 2020 when the first lockdown was announced, his car was stationed at his car-park at Mumbai’s Malad West, located along the suburban railway track.“After coming to Pune, the mechanic detected that there was a short circuit of wiring inside the bonnet which happened due to chewing of wires. The manufacture had stopped the production of this particular model and so I preferred to book a new car for delivery during the upcoming Diwali rather than getting it repaired for a high estimate that the auto-mechanic had offered,” said the resident requesting anonymity.Another auto mechanic from Pimpri-Chinchwad said, though rats are smaller creatures, the damage they cause is immense, particularly when the vehicle is parked unattended for a longer period. “Such cases have increased during the lockdown as vehicles were parked for a longer period. In the past too we have attended similar problems,” said, Mahendra Patil, an auto-mechanic.Rishab Pokarna, a resident of Chakan, who faced a similar problem is still clueless about how much he will have to spend to repair his vehicle.“I was not in Pune during till last month so from around May, my car was parked in the society parking. On Sunday (November 1) when I tried to restart my car, it did not start and I had to tow my car and now how many wires have been damages is still not known,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-effect-rodents-nibble-away-at-wiring-of-parked-vehicles/story-M0YYftJkMK4YFEzvGCLBNK.html
06-11-2020||Pune||1,10,000 medical staff from Pune dist are to receive first round of Covid-19 vaccine on priority||The Pune district administration is now geared for the distribution of the Covid vaccination, under its “Negcav” (National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19) programme, formed by the district administration. “In Pune district, information on 1,10,000 people working in various health related sectors, will be uploaded on the Covid-19 Vaccination Beneficiary Management System (CVBMS) system for the vaccination programme,” said Pune district collector, Rajesh Deshmukh.“Through Negcav we will work on the priorities of vaccination, demand for vaccines, other materials needed and preparations to give the vaccines. Under this CVBMS is being prepared by our administration. In the first phase, we are collecting information about people working in the health sector and in health organisations. Both government and private organisaitons are included. After this section is vaccinated according to priority, further vaccinations will be done,” said Deshmukh. The state government has now also included private doctors in the Covid-19 vaccine database. Maharashtra had formerly excluded private doctors in a circular addressed to all collectors, municipal commissioners and divisional commissioners on October 13, 2020. The circular was against the guidelines proposed by the central government. The Indian Medical Association (IMA), Maharashtra, had strongly objected and had complained to the Prime Minister. Maharashtra has now informed the IMA that all the doctors in the state will be included in the proposed Covid vaccine database. Priority-wise selections for Covid vaccination (Both, government and private personnel) *Frontline health workers – Health workers, Asha organisation workers, Taluka group volunteers and anganwadi sevika *Nurses and supervisors *Medical officials - MBBS, post-graduates, teaching and non-teaching staff, administrative doctors, Ayush doctors, dentists *Paramedical staff: OT technicians, lab technicians, pharmacists, physiotherapists, radiographers, ward boys *Scientists and research staff *Students: medical, dental, Ayush, nursing and paramedical *Support staff: dieticians, , sanitation workers, ambulance drivers, security staff, other support staff *Clerical and administrative staff - data entry operators, engineers, clerical staff *Other health staff working in the facility not covered above||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-10-000-medical-staff-on-priority-to-receive-first-round-of-covid-19-vaccine/story-M2DBNJSvvexKIsBrqf6zuM.html
06-11-2020||Pune||119 hotels fined for Covid-19 violations in Maha; Rs 11.90 lakh in fines collected||The state excise department has taken action against 119 hotels between October 7 and November 3, for various Covid-19 violations. A total of Rs 11.90 lakh has been collected in fines. According to the excise department, the action was taken where hotel and bar owners were found wanting in implementing rules related to social distancing and other norms laid down by the state government. In Pune city, 66 establishments were penalised, while 39 were penalised in rural Pune and 14 were penalised in Pimpri- Chinchwad.Santosh Zagade, superintendent, department of excise, said that the violations related to maintenance of hygiene, non- conformance of social distancing norms, not wearing masks, no checking of temperature and a lack of sanitisers. “Diwali is around the corner and we don’t want to take any chances. We have urged the establishments to take necessary safeguards for protection against Covid-19,” he said. In action taken prior to October 6, the state excise department had imposed Rs 2.30 lakh in fines on 23 hotels for Covid-19 norm violations.Sanjay Singh, a bar operator from Aundh, said, “The excise department is carrying out raids to spread fear amongst the establishment for pecuniary gains. These raids must stop as it will ruin the industry.” The Maharashtra government permitted hotels, beer bars, food malls and restaurants to reopen from October 5. The state government made it mandatory for these establishments to follow public safety norms related to the Covid-19 and accordingly issued guidelines to prevent the spread of coronavirus infection due to unnecessary crowding of citizens during normal business activities. All hotels and other hospitality units have been instructed to take suitable measures to restrict any further transmission of Covid-19 while providing the services. The Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) aims to minimise all possible physical contact between staff and guests and maintain social distancing and other preventive and safety measures against Covid-19.The District Collectorate issued a fresh set of guidelines on October 7 which emphasise that the establishments have to ensure only 50 per cent customer seating inside the premises, strictly follow social distancing norms, wearing of masks, using sanitisers, hygienic housekeeping practices and temperature screening of all using thermal guns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/119-hotels-fined-for-covid-19-violations-rs-11-90-lakh-in-fines-collected/story-6TanzvOq89ttcsbn9emIWM.html
06-11-2020||World||EU slaps sanctions on Belarus leader, son and 13 others||The European Union imposed sanctions Friday on the president of Belarus and 14 other officials over their roles in the security crackdown launched during protests of the country’s contested August presidential election.EU headquarters said in a statement that Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko was put on the sanctions list along his son and national security adviser, Viktor Lukashenko. The sanctions ban listed individuals from traveling within the European Union and a freeze on their assets. EU citizens and companies also are forbidden from providing them with funds.Protests have rocked Belarus ever since the Aug. 9 election, and more than 15,000 people in the country have been arrested. The official results returned Lukashenko to power with 80% of the vote and were widely seen as rigged, including by the EU. About 200 disabled people rallied in the capital Minsk on Thursday.In its sanctions listing, the EU said that President Lukashenko “is responsible for the violent repression by the State apparatus carried out before and after the 2020 presidential election, in particular with the dismissal of key opposition candidates, arbitrary arrests and ill-treatment of peaceful demonstrators as well as intimidation and violence against journalists.”The addition of Lukashenko and his associates means that a total of 59 Belarusian officials are subject to the EU sanctions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-slaps-sanctions-on-belarus-leader-son-and-13-others/story-u3Zj9fthtInyKxgMUeNHOO.html
06-11-2020||World||UK revises guidance on business with China, cites ‘national security concerns’||After calling out China for alleged human rights violations in Xinjiang, the Boris Johnson government on Friday issued new guidance to British companies on safely and ethically engaging with China, highlighting “national security concerns”.The UK-China trade and investment relationship is worth £70 billion and Britain is one of the top destinations in Europe for foreign direct investment from China. Several British companies operate in China.Minister for digital and culture Caroline Dinenage said, “The latest statistics show UK-China bilateral trade has exceeded the £70 billion mark for the first time and our digital tech sector is the fifth biggest exporter of services in the world”.“But we recognise the ethical, legal and commercial questions businesses face when they work in China or with Chinese businesses. The UK is determined to support our businesses to engage with China in a way that reflects the UK’s values and takes account of national security concerns”.The guidance sets out key issues digital and tech SMEs should consider as they weigh the benefits and risks of commercial ventures, as well as signposting specialist sources of advice. It asks those dealing with China to be aware of the country’s ‘Civil Military Fusion’, among other issues.Also read: Pompeo provokes China with a pinprick, revokes terror tag for Xinjiang groupOfficials said that the UK government’s concerns include China’s use of facial recognition and predictive computer algorithms for mass surveillance, profiling and repression of ethnic minorities in Xinjiang and elsewhere; automated internet and media surveillance and censorship including in several new ‘smart cities’; and the planned use of technology in the Social Credit System to expand social control and limit individual freedoms.The guidance says, “When setting up your business you should consider the ethical implications of engaging with China on emerging technologies. While there are many opportunities, there is a risk that your company’s technology could be used to violate human rights, posing a significant risk to your business’s reputation”.“The UK Government is committed to upholding human rights and has serious concerns regarding the Chinese State’s use of technologies in ways that violate human rights and harm individuals and society”.“In addition, you should be aware of China’s programme of Civil Military Fusion. As well as ensuring that you are abiding by the relevant legal obligations, you may want to consider the possible reputational consequences if your company’s technology contributes to China’s military development”, it adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-revises-guidance-on-business-with-china-cites-national-security-concerns/story-KP0D1drk7KIPI3bmCTP77K.html
06-11-2020||World||Italy shuts down four regions as Europe tries lighter lockdowns||Luxury fashion boutiques, jewelry shops and most of Milan’s flagship department were shuttered Friday, as the center of Italy’s vibrant financial capital fell into a gray quiet on the first day of a partial lockdown in four regions aimed at stopping the coronavirus’s resurgence.The new restrictions — which led to closures of a patchwork of nonessential businesses — allow a great deal more freedom than Italy’s near-total 10-week lockdown that started in March, but nonetheless brought recriminations from regional governments that feel unfairly targeted. In particular, the south, which was largely spared in the spring, chafed the most, despite concerns that its weaker health care system was especially vulnerable.Italy’s move echoes those in many parts of Europe, where infections are rising again, but governments have been reluctant to impose the kind of nationwide shutdowns they did in the spring because of the terrible economic damage they did. For instance, many European countries have opted to keep schools open — making work easier for parents — while shutting bars and restaurants and many shops.Even the lighter restrictions this time around, however, are drawing stiff criticism — especially in countries like Britain and Italy where they have exacerbated regional tensions.Under Italy’s complicated 21-point formula, the northern regions of Lombardy, Piedmont and Valle d’Aosta and the southern region of Calabria, the toe of Italy’s boot, faced increased restrictions for the next 15 days, including the closure of all nonessential stores, take-out only for bars and restaurants, distance learning for students 12 and over and a ban on leaving hometowns except for work, health or other serious reasons.Sicily and Puglia, two other southern regions, fell into a second tier of restrictions, while the rest of the country maintained more freedom of movement but with a 10 p.m. curfew and restaurants closings at 6 p.m.In Rome, Italy’s health minister faced Parliament to defend the government’s handling of the new phase of the crisis amid concerns the government has too often bypassed lawmakers during the pandemic.“In a great country like Italy, this cannot be the field of a political battle,” Roberto Speranza said, noting that the criteria being applied had been in place since April without dissent. “I say this with all my strength and from my heart: Enough. Don’t fuel polemics.”Speranza said the lockdowns were a necessity as the number of confirmed infections skyrockets and deaths reach highs not seen since the spring.The restrictions took effect the day Italy hit a new all-time high of single-day confirmed infections — 37,809 — and registered the highest number of deaths — 446 — since spring. Lombardy’s latest caseload surged to nearly 10,000, accounting for more than 25% of Italy’s new confirmed infections on Friday.“Maybe people are getting used to seeing 400 dead. That number would have people petrified in front of their TV sets. Now people seem more indifferent,’’ Luca Zerbini, a lawyer drinking a take-out cup of coffee near the Duomo cathedral.In Calabria, the governor vowed to fight the restrictions. And some mayors in the Lombardy in cities that suffered in the first lockdown but are less hard-hit now have pushed for restrictions to vary by province and not by the larger category of region.Milan’s mayor, Giuseppe Sala, rejected such differential treatment within regions, which share a common health care system. “I invite Milanese to stay home as much as possible in these very difficult days,’‘ Sala said Friday.All was quiet in the city, where even the lines that usually form in front of popular takeaway sandwich shops — still allowed to be open — were nowhere to be seen. The hodgepodge of shops considered “necessary” includes hairdressers, cosmetic and perfume stores, florists, and sweet shops alongside grocery stores — but not ice cream parlors or pastry shops. That created the odd situation where the flagship Rinascente department store was open only to customers wanting to access the ground floor for cosmetics, the 7th-floor food court or the penthouse hair salon.That patchwork reflects efforts to balance slowing the virus’s spread with protecting the battered economy — and it can be seen across Europe. Many fear that businesses that suffered in the spring won’t survive new restrictions this time around.In France, bookshops have been shut, and Paris’ landmark English-language store Shakespeare and Company appealed to readers for support. And it got it, receiving 5,000 online orders in one week, compared with the usual 100.But even as politicians keep a wary eye on the economy, they are also concerned about pressure on their strained health systems.Luca Zaia, governor of the northern Italian region of Veneto region, said that the deaths in his region were mostly among people over 70 while most infections were among the young, underlining the necessity for people to observe new rules even in one of the regions with the lightest restrictions.“We are entering the most critical phase,’’ Zaia said, noting that if the situation worsens they will have to halt other medical procedures to find beds for Covid-19 patients.Germany’s health minister has warned of hard times ahead unless the country can “break” the rising trajectory of coronavirus cases, which has doubled the number of patients in intensive care in just 10 days and set a new record of over 21,500 new confirmed cases on Friday.And the French government is supplying quick virus tests to nursing homes around the country and to the nation’s biggest airport, Paris’ Charles de Gaulle. The tests are cheap and fast, but experts say they are also less accurate than the standard ones. Nursing homes in France, Spain and other European countries saw tremendous numbers of deaths in the first surge.“The second wave is here, and it is violent,” French Health Minister Olivier Veran warned Thursday night, while urging people to respect a partial national lockdown.In Denmark, meanwhile, more than a quarter-million people were put on lockdown in a northern region where a mutated variation of the coronavirus infected a mink farm. Although there was no evidence the mutation posed a threat to people, Danish authorities were taking no chances and ordered millions of the animals to be killed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/italy-shuts-down-4-regions-as-europe-tries-lighter-lockdowns/story-s4QQ2rsufvaOvb785DMBBL.html
06-11-2020||World||Covid-19 testing begins in UK’s Liverpool; foreign secy Raab in isolation||Mass testing for Covid-19 for people with or without symptoms began in Liverpool, United Kingdom on Friday as foreign secretary Dominic Raab went into 14-day isolation after being in contact with an individual with the virus and new cases continued to mount across the UK.Nearly 2,000 army personnel are helping roll out the tests in Liverpool, which had one of the largest surges of the virus in recent weeks and has been in the highest alert ‘level 3’ before the lockdown from Thursday. The whole-city pilot may be rolled out elsewhere in the UK.A spokesman for Raab said, “The foreign secretary was today (Thursday) informed that an individual with whom he has been in recent close contact with has tested positive for coronavirus”.“In line with government regulations and NHS track and trace rules, the foreign secretary has taken immediate steps to self-isolate for the required period”, he added. Raab would continue to work remotely.People in Liverpool are being offered a mix of swab tests and new lateral flow tests, which could provide a result in 20 minutes without the need to send them to a laboratory. Test centres have been set up in schools, universities, offices and care homes.Prime Minister Boris Johnson said he was “hugely grateful” to the people of Liverpool for their participation in this pilot, and set out the scale of Covid-19 challenge. “The challenges we face are significant across the UK. The average number of new cases each day is now 22,398, that’s up from 9,716 a month earlier,” he said.“There are now 12,320 patients in hospital, up from 2,602 a month earlier. 1,142 patients are now in mechanical ventilation beds, up from 369 a month earlier. Sadly 492 deaths were reported yesterday. The weekly average number of deaths each day is now 295, up from 53 a month earlier. That’s why new restrictions are in place in each part of the UK”.Also read: Pompeo provokes China with a pinprick, revokes terror tag for Xinjiang groupAddressing the country from Downing Street, Johnson ended with a note of optimism, telling Britons that there is “light at the end of the tunnel”, noting that health professionals now had better treatments and techniques to deal with the virus.“More broadly, there is also the very real chance of safe and effective vaccines. So taking those things together, these scientific advances can show us the way ahead”, he added.As of Thursday night, the UK had recorded 24,141 new cases – nearly five times the daily-rise in April and May – and 378 deaths. The cumulative figures were 1,123,197 cases and 48,120 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-testing-begins-in-uk-s-liverpool-foreign-secy-raab-in-isolation/story-sUOBieZAYrZ6kKrHSWOTvJ.html
06-11-2020||World||Pompeo provokes China with a pinprick, revokes terror tag for Xinjiang group||The United States has revoked the terror tag for the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM), an Islamic extremist organization that has been blamed by Beijing for attacks in its western region of Xinjiang. US secretary of state Mike Pompeo signed off on the order removing ETIM from the list of terrorist groups on October 20. The order was, however, made public on Thursday.The ETIM is a small Islamic separatist group believed to be active in Xinjiang province, home to China’s ethnic minority Uighur Muslims. It was founded by Hasan Mahsum, a Uyghur from Xinjiang’s Kashgar region, who was shot dead by Pakistani soldiers in 2003.The group, which was once alleged to have links with al Qaeda and the Taliban, however, continues to be designated under the United Nations Security Council resolution 1822.Pompeo’s decision is seen in the context of the Donald Trump administration’s sharp criticism of China’s human rights abuses in Xinjiang, formally called the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region.Rights groups say China uses the ETIM threat as an excuse to impose restrictions on Uyghurs and discredit human rights activists outside China.Beijing frequently blames the shadowy group for inciting violence in the country’s far west, saying the group wants to create an independent state of East Turkestan in Xinjiang.As news of Pompeo’s order move emerged on Thursday, China’s foreign ministry insisted that the ETIM had long been engaged in terrorist and violent activities and posed serious threats to the security and stability in China, the region and beyond. “China deplores and firmly opposes the US decision… Fighting the ETIM is a consensus of the international community and an important part of the international endeavour against terrorism,” foreign ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin said.Dolkun Isa, president of World Uyghur Congress, the world International umbrella organization promoting Uyghur human rights, said China justified its mass detention of 1 to 3 million Uyghurs in concentration camps as a counter-terror measure. “Today’s revocation removes any Chinese justification that it is fighting terrorism in East Turkestan,” he told Radio Free Asia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-pinpricks-china-lifts-terror-tag-for-east-turkestan-islamic-movement/story-u92WMdHBbyCzl0jKqI5ZmJ.html
06-11-2020||World||South Korea, Japan, US security officials discuss key areas of cooperation||Top security officials from South Korea, the United States and Japan held virtual talks to discuss denuclearisation of the Korean Peninsula and security cooperation after the US elections, the South Korean presidential administration said on Friday.The talks were held by US National Security Adviser Robert O’Brien, South Korean National Security Chief Suh Hoon and Japanese National Security Council Secretary General Shigeru Kitamura.“During the talks, the three sides discussed various security issues, including the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula and the establishment of the peace settlement, and agreed to continue cooperation on these issues. They also exchanged views on the situation on the Korean Peninsula and discussed an agenda for a possible resumption of dialogue with North Korea,” the statement from the presidential administration of South Korea said.The three countries agreed that the trilateral security cooperation should go on “with no vacuum” regardless of the outcome of the US presidential election.The South Korean side emphasised the need to resume the US-North Korea dialogue as soon as possible.Representatives of the three countries also agreed to strengthen cooperation in the fight against the coronavirus and development of Covid-19 vaccines and treatments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-korea-japan-us-security-officials-discuss-key-areas-of-cooperation/story-O1NeAvGUljAQ6xtmEnfyPK.html
06-11-2020||World||Developed countries inch closer to annual global climate finance goal||Wealthy countries have ramped up financing to help developing countries cut carbon emissions and cope with the impact of climate change, although it is unclear if they will meet their goal of $100 billion this year.In its annual update on climate finance for developing countries, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) said donor governments contributed $78.9 billion in 2018, the latest year for which data are available. This was an 11% increase from $71.2 billion in 2017. The funds include loans, grants and a small amount of equity, plus private investments which public bodies helped mobilise. Developed countries agreed at the United Nations in 2009 to together contribute $100 billion each year by 2020 in climate finance to poorer countries, many of whom are grappling with rising seas, storms and droughts made worse by climate change.The $100 billion goal remains within reach, the OECD said, even though mobilised private finance, which totalled $14.6 billion in 2018, hardly increased from 2017-2018.“That means they’d need more public finance to meet that target,” said Simon Buckle, head of the OECD’s climate change division. “That’s not impossible, based on this trend.”With the coronavirus pandemic upending investments this year, the OECD said data were not yet available on how the pandemic has affected climate finance.“Developed countries haven’t yet delivered on their promise, both in terms of quantity and quality,” said Mohamed Adow, director of Nairobi-based think-tank Power Shift Africa.Adow urged developed countries to increase support for “climate adaptation” - such as defences against wilder weather, or methods to adapt farming practices during droughts and floods.Only a fifth of global contributions went on adaptation last year, while most support focussed on cutting greenhouse gas emissions in developing countries. The European Union and its member countries are, taken together, the biggest provider of climate finance to developing countries. The EU said last week it also increased such contributions in 2019, to 21.9 billion euros.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/developed-countries-inch-closer-to-annual-global-climate-finance-goal/story-6XCRneI1KnFV6ieZESS15H.html
06-11-2020||World||Jacinda Ardern sworn in as New Zealand Prime Minister for second term||New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern was sworn in for a second term Friday, as final election results showed her landslide victory was even bigger than previously thought.The charismatic leader and her ministers made their oaths of office in English and Maori during a ceremony at Wellington’s Government House.“I would say simply that sitting at this table is Aotearoa New Zealand,” Ardern said, gesturing to her gathered team, in which women and Maori are strongly represented.“They collectively represent a range of different perspectives, huge talent, enormous experience and, as you would expect in any time of crisis, a huge commitment to serving this country.”Ardern, 40, leveraged her success battling Covid-19 into an unprecedented majority at the October 17 election, leading her centre-left Labour Party to its biggest win since World War II.Final results released Friday showed Ardern won 50.0 percent of the vote, up from 49.0 on election night, giving her 65 seats in the 120-strong parliament, rather than 64.The main opposition National Party saw its seats reduced from 35 to 33, prompting campaign director Gerry Brownlee to step down as deputy party leader.Ardern said she had a clear mandate for reform, although her priorities were containing Covid-19 and rebuilding the virus-damaged economy.‘Incrementalist’ reformThe pandemic is one of a string of emergencies that tested Ardern’s leadership during a torrid first term, after she rode to an unexpected victory in 2017 polls on the back of a wave of support dubbed “Jacinda-mania”. She displayed both empathy and decisive action on gun control after a white supremacist gunman killed 51 Muslim worshippers in the Christchurch mosques attack last year.Ardern again found herself comforting a shocked nation when a volcanic eruption at White Island, also known as Whakaari, killed 21 people and left dozens more with horrific burns.While praised for her crisis management, Ardern was criticised during her first term for failing to deliver on key promises such as improving housing affordability, protecting the environment and reducing child poverty.Since the election, Ardern has signalled she wants reform, but not at a rate that would alienate the centrist voters who switched support to Labour in the poll.“We must make sure we represent all those who elected us, be they in city seats, rural seats, general seats or Maori seats,” she told reporters Friday.She had flagged action on infrastructure projects including increased state housing and more renewable energy, as well as a determination to tackle issues such as climate change, poverty and inequality.Edward Elder, a teaching fellow specialising in political communication at the University of Auckland, said Ardern was likely to take an “incrementalist” approach to reform.“It really depends on what the Labour government thinks they can implement to create long-term change, rather than overreaching, facing a harsh backlash, and having National come in after 2023 and simply reversing all their decisions,” he told AFP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/jacinda-ardern-sworn-in-as-new-zealand-prime-minister-for-second-term/story-wmqAlvWVt4feIrknG2Y9aJ.html
06-11-2020||World||German police search homes of 4 people suspected of having ties with Vienna attacker||German police said on Friday they were conducting searches in several German towns in connection with four people believed to have ties to the suspected Vienna attacker who killed four people when he opened fire on bystanders and bars on Monday.Germany’s BKA criminal police said on Twitter that they were searching homes and businesses in the German towns of Osnabrueck, Kassel and in the district of Pinneberg near Hamburg.“There is no initial suspicion that the four people affected by today’s measures took part in the attack but there are believed to have been links with the suspected attacker,” they said. (Reporting by Michelle Adair; editing by Thomas Seythal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/german-police-search-homes-of-four-people-suspected-of-having-ties-with-vienna-attacker/story-sGdqjfNrlZcvN79iSSRMOK.html
06-11-2020||World||US Election 2020: Protests heat up as counting drags on in Trump-Biden cliffhanger||Backers of President Donald Trump ramped up demonstrations on Thursday night against an election they believe was rigged or being stolen, clashing with counter-protesters as vote counting continued in battleground states.Click here for full US Election 2020 coverageIn Arizona, one of five US battleground states where votes were still being counted in the too-close-to-call race between Trump and Democratic challenger Joe Biden, Trump supporters massed outside the Maricopa County Elections Department in Phoenix. Some briefly chased a man who held up a sign depicting the president as a Nazi pig behind a stage where right-wing talk-radio host Alex Jones was speaking.Also Read | Biden catches up with Trump in key states, prez vents steam againPolice intervened and broke up the altercation after the man and his small group of counter-demonstrators were surrounded by Trump activists, according to a Reuters witness. There were no reports of injuries.“They are trying to steal the election but America knows what happened and it’s fighting back,” Jones told the throng of some 300 people. “1776 is the answer to 1984,” he said, an apparent reference to the US Declaration of Independence and the dystopian George Orwell novel.Also Read | US Election 2020: Trump to explore more legal options as Biden inches closer to presidencyProtests have been scattered, small and largely peaceful since Americans went to the polls on Tuesday.Facebook Inc said it had taken down a rapidly growing group the social media site said pro-Trump activists had posted with violent rhetoric calling for “boots on the ground” to protect the integrity of the election.Biden supporters have adopted the slogan “count every vote,” saying a complete and accurate tabulation in the remaining battleground states would show the former vice president had won the 270 electoral votes needed to win. Also Read | US Election 2020: ‘Chill Donald, Chill’, Greta Thunberg settles score with Trump on TwitterTrump has said repeatedly without evidence that mail-in votes are prone to fraud, although election experts say that is rare in US elections. PENNSYLVANIA PROTESTSBoth sides held rallies in Philadelphia on Thursday, where election staffers slowly counted thousands of mail-in ballots that could decide Pennsylvania’s crucial 20 Electoral College votes. Trump activists waved flags and carried signs saying: “Vote stops on Election Day” and “Sorry, polls are closed” as Biden supporters danced to music behind a barricade across the street.“We can’t allow the ballot counters to be intimidated,” said retired social worker Bob Posuney, a 70-year-old Biden supporter wearing a “count every vote” T-shirt as Marvin Gaye’s “What’s Going On” filled the air.Late on Thursday, Philadelphia police said they were investigating an alleged plot to attack the city’s Pennsylvania Convention Center, where votes were being counted. Police took at least one man into custody and seized a weapon. No injuries were reported.In Harrisburg, about 100 Trump supporters gathered on the steps of the Pennsylvania State Capitol Building on Thursday afternoon as part of a “Stop the Steal” demonstration organized by Virginia conservative activist Scott Presler. “This is not a rally supporting a particular candidate,” Presler said. “This is a rally fighting for two things: truth and justice.” He said in an interview that he planned to raise funds for an audit of the state’s vote count.Earlier on Thursday, a state appellate court ruled more Republican observers could enter the building in Philadelphia where poll workers were counting ballots. In Milwaukee, some 50 Trump supporters gathered in front of a city building where votes were being counted, blasting country music, waving flags and carrying signs reading “Recount” and “Rigged”.Roughly a dozen counter-protesters arrived after an hour, shouting “Black lives matter” and “say their names,” referring to the victims of police brutality. Others threw eggs at the Trump supporters from a passing car.“My country’s future is what brings me out here tonight,” said Mitchell Landgraf, a 21-year-old construction worker who cast his first vote in a presidential election for Trump. “I’m afraid if it goes one way that this country will go downhill fast.” At least 400 protesters gathered outside the Clark County Election Department in Las Vegas. Loud patriotic anthems blared over speakers as scores waved giant Trump and American flags. Biden has a lead of just over 11,000 votes in Nevada as counting continued.In Washington, D.C., a procession of cars and bicycles sponsored by activists from a group called Shutdown DC paraded slowly through the streets of the capital to protest what they called “an attack on the democratic process” by Trump and his “enablers,” according to its website. (Reporting by Joseph Tanfani in Philadelphia; Nathan Layne in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania; Maria Caspani in New York; Katanga Johnson in Atlanta; Mimi Dwyer in Phoenix, Arizona; Brad Brooks in Las Vegas; Gabriella Borter in Milwaukee, Wisconsin; Jonathan Allen in New York; Michael Martina in Detroit; Kanishka Singh in Bengaluru and Dan Whitcomb in Los Angeles; Writing by Dan Whitcomb; Editing by Jonathan Oatis, Bill Tarrant, Dan Grebler and Lincoln Feast.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-election-2020-protests-heat-up-as-counting-drags-on-in-trump-biden-cliffhanger/story-4OOTWxyrY6FhjpviTg1BQI.html
06-11-2020||World||Top Chinese official praises Carrie Lam for keeping stability in Hong Kong||Hong Kong leader Carrie Lam received credit from a top Chinese official on Friday for restoring order and reviving the economy in the semi-autonomous territory.Vice Premier Han Zheng, meeting Lam on the last day of her four-day visit to Beijing, said that her government had “overcome all kinds of difficulties and dealt with the challenges.”Hong Kong was wracked by protests last year demanding fully democratic elections and opposing China’s expanding influence in city affairs. Lam, who was picked as leader by a committee dominated by pro-Beijing members, was accused of being too close to the central government.China responded by enacting a national security law for Hong Kong earlier this year that has curtailed the protests, which were already dwindling because of Covid-19 restrictions on public gatherings.Han, one of seven members of the ruling Communist Party’s top leadership body, praised Lam’s government for its handling of the pandemic, easing the economic burden on the population, implementing the national security law and protecting the stability of Hong Kong.Lam was accompanied by several top city officials, which she said demonstrates the breadth of Hong Kong’s integration into China’s national development.She was heading to Guangdong, the southern province that borders Hong Kong, later Friday for economic talks on the Greater Bay Area, a region that also includes nearby Macao.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/top-chinese-official-praises-carrie-lam-for-keeping-stability-in-hong-kong/story-AayNTrAMXEIuUo5bF2zmVJ.html
06-11-2020||World||US Election 2020: Trump to explore more legal options as Biden inches closer to presidency||Democratic leader Joe Biden appeared to be a step away from winning the US presidential election as the latest count of votes from a handful of battleground states indicated that the re-election chances of incumbent Republican President Donald Trump are getting slim by the hour.By late Thursday night, Biden -- who bagged 253 seats as against Trump’s 213 -- appeared to be nearing the magical figure of 270 out of the 538 electoral college votes.In Georgia, which has 16 electoral college votes, Trump’s lead has reduced to 1,902 votes. In Pennsylvania, having 20 electoral college votes, Trump’s lead dropped down to 42,142 votes. With 213 electoral college votes, Trump is far away from the magical figure of 270.“We continue to feel very good about where things stand. And we have no doubt that when the count is finished, Senator (Kamala) Harris and I will be the winners,” Biden, told reporters in Delaware. While the counting process was going on, he urged fellow Americans to stay calm.“I ask people to stay calm. The process is working. The count is being completed,” the 77-year-old former US vice president said.At a White House news conference, Trump said he will go to court against electoral malpractice. The Trump Campaign has already filed lawsuits in Pennsylvania, Michigan, Georgia and Nevada. He has demanded recounting of votes in Wisconsin.“Donald Trump is going to court to stop votes from being counted. We have assembled the largest election protection effort in history to fight back and need your help,” Biden tweeted after Trump’s news conference at the White House.Trump alleged that the Democrats are stealing democracy.“Our goal is to defend the integrity of the election. We will not allow the corruption to steal such an important election or in the election for that matter and we can’t allow anybody to silence our voters and manufacture results,” Trump told reporters at the White House.“There is tremendous litigation going on and this is a case where they are trying to steal an election,” the 74-year-old president said. Biden dismissed the charges.“No one is going to take our democracy away from us. Not now, not ever. America has come too far, fought too many battles, and endured too much to let that happen,” he said in another tweet.According to The New York Times, major news channels ABC, CBS and NBC all cut away as Trump’s “false” statements mounted.“Biden’s path becomes clearer as vote count continues in decisive states,” The Washington Post said. In an editorial, the daily said, “There is zero — zero — evidence of fraud or corruption.” “What Mr Trump sees as nefarious is something more mundane though undoubtedly painful for him: He is losing. On election night in some states, he held a lead in partial counts. Then, as mail-in ballots were counted, his lead was ‘whittled away’, as he said. The explanation is obvious to everyone except, apparently, the president,” it said.The editorial further noted that Trump railed so much against mail-in voting before the election that few Republicans voted that way. “Most of the mailed ballots, therefore, favour Democrat Joe Biden. Now officials are counting the votes — with observers watching, contrary to another Trump lie; with both Republican and Democratic election officials participating, contrary to another Trump lie; and in accordance with the rules, contrary to yet another Trump lie,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-election-2020-trump-to-explore-more-legal-options-as-biden-inches-closer-to-presidency/story-ufRxjR8AtGSPWX7OBlVTLJ.html
06-11-2020||World||US Election 2020: Why all eyes are on Pennsylvania, Georgia and Arizona||The five states of Arizona, Georgia, Pennsylvania, North Carolina and Nevada will play a decisive role in choosing the 46th president of the United States. Electoral officers across these and several other states are continuously tabulating votes in order to announce the outcome even as they face opposition from Trump supporters in Arizona and Pennsylvania.All eyes remain on Arizona, Pennsylvania and Nevada as a win in any of these three states for Joe Biden would bring him closer to winning the race to the White House.US Presidential Elections 2020: Click here for full coverage of the US Presidential ElectionsSeveral lawmakers have expressed fear over the safety and security of the poll officials as these battleground states have yet to declare the results. Arizona Secretary of State Katie Hobbs while speaking with CNN said that protesters were causing delay in the tabulation of votes. Hobbs said, “(Protesters) are causing delay and disruption and preventing those employees from doing their job.”WATCH | US Elections 2020: Biden ahead, Trump down but not out; what next?Nevada’s Clark County registrar Joe Gloria who was heckled by a protester on Thursday during a press conference said, “I can tell you that my wife and my mother are very concerned for me.”Here is a closer look at the states who could decide the winner of the US Presidential Election 2020:• Arizona state officials say that there are close to 250,000 votes which are yet to be counted, according to a report by the Associated Press. The Associated Press and Fox News have predicted that Joe Biden will win the state. According to the New York Times, Biden is currently leading in Arizona by over 45,000 votes. All eyes are on Maricopa County which will release the next update on Friday evening (IST). A win in Arizona could secure the presidential victory for Joe Biden.Biden catches up with Trump in key states, prez vents steam again• Georgia has seen a surge in mail-in ballots and according to the New York Times, Donald Trump is leading by 1,700 votes pitting him in a close race with Joe Biden. Georgia’s secretary of state office told the Associated Press that 18,936 absentee ballots across seven counties are yet to be counted. With a younger demographic and Atlanta becoming home to several younger electorates, Republican hold is loosening over the state. Georgia officials said that counting could go on until Friday evening if needed as ballots from US Army officials overseas need to be counted.US Election 2020: Trump predicts ‘lot of litigation’ in fight to keep his job•Trump’s lead in Pennsylvania has decreased by Friday evening, a state where he was leading by a huge margin in the initial rounds of counting. Biden is trailing by 22,000 votes in Pennsylvania with mail-in votes still being counted. Biden and the Democrats are trying to reclaim the three states Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania in a bid to rebuild the Blue Wall. Trump won all three states in 2016. Election officials have also said that there are 1,700 ballots which were found by them and they were being delivered for counting. Officials expect most of the ballots will be counted by Friday, according to the New York Times.‘They can try to steal from us’: Donald Trump fumes in White House press briefing• North Carolina could be among the last states to declare who has won the state’s electoral vote. North Carolina will consider receiving mail-in ballots till November 12 if they are postmarked on Tuesday according to the Associated Press. Though Trump appears likely to win the state, with 5% of votes still left uncounted there is a little chance for Biden to take the lead as more than 110,000 ballots and provisional mail-in ballots remain to be counted. The state will officially announce the results• Biden is leading in Nevada, which has been a Democrat stronghold for the last decade, by only 11,000 votes which means with mail-in ballots coming in there are chances that Trump could take the lead as more than 190,000 ballots remain uncounted. Nevada, like North Carolina, will consider receiving mail-in ballots till November 12 if they are postmarked on Tuesday. Nevada’s Clark County has also been the Centre of widespread protests by Trump supporters who have alleged voter fraud in the state. The timing of final count remains uncertain as mail-in ballots pour in resulting in a delayed outcome.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-elections-2020-why-all-eyes-are-on-pennsylvania-georgia-and-arizona/story-4UrR8pYWKskuRyYM5fyljO.html
06-11-2020||World||Biden catches up with Trump in key states, prez vents steam again||Democratic nominee Joe Biden caught up with Donald Trump in Georgia, wiping out the US president’s early lead of hundreds of thousands of votes in the presidential election.Biden had slashed Trump’s lead in Pennsylvania by a few more thousands of votes as the president had raged in a monologue from the White House briefing room earlier at around 7 pm, “If you count the legal votes, I easily win,” he said, adding later, re-airing an old but unfounded grievance, “they are trying to steal an election” and that there was an effort under way to “rig” the elections. He made these claims without presenting any evidence.Daniel Dale, the CNN fact-checker, was aghast. “I’ve read or watched all of Trump’s speeches since 2016. This is the most dishonest speech he has ever given.”Even close Republican allies were publicly uncomfortable with the American president’s wild allegations. Chris Christie, the former Republican governor of New Jersey who had helped Trump prepare for his presidential debates, called for the president to produce evidence.“Keep the faith, folks,” Biden tweeted shortly after the president wrapped up his angry speech that was packed with unproven allegations of election fraud and showed an astonishing lack of understanding of the US election process. Mysteriously, he had said, his early leads in some states disappeared at one stage. Those were because of absentee ballots, which were counted later. It might have been a deliberate ploy, though, to muddy the waters.The race changed incrementally and surely in Biden’s direction all through Thursday, Day 2 of counting of votes. The former vice-president kept piling up his votes in Pennsylvania and Georgia, the former a well-known battleground state and latter a solidly Republican state that has not voted Democratic in a presidential election since 1992, when Bill Clinton won it in a three-way fight.As President Trump’s leads collapsed in these two states, he gained on Biden in Arizona, which some news organisations had already called for the former vice-president.The tally of Electoral College votes, which will decide the White House race, remained unchanged. Biden was still at 264 in Associated Press’s tracker, which has called Arizona for Biden, and Trump stayed at 214. They need 270 to win. The popular vote, which Biden leads by 4 million at this stage, is of no consequence.Sometime in the evening, with everything happening in counting centres, on streets and on television, Mick Mulvaney, Trump’s former chief of staff, injected a new element into the narrative. The president might lose this election but he will not go away and may make another run again in 2024. He attributed it to his former boss’s deep dislike of losing.The dread of defeat, however, had been overtaken by a sense of desperation in the Trump world. The president’s elder son, Don Trump Jr, demanded Republicans who would be on the ballot in 2024 to rally around the president and support his flailing re-election chances. His younger brother Eric Trump patronisingly thanked senior Republican Senator Lindsey Graham’s message of support for “having a spine”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-catches-up-with-trump-in-key-states-prez-vents-steam-again/story-S3C609LVJYv0XAJnoVdPlM.html
06-11-2020||World||Myanmar Election: Nobel winner Suu Kyi’s party expected to win second term||Myanmar’s citizens go to the polls Sunday in an effort to sustain the fledgling democracy they helped install just five years ago.There are about 37 million registered voters, though turnout is expected to suffer because of a recent surge in coronavirus cases.In 2015, excitement was high over the opportunity to end more than five decades of army-directed rule. The National League of Democracy party of Nobel Peace Prize laureate Aung San Suu Kyi roared to a landslide election victory, and she became her country’s leader after many hard years at the forefront of a non-violent struggle against military dictatorships that won international admiration.This year, her party is expected to again top the polls, but some critics feel her administration has failed to embrace democratic principles.Chances for real reform were always dicey, as the 2008 constitution drafted under the military assures it of enough seats in parliament to block charter changes. Key ministries are also under the control of the military.Critics accuse 75-year-old Suu Kyi and her party of being more concerned about entrenching itself in power than encouraging a broad-based democracy.“This time, neither Aung San Suu Kyi nor her party is bringing democracy to Myanmar. Instead, they are trying to bring in a one-party democracy system,” charged Khin Zaw Win, director of the Tampadipa Institute, a Yangon-based policy advocacy group.Enfeebling other parties has meant there has been little real debate about policies during the campaign. Myanmar needs a better political mix, he said.Even the voting process has become enmeshed in controversy, as the state election commission has been accused of conniving with Suu Kyi’s ruling party by canceling voting in some areas where parties critical of the government were certain to win seats.The Union Election Commission insisted the voting was canceled because of armed conflict with ethnic guerrillas in those areas.The decision was one of several points criticized this past week by Thomas Andrews, the U.N. special rapporteur for human rights in Myanmar.Buddhist-majority Myanmar, he said, would not be able to hold free and fair elections “as long as ... the right to vote is denied based on race, ethnicity or religion, as it is with the Rohingya.”Long-standing prejudice against the Muslim Rohingya minority, whom many consider to have immigrated illegally from South Asia even though their families have lived in Myanmar for generations, has deprived most of them of the rights of citizenship.Western friends of Myanmar were shocked at the brutal 2017 counter-insurgency campaign by Myanmar’s army that drove about 740,000 Rohingya to flee into neighboring Bangladesh, drawing accusations of genocide.It also sent Suu Kyi’s reputation with Western admirers into a tailspin when she failed to restrain the security forces. But for most people in Myanmar, the Rohingya are not an issue in the election.Andrews also said opposition political parties claim they are denied access to state media and their messages have been censored for criticizing government policies.Measures to control the coronavirus severely restricted traditional large-scale campaigning by all parties, but Suu Kyi benefits from frequent reports in state media about her carrying out her official duties, and from her regular updates about fighting the coronavirus streamed on her Facebook page.Her administration had already been criticized by free speech advocates. It scrapped some censorship and licensing laws, but aggressively employs defamation and telecommunications laws against journalists and activists critical of the government and the military.Failure of much-touted plans to reconcile with the country’s fractious ethnic minorities is another dent in Suu Kyi’s reputation. Ethnic minority groups, mainly in border areas, have for decades been engaged in on-again, off-again armed struggle for autonomy.Ethnic political parties in 2015 worked out tactical agreements with the NLD to ensure victory against the military-backed Union Solidarity and Development Party, the main challenger to Suu Kyi’s party.This year, disappointed with Suu Kyi’s failure to seal a deal expanding their political rights, they will be pushing only their own candidates.Nevertheless, Suu Kyi remains the country’s most popular political figure by far.“I think it is really the personal support, even love, that many people have for Aung San Suu Kyi herself, almost irrespective of how the government administration performs, how the economy performs and so on,” Yangon-based political analyst Richard Horsey said of her appeal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-election-nobel-winner-suu-kyi-s-party-expected-to-win-second-term/story-k4AtNVK178pNrVvWXrEptN.html
06-11-2020||World||Lahore metro pays huge salaries to Chinese staff, impacting morale of local employees: Report||Lahore [Pakistan], November 6 (ANI): The Chinese staff recruited by the Punjab Mass Transit Authority for Orange Line Metro Train (OLMT) project is getting huge salaries in comparison to their Pakistani employees, The News International reported.The huge disparity in the salaries is impacting the morale of the Pakistani staff, who are also given a different grade system than the Chinese. Besides, even as the Chinese staff is being paid in Yuan, the locals are getting their salaries in Pakistani rupees (PKR).“On Wednesday, the value of 1 CNY against 1 PKR was equal to Rs 24.02. According to the data of the salaries of 93 Chinese working at the OLMT project, the Chinese staff is highly paid. If the salaries of Pakistani officials working on the same/equivalent seats are compared with those of Chinese staff, the Pakistan employees are getting mere peanuts. According to data, a Chinese-origin deputy chief executive officer/CFO/director with grade L2 is being paid 136,000 CNY per month which is equal to over Rs 3.26 million. There were three positions and all were filled with Chinese. No Pakistani was hired on this designation,” The News International stated.While a Chinese official posted to the DGM rank gets 83,000 CNY per month, equivalent to more than Rs 1.9 million per month, Pakistani official Umer Chishti, who holds the position of DGM Equipment and Maintenance, receive merely Rs 625,000 per month.The News further reported that as many as 43 people of Chinese origin were recruited on the slots of technicians/train operators and each person is being paid 47,500 CNY, equal to over Rs 1.13 million.However, a locally recruited train operator/train crew gets only Rs 60,000.Giving another example of the disparity in salaries, The News International said while 12 people of Chinese origin working on the slot of train dispatcher/train crew are getting 57,000 CNY each, equal to Rs 1.36m, the locally recruited employees working on the OLMT project are getting much lower salaries.The Pakistani employees have demanded a salary hike from the government keeping in view the salary of their Chinese counterparts.Meanwhile, Uzair Shah, General Manager (operations) of Punjab Mass Transit Authority, has been quoted as saying that the morale of Pakistanis working at OLMT would not be down if they compared their salaries with their local counterparts. He added that the comparison in salaries between the Chinese and Pakistani employees cannot be made. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/lahore-metro-pays-huge-salaries-to-chinese-staff-impacting-morale-of-local-employees-report/story-8OpyQ9V5Pm9AVgo5pSXaxJ.html
06-11-2020||World||‘Just sitting on sidelines’: Donald Trump Junior attacks father’s fellow Republican Nikki Haley||In an apparent attack on popular Indian-American Republican politician Nikki Haley, Donald Trump Jr has accused that “2024 GOP hopefuls” are “sitting on the sidelines” and not speaking out against the “fraud” in counting of votes as claimed by his father and US President Donald Trump.Click here for full US Election 2020 coverageTrump, 74, is trailing behind his Democratic rival Joe Biden, who is nearing the magical figure of 270 electoral votes to win the race to the White House. The former US vice president has so far bagged 253 votes as compared to 213 won by Trump, according to latest US media projections. To win the election, a candidate has to win at least 270 electoral college votes out of the 538 up for grabs. The incumbent president has claimed without presenting any evidence that there has been “fraud” in counting of votes and he will legally challenge the election result. “All of a sudden everything just stopped. This is a fraud on the American public. This is an embarrassment to our country. We were getting ready to win this election. Frankly, we did win this election...Our goal now is to ensure integrity, for the good of this nation...This is a major fraud on our nation. We want law to be used in a proper manner. So we’ll be going to the US Supreme Court,” Trump told his supporters on Wednesday. Responding to a tweet on Thursday, Trump Jr said, “This is an important point! Everyone should be watching who is actually fighting this flagrant nonsense and who is sitting on the sidelines. Republicans have been weak for decades which has allowed for the left to do these things. Let’s end that trend once and for all.” He was responding to a Twitter user who wrote, “Where are the so-called future of the GOP? Nikki Haley is doing what?” In a series of tweets later, Trump Jr said, “The total lack of action from virtually all of the ‘2024 GOP hopefuls’ is pretty amazing. They have a perfect platform to show that they’re willing & able to fight but they will cower to the media mob instead. Don’t worry @realDonaldTrump will fight & they can watch as usual!” The 48-year-old former US Ambassador to the United Nations, Haley is seen as a potential Republican candidate for president in 2024. She also has the distinction of being the first ever Indian-American Cabinet ranking official in any administration. Haley, who had campaigned for Trump during the just concluded presidential election, later tweeted, “We all owe @realDonaldTrump for his leadership of conservative victories for Senate, House, & state legislatures.” “He (President Trump) and the American people deserve transparency & fairness as the votes are counted. The law must be followed. We have to keep the faith that the truth will prevail,” she added. PTI YAS/LKJ SCY AKJ SCY SCY||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/just-sitting-on-sidelines-donald-trump-junior-attacks-father-s-fellow-republican-nikki-haley/story-EAi0DRoleeglSZntzhJ9wN.html
06-11-2020||World||Vladimir Putin may step down next year because of health reasons, claims report||Russian President Vladimir Putin may step down early 2021 as he has possible symptoms of Parkinson’s Disease, reports claimed.Analysts have gone through the recent footages of Putin and noted that the 68-year-old president appears to be in pain; with his legs moving constantly and fingers twitching.“There is a family, it has a great influence on him. He intends to make public his handover plans in January,” Moscow political scientist Professor Valery Solovei has told The Sun. Speculations are rife that gymnast Alina Kabaeva, Putin’s rumoured long-time lover, and his two daughters Maria Vorontsova and Katerina Tikhonova are urging him to step down and take care of his health. The speculation comes at a time when Russian lawmakers have submitted a legislation that would grant former presidents lifetime immunity from criminal prosecution .At present, president can’t be held liable for crimes as long as they hold the office. A parliamentary working group, assessing Putin’s constitutional reforms, proposed to extend this immunity beyond their terms of office.Putin, who has been ruling for two decades either as prime minister or president, is slated to be in power till 2014. He has recently proposed constitutional reforms which could keep him in power until 2036. Nearly 78 per cent of Russian voters backed constitutional reforms, which also include a ban on same-sex marriage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/vladimir-putin-may-step-down-next-year-because-of-health-reasons-claims-report/story-OJiWWleZvaHbL2HXjHT5iI.html
06-11-2020||World||US Election 2020: Trump predicts ‘lot of litigation’ in fight to keep his job||President Donald Trump is looking at a political map in which he might have to persuade the Supreme Court to set aside votes in two or more states to prevent Joe Biden from becoming president.Click here for full US Election 2020 coverageThat’s a substantially different scenario than in the contested presidential election of 2000, which was effectively settled by the Supreme Court. Then, the entire fight was over Florida’s electoral votes and involved a recount as opposed to trying to halt the initial counting of ballots.Trump’s campaign and Republicans already are mounting legal challenges in several states, although most are small-scale lawsuits that do not appear to affect many votes.Judges in Georgia and Michigan quickly dismissed campaign lawsuits Thursday, undercutting a campaign legal strategy to attack the integrity of the voting process in states where the result could mean Trump’s defeat.The rulings came as Biden inched closer to the 270 Electoral College votes needed to win the White House.Trump and his campaign promised even more legal action, making unsubstantiated allegations of election fraud.Speaking in the White House briefing room Thursday, the president launched into a litany of claims, without proof, about how Democrats were trying to unfairly deprive him of a second term. “But we think there’ll be a lot of litigation because we can’t have an election stolen like this,” Trump said, suggesting that the Supreme Court might eventually decide the election.Biden, for his part, has said he expects to win the election, but he counseled patience Thursday, saying: “Each ballot must be counted.”Earlier Thursday, a Biden campaign lawyer called the lawsuits meritless, more political strategy than legal. “I want to emphasize that for their purposes these lawsuits don’t have to have merit. That’s not the purpose. ... It is to create an opportunity for them to message falsely about what’s taking place in the electoral process,” lawyer Bob Bauer said, accusing the Trump campaign of “continually alleging irregularities, failures of the system and fraud without any basis.”Trump is used to suing and being sued. A USA Today analysis found that he and his businesses were involved in at least 3,500 state and federal court actions in the three decades before he became president.In one case dismissed Thursday, a Michigan judge noted that the state’s ballot count is over as she tossed the campaign’s lawsuit to get a closer look at local elections officials as they process absentee ballots.In Georgia, a state judge dismissed a case over concerns about 53 absentee ballots in Chatham County after elections officials in the Savannah-area county testified that all of those ballots had been received on time. Campaign officials said earlier they were considering similar challenges in a dozen other counties around the state.In Pennsylvania, meanwhile, the Trump campaign won an appellate ruling to get party and campaign observers closer to election workers who are processing mail-in ballots in Philadelphia.But the order did not affect the counting of ballots that is proceeding in Pennsylvania and elsewhere, as elections officials are dealing with an avalanche of mail ballots driven by fears of voting in person during a pandemic.Trump campaign officials, meanwhile, accused Democrats of trying to steal the election, despite no evidence anything of the sort was taking place.Trump campaign manager Bill Stepien, in a call with reporters Thursday morning, said that “every night the president goes to bed with a lead” and every night new votes “are mysteriously found in a sack.” It is quite common in presidential elections to have vote counting continue after election day.Trump’s campaign has also announced that it will ask for a recount in Wisconsin. Stepien previously cited “irregularities in several Wisconsin counties,” without providing specifics.The Trump campaign filed a new federal lawsuit after hours Thursday in Nevada, alleging that ineligible votes were cast in the Las Vegas area, the biggest Democratic stronghold in an otherwise predominantly GOP state.The Associated Press called Wisconsin and Michigan for Biden on Wednesday. The AP has not called Georgia, Nevada or Pennsylvania.The president’s lawyers have asked to intervene in a pending Republican appeal to the Supreme Court over the three-day extension for the receipt and counting of mailed ballots ordered by Pennsylvania’s top court. Democrats in the state told the justices Thursday that they should put off granting the request because they “may well not need to hear and decide” the matter if Pennsylvania is not critical to the outcome or the late-arriving ballots wouldn’t make a difference.___Associated Press writers Jill Colvin in Washington, Ed White in Detroit, Marc Levy in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, Maryclaire Dale in Philadelphia, and Sudhin Thanawala in Atlanta contributed to this report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-election-2020-trump-predicts-lot-of-litigation-in-fight-to-keep-his-job/story-SRzUq0mB0jdeXMIDqYbxHL.html
06-11-2020||World||AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine to begin clinical trials in China: Executive||AstraZeneca Plc plans to start early and mid-stage clinical trials of its Covid-19 vaccine candidate in China this year, a senior executive said on Friday, as it prepares a global rollout of the vaccine.The vaccine candidate is already in the final stage of clinical trials in other countries, and AstraZeneca and its partner on the project, the University of Oxford, expect data from the late-stage trials this year.If successful, they will file for emergency approvals in as many countries as possible at the same time, its CEO, Pascal Soriot, said this week.In China, the company has a deal with Shenzhen Kangtai Biological Products to manufacture the vaccine in the country.Under the agreement, Shenzhen Kangtai, one of China’s top vaccine makers, will ensure it has annual production capacity of at least 100 million doses of the experimental shot AZD1222 by the end of this year.The vaccine may be approved for use in China by mid-2021 after gathering safety data from Phase 1 and Phase 2 trials in China and efficacy data from Phase 3 trials overseas, Leon Wang, head of AstraZeneca’s China operation told Reuters.Wang said its trials in China would use vaccines manufactured by local partner Shenzhen Kangtai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/astrazeneca-s-covid-19-vaccine-to-begin-clinical-trials-in-china-eexecutive/story-QA3uG9xk9LTTk61gcn3ERK.html
06-11-2020||World||US Election 2020: ‘Chill Donald, Chill’, Greta Thunberg settles score with Trump on Twitter||Environment activist Greta Thunberg has clearly not forgotten how US President Donald Trump took a potshot at her by asking her to ‘chill’. As the tables are now turned with Democrat Joe Biden inching closer to the White House and Donald Trump alleging counting fraud, Greta found this as the opportune moment to settle the score.Click here for full coverage of US Presidential Election 2020 So ridiculous. Greta must work on her Anger Management problem, then go to a good old fashioned movie with a friend! Chill Greta, Chill! https://t.co/M8ZtS8okzEGreta was named the Time’s 2019 person of the year. “So ridiculous. Greta must work on her Anger Management problem, then go to a good old fashioned movie with a friend! Chill Greta, Chill!” Donald Trump had tweeted on December 12, 2019. So ridiculous. Donald must work on his Anger Management problem, then go to a good old fashioned movie with a friend! Chill Donald, Chill! https://t.co/4RNVBqRYBARetweeting Trump’s post ‘STOP THE COUNT’, the Swedish green activist wrote, “So ridiculous. Donald must work on his Anger Management problem, then go to a good old fashioned movie with a friend! Chill Donald, Chill!” Like Trump, Greta too kept ‘A’ and ‘M’ of ‘Anger Management’ in capital.Greta had endorsed Biden earlier and made it clear that her endorsement was for climate perspective as well. “I never engage in party politics. But the upcoming US elections is above and beyond all that. From a climate perspective it’s very far from enough and many of you of course supported other candidates. But, I mean...you know...damn! Just get organised and get everyone to vote Biden,” Greta had tweeted. I never engage in party politics. But the upcoming US elections is above and beyond all that.From a climate perspective it’s very far from enough and many of you of course supported other candidates. But, I mean…you know…damn!Just get organized and get everyone to vote #Biden https://t.co/gFttFBZK5ODonald Trump has taken several jibes at the young green activist and interestingly all those became part of Greta’s Twitter bio. After Trump advised her to chill, Greta changed her bio to “A teenager working on her anger management problem. Currently chilling and watching a good old fashioned movies with a friend.” She seems like a very happy young girl looking forward to a bright and wonderful future. So nice to see! https://t.co/1tQG6QcVKOGreta Thunberg’s ‘How dare you’ speech at the UN Climate Action Summit which shot her to global fame also drew Trump’s sarcasm. “She seems like a very happy young girl looking forward to a bright and wonderful future. So nice to see!” Trump had tweeted after Greta’s speech.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-elections-2020-chill-donald-chill-greta-thunberg-settles-score-with-trump-on-twitter/story-YExCNQtqJi1K4gJl827PeP.html
06-11-2020||World||US Presidential Election 2020 Latest Updates: Biden increases lead in Nevada, Arizona||US President Donald Trump on Friday alleged that the Democrats sabotaged the election process and blamed ‘Big Media, Big Money and Big Tech’ for coming to their aid. He attacked the electoral process claiming that the ballot counting process was aimed at decreasing his lead in battleground states. He also blamed election workers without evidence and said that they were secretly supporting the Democrat presidential nominee Joe Biden. US Presidential Elections: Click here for full coverage of the US Presidential race“Suppression. There are few states yet to be decided in the presidential race. The voting apparatus is run by Democrats in these states. We were winning at those key locations by a lot actually and then our numbers getting wheedled away miraculously in secret,” he said accusing Democrats of indulging in voter suppression.Here are the top updates for the US Presidential Election 2020: • Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and several other US states saw both Biden and Trump supporters hold protests against each other over the issue of vote counting. The Trump supporters gathered at Harrisburg, Pennsylvania chanted ‘Stop the Steal’ while Biden backers gathered in Philadelphia were heard demanding that ‘Every vote be counted.’• Pennsylvania (20 electoral votes), Georgia (16 electoral votes), North Carolina (15 electoral votes), Arizona (11 electoral vote)and Nevada (6 electoral votes) are expected to announce final vote counts. Donald Trump is leading in North Carolina but his lead has dropped in Georgia, according to the New York Times. US Election 2020: Where Donald Trump’s election lawsuits are playing out• Several news networks like the ABC, CBS and NBC cut away from the US President’s Thursday evening address and only Fox News and CNN telecasted the entire speech. NBC’s Lester Holt interrupted the feed from the White House and said, ““We have to interrupt here, because the president has made a number of false statements, including the notion that there has been fraudulent voting. There has been no evidence of that.”• Pennsylvania Secretary of the Commonwealth Kathy Boockvar said, “The closer the race is, the longer it takes,” backing off on her previous statement that Pennsylvania could declare the winner in the presidential race by Thursday night, according to Bloomberg. • Nevada is yet to count 190,150 ballots and 90% of these ballots are in Clark County, Las Vegas, according to Bloomberg. Nevada has become an important battleground state these elections where Biden is leading Trump by more than 10,000 votes according to the New York Times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-presidential-election-2020-latest-updates-biden-increases-lead-in-nevada-arizona/story-mLflTwM1rCuo3EgdDX8GuI.html
06-11-2020||World||British foreign minister Dominic Raab self-isolating after Covid contact||British Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab is self-isolating after coming into contact with someone who later tested positive for Covid-19, the foreign office said on Thursday.“The Foreign Secretary was today informed that an individual with whom he has been in recent close contact has tested positive for coronavirus,” a foreign office spokesman said.“In line with government regulations and NHS Track and Trace rules, the Foreign Secretary has taken immediate steps to self-isolate for the required period. He will continue to work remotely during this time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/british-foreign-minister-dominic-raab-self-isolating-after-covid-contact/story-cGrEoRKDC9bFr5L7nn6d2K.html
06-11-2020||World||US Election 2020: Trump campaign loses legal fights in Georgia and Michigan, vows Nevada lawsuit||President Donald Trump’s campaign lost court rulings in the closely-contested states of Georgia and Michigan on Thursday, even as it vowed to bring a new lawsuit challenging what it called voting irregularities in Nevada.Click here for full US Election 2020 coverageIn the Georgia case, the campaign alleged 53 late-arriving ballots were mixed with on-time ballots. In Michigan, it had sought to stop votes from being counted and obtain greater access to the tabulation process.State judges tossed out both the suits on Thursday. Judge James Bass, a superior court judge in Georgia, said there was “no evidence” that the ballots in question were invalid.Also Read | ‘Have decisively won but there was polling interference from big media, big tech’, says US President TrumpIn the Michigan case, Judge Cynthia Stephens said: “I have no basis to find that there is a substantial likelihood of success on the merits.”Trump allies alleged that there had been voting irregularities in Nevada’s populous Clark County, which includes Las Vegas. A Trump campaign spokeswoman did not respond to requests for comment on the Michigan and Georgia rulings.Votes are still being counted in all three states, among a handful of battleground states that could decide the presidency. Democratic challenger Joe Biden has a narrow lead in Nevada, Trump a narrow lead in Georgia, and Biden has been projected to win in Michigan.At a news conference in Las Vegas on Thursday, former Nevada Attorney General Adam Laxalt and other Trump campaign surrogates, including former administration official Richard Grenell, gave no evidence to support their allegations of irregularities and did not answer questions from reporters. “We believe that there are dead voters that have been counted. We are also confident that there are thousands of people whose votes have been counted that have moved out of Clark County during the pandemic,” Laxalt said.He said a lawsuit would be filed in federal court to ask the judge to “stop the counting of improper votes.”Joe Gloria, an election official in Clark County, told reporters there was no evidence of improper ballots being processed.Bob Bauer, a senior advisor to Biden’s campaign, called the various Trump lawsuits a “meritless” distraction and said the strategy was designed to undermine the integrity of the electoral process.“This is part of a broader misinformation campaign that involves some political theater,” he said.“They’re intended to give the Trump campaign the opportunity to argue the vote count should stop. It is not going to stop,” he told reporters on Thursday. Election legal experts have said Trump’s legal strategy is unlikely to have a decisive impact on the outcome of the election. Trump has repeatedly said that he expects the US Supreme Court, which has a 6-3 conservative majority including three justices he appointed, to have a key role. But it is unlikely the court would have the final word in any decisive way and any challenge would have to make its way through the usual court process, legal experts say.In Pennsylvania, where Trump is narrowly leading but Biden is making gains, the Trump campaign and other Republicans have already filed various legal challenges. An appeals court in Pennsylvania on Thursday ordered that Trump campaign officials be allowed to more closely observe ballot processing in Philadelphia, which led to a brief delay in the count.Pennsylvania Democrats on Thursday filed papers in the US Supreme Court saying although they would not oppose the Trump campaign’s bid to intervene in a pending appeal in which Republicans seek to block late-arriving mail-in ballots in the state, it was premature for the court to act on the motion. (Reporting by Steve Holland, Doina Chiacu, Tom Hals, Karen Freifeld, Julia Harte, Jan Wolfe, Daphne Psaledakis and Lawrence Hurley; Writing by Lawrence Hurley; Editing by Peter Graff, Noeleen Walder and Sonya Hepinstall)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-election-2020-trump-campaign-loses-legal-fights-in-georgia-and-michigan-vows-nevada-lawsuit/story-EQsbgwV9xkESuCtoWKWL6L.html
06-11-2020||World||UN to commemorate all victims of World War II on December 1||The U.N. General Assembly decided Thursday to hold a meeting on December 1 to commemorate all victims of World War II, which ended 75 years ago.The Russian-drafted resolution was adopted by consensus after the 193-member assembly voted 54-40 with 45 abstention to eliminate a paragraph in the text that Germany, the U.S. and many European and Western nations objected to.It emphasized that victory in the war “is the common legacy” of all U.N. member nations. And it noted the importance of preserving and not desecrating or destroying “monuments erected in remembrance of those who fought in that war on the side of the United Nations.”Germany, which sponsored the amendment with three dozen co-sponsors, said it introduced the measure to eliminate the controversial paragraph because it politicized the resolution and didn’t promote its main aim of commemorating victims of the war.Ina Heusgen, the country’s legal adviser, said Germany was forced to do this because Russia “ignored” European Union efforts to edit the draft resolution and reach consensus.The language in the paragraph “is highly sensitive for many member states as the Second World War brought about painful divisions in Europe,” she said. “We cannot change this memory 75 years later.”World War II is considered the deadliest conflict in history, involving the vast majority of countries and leading to the deaths of an estimated 70 million to 85 million people -- the majority of them civilians including those who perished in the Nazi Holocaust. It began with Germany’s invasion of Poland in 1939 and ended with Japan’s surrender in 1945 after the atomic bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki by the United States.The former Soviet Union was part of a military alliance with the United States, Britain and other Western nation that fought the Axis alliance of Germany, Italy and Japan.Russia accepted a U.S. amendment saying that “2020 marks the 75th anniversary of the end of the Second World War, a war which brought untold sorrow to humankind, particularly in Europe, Asia, Africa, the Pacific and other parts of the world.” It expanded the Russian draft which only singled out Europe and Asia.The resolution asks General Assembly President Volkan Bozkir “to hold a special solemn meeting of the General Assembly on Dec. 1, 2020 in commemoration of all victims of the war.”It also asks all U.N. member states, U.N. bodies, non-governmental organizations and individuals to pay tribute to all victims of the war “in an appropriate manner.”The resolution underlines progress in overcoming the war’s legacy “and towards reconciliation, international and regional cooperation and the promotion of democratic values, human rights and fundamental freedoms,” in particular through the United Nations which was established on the ashes of World War II and regional organizations.The measure calls on U.N. member states “to make every effort to refrain in their international relations from the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of any state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-to-commemorate-all-victims-of-world-war-ii-on-december-1/story-udesJh7I5QH60OKebDB5lK.html
06-11-2020||World||In troubling new high-water mark, US tops 100,000 Covid-19 cases in single day||The US topped 100,000 coronavirus cases, a troubling new high-water mark as the country faces the prospect of a sustained increase in illnesses and deaths over the coming months.As of Thursday at 6:30 p.m. New York time, 106,414 cases had been reported in the country, bringing the total to 9.6 million, according to John Hopkins University Data compiled by Bloomberg. The number of new infections has been surging across the country, including in many of the battleground states in the Midwest that were expected to play a critical role in the still-undecided presidential election.Even as the number of cases has surged, testing is growing more slowly. According to the Covid Tracking Project, in the week through Nov. 4, new cases increased 7.1%, while tests increased 6.2%.The number of deaths from Covid-19 is also on the climb, topping 1,000 for the third day in a row on Thursday. While mortality rates remain lower than in the initial phase of the pandemic in the spring, the overall number of deaths is likely to follow the number of cases higher as infections accelerate. Deaths tend to lag infection trends by several weeks.Epidemiologists have been warning for some time that the U.S. could see a marked increase in infections during the colder months. New cases are also jumping in Europe, where leaders have taken measures to lock down economic activity and try to avert crippling health-care systems. There has been little talk of similar measures in America, however, even as many hospitals are bracing for an expected influx of Covid-19 patients in the weeks ahead.Governors from states including New York, New Jersey and Ohio raised further concerns Thursday of more infections, while Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell said earlier in the day the recent increase in cases is “particularly concerning.”The surge is playing out as scientists race to develop viable vaccines, an effort that has been set back at times as some clinical trials were paused for safety concerns. And while there are an expanding array of treatment options available to doctors, including recently approved antiviral therapy remdesivir, other highly touted therapies are likely to be in more limited supply even once they receive clearance from regulators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-troubling-new-high-water-mark-us-tops-100-000-covid-19-cases-in-single-day/story-mbDMIr23m5csI1xpuLIJXJ.html
06-11-2020||World||‘Have decisively won but there was polling interference from big media, big tech’, says US President Trump||US President Donald Trump on Friday alleged that there was election interference from ‘big media and big tech’ and said that he has won decisively while addressing Americans from the White House. Donald Trump alleged that if the legal votes were counted then he is the winner. He alleged that there was voter fraud and said Democrats ensured that votes that were cast for Donald Trump remain uncounted. Click here for the complete coverage of the US elections“If you count the legal votes I easily win, they used illegal votes to steal the election from us,” said Donald Trump. He also said that the media falsely propagated the idea that there was a ‘Blue Wave’. He said Democrats were not able to create any such wave and claimed he has won the elections fairly. “There was election interference in the truest sense of the word, there were powerful special interests. There were phony polls to keep voters inside and create the illusion of momentum for Mr Biden and diminish Republican’s ability to raise funds,” Trump alleged. He also called the exit polls broadcasted by several news networks ‘suppression polls’.He said that the Republican party represents the American people and stands as a symbol for inclusion and said ‘Big Money, Big Tech and Big Media’ were backing the Democrats during the entire election process. “Suppression. There are few states yet to be decided in the presidential race. The voting apparatus is run by Democrats in these states. We were winning at those key locations by a lot actually and then our numbers getting wheedled away miraculously in secret,” he said accusing Democrats of indulging in voter suppression. He also said that his campaign team has filed several litigation against the electoral process while alleging that Republican poll observers were kept away from counting centres. The counting process across ballot-counting centres has been live streamed the entire time during the US presidential elections. He also said that the mail-in voting system is ‘corrupt’ and claimed that it ‘totally destroyed the voting system.’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/i-have-decisively-won-but-there-was-election-interference-from-big-media-and-big-tech-says-us-president-donald-trump/story-sSRFZxFLDYbd8KU0CJzu2O.html
06-11-2020||India||In bid to bolster economic partnership, India-Italy sign 15 agreements||India and Italy on Friday signed 15 agreements covering trade and investment, shipbuilding and energy, and unveiled a broad-ranging action plan to enhance their partnership by cooperating on connectivity, climate change and counter-terrorism.The signing of the agreements coincided with an hour-long virtual summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Italian counterpart Giuseppe Conte, during which the leaders pledged to work jointly on common challenges such as the Covid-19 pandemic.The two sides are keen to take their economic partnership to the next level in new areas such as green technology, renewable energy and advanced manufacturing, officials said. “The focus was on economic ties and Italy is very keen to diversify its supply chains and its outgoing investments, [and] to have a more substantive economic partnership with India,” said Sandeep Chakravorty, secretary (Europe West) in the external affairs ministry.Both countries agreed to work closely on concluding a migration and mobility partnership agreement and a memorandum of understanding (MoU) on defence cooperation at the earliest, Chakravorty said. The mobility pact is crucial for India’s plans to enhance access for its skilled professionals in European countries.The much-delayed India-European Union (EU) free trade agreement figured in the meeting, officials said. A joint statement issued after the meeting said PM Modi and Conte stressed the need for “India and the EU to actively re-engage towards an early resumption of negotiations for mutually beneficial India-EU trade and investment agreements”.Also read: ‘Outcome of election won’t affect ties’ - MEA on US presidential electionAmong the 15 agreements signed on Friday was an MoU between Italy’s Cassa Depositi e Prestiti SpA and India’s National Investment and Infrastructure Fund to promote co-financing, two MoUs between Fincantieri and Cochin Shipyard Limited covering design, shipbuilding and manufacturing, and repairs and refits of ships, two cooperation agreements between Snam and Adani Entreprises to promote energy transition and to set up a CNG compressors factory in India, and an MoU between Snam and Indian Oil Corporation to cooperate on gas infrastructure development.The 2020-24 action plan for an enhanced bilateral partnership is based on four pillars – political dialogue at the bilateral level and coordination in multilateral forums, economic engagement, partnership in science and technology, and cultural cooperation and people-to-people exchanges. The two sides will create a mechanism chaired by the foreign ministers to follow up the action plan yearly.PM Modi and Conte, the joint statement said, condemned all forms of terrorism and backed a comprehensive approach to prevent and combat terrorism. They agreed to enhance the exchange of expertise and capacity building to counter-terrorism.They also emphasised the need to expand defence engagement through greater two-way collaboration and technology cooperation, and co-development and co-production of military hardware. They also agreed to consolidate defence ties to enhance the effectiveness of UN peacekeeping activities.The joint statement said PM Modi and Conte stressed the importance of the Indo-Pacific as a “fundamental area for connecting Asia and Europe”, and said both sides will “support all connectivity initiatives based on internationally recognised norms and standards, good governance, rule of law, inclusiveness, transparency and level playing field”.The meeting, the latest in a string of virtual engagements by PM Modi after his successful summits with Australia and the EU, was part of New Delhi’s enhanced focus on Europe against the backdrop of a global rebalancing in the post-Covid-19 scenario. Leading EU players, such as Germany and France, have also signalled a greater interest in the Indo-Pacific region. Both countries are keen to put behind the 2012 killing of two Indian crew members of a fishing boat off the coast of Kerala by Italian marines guarding an oil tanker Enrica Lexie, an incident that took bilateral ties to an all-time low. “Barring the brief hiatus caused by Enrica Lexie incident for some time, the two countries have always enjoyed a cordial relationship since they established political ties in 1947,” said a person who declined to be named. India sees Italy, the third-largest EU economy after Brexit with robust manufacturing, technological and design capabilities, as a strong partner for the Make in India and Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India) initiatives. Italy is currently India’s fifth largest trading partner in the EU, and bilateral trade was worth 9.52 billion Euros in 2019. India, however, ranks 16th as country of origin for Italian imports, and experts believe there is potential for considerable growth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-bid-to-bolster-economic-partnership-india-italy-sign-15-agreements/story-8Oj1N8m9Y3MfoYpsOKQKXK.html
06-11-2020||India||Will continue dialogue with China to resolve situation along LAC: India after 8th round of talks||After the eighth round of corps commander-level talks between India and China on Friday, the ministry of external affairs said the two countries will continue to maintain dialogue to arrive at a mutually acceptable solution to the situation along the Line of Control (LAC) in the eastern Ladakh sector.MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said that both India and China continue to maintain close communication at the military and diplomatic levels to achieve complete disengagement along the contested sector. The two sides were guided by the leaders’ consensus to jointly safeguard peace and tranquillity in border areas, Srivastava told reporters. During the previous round of talks on October 12, the Indian side had demanded comprehensive disengagement at all flashpoints and restoration of status quo ante of early April.While the two sides were unable to reach a conclusion even after a nine-hour long eighth round of military talks, Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat earlier in the day said that India will not accept shifting of the Line of Actual Control (LAC), in the midst of border tensions with China in the Ladakh sector.Gen Rawat said the situation in the Ladakh theatre was tense and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army was facing unanticipated consequences of its misadventure in the sector because of the Indian military’s “firm and strong” response. Also, defence minister Rajnath Singh had on Thursday said that India was determined to protect its sovereignty and territorial integrity in the face of unilateralism and aggression, no matter what the sacrifice.The border row is in its sixth month and efforts to disengage and de-escalate have yielded no results so far. Apart from Ladakh, a tense confrontation between Indian and Chinese soldiers also took place in north Sikkim in early May. The standoff has taken India-China ties to a new low, with troops even firing warning shots at friction points in August-September, the first such instance since October 1975.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-continue-dialogue-with-china-to-resolve-situation-along-lac-india-after-8th-round-of-talks/story-0kWVWAW00BNAyDgznUguCI.html
06-11-2020||India||Valley’s youth being pushed to pick up arms again, says Omar Abdullah||National Conference leader Omar Abdullah on Friday claimed that the recent “missteps” of the Centre have pushed the Valley’s youth to pick up arms again.“In 2012, 2013, and 2014, there was barely any youth resorting to arms. The number of men, who joined the militancy over a period of 12-13 years, is now being matched in a matter of months these days,” the former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir said at a public gathering here on Friday.He added the number of youth joining militancy in one year earlier is similar to those joining in a month now. “They said that by removing Articles 370 and 35A, people, who were distraught with the Indian administration, would completely be assimilated into the rest of the country. But I’d like to say with conviction that after this, these people are even more alienated than before,” Abdullah said. He went on to ask about the visible development of the Union territory. “Where are development works? One year, three months is long enough to get started on such projects. We’d always say don’t be under a misconception that removing Articles 370 and 35A will solve all problems. It is the biggest misstep for J&K. We’re not safe on our own land,” he added. Abdullah’s father Farooq Abdullah said if Jammu and Kashmir wanted to go to Pakistan, they would have done so in 1947. “No one could have stopped it. But our nation is Mahatma Gandhi’s India and not the BJP’s,” said the National Conference veteran.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/valley-s-youth-being-pushed-to-pick-up-arms-again-says-omar-abdullah/story-ujfDLcdgL9nphd5QOjaGFM.html
06-11-2020||India||Delhi sees over 7,000 daily Covid-19 cases for first time, tally at 423,831||Delhi on Friday reported 7,178 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the highest in a single day, and 64 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the health department’s bulletin. With this, the national capital’s tally rose to 423,831, including 6,833 deaths, data showed.There have been 6121 recoveries/discharges/migrations and the active cases of the coronavirus disease stand at 39,722. Several indicators show that Delhi is in the grip of its third and worst wave of coronavirus infections yet. In the past week, there were 5,843 cases on average every day, the highest this number has been since the first case was recorded on March 2.Thursday’s bulletin showed that 66 people lost their lives due to the viral infection, which was the highest single-day deaths in over four months, in the national capital. Delhi last recorded 66 deaths on June 27, at a time when treatment protocols for Covid-19 were still being assessed. Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan after a review of the situation in Delhi most of the new cases of Covid-19 are being reported from six districts of North, Central, North East, East, North West and South East, where the positivity rate stands between 12% and 14%. Delhi’s average seven-day positivity rate currently stands at 11.5%, as against the national average of 4.3%.Also read | Third wave of Covid-19 in Delhi will end soon, says CM KejriwalDeaths and hospitalisations have also been rapidly climbing in the Capital. As on Thursday, there were over 38,000 people with active infections in the city. Of them, 7,231 patients were admitted to hospitals, the data shows. This is the highest hospitalisations at a given time the city has seen.Data shows that intensive care unit (ICU) beds are running full in city hospitals, especially those at private hospitals. Over 73.5% of all the ICU beds earmarked for the treatment of Covid-19 in the city were occupied as on Thursday evening, according to the ‘Delhi Corona’ app.Amid the rising cases of the coronavirus disease, Delhi High Court on Thursday criticised the city government saying it has gone “completely haywire” over its handling of the Covid-19 outbreak and that Delhi was on its way to becoming the “corona capital of the country”.Also read | 27 states account for less than 20,000 active cases, shows govt data“Delhi government has gone completely haywire on the pandemic and is soon going to become the corona capital of the country thanks to the number of cases shooting up. Many claims were made by the Delhi government that they are topping charts in testing, but the number of cases has overshot. The government has many answers to give us,” a bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad said on Thursday.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Friday the third wave of the coronavirus infections will end soon just like the previous two as he urged Delhiites to make wearing mask a movement to arrest the spread of Covid-19 amid festive season and rising air pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-sees-over-7-000-daily-covid-19-cases-for-first-time-tally-at-423-831/story-QyvIExO1rz3P5MI8gemFTK.html
06-11-2020||India||India summons Pak CDA to lodge ‘strong protest’ over Kartarpur Gurdwara||India on Friday summoned Pakistan’s chargé d’affaires to lodge a protest against Islamabad’s decision to hand over management of Durbar Sahib Gurdwara in Kartarpur to a body without any Sikh representatives.External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said Aftab Hassan Khan, chargé d’affaires at the Pakistan high commission, was “summoned and our strong protest was conveyed”. “It was also conveyed to him that this unilateral decision by Pakistan is highly condemnable and runs against the spirit of the Kartarpur Sahib Corridor as also the religious sentiments of the Sikh community at large,” he said. Srivastava said the Indian government has received representations from the Sikh community “expressing grave concern at this decision by Pakistan, targeting the rights of the minority Sikh community”. He added, “Pakistan is called upon to reverse its arbitrary decision to deprive the Sikh minority community its right to manage affairs of the holy gurdwara [in] Kartarpur.”Darbar Sahib Gurdwara is built at the site at Kartarpur in Pakistan where Guru Nanak, the founder of Sikhism, spent the last years of his life. According to a notification issued on November 3, Pakistan’s religious affairs ministry handed over management of the gurdwara to a “project management unit” under the Evacuee Trust Property Board (ETPB), a government department that oversees the shrines of the country’s minorities. The gurdwara was earlier under the management of the Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC). There are no Sikhs among the officials and staff appointed by the ETPB for Darbar Sahib Gurdwara. Pakistan’s Foreign Office, on Thursday, had described India’s position on the issue as “wilful propaganda” and said the PSGPC remains responsible for rituals in gurdwaras, including the one at Kartarpur. The project management unit under the ETPB has “simply been created to facilitate the PSGPC in this regard,” it said in a statement. India and Pakistan opened a 4.7-kilometre-long cross-border corridor, connecting Dera Baba Nanak in Gurdaspur district with Durbar Sahib gurdwara in Kartarpur, a year ago to allow Indian pilgrims to visit the shrine without visas. India is yet to decide on reopening its part of the corridor, which was shut in March as part of Covid-19-related travel restrictions, following Pakistan’s recent decision to open its side.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-summons-pak-cda-to-lodge-strong-protest-over-kartarpur-gurdwara/story-wAZHGk3z2DKGXjMUM6OXsI.html
06-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: TMC jibes at Amit Shah after lunch with refugee family and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Poll gimmick, outsiders’: TMC’s jibes at Amit Shah after lunch with refugee family and statue faux pasMamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress party on Friday cornered Union home minister Amit Shah over his visit to a refugee family for lunch and a controversy over the statue of a tribal leader during his two-day visit to the state ahead of the assembly elections next year. Read morePompeo provokes China with a pinprick, revokes terror tag for Xinjiang groupThe United States has revoked the terror tag for the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM), an Islamic extremist organization that has been blamed by Beijing for attacks in its western region of Xinjiang. US secretary of state Mike Pompeo signed off on the order removing ETIM from the list of terrorist groups on October 20. Read moreNo bail yet for Arnab Goswami, hearing in Bombay High Court to continue tomorrowThere was no immediate relief for Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami, arrested in a 2018 abetment of suicide case, on Friday as the hearing on his interim bail plea before the Bombay High Court remained incomplete. A division bench of Justices S S Shinde and M S Karnik said they would continue the hearing on Saturday because of lack of time. Read moreUS Election 2020: Joe Biden takes lead in PennsylvaniaDemocrat Joe Biden has taken the lead in key battleground state Pennsylvania, where a victory for the former vice president would push him past the threshold of electoral votes needed to win the White House, US media said Thursday. Read moreManipur’s Gyanendro becomes 1st president of Hockey India from NortheastManipur’s Gyanendro Ningombam was elected unopposed as the President of Hockey India while former President Mohd Mushtaque Ahmad is back in the Hockey India Executive Board after being Elected Unopposed for the Senior Vice President post. Read moreSara Ali Khan’s lightning-bolt earrings, all-denim look fail to impress, Varun Dhawan rocks Bandhani shirt for Coolie No. 1 promotionsSara Ali Khan’s style is a perfect blend of modern and traditional, and the 25-year-old Love Aaj Kal (sequel) actor can pull off almost any look, except today’s. Sara stepped out for the promotions of Coolie No. 1 alongside co-star Varun Dhawan in Mumbai. Sara went for a blue and white denim dress that was oddly reminiscent of an old-timey tennis uniform. Read moreTaarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah actor Dilip Joshi blasts use of bad language on OTT shows: ‘Do you talk to your parents like that?’Taarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah actor Dilip Joshi has slammed OTT platforms for promoting bad language. Admitting that some of the work done on streaming is ‘mind-blowing’, he said that the use of bad language feels ‘unnatural’ in an Indian setting. Read moreAssassin’s Creed Valhalla, Reebok has some exclusive kicks so you can dress like a vikingUbisoft and Reebok are all set to release their first collaborative capsule collection, celebrating the highly anticipated launch of Assassin’s Creed Valhalla, the next installment in the Assassin’s Creed Franchise. Read moreWhatsApp introduces pay feature for India, desi tweeple roll out memesWhatsApp, after getting a nod from National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI), has rolled out its pay feature for Indian users. The messaging app also took to Twitter to share the news.“Starting today, people across India will be able to send money through WhatsApp Money. This secure payments experience makes transferring money just as easy as sending a message,” they tweeted. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-tmc-jibes-at-amit-shah-after-lunch-with-refugee-family-and-all-the-latest-news/story-wOuE10ErMNudDxZCOfKI6H.html
06-11-2020||India||‘Outcome of election won’t affect ties’: MEA on US presidential election||India on Friday said the relationship with the US would not be affected by the outcome of the US presidential election as it rests on strong foundations and enjoys the backing of both the Republican and Democratic parties.“Like you, we are awaiting the election results. What I can tell you is that India-US relations rest on strong foundations and our relations encompass cooperation in every possible sphere, extending from strategic to defence to investment to trade to people-to-people ties,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a weekly news briefing.The India-US comprehensive global strategic partnership has “very strong bipartisan support in the US and successive presidents and administrations have raised the level of this relationship even higher,” Srivastava said shortly before it emerged that Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden had taken a lead by bagging more votes in the key state of Pennsylvania.The spokesperson was responding to a set of questions on the close personal relationship between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Donald Trump, the Republican candidate in the election, and the slogan of “Aab ki baar Trump sarkar” that was raised at the “Howdy Modi” rally at Houston in the US in September 2019. The questions also referred to whether Biden’s victory would impact the India-US relationship and whether the Indian government would have to put in an extra effort to forge ties with a Democratic administration. The spokesperson didn’t respond to questions on Trump’s claims of irregularities in the presidential election.India and the US held their third 2+2 ministerial dialogue last month when they signed the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement (BECA) to share classified satellite imagery and aeronautical data. Following the meeting, secretary of state Mike Pompeo had said the US will stand “with the people of India as they confront threats to their sovereignty and to their liberty”.The US has also sought to nudge India to take on a greater role within the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue (QUAD) amid growing tensions between Washington and Beijing. During the second ministerial meeting of the QUAD last month, India, Australia, Japan and the US committed themselves to working for a free and open Indo-Pacific region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/outcome-of-election-won-t-affect-ties-mea-on-us-presidential-election/story-4S2OAetwuzTQH6S1AVhpmL.html
06-11-2020||India||Fire breaks out in Triveni Nagar godown in Mumbai’s Malad; no injuries so far||A level two fire was reported inside a godown in Malad’s Pathanwadi area. The fire was reported at 5.52 pm today and 11 fire fighting vehicles are at the spot. No injuries reported yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-breaks-out-in-triveni-nagar-godown-in-mumbai-s-malad-no-injuries-so-far/story-IkhYT34MP8QcytPUGJ2CeO.html
06-11-2020||India||Amit Shah seeks a chance for BJP in Bengal, promises ‘Sonar Bangla’ in 5 years||Union home minister Amit Shah on Friday set the tone for the West Bengal assembly elections slated to be held next year. Urging people to give the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, a chance, he promised to transform the state into ‘Sonar Bangla’ within five years.Shah, who is on a two-day visit to West Bengal, also expressed confidence that the BJP would win at least 200 seats in the upcoming assembly polls in the state. He asserted that the party, under the leadership of party president JP Nadda, will fight the polls on the issues of welfare and security of the people. “The BJP is taking the election of Bengal very seriously under the leadership of JP Nadda. Because with this the security of the country is also associated and the welfare of the most backward poor people is also concerned. We will go public with both issues,” he said.While addressing a press conference in Kolkata, Shah said that the BJP’s aim is to ensure development in Bengal and stop infiltration along the border. “Our aim is clear that Bengal should be developed, the borders of the country are secure, infiltration inside Bengal should be stopped,” he told reporters.He also slammed the Mamata Banerjee-led government in the state over the rising crime rate and added, “The TMC and Didi’s only goal is to make the nephew the chief minister in the next term.” “Now the people of Bengal have to decide whether they want familyism or developmentalism,” he said.The Union home minister also took a swipe at the state government over its handling of the coronavirus pandemic and the cyclone in Bengal earlier this year. “Appeasement has raised questions in the minds of a large section of the people of Bengal,” he said during the briefing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-seeks-a-chance-for-bjp-in-bengal-promises-sonar-bangla-in-5-years/story-YauuRov037TqMiwBMSrbGI.html
06-11-2020||India||‘Poll gimmick, outsiders’: TMC’s jibes at Amit Shah after lunch with refugee family and statue faux pas||Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress party on Friday cornered Union home minister Amit Shah over his visit to a refugee family for lunch and a controversy over the statue of a tribal leader during his two-day visit to the state ahead of the assembly elections next year.State minister Firhad Hakim took a jibe at Shah over his lunch on Friday at a Matua family’s residence in Baguihati in Kolkata’s northern fringes and said it was a desperate attempt to fool people. “In all BJP-ruled states, tribals, Dalits and those from the backward communities are being tortured. There are reports of atrocities everywhere. So, this drama of having lunch at the house of a person from the Matua community is nothing but a poll gimmick before the assembly elections. But he can’t people fool every time, and the Matuas are very well aware of the BJP’s double standards,” Hakim said, according to news agency PTI.The Matuas, originally from East Pakistan which is now Bangladesh, had been migrating to West Bengal since the 1950s, mostly due to religious persecution. The community, with an estimated population of three million in the state, influences at least four Lok Sabha seats and 40 assembly seats in Nadia, North and South 24 Parganas districts. PTI cited sources in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) as saying that the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), which was passed in Parliament last year, is likely to help several refugee communities such as the Matuas to obtain citizenship of the country.Also read | BJP must win 200 seats: Amit Shah sets Bengal targetThe TMC also slammed Shah over his “appeasement remark” and said communal politics has no place in Bengal. As it criticised Shah’s scheduled visit to the Matua family, the ruling party in West Bengal described his refugee community outreach, saying it was a “poll gimmick” to divert attention from atrocities committed on backward communities in states ruled by the BJP.“What does Amit Shah mean by appeasement politics? Was he speaking as a BJP activist or as the Union Home Minister of the country? The government has to treat all communities with equality and respect. I don’t think it is a crime to do something for the development of minorities in the state,” Sougato Roy, a senior TMC leader, said.Roy also asked why Shah had ignored the fact that the TMC government had allowed Durga Puja celebrations even when many BJP-ruled states cancelled it. “Why is he not speaking about the state government’s decision to allow Durga Puja celebrations? Was it minority appeasement? I would want to say that communalism has no place in West Bengal. The people of the state will reject BJP’s divisive politics,” he added. Roy was referring to Shah’s comment earlier in the day when said that the present “appeasement politics” in the state has hurt its age-old tradition of upholding the nation’s spiritual consciousness.Also read | Amit Shah invokes Chaitanya, Vivekananda, urges people of Bengal to restrore prideBefore that, the ruling party in Bengal had taken a jibe at Shah after he garlanded a statue of a general tribal hunter in Bankura district on Thursday. The Union minister was supposed to honour Birsa Munda, the legendary tribal leader who had fought for India’s independence and was killed at 25. According to reports, tribal leaders pointed out to the BJP that the statue was not of Birsa Munda after which party leaders put Munda’s photo at the foot of the statue. “Paid floral tributes to legendary tribal leader Bhagwan Birsa Mundaji in Bankura, West Bengal today. Birsa Mundaji’s life was dedicated to the rights and upliftment of our tribal sisters and brothers. His courage, struggles and sacrifices continue to inspire...” Shah had tweeted on Thursday. Started my two days Bengal visit by paying tributes to Bhagwan Birsa Munda today.Public anger against the Mamata govt can be seen all over the state.People of Bengal only have hope in PM @narendramodi, they know that only he can bring back the prosperity & glory of Bengal. pic.twitter.com/Zfjf5HsC2qThe Trinamool Congress tweeted about the incident. “Bohiragato’ are at it again! Union Home Minister Amit Shah is so ignorant of Bengal’s culture that he insulted Bhagwan Birsa Munda by garlanding a wrong idol and placed his photo at someone else’s foot. Will he ever respect Bengal?” the TMC posted on Twitter. 'Bohiragato' are at it again! Union Home Minister @AmitShah is so ignorant of Bengal's culture that he insulted Bhagwan Birsa Munda by garlanding a wrong idol & placed his photo at someone else's foot. Will he ever respect Bengal?#BengalAsksAmitShahhttps://t.co/045lw50TV2“From Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar to Birsa Munda, what is this blatant disrespect towards Bengal’s legendary icons, Amit Shahji? How many more times will you misuse Bengal’s culture and heritage for your political propaganda?” Trinamool lawmaker Nusrat Jahan also tweeted over the garlanding incident. She was referring to the Birsa Munda issue and the vandalisation of 19th-century reformer Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar’s statue allegedly by BJP workers before Lok Sabha polls last year.Shah, who had played a major role in expanding the BJP’s base during his tenure as its national president in 2018, is in the state drum up support for the Bengal assembly elections in 2021. The BJP has eight seats in the state assembly. It also has the support of eight MLAs who had switched over to the party from the TMC after the 2019 general election.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/poll-gimmick-outsiders-tmc-s-jibes-at-amit-shah-after-lunch-with-refugee-family-and-statue-faux-pas/story-6ZFmDPouVsC3MGHahtJNDN.html
06-11-2020||India||Covid-19 pandemic a watershed moment in history like World War II: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said that the Covid-19 pandemic will remain a watershed moment in history, just like World War II (WWII).The Prime Minister was speaking at the India-Italy Virtual Summit with his Italian counterpart Giuseppe Conte.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19“Covid-19 pandemic will remain a watershed moment in history, just like WWII. We will have to adapt ourselves to the post-Corona world. We will have to be ready for the opportunities and challenges arising out of it,” Modi said.The Prime Minister paid condolences on behalf of the people of India for the losses due to Covid-19 in Italy.“I express my condolences on behalf of all the people in India, for the losses due to Covid-19 in Italy. When other countries of the world were still getting to know of Coronavirus and trying to understand it, you were suffering from it,” PM Modi said.He said, “You swiftly and successfully brought a very difficult situation under control. You also consolidated the entire country.”“I hope that after the Covid-19 situation improves, we will get an opportunity to welcome the Italian Members of Parliament, in India,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-pandemic-a-watershed-moment-in-history-like-world-war-ii-pm-modi/story-AU35Pzqb5KB9g6kBcLfOqJ.html
06-11-2020||India||Assam’s Pobitora Wildlife Sanctuary to reopen for tourists from Nov 10||The Pobitora Wildlife Sanctuary in Assam, known for dense population of the Great Indian Rhinoceros, will be reopened on November 10 for domestic and foreign tourists after around seven months, its Ranger, Mukul Tamuli, said on Friday.The 38.85 sq km wildlife sanctuary on the southern bank of river Brahmaputra in Morigaon district, adjacent to Guwahati, was closed since late March due to Covid-19 pandemic and the monsoon season.Animals, trees, forest camps and various infrastructure in Pobitora were seriously affected due to flood this year, Tamuli said.Due to protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) in late 2019, the flow of foreign tourists was almost nil during January and February this year, he said.The official said that due to Covid-19, the wildlife sanctuary incurred huge losses this year. It generated only Rs 30 lakh, which is one-third of the previous year’s earnings.During May-June, the outbreak of anthrax also claimed the lives of 10 buffaloes, which was also a cause for concern, Tamuli said.However, the malady was overcome and the damaged infrastructure repaired to throw open the sanctuary to visitors, the ranger said.Israeli Ambassador Dr Ron Malka visited Pobitora three days ago and hoped that his country’s people would come to the sanctuary.Pobitora has more than 100 rhinos, 2,000 wild buffaloes, thousands of hogs, barking deer, leopards, different species of snakes and tortoises.Besides, the advent of winter makes it a hub of migratory birds.Its grasslands provide habitat for Assam’s second- largest population of the Indian rhinoceros after the Kaziranga National Park, a World Heritage Site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-s-pobitora-wildlife-sanctuary-to-reopen-for-tourists-from-nov-10/story-eXjoiRKuPqGR3MxRZWwXHO.html
06-11-2020||India||Anganwadi centres, schools, panchayat buildings to be used as Covid-19 vaccination sites||Anganwadi centres, schools, panchayat buildings and other such setups would be used extensively in addition to healthcare facilities as vaccination sites in the anti-coronavirus inoculation drive which would be monitored by the Union health ministry’s digital platform and would involve sending SMSes and generating a QR code after each jab to track the beneficiaries.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19 According to a blueprint deliberated upon by an expert group, state governments would identify buildings which can be used as vaccination booths under the special Covid-19 immunisation programme that would run parallel to the existing Universal Immunisation Programme (UIP). “The vaccination sites will not be limited to just healthcare facilities. Such centres would also be set up in anganwadi centres, schools, panchayat buildings and other such setups as identified by state governments,” a source said. The health ministry’s existing digital platform eVIN which is being used for the UIP is being enhanced for Covid-19 vaccine distribution and delivery, through which SMSes would be sent to recipients informing the time, date and venue to get the shots and digitally connect them and also track them, the source said. Each person in the immunisation list would be linked with their Aadhaar cards to avoid duplication and to track beneficiaries. However, in case a person doesn’t have an aadhaar card, a government photo identity can be used, sources said. The Electronic Vaccine Intelligence Network (eVIN) system provides real-time information on vaccine stocks and storage temperatures across all cold chain points in the country under the UIP. The prime minister, during a review meeting last month, had suggested making use of the experience of the successful conduct of elections and disaster management, for developing the vaccine delivery and distribution system, involving the participation of states/UTs/district-level functionaries, civil society organisations, volunteers, citizens, and experts from all necessary domains. The coronavirus vaccine, once available, would be distributed under a special Covid-19 inoculation programme, using the processes, technology and network of the existing UIP, official sources had said earlier. According to them, the Centre will procure the vaccine directly to make it available to the priority groups through the existing network of states and districts.Also Read | 1,10,000 medical staff from Pune dist are to receive first round of Covid-19 vaccine on priority The vaccine is being planned to be administered to the priority groups free-of-cost. States have been asked not to chart separate pathways of procurement, they said. The Centre, with the help of state and UT governments, has started the process of identifying around 30 crore priority beneficiaries who would be given vaccine dose in the initial phase. The government has demarcated four categories which includes around 1 crore healthcare professionals including doctors, MBBS students, nurses and ASHA workers etc, around two crore frontline workers, including municipal corporation workers, personnel of the police and armed forces, about 26 crore people aged above 50 and a special category of those below 50 with co-morbidities and requiring specialised care. States have been asked to enlist by mid-November the priority population groups to receive the vaccine. The National Expert Committee on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 has already mapped the existing cold chain presently being utilised under the government’s immunisation programme and has also made a projection of the additional that will be required. Presently facilities of cold chain in over 28,000 locations are being used under the UIP. Presently the group is engaged with mapping the private sector facilities for augmenting the capacity. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan had said in October that the Centre estimates to receive and utilise 40-50 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine covering 20-25 crore people by July next year. Stating Covid-19 vaccine introduction will span over an year with multiple groups being included “sequentially starting from health care workers”, the health ministry has sought constitution of committees at state and district level which will review preparatory activities in terms of cold chain preparedness, operational planning, strategies for state specific challenges in terms of geographical terrain and hard to reach areas etc. The ministry has suggested setting up of a state steering committee (SSC) chaired by the chief secretary, a state task force (STF) led by additional Chief Secretary or principal secretary (health), and a district task force (DTF) to be headed by the district magistrate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anganwadi-centres-schools-panchayat-buildings-to-be-used-as-covid-19-vaccination-sites/story-qDIvpXrZ2QAJE1DIhWsRII.html
06-11-2020||India||Isro begins countdown for PSLV-C49 EOS-01 mission: All you need to know||The Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) has announced the commencement of the countdown for the launch of the 51st mission of Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV). The carrier will deliver 10 satellites as its payload with EOS-01 as the primary satellite. An announcement on Isro’s website said that the PSLV rocket will be launched from the Satish Dhawan Space Centre (SDSC) in Sriharikota, tentatively on November 7 at 3:20pm.The primary payload would be the earth observation satellite EOS-01 designed for its uses in agriculture, forestry and disaster management support. The space agency has also planned to launch nine other customer satellites - one R2 satellite from Lithuania, four Kleos (KSM 1A/1B/1C/1D) satellites from Luxembourg and four Lemur satellites (Lemur - 1/2/3/4) from the United States.PSLV C49 carrierThe carrier vehicle that is the PSLV C49 is a four-stage rocket and measures 44.5m in total height, as per statistics released by Isro. The fourth and the uppermost stage of the rocket is where two earth storable liquid engines are placed. It is fuelled by the propellant Hydroxyl-terminated polybutadiene (HTPB). The rocket weighs a total of 320 tonnes at take-off and is measured 2.8m in diameter.Popularly called the ‘workhorse of Isro,’ PSLV series of carriers have been highly successful in their missions to launch satellites into the various orbital levels of the space.Earth observation satellitesIndia presently operates the largest constellation of remote sensing satellites, as per Isro records. Data from these satellites are used for various modern-day applications such as covering agriculture, water resources, environment and disaster management, to name a few. Also, the launch of the EOS-01 on November 7 comes after Isro’s successful launch of PSLV-C48/RISAT-2BR1 rocket into the Lower Earth Orbit (LEO) on December 11, 2019.Covid-19 restrictionsWhile Isro always had a viewing gallery for most of its launches, this year due to Covid-19 restrictions, only a live telecast of the launch has been planned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isro-begins-countdown-for-pslv-c49-eos-01-mission-all-you-need-to-know/story-YuFlmeWTv4GrjB5yuehVbN.html
06-11-2020||India||No bail yet for Arnab Goswami, hearing in Bombay High Court to continue tomorrow||There was no immediate relief for Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami, arrested in a 2018 abetment of suicide case, on Friday as the hearing on his interim bail plea before the Bombay High Court remained incomplete.A division bench of Justices S S Shinde and M S Karnik said they would continue the hearing on Saturday because of lack of time.“We will assemble for this matter specially tomorrow noon,” the court said.Goswami was arrested from his residence in Mumbai on Wednesday and taken to Alibaug, where a case has been registered against him for alleged abetment of suicide of architect Anvay Naik and his mother over non-payment of dues by Goswami’s firm.The high-profile journalist has been remanded in judicial custody till November 18. Goswami is presently lodged in a school in Alibaug which is designated as a Covid-19 centre for the Alibaug jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-bail-yet-for-arnab-goswami-hearing-in-bombay-high-court-to-continue-tomorrow/story-qVlTkydezim7hUYwFbi9gK.html
06-11-2020||India||‘Learned from your battle against Covid-19,’ PM Modi tells Italian counterpart||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday praised Italy for its fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and said that “all of us took lessons” from the European country as he committed to work to expand India’s bilateral relationship further.PM Modi made the comments during his virtual talk with his Italian counterpart Giuseppe Conte. “When other countries were just starting to understand the virus, Italy was fighting a battle against it. Your successful battle inspired us and we all took lessons from Italy,” he told Conte.Speaking further on Covid-19, PM Modi said like World War II, the coronavirus pandemic will be a watershed moment. “We have to adapt ourselves for the post-Covid-19 world and the challenges that will arise,” he said. “I am confident, after talks, our relationship will get stronger, we will develop more understanding. We will also identify new areas of cooperation,” he also said.PM Modi also remembered Conte’s 2018 India visit for tax summit and said, the mutual exchange between India and Italy gained immense momentum after the talks. “I am happy to know that, the Italian Parliament established Italy-India friendship group. I hope we will get an opportunity to welcome Italian parliamentarians in India after the Covid-19 pandemic,” he added.During the PM Modi and Conte meet, India and Italy are set to sign about a dozen agreements covering areas such as trade, investment, infrastructure, environment, fisheries, media and filmmaking. The two sides are also expected to explore the possibility of increasing Italian investments in India and enhancing defence cooperation and manufacturing under the Make in India initiative.The meeting, the latest in a string of virtual engagements by Modi after his successful summits with Australia and the European Union (EU), is part of New Delhi’s enhanced focus on Europe against the backdrop of a global rebalancing in the post-Covid-19 scenario. Leading EU players, such as Germany and France, have also signalled a greater interest in the Indo-Pacific region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/learned-from-your-battle-against-covid-19-pm-modi-tells-italian-counterpart/story-0cSIbhdaMgkyJuE3y640SO.html
06-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: India, Philippines to boost defence cooperation, information-sharing to fight terror and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan TimesIndia, Philippines to boost defence cooperation, information-sharing to fight terrorIndia and the Philippines agreed on Friday to enhance bilateral defence engagement and maritime cooperation, especially in training and procurement of military equipment, and to step up information-sharing to counter terrorism. Read more Delhi: Bursting or selling firecrackers could attract fine of up to Rs1 lakhBursting or selling crackers this season can earn you a fine of up to Rs1 lakh under, Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai said on Friday. Read moreNepal and India have long-standing special relationship, says Nepal Prime Minister Oli as he meets army chiefNepal and India have a long-standing and special relationship, Nepal Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli has said to Indian army chief Manoj Mukund Narwane as the duo had a courtesy meeting on Friday. The present issues between the two countries will be resolved through dialogue, Nepal Prime Minister expressed hope. Read moreKarnataka bans firecrackers ahead of Diwali, chief minister cites CovidFollowing in the footsteps of states like Odisha, Rajasthan and New Delhi, Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa said that the state would also ban firecrackers in view of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Read moreNissan Magnite to get power-packed HRA0 Turbo engine: All you need to knowThe upcoming Nissan Magnite sub-compact SUV in India is all set to get several highlights through which it would seek to make a strong case for itself against some very capable rivals. Read moreVirender Sehwag recalls when Pakistan batsman asked him to sing Kishore Kumar songEveryone recalls Virender Sehwag as one of the best opening batsmen India have ever produced. The right-handed batsman ruled in all three formats and his explosive style of batting left top bowling line-ups bamboozled. Read moreAbhishek Bachchan says he fasted for Aishwarya Rai on Karwa ChauthThough the Karwa Chauth ritual is observed by married women for their husbands, Abhishek Bachchan also kept a fast for his wife, Aishwarya Rai Bachchan, this year. He made the revelation during a recent promotional interview for his upcoming Netflix drama, Ludo. Read moreRCB Captain Virat Kohli twins with mom-to-be Anushka Sharma on his 32nd birthday celebration in Dubai. Get the lookIPL Team Royal Challengers Bangalore captain, Virat Kohli, celebrated his 32nd birthday yesterday alongside his wife, Bollywood actor Anushka Sharma and his team mates in Dubai. Read moreUS Elections 2020: Biden ahead, Trump down but not out; what next?One of the most consequential elections in the United States ever has revealed a divided country. Joe Biden is ahead, but hasn’t won in the landslide pollsters expected; Donald Trump seems down but not out, relying on legal challenges; and there remains uncertainty in key swing states. What does this election tell us about the US? Watch hereMan caught walking a stuffed dog post curfew by Czech Police. WatchA series of rather odd events took place in Ceske Budejovice, the capital city of South Bohemia in the southern Czech Republic. The video, of said strange happening, was shared on the Facebook page of Czech Television’s Events of South Bohemia show on October 29. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-india-philippines-to-boost-defence-cooperation-information-sharing-to-fight-terror-and-all-the-latest-news/story-gUqbiTlGCxQnNiHiAcTfHO.html
06-11-2020||India||Bengal: Woman, her two kids die as truck flips on its side, falls on their hut||A mother and her two minor children were killed on Thursday evening, when a truck turned on its side and fell on their hut at Jamalpur in Purba Bardhaman district, which is located around 100 kilometres (km) north of Kolkata, West Bengal. Scores of irate villagers clashed with the police personnel, who had reached the accident spot to retrieve the victims’ bodies and send them for post-mortem examination. They blocked the village road, where the accident had occurred, and also damaged a police vehicle. The driver of the truck managed to flee the accident spot. The victims have been identified as Sandhya Barui (28) and her two minor children -- a girl (14) and a boy (12) “The incident occurred at around 8.30pm on Thursday, when a sand-laden truck turned on its side while trying to negotiate a turn on a narrow village road. The vehicle fell on a roadside hut, where the woman and her two children were staying. They got buried under the debris . Later, villagers removed the debris and retrieved the bodies,” said a police officer. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee had directed the police several times in the past not to allow heavy vehicles to operate on village roads. But, heavy vehicles frequently take village roads to avoid congestion on highways by allegedly bribing local district authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-woman-her-two-kids-die-as-truck-flips-on-its-side-falls-on-their-hut/story-wSKJJ4uKthZJyxaEtpZ0NO.html
06-11-2020||India||Delhi govt forms assessment panel to ascertain effect of Pusa bio-decomposer for stubble burning-caused pollution||The Delhi government on Friday set up an impact assessment committee to ascertain the effect of Pusa bio-decomposer in reducing pollution due to stubble burning in the national capital.Environment Minister Gopal Rai said the panel will have 15 members, including MLAs, and officials from Indian Agricultural Research Institute, Pusa, and Agriculture Department.Also Read | Delhi air enters ominous ‘severe’ zone; local factors, stubble play crucial role“The government has decided to set up an impact assessment committee to ascertain the impact of Pusa bio-decomposer in reducing pollution due to stubble burning in Delhi,” Rai said during a press conference. The committee has been asked to submit an assessment report to the government within a week. The report will be presented before the Supreme Court after Diwali, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-govt-forms-assessment-panel-to-ascertain-effect-of-pusa-bio-decomposer-for-stubble-burning-caused-pollution/story-ESTUjyojPeA8HD2lSU1ciO.html
06-11-2020||India||Arunachal Pradesh seeks Centre’s assistance in boosting new investments||The Arunachal Pradesh government has sought the Centre’s assistance as the state looks to boost its industrial sector and generate employment opportunities, officials said on Friday.Chief Minister Pema Khandu, in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday, has solicited the support of the Department of Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) for attracting investments to the state, officials at the chief minister’s office said.“The state government has accorded high priority to the development of industry, which in turn would increase economic activities and create jobs,” the CM wrote.A marathon virtual meeting was subsequently arranged during the day between state and central government officials, in which representatives from Arunachal Pradesh underlined the key strengths of its industrial sector to DPIIT Secretary Guruprasad Mohapatra.Invest India CEO Deepak Bagla was also present at the meeting, the officials said.Planning and Investment Commissioner Prashant Lokhande gave a detailed presentation on the state’s investment opportunities, with focus on availability of land, improved connectivity and abundant natural resources.He pointed out some of the priority sectors such as agro-forest and food processing industry, tourism, power and renewable energy, have good investment potential, and asserted that the state would provide all possible facilities to the prospective investors.Bagla, during the meeting, assured support to the officials, and said his agency would create a special cell for promoting investment in Arunachal Pradesh.Invest India will also launch a dedicated website to highlight opportunities in the northeast, he said.Officials from the ministries of DONER, Railways, Road Transport, Civil Aviation, Tourism, Food Processing industries, Textiles, Electronics and Information Technology among others gave assurances that they would extend support to the state to expedite necessary infrastructure creation.Stressing that the state’s food processing sector, if put to use for creating mini food parks and cold chains, would turn out to be of immense value, Chief Secretary Naresh Kumar urged the central public sector undertakings (CPSUs) to aid Arunachal as anchor investors.With focused attention, the communication infrastructure including rail, road and air connectivity has improved significantly and the state is now at a “take-off stage” to receive investments, the chief secretary said.Mohapatra, on his part, appreciated the efforts made by Arunachal Pradesh in strengthening its infrastructure and said DPIIT and the Centre would lend full support to the state in its endeavour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arunachal-pradesh-seeks-centre-s-assistance-in-boosting-new-investments/story-aDcv7qzX2hIw4PePevEbQL.html
06-11-2020||India||Govt yet to take call on China’s entry into 5G, says Union home secretary||Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla on Friday said the government has not taken any call on allowing Chinese telecom companies to enter into the 5G trials in India but acknowledged that the penetration of the neighbouring country into the existing network is too extensive.Bhalla, however, also made it clear that the government is making special safeguards to ensure safety and security of the country’s communication network.“On 5G, the government in any case has not taken any call. Discussions are still on...when it will be allowed and who are the people to be allowed. Point is very valid. The penetration of existing telecom hardware and software is too extensive,” he said at the Diamond Jubilee webinar organised by National Defence College.He was replying to a question on participation of Chinese telecom players in India’s 5G trials.The home secretary said unless India gets a substitute, the existing facilities cannot be closed down abruptly.“Unless we have a substitute available, we just can’t switch off and say that this will not be allowed. But the government can definitely make special safeguards and ensure the safety and security of the system of communication of the country. That we are having and we are developing and we will definitely be able to deal with that,” he said.The US has banned Huawei, the world’s leader in telecom equipment and the number two smartphone producer, over concerns of security and Washington has been putting pressure on other countries to restrict the operations of the Chinese telecom firm.India, however, is yet to take a call on whether it intends to place curbs on Huawei or allow the Chinese telecom equipment maker to participate in the upcoming 5G trials.Telecom Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had earlier said India has its security issues over allowing Huawei to participate in the upcoming 5G trials.“We will take a firm view on it. There are also security issues...it is not only a matter of technology, as regard their participation in 5G is concerned...Participation of 5G is not conditional upon the trial being started. Whether a particular company is allowed to participate or not, is a complex question, including security issues,” he had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-yet-to-take-call-on-china-s-entry-into-5g-says-union-home-secretary/story-iV3DG11jvEXcuW1OhFEtDN.html
06-11-2020||India||India, Philippines to boost defence cooperation, information-sharing to fight terror||India and the Philippines agreed on Friday to enhance bilateral defence engagement and maritime cooperation, especially in training and procurement of military equipment, and to step up information-sharing to counter terrorism. The decisions were made during a virtual meeting of the joint commission on bilateral cooperation that was co-chaired by external affairs minister S Jaishankar and Teodoro Locsin Jr, secretary of department of foreign affairs of the Philippines. There is considerable defence cooperation between the two countries and the Philippines is considered to be among the front-runners for acquiring the BrahMos cruise missile jointly developed by India and Russia. Efforts to conclude a deal for the missile system this year were hit by the economic impact of the Covid-19 crisis, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. Also read | Israel wants to enhance northeast India’s manufacturing capabilities: EnvoyThe two sides “agreed to further strengthen defence engagement and maritime cooperation...especially in military training and education, capacity building, regular goodwill visits, and procurement of defence equipment”, the external affairs ministry said in a statement. They also agreed to “enhance cooperation in the area of counter-terrorism with information exchange between concerned agencies and support in terms of specialised training needs”, the statement added. Jaishankar tweeted that his meeting with Locsin “focused on taking forward cooperation in trade and investment, defence, education, ICT and space”. The Indian side underlined “our convergence on Indo-Pacific Oceans Initiative and ASEAN Outlook on Indo-Pacific,” he added. During the meeting, the two sides reviewed recent developments in bilateral relations and discussed the future trajectory of their engagement. Jaishankar and Locsin agreed to strengthen cooperation on shared challenges, particularly in the health sector to address the Covid-19 pandemic. They also agreed to expand trade and investment links, and to work on strengthening cooperation in agriculture, healthcare and pharmaceuticals, tourism, energy, ICT, and science and technology. To expand trade, tourism and student exchanges, both sides agreed to work on a simplified visa regime. Jaishankar appreciated educational opportunities provided by the Philippines to Indian students, and reaffirmed India’s assistance for development and capacity building in the Philippines. He invited Filipino students, scholars and academics to avail of the ITEC and e-ITEC initiatives, and use the PhD fellowships offered to Asean students at IITs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-philippines-to-boost-defence-cooperation-information-sharing-to-fight-terror/story-MGb2WHV3N5Z9qPsF7I3GZL.html
06-11-2020||India||Maharashtra may reopen schools from November 23: State education minister||Maharashtra’s school education minister Varsha Gaikwad said on Friday a proposal to reopen schools, which have been shut since March amid the coronavirus pandemic, for the students of Class 9 to Class 12 have been sent to the state government, according to news agency ANI. “We have proposed before the state government to restart classes in schools for Class 9, 10, 11 and 12 from November 23. Also, we have proposed that exams of Class 10 and Class 12 should be conducted in May, instead of February or March,” Varsha Gaikwad was quoted as saying by ANI.The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) usually conducts the examinations for Class 10 and Class 12 in February and March. Which has not been possible this year owing to schools being shut down due to the coronavirus pandemic.Also Read | ‘Class 10 and 12 board exams not possible in Maharashtra before May’Gaikwad said that holding exams in May becomes crucial because students living in rural areas won’t be able to reach their examination centres due to the heavy monsoon that ensues every year in the months of June, July and August in the state. She also mentioned that since students have not been able to attend physical classes this year, her priority is to get them back to their classrooms before they sit for their board exams. Keeping this in mind a decision has been taken to reopen schools from November 23, for Class 9 through 12, to help students prepare for their board exams, she said.Maharashtra’s proposal to postpone the board exams comes on the heels of a similar decision by Gujarat to re-schedule these exams in the state to May. Elsewhere in the country, states have slowly started opening up schools for high school students before their board exams begin.Andhra Pradesh too began holding physical classes from November 2 for Class 9 and Class 10 students in both government and private schools all over the state, after a long gap of seven months. Also Read | 829 teachers, 575 students test Covid +ve after schools reopen in AndhraOdisha too was scheduled to reopen its schools for classes 9 to 12 after November 15, but on Friday the school and mass education minister Samir Ranjan Dash announced that the government will be switching back to online classes due to the possibility of a second wave of coronavirus infections. Also Read | Odisha puts on hold its decision to reopen schools in NovemberHe added that the rapid spread of infections in Andhra Pradesh schools after students went back to classes on Monday also contributed to the decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-may-reopen-schools-from-november-23-state-education-minister/story-y3EfYfrPq2X5fuZwD8e5nL.html
06-11-2020||India||India to help countries enhance capacity for delivery of Covid-19 vaccines: Foreign secretary||India will use its vaccine production capacity to help the world in fighting the Covid-19 crisis and New Delhi stands ready to help countries enhance their cold chain and storage capacities for delivery of vaccines, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said on Friday. Shringla made the remarks while briefing the diplomatic corps and representatives of international organisations on India’s Covid-19 response and vaccine development programme, including international cooperation in this field. “Several countries have been approaching us for receiving vaccine supply. I reiterate our prime minister’s commitment that India’s vaccine production and delivery capacity will be used to help all humanity in fighting this crisis,” he said. “India will also help interested countries in enhancing their cold chain and storage capacities for the delivery of vaccines.” Also read | Prepare for next pandemic now, WHO urges world leadersAs a first step, Shringla said, the government will take a delegation of ambassadors on a tour of vaccine and diagnostic facilities in Pune to give them a “flavour of India’s robust and resilient progress in vaccine development and in the trial process”. India is “on track” in the development and trial of vaccines, he said. “We are exploring the possibility of conducting phase-III trials in a few of our partner countries. We are also looking forward to research collaboration in the field of vaccine development,” he said. “Based on willingness, we may also go for joint production of vaccines in some countries. We have already conducted online training sessions for nearly 90 participants from eight neighbouring countries to develop capacity in clinical trials and clinical practices. Based on demand, we can conduct more such training courses,” he added. Besides Shringla, the panel that briefed the diplomatic corps included VK Paul, member (Health) of the Niti Aayog and chairman of the national expert group on vaccine administration of Covid-19, principal scientific advisor K Vijay Raghavan, health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, department of biotechnology secretary Renu Swarup, department of science and technology secretary Ashutosh Sharma, CSIR director general Shekhar Mande and Abhishek Singh, CEO of the e-governance division of the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology. Shringla noted that Covid-19 continued to be a challenge worldwide, with increasing cases every day. “I have returned yesterday from Europe where a second wave of the pandemic is in evidence. In India, the daily case load has reduced to below 50,000 from around a 100,000 few weeks ago,” he said. During the past few months, India added enormous production capacity for personal protective equipment, test kits and medicines that is being shared with others, he said. Due to an increase in testing numbers, contact tracing, an effective isolation protocol, increased availability of medical equipment and test kits and a sustained public awareness campaign, India’s recovery rate as of November 3 was 91.96 % and the case fatality rate was 1.49 %.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-help-countries-enhance-capacity-for-delivery-of-covid-19-vaccines-foreign-secretary/story-ylLNVg90Xj3jHBHrfmNoHP.html
06-11-2020||India||Kerala’s apex temple body to appoint ST priest for the first time||For the first time in its history, a scheduled tribe person will soon become a priest in a shrine, managed by the apex temple body Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB), in Kerala.In a path-breaking move, the TDB, which manages over 1,200 shrines across the southern state, has decided to appoint 19 lower caste people, including 18 belonging to the scheduled caste and one from the scheduled tribe, as priests in its shrines on a part-time basis.The TDB is an autonomous temple body which manages many famous shrines including the Sabarimala Lord Ayyappa Temple.“This is for the first time that the temple body is appointing a scheduled tribe person as a priest in shrines under TDB,” state Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran said in a Facebook post.People from lower caste are appointed in the part-time shanti (priest) posts through special recruitment, he said.So far, 310 people have been selected for the post of part-time priests in the Travancore Devaswom Board from the rank list, published in 2017, he said.As there were not enough eligible candidates from the Scheduled caste and Scheduled Tribe communities for the examination at that time, a separate rank list was prepared as per a special notification for them, which was published on November 5, he said.Though there were four vacancies notified for the ST community, only one application was received, the minister said.After the Left government came to power, the recruitment board was restructured and a total of 815 people had been selected for various posts in Travancore, Cochin and Malabar Devaswom Boards, the minister added.A total of 133 non-Brahmin priests have been appointed in various temples in the southern state in the last four and half year tenure of the government, official sources added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-s-apex-temple-body-to-appoint-st-priest-for-the-first-time/story-Q2AdgCa2OrzJO8FbZc7gjP.html
06-11-2020||India||Bihar assembly election 2020: BJP stronghold Purnia to witness direct face-off with Congress||Purnia assembly constituency, in Bihar’s Purnia district, is among 78 assembly constituencies which will go to polls in the third and final phase of the ongoing Bihar assembly elections, on November 7. This assembly seat comes under a parliamentary constituency with which it also shares its name. A Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) stronghold since 2000, Purnia’s incumbent MLA is BJP’s Vijay Kumar Khemka while the Lok Sabha MP from the parliamentary constituency is Santosh Kumar Kushwaha of Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal(United), an ally of the BJP.Click here for full Bihar assembly election 2020 coverageIn the 2015 assembly polls, Khemka emerged victorious over Congress’ Indu Sinha by 32,815 votes. A total of 186,911 voters cast their votes from this constituency out of 283,483 eligible to vote. Of these, Khemka won 92,020 or 49.26% votes, while Sinha secured 59,205 or 31.70% votes.For the ongoing elections, Khemka and Sinha are once again in contention as they have been fielded by their respective parties yet again. This time, a total of 312,508 people from this constituency are eligible to vote. The break-up of eligible voters is as follows: 163,158 males, 149,341 females and nine from the third gender.Also Read | Bihar assembly election 2020: Will Afaque Alam of Congress win Kasba for third straight term?The three-phase Bihar assembly polls commenced on October 28, while second phase polling took place on November 3. Bihar has a total of 243 assembly constituencies; 71 went to polls in the first phase and 94 in the second.Counting of votes and result declaration is scheduled to take place on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-assembly-election-2020-bjp-stronghold-purnia-to-witness-direct-face-off-with-congress/story-4CCkWgK83972ovcrOgnEJK.html
06-11-2020||India||‘Shocking’: Arnab Goswami gets Supreme Court shield from arrest in Maharashtra assembly’s privilege case||The Supreme Court on Friday issued a notice of contempt to the secretary of the Maharashtra assembly for writing a letter to Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami on October 13 for breaching the confidentiality of the proceedings of the House by approaching the top court against the breach of privilege notice.The top court asked the secretary of the Maharashtra assembly to remain present during the hearing on this letter to take place after two weeks. Till then, the court ordered no arrest of Goswami in the privilege matter. The bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde appointed Arvind Datar, a senior advocate, as amicus to assist in the matter.The Supreme Court noted that the letter seriously interferes with the administration of justice as it intimidates Goswami for approaching Court. The bench also comprising justice AS Bopanna and justice V Ramasubramanian termed the letter by the assembly secretary as unprecedented and shocking.“The clear intention of the author of the letter seems to be to intimidate the petitioner because he approached the Court and to threaten him with a penalty for doing so,” it said. “The assembly should be well advised to understand that the right to approach this Court under Art 32 of Constitution is itself a fundamental right,” the court added.The top court has issued a notice to Attorney General KK Venugopal to assist in this matter. The letter of October 13 was produced before the court by Goswami’s lawyer Harish Salve who submitted an application with an affidavit by 47-year-old journalist’s wife as he is in jail.Goswami was arrested on Wednesday from his house in Mumbai and was then taken to Alibag in connection with a 2018 case of abetment to suicide. Designer Anvay Naik and his mother Kumud Naik died of suicide and named Goswami as one of the three people who didn’t pay dues amounting to Rs 5.4 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shocking-arnab-goswami-gets-supreme-court-shield-from-arrest-in-maharashtra-assembly-s-privilege-case/story-KDkRx7Qk3O89qgedA08bNK.html
06-11-2020||India||Nepal and India have long-standing special relationship, says Nepal Prime Minister Oli as he meets army chief||Nepal and India have a long-standing and special relationship, Nepal Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli has said to Indian army chief Manoj Mukund Narwane as the duo had a courtesy meeting on Friday. The present issues between the two countries will be resolved through dialogue, Nepal Prime Minister expressed hope.“The prime minister said that there was a tradition of conferring the status of honorary Maharathi on the army chiefs of the two countries. During the meeting, the PM expressed confidence that the issues between the two countries would be resolved through dialogue,” Rajan Bhattarai, foreign policy advisor to KP Sharma Oli tweeted.Gen Naravane who is on a three-day visit to Kathmandu was conferred the honorary rank of General of the Nepali Army by Nepal’s President Bidya Devi Bhandari on Thursday. He was honoured at a ceremony at the President’s official residence Shital Niwas in Kathmandu. General Naravane was also presented with a sword and scroll during the function.Also Read: Gen Naravane to call on PM Oli today, as Nepal seeks to reinvigorate ties with IndiaOn Friday, the meeting between Naravane and Oli, who is also the defence minister of Nepal, took place at his official residence in Baluwatar, the Nepal Army sources said. सम्माननीय प्रधानमन्त्री केपी शर्मा ओलीसँग भारतीय स्थल सेनाध्यक्ष मनोज मुकुन्द नरवणेले शिष्टाचार भेटवार्ता गर्नु भयो । भेटका क्रममा प्रधानमन्त्रीज्यूले नेपाल र भारतका बीचमा सदिऔं पुरानो विशिष्ठ सम्बन्ध रहेको रThe visit is aimed at resetting the bilateral ties that came under severe strain following a bitter border row early this year. In May, Nepal came up with a new political map claiming several areas in Uttarakhand to be part of its territory. Nepal had protested after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated an 80-km-long strategically crucial road connecting the Lipulekh pass with Dharchula in Uttarakhand on May 8.After Nepal released the map, India reacted sharply, calling it a “unilateral act” and cautioning Kathmandu that such “artificial enlargement” of territorial claims will not be acceptable to it.(With Agency Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nepal-and-india-have-long-standing-special-relationship-says-nepal-prime-minister-oli-as-he-meets-army-chief/story-QsBjFVii6c09h5r8XAGStL.html
06-11-2020||India||Virtual summit: India, Italy to ink trade, investment agreements||India and Italy are set to sign about a dozen agreements in areas ranging from trade and investment to infrastructure when Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Italian counterpart Giuseppe Conte hold a virtual summit on Friday. The meeting, the latest in a string of virtual engagements by Modi after his successful summits with Australia and the European Union (EU), is part of New Delhi’s enhanced focus on Europe against the backdrop of a global rebalancing in the post-Covid-19 scenario. Leading EU players, such as Germany and France, have also signalled a greater interest in the Indo-Pacific region. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that around a dozen agreements and MoUs covering areas such as trade, investment, infrastructure, environment, fisheries, media and filmmaking, are expected to be signed at the summit. Also read | Working with India to find solutions to Covid pandemic: Finland envoyThe two sides will explore the possibility of increasing Italian investments in India and enhancing defence cooperation and manufacturing under the Make in India initiative, the people said. Both countries are keen to firmly put behind the 2012 killing of two Indian crew members of a fishing boat off the coast of Kerala by Italian marines guarding an oil tanker Enrica Lexie, an incident that took bilateral ties to an all-time low. “Barring the brief hiatus caused by Enrica Lexie incident for some time, the two countries have always enjoyed a cordial relationship since they established political ties in 1947,” said one of the people cited above. Referring to a UN arbitral tribunal’s ruling this year that the Italian marines are entitled to immunity in relation to their acts, the person said, “Following the arbitral tribunal’s verdict, Italy wants to build robust economic relations on the foundation of the political relationship.” India sees Italy, the third largest EU economy after Brexit with robust manufacturing, technological and design capabilities, as a strong partner for the Make in India and Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India) initiatives. From January, India will also join the G20 troika along with Italy and Saudi Arabia. India and Italy will be part of the troika for 2021 and 2022, when New Delhi will take over as the G20 chair. Italy is currently India’s fifth largest trading partner in the EU, and bilateral trade was worth 9.52 billion Euros in 2019. India, however, ranks 16th as country of origin for Italian imports, and experts believe there is potential for considerable growth. About 600 large Italian companies are active in India, while some 4,000 Indian students and 250,000 workers, mainly in the agricultural sector, are in Italy. Italy has traditionally been supportive towards India at multilateral forums, and the two countries are currently working towards a roadmap for a more substantive engagement, including a migration mobility partnership agreement, the people said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/virtual-summit-india-italy-to-ink-trade-investment-agreements/story-cke6cqw1XW3Qt5pBajHJIK.html
06-11-2020||India||‘Lord Murugan gave permission’: BJP launches vetrival yatra, defies AIADMK||The Bharatiya Janata Party launched its Vetrivel Yatra in Tamil Nadu on Friday morning, sticking to their plan despite the state denying them permission due to the Covid-19 pandemic. BJP’s national general secretary CT Ravi and former national secretary H Raja, along with the national party’s state unit president L Murugan, are on their way from Chennai to Tiruttani temple in Tiruvallur district. “Lord Murugan has given us permission, we are going to yatra,” CT Ravi said before leaving Chennai. The BJP is planning to cover the abodes of Tamil deity Lord Muruga in a month-long yatra starting today and going across the state with the yatra concluding in Thiruchendur on December 6. A BJP functionary said that they have not been given permission by the Tiruvallur police and are likely to court arrest there.Lord Murugan is associated with holding his vel meaning spear. Clad fully in saffron and holding the spear, the party state president Murugan said that they will expose those who are against Hindu deities. This controversy came to the fore after BJP went up against a YouTube channel Karuppar Kootam which ridiculed Kandha Sashti Kavasam a devotional hymn dedicated to Lord Muruga. Police arrested members who made the video. The BJP accused the DMK of backing the members behind the group but the DMK has denied having any role in it. The BJP, which is trying to make inroads into the state, has been preparing massively for this rally. However on Thursday, the AIADMK government, BJP’s ally, informed the Madras high court that the yatra will not be allowed. The court disposed of two public interest litigations filed on the yatra with liberty to the BJP to challenge the government’s rejection. A few hours later, Murguan told HT, in Tamil, “Vel thulli gudhikum,” that roughly translates as the spear will enthusiastically leap. Earlier, the AIADMK government had denied permission to the BJP to hold an idol immersion rally during Vinayaga Chathurthi festival. “It is the responsibility of our government to safeguard the public from coronavirus because of which we feel it is unnecessary during this time,” said AIADMK spokesperson and minister for fisheries D Jayakumar. “Keeping public wellbeing in mind, it is better that the BJP gives up vetrivel rally and it is also good for their party. Law and order will take action against BJP or any common man if they don’t comply with legalities,” said Jayakumar. The AIADMK has not been happy with its partner using their Dravidian leader M G Ramachandran’s photos and videos in their promotional content.Meanwhile, opposition parties including the VCK, CPI (M) and Congress and those who filed petitions in the Madras high court raised red flags that the yatra could lead to communal tensions in the state as the BJP’s yatras in the Hindi-speaking belt have not been peaceful.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lord-murugan-gave-permission-bjp-launches-vetrival-yatra-defies-aiadmk/story-4gxYgIw3csU2WXH88ofBqI.html
06-11-2020||India||Ensure there’s no smog in Delhi after Diwali break: SC tells Centre||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Centre to ensure that the smog in the national capital is removed at the earliest as it adjourned two petitions seeking urgent measures on air pollution in Delhi for November 16.A three-judge bench headed by CJI SA Bobde said, “We are adjourning the matter after reopening (following week long Diwali break). Only thing is, till then you (Centre) ensure there is no smog in the city.” The observation came while the bench was hearing PILs filed by Aditya Dubey and an earlier pending matter on Delhi pollution in MC Mehta case. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta informed the court that the Commission on Air Quality Management had been constituted, members appointed and it will begin functioning from today on a war footing. Senior advocate Vikas Singh informed the court that Delhi is facing a “public health emergency” and the situation will only worsen in the coming days when the court is closed. He sought urgent action but the bench replied, “We are a court of law. We are not abdicating our responsibility. This is a problem to be dealt with by the executive. They have the money, power, expertise and resources to deal with the problem.”Singh pointed out that the new commission constituted by Centre did not have representation of health ministry which is crucial to tackle health problems associated with air pollution. The bench noted that courts had limitations but it was for the Centre to take action. “There are many committees and commissions working. We have limitations on functionalities.”Singh said that by the time court reopens, the health emergency may get over. The bench remarked, “We hope the Solicitor General understands it. We don’t want to advise you as they (commission) are experts.”The commission was constituted by an Ordinance issued on October 28 after the court monitoring the air pollution matters had sought urgent action. Earlier in October, the bench had constituted a one-man committee headed by former SC judge Madan B Lokur to conduct physical surveillance on occurrence of stubble burning in farmlands of Punjab, Haryana and UP. The court allowed the Lokur committee to inspect the ground situation and directed all Chief Secretaries of Delhi, Punjab, Haryana and UP to cooperate with him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-seeks-urgent-steps-from-centre-to-check-delhi-s-smog-problem/story-Wnp8v2Sxv9bJkGWNerGsRN.html
06-11-2020||India||Israel wants to enhance northeast India’s manufacturing capabilities: Envoy||Israel’s Ambassador to India Ron Malka has said his country looks to strengthen ties with the northeastern states and wants to share technology to enhance the manufacturing capability of the region.He said the West Asian country is also interested in sharing knowledge to develop human resources.“Israel is a strong strategic partner of India and wants to share technology with the northeastern region for using untapped resources for development. We want to enhance manufacturing capabilities,” Malka told PTI in an interview here.The ambassador was in Tripura for a two-day visit from Wednesday and had met Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb.“India is our close friend. Both countries pledged to help each other in the fields of developments. Since the north-east is an integral part of India, we want to share high and advanced technologies, especially in the fields of manufacturing, packaging and shipping,” he said.Malka said his country is also interested in air connectivity between Israel and Assam’s Guwahati.“The air connectivity would be developed, only after the north-east region comes to a position to export its goods to Israel,” he said.Malka said Israel is also interested in the exchange of culture between the two countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/israel-wants-to-enhance-northeast-india-s-manufacturing-capabilities-says-envoy/story-OBGBaCfKtT7Ryo5ggt5N4N.html
06-11-2020||India||Amit Shah invokes Chaitanya, Vivekananda, urges people of Bengal to restrore pride||Union home minister Amit Shah on Friday urged the people of West Bengal to fulfil their responsibilities to restore the pride of the state which was the centre of spirit and religious awakening. “West Bengal is the land of Chaitanya Mahaprabhu, Thakur Ramakrishna Paramhans, Vivekananda. Appeasement politics has hurt the state’s tradition. I urge people to fulfil their responsibilities to restore the pride of the state which was the centre of spiritual and religious awakening,” Shah said while on his two-day visit to Bengal.Shah also held a review meeting with the senior officers of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) in Bankura.He had met a tribal family in Chaturthi village, Bankura, and had food with them on Thursday. During his two-day visit, Shah met senior BJP leaders from the state, reviewed the upcoming assembly poll preparations and looked into organisational matters.Earlier this year, Shah had addressed a virtual rally in the state. This is his first visit to West Bengal after the Covid-19-induced lockdown. He had last visited the state on March 1 amid the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protests. (With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/appeasement-politics-has-hurt-west-bengal-says-amit-shah-offers-prayers-at-dakshineswar-temple/story-I8rtoy93phRMbiyCw7hJUM.html
06-11-2020||India||TN preps to avoid 2015-flood like situation as northeast monsoon intensifies||Tamil Nadu is bracing to face heavy northeast monsoon rain, which started on Wednesday and is expected to intensify in the next few days, especially in districts of Chennai, Cuddalore and Thoothukudi due to a cyclonic circulation over southwest Bay of Bengal close to the Tamil Nadu coast, weather department officials said. The enhanced rainfall is expected in coastal and south Tamil Nadu from the second week of November until mid- December. On Wednesday, ministers and bureaucrats reviewed preparedness for the rain to prevent repeat of December 2015 deluge. At the meeting, an official privy to the discussions said that 4,133 places have been identified as flood-prone and 321 as severely affected. He also said 4,714 relief shelters have been made ready across the state at schools, marriage halls and community halls to accommodate affected people.The government has also spent Rs seven crore for flood mitigation of Adyar river, which along with Chembarambakkam lake was responsible for December 2015 floods that battered Chennai and its neighbouring districts. Officials also said that Greater Chennai Corporation started work in August by de-silting storm water drains (2,500 km drains have been constructed so far), connecting culverts and clearing encroachments along water bodies. Tamil Nadu relies on the northeast monsoon for its lakes to fill up for water requirements. The state receives an average rainfall of 444 mm between October and December. Chennai’s average is 850mm during the same period. “Including today’s rainfall Tamil Nadu has received around 110 mm and Chennai has got 350 mm,” said Pradeep John, independent weather expert and blogger. Since the northeast monsoon arrived in the region last month, Chennai received the highest single-day rainfall on October 29 “with 288mm of rainfall,” John said. “The previous record was on November 3 with 296 mm.”Early morning showers left several arterial roads in Chennai and Coimbatore water-logged causing inconvenience to commuters. The water eventually drained since the rest of the day remained dry and sunny. “Early morning there will be rainfall in the coastal areas. During evenings and nights convergence will shift towards the land in interior parts of Tamil Nadu,” John said. Chennai is expected to wake up to rain every morning for the next four days.A 24x7 control room has been created at the Ripon buildings, the seat of Chennai’s civic body, to take in complaints from public and emergency numbers have been released. Vehicles have been stationed to clear fallen trees including a team that will man the night shift. Some 570 motorpumps have been placed in low lying areas to drain water in all 15 zones of Chennai, 176 relief camps are ready with 44 medical teams. Community kitchens and Amma canteens will function to provide food for those affected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-preps-to-avoid-2015-flood-like-situation-as-northeast-monsoon-intensifies/story-UAm6SU4ITDK2q1Y6djlDfJ.html
06-11-2020||India||Lalu Prasad Yadav not getting bail before counting day, high court defers hearing to November 27||As former Bihar chief minister Lalu Prasad Yadav will be completing half of his jail sentence in the Dumka treasury case on November 9, the Rashtriya Janata Dal pinned its hope that the party patriarch will be coming out of the jail on November 10 — the same day the counting of votes for Bihar Assembly election 2020 will take place. Dashing the hopes, the Jharkhand high court has deferred the hearing to November 27. This is the first election in the last 40 years in Bihar that Lalu Prasad Yadav was missing from the election campaign, though attacks on him were abound during the campaigning as The JD(U)-NDA alliance blamed Lalu Prasad’s tenure for Bihar’s ‘Jungle Raj’.Click here for complete coverage of Bihar Assembly Election 2020Since he was elected an MP for the first time in 1977, he has been prominently present in all elections. Hence, the party was hoping that he will be out on the day the results will be announced.The former Bihar chief minister is serving prison term in various cases related to fodder scam. In two cases — Deoghar treasure and Chaibasa treasury — he has been granted bail. While in the Deogarh treasury case, he got bail in 2019, in the Chaibasa case, he was granted bail on October 9, this year.The RJD patriarch has been in jail since January 2018 and has completed half of his sentence in many cases.Though away from the election heat and dust, Lalu is closely following the election updates as stakes are high on Mahagathbandhan being led by his son Tejashwi Yadav. At present, Lalu is under treatment at Jharkhand’s Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lalu-prasad-yadav-not-getting-bail-before-counting-day-high-court-defers-hearing-to-november-27/story-weIuvoNHve7a3lsBh83XeN.html
06-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Cash-strapped Sabarimala to start express ‘prasad’ delivery and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan TimesCash-strapped Sabarimala to start express ‘prasad’ deliveryTravancore Devaswom Board (TDB), which runs Kerala’s Sabarimala Temple, has said devotees can book the shrine’s prasad online beginning Friday for home deliveries by post. Read moreIndia will not accept any shifting of LAC, says CDS General RawatChief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat on Friday said that India will not accept shifting of the Line of Actual Control (LAC), in the midst of border tensions with China in the Ladakh sector.  Read moreUP sanctions 30-day ad hoc bonus for employeesThe Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday sanctioned ad hoc bonus for its nearly 1.5 million employees. Read more‘He can never be MS Dhoni’: Gautam Gambhir feels Rishabh Pant ‘has a lot to improve’MS Dhoni has retired from international cricket and Team India is in search to find their next wicket-keeper batsman to represent the country. Read moreAbhishek Bachchan says dad Amitabh never financed films for him: ‘On the contrary, I have produced Paa for him’Actor Abhishek Bachchan has spoken about the debate on nepotism again and how people believe he has taken help from his father, veteran actor Amitabh Bachchan, to advance in his career. Read moreMeteor 350, Royal Enfield’s most-awaited 2020 offering, launched at Rs 1.75 lakhRoyal Enfield on Friday launched the much-awaited Meteor 350 retro cruiser in the Indian market at a starting price of Rs 1.75 lakh. Read moreUS Elections 2020: Biden ahead, Trump down but not out; what next?One of the most consequential elections in the United States ever has revealed a divided country. Joe Biden is ahead, but hasn’t won in the landslide pollsters expected; Donald Trump seems down but not out, relying on legal challenges; and there remains uncertainty in key swing states. WatchIPL 2020 | ‘Bumrah and Archer would stand out in any era’: Brian LaraBrian Lara talks about aspects of T20 cricket that have caught his fancy. Find out who are the young Indian batsmen to have impressed him, while calling the game from Star Sports dugout and who he picks to lift the IPL trophy this year. Read moreAnand Mahindra lends support to initiative for Gateway of India photographersAnand Mahindra is extremely active on Twitter. Besides sharing interesting, inspiring and hilarious tweets, the business tycoon is known to respond to people who tweet to him with messages or suggestions. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-cash-strapped-sabarimala-to-start-express-prasad-delivery-and-all-the-latest-news/story-86tRgbLGohiSuK8FVbJ9BO.html
06-11-2020||India||Uttarakhand high court directs government to ensure all liquor shops, bars have CCTV cameras||The Uttarakhand high court on Thursday directed the state government to ensure the installation of CCTV cameras with IP addresses at all liquors retail shops, bars, wholesale outlets within a month, and submit a compliance report. The directions came as the court was hearing a contempt petition filed in July about the government’s non-compliance with its August 2019 order regarding installation.The government on Thursday told the court that CCTV cameras with IP addresses have been set up at 110 of 553 retail outlets in the state and that a control room has been set up at the office of the excise commissioner in this regard. It added CCTV cameras of 10 out of 251 bars have been connected with the control room.The court ordered the installation of CCTV cameras after lawyer DK Joshi, who has been working for the prohibition, filed public interest litigation in 2018 seeking directions for a need to discourage liquor consumption.Joshi said the court ordered the CCTV cameras’ installation at liquor shops and bars to ensure alcohol is not sold to people under 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-hc/story-QmiYvweU3gJveYtvhlV9sI.html
06-11-2020||India||Kerala set to receive central funds for literacy drive after 10 years||After a gap of 10 years, Kerala is getting ready to receivethe central funds forliteracyprogrammes as the southern state is now part of the union government’s ambitious literacy drive “Padhna Likhna Abhiyan,” the reading and writing campaign.The core objective of the new scheme, envisaged as a leap forward for achieving the goal of the total literacy in the country by 2030,is to impart functional literacy and numeracy to 57 lakh non-literate and non-numerate adults in both rural and urban areas across India in the age group of 15 years and above.The Kerala State Literacy Mission Authority (KSLMA), the autonomous agency under the state government, said here on Friday that it was for the first time in the last 10 years that the southern state was receiving the central fund for literacy initiatives, which is a significant step after achieving 100 per cent literacy.After 2009, the union government had not granted any fund to Kerala for informal education.“Kerala is also now part of the union government’s new literacy drive “Padhna Likhna Abhiyan”. The Union Ministry of Human Resources has issued minutes in this regard. Of the total Rs 4.74 crore-worth project, the Centre will provide Rs 2.84 crore while the state government Rs 1.90 crore,”P S Sreekala, KSLMA director, said.Women, scheduled caste and tribe people and coastal dwellers would get priority under the programme which lays thrust on districts with low literacy rate.Around 1,15,000 illiterates, belonging to educationally backward districts like Wayand, Idukki, Palakkad and Malappuram, would be made literate in the first phase of the drive, KSLMA sources here said.As per the 2011 census, there were 6,12,624 illiterates in these districts and 4,27,166 of them were women.The Mission would conduct a survey and trace out these persons before implementing the programme, they said.Various continuing education programmes, implemented by the KSLM among marginalised sections of the society, have helped the southern state find a place in the central fund list, sources added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kerala-set-to-receive-central-funds-for-literacy-drive-after-10-years/story-A6eCItygZ3gkfUfJLTX4SM.html
06-11-2020||India||Amit Shah in Bengal: Appeasement politics is hurting state’s tradition||Union Minister for Home Affairs Amit Shah on Friday launched a scathing attack against the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) in West Bengal for its alleged appeasement politics, but stopped short of naming the chief minister Mamata Banerjee-led party. “The soil of Bengal has always belonged to great saints such as Chaitanya Mahaprabhu, Swami Pranavananda, Thakur Ramkrishna Paramahamsa and Swami Vivekananda among others. The tradition of Bengal is being hurt because of appeasement politics. I would like to urge the people of Bengal to perform their duties in a bid to help the state regain its lost glory,” Shah said after offering puja at the Dakshineshwar Temple on the outskirts of Kolkata. Shah had arrived in Bengal on Wednesday night on a two-day visit to take stock of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) organisational preparedness for the upcoming Bengal polls slated to be held in April-May next year.The former BJP chief is likely to meet Padma Bhushan Pandit Ajoy Chakraborty and address a rally of party leaders and workers before flying back to Delhi on Friday evening. Also read | BJP must win 200 seats: Amit Shah sets Bengal targetEarlier in 2015, Narendra Modi had become the first Prime Minister to visit the Dakshineswar temple. The shrine, where Hindu sage Ramkrishna Paramhansha had served as its priest for many years, attracts devotees of Goddess Kali from far and wide. The BJP has been accusing the TMC of appeasing Muslims, who account for over 30% of Bengal’s population, as a part of its vote-bank politics. In March, the BJP’s Bengal unit had tagged CM Banerjee as “anti-Hindu” in a symbolic charge sheet that was released by the party. However, the TMC had rubbished the allegations and argued that Banerjee stood for the county’s plurality as enshrined in the Constitution. “It is unbecoming of a Union minister to make such statements. He should have considered the place (Dakshineshwar Temple) from where he made the statements. He tried to malign the rich culture and tradition of Bengal by dragging the names of its icons. The public will not tolerate these statements,” said Tapas Roy, a state minister and a TMC leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-in-bengal-appeasement-politics-is-hurting-state-s-tradition-says-home-minister/story-mzP4irjkHPEDHvTHQqSd1H.html
06-11-2020||India||Two Bihar ministers lose berth in Nitish government||The term of two ministers in the outgoing Nitish Kumar cabinet ended on Friday amid the hectic Bihar assembly polls. The ministers were members of the Bihar Legislative Council or the Upper House in the bicameral state legislature. Their membership had ended on May 6 and as per the rules, they could continue as ministers for another six months without getting re-elected, but that also concluded on Friday. The tenure of Neeraj Kumar, minister for information and public relations (IPR) and also the spokesperson for the ruling Janata Dal (United), and Ashok Choudhary, minister for building construction and also the working president of the JD-U, ended on Friday. A notification regarding the end of the membership of the two ministers was issued by the cabinet secretariat on Thursday, citing Article 164(4) of the Constitution. Bihar is among the seven states in the country that has a bi-cameral legislature, the 243-member assembly, or the Lower House, and the 75-member Council, or the Upper House, including 63 elected and 12 nominated members. Four seats each of graduate and teacher constituencies, including Patna, had fallen vacant on May 6. However, the elections could not be held on time due to the prevailing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. The elections for the graduate and teacher constituencies were held on October 22, whose results will be announced on November 12, two days after the assembly poll outcome is known. Also read | Why did BJP decide to back Nitish Kumar in Bihar?Minister Kumar had contested the MLC elections as a candidate from the graduate constituency and Choudhary was nominated. The nomination to 12 seats of the Bihar Legislative Council is still in a limbo following a lack of consensus among the three constituents of the JD (U)-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government, including the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), which has since broken ranks over a discord with CM Kumar. The new state government will nominate 12 MLCs. Congress MLC Premchandra Mishra’s tweet on Friday sparked off a political row. Mishra cited that it was unconstitutional for the two ministers to continue in the cabinet and the Governor must immediately remove them. Minister Kumar responded to the tweet and said he had a word with the Cabinet secretariat regarding the expiry of his term and “due processes are followed and department concerned has been notified” . “In Nitish Kumar’s government, due processes are followed, but some people seem to be still living in an era, where norms were conveniently bypassed. I am no longer a member of the cabinet and that is natural, as per the rules. The department concerned has been duly notified about it,” he said. However, Mishra argued that the two ministers should have resigned the day their term had ended in keeping with the constitutional propriety. “The provision of getting elected within six months is only for new ministers,” he added.The third and last phase for the remaining 78 seats in Bihar elections will be held on Saturday (November 7).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-bihar-ministers-lose-berth-in-nitish-government/story-aJpy6idF0VmFIdKxvZhHoJ.html
06-11-2020||India||Priyanka raises issue of irregularities in power billing in UP; demands halving of rates for farmers||Voicing concern over alleged irregularities in electricity billing in Uttar Pradesh, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday urged the Yogi Adityanath government to act against those responsible for it and demanded that the rate of power for farmers be halved immediately.The Congress general secretary in-charge UP also demanded that relief be given to weavers, artisans and small-scale industries in electricity consumption.In a statement, she said that there was a “terror” of rising electricity bills and of meters in the whole of UP.Noting there has been a big rise in electricity rates in the last few years, Priyanka Gandhi said that in the last eight years, the rates for rural household consumers have increased by 500 per cent, urban domestic electricity rates have risen by 84 per cent and for farmers the rates have increased by 126 per cent. She said UP has become a “laboratory” for electricity meters which have been found to run many times faster than they should. Even in houses that are locked, a bill of up to Rs seven-eight thousand is coming, she alleged.In many districts of the state, it was also seen that bills came without electricity metre being installed, she said.The public is already reeling due to price rise, the business of small enterprises has collapsed, farmers’ crops are not being sold, they are not getting help in the event of floods, hailstorms and natural disasters, crop insurance scheme has become a source of income for big companies, and in such a situation, electricity prices are constantly increasing and consumers can no longer bear the brunt of irregularities, Priyanka Gandhi said.She said that in the Covid-19 pandemic, what should have happened was that people should have been given relief by reducing the rates of electricity in a big way. Electricity bills of farmers should have been waived and weavers-artisans, small-scale industries should have been given concession in electricity bills.She demanded that the electricity rates for farmers be halved, the truth about irregularities in metering be brought to the fore, those responsible for it be punished and weavers-artisans as well as small-scale industries be given relief in electricity consumption.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-raises-issue-of-irregularities-in-power-billing-in-up-demands-halving-of-rates-for-farmers/story-cKp9nRl8O2dk4TdFiXD6MK.html
06-11-2020||India||India will not accept any shifting of LAC, says CDS General Rawat||Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat on Friday said that India will not accept shifting of the Line of Actual Control (LAC), in the midst of border tensions with China in the Ladakh sector. His comments come on a day the two armies are holding talks to reduce military friction along the contested LAC. “In the overall security calculus, border confrontation, transgressions and unprovoked tactical military actions spiralling into a larger conflict cannot be discounted,” Rawat said at an event organised to mark the diamond jubilee celebrations of the National Defence College.The CDS said the situation in the Ladakh theatre was tense and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army was facing unanticipated consequences of its misadventure in the sector because of the Indian military’s “firm and strong” response. Rawat warned of a collusive threat from China and Pakistan. He said there was constant friction with the two nuclear-armed neighbours with whom India has fought wars and their acting in collusion posed an “omnipresent danger of regional strategic instability with the potential for escalation.” Also read | China to halt key Australian imports in sweeping retaliationDefence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday said that India was determined to protect its sovereignty and territorial integrity in the face of unilateralism and aggression, no matter what the sacrifice. The minister said peace could only be ensured through the ability to deter war. “Perhaps the most fundamental lesson that the roller coaster of the rise and fall of nations taught us was that peace cannot necessarily be achieved by a desire for peace but by the ability to deter war. Unfortunately, the mere desire to seek peace, if not reciprocated by others, does not necessarily succeed in building a harmonious environment in a world beset by conflicting ideas of security, sovereignty and national interests,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-will-not-accept-any-shifting-of-lac-says-cds-general-rawat/story-e7BGQGAcRZlfsRqBNNh4TK.html
06-11-2020||India||From Rajasthan to Delhi, states which have banned firecrackers this Diwali||Due to twin problems of Covid-19 and air pollution, a number of states have banned bursting of firecrackers this festive season. While some states have announced a total ban, others have only prohibited the use of “imported” firecrackers.Meanwhile, few other states are reportedly mulling a similar ban.Here’s a list of some states where firecrackers have been banned, in one form or another, this Diwali season:(1.) Rajasthan: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot tweeted on Monday his government has taken the decision to ban the sale and bursting of firecrackers to protect the health of Covid-19 patients, as well as to protect the public from the poisonous smoke emanating from the firecrackers. The state government has also announced a penalty of Rs 2,000 on anyone found violating the order.(2.) Odisha: A day after Rajasthan, the Odisha government, too, announced a ban on the sale of bursting firecrackers, from November 10-30. In an order, Odisha chief secretary AK Tripathy said, “Any person found violating this order shall be punished under the provision of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and other relevant laws.(3.) Sikkim: On Wednesday, the Sikkim government also announced a blanket ban on firecrackers to safeguard the health of Covid-19 patients and those who have recovered from the disease. “The number of cases has been on the decline and it was felt the use of firecrackers would increase air pollution that could be hazardous for Covid-19 patients,” a notification signed by chief secretary SK Gupta said. (4.) Delhi: The national capital, which perennially witnesses toxic smog in days after Diwali, is also facing Covid-19 this time. Amid a massive surge in fresh daily infections in recent days, including record highs, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday announced a ban on the use of all firecrackers till November 30. Also Read | Delhi bans firecrackers as air quality is now ‘severe’(5.) West Bengal: Also on Thursday, the Calcutta High Court banned the use of firecrackers in the state on Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath Puja to check the spread of Covid-19 in the state. “The court has banned the sale and use of fireworks and crackers during Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath Puja this year. There would be no immersion processions this year,” said lawyer Sabyasachi Chatterjee, who had filed the PIL in the court seeking orders to this effect.Also Read | Firecrackers banned during Diwali, Kali and Chhath Puja in Bengal: Court(6.) Maharashtra: Maharashtra on Friday issued guidelines for curbing the spread of Covid-19 during Diwali, urging citizens to avoid bursting crackers. However, in Mumbai, the state capital’s civic body, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), on Thursday announced it will ban bursting of firecrackers at public places in the city. The agency also warned of penalising the violators.Meanwhile, states like Haryana and Madhya Pradesh have banned the sale and distribution of “imported” firecrackers. Karnataka, on the other hand, is reported to be considering a ban on the lines of that announced by Rajasthan.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-rajasthan-to-delhi-states-which-have-banned-firecrackers-this-diwali/story-oUbqM5v6daMxC3rFNJ4rJL.html
06-11-2020||India||CBI handicapped in 7 states: Here’s what it means, why it happened||Jharkhand has become the seventh non-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled state to withdraw the general consent that allows the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to conduct probes in states. Here is a look at why it happened and what it means:1. The CBI’s ongoing probes will not be affected but the federal agency cannot investigate new cases in these seven states.2. The agency has been unable to register any cases at its Mumbai branch since the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra government withdrew the general consent on October 21. Usually, three-to-four cases pertaining to corruption or bank frauds were registered at the agency’s Mumbai unit every month. After New Delhi, Mumbai accounts for a majority of the CBI’s cases registered annually.3. Maharashtra government’s decision came as the CBI took over the probe into alleged Television Rating Point (TRP) manipulations based on a case registered in Lucknow when the Mumbai police were investigating the matter. The state government feels the Centre was using the agency to circumvent investigations by the local police especially in the cases related to the death actor of Sushant Singh Rajput and the TRP scam.4. Other non-BJP-ruled states that have withdrawn the consent have accused the Centre of using the agency for political vendetta. They are West Bengal, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Andhra Pradesh, and Kerala.5. The CBI expects high courts and the Supreme Court to step in as evidence is likely to be tempered with in corruption cases in the absence of registration of cases and subsequent raids.6. The withdrawal of the consent is not unprecedented but never have so many states withdrawn the consent to the federal investigating agency. 7. As per the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act that governs the CBI, the agency requires prior consent to exercise its authority in states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-handicapped-in-7-states-here-s-what-it-means-why-it-happened/story-eLBkFy34eNCuylpXs5AzHO.html
06-11-2020||India||Maharashtra minister urges people to avoid bursting crackers this Diwali||The Maharashtra government has banned public cultural functions during the Diwali festival and has also appealed to people to not burst firecrackers to avoid the pollution that causes respiratory ailments amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The state home department issued guidelines in this respect on Thursday evening.Though the state government has not taken any decision to ban firecrackers this Diwali, it has appealed to the people to keep it cracker-free. State health minister Rajesh Tope appealed to the people to keep the celebration pollution free and has also said that the government may take a decision over banning crackers in next few days. The guidelines issued by the home department too have made an appeal on the similar lines.“The people recovered from Covid-19 infection may suffer again due to the air pollution emerging out of bursting of the crackers. To avoid it, people should restrain from bursting them. Instead, the festival of light should be celebrated by lighting diyas in big numbers,” the advisory says.The guidelines have also banned organising culture programs at public platforms. It has said that the programs, typically musical programs early morning on the first day of Diwali may be telecast through cable TV, Facebook or any other online platform. The government has also recommended organising health related events like blood donation camps, awareness programs instead of cultural events.“We have been issuing the guidelines for every big festival including Ganpati, Eid, Navratri during the Covid-19 pandemic and have banned public gathering during these festivals. Though the curve of the infection is on a descending limb, there is always a fear of a second wave of it, more so if the protocols are not followed by the people. The guidelines are part of government efforts to prevent the second wave,” said an official from the home department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-minister-urges-people-to-avoid-bursting-crackers-this-diwali/story-YKdi2SrsxwdX4kDRh1dMMN.html
06-11-2020||India||J&K: Unidentified terrorist killed in gunfight in Pampore||An unidentified terrorist was killed in South Kashmir’s Pampore area in a gunfight which was still in progress at the time of filing of this report. The security forces had launched the operation in Lalpora area of Pampore on Thursday evening after terrorists opened fire on civilians. They halted the operation for the night and resumed it Friday morning.A police spokesperson confirmed the killing of one terrorist. “Terrorists fired indiscriminately in which two unknown persons got injured. Search is going on in the area,” the spokesman said late Thursday night. Also read | BSF detects trans-border tunnel in Jammu’s RS PuraOn Thursday night at Awantipora, terrorists fired upon a shopkeeper identified as Mohammad Ayoub Ahanger near Tral bus stand, grievously injuring him. He was shifted to a nearby hospital where he was declared brought dead. In Pulwama, terrorists fired upon a driver, Mohammad Aslam Wani of Wanpora, Pulwama, leaving him injured.Wani is being treated at hospital.“Cases have been registered under relevant sections of law in PS Tral and PS Pulwama respectively. Investigation is in progress,” said the police spokesperson.DGP Dilbag Singh had said earlier that this year, around 200 terrorists have been killed in J&K, including several top commanders. Around 190 militants were killed in Kashmir alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-unidentified-terrorist-killed-in-gunfight-in-pampore/story-sEwvLlYaKeohzmgblcgTMO.html
06-11-2020||India||Trains will resume in Punjab only after blockades along tracks are removed: Railways||The Centre will resume train services in Punjab only when blockades along railway tracks are cleared, railway board chairman and CEO VK Yadav said on Thursday, adding that the state government has assured that all blockades will be removed by Friday.Till Thursday evening, 14 out of 32 blockades had been removed, Yadav said. A joint team of state government officials and the director general of the Railway Protection Force was reviewing the situation in the state, he said.“We have been assured by the Punjab government that all blockades will be removed by Friday morning. 14 of 32 blockades have been removed on Thursday. We will resume all train services once the tracks come back in our control,” Yadav said at a press conference.“We (railway ministry) only have two conditions for the state government; there should be no compromise on safety, and blockades should be removed. Our maintenance teams are ready, as soon as tracks are under rail control, we will run the trains,” he added.Trains have been suspended in the state since September 24 due to the agitation over farm bills cleared by the Centre during the monsoon session of Parliament.The state is also facing critical shortage of coal stock across power plants leading to massive power cuts due to the prolonged suspension of goods trains by the railways.Amid tussle between the Centre and the state government over allowing the passage of trains in the state, the Indian Railways has claimed losses of nearly Rs1,200 crore in freight revenue with more than 2,225 goods trains suspended and 1,350 passenger trains cancelled or diverted.According to railways’ data, nearly 70 trains are affected per day, in total 1,373 passenger trains have had to be cancelled or diverted, leading to losses of Rs45 crore.Earlier in the day, railway minister Piyush Goyal met a delegation of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MPs from Punjab seeking his intervention in resuming train services. In a letter to Goyal on behalf of the group, Ashwani Sharma, Punjab state president of the BJP, alleged that the state is literally “under siege” of the state government which is playing politics. HT has reviewed the letter.According to the Centre, all inward and outward goods transportation, including essential commodities, has adversely been affected in the northern states and Punjab, Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh and Himachal Pradesh.“The minister assured [Punjab MPs] that Railways was ready to resume operations of the train service as soon as the state government ensures that it is fully safe to operate/ run the trains and that the tracks are fully cleared. Safety in running of trains is of Paramount importance. He further informed the MPs that officials of Railway Board have been in touch with officials of state government to seek early clearance of tracks and would continue to do the same,” the ministry said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trains-in-punjab-will-resume-only-after-blockades-are-removed-says-railways/story-0QWwNGsBpoTNv9dH1mcEOJ.html
06-11-2020||India||India records 47,638 new cases in 24 hours, total tally crosses 8.4 million||India has recorded 47,638 new Covid-19 infections in the last 24 hours, a 5 per cent fall from Thursday’s daily infection cases, health ministry data published on Friday revealed. In the last 24 hours, a total of 54,157 patients have been discharged against 47,638 new cases, marking a positive development in the fight against Covid-19. Data shows 670 people have died of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours against Thursday’s figure of 704. But the fact that daily toll is again rising has become a fresh reason for concern.India’s total tally, as on Friday, stands at 84,11,724.However, the number of total active cases remains below 5 lakh. On Friday, it registered further decrease and stood at 5,20,773.Also Read: Covid-19: 27 states account for less than 20,000 active cases, shows government dataOver 78 per cent of these active cases are concentrated in only 10 states and union territories. Maharashtra (21.53%), Kerala (16.12%), Delhi (7.08%), West Bengal (6.87%), Karnataka (6.76%), Chhattisgarh (4.31%), Uttar Pradesh (4.30%), Andhra Pradesh (4.06%), Tamil Nadu (3.63%), Telangana (3.53%) are contributing maximum to the active number of cases.Active Covid-19 cases are now only 6.31 per cent of the total positive cases of the country. “The declining trend of the active cases is complemented by the unbroken increase, day on day number of recovered cases,” the health ministry has said.According to health ministry data released on Thursday, Kerala is reporting the highest number of new Covid-19 infections in the country. Maharashtra, which was at the top for months, has now come to the third position as far as new cases are concerned. Delhi has taken the second position with more than 6,000 cases being reported daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-47-638-new-cases-in-24-hours-total-tally-crosses-8-4-million/story-KpbOeOpTve8xyJR8XII1cN.html
06-11-2020||India||Former Delhi chief secretary MM Kutty to be chairperson of Air Quality Commission||The Centre has notified the Commission for Air Quality Management for the National Capital Region (NCR) days after it issued an ordinance on October 29 to set up the new agency with sweeping powers to monitor and act against sources of air pollution across five north Indian states. The ordinance empowers the agency to make rules, set emission standards, and slap fines of up to Rs1 crore or imprison violators for up to five years.In a notification issued on Thursday, the Centre said former Delhi chief secretary MM Kutty will be the Commission’s first chairperson. Kutty is also ex-secretary, ministry of petroleum and natural gas.In exercise of its powers under the ordinance, a selection panel under Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar’s chairmanship selected Kutty. The panel that also comprises Union ministers Piyush Goyal, Nitin Gadkari, Harsh Vardhan; and cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba has named Arvind Kumar Nautiyal, joint secretary, as the Commission’s full-time member. Professor Mukesh Khare of Indian Institute of Technology Delhi and KJ Ramesh, former director-general of India Meteorological Department, will be the agency’s full-time technical members. Ajay Mathur, the director-general of The Energy and Resources Institute, and Ashish Dhawan of Air Pollution Action Group have been selected as the Commission’s non-government members. Respective state governments will appoint the rest of the agency’s nine ex-officio members. The rules for the Commission’s functioning are yet to be formulated.Also read | ‘New body shows govt intent’: Epca bows out with grace after 22 yearsAs per the ordinance, the members of the agency have to be drawn from Union ministries, non-governmental organisations and the five states of Delhi, Haryana, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan. The ordinance was issued days after solicitor general Tushar Mehta told the Supreme Court that the Centre will “do everything on a war footing to curb air pollution”. The Centre earlier sought time from the court to create a permanent mechanism to tackle the problem.The Commission replaces all ad hoc committees and bodies created as per court orders. They include the Supreme Court-appointed Environment Pollution Control Authority that was formed to oversee measures to check air pollution in NCR in 1998.The air quality in the national capital and across northern plains has since 2015 plunged to hazardous levels around this time of the year because of farm fires, pre-winter meteorological conditions, and festivals when more people crowd markets and use firecrackers.The Delhi government was on Thursday forced to ban the use of all firecrackers till November 30 as air pollution soared to its worst level in a year. A poisonous blanket of smog engulfed the region as the average air quality index (AQI) slipped to the “severe” category for the first time this season ahead of Diwali when firecrackers are generally used.The Commission will be a statutory authority with powers to issue directions and take up complaints. It can regulate and prohibit activities likely to cause or increase air pollution. The Commission is empowered to lay down parameters and standards. It can restrict industry, activities, processes as well as direct the closure, or prohibit any polluting activity in Delhi-NCR and adjoining areas.The new mechanism brings in a completely new, centralised regime of pollution control. Appeals against any order or direction of the Commission can be made only at the National Green Tribunal. No civil court will have jurisdiction to entertain any suit or proceedings against the decisions of the Commission.The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and state pollution control boards will continue to function. But in case of a conflict, the Commission’s orders will prevail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/environment-ministry-constitutes-commission-for-air-quality-management/story-cw4cAgRnYMQkiAjOgmr5TP.html
06-11-2020||India||Maharashtra govt issues SOPs to contain spread of Covid-19 during Diwali||The Maharashtra government has issued a Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) on preventive measures to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) during Diwali celebrations and has urged the citizens to avoid bursting crackers to curb noise and air pollution.State health minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday said he favours a firecracker-free Diwali this year to reduce air pollution and prevent rise in coronavirus cases.Tope said, “We appeal to the people to have a cracker-free Diwali celebration and we are confident that the people will cooperate for overall betterment of people’s health. The smoke due to firecrackers causes discomfort to people. In the backdrop of the coronavirus outbreak, we must have a cracker-free Diwali.” Maharashtra Government issues Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) on preventive measures to contain the spread of #COVID19 during Diwali celebrations; urges citizens to avoid bursting crackers to curb noise and air pollution. pic.twitter.com/jCYsQI40uXMaharashtra currently has the highest cases and deaths due to the contagion with maximum number of active patients in Pune, Thane, Mumbai, Nashik, Nagpur,Chandrapur, Raigad and Satara. The state has recorded 16,98,198 infections till date and 44,548 fatalities since the first case on March 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-govt-issues-sops-to-contain-spread-of-covid-19-during-diwali/story-Iu0aXvBpyr6EHvzOuVwdlN.html
06-11-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine update: Bharat Biotech candidate launch and AstraZeneca’s hopes||A worldwide search continues for a vaccine to treat the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as the global caseload of the virus is swiftly moving towards the 50 million mark, currently standing at more than 49 million, as per worldometers. The United States, the country worst-hit by the pandemic, continues to log more than 100,000 new daily cases of the infection.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIn the latest update for a Covid-19 vaccine, the launch of a vaccine candidate, which is being developed by Bharat Biotech International Limited, could take place by early next year, a senior government scientist hoped. The firm had earlier said it hoped to launch the candidate by the second quarter of 2021.Here are the latest Covid-19 vaccine updates:(1.) The launch of a Covid-19 vaccine, which is being developed by Hyderabad-headquartered Bharat Biotech in partnership with the government-run Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), could take place by next February. This after a senior ICMR scientist told news agency Reuters that the vaccine candidate, called COVAXIN, “has shown good efficacy.” The scientist, Rajni Kant, further said, “It is expected that by the beginning of the next year, February or March, something would be available.” Last-stage trials of COVAXIN are set to begin this month.Also Read | Bharat Biotech to launch candidate in Q2 2021, Israel starts human trials(2.) British-Swedish multinational firm AstraZeneca’s CEO Pascal Soriot has said the firm hopes to prove its vaccine candidate’s effectiveness by year-end. Speaking on a conference call with analysts, Soriot said AstraZeneca would be ready to supply millions of doses of its vaccine across the world, by January. The firm is working with the University of Oxford on a vaccine candidate called ‘AZD1222,’ which is in late-stage trials in the United States.(3.) Hungary’s government has said it will start importing small quantities of Russian made Covid-19 vaccine, Sputnik V, in December for final testing and licensing. Peter Szijjarto, Hungary’s foreign minister said a Hungarian company may be able to switch from flu shot production to production of the Russian Covid-19 vaccine. Russia has agreed to supply doses of Sputnik V to both Brazil and Argentina as well.Also Read | From CureVac candidate’s immune response in humans to unwilling Russians(4.) Australia’s Prime Minister Scott Morrison on Thursday announced the country had agreed to purchase 50 million more doses of two more potential Covid-19 vaccines. While 40 million doses will be purchased from Novovax, the remaining ten million will be purchased from Pfizer and BioNTech, Morrison announced. In September, Australia had agreed to buy vaccines from AstraZeneca and CSL Limited, should the trials prove successful.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-update-bharat-biotech-looks-at-february-launch-astrazeneca-hopes-to-prove-efficacy-by-year-end/story-S3qUZgiC2TKWHUr1nMdXZN.html
06-11-2020||India||‘No cash with farmers’: BJP after Chhattisgarh delays paddy procurement||Soon after the Chhattisgarh government announced that paddy procurement in the state will start from December 1 instead of November 1, the BJP alleged that farmer organisations will suffer huge losses as the harvesting has already started 15 days ago. The state agriculture minister claimed that there was a shortage of jute sacks in the market because of Covid-19 which has caused the delay in procurement. The BJP also demanded that Congress promise to procure paddy at Rs 25,000, which is around Rs 700 above than Minimum Support Price ( MSP). It further said that the difference amount being given in four installments, should be given in one go to the farmers. “During Raman Singh’s government, the paddy procurement always started from November 1 which was beneficial for the farmers of the state since the paddy harvesting starts from mid-October. Now, since the Congress government decided to procure from December 1, where will the farmers store their paddy? Earlier, after harvesting the farmers used to directly transport paddy to the procurement centres but this time they have to store somewhere… In this process, the farmers of the state will suffer huge losses,” state BJP president Vishnu Deo Sai told Hindustan Times. Sai further said that the farmers have no money in this festive season. “If the paddy procurement would have been done early, the farmer would have had money for Diwali. They have no cash in this festive season,” he said. Notably, in the marketing year 2019-20, the Congress-run government claimed that about 83 lakh metric tonnes of paddy has been procured, which is a record since the formation of the state. In comparison to 2018-19, 2,50,000 more farmers have sold paddy in the state. About 80 lakh metric tonnes of paddy was purchased in the state at the support price last year. In November 2019, the Congress government had decided to procure paddy at Rs 1,835 per quintal, at the rate fixed by the Centre but also said it is committed to fulfilling all the promises made to the state’s farmers. It had also said that it will find a way so that farmers get Rs 2500 per quintal. The Centre had fixed Rs 1,815 per quintal for common grade paddy and Rs 1,835 per quintal for Grade A paddy as compensation. Later, a five-member committee was constituted to study how a benefit of Rs 2,500 per quintal could be ensured to farmers. The Bhupesh Baghel government launched a scheme “ Rajiv Gandhi Nyay Yojna” under which the difference amount will be given in four installments. Raising questions on Yojna, former minister and senior BJP leader Rajesh Munat said that Congress should make it clear whether they are giving the difference amount this time to farmers or not. “State minister Mohammad Akbar has recently said that the government will purchase paddy at MSP and has told nothing about the difference amount. The farmers of the state are confused hence the government should clear the air. Second, the last installment of Rajiv Gandhi Nyay Yojna for 2019-20 marketing year is still pending and the government has announced the date of 2020-19…Why the money is given in installments,” said Munat. Commenting over the allegations, state agriculture minister Ravindra Chaubey said that the BJP has no right to ask questions over installment since it is Congress government’s Yojna. “The BJP should ask their bosses at the Centre why it is not giving a single paisa more than MSP to the farmers of Chhattisgarh? We have made a promise to the farmers and we will fufil it by any means and BJP has no right to ask questions on installments. Second, there is a shortage of jute sacks in the market because of Covid-19, which is the reason behind the delay in procurement. We are committed to procure paddy from the farmers of the state,” Chaubey told HT. “This is a fact that the farmers of the state will suffer due to the delay in paddy procurement for one month. The harvesting has started and most of the farmers have no facility to store their produce. We have demanded that the state government fix the procurement date as November 1,” said Sanket Thakur, Convener, Chhattisgarh Kisan Mazdoor Sangh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-cash-with-farmers-bjp-after-chhattisgarh-delays-paddy-procurement/story-KJJMy77y4rQdcykKp1yh6M.html
06-11-2020||India||Over 70% children with Covid-19 are asymptomatic: AIIMS data||Almost 40% of all the persons who tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) across age groups were found to be asymptomatic, as per data from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences. The data was presented while discussing sensitivity and use of various detection tests by the doctors at the recent National Grand Rounds, a virtual platform for doctors across the country to discuss recent trends and issues in Covid-19 management. With 73.5%, the highest proportion of asymptomatic cases was reported among children below the age of 12. The proportion decreased linearly with age, with only 38.4% of the cases among those above the age of 80 being asymptomatic. “This is the data from our centre. The relevance comes in when we question the validity of an RT PCR test. As there are no symptoms in many of the patients, we do not come to know on which day we are sampling them,” said Dr Urvashi Singh, professor, department of microbiology at AIIMS. Also read | 27 states account for less than 20,000 active cases, shows government dataThe data from the centre showed that the most common symptoms of Covid-19 were fever, fatigue, and loss of smell. While reviewing the current detection tests available in the market, the doctors said CBNAAT or TrueNat – which are cartridge- or chip-based quick molecular tests – are beneficial in semi-emergent patients. “In cases of emergency, one should proceed thinking that the person is positive and take all the precautions. However, in case of semi-emergency, CBNAAT and TrueNat are good tests that can give accurate results quickly and can help in deciding whether a surgery should be performed at the Covid-19 centre,” said Dr Randeep Guleria, director, AIIMS. The doctors also added that there were benefits of the less sensitive rapid antigen test as it can quickly help in screening a positive person in the hospital emergency and allow swift treatment, like in the case of a 65-year-old who came in with sepsis to the hospital. “The Rapid Antigen Test is a good tool for screening and early diagnosis that can help in triaging patients in the emergency and allow rapid management. This is especially true in the low resource setting centre,” said Dr Pawan Tiwari, assistant professor in the department of pulmonology at AIIMS. The Indian Council of Medical Research recommends molecular tests as the preferred method in hospital settings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-70-children-with-covid-19-are-asymptomatic-aiims-data/story-mzriSeKVih4G6cRuom8mCO.html
06-11-2020||India||Covid-19: Commercial activity on, UP records spike in cases||There has been a spike in Covid-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh with Lucknow reporting a 48.92% increase in the number of infections over the past week. Lucknow has reported the maximum--64,311--cases in the state with a positivity rate of 7.30%.Dr PK Gupta, a former president of Indian Medical Association (Lucknow), said there is no second wave of the infections yet but fast multiplication of cases can lead to problems.In Meerut, the daily Covid-19 cases plummeted to 81 on October 17, but the numbers have since been rising. The city reported 175 cases on November 3, which marked a 48.28% rise in the infections. Gautam Buddh Nagar reported a 44.54% rise in the infections on November 3 with 339 fresh cases.Also read | 27 states account for less than 20,000 active cases, shows government data“Multiplication [of cases] will depend upon the number of people in crowds. Hence densely populated pockets in all the cities need focus,” said Prof Kauser Usman of Lucknow’s King George’s Medical University.Association of International Doctors secretary general Dr Abhishek Shukla, said the commercial activity is on and hotels, markets, shops have reopened and that is why the chances of spread of infection too are high. “People need to strictly wear masks and follow social distancing. But this is hardly seen.”On an average, Uttar Pradesh is reporting around 2,000 fresh cases daily. The state has so far reported 489,502 cases and 7,104 deaths. In Lucknow, 11 people succumbed to the disease on Thursday, taking the death toll to 905.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-commercial-activity-on-up-records-spike-in-cases/story-soiVUSF3NUVtLmKyhpF2SM.html
06-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: UP announces cash reward for arrest of absconding anti-CAA, NRC protesters and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan TimesUP announces cash reward for arrest of absconding anti-CAA, NRC protestersThe Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday declared 14 anti-citizenship law and National register of Citizens protesters as absconders and announced cash rewards for their arrest. Eight of these protesters were declared wanted under Gangster Act and notices were pasted outside their houses. Read MorePower sector imports from China to face drastic cuts under new Atmanirbhar Bharat planThe power ministry is set to establish three manufacturing hubs all over the country to produce critical energy and transmission equipment, which is currently fully imported from other countries including China, under the Atmanirbhar Bharat plan announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Read More‘Have decisively won but there was polling interference from big media, big tech’, says US President TrumpUS President Donald Trump on Friday alleged that there was election interference from ‘big media and big tech’ and said that he has won decisively while addressing Americans from the White House. Donald Trump alleged that if the legal votes were counted then he is the winner. He alleged that there was voter fraud and said Democrats ensured that votes that were cast for Donald Trump remain uncounted. Read MoreBentley ultra luxury cars to go electric, roaring 12-cylinder engines to retireBentley Motors Ltd. will ax the roaring 12-cylinder combustion engines that shaped much of the British luxury-car maker’s 100-year history to focus on electric vehicles, the latest seismic automotive shift driven by stricter emissions rules. Read MoreWhatsApp Pay now available to all users in IndiaWhatsApp finally received the approval to launch its UPI-based payment system in India after running it in beta for over two years. The Facebook-owned company has now announced WhatsApp Pay is available to all users on Android and iOS in India. Read MoreIPL 2020, DC vs MI: 4 overs, 14 runs, 1 maiden, 4 wickets – Bumrah registers best T20 bowling figures to maul Delhi CapitalsJasprit Bumrah wreaked havoc in Dubai as Mumbai Indians thumped Delhi Capitals by 57 runs to storm into the final of Indian Premier League (IPL) 2020. The Indian speedster registered his best-ever bowling figures in T20 cricket, guiding Rohit Sharma& Co to a clinical win in the first qualifier on Thursday night. Read MoreAnushka Sharma showers Virat Kohli with love and kisses on his birthday. See picsActor Anushka Sharma shared a couple of cute and romantic pictures with cricketer husband Virat Kohli late on Thursday in celebration of his birthday. The couple is away in Dubai as Virat is currently busy with IPL 2020. Anushka is pregnant with her first child with the Indian skipper. Read MoreIndia conducts joint service exercise in Andaman and Nicobar IslandsThe Andaman and Nicobar Command (ANC) conducted a three-day joint services exercise code-named ‘Bull Strike’ at the remotely located Teressa Island, military officials said on Thursday. The drill began on Tuesday and ended on Thursday and saw participation from three service components of the ANC, elements of Indian Army’s Parachute Brigade, MARCOS (Marine Commando Force), and Special Forces, officials said. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-up-announces-cash-reward-for-arrest-of-absconding-anti-caa-nrc-protesters-and-all-the-latest-news/story-6hjBKxBwdIuuJrqZMaEn8L.html
06-11-2020||India||Covid-19: 27 states account for less than 20,000 active cases, shows govt data||Active coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the country have dipped further, with 27 states having less than 20,000 active cases currently, shows data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare.The states with less than 20,000 active cases include Tamil Nadu with 19,154 active cases, Telangana with 18,656 active cases, Rajasthan having 16, 323 cases, and Haryana reporting 14, 110 active cases.A majority of the active cases are limited to just 10 states that account for 78% of the total active cases in the country. The states are Maharashtra with 21.53% disease burden, Kerala (16.12%), Delhi (7.08%), West Bengal (6.87%), Karnataka (6.76%), Chhattisgarh (4.31%), Uttar Pradesh (4.30%), Andhra Pradesh (4.06%), Tamil Nadu (3.63%) and Telangana (3.53%).Also read | Plan gone haywire, Delhi may soon be ‘coronavirus capital’, says HCMaharashtra, Kerala, Delhi and West Bengal together account for more than 51% of the active cases.“The active cases have been less than 600,000 for the last seven consecutive day and stand at 527,962 currently. The active cases are now only 6.31% of the total positive cases in the country,” said Union health ministry in a statement.Country’s total active cases, which is the actual disease case load, has been steadily declining. A couple of months ago, on September 3, active cases were 21.16% of the total Covid-19 cases in the country. The case load dropped to 20.08% on September 15, 15.11% on September 30, 11.12% on October 15 and now stands at 6.31%. “The declining trend of the active cases is complemented by the unbroken increase, day on day number of recovered cases. The total recovered cases stand at 7,711,809. The gap between recovered cases and active cases has reached nearly 7.2 million (71,83,847). The national recovery rate has further improved to 92.20%,” said the health ministry statement.As high as 82% of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 10 states and Union Territories. Maharashtra, Kerala and Karnataka have contributed the maximum to the single day recoveries with more than 8,000 recoveries. They together account for more than 45% of the new recovered cases, according to the government data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-27-states-account-for-less-than-20-000-active-cases-shows-government-data/story-IsrQEZC0tS14Cv9LRJCxdP.html
06-11-2020||India||UP announces cash reward for arrest of absconding anti-CAA, NRC protesters||The Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday declared 14 anti-citizenship law and National register of Citizens protesters as absconders and announced cash rewards for their arrest.Eight of these protesters were declared wanted under Gangster Act and notices were pasted outside their houses.The accused were charged with arson, spreading communal disharmony and causing damage to public properties during the anti-CAA, NRC protest in Lucknow that turned violent. The accused included Shia cleric Maulana Saif Abbas.The administration also pasted pictures of the accused at many places across the old city area and near Imambara.More than 40 people, including social workers and a retired IPS officer, were arrested following the violent protests in Lucknow in December last year in which one person was killed.The new citizenship law amends the Citizenship Act, 1955, to make people from Hindu, Sikh, Jain, Buddhist, Christian and Parsi faiths who entered India from Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan eligible for citizenship.In Assam, many groups feel that the amended citizenship law will nullify the 1985 Assam Accord, which fixed March 24, 1971 as the cut-off date for deportation of all illegal immigrants irrespective of religion. Activists say that the NRC process was aimed against all illegal immigrants and the citizenship law will selectively benefit non-Muslim migrants into Assam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-announces-cash-reward-for-arrest-of-absconding-anti-caa-nrc-protesters/story-mBsPGgIzu0q4kxSSKCLcZO.html
06-11-2020||India||Arnab Goswami spends another night in custody. Where the case stands now||After the Bombay high court posted the hearing of Republic Television editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami’s interim bail plea to Friday, the 47-year-old journalist spent another night at Alibag Nagar Parishad School, designated as a Covid-19 centre of the prison. Before shifting him to the main jail, in case his bail plea is not granted, he will be tested for Covid-19. Goswami was arrested on Wednesday from his Lower Parel house in Mumbai and was then taken to Alibag in connection with a 2018 case of abetment to suicide. Designer Anvay Naik and his mother Kumud Naik died of suicide and named Goswami as one of the three people who didn’t pay dues amounting to Rs 5.4 crore.Here’s where the case stands1. The Bombay high court heard the case on Thursday and posted it for today as they wanted Anvay Naik’s wife Akshata Naik as a respondent. Maharashtra government and Akshata Naik are the respondents in the case.2. On Thursday, the Alibag police moved a revision application to sessions court seeking quashing of the Chief Judicial Magistrate’s earlier order (in which Goswami was remanded to judicial custody) and the police custody of Goswami. But there are chances that Goswami might get interim relief today.3. At present, there is no bail plea before the Alibag court as Goswami’s counsel Abad Ponda said the bail plea has been withdrawn. As the case now lies with the sessions court, the plea has been withdrawn.4. Goswami is in judicial custody till November 18.5. The police filed the revision application after Chief Judicial Magistrate Sunaina Pingle on Wednesday night denied police custody and termed the arrest ‘prima facie illegal’. Police, in its revision application, said the magistrates court had “erred in not considering the submissions and grounds submitted by the prosecution” while seeking custody of Goswami and the two other arrested accused.The Alibag magistrate court denied police custody and raised two issues.* Did Kumodini (Anvay’s mother) die by suicide? There is no clear answer to this by the prosecution. The police have been unable to establish a link between the deaths of Kumodini Naik and Anvay Naik and the three arrested accused, the court said.*The police have not been able to specifically point out the so-called lacunae in the probe done by the previous police team in 2018, the court observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arnab-goswami-spends-another-night-in-custody-where-the-case-stands-now/story-itdZEP1VFPAgxcF0g4IzuM.html
06-11-2020||India||Covid-19 pandemic is the most catastrophic event after WWII: Shringla||The ongoing coronavirus pandemic is the most catastrophic event after the Second World War, said Foreign Secretary Harsh V Shringla on Thursday, adding that it was inevitable that the people were going to experience a different world in the post-pandemic era. While speaking on the topic ‘Leveraging Strategic Autonomy in a Turbulent World; at the Diamond Jubilee Seminar of the National Defence College, Shringla said: “The Covid-19 pandemic is the most catastrophic event after the 2nd World War. It is therefore inevitable that we will experience a different world in the post-pandemic era. We are in the midst of trying to cope with the new reality of going virtual in our day to day life. At the international level, it has uncovered the vulnerabilities of nations and showed us the real manifestation of the practice of international relations.”He said that while there was a strong intent to cooperate, the need to retain ‘strategic autonomy’ was greater, and the last few months had been an attempt to deal with the domestic situation and look for ways to cooperate.The Foreign Secretary further mentioned that the global economic fallout of the pandemic was going to be a challenge in times to come.“As we saw during the 2008 global recession, economic setbacks of this magnitude require a carefully deliberated approach. The breakdown of the global supply chains has, perhaps for the first time, led us to think and explore alternative possibilities. India’s view has been to look at this challenge not as a constraint but as an opportunity for our economy as well as for rebalancing in the international system,” he added.Shringla also highlighted India’s ‘proactive domestic response’ in dealing with the pandemic, giving details about the expansion of capacity in the healthcare sector, also channelling of India’s public resources to the critical sector for the development of hospitals, emergency rooms, provision of equipment and supplies and training of healthcare professionals, and the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan and its stimulus packages introduced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“India has played a leading role in initiating and encouraging global conversations on evolving a coordinated response to the pandemic. Further, living up to the teaching of “Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam” (the whole world is one family), India played an instrumental role in enhancing global health security by ensuring the supply of essential medicines even while meeting its own domestic requirements,” he said.“We provided medical supplies, in the form of essential drugs, test kits, protection gear, etc. to over 150 countries, and are extending medical assistance under grants-in-aid to over 80 countries; we sent rapid response medical teams to help Maldives, Kuwait, Mauritius, and Comoros deal with the pandemic; and we dispatched naval assets to deliver Covid related assistance to Maldives, Mauritius, Madagascar, Comoros and Seychelles. We have also successfully brought back over 1.8 million Indian nationals stranded abroad due to Covid-19 pandemic under the Vande Bharat Mission,” added the Foreign Secretary.In his address, Shringla talked about various topics, including India’s global engagements, its membership of the UN Security Council next year, its position as a ‘net security provider’ in the extended neighbourhood among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-pandemic-is-the-most-catastrophic-event-after-wwii-shringla/story-oYPH6ndPgpci1qvpoEXrwO.html
06-11-2020||India||Govt eases guidelines for BPOs, norms to facilitate ‘Work From Home’||The government on Thursday announced simplified guidelines for BPOs and ITES companies to reduce the compliance burden on them and to facilitate ‘Work From Home’ and ‘Work From Anywhere’ framework. The new rules for Other Service Providers (OSPs) seek to create a friendly regime for ‘Work from Home’ and ‘Work from Anywhere’, while removing frequent reporting obligations for such companies, according to an official release. The move assumes significance as the industry had been asking for relaxations for ‘Work From Home’ to continue on a permanent basis as the sector moves towards a blended working model in the post-Covid-19 era. Put simply, OSPs are entities providing applications services, IT enabled services or any kind of outsourcing services using telecom resources. The term refers to Business Process Outsourcing (BPOs), Knowledge Process Outsourcing (KPOs), IT Enabled Services (ITES) players, call centres, amongst others. The detailed guidelines issued by the Telecom Department on Thursday said that the concept of ‘Work From Home’ will be encouraged and that “work from home has been extended to provide Work-From-Anywhere in India”. This facility of extended agent/Remote Agent Position (that is ‘Work From Home/Anywhere’) is permitted with certain conditions, it said, adding that agents at home shall be treated as ‘Remote Agents’ of the OSP Centre and interconnection is permitted. “The Remote Agent is also allowed to work from any place within India...OSP shall be responsible for any violation related to toll-bypass,” it added. Over the past few months, the government has taken various measures to facilitate work from home. It had earlier extended connectivity norms for remote working in IT and BPO companies till December 31. The official release on Thursday said that several requirements which prevented companies from adopting ‘Work from Home’ and ‘Work from Anywhere’ policies have now been removed, while additional dispensations to enhance flexibility for the industry have been allowed. Lauding the move, industry body Nasscom said, “Access to remote working will give our industry an epic boost and significantly expand access to talent, increase job creation, catapult Indian IT and BPM to the next level of growth and innovation, thereby making India a global tech hub”. Nasscom termed the overall regulatory changes as “bold reforms” for ITES/BPO players. The government statement said that the new framework will provide a strong impetus to India’s industry and will make India one of the most competitive IT jurisdictions in the world. Notably, the new rules do away with the registration requirement for OSPs, while the BPO industry engaged in data related work has been taken out of the ambit of the said regulations. Under the revamped guidelines, requirements such as deposit of bank guarantees, requirement for static IPs, frequent reporting obligations, publication of network diagram, and penal provisions have also been removed. The release further said that the new guidelines are aimed at removing “unnecessary bureaucratic restrictions” in order to allow the industry to focus on innovative new products and solutions. “India’s IT sector is our pride. The prowess of this sector is recognised globally. We are committed to doing everything possible to ensure a conducive environment for growth and innovation in India. Today’s decisions will especially encourage young talent in the sector!,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted. Nasscom, in its statement, said the new guidelines will tremendously reduce the compliance burden of the business process management (BPM) industry. “It is extremely heartening to see the government’s commitment towards Ease of Doing Business, and its focus towards IT-BPM industry’s sustainable future,” Nasscom said. The government said the latest reform reflects its strong support to the IT industry, with a view to encourage increased investment in the sector. “The reform will certainly unleash the potential of our talented youth by making India as a preferred destination for Information and Knowledge Outsourcing Industry and would further the vision of ‘AtmaNirbhar Bharat’,” the release added. Communications and IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad tweeted, “Today @narendramodi Govt has taken a major reform initiative to liberalize the regulatory regime for “Other Service Provider”. This will boost the IT/ ITeS/ BPO industry and create a friendly regime for Work from Home in India.” Nasscom Senior Director and Public Policy Head Ashish Aggarwal said India is a global outsourcing hub and the new guidelines will promote outsourcing at scale, bringing in more work to India. “With the relaxations in WFH (Work From Home) regulations, companies will be able to tap into talent from small towns and remote parts of the country,” Aggarwal said, adding that the new guidelines offer further clarity and will bring in ease of doing business. WNS Group CEO Keshav Murugesh tweeted that this “brilliant step” will catapult Indian IT and BPM to the next level of growth, global impact, job creation and development of small towns and cities in tier III and IV locations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-eases-guidelines-for-bpos-norms-to-facilitate-work-from-home/story-gMViJVb15Hudd7KeJFxWgK.html
06-11-2020||India||Delhiwale: Stein’s shadow games||Look carefully. The building is changing with the progress of the day. The roof expands as the sun moves. You feel its gradual shifting. The outer edges seem to free themselves from the concrete, and to stretch out.This has to be one of the most wondrous architectures in Delhi. Although the building houses a popular institution, who is aware of this particular magical feature?Of course, every artistic Delhiite has been to Triveni Kala Sangam at least once in her lifetime—if not to see exhibitions or enrol in classical music classes, then to dine at the atmospheric Triveni Tea Terrace. It is one of the capital’s earliest Stein buildings, designed by the great American architect Joseph Stein, circa 1957.Like most garden buildings by Stein, Triveni’s brick-and-mortar subtly strives to fuse with trees and grass. Flowers and vines spill about the walls, which are often a gossamer web of jaalis (perforated stone), whose narrow openings let the daylight sneak in like a secret lover. The entire space is designed so poetically that it enables lights and shadows to entwine into each other in most harmonious patterns. Of course, you see such sublime interplay in Delhi’s other Stein landmarks, too, such as the India International Centre.But it is on stepping on the rarely visited first landing in Triveni that one encounters the astonishing surreality of Stein’s art. Initially, the terrace appears deceptively simple—just an open-air expanse with a strange structure at the centre: a mere roof supported by two pillars. But the roof in question is made of narrow slabs that let the sky percolate through them. The sunlight thus creates a geometric web on the terrace floor, that expands and contracts with the passing of hours.This afternoon, the rectangles of light and pillars of shadows have spread out to the entire floor—the climax of the composition, one would say. The yard is totally bare except for a few flower pots. This scarcity of material elements focuses the viewer’s entire attention to this lovemaking between light and shadows. The minimalism is so grand it ceases to be minimalist. It’s magic.While down there, you can see the usual crowd milling about in the galleries and the cafe (a sight so normal in pre-corona days), totally oblivious to the stunning show underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-stein-s-shadow-games/story-caHxQg2KcDyUvBL8zyqp1M.html
06-11-2020||India||Odisha: Two-day joint coastal security exercise ‘Sagar Kavach’ begins||A two-day joint coastal security exercise, “Sagar Kavach” was launched at Paradip Coast here on Thursday.The exercise is being carried out by a joint effort of the state of Odisha and West Bengal governments. More than 10 such departments, including the Indian Navy, the Indian Coast Guard, the Odisha Police, the local fishermen, the forest department, and the port marine department, have joined the joint exercise.The exercise will be held for two days on November 5 and 6.The main purpose of the exercise is to carry out the exercise on the coast of Paradip this year, just like every year after the 26/11 Mumbai attacks. The exercise is being carried out to prevent a repeat of the Mumbai attacks by sea. It will run for two days, with red and green forces being formed to infiltrate and prevent attacks. This year for coastal security the exercise was named “Sagar Kavach”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-two-day-joint-coastal-security-exercise-sagar-kavach-begins/story-sM818jn69d3hWj1GeKNF4L.html
06-11-2020||India||Bombay high court to hear Arnab Goswami’s bail plea today||The Bombay high court will hear on Friday a petition by Republic TV editor-in- chief Arnab Goswami seeking interim bail in the 2018 abetment of suicide case in which he was arrested on Wednesday, setting off a political storm with many leaders comparing the development with the Emergency.Goswami, 47, was arrested by Alibag Police on Wednesday from his residence for allegedly abetting the suicide of interior designer Anvay Naik in May 2018. He later claimed he was assaulted by officers – a charge refuted by police. Late Wednesday night, a magistrate’s court in Alibag remanded Goswami to judicial custody till November 18. The anchor spent the night at Alibag Nagar Parishad School, which is designated as a Covid-19 centre of the Alibag prison, officials said.On Thursday, Goswami’s lawyers moved the high court, seeking a stay on the investigation and a direction to the police to release him. They also asked that the FIR against him be quashed.“He has been wrongly and illegally arrested in a motivated, false and closed case. This is another attempt of political witch-hunt against the petitioner and his channel,” the petition said.“The arrest was conducted in blatant violation of the fundamental rights to life and personal liberty of the petitioner (Goswami) and his dignity,” it added.A division bench of justices SS Shinde and MS Karnik directed Goswami to make the complainant, Akshata Naik, Naik’s wife, a respondent. “We have to hear all the parties concerned before considering the interim relief sought,” the bench said. “The respondents (Maharashtra government and the complainant) are entitled to respond....We will consider the interim relief sought tomorrow,” the court said.In Alibag, the local police filed a revision application in the sessions court against Goswami after the court observed the journalist’s arrest appeared illegal. The application will be heard Saturday. In her order, chief judicial magistrate Sunayana S Pingale noted the prosecution failed to prima facie establish a link between the deceased and accused. “In view of the objections raised by the defence lawyers and grounds raised by the prosecution to seek police custody, the arrest itself appears illegal. After careful screening of the document, it appears that the connection between the incident and the deaths of two people, the connection between the deceased and the accused should have been determined before seeking police custody. Only if this chain of circumstances is intact, the connection of the incident with the accused can be established to seek police custody of the accused.” Senior counsel Abad Ponda, appearing for Goswami, said a bail plea filed before the Alibag court was withdrawn. “The magistrate had not given clarity on when the bail plea would be heard and had also expressed difficultly in hearing the same as the case lies in the jurisdiction of the sessions court.”Senior advocate Harish Salve, also appearing for Goswami, argued that no prejudice will be caused to the prosecution if he was released on bail.Naik and his mother Kumud Naik were found dead at their farmhouse in Alibag on May, 2018. Naik’s wife Akshata Naik then registered a case. A suicide note alleged Naik and his mother were forced to end their lives because he was not paid dues amounting to Rs 5.4 crore by Goswami and two others. At the time, local police closed the case because of insufficient evidence.The two others named in the note -- Feroz Shaikh, owner of technology firm IcastX /Skimedia, and Nitesh Sarda, owner of firm Smartwork – were also arrested by police.In the FIR, police claimed ARG Outlier Media Private Limited – the parent company of Republic TV – didn’t pay dues of Rs 83 lakh to Naik for building Republic TV’s studios, called the Bombay Dyeing Studio Project. Police also alleged that Shaikh didn’t pay Naik Rs 4 crore for his project in Andheri in Mumbai; and Sarda didn’t pay Rs 55 lakh for his projects at Magarpatta and Baner in Pune.Other than this, Goswami, his wife and son also face an FIR by Mumbai Police for allegedly assaulting a police official.In the high court, Goswami’s lawyers argued that police resurrected a dead case in which a closure report was filed. It claimed that in May 2018, police recorded the statements of Goswami and two senior officials of Republic TV, and he also provided documents to the police about the business transactions with Naik’s company. ARG Outlier paid over 90% of the amount due to Naik.“In July 2019, the entire balance amount due was transferred to the bank account of Naik’s company but the amount was returned because the account was inoperative,” it said.The arrest of the right-leaning anchor had sparked a political row on Wednesday with senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders, including Union home minister Amit Shah, comparing the situation to the Emergency. The Congress and Shiv Sena, which rule Maharashtra in alliance with the Nationalist Congress Party, pushed back on the criticism and called it selective outrage.On Thursday, BJP legislator Ram Kadam met governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari seeking action against police officials while Sena leader Sanjay Raut urged central ministers and BJP leaders to meet Naik’s family. The case has acquired a political hue because of the bad blood between Goswami and his channel on one side, and the Maharashtra government and the Mumbai Police on the other.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-high-court-to-hear-arnab-goswami-s-bail-plea-today/story-KDIt4kQCKVH5L03sMCw38K.html
06-11-2020||India||Will enact laws on interfaith marriage, cow slaughter: Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Thursday said that the government would bring in laws on interfaith marriage and against cow slaughter in the state. The CM said that women were being lured to convert in the name of love and that strong steps would be taken to enact a law to prevent this. “We are discussing with our party leaders as well as with officials to put in place an effective law to prevent such instances,” he said.To be sure, religious conversion is protected by law and is a state subject. While a bunch of states already have laws in place that make conversion through inducement,or deception an offence that invites a jail term, the RSS and a few BJP-ruled states want laws that specifically deal with conversion through interfaith marriage. BJP national general secretary C T Ravi in a tweet had recently said that on lines of Allahabad HC’s order, Karnataka will enact a law banning religious conversions for the sake of marriage. The CM also pointed out that an anti-cow slaughter law implemented by the BJP government in 2008 had been repealed by the subsequent Congress government. “This time we will bring an even more stronger anti-cow slaughter law.” He however did not indicate a timeline on when these laws would be implemented but said it would be done ‘soon.’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-enact-laws-on-interfaith-marriage-cow-slaughter-karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa/story-KXCpSKb3QUJ5vP7cFA0q5O.html
06-11-2020||India||Power sector imports from China to face drastic cuts under new Aatmanirbhar Bharat plan||The power ministry is set to establish three manufacturing hubs all over the country to produce critical energy and transmission equipment, which is currently fully imported from other countries including China, under the Aatmanirbhar Bharat plan announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.According to authoritative government officials, the Indian power sector in 2018-2019 imported Rs 71,000 crore of equipment, of which Rs 21,235 crore came from China, according to the Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence (DGCI). While the government has managed to push down imports from China, the numbers are still humongous considering that a several of these equipment were being manufactured in India. Yearly Chinese imports in the power sector have been worth Rs 17,289 crore (2009-2010); Rs 22,114 crore (2010-2011); Rs 34,000 crore (2011-2012); Rs 29,062 crore (2012-2013); Rs 22,679 crore (2013-2014); Rs 19,658 crore (2014-2015); Rs 19,301 crore (2015-2016); Rs 19,757 crore (2016-2017), and Rs 19,682 crore (2017-2018).In order to be self-reliant and cut down imports, particularly from China, the ministry has prepared two lists. The first or the mandatory list has 239 items in which India has zero capacity to manufacture and, hence, must rely on imports till such time the manufacturing hubs come up. The second or the embargo list contains 95 items which are being imported by the power sector despite being manufactured in India. It has been decided that no power sector company, PSU or private, will be allowed to import items on the embargo list. Both these lists will be annexures with the Aatmanirbhar Bharat policy. While the Centre will ask states to bid for manufacturing hubs for the mandatory items, it plans to give budgetary grants for creation of common infrastructure in these hubs including 24x7 water, power, roads and common testing facilities. A special purpose vehicle will be created for these hubs, which are expected to be set up in the next three to four years. The power ministry has already informed major PSUs such as NTPC, NHPC, PGCI and power sector associations about their plans to limit imports to the minimum and enhance domestic capacities. The ministry has also decided to not only prepare its own designated laboratories for testing of imported power equipment but also coin own references and protocols for other countries. This is being done to ensure that imported equipment does not contain malware that gets activated by the country where the equipment was manufactured in times of a national security crisis. Cyber attacks through activating embedded malware by country from where the power equipment was imported can lead to crippling of Indian power grid in adverse times, experts say.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/power-ministry-to-set-up-manufacturing-hubs/story-y5XEWzVIZ80XZBkHRvcMrI.html
06-11-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Wednesday evening, as the haze enveloped Delhi, it was clear that Thursday would be bad. Sure enough, the Capital woke up to proper smog on Thursday (the smog did make things warmer from the premature chill that’s settled in over the northern plains). As this column – the 199th instalment of what began on March 19 – is being written in the late morning of Thursday, the light has become better, the sun is out, but the air quality is still bad according to the Sameer app (AQI 472). That AQI level corresponds to what is called “severe” air quality. It’s nothing new for Delhi, of course, but it’s still bad, and likely to get worse.At this stage, I’d like to reassure regular readers of this column whose eyes are flipping back to the headline that this is still a daily dispatch on what you need to know about Covid-19 today, not one on what you need to know about Delhi’s bad air today. There are two reasons why I began with the pollution.AIR POLLUTION AND COVIDDelhi’s first official “severe” AQI day this season is inopportunely timed – it comes shortly after a study published in a respected journal found that sustained exposure to bad air – specifically PM 2.5 particulate matter – has a direct correlation with Covid-19 mortality rates.The first is that Delhi’s first official “severe” AQI day this season is inopportunely timed – it comes shortly after the respected journal Science Advances published a paper titled “Air Pollution and Covid-19 mortality in the United States: Strengths and limitations of an ecological regression analysis”. According to Francesca Dominici of Harvard University, and other authors, sustained exposure to bad air – specifically PM 2.5 particulate matter, with a diameter less than 2.5 microns – has a direct correlation with Covid-19 mortality rates. This is the point at which deniers are likely to wonder how the researchers managed to arrive at this conclusion given the recency of Covid-19, and the fact that the effects of exposure to bad air are, much like the effects of smoking, likely to set in over time. The researchers got around this by using an ecological regression analysis of “historical exposure to PM 2.5” and Covid-19 mortality rates. RELEVANCE FOR DELHIAccording to the study, an increase of one microgram per cubic metre “in the long term average of PM 2.5 is associated with a statistically significant 11% increase in the country’s Covid-19 mortality rate”. That’s bad news for Delhi, where Covid-19 cases are on the rise again. The paper, however, only seeks to establish a link between bad air and Covid-19 mortality; it did not study linkages between incidence of the disease and bad air.Shorn of jargon, this meant taking average PM 2.5 concentrations for a long period of time (the researchers took daily data for 16 years) and saw what impact this has on Covid-19 death rates across US counties. They used what is called a negative binomial mixed model for this. They also adjusted their analysis for other factors, including population density, poverty, education, and weather. While admitting that their study can’t “adjust for individual level risk factors”, they suggest that it can be improved by incorporating “individual-level” data.The study found that an increase of one microgram per cubic metre “in the long term average of PM 2.5 is associated with a statistically significant 11% increase in the country’s Covid-19 mortality rate”. That’s bad news for Delhi, where Covid-19 cases are on the rise (again). There are other studies, including some peer reviewed ones from Europe that previously established the link between air pollution and Covid-19 mortality, but none followed as rigorous a methodology as the Harvard one. And none established as strong a correlation.To be sure, the study only seeks to establish a link between bad air and Covid-19 mortality; it did not study linkages between incidence of the disease and bad air – which means that there is no basis for claiming that there is a relationship between Delhi’s air pollution and the spike in case numbers (although there may well be one).The second reason is that there is a great deal of similarity in how India and Indians have dealt with the two health crises, air pollution and Covid-19.Understanding and responding to both requires a fundamental belief in, and respect for science and data, something that hasn’t always been evident. And successfully managing both requires, at least in part, behavioural change, where, again, everyone concerned (from administrations down to all of us, the people) has been found wanting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-6hBUWMmnQw3Y93Bh3yfuBO.html
06-11-2020||India||Jagan govt to take up land survey in Andhra from January 1||The Andhra Pradesh government will launch a comprehensive survey of all lands in the state in an attempt to identify genuine land owners, provide them permanent land rights, eliminate encroachments and put an end to all land disputes. A decision to this effect was taken at the state cabinet meeting held in the secretariat on Thursday. Named as “‘YSR Jagananna Saswatha Bhoomi Hakku-Bhoomi Rakshana,” the comprehensive land survey will take off from January 1. “Every inch of the land in the State will be resurveyed using the latest technology involving drones, 4,500 survey teams and 15,000 surveyors with an estimated expenditure of about Rs 1000 crore,” state agriculture minister K Kanna Babu told reporters after the cabinet meeting. He said the state government would mark the boundaries and issue passbooks to land owners. It would set up a mobile court to resolve the land disputes on the spot. “Such a survey is overdue and is being held in the state after a gap of over 100 years,” the minister said. The cabinet also approved a new sand policy which is aimed at outsourcing sand excavation, storage and sale of sand to the end users. The minister said the government would first offer sand excavation, storage and sale to central public undertakings like National Mineral Development Corporation. “Discussions are being held with eight central public sector undertakings, including NMDC,” he said. If these central government undertakings do not come forward for sand mining, it would be entrusted to private parties that have technical expertise, efficiency and financial strength through open auction in a transparent manner. Kanna Babu said users could directly go to the sand reaches and transport sand using their own vehicles without any additional cost. The tenders have been sorted into three groups with three districts in each group, where separate tenders will be called for each group. The government shall fix the prices for buying at the reach and for door delivery based on the distance while sand can be booked both online and offline, it said. The cabinet also approved the construction of Integrated Data Centre, Integrated IT and Business Park, Recreation Centre and Skill Development University in Visakhapatnam with Rs 14,630 crore and the project will be taken up by Adani Group. The cabinet approved the land allocation to 16 new medical colleges in various districts, provision of loans to the extent of Rs 1,362 crore to self-help group women for setting up dairy units and door delivery of fine rice under public distribution system directly to the consumers among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jagan-govt-to-take-up-land-survey-in-andhra-from-january-1/story-8sC4ZC40iHryaeTSMCT9EM.html
06-11-2020||India||Only 78% funds for migrant scheme used||The Union government’s special mission to provide jobs for migrant workers has been able to spend around 78% or Rs 38,921 crore out of its kitty of Rs 50,000 crore, triggering a debate if a large number of beneficiaries had returned to cities and let go of the scheme. The latest data on the scheme, Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan, also shows that it generated 473 million days of work, mostly in construction-related activities. As millions of migrant workers left cities after the Covid pandemic triggered a federal lockdown, the government announced in June that it will frontload funds in 25 ongoing schemes and the “focused campaign” will run in mission mode for 125 days across 116 districts in six states to help migrant workers get jobs. Prime Minister Narendra Modi kick-started the mission from Bihar on June 20. The state had received the largest number of migrant workers—3 million—since the pandemic swept through India, leaving daily-wagers jobless in big cities. “In 125 days, nearly 25 schemes will be brought together to reach saturation. These will include Pradhan Mantri awas yojna, gram sadak yojna, jal Jeevan yojna, PM gram sadk yojna, etc,” finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said in the press conference, announcing the mission. The latest data showed that of the 25 schemes, the rural housing programme (PMAY-G) has seen the largest number or 475,692 projects, followed by 156,211 water conservation and harvesting works and 92,158 projects on laying of fibre optic cables under Bharat Net. To be sure, the progress report of the scheme would overlap with the outcome data of individual schemes as the nature of this mission was to create a special basket of jobs out of existing programmes. Thus, the jobs generated under rural housing scheme would also reflect as the MGNREGS persondays as the latter allows beneficiaries to work for 90 days to construct PMAY houses. The government also stated that “objectives of this 125 days Abhiyaan, with a resource envelop of Rs 50,000 crore” are to “provide livelihood opportunities to returning migrants and similarly affected rural citizens, saturate villages with public infrastructure - Anganwadis, Panchayat Bhawans, Community Sanitary Complexes etc” and “Set stage for enhancing longer term livelihood opportunities”. “I think surveys and anecdotal evidence have shown that a large number of migrant workers returned to the cities. The MGNREGS figures too, show that demand for work has fallen. In these circumstances there is enough reason to conclude that there is a drop in demand for the scheme. But I must also add that it was a good decision and the provisioning was also good. At that time, when migrants were desperately returning to their villages, people wanted something to cling on,” said former rural development secretary Jugal Kishore Mohapatra. While anecdotal accounts support the view that a lot of migrants have gone back to the cities, high frequency indicators on employment suggest that the urban job market might not have recovered from the pandemic’s economic shock. The latest (September) RBI consumer confidence survey shows that perception on current employment in cities continued to deteriorate. Even though the Purchasing Managers’ Index for both manufacturing and services entered the expansion zone in October, enterprises continued to report a decline in employment. (With inputs from Roshan Kishore)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-78-funds-for-migrant-scheme-used/story-at3kgspSP8MMY2wttGNMXM.html
06-11-2020||India||Rajasthan opts for Centre’s borrowing plan to meet GST shortfall||The Congress-rules Rajasthan became the 25th member of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council to accept the Centre’s option of borrowing a total of Rs 1.1 lakh crore (by all members) to meet part of the GST revenue shortfall in 2020-21, the Union finance ministry said on Thursday.“Rajasthan has also opted for the special borrowing window under Option-1 on the issue of meeting the GST compensation cess shortfall. The payment of back-to-back loan to Rajasthan will be made available soon,” a finance ministry spokesperson said. According to a finance ministry statement on Monday, union territory (UT) of Puducherry also accepted the Centre’s borrowing option of Rs 1.1 lakh crore. Now the number of dissenting states and UTs has reduced to six, he said: Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Kerala, Punjab, Telangana and West Bengal. These states want the centre to borrow the entire estimated Rs 2.35 lakh crore revenue shortfall and compensate them unconditionally. At the 41st GST Council on August 27, the Union government gave two borrowing options to states to meet their revenue shortfall of about Rs 2.35 lakh crore in the current financial year. Two days later, it specified that under the first option, states would not have to pay either principal or interest if they borrow only Rs 97,000 crore (this amount was later raised to Rs 1.1 lakh crore) to meet the GST revenue shortfall because of implementation issues. However, they would have to bear significant interest costs if they chose the second option of borrowing Rs 2.35 lakh crore that included revenue shortfall due to the implementation issues as well as Covid-19. Initially 10 GST members objected and insisted the entire borrowing would have to be done by the Centre without imposing any direct interest burden on states. Later, Tamil Nadu and Delhi accepted the first option. Although, the Kerala government softened its stand after Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman wrote to states on October 15 that the central government would borrow Rs 1.1 lakh crore from the market on behalf of states and pass the same as a loan to them, it is yet to formally accept the Union government’s proposal.Before Puducherry and Rajasthan signed up for the first borrowing option, 21 states and two 2UTs had accepted the Centre’s proposals. They were -- Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Bihar, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Odisha, Sikkim, Tamil Nadu, Tripura, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir (UT) and Delhi (UT).The finance ministry has already completed two tranches of borrowing, of Rs. 6,000 crore each through the special window of Reserve Bank of India, and the amount has been distributed to states and UTs as are per their entitlement on October 26 and November 2.In the first tranch of borrowing, Rs. 6,000 crore was released to 16 states and 2 UTs as per their entitlement at an interest rate of 5.19% while in the second trench, an amount of Rs. 6,000 has been given to 16 states and three UTs at an interest rate of 4.42%.“The loan amount in lieu of GST Compensation Cess releases has been passed on back-to-back basis to the states, namely - Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Meghalaya, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, and UTs, namely - NCT of Delhi, Jammu and Kashmir and Puducherry, at the same interest rate, which is lower than the cost of borrowings for the States and UTs,” the spokesperson said.MS Mani, a partner at consulting firm Deloitte India said both the Centre and states have worked together to resolve most of the differences, which is the spirit of the GST regime. “This development is a reaffirmation of the spirit of cooperative federalism demonstrated by the States and Centre since the introduction of GST. Considering the surge in GST collections since the past two months, it would now be even more reassuring to the States that they would be able to meet their revenue requirements.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-opts-for-centre-s-borrowing-plan-to-meet-gst-shortfall/story-edE1TUh6SEeYSUgFljsNkL.html
06-11-2020||India||Covid-19: Tamil Nadu first state to test 10 million people, all RT PCR||Every morning at 8, Sugitha Munuswamy, 30, a Covid-19 sample collector walks from her home in Kannagi Nagar (a resettlement slum colony in Chennai) to the primary healthcare centre, 15 minutes away.At the Centre, she puts on a white PPE, wears double gloves, two masks and a scrub cap; picks up testing kits and climbs into an ambulance, doubling as a sample collection vehicle. For the next eight hours, she goes around Sholinganallur zone in Chennai to draw nasal and throat swabs.Sugitha’s mother wants her to quit fearing the deadly virus. “My mother asks me everyday how many samples I had collected,” Sugitha said. “I always underplay it.”The 100-odd sample she collects is a small fraction in Tamil Nadu’s high testing numbers. On November 5, Tamil Nadu tested a total of 10 million people (10,052,393) in the state with more reliable RT PCR (Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) test, the only state in India to have done so till date. On November 1, it crossed the 10-million mark of the number of persons tested in all.Uttar Pradesh has the highest testing count in India at 15.4 million, but only 5.8 million of these tests are of RT-PCR and about 8.8 million are of the less accurate rapid antigen tests. In tests per million, Delhi tops at 243,339 and Tamil Nadu is at 134,353. Antigen accounts for about 40% of the total tests in Delhi. Maharashtra’s per million tests is 74,664 and Uttar Pradesh’s 68,038.Tamil Nadu has 736,777 cases which is the fourth highest in India. In July, the average daily cases peaked, but since October there is a downward trend in new positive cases. “We are searching for the virus and chasing it,” health minister C Vijayabhaskar has said often.Tamil Nadu was able to achieve the fete because of better RT-PCR facilities and patient tracking system because of its past efforts in AIDS and H1N1 control. For Covid-19, the state health department just added surveillance and testing to the existing system. One such measure was roping in laboratory technicians, like Sugitha who is trained to collect oral swabs to test for tuberculosis (TB). Sugitha joined the corporation in December 2019 under the National TB Elimination Project. She was brought into the Covid-19 workforce in April.The network is brought together like a well-oiled machine by door-to-door enumeration, fever camps and home quarantine and isolation monitoring system (HQIMS). “The state provided 100-crore for strengthening our home surveys and HQIMS,” said Greater Chennai Municipal Corporation commissioner G Prakash. Covid detection starts with the fever surveyors like J Sivalingadurai (the corporation’s paid volunteer since April 16) going door-to-door. Each surveyor is assigned 150 homes. Sivalingadurai’s assigned families are in a posh multi-storey apartment on Old Mahabalipuram Road in south Chennai, where techies from across India and abroad live. He visits each home daily and asks the same set of questions: “How are you feeling today? Do you have a fever? Can you smell?” His intrusion is crucial in identifying a host of the virus. “Bro!” one woman techie exclaimed in relief as soon as she saw him at her door on June 26 morning. “Check our temperatures,” she had told him. The woman in her mid-20s and her two roommates had developed fever the previous night. Since they had popped paracetomols, the thermal scanner showed no fever. “If they hadn’t told me about their fever, I wouldn’t have known,” said Sivalingadurai, adding going every day helps in building trust.The woman techie was sent to a fever camp. She tested positive and moved to a quarantine facility. Her roommates turned negative but were put on home quarantine. Fever camps became a crucial link in virus control measures. So far, 3,378,398 people have attended the camps in Chennai with 15% positive rate.The fever camps have been increased to 550 in Chennai from 300 in May. “We replicated Chennai’s model, particularly the fever camps in Madurai and it worked in reducing the virus spread,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan.Doctors at the fever camps or sanitary inspectors call sample collectors like Sugitha to specific locations. Once a technician draws a swab, they transfer it to a tube packed in vaccine carrier for the civic staff in the evening to carry them to the King Institute of Preventive Medicine and Research, the first testing lab approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research for Covid-19 testing in Tamil Nadu. The state now has 203 government and private testing facilities.As the cases have increased, testing at labs has risen by almost 20 times. At a Chennai private lab, the lead microbiologist, who did not wish to be named, started by testing 50 samples a day in mid-April which increased to 800 in July and now she tests around a 1,000 samples.“In the early days, I used to say a prayer for every patient’s sample tube I held,” she said. “Now we have reached a saturation point, we feel neutral.” Inside the bio-safety cabinet, she opens the sample vial for extraction and loads it into the RT-PCR machine. It takes 45 minutes to process a batch of 12 samples. Microbiologists work in three shifts to keep testing 24x7 at this lab. The final step in the testing process is the (PCR) machine detecting if the specific SARS-CoV-2 genome is present in the sample (if the detected patient is positive). It takes between 24 to 48 hours before a patient receives their result. If the report is positive, a sanitary inspector (SI) inspects the patient’s home to certify if they have a separate room and toilet for home quarantine. The SI also starts contact tracing to isolate potential virus carriers. “In emergency situations or if patients are in the vulnerable category, I call the zonal officer to check availability of beds and send them directly to the hospital in an ambulance,” says SI of Chennai’s Sholinganallur zone, S Nayanaprakasan, who also coordinates amongst patients, their families, field workers like Sugitha, Sivalingadurai as well as senior officials of GCC. “We peaked in July when I was seeing at least 25 cases a day and now in October we are seeing only one or two cases per day,” he says, about his division.“Because of these structural methods, there has been no outbreak or spurt in Chennai in the recent months,” said civic chief Prakash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-first-state-to-test-10-mn-all-rt-pcr/story-Aesl3QtqRVxQhpsM3NheSN.html
06-11-2020||India||Parliamentary committee on data protection focuses on cracking down on Chinese equipment||The joint parliamentary committee on personal data protection led by Bharatiya Janata Party MP Meenakshi Lekhi has asked Reliance Jio, Ola and Uber to explain whether they use equipment sourced from China, people familiar with the matter told HT. The issue has been a recurring theme for the panel. Last week, Patym and Google were asked similar questions about their relationship with the neighbouring country.The committee’s questions come amid tensions with China at the border, that rose after the death of 20 Indian soldiers and an unidentified number of Chinese soldiers in June. The government has been cracking down on China’s electronic footprint in India, with over 200 mobile applications with links to the country banned. The government is also considering not letting Chinese companies, such as Huawei and ZTE that make up a substantial part of India’s telecom sector, participate in the upcoming 5G trials. “Reliance Jio told the committee that they do not use any telecom equipment sourced from China,” said a person familiar with the matter. HT reached out to a representative from Jio but did not receive a response . “Reliance also said they’re fully equipped with the 5G technology.” said the first person,The person quoted above added that Jio was also asked if it shares data with internet giants Facebook and Google, investors in the nascent telecom start-up, as a contractual obligation. Jio denied that there was any data sharing or harmonization with the companies. The panel has already met Facebook and Google to flag its concerns in terms of data sharing and privacy. Data localisation is another key issue that has been flagged in the hearings. While Reliance Jio has made a push for setting up a data centre in India and ride-hailing company Ola has agreed with the same premise, people familiar with the matter said that global ride-hailing company Uber remained on the fence. “India produces the largest amount of data but never benefits from it,” said a second person familiar with the matter. “Uber started out as an aggregator of cabs and is now a transport company, we need some check and balances.”The person added that both the startups would respond in writing about whether they have Chinese investment and their data sharing policies. “How does the AI that they use determine surge pricing,” said the person mentioned above. “Is it gender specific; do they harness the phone battery data to assess desperation levels? How exactly does this happen?”The panel asked the three companies to share their AI models and source code. Reliance Jio and Ola were willing to comply, but Uber was hesitant, people familiar with the matter said. “It is only in emergency situations where the government needs to intervene where we need access to the code,” said the second person. “If rights of drivers and customers have to be enforced, the details would be needed.” The person added that non-personal data, if shared by the companies, could help the government make the streets more accessible and even control unforeseen situations like the pandemic. Non-personal data, however, has been a sore point with companies like Uber since the data is used to bolster revenue models and sharing it with the government would lead to substantial losses. Panel chair Meenakshi Lekhi said that the push was consistently for transparency and accountability. “We are just asking the questions that need to be asked,” Lekhi told HT. The panel is conducting hearings on the personal data protection bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliamentary-committee-on-data-protection-focuses-on-cracking-down-on-chinese-equipment/story-UeBmrZZ7vrOXJlK1gKJH2N.html
06-11-2020||India||Harvard study establishes bad air, Covid-19 mortality rate link||An increase of 1ug/m3 in average PM2.5 exposure raised the mortality rate of Covid-19 by roughly 11%, a group of Harvard University researchers have found, the latest in a series of studies that underscore the double whammy faced by people in polluted parts of the world during the pandemic.The latest study is by a team of researchers in Harvard University who carried out a statistical analysis of coronavirus disease mortality rates across the 3,089 counties in United States and compared it with the long –term exposure people in these regions had of ultra-fine PM2.5 particles. “We found that an increase of 1 ug/m3 in the long-term average PM2.5 s is associated with a statistically significant 11% increase in the county’s Covid-19 mortality rate,” said the authors in their report, published in Science Advances on Wednesday. The analysis takes into account average PM2.5 exposure between 2000 and 2016 and Covid-19 mortality up till June 18. The findings are significant for a country like India where people are exposed to the highest annual average concentrations of PM2.5 in the world. According to the State of Global Air 2020 report published in October, the average Indian was exposed to 83.2ug/m3 of PM2.5 in 2019. For the average American, this number was less than a tenth at 7.66. At 11am on Thursday, the average hourly PM2.5 concentration across the 34 pollution monitors in Delhi stood at 360ug/m3. India’s Capital is currently seeing a spike in Covid-19 cases. Air pollution causes a wide variety of health effects, some of the worst of which is due to the effects on an organ that Covid-19 too targets: the lungs. Some of these are shortened life expectancy, increased inflammation and tendency to develop clots, and greater susceptibility to breathing problems such as asthma, noted a separate research paper by researchers from University of Catania, Italy.The implication of increased air pollution on Covid-19 outcomes was first reported from Italy. “Our data show a significant relationship between mean PM 2.5 concentration during February 2020, one month before the beginning of the outbreak, and the number of Covid-19 cases per region (updated to March 31st), confirming how more polluted areas are the ones where the contagion is more widespread,” said the authors From the University of Catania in their August, 2020 update to their paper first published in April. “More significantly patients in polluted areas present with more severe forms of the disease requiring ICU. Mortality is two-fold higher than the other regions despite similar rates of ICU admission,” they added.This is now backed by the statistical analysis of the American counties and their Covid-19 outbreaks. The Harvard University researchers used a method known as regression analysis to zero-in on possible factors that raised chances of Covid-19 mortality. Exposure to PM2.5 appeared to be the most prominent. “We also found that population density, days since the first Covid-19 case was reported, median household income, percent of owner-occupied housing, percent of the adult population with less than high school education, age distribution, and percent of Black residents are important predictors of the Covid-19 mortality rate in the model,” they added.The authors, however, add that their analysis is limited by lack of access to “individual-level risk factors” such as age, race, and smoking status, which can have an impact on the Covid-19 mortality rate. But, they add, an ecological regression analysis could help point research into the direction of different biological factors that can be at play. “For example, it has been hypothesized that chronic exposure to PM2.5 causes alveolar angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE-2) receptor over expression and impairs host defenses. This could cause a more severe form of Covid-19 in ACE-2–depleted lungs, increasing the likelihood of poor outcomes, including death,” they said.At the least, the authors add, such research could also provide a “strong scientific argument” for revision of ambient air quality standards and other environmental policies in the midst of a pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/harvard-study-establishes-bad-air-covid-mortality-rate-link/story-MahKH8KDZbjIbDkNltDoJJ.html
06-11-2020||India||Fake job portals cheat 27,000 job-seekers, collect Rs 1.09 crore in one month||A job racket operating in the name of the Union health ministry cheated at least 27,000 applicants by collecting a registration fee totalling about Rs 1.09 crore in just about a month, the Delhi Police’s cyber cell said on Thursday after nabbing five suspects. Purely in terms of the number of identified victims, the police said that it was one of the biggest job frauds ever busted by the force. The police said since the masterminds legally operated a centre that conducted online recruitment examinations for government and private agencies, they had access to personal data of job-seekers to whom they sent targeted messages of job offers. In one month, the gang allegedly sent out 15 lakh SMSs with links to two fraudulent websites for registration for 13,000 vacancies, including posts such as accountants, data entry operators, nursing midwives and ambulance drivers, police said.“The websites were designed so convincingly that some news and job information portals believed these openings to be genuine. They ended up amplifying the news of these fake jobs,” said Anyesh Roy, deputy commissioner of police (cyber cell).Roy said the two fake websites operated by the gang to draw their victims were www.sajks.org and www.sajks.com. Both mentioned they were under the Ministry of health and family welfare. SAJKS stood for Swasthya Avm Jan Kalyan Sansthan. Neither of the two websites were functional anymore when HT tried to access them on Thursday. The crime came to notice mid last month when an applicant decided to approach Delhi Police with a complaint that he received no response after paying Rs 500 as registration fee. Since the registration fee ranged only between Rs 100 and 500, the fraudsters believed victims wouldn’t approach the police, said Roy. The police registered a case and began collecting digital footprints of the suspects and their money trail.The investigation revealed that a bank account was opened in Haryana’s Hisar district in the name of Swasthya Sanstan, a name consistent with the fake website. “Soon, we got to know that money being deposited into this account by job applicants was being withdrawn from ATMs every day. On Tuesday, we laid a trap at one such ATM in Hisar and caught one suspect red-handed while he was withdrawing the money,” Roy said. The role of that nabbed suspect, 27-year-old Amandeep Khetkari, was just to withdraw money on a daily basis and distribute it to members of the gang, said the officer. At Khetkari’s instance, four more men were arrested. According to police, the arrested men included two website designers, Sandeep and Joginder Singh, the bank account holder Surender Singh and the mastermind Ramdhari, 50.Delhi police have registered a case after the Delhi international airport operator filed a complaint about a fake website advertising about vacancies at the airport and asking applicants to pay Rs 1,000 as enrolment fee.. DCP (IGI ) Rajeev Ranjan said a case under various sections of the IPC and Information Technology Act was registered on a complaint filed by the chief legal office, Delhi airport. In its complaint on Monday, the airport operator said a lookalike of the GMR website was luring, duping and obtaining money from job seekers.“The fraudsters published fake advertisement pertaining to various job openings and job offer in GMR Group on their careers page with a provision for collecting Rs 1000 as application fee through online payment mode. A total 2,201 job vacancies are published in the fake website ..,” the complaint reads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/fake-job-portals-cheat-27-000-job-seekers-in-one-month/story-cwu7EPQRRwaJO4kO1k8BdK.html
06-11-2020||India||Gen Naravane to call on PM Oli today, as Nepal seeks to reinvigorate ties with India||The Chief of Army Staff Indian Army, General MM Naravane, will hold a meeting with KP Sharma Oli, the Nepal’s Prime Minister who also holds the defence portfolio. The meeting is expected to focus on defence-related issues.It is likely to take place around noon today. The development assumes significance in the wake of the fact that Naravane is the first high-ranking official to visit Nepal a year after the boundary dispute erupted between the two countries.According to people aware of the developments, General Naravane will go for a one-hour flight to Mount Everest and after returning from there, will visit the Nepal Army Staff College. His meeting with Oli will take place after that.If the meeting goes well, Naravane’s visit is likely to be followed by a visit from foreign secretary Harsh Shringla to Nepal later this month. India could also participate in the meeting of the Joint Technical Level Boundary Committee.The boundary dispute erupted after Kathmandu accused New Delhi of showing its part in a new map released in November last year. New Delhi had paused talks with the Himalayan nation’s communist government after its parliament cleared a new map in June this year that incorporates Indian territory near its border with China.Over the last few months, the two neighbours softened their posture and attempted to reboot ties. In September, PM Oli decided to stop distribution of next school textbooks that had been published with the country’s revised political map.Gen Naravane was, meanwhile, conferred the honorary rank of General of the Nepali Army by Nepal’s President Bidya Devi Bhandari on Thursday. He was honoured at a ceremony at the President’s official residence Shital Niwas in Kathmandu. General Naravane was also presented with a sword and scroll during the function.Nepal’s Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli, Chief of Army Staff Purna Chandra Thapa, Indian Ambassador to Nepal Vinay Mohan Kwatra and other Nepali and Indian officials were present at the function.General Naravane then held a meeting with Nepal’s President and a banquet was held in the Indian Army chief’s honour in the evening.General Naravane conveyed his gratitude for the honour bestowed upon him and also discussed measures to further enhance bilateral cooperation.India also gifted medical equipment including X-ray machines, computed radiography systems, ICU ventilators, video endoscopy units and anaesthesia machines for two field hospitals of the Nepali Army.Additional ventilators were also gifted to assist the Nepali Army in its fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gen-naravane-to-call-on-pm-oli-on-friday-as-nepal-to-reinvigorate-ties-with-india/story-g0a7ql6Gs9paGTje2uw3tJ.html
06-11-2020||India||Kamala Harris’s ancestral village in Tamil Nadu prays for her success||Democratic vice presidential nominee Kamala Harris who believes ‘everything is at stake’ in the American presidential election has strong support from her ancestral hamlet in a southern corner of Tamil Nadu. On Tuesday morning people from Harris’ maternal grandfather’s village in Tiruvarur district performed a special prayer for her and erected banners with her photos. The authorities of Dharmasastha Temple and local leaders also offered as annadhanam (free food for the poor) idli-sambhar. Senator Harris had said that idli-sambhar is her favorite south Indian dish which she relished during her childhood visits to Chennai with her mother Shyamala Gopalan who was born in the city. Harris particularly struck a chord with her roots when she called out to her ‘chithis’ (referring to a parent’s younger sister in Tamil) during her speech in August at the Democratic National Convention. The village has been celebrating by conducting poojas and erecting flex banners ever since Joe Biden announced Harris as his running mate. “We want her to win. Her achievements are a pride for India and particularly our village,” said Arulmozhi Sudhakar, a local village head of Thulasendhirapuram, Painganadu in Tiruvarur district. Harris’ grandfather PV Gopalan was born in this village and her family has been offering donations to the temple.In 2014, her aunt (Dr Sarala Gopalan, who lives in Chennai) donated Rs5,000 to the temple in the name of Kamala Harris. “Every 12 years we renovate the temple and seek donations,” temple in charge S V Ramanan told HT. The remote village came to limelight after Harris’ historic nomination to US national office (as first African-American woman and first person of Indian origin) was announced. If Harris wins, Ramanan hopes it would draw more attention from the local government to channelise funds and improve the conditions of the village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kamala-harris-s-ancestral-village-in-tamil-nadu-prays-for-her-victory/story-qjZ37GlRnQAWnuBhkx721O.html
06-11-2020||Today's||How Punjab’s farmer is fighting our battle as his own||Today, the world marches to the beat of an invisible army of economic policy-makers, backed by political and even military muscle, that tells us what to sell, buy, wear or eat; and it tells farmers, including those in Punjab, what he should grow, in what quantity and on what terms. India could so easily have escaped this economic enslavement of her own people. When the Congress government at the Centre on January 1, 1995, signed on the World Trade Organisation, I remember (former chief minister) Parkash Singh Badal saying in a choked voice, “They have signed the death warrant of our farmers.” Those words are coming hauntingly true today. The ongoing crisis arising out the three central Acts can be understood and fought only against this background. The government brought three ordinances before the cabinet as table agenda. When the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) representative in the government, Harsimrat Kaur Badal, perused the ordinances, she told them these would not be acceptable to farmers. She was assured since ordinances are merely temporary measures, her concerns about farmers will be addressed and the objectionable clauses removed. We took them at their word, and said so to the farmers. At my meetings with leaders of farmer organisations, I always offered to support them on any clause they wished to add to or delete from the Bills. They gave us their feedback and we took that feedback to the government and asked it to address their concerns. The Centre didn’t agree. We voted against the Bill, Harsimrat resigned and we quit the National Democratic Alliance to stand by the farmers. SAVE FARMERS FROM CORPORATE SHARKS The Centre needs to be stopped from handing our farmers’ destiny into the hands of national and multinational corporate sharks. The WTO has chosen agriculture as the number one economic area in the country to attack, usurp and finally eliminate. The gameplan is to make India completely dependent on rich nations through corporates. For this, the WTO has attacked farm subsidies, putting them into three baskets of green, orange and blue. The devil hides in the orange basket that contains subsidies which distort international trade by making products (say wheat) of a particular country (say India) cheaper in comparison with the same project in another country (say, the US). According to the WTO, “The worst subsidies are the minimum support price (MSP) and free power.” Do you remember an important leader in Punjab making free power such an evil issue sometime back? INDIRECT PATH TO END MSP, SUBSIDIES Here is something the Government of India is not telling people. It is committed to the WTO to remove all farm subsidies, including MSP. But a direct, frontal attack on the MSP is a political impossibility. Hence, the indirect path. You keep procurement at MSP a ritual but you neuter it by creating conditions under which MSP dies its own death. The central Acts target agriculture produce marketing committees (APMCs). When you not only allow purchases of farm produce outside mandis but also incentivise it through no taxation on the buyers, you lure sellers away from these APMCs, which will finally collapse under their own weight. Then there is contract farming that will eventually turn the farmer into a land-owning tenant at the mercy of the corporate houses. Capt Amarinder Singh was the author of this idea in Punjab, and the Congress in India. DECLARE PUNJAB A PRINCIPAL MARKET AREA Finally, the amendments in the Essential Commodities Act legalises something we have been brought up believing is not only a crime but a sin – hoarding with all its attendant evils. Under the given dispensation, the state government is the only entity that can still stop this disaster from happening. Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh must stop play-acting and get down to doing what he and his government need to, and can do. He must immediately declare the entire state of Punjab a principal market area. Since central laws do not apply in these principal market areas, this will mean that even corporate or private players will have to compete with the government in buying farmers’ produce. He will have to pay all taxes that a purchaser pays within the mandis now. Secondly, Capt Amarinder must acknowledge that his own APMC (amendment), 2017, is a replica of the central Acts, with cosmetic changes here and there. In any case, since all that the farmers want is to preserve the status quo ante, there is no reason why he should stubbornly refuse to reject those amendments. Our society at large must understand that the farmer is not fighting just his own battle. Like the soldier on our border, the farmer is fighting to save us from the advance of hostile economic forces. He is being magnanimous in fighting our battle as his. We must stand strongly by him. The writer is the Shiromani Akali Dal president and Ferozepur Lok Sabha MP||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/how-punjab-s-farmer-is-fighting-our-battle-as-his-own/story-GZDDUIeI4Bo4pv6FGIsBSL.html
06-11-2020||Editorials||Getting ready for Mr Biden | HT Editorial||The election of the 46th president of the United States is over, bar the final official result. While there remain a handful of states yet to finish their ballot tabulating, Democratic candidate Joe Biden requires only a single state among those where counting was still underway at the time of going to press, to win the magic number of electoral college votes. A lead in Pennsylvania on Friday gives him a clear edge but Mr Biden may find it hard to be able to claim a decisive mandate. The Democrats failed to recapture the Senate and suffered a net loss of seats in the House of Represe-ntatives. Donald Trump was able to eat into Democratic margins among the working class and even minorities. If Covid-19 had not struck and Mr Trump had been slightly less abrasive, a second term would have been quite likely. This election was all about him: Even those who voted for Mr Biden did so largely because he wasn’t Donald Trump.Mr Biden will take over a nation divided on a number of fronts, and be overwhelmingly absorbed in trying to heal the wounds evident in society. His administration wants to spend money at home to overcome the pandemic, lay out a green energy path, expand subsidised health care and revamp ailing infrastructure. Much of this will be designed to overcome the social inequities that led to the Trump phenomenon in the first place. But Mr Biden will shy away from the more radical demands of the Left-wing of his party, primarily breaking up tech monopolies and Wall Street’s financial conglomerates. He will be harassed from the Right by Mr Trump even as his party’s progressive wing will push him to move further Left, even as Mr Biden’s policies will be ideologically moderate.Mr Biden will have his own version of America First. Yes, he will reverse Mr Trump’s stance on immigration, security alliances and, most of all, the multilateral approach on climate. Punitive tariffs will be rolled back, in part because they are ineffective, but trade will be increasingly about reciprocity. The shifting of supply chains and tech coalition-building, both aimed at China, will continue. Middle Kingdom bashing is bipartisan, but there may be marked difference in tactics. Mr Bid-en’s team version of isolationism lies in the desire to commit less overseas and invest more on the home front. Beijing is unlikely to give him so much leeway. Mr Biden will be tested in the international realm — and having to decide whether home renovation is possible without neighbourhood watch duties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/getting-ready-for-mr-biden-ht-editorial/story-Kf6MKjg5VJHNYXUzA6VHdL.html
