09-11-2020||News||The robustness of the US federal set-up||Joe Biden is the 46th President of the United States of America (US) after an arduous and messy presidential election. The American election has spewed many suppositions such as the “victory of Trumpism” or the “lingering death of liberalism”, for pundits to debate intensely over the coming weeks.But one supposition seems beyond debate — India, the world’s largest democracy, runs elections better than the US, the world’s oldest democracy.Indian national elections appear much more efficient than the American national elections. In India, votes are counted fast and results are announced by the end of counting day. Disputes over counting are few and rare. Never does an incumbent head refuse to vacate office after an electoral loss, at least not yet.In contrast, the world has witnessed the chaos and disarray in the counting process of the US presidential election. It thus seems tempting for Indian commentators to offer some lessons to “big brother” and to export India’s more efficient election process to the US. But the seeming mess in the US’s electoral process is intentional and a small price to pay for a much larger good — federalism.To elect their president in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic, an American voter in the state of Pennsylvania could vote by mail but a voter in the state of Texas needed an excuse beyond Covid-19 to vote by mail. A voter in the state of New York made a choice between Donald Trump or Joe Biden, but a voter in neighbouring Maine ranked both the candidates in their order of preference. When the voting process to elect the president is uniquely different across each of the 50 states of the US, then inexorably, the counting process will be complex too.Electing a president is arguably the most significant event for American democracy. Yet, there is no one set of national rules for electing the president. Each state has the powers to frame its own rules. Fifty different rules are more complex to administer than one set of rules. Such extreme decentralisation with 50 state election commissions running an election for the US president is bound to be more inefficient than one centralised election commission with a uniform set of rules for all.The US’s intensely federal structure and its inevitable inefficiencies are a deliberate design and not an accident. A heavily decentralised model with powers handed down to state and local governments has served the US extraordinarily well. When states frame their own rules for governance and compete with each other, the larger nation benefits. For example, in the current election, one state — Maine — decided that the current electoral system of plurality voting is obsolete and chose the rank choice voting system for all elections held in their state. If it works well, it is likely that the other states may adopt it too.Had there been one set of standard national electoral rules for all states, such a natural experiment would not be possible. Decentralisation enables a competitive marketplace among states and local governments that foster new ideas and innovation. Further, when the spectre of institutional capture looms large across many democracies currently, capturing one central institution is much easier than the ability to capture many institutions at the state level.The staunch decentralisation and devolution of powers in the country’s system is perhaps a critical factor in the US’s overall success as a nation, that is much under-appreciated and recognised. Inefficiency is a small price to pay for much larger and more sustainable benefits.In contrast, India is heavily centralised with a trend towards greater centralisation in recent years. The Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime, supported by both national parties, is one glaring recent example of how we as a nation sacrificed federalism at the altar of economic efficiency. Let us imagine a situation where the American company, Apple, wants to make a big investment in India. It is better for various states such as Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh to compete with each other to attract Apple to their state than for a prime minister or a Union Cabinet minister to decide where Apple should invest. States can compete only when they have powers to frame their own rules over taxation, land, labour, environment and other areas. India’s states have been slowly stripped of most of their powers, including the basic right of taxation, which is the exact opposite of the US’s federal structure.Some argue that it is wrong to compare India’s federal structure with the US’s where each state has sovereign rights with its own constitution, flag and boundary. It is a valid argument but has surpassed its validity period. India’s Constitution-drafters were right at that time to be apprehensive of secessionist tendencies of different states given India’s extreme diversity and hence adopted the approach of a strong Centre with limited powers to states. Seven decades later, the time has come for India to devolve most powers to states and enable a more vibrant and competitive federalism environment, not centralise even more in the garb of “one nation one policy” and efficiency.The fleeting chaos over the presidential elections will pass and the US will soon have a new President. But the underlying federal structure that has served the country admirably will remain steadfast, regardless of this chaotic experience. Indian commentators may well be justified to want to export our election process to the US. It is of greater importance that India imports ideas of genuine devolution and decentralisation from the US.Praveen Chakravarty is a political economist and a senior office-bearer of the CongressThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-robustness-of-the-us-federal-set-up/story-8QqOCv529TwTVOQIKdN9GO.html
09-11-2020||News||US: The end of a corrosive chapter||When Democratic challenger and former Vice-President Joe Biden emerged victorious in the race for the presidency, one could almost hear the hushed sounds of tens of millions of Americans collectively exhaling. While expressions of joy would come later, it was relief — not elation — that struck many Americans first. Relief that a protracted ballot counting process had turned in a decisive manner. Relief that an interminable campaign had reached its finale. But, above all, relief that a fog of perpetual exhaustion might finally lift.The past four years have challenged American democracy. While the country’s political institutions have long shown signs of disrepair, the Donald Trump presidency exposed their abject decay. The president governed as if checks and balances were a nuisance, rather than a necessity. The career bureaucracy was vilified — its professional ranks hollowed out. The Senate — one of the world’s most revered deliberative bodies — struggled to muster a veneer of legislative accountability. And, even as the Biden team executes plans for a transition, many Americans are unsure whether the incumbent will willingly exit centre-stage.As draining as the attack on institutions has been, it has paled in comparison to the assault on democratic norms. Perhaps the biggest lesson of the Trump era is the revelation that institutions are only as sound as the social practices that undergird them. The president weaponised social media to target political opponents, civil society, and the media. From his obscured income tax returns to his questionable business dealings, the president embodied conflicts of interest. Even on questions of foreign policy, presidential whim — rather than any coherent policy process — often dictated the United States (US)’s posture towards friends and foes alike.For the roughly 75 million Americans who backed Biden, the desire to turn the page is palpable. Women, ethnic and racial minorities, and urban and suburban dwellers turned out in historic numbers to put an end to the Trump presidency. This is no small matter: Trump is the first incumbent president to lose his re-election bid in a quarter century.But this victory was not preordained. The so-called blue wave of disenchanted, frustrated Democrats was met by a corresponding red surge of passionate Trump supporters who basked in the President’s derision for political correctness and his dogged efforts to codify conservative principles into law and regulation. Despite the fact that Biden garnered five million more votes than Trump, more than 70 million Americans stood solidly behind Trump and the margins in several battleground states were razor-thin. Democrats longed for an unambiguous repudiation of Trumpism; what they got instead was a mild rebuke.To a certain extent, the post-election bliss Democrats are experiencing is muted — for three reasons. First, driven by optimistic polls, expectations among rank-and-file Democrats ran sky-high — they expected to win the White House, regain Senate control, and expand their ranks in the House. The latter two did not materialise, although it’s possible that Democrats could still wrangle control of the Senate if two run-off elections in the state of Georgia go their way.Second, the Democrats are a house divided. In the past week, social media has been brimming with recriminations emanating from the progressive Left as well as the moderate Centre, each blaming the other for a disappointing showing in down-ballot races. In the wake of a massive victory at the presidential level, conversations in Democratic circles resemble a circular firing squad rather than a jubilant victory lap.But there is a third factor giving Democrats pause: Biden will assume the presidency at a time when America is encumbered by three simultaneous crises. A brutal second wave of the coronavirus pandemic has reared its unwelcome head, racking up more than 100,000 cases and 1,000 deaths per day. The economy, while showing tentative signs of recovery, cannot fire on all cylinders as long as the pandemic rages unabated. But there is a third crisis — over race relations — that came to a boil this summer and is simmering just below the surface, and which Biden and Kamala Harris will be under tremendous pressure to address expeditiously.What does this mean for India? While Biden will want to signal the US’s return as a responsible global stakeholder, the incoming administration will initially be consumed by domestic affairs. In the medium-term, the outlook for India is bright — expect Biden to carry forward many of the cooperative policies that the Obama administration pursued, on subjects from the climate crisis to defence collaboration. Economic irritants won’t disappear overnight, but a less hostile outlook on immigration and trade deficits will help. Many in Delhi worry that a Biden administration will apply greater scrutiny to issues like civil liberties and human rights. While such talk is overblown — China’s behaviour has all but assured that — it is curious that many seem to care more about the US’s attitude toward democratic freedoms than the health of those freedoms to begin with. In any case, America’s democratic deficits are plentiful — giving Indians ample fodder with which to push back.With this election, the US closes a corrosive chapter in its political history but under a cloud of uncertainty over its ability to author a new, more constructive one. If it can muster the political will to do so, this can only redound to India’s benefit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/us-the-end-of-a-corrosive-chapter/story-Kzw3F8rb0LyYNL4XkjYspI.html
09-11-2020||News||In Bihar, the local has indeed turned vocal||Ending his campaign for the Bihar assembly polls, chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar said that this is his last election. But irrespective of whether it is, it has definitely been his toughest one in the past decade-and-a-half as exit polls now confirm. Why is it that Kumar is today struggling in a state that got rid of the stench of caste-wars, massacres and lawlessness 15 years ago by voting for him in 2005 and reposing faith in him again in 2010 and 2015?Nitish Kumar gave Bihar a dream run from 2005 to 2010. The nightmares of kidnapping and extortion were overnight buried with vikas (development) that was fuelled by good governance. Kumar consolidated, aided in no small measure by a somewhat embedded media, showcasing his mesmeric chemistry with people who showered love on him for gifts of new roads, growing power supply and peace.Kumar transformed Bihar, with roads, electricity, school buildings and bicycles to schoolgirls. He also did bring in jobs. The police forces were augmented. Women battalions and constabulary were raised. Bihar’s feudal misogyny caved in as families now took pride in their betis (daughters). However, beneath the altar of his development model, the youth were desperately searching for employment.There is, in some ways, a parallel with the 2011 election in West Bengal, which saw the end of Left rule — and where the limited shelf-life of its revolutionary land reforms, Operation Barga, had become clear. In three decades, descendants of beneficiaries had moved out for employment. Land holdings couldn’t sustain multiplying families anymore. And the Left’s efforts at industrialisation were politically mismanaged. Bihar — in the Lalu Prasad-Rabri Devi era and before — had suffered land and caste wars. The Communist Party of India-Marxist Leninist and the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), now partners, had been at diametrically opposite ends. Kumar succeeded in ensuring that peace returned to the villages. But that was not enough.Migration for education, jobs and a better life has been a steady Bihari phenomenon. And that is fundamentally because the political economy in the state, just like in West Bengal, is broken. There has been a fragmentation of land — and agriculture is neither seen as aspirational nor deemed to be a pragmatic option. Manufacturing and services are limited. Those with resources invest in the education of their children with the sole objective of sending them out of Bihar for professional advancement. Those without resources make desperate journeys to cities for livelihood.It goes to the media’s credit that the plight of Biharis in their escape home during the lockdown was captured. “It is better to die at home” became a soulful anthem that soon after stirred the air with cries for jobs at home. A good many returnees went back, many taken by contractors by air or road, but many others stayed behind, retrenched. Many among them are the educated whose aspirations appear to be dying young. When the polls were announced, Bihar’s young voters began asserting themselves — the local had, indeed, became vocal.While the blame for migration for education and jobs cannot be put solely at Kumar’s doorstep, given that citizens generously credited him with the earlier turnaround, it is but inevitable that he will also face the ire of his Naya Bihar’s unmet aspirations. It did not help that from the master of managing political extremes, Kumar came to be perceived as a conjurer of survival politics.The RJD’s Tejashwi Yadav leveraged the perception of this governance deficit and political vacillation. But he was not the only campaign phenomenon in Bihar. It was “Bihar ke do ladke” — Bihar’s two boys, the other being the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP)’s Chirag Paswan. Both drew frenzied crowds. While Yadav promised jobs, Paswan promised to probe corruption, even jail for Kumar if proven guilty. It is the first time anyone was attacking Nitish personally on corruption, even though corruption in the ranks and an arrogant babudom remain Bihar’s worst kept secret. The storm against Kumar from two young men threaten not only to dwarf the CM but also inflict collateral damage on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the bargain, despite Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi‘s popularity. Aware of this challenge, the PM himself told Biharis that he needed Kumar for Bihar’s development.The Opposition has also carefully, and smartly, targeted government servants. Among them are 3,74,000 contract teachers, who earn a fraction of what regular teachers get, whose numbers have dwindled to 65,000. Yadav promised themequal pay for equal work. In addition, he also promised to double the honorarium of aanganwaadi sevikas, tola sevaks, jeevika didis and ASHA workers in an effort to wean the women vote.For a Nitish Kumar who is on the back foot, survival hinges on the Modi magic. While his re-election in 2010 and 2015 was attributed to the gender vote, the 2020 poll is turning to be a generational vote. The results will reveal young Bihar’s mind on November 10. It will also reveal whether Nitish Kumar has swum ashore with the BJP — or the latter has sunk with Nitish Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/in-bihar-the-local-has-indeed-turned-vocal/story-ivONIunShIndG4F8nkLkzJ.html
09-11-2020||News||The Biden presidency and India-US ties||Hope has been rekindled in the participatory democratic process as the American voter has definitively chosen the Democratic candidate and former United States (US) Vice-President (VP) Joe Biden as the 46th President along with Senator Kamala Harris as his running mate. The latter’s victory is particularly poignant for its many resonances — this is the first time that a woman, a person of colour, and an Indian-American will occupy the office of the vice-presidency. While it seems that Donald Trump will use every legal option to delay and defy the verdict of the Electoral College, the US is preparing for a new occupant in the White House on January 20.President-elect Biden is no stranger to India and played a valuable role as a legislator in the rapprochement over the nuclear issue when it was being steered by the George W Bush-Manmohan Singh combine. He is familiar with the essential continuity in the India-US bilateral relationship. Hence the road map for the next four years with Biden at the helm will, in all likelihood, strengthen ties in those sectors where progress was made (defence cooperation) on the Trump watch and repair the damage done in areas such as trade where restoring the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) would enable Indian exports.Under Trump, the India-US bilateral track retained the structural orientation that had been envisioned in the Bill Clinton-Atal Bihari Vajpayee years. It is instructive to recall the Biden approach to Indian sensitivities about how to frame the relationship with the US, for Delhi is reluctant to go down the path of a formal alliance, for good reason. In his July 2013 visit to India, the then Vice-President Biden noted: “There is no contradiction between strategic autonomy and a strategic partnership. Global powers are capable of both.”The current collective global challenge is dominated by the Covid-19 pandemic and the figures are stark. The US and India lead the list in the total number of cases, and the scale of the economic-fiscal haemorrhaging is yet to be estimated accurately. The pandemic is one of the many critical global challenges where the US leadership would have been desirable, and this is where the Biden-Trump contrast is striking. The climate crisis and maritime pollution are huge (as Trump would put it) and some experts aver that the world has crossed the tipping point. It is irrefutable that sustained collective action based on credible scientific data and an equitable sharing of the mitigation effort is the way ahead but this is exactly what President Trump rejected.The Biden presidency offers the hope that the US commitment to multilateralism will be back on track and here there are many areas where Delhi could be a relevant stakeholder in global load-sharing. It is encouraging to note that in his statements, Biden has promised to bring the US back into the World Health Organization (WHO)’s fold and focused on the need to give this challenge the highest policy priority in relation to Covid-19.For all the opprobrium that the Trump presidency has elicited, his unpredictable China policy merits scrutiny from both the US and Indian perspective. Trump forced the US establishment and the world at large to acknowledge the predatory nature of China’s global aspirations and its corrosive impact. How this policy shift towards Beijing will unfold in the Biden years will be extremely relevant for the global strategic order and its regional/Asian implications will be even more acute for Delhi.Post-Galwan, the China challenge looms large for India and the recent statement by Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat is pertinent. In relation to the current military stand-off in Ladakh, General Rawat asserted: “Our posturing is unambiguous. We will not accept any shifting of the LAC. In the overall security calculus, border confrontations, transgressions, unprovoked tactical military actions spiralling into a larger conflict therefore cannot be discounted.”How the Biden team will frame the China challenge to Indian sovereignty in relation to abiding US interest will be a critical indicator for the Narendra Modi government in mediating the Delhi-Beijing relationship. The more recent defence cooperation traction accorded to the bilateral track, by way of Delhi signing the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement and inviting Australia to be part of the Malabar naval exercises, is illustrative of the potential that needs to be explored.There are many areas/sectors in the multilateral basket relevant to India and paradoxically, China, that a Biden presidency could enable if it remains committed to a pragmatic and equitable global partnership. The post-Covid-19 era is yet to arrive and the immediate road ahead for the US President-elect will be to identify policy priorities and the manner in which they will be pursued. And in engaging with a new team in the White House, Delhi will benefit in prioritising the hi-tech sector namely core ICT (computing communications) and AI (artificial intelligence) for the long term. To maximise the possibilities of the “strategic partnership” that Biden referred to, India must be astute and overcome an inherent difidence and institutional prickliness, as it defines its own modest relevance in a partnership that was estranged till 2005.C Uday Bhaskar is director, Society for Policy Studies The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-biden-presidency-and-india-us-ties/story-IGqQRRvHMPX7cw1Av1T9qJ.html
09-11-2020||Noida||Daylight robbery at Ghaziabad’s Chopla market: Armed man loots ₹50,000 from jewellery shop||Ghaziabad: In a daylight robbery at a busy market in the district, an armed man robbed a jeweller of ₹50,000 cash inside his shop on Monday afternoon. The police said that the incident was captured in a CCTV camera and they have formed teams to trace the masked suspect. The incident took place in the busy market at Chopla which houses about 15-20 big jewellery shops and other business establishments.According to Anil Garg, the shop owner, the robber barged into the shop around 12.30pm while two women customers were making purchases. Garg said that the robber then pointed a gun at his son, Bharat, who was at the cash counter. “The two women gave ₹50,000 to my son for the jewellery items they had purchased. Suddenly, a masked man of around 30 years in age barged in and pulled out a pistol which he pointed towards my son. Holding him at gunpoint, the robber took the money from the cash counter and ran out with the gun in his hand,” Garg said. He added that the entire incident took place in just about 15-30 seconds and was also captured in a CCTV camera installed at his shop. “After the robber ran out, we alerted our staff and also the staff of our other shop nearby. But the man disappeared in the crowd, threatening visitors not to come near him. He had come with a bag on his shoulders which fell down when he fled. It contained clothes and we handed it to the police. The police also took away the recording device of the CCTV,” the shop owner said. According to Garg, other shop owners said that the gunman was taking rounds of different shops and probably trying to find a suitable one for loot. “He must have seen the women customers handing over money to my son and then he barged inside and looted the cash,” Garg added. The police said that they have received a complaint from the jeweller and have registered an FIR at Kotwali police station. “We have registered a case of robbery and several teams have been formed to track the suspect. The bag which he left behind contained daily wear clothes. We are investigating the matter and checking the CCTV footage to get clues,” said Abhay Kumar Mishra, circle officer (city 1).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/daylight-robbery-at-ghaziabad-s-chopla-market-armed-man-loots-50-000-from-jewellery-shop/story-50kmcDYZKig98WevrJ0AuJ.html
09-11-2020||Noida||Gautam Budh Nagar admin to survey all 322 urban villages for property titles||NOIDA: The Uttar Pradesh government has asked the Gautam Budh Nagar district administration to give property ownership cards to beneficiaries in all 322 urban villages across the district, including Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway areas, under the centre’s Survey of Villages and Mapping with Improvised Technology in Village Areas (Svamitva) scheme.Earlier, the administration had only decided to survey houses in villages located outside the notified zone; this means the areas which are not identified for planned development. However, in a fresh order, the state government has directed the admin to survey all villages across the district and provide the benefits of the scheme to each villager.“We have instructions from the state government that we need to provide the land title to each house owner in all 322 urban villages located in Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway. We have started the survey in Dadri and we are likely to carry out the survey in each urban village in Sadar Tehsil and Noida city area,” said Diwakar Singh, additional district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar.The state government has decided that this scheme which empowers farmers will be executed at the ground level in Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway areas, where the UP Industrial Development Act 1976 is in effect in most of the villages, officials said. The term ‘notified villages’ means the industrial authority of the area takes care of civic amenities and handles the developmental works in such villages. Also, these villages are not governed under the panchayat system.However, villages which are not notified are governed by the panchayat department, officials said.“As per directions of the state government, the scheme will cover each village, whether it is notified or not notified. We will carry out surveys in all villages at the earliest. We are measuring the size of each house and checking land records to finish the required procedure to give a property title,” said Singh, who is heading the survey work of this scheme.“We have been demanding unique property titles to houses located in urban areas so that farmers are empowered, since many years. But the state government and the admin is yet to do the needful. We hope that now the state government will finish the survey soon and provide a card to each village in urban villages which are in dire need of this,” said Raghuraj Singh of Kisan Sangharsh Samiti.If the Svamitva scheme is implemented, house owners in Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway areas will be able to take loans from banks and disputes related with property in urban villages may be reduced, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gautam-budh-nagar-admin-to-survey-all-322-urban-villages-for-property-titles/story-7fVyXfQmPdutIyQTqLAc7K.html
09-11-2020||Noida||Environmentalists want firecracker ban extended as traders in Noida and Ghaziabad count losses||Ghaziabad: Environmentalists on Monday welcomed the “total ban” on the sale or bursting of firecrackers by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) across the National Capital Region (NCR) till the end of November, and called for extending it further to prevent rise in pollution levels in the future.The ban was put in place from the midnight of November 9 till the midnight of November 30. “There will be a total ban against sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers in NCR from the midnight of November, 9 - 10, 2020 to the midnight of November 30 - December 1, 2020, to be reviewed thereafter,” the tribunal said in its order on November 9. On Monday when the NGT passed its order, Ghaziabad, Greater Noida and Noida suffered under “severe” category pollution, which has been in place for five consecutive days. Environmentalists said that the move is a step forward to prevent a further rise in pollution otherwise it would adversely affect the health of people and also of those affected by Covid-19. “The ban will help check any further rise in pollution. Otherwise, people suffer after-effects of firecrackers each year. The NGT directions have been made considering the present situation,” said Sushil Raghav, a city-based environmentalist. Akash Vashishtha, another city-based environmentalist and a lawyer, said that authorities have basically failed to check a rise in pollution levels. “There has to be some accountability of officials as this is the fifth successive year when the NCR is facing “severe” pollution. Even before Diwali this year, the levels have already reached the higher end of the “severe” category. If there is a ban on fire-crackers, it should be extended up to the end of February. And the other pollution sources must also be targeted,” he said. Meanwhile, the trader community expressed dismay, saying that they are staring at losses during the Diwali festival. Earlier in October 2018, the Supreme Court had said that people on Diwali, nationwide, will get two hours – 8 to 10pm – to burst crackers on Diwali and only gave permission for “green and improved” fireworks in NCR. “Generally, a retailer dealing in firecrackers books orders of about Rs 4 to 5 lakh beforehand. With the ban, what will the traders do? Are firecrackers the only source of pollution? Instead of banning diesel-run vehicles or DG-sets and stubble burning, the authorities have been focussing on ban on fireworks. The traders have been at the receiving end for the past four years now,” said Ashutosh Gupta, president of Kavi Nagar firecrackers’ retailers association in Ghaziabad. “It is not clear whether the October 2018 orders of the Supreme Court stands at present or not? Further, the ban has come very close to Diwali, when we have already booked our orders and will have to pay up even if there is no sale,” he added. SK Jain, president of the Sector 18 Noida market association, said the sudden ban would cost heavy to traders. “It involves a 2-3 month process to manufacture firecrackers which reach end users during Diwali. Some workers make firecrackers which are then sent to distributors. The distributors then sell them to retailers and vendors, who apply for licences and then sell them to people. This is a time taking process. The NGT should have ordered the ban at least two months in advance so that traders need not have invested money in firecrackers,” he said.Asif Ali, a former fireworks manufacturer at Ghaziabad’s fireworks hub of Farrukhnagar, said that thousands of workers, traders and others have lost their livelihood in the past three to four years. “I have started selling construction materials. There were thousands of workers who were engaged in Farrukhnagar but they have no source of income now. Some are working at dhabas or some work as daily wagers,” he said. “There was a lot of hue and cry about green crackers. It seems all initiatives have failed considering there is already high pollution before Diwali. Some manufacturers from our area also approached for licences of green crackers in hope to revive their business, but now there’s no relief for them,” he added. The administration officials said that they are waiting for further directions from state officials. “The order has been given by the tribunal and we are also waiting for directions from the state officials. For now, we are not issuing any licenses for fire-crackers,” said Shailendra Singh, additional district magistrate (city).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/environmentalists-want-firecracker-ban-extended-as-traders-in-noida-and-ghaziabad-count-losses/story-BIKvvqV1F7tSHVvEbQnOeI.html
09-11-2020||Noida||Three arrested in Noida with firecrackers as NGT bans their sale||Noida: The police on Monday arrested three persons in two separate cases with a huge cache of illegal firecrackers, after the National Green Tribunal (NGT) imposed a blanket ban on the sale, purchase and use of firecrackers across the National Capital Region (NCR) from the midnight of November 9 up to November 30. The Noida police also cancelled its earlier plan of providing licences to vendors to sell green firecrackers.Love Kumar, additional commissioner of police of law and order, Gautam Budh Nagar, said that the police will ensure enforcement of the NGT order in letter and spirit. “Earlier the police had planned to issue licences to vendors. However, this stands cancelled after the NGT order. We have sensitised police officials to act if they find any sale or purchase of fire crackers in Gautam Budh Nagar,” he said.Noida police had received 11 applications from interested vendors between November 4 and 8. The police had planned to issue a licence for sale of crackers for three days – from November 11 to 13 2 in the Knowledge Park playground in Greater Noida.The NGT has allowed only green crackers – considered to be less polluting – to be sold in cities and towns where air quality is “moderate” and restricted the timing of use to two hours – between 8 and 10 pm. On Monday, Noida recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 477, while Greater Noida recorded the same at 478, both in “severe” category, as per data by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).On Monday, the Sector 49 police arrested two suspects identified as Shekhar Chauhan and Jitu Chauhan, both residents of Barola village, and allegedly recovered illegal firecrackers in four plastic bags. Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, Zone 1, said the seized firecrackers are estimated to be worth Rs 80,000. “The suspects had bought these firecrackers and they were planning to sell them to locals. A police team conducted a search and arrested them from their residence,” Singh said. A case has been registered against them under Section 9-B of the Explosive Substances Act. In the second case, the Sector 39 police arrested Govind Kumar, a resident of Sadarpur, Sector 39, allegedly with illegal firecrackers. “All three suspects were produced in court and sent to jail. The NGT has passed an order and we will be on the lookout for anyone trying to either sell or burst firecrackers. Due legal action will be taken against all offenders,” the additional DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/three-arrested-in-noida-with-firecrackers-as-ngt-bans-their-sale/story-t0lcDKlvw5LRco2qmGEsiM.html
09-11-2020||Noida||Air quality worst in three years in Noida, Ghaziabad; AQI in ‘severe’ zone for fifth day in a row||Ghaziabad: The average air quality index (AQI) of Noida, Ghaziabad and Greater Noida from October 1 to November 9 this year has surpassed that of 2018 and 2019 of the same period, an analysis of data from the Central Pollution control Board (CPCB) shows. Meanwhile, the three cities recorded “severe” category air quality for the fifth consecutive day on Monday, with Monday’s index the highest spike in the past five days.The figures of the CPCB state that AQI levels for Ghaziabad, Greater Noida and Noida stood at 482, 478 and 477, respectively, on the higher side of the “severe” category. With the spike in pollution levels pre-Diwali, this year’s average AQI from October 1 to November 9 stood at 311, 313 and 295 for Ghaziabad, Greater Noida and Noida, respectively.In comparison, Ghaziabad, Greater Noida and Noida recorded an average AQI of 291, 282 and 279, respectively, during the same period in 2019, while the same in 2018 was 281, 293 and 288, respectively.“Since the AQI levels have been in the “severe” category for the past five days, the district administration has directed agencies to halt operations of hot-mix plants. They have been told to resume operations once pollution levels decline. Further, measures such as water sprinkling, use of anti-smog guns and mechanical road sweeping have been intensified,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (CPCB).An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe.” Experts said the spike in pollution levels is due to slow wind speed on Monday.“The wind speed on Monday was averaging about three to four kmph, which is not favourable for dispersal of trapped pollutants. Also, the wind direction has been north-westerly, which has been bringing in the aftermath of stubble-burning. Going by the forecast, it is likely that the NCR will have no rains up to November 14,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, Delhi.The IMD officials had said that the wind direction will change to easterly around November 10 or 11, after which there will be a period of one or two days of stagnation of wind, which is likely to raise pollution levels again.The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), a private weather forecasting agency, said in a bulletin Monday that the Delhi region faces low dispersion, along with high fire-related intrusion, which has led to the accumulation of pollutants near the surface. “No quick recovery is expected unless a drastic reduction in fire counts takes place... The Safar synergised that stubble fire counts over Punjab, Haryana, UP, Uttarakhand and neighbouring areas have marginally reduced since last reported but still very high and stood at 3,257 yesterday,” it said in its bulletin for 24 hours released Monday.The Safar forecast added that the share of stubble burning in PM2.5 levels in Delhi’s air is estimated as 38% for Monday. “In terms of magnitude with reference to current levels of PM2.5 in micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m3), this percentage is translated to be one of the highest mass loadings (140µg/m3) in the season,” it added.According to the Consortium for Research on Agro-ecosystem Monitoring and Modelling from Space (Creams) Laboratory, the total instances of crop residue burning from October 1 to November 8 stood at a total of 69,250 this year, while the same was 48,196 in last year and 53,373 in 2018 during the same period, across the three states of Punjab, Haryana and UP. Of the total counts during the same period in 2020, 2019 and 2018, Punjab’s share stood at 63,122, 40,859 and 43,009, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/air-quality-worst-in-three-years-in-noida-ghaziabad-aqi-in-severe-zone-for-fifth-day-in-a-row/story-xEYsCHFJYJTt0NGPi1gfMP.html
09-11-2020||Mumbai||After a month, three tremors rock Dahanu near Mumbai||After nearly a month, three mild tremors, with two measuring 3.4 and the third at 3.1 on the Richter scale, were reported in Dahanu on Monday. Dundhalwadi was the epicentre of the tremor. No casualties were reported, said Vivekanand Kadam, chief of disaster response team, Palghar. A revenue department team will survey the tremor-hit areas on Tuesday, said Rahul Sarang, Dahanu tehsildar. The tremor was also recorded by the National Centre for Seismology, Noida. Previously, a tremor measuring 3.5 on Richter scale was reported on October 6 in Dahanu. Earlier, on September 22, three tremors were recorded within a span of three hours. The first earthquake of 3.5 magnitude was felt at 2.50am, the second was felt at 4.12am and measured 2.1 on the Richter scale and the third quake of magnitude 2 was recorded at 5.49am. In September, Palghar district officials had visited villages and conducted awareness programmes to alleviate fears among tribal villagers who have been sleeping in the open in view of the frequent tremors. The government has provided tents set up in big open spaces in Dahanu and Talasari villages for the locals to take refuge in during the tremors. Mock drills are also to be carried out in these villages to make people aware of the dos and don’ts in case of such natural incidents. Since November 2018, villages around Dhundalwadi and other areas of Dahanu have been experiencing mild tremors at regular intervals, leading to fear in the minds of locals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/after-a-month-three-tremors-rock-dahanu-near-mumbai/story-7TLPkbvG6R7qVrrYByZL0J.html
09-11-2020||Mumbai||Forest officer, clerk held for accepting ₹2-lakh bribe in Vasai near Mumbai||Dilip Tonde, range forest officer (RFO) of Tungareshwar Wildlife Sanctuary in Vasai was caught red-handed while allegedly accepting ₹2 lakh bribe on Monday. He had allegedly demanded ₹10 lakh bribe and the ₹2 lakh was the first instalment, said an officer of the anti-corruption bureau (ACB), Thane.According to the complainant, Tonde was demanding the bribe to not file cases against him. Tonde and his clerk Anant Sonawane were apprehended from his Vasai office. The duo have been booked under the Prevention of Corruption Act and will be produced before the ACB court, Thane on Tuesday.In 2019, Tonde was in the news for using his service revolver to scare tribal workers protesting non-payment of wages. Wada police had registered a case in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/forest-officer-clerk-held-for-accepting-2-lakh-bribe-in-vasai-near-mumbai/story-R2j6vy4jzg9TBH571MtkwL.html
09-11-2020||Mumbai||BMC announces complete water cut in parts of Mumbai for Wednesday||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has announced complete water cut in seven administrative wards on Wednesday. The wards include A ward (Fort), B ward (Dongri), E ward (Byculla), F South ward (Sewri), F North ward (Wadala), M East ward (Mankhurd) and M West ward (Chembur). Water supply will be discontinued from 10am to 8pm on Wednesday and water pressure will be low on Thursday in these wards.The civic body is carrying out repair work of a leakage in 1,800mm water main. A senior civic official said, “The water pressure will be low on the next day (Thursday) as well. Citizens should ensure that they save water and use only what is required.” A press statement by BMC issued regarding the same also states that citizens should drink boiled or filtered water on both these days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-announces-complete-water-cut-in-parts-of-mumbai-for-wednesday/story-3XW0rRAmlPXpniCACRt4SI.html
09-11-2020||Mumbai||Patient found dead: Mumbai civic body removes superintendent of Sewri TB Hospital||Days after the decomposed body of a tuberculosis (TB) patient with Covid-19 infection was recovered from a toilet at Sewri TB Hospital, the medical superintendent of the hospital has been removed from his post. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has also initiated inquiry into more than 20 staffers including nurses and doctors from the hospital.Suryabhan Yadav, 27, was found dead in a toilet at the hospital, 14 days after he went “missing”. After receiving complaints of foul smell at the toilet, the administration opened the door and found the decomposed body on October 25. Following this, BMC called for a high-level inquiry into the negligence of the hospital. The report of the inquiry was submitted on Monday. “It has been decided to remove the current medical superintendent (Dr Lalit Anande) from his post. He hasn’t been held responsible, but considering he holds the main position, we have to take a stern step against him to stop such incidents in the future,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner. Despite repeated attempts, Dr Anande didn’t respond to HT’s calls or messages.In addition, a departmental inquiry has been initiated against 12-13 hospital staff including nurses and ward boys for their negligence. “We have also summoned around seven-eight paramedics from the hospital, which also includes doctors who were responsible for the Covid-19 wards,” said Kakani. As per the information procured from Sewri TB Hospital, Yadav was admitted at the hospital on September 30 after being diagnosed with Covid-19. However, he didn’t give his address during admission. It is suspected that he collapsed and died in the bathroom of the isolation ward on October 4 as he was very weak. To address issues like this, the BMC commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal had, in July, instructed hospitals to keep a bedpan for every patient so that they don’t have to go to the bathroom at night. Hospitals were also instructed to monitor patients through video surveillance. Sewri TB Hospital has been found to have violated all these rules to ensure safety of TB patients. “This is not the first instance where a TB patient has collapsed at a bathroom in the hospital. The staffers don’t even help patients to the bathroom and let them go alone. In the past, we had made several complaints but the staff union is too strong. Every time BMC tried to take action against them, they would threaten the administration,” said Ramesh Kumar, a local TB activist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/patient-found-dead-mumbai-civic-body-removes-superintendent-of-sewri-tb-hospital/story-XxPQSawvYcQ3AOzjKotILO.html
09-11-2020||Chandigarh||Centenary celebrations: Punjab Engineering College declares winners of distinguished alumni awards||Punjab Engineering College (PEC) Chandigarh, on Monday, announced the four winners of this year’s distinguished alumni awards during the virtual commencement ceremony of its centenary celebrations. Professor Subhash Chander Handa, Akshai Kumar Runchal, Manmohan S Kalsi, and Jarnail Singh were announced as the distinguished alumni 2020.The institute introduced a Young Alumnus Award this year to recognise the outstanding services of an alumnus below 40 years of age. Chakshu Kalra, who completed his BTech in materials and metallurgical engineering from PEC in 2004, was announced the awardee for the same.The institute presents distinguished alumni awards annually. This year, it received over 100 nominations from its alumni from around the world, whose screening and selection had been done by two committees of PEC.Professor Subhash Chander completed his BSc in civil engineering in 1963. He retired as a professor from the civil engineering department of IIT Roorkee in 2004. He is the founder of Roorkee’s ‘Anushruti Academy for the Deaf’.Akshai Kumar Runchal completed his BSc (honours) in mechanical engineering in 1964. He is the founder and director of the CFD Virtual Reality Institute.Manmohan S Kalsi, who completed his BSc (honours) in mechanical engineering in 1967 from the institution, is the founder and president of Kalsi Engineering. He has more than 35 patents registered in his name.Jarnail Singh, BSc engineering (honours), who graduated in 1970, played major roles in improving the government services and public administration at national and state levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/centenary-celebrations-punjab-engineering-college-declares-winners-of-distinguished-alumni-awards/story-FwFNStZsKyxfAUayyGnAZK.html
09-11-2020||Mumbai||57% of Mumbai hotels, malls and commercial establishments inspected in 2 years violated fire safety norms: MFB||Since January 2019, 57% of 12,743 hotels, malls and other commercial establishments in the city have been found violating fire safety norms, according to Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB). Fire safety compliance has been in the spotlight since October 22, when a level 1 (small) fire at City Centre Mall in Mumbai Central rapidly escalated to level 5 (brigade call). In a report submitted before the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) standing committee, MFB said, “From January 2019, inspection of several malls, hotels and commercial establishments were done. During this course, 12,743 hotels and establishments were inspected, post which fire compliance action was taken against 7,278 establishments.” MFB said regular inspection by a joint compliance team of BMC and MFB has issued several notices over non-compliance.For fire safety compliance, the fire department conducts timely inspections, issues notices for non-compliance and stipulates a time period within which occupiers or developers must comply with the rules. If they do not, they are prosecuted in court.MFB also said 11,765 gas cylinders have been confiscated for illegal use in the last two years.Adarsh Shetty from Ahar, an umbrella body for hotels and restaurants in Mumbai, said, “We have been regularly telling members of our association to ensure fire safety measures are up to date.” Shetty said there is greater attention on fire compliance at restaurants and hotels. “As we are out in the public, we are noticed more,” he said. Fire safety expert and President of Mumbai Fire Brigade Officers’ Association Prakash Devdas said, “Malls, hotels and commercial establishments are locations where footfall is high and hence, we need high-quality fire compliance. The problem with our fire officers is that they are not adequately trained to ascertain fire safety compliance as per Maharashtra Fire Act.”Regarding the fire at City Centre Mall, MFB in its report said, “During firefighting at City Centre Mall, it was observed that the firefighting system inside the mall was non-functional. In this regard, appropriate action is under process.” Corporators from across party lines have questioned the quality of MFB’s fire safety inspection. Congress corporator and leader of Opposition Ravi Raja said, “If everything was perfect, why did the firefighting system of City Centre Mall not function? This means the inspection was not proper and hence action should be taken against the officers who did inspection.” Samajwadi Party corporator Rais Shaikh said, “This is a serious lapse by the fire brigade and I demand the state order a criminal probe to book those responsible.”The fire at City Centre Mall was reported on October 22, on the second floor at 8.53pm. It started off as a level-1 fire, but soon spread to other floors. At 2.42am on October 23, MFB declared it a level-5 fire, which is rare and requires the chief fire officer to be present. Five fire officers out of the 250 firefighters deployed were injured and 203 tankers were deployed. MFB has said an investigation into the fire is ongoing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/57-of-mumbai-hotels-malls-and-commercial-establishments-inspected-in-2-years-violated-fire-safety-norms-mfb/story-1InMHmkwtXxehwIMSM4ClN.html
09-11-2020||City||Panchkula RWAs seek ban on crackers||After Chandigarh imposed a ban on crackers during Diwali, the members of resident welfare associations (RWAs) in Panchkula are also seeking a similar ban in the city.The Covid-19 cases have been on the rise since last week. Most of the residents believe that approaching winters and an increase in pollution caused by crackers will lead to a further surge in cases.Dr SK Chhabra, member of Panchkula health committee and president of RSA, Sector 7, said, “The Covid-19 cases have started increasing in the city within a week. If precautions are not taken, the number will shoot further.”He said that there must be a complete ban on bursting crackers in the city. “If not stopped, there will be a rise in air pollution, which along with the winter season will create the worst scenario leading to rising in Covid-19 cases. So, there must be a 100% ban on crackers.”SK Nayar, president of the citizen welfare association (CWA), Panchkula, said, “Last week, some of the members of the RWAs conducted a meeting and decided to convey to the authorities the need to ban the crackers to ensure safety of people during the pandemic.”Last week, the association also wrote to deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, the health authorities, seeking a ban on the sale of crackers. “We have got no response, yet,” Nayar said.Sunil Jain, general secretary of the CWA and resident of Sector 11, said, “We all agree that there should be a ban on the use of crackers. The CM has given permission for two hours, but what purpose will it serve? There should be a complete ban.”AIR QUALITY POORER IN PANCHKULA The Air Quality Index (AQI) at the Haryana State Pollution Control Board in Sector 6, Panchkula, was recorded at 236 at noon on Monday. It had gone up to 250 on November 5 at midnight and has remained in the poor bracket (200-300) since then. In Chandigarh, AQI had gone up to 203 on November 4 but later returned to a moderate level (100-200) and was recorded at 151 at noon before dropping to 130s in the evening at the Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Station in Sector 25. Speaking about why the AQI is comparatively lower in Chandigarh, Debendra Dalai, vice-chairman of Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee, said, “The city has a larger green cover which is of advantage to the city. Apart from that, minor changes in temperature and wind patterns can also lead to different AQI readings despite the proximity of the two cities.” In the moderate bracket, air can cause breathing discomfort to people with lungs, asthma, and heart diseases. When poor, it can cause breathing discomfort to most people on prolonged exposure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-rwas-seek-ban-on-crackers/story-pmPtAzdGT5V0db5AWf2YBN.html
09-11-2020||Mumbai||2 MSRTC staff die by suicide over salary in Maharashtra; Opposition hits out at MVA government||After two Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) employees on Monday died by suicide, one of them citing the erratic disbursement of salary the reason behind taking the drastic step, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has demanded arrested of transport minister Anil Parab. This comes after the arrest of news anchor Arnab Goswami in the alleged abetment to suicide case. The deaths have also led to the furore among corporation’s more than one lakh employees.Manoj Anil Choudhary, 30, a conductor, died by suicide at his residence in Jalgaon. In his suicide note, he held the state government responsible for the financial crisis because of which he took the drastic step. Another MSRTC employee named Pandurang Gadade died by suicide in Ratnagiri, though the reason for his death was not known.The MSRTC employees have not been paid their salaries for the last three months owing to the financial crunch the state body faced amid Covid-19 lockdown. Employees across the state held agitation demanding the payments and condemning government over the delay in releasing the salaries. Transport minister Anil Parab announced to release the salary of employees for two months immediately on Monday.“The corporation could not pay the salaries for three months from August to October. The salary for August will be released immediately, while the payment of salary for September will be done before Diwali. I request the state transport workers to not take any extreme steps,” said Parab.Choudhary said in his suicide note that he was committing suicide for low salary and irregularities in payment. He has stated that his family had nothing to do with his death.In the backdrop of the suicides, the BJP has sharply attacked the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government led by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.BJP leader Atul Bhatkhalkar said the yardstick applied for the arrest of Goswami should be used here as well. “Goswami was arrested on the basis of the suicide note by interior designer Anvay Naik. Similarly, Parab should be arrested as the MSRTC employee has held Thackeray government responsible for his suicide. The government has been spending huge amounts on luxurious cars, leading counsels appointed in various cases, but has made no provision for the payment of the salaries of MSRTC employees. The government is solely responsible for the deaths of its employees,” he said.Leader of Opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said, “Despite repeated letters to look into the financial crisis at MSRTC, no heed was paid by the government. Would the Thackeray government take the responsibility of these suicides?”MSRTC needs ₹292 crore to make salaries of its one lakh employees per month. On October 30, the corporation sought ₹3,600 from the state government for the salaries and other expenses.BoxLeader of opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on Monday afternoon in his tweet requested Bombay high court to take suo motu cognisance of the treatment given to Arnab Goswami. “While deciding on the matter today, it is our humble request to the Hon High Court to take suo moto cognisance of the way MVA State government in Maharashtra has treated Arnab Goswami during the entire process of arrest to handling under custody, as alleged by him,” the tweet states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-msrtc-staff-die-by-suicide-over-salary-in-maharashtra-opposition-hits-out-at-mva-government/story-tErf3FeOuD1qJEHrf1OqPO.html
09-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government withdraws NGT clause for Mumbai’s Metro Bhavan land transfer||In a notification issued on Monday, the Maharashtra government’s animal husbandry, dairy and fisheries department withdrew a clause to seek approval from the National Green Tribunal (NGT) for transferring land at Pahadi Goregaon for the Metro Bhavan. The Metro Bhavan has been proposed as a common control centre for all the 14 lines to be developed in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR).According to the notification, the state’s urban development department had sought an opinion from the law department for the transfer of the land to the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA). In 2018, the state’s revenue department had transferred 8,000 square metres of land to the urban development department on the pre-condition that it would seek NGT’s approval. However, following MMRDA’s request and the law department’s opinion, the clause has been removed through the notification issued on Monday, a state government official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-withdraws-ngt-clause-for-mumbai-s-metro-bhavan-land-transfer/story-LjpjmpHCd29cn82KaqiuLL.html
09-11-2020||Mumbai||Schools in Mumbai conducting online classes during Diwali break, allege parents||Even as the state education department has declared Diwali vacations for students from November 7, parents of some schools have alleged that schools are continuing online classes. Several parents have approached the education department complaining that students are still being asked to attend classes. “The school has organised classes for students this entire week. What is the purpose of the vacations if schools continue to teach online?” said a parent of a Dadar-based school student. Some schools have also scheduled internal tests for students during this period. “The school said that the exams need to be finished before Diwali break. Some students who had missed the exams are now being given another chance to appear,” said a parent from Kandivli. Officials from the education department said they have not received any written complaints from parents yet. “We will write to the schools if we hear from parents. The schools should not conduct any teaching during this period,” said the official.After facing flak for reducing the Diwali break to only five days, the education department changed its stand and announced that the break would now be of 14 days and students will thus get a holiday between November 7 and 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/schools-in-mumbai-conducting-online-classes-during-diwali-break-allege-parents/story-5sANBjQyKIsdaa9otsB5hK.html
09-11-2020||Delhi||Salary from students’ funds: Delhi HC refuses to lift stay on order||The Delhi high court on Monday refused to lift the stay on the government’s decision asking 12 Delhi University colleges, which are fully funded by it, to pay outstanding salaries of staffers from the students’ fund. The court had on October 23 stayed the government order in this regard.Justice Jyoti Singh said that it will decide the application seeking vacation of stay only after hearing all the parties and sought replies from all 12 colleges. The court issued notices to the 12 colleges and Delhi University Students Union (DUSU) on the Delhi government’s application to vacate the stay order.The court also granted three weeks’ time to the colleges to file their replies to the petition filed by DUSU, which has challenged the October 16 order of Delhi government asking the institutes to pay the salaries of over 1,500 staff — both teaching and non-teaching — from the students’ fund.Appearing for the Delhi government, its counsel urged the high court to vacate the October 23 while contending that the government is compelled to release the funds despite the fact that the colleges are sitting over a huge amount of money.However, the court did not pass any order and said that its October 23 order would continue till further directions.The high court had earlier issued notices to the directorate of higher education, Delhi University and Delhi government and sought their replies on the petition by DUSU.The 12 colleges, which are affiliated with the Delhi University and are fully funded by the Delhi government are Acharya Narendra Dev College, Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar College, Bhaskaracharya College of Applied Sciences, Bhagini Nivedita College, DeenDayal Upadhyaya College, Aditi Mahavidyalaya Women’s College, Indira Gandhi Institute of Physical Education & Sports Sciences, Keshav Mahavidyalaya, Maharaja Agrasen College (DU), Maharshi Valmiki College of Education, Shaheed Rajguru College of Applied Sciences for Women and Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies.DUSU, in its plea, has said: “Such arbitrary and illegal usage of the money raised by the students for their academic welfare has forced the petitioner who represents the students of the university as a union, to come to this court for quashing of such illegal, unjust and arbitrary order that is unjust and violative of the rights of the students as a whole.”Delhi University’s counsel had said the varsity is supporting the students’ petition and added that the student’s fund cannot be used for paying teachers’ salaries and it will amount to cheating the students.The plea said the directorate of higher education has directed the 12 colleges, which are 100 per cent funded by the Delhi government, to exhaust and utilise the funds gathered by the students with respect to the Students Society Fund (SSF) maintained by the respective colleges for and by the students.Welcoming the court’s decision, Delhi University Principal Association (DUPA) secretary Manoj Sinha said, “The DUPA does not support paying of salaries from student society funds. This suggestion to do so is both bad in law as well as surreptitious privatisation of higher education.”“The court has asked Delhi University, the 12 colleges and Delhi government to file their responses and the next hearing will be on December 15. The Delhi government will put forward the multiple financial irregularities before the court,” a government spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/salary-from-students-funds-delhi-hc-refuses-to-lift-stay-on-order/story-XdZwLPFyTSaaaPevGy5NkL.html
09-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt releases funds to four colleges to pay salaries, but with conditions||The Delhi government on Monday released funds to four fully state-funded colleges in the Delhi University (DU) for payment of outstanding salaries to teaching and non-teaching staff — on condition that action be taken against those found involved in violation of ‘pattern of assistance’ norms.The Delhi high court had on November 4 directed the Delhi government to release the funds for the salaries to four colleges--- Dr. Bhim Rao Ambedkar College, Bhagini Nivedita College, Aditi Mahavidyalaya Women’s College, and Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies--- affiliated under the Directorate General of Higher Studies (DGHS). The directions had come on a petition filed by eight teachers through advocate Ashok Agarwal contending that they did not receive their salaries for the months of May, June, July, and August. In an order issued on Monday, the Delhi government’s higher education department said that Rs 19.4 crore was released for the payment of salaries to the teaching and non-teaching employees of these colleges, and Rs 1.67 crore have been issued for general purpose —including electricity, water, tax payment, among other expenses. The government, however, made it clear that it now expected action to be taken against those involved in a violation of the ‘pattern of assistance’ norms.  “It is brought to the light that salary is being paid to some teaching and non-teaching staff, whose post creation and appointment have not been approved by the Delhi government, even though the pattern of assistance clearly says that all creation and filling of posts has to be done with the approval of GNCT of Delhi. Action will be taken against this violation and the money spent on salaries for posts without permission, may be recovered from the officials, who were involved in decision making of these violations,” the order stated.Officials at the four concerned colleges said that they are analysing the grants received with their requirements. “Our finance department is still calculating and analysing to check if the funds received are sufficient or not,” said an official at Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies. Manoj Sinha, secretary of DU Principal Association (DUPA), said, “We welcome the part release of grants and request the Delhi government to make timely payments in future as per the budget of each college.”“As per the pattern of assistance, the Delhi government will provide funding on a net deficit basis (total revenue from all sources minus total expenditure). Therefore the money being released now will be adjusted within the current financial year based on the assessment of the total revenue of the college… Any college that does not disclose its revenue, shall not be given any further grant from the government,” the order added. DU teachers have been protesting against the delay in disbursal of grants in the 12 government-funded colleges, which they said is the main cause behind pending salaries of teaching and non-teaching staff for months. The government attributed this delay in releasing funds to the alleged financial irregularities in these colleges. Delhi Education Minister Manish Sisodia last Friday had alleged financial irregularities indicating a “big fraud” and “ghost appointments” in at least five fully state-funded colleges in DU. The allegations were rejected by the colleges. Abha Dev Habib, treasurer of DU teachers association (DUTA), said that the grants released by the government are still “insufficient”. “Wherever grants have been sanctioned, it is insufficient to cover pending dues including reimbursements and arrears due to employees on account of 7th pay commission.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-releases-funds-to-four-colleges-to-pay-salaries-but-with-conditions/story-NKSQX7xbAF3I9hzNuFoHcI.html
09-11-2020||Gurugram||Health department to tighten mask discipline, social distancing measures||The state administration is planning to tighten the enforcement of mask discipline and social distancing measures to control the rapid spike of Covid-19 cases in the district, said a senior state official. With Haryana being among the 10 worst-affected states due to rising Covid-19 infections, the home department plans to hold a meeting with the police and district administration officials on Tuesday to contain Covid-19 transmission. “The aim is to strengthen the enforcement of regulations in market areas and public spaces to control the spread of Covid-19 transmission,” said Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, health department. “In the last three-four days, the number of challans for mask violations in Gurugram have increased,” said Arora.Transmission in the district has increased due to festive season and rush in markets, with people showing lax behaviour in wearing masks and maintaining social distance. On Monday, the district reported 697 new infections — a slight decline from the 964 cases in a single day, the highest since the outbreak of the pandemic. On Sunday, the daily positivity rate touched almost 24%. Since November 1, the district has reported the maximum surge, with an average of nearly 600 new infections every day. This has taken the tally to 35,439, of which 5,343 are active cases. The record spike had impacted the overall state figures. According to the state health bulletin, of the new cases recorded in a day across 22 districts, which almost 2,400, nearly 57% Covid-19 case load comes from Gurugram and Faridabad. It is for this reason, Haryana is among the states contributing to nearly 79% of the new cases in the country since November 7. Arora said, “The state is touching its third peak of Covid-19, however it is prepared to handle the surge. Especially in Gurugram, testing numbers have been increased. Although there is an uptick, mortality is still under control. If cases are increasing now, then recovery rate will also increase in the next 10 days. Till then, strict regulations have to followed. A meeting will be held with the deputy commissioner, police officials and MCG commissioner on the current status of Covid-19 in the district. Feedbacks will be taken from them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/health-department-to-tighten-mask-discipline-social-distancing-measures/story-eBEvGxDzSfUbS9Fv7xPc2I.html
09-11-2020||Gurugram||Rural health workers to be roped in to help out with Covid-19 measures||Amid the rising incidence of Covid-19 cases in the city, the district health department has decided to rope in rural health teams for managing contact tracing and taking care of home-isolated patients in urban clusters, said health department officials. With a record spike in new infections in the last two weeks, health workers in the urban primary health care centres (UPHCs) across the city are working under tremendous pressure. “The department is coping with the current situation with the available resources. Since the trajectory of the new infections is likely go upwards till the end of the festival season, we might increase the strength of the health teams in the urban areas. Rapid Response Teams (RRTs) from rural areas will be shifted to urban areas to execute tests, manage contact tracing and take care of home-isolated patients,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer.In Gurugram, since November 1, 605 new infections on an average have been reported every day, which are more than double the numbers recorded in the previous months. To handle the surge in cases, the health department has deployed 143 RRTs in urban areas and 163 in rural areas. Each RRT consists of an auxiliary nurse midwife (ANMs), an accredited social health activists (ASHA) worker, and an Anganwadi worker.In urban areas, these RRTs have to conduct contact tracing and keep a tab on home-isolated patients, who form more than 93% of the total active cases. Of the 5,343 active cases, at least 4,994 are currently under home isolation and 339 are hospitalised. Besides RRTs, 22 teams which includes a doctor each, have also been formed to visit patients based on the calls made to them every alternate day by ANMs.According to Dr Hardeep Kaur Saluja, medical officer, Tigra UPHC, it is in the last 10 days, the work load has drastically increased. The per day positive cases in her area has increased to over 160 now, compared to just 50 cases in previous months. “The RRTs are working even after the end of the shifts. They have to make calls to home-isolated patients late in the evenings to ensure serious cases are not missed out,” she said.According to her, every ANM has to now make more than 30 calls a day. Likewise, Dr Neelam Sharma, medical officer of Firoze Gandhi Colony said that her team makes 40 calls a day to enquire about the health condition of the patient. “Besides making calls, they have to go for home visits of these patients — the number of which have increased from 20 visits a day to 40 visits,” said Sharma, adding that the teams then have to fill in online details of the visit. “Number of patients to be tracked in a day has more than doubled in the last two weeks, thereby increasing our work pressure,” she said. Likewise, ASHAs have to cover more high-risk cases under contact tracing. “From nearly 20 visits a day, our ASHAs are now covering over 50 homes a day for contact tracing. It is more than double of what we used to do earlier,” said Meera Devi, an ASHA worker, also district president of the ASHA workers union in Gurugram. Another medical officer, who preferred not to be named said that apart from Covid-19, routine health activities have to be conducted too. “It includes immunisations and anti-natal checkups, which cannot be missed due to Covid-19. The health team is under extreme pressure since the pandemic outbreak.”Meanwhile the city reported 697 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of Covid-19 cases to 35,439. Three new deaths were reported, taking the toll to 230 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/rural-health-workers-to-be-roped-in-to-help-out-with-covid-19-measures/story-8axB36gE4DHcLuGBXCU8tO.html
09-11-2020||Gurugram||RWAs call on residents to celebrate a cracker-free Diwali||Concerned over spikes in pollution levels and Covid-19 cases, residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) are exhorting residents to celebrate a cracker-free Diwali this year. RWAs said that even before the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Monday ordered a ban on firecrackers in Delhi-NCR, they have been encouraging residents to avoid crackers and, instead, opt for recycled decorations and traditional lights to mark the festival.Silver Oaks Apartments in DLF Phase-1 will be celebrating a green Diwali this year, said residents. In a note shared with residents last week, the society’s RWA said that the commissioner of police had informed that the condominium, along with other blocks in the vicinity, was required to be completely cracker-free on all days, including the day of the festival. “Looking at the smog enveloping us as and also the number of Covid-19 cases, we recommend our residents to ensure a cracker-free Diwali,” said Malti Sawhney, the RWA’s general secretary. Rupali Jain, an RWA member at Silver Oaks, said that residents would be continuing the practice of a cracker-free Diwali, which has been the case for the past years. “For the past seven years, we have been celebrating a cracker-free Diwali. This year too, the practice continues. Residents are not allowed to burst crackers within the condominium. We plan to light earthen lamps on Diwali to mark the festival,” said Jain. She added that the norms have gotten stricter this year and that the police have advised residents to not burst crackers in the area. “Until last year, people keen on bursting crackers would do so outside the condominium. Apart from us, residents of G and H blocks in our vicinity have also been sternly told to not burst crackers. We expect the situation to be much better this year,” said Jain. Rahul Chandola, president of H block RWA, DLF Phase 1, said that orders from the district administration had been shared with residents to apprise them of the prohibitions in place. “Apart from reiterating the message of celebrating a cracker-free Diwali, we have also shared details about the prohibitory orders in place and the consequences of violating the orders. We have informed residents that police officials will be on a watch and the community should abide by the rules for a pollution-free festival,” said Chandola. At Fresco Apartments in Nirvana Country, residents have been barred from bursting crackers within the complex. Nilesh Tandon, RWA president, said that while most residents had pledged not to burst crackers, a few families that wanted to continue the tradition had been informed about the prohibitions in place. “Except maybe three to four families, everyone else has pledged to not burst crackers. We are trying to convince these families as well, but over 99% of residents will not be bursting crackers at all. No resident is allowed to burst crackers within the complex,” said Tandon. Satish Nangia, RWA president of Princeton Estate in DLF-5, said that the condominium would be observing a cracker-free Diwali and complying with the administration’s order. He said that unlike last year, the enforcement of cracker ban was expected to be stricter and all residents had been advised to comply with the norms. “SHOs have been told that they will be responsible for any violation that takes place in a particular area. Due to these directions, local area SHOs have asked us to inform them if residents fail to comply with the restrictions in place,” said Nangia. He added that the RWA was planning to seek police patrolling near the complex to ensure that crackers are not burst. “Until last year, the norms were relatively relaxed. We will be very strict this time and people will not be allowed to burst crackers outside the gates either,” said Nangia. He said that eight other RWAs in the vicinity were planning to go for a cracker-free Diwali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/rwas-call-on-residents-to-celebrate-a-cracker-free-diwali/story-Qi83PCDr7BjL4JJHgu0TIK.html
09-11-2020||Gurugram||Pollution board to monitor air for firecracker emissions||To gauge the extent of firecracker usage during Diwali festivities, the Haryana State Pollution Control Board will, from Tuesday, carry out a 15-day monitoring exercise to check for the presence of heavy metals — which are common constituents of firecrackers — in ambient air.While the National Green Tribunal on Monday banned the use of firecrackers in Delhi-NCR, effective from Tuesday to November 30, officials said that some violations are still expected. Surveillance for select elements, which are not part of routine pollution monitoring, will help in determining the extent of these violations, they explained.This is the fourth consecutive year that the HSPCB will be carrying out this short-term exercise, in anticipation of a pollution spike during Diwali. While specific data from past studies has not yet been made public, HSPCB officials confirmed that constituent metals in fireworks — particularly aluminium, sulphur and barium — were found to be present in elevated quantities on Diwali, and in the ensuing days, across most monitoring locations in the state.“These are the only two weeks in the year when targeted monitoring for heavy metals is carried out, due to Diwali. It is important to do the exercise each year so that we can compare data and see whether there has been any improvement. For the past two years, data shows that there has been some reduction in firecracker use, and we will hope to see the same this year. If people are following government instructions more strictly this Diwali, due to Covid-19 or simply an increase in general awareness, our study will reflect it,” said Dr Rajesh Garhia, senior scientist, HSPCB.Data obtained from this exercise, officials said, will help not just in quantifying the pollution load around Diwali, but also to assess the public health risk posed from resulting firecracker emissions. “In addition to the standard parameters that we monitor for calculating the air quality index (AQI), we will also be checking for presence of heavy metals like iron and barium, which are indicative of firecracker use and are extremely toxic to human health,” said Dr Jai Bhagwan Sharma, senior scientist and in-charge at the HSPCB’s air quality lab in Panchkula.“Orders to regional officers at the district level will be issued on Tuesday. District teams will be expected to start work immediately,” Sharma said.While the study will be implemented in at least nine cities of Haryana — Gurugram, Faridabad, Panchkula, Ambala, Karnal, Panipat, Sonepat, Hisar and Rohtak — Garhia added that new cities are likely to be included in its scope this year, as places like Bahadurgarh, Rewari, Sirsa and Bhiwani have also come to be recognised as pollution hot spots. The HSPCB will also monitor noise levels in these cities for 15 days, according to protocols laid out by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).Unlike ‘automatic’ air quality monitoring stations (of which there are four in Gurugram), the short-term monitoring exercise requires chemical analysis, which, officials said, can only be done in a laboratory setting, using air samples obtained manually from the field. The CPCB protocol for monitoring pollution around Diwali states that samples need to be collected from 10 to 18 locations in each subject city.“We will take samples from four area types, including residential, commercial, industrial and ‘sensitive’ areas. These samples will then be analysed at our own lab or through a MoEFCC-certified independent laboratory,” said Kuldeep Singh, regional officer, HSPCB Gurugram.Singh did not, however, reveal which areas in the city have been classified as sensitive.While routine air pollution monitoring takes into account certain standard regulatory parameters — namely PM10, PM2.5, and gaseous pollutants like NH3, NO2, SO2, CO and O3 — pollution surveillance around Diwali tends to focus on ascertaining the quantities of heavy metals, namely iron, nickel, barium, lead, arsenic and strontium, present in ambient outdoor air.“These elements are common constituents of firecrackers. When they are burnt, the combustion releases them into the atmosphere in the form of tiny, respirable particles. When an individual breathes this air, the elements enter their bloodstream, settle in their organs and accelerate their degeneration,” said Abhishek Srivastava, a city-based environmental engineer who has been tracking air quality trends in Gurugram.“Such surveillance is important. The quantity of these elements in the atmosphere, when aligned with demographic information, can help researchers assess the health risk faced by the subject population,” Srivastava added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/pollution-board-to-monitor-air-for-firecracker-emissions/story-Iy0ypON2xZdUd0EAXNrOiI.html
09-11-2020||Mumbai||Anvay Naik suicide case: Court to hear Alibag police’s plea for Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami’s custody today||A sessions court in Alibag on Monday adjourned to Tuesday hearing into the revision application filed by the local crime branch of Alibag police, seeking custodial interrogation of Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami and two others, in connection with the 2018 Anvay Naik suicide case. The court is also likely to hear the bail applications filed by all the three accused – Goswami, Feroz Shaikh and Nitesh Sarda – on Tuesday. In another related development, Alibag police on November 6 obtained permission from the chief judicial magistrate to interrogate Goswami and two others for a period of three hours every day, while they are in judicial custody. Goswami, Shaikh and Sarda were arrested by Alibag crime branch on November 4. The same evening, a magistrate court in Alibag remanded them in judicial custody till November 18. The prosecution had challenged the order of the magistrate court and filed a revision application asking for police custody of Goswami and the others. Special public prosecutor Pradeep Gharat had argued that they needed the police custody of the three accused for interrogation. “Sarda did not pay ₹55 lakh, Goswami ₹83 lakh and Shaikh ₹4 crore. Kindly collect money from them and hold them responsible for death,” Gharat had argued. “Judicial custody given by the magistrate court is illegal and inappropriate. The summary report filed by the previous investigating officer Suresh Warade was illegal, which has been accepted by the court,” Gharat had said on Saturday. Responding to the prosecution’s argument, defence lawyer for Sarda filed two applications before the sessions court. The first application to adjourn the hearing was rejected by the court after which he moved an application to reject the revision petition filed by Alibag police. Later, the court asked Goswami’s lawyer and senior counsel Aabad Ponda to argue. Ponda sought time to go through the argument of the prosecution which was rejected by the court. Another advocate Karan Kadam appearing for Sarda moved an application questioning the maintainability and said the magistrate court’s order could not be challenged in the sessions court and should be done in the high court as the accused had already been sent to judicial custody. Goswami’s and Shaikh’s lawyers are expected to place their arguments tomorrow. Meanwhile, crime branch officers questioned Goswami in Taloja jail on Monday. Also, inspector general of police Sanjay Mohite (Konkan range) has written to Mira-Bhayander commissioner Sadanand Date to suspend senior inspector Suresh Warade, who was the investigating officer of the case, for not conducting proper inquiry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/anvay-naik-suicide-case-court-to-hear-alibag-police-s-plea-for-republic-tv-editor-arnab-goswami-s-custody-today/story-JMoivN9OP1zriIXgwqZgkN.html
09-11-2020||Gurugram||Haryana announces cracker ban in NCR cities||After the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Monday announced a complete ban on sale and use of all types of firecrackers in Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR), the Haryana administration followed suit late Monday, banning crackers in its NCR districts.On Monday night, chief secretary Vijai Vardhan issued an order directing all district magistrates, police officials and Haryana State Pollution Control Board officials to implement the NGT order with immediate effect. The order stated that enforcement guidelines may be issued in consonance with the direction of the NGT.The Haryana government’s stance on sale and bursting of firecrackers has changed over the last few days. On Friday, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar announced a complete ban on the sale of firecrackers to prevent air pollution. Two days after the announcement, the state administration issued an order, relaxing norms pertaining to bursting of firecrackers. Khattar, in Fatehabad on Sunday, changed his stance and had said that people will be permitted to burst firecrackers, but only for two hours on Diwali.On Sunday, chief secretary Vardhan, who is also the chairperson of Haryana State Disaster Management Authority, issued an order stating that fireworks will be allowed between 8pm and 10pm on the day of the festival. However, earlier on Monday, he said, “A revised order will be issued by the state administration after going through the NGT order.”The NGT order bans firecrackers in NCR from the midnight of November 9 to the midnight of November 30. Earlier this week, the NGT had sought responses from states in the NCR on banning firecrackers.An earlier order issued by the state on Sunday, which permitted fireworks for a limited time period, stated that the decision was taken to strike a balance between the potentially harmful consequences of bursting of crackers amid the Covid-19 pandemic as well as the economic impact on small traders. However, this order will be void in NCR districts, following the blanket ban announced by the NGT.The state is currently under the double burden of having severe air quality index and Covid-19, both of which is adversely affecting the respiratory health of vulnerable groups.Meanwhile, the police department has designated 40 special teams across the city to keep a check and take action against violators found defying the state government’s order with regard to crackers. KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said that apart from the special teams, they have deployed six additional teams of crime investigation unit to keep a check in condominiums located along Golf Course Road, Sohna Road and Golf Course Extension Road. “Strict instructions have been given to each station house officer (SHO) to ensure that residents in their areas adhere to the rules and regulations laid down by the administration. Anyone found flouting the order shall be punished under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC),” he said.The police have also directed all the residents’ welfare association (RWA) members to circulate guidelines to the residents of their areas, urging them not to burst crackers or plan gatherings. All Diwali celebrations have been cancelled to prevent the spread of Covid-19, the police said. Market association members have been asked to maintain social distancing and not allow more than two people at a time inside any shop. “Any shopkeeper found attending to anyone without a mask will be penalised and booked under Section 188 of the IPC. It has been seen that people are carelessly moving around, not wearing face masks or maintaining social distance,” said Rao.The police said that the control room has received 113 calls from residents to check if they can burst crackers wearing masks. More than 200 calls were regarding the difference between green crackers and normal crackers and how to differentiate between them, said the police.The police have booked 32 people in the last two days for bursting crackers in residential areas, despite repeated warnings.An earlier order from the district administration had stated that Diwali celebrations will be allowed only at designated places — Huda grounds in sectors 5 and 29, Bhaktawar Singh Chowk in Sector 47, Beri Wala Bagh near Mini Secretariat, Tau Devi Lal Stadium in Sohna, the open space near Aggarwal Dharamshala in Haily Mandi, the Purana Ramleela Ground in Farrukhnagar and Huda ground in Pataudi’s Sector 1. However, this order would not be in effect after the NGT banned the use of firecrackers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-announces-cracker-ban-in-ncr-cities/story-44TqbkmozMRDE2NyzYLxGJ.html
09-11-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram air in ‘severe’ zone for third consecutive day||The city on Monday recorded its worst air quality of the year, with a reading of 482 (in ‘severe’ zone) on the Central Pollution Control Board’s air quality index (AQI) bulletin. It was also the third consecutive day of ‘severe’ air in Gurugram, marking the city’s longest spate of such hazardous air quality this season. On Monday evening, the HSPCB’s air quality monitor at Vikas Sadan showed an AQI of 492, while two monitors on the Gurugram-Faridabad road had an AQI of 467 and 437. The HSPCB’s monitor in Sector 51, however, recorded an AQI of at least 500 (the upper limit of the apparatus) for around 20 continuous hours on Monday.An AQI reading between 401 and 500 is categorised as ‘severe’ and can cause people distress and respiratory complications, especially for children and senior citizens, as per the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) national ambient air quality standards. When air quality index surpasses a reading of 500, it enters the ‘severe plus’ category, during which construction work is to be halted, entry of trucks into Delhi-NCR cities stopped and the odd-even vehicle rationing scheme is recommended to be implemented, as per the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap). Gurugram was also among the most polluted cities in the country on Monday, as per CPCB data. Of the 110 cities in India where air quality is routinely monitored, only Dharuhera (in Rewari) and Manesar had worse air quality than Gurugram, with AQIs of 491 and 483, respectively. Meanwhile, other major cities in the national capital region (NCR), which have typically recorded higher pollution levels than Gurugram, recorded ‘severe’ AQIs but had readings slightly lower than that of Gurugram. New Delhi on Monday had an AQI of 477, while Faridabad had an AQI of 456. In Uttar Pradesh, Ghaziabad had an AQI of 482, while Noida and Greater Noida recorded 478 and 477 on the AQI charts, respectively.“Until late last week, winds blowing from the north and north west of Delhi were able to transport some of Gurugram’s pollution eastward. Over the weekend, this locomotion of pollutants has stopped due to wind speeds becoming almost negligible. Since Saturday, there has been a steady accumulation of dust and particulate matter across Delhi-NCR, a lot of which has come from farm fires in Punjab and Haryana. If it wasn’t for favourable wind speeds, Gurugram would have been faced with this situation a few days earlier,” said Sachin Panwar, a city-based air quality scientist. Ultrafine particulate matter having a diameter less than 2.5 microns (PM2.5) was the city’s most prominent pollutant on Monday, with a reading of 462 micrograms per cubic metre (ug/m3), up from 437ug/m3 on Sunday — when Gurugram’s AQI was 434 — as per CPCB data. As per the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, “Significantly high farm fire counts (approx 3,600) were observed over Punjab on 08.11.2020 which is affecting AQI over Delhi/NCR and parts of Northwest India.” It further stated that the deterioration in air quality is “likely owing to slow wind speed in particular during night time and contribution from farm fires.” The situation is not expected to improve significantly this week, and “air quality is likely to remain in Severe to upper end of Very Poor category on 10.11.2020 and Very Poor category on 11.11.2020.”However, with the IMD predicting a change in wind direction from November 10, only a slight improvement may be expected across Delhi-NCR. As per the CPCB’s central control room forecast, the AQI for Gurugram’s Vikas Sadan monitor is expected to be around 440 on Tuesday, and may improve to 317 (’very poor’) on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-air-in-severe-zone-for-third-consecutive-day/story-8y34ceeXhz69lNHGgRa74H.html
09-11-2020||Gurugram||GCER murder: Cops announce reward of ₹5 lakh for information on suspects||The police on Monday announced a cash reward of ₹5 lakh for any information on the three suspects who allegedly shot dead 26-year-old private firm executive Pooja Sharma, during a suspected robbery attempt near Golf Course Extension Road on November 3.There has been no breakthrough in the case yet, said the police, but sketches of the suspects will be prepared based on the CCTV footage and their description as given by the woman’s fiance, who was with her at the time of the incident. KK Rao, commissioner of police, said that they have recovered CCTV footage of the three suspects, who were not wearing any face masks. “We are getting all three sketches ready and it will take two days for us to release them. They had removed their helmets in two areas and their faces were captured in CCTV footage. The sketches will be prepared accordingly,” he said. Rao said he called a meeting on Monday with all the officials involved in the investigation, including crime investigation units, and have asked one team to visit Bhondsi Jail to show the sketches to inmates to find possible leads related to the suspects. The police said the sketches will be widely circulated and pasted near all bus stands, railway stations, market areas and in rural areas of nearby districts. The police will start a social media campaign so as to reach out to the maximum number of people possible. Rao said that they are in touch with police of neighbouring states, districts and the Capital as well as intelligence agencies for information on the three suspects. “We are looking into all angles and probing each and every possibility very minutely. So far, findings suggest that the suspects have links in Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan. Some inmates lodged in different jails are being questioned,” he said. Sharma worked with an IT company in Sector 48 in medical claims and insurance department, and was visiting Gurugram from Delhi on November 3 to collect her laptop from the office. The family told police that the process took time and she got late due to which she visited her fiance, Sagar Manchanda, in Sector 40. They had gone to have dinner in the Sector 31 market and left for drive at around 8pm on Delhi-Jaipur Expressway. The incident took place at 11pm, roughly 50 metres away from Golf Course Extension Road (GCER). Three suspects intercepted the car the victim was driving and tried to force open the doors. However, when they could not succeed, they shot at both of them and one bullet hit Sharma in her head. She collapsed in the car and the suspects fled the spot, said Manchanda. He escaped unhurt and drove the car to a private hospital in Sector 38, where the victim died while undergoing treatment on November 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gcer-murder-cops-announce-reward-of-5-lakh-for-information-on-suspects/story-OpUJxHPLaVLFZ6hjz1OtTP.html
09-11-2020||Gurugram||MCG creates city’s first model school safe zone in Sector 47||A 200-metre stretch outside Mount Olympus School in Sector 47 was temporarily re-engineered on Sunday with the help of cones, paints, recycled seats and signage to make it the city’s first model school safe zone, said officials of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) on Monday.The week-long trial was started with the aim of increasing safety for school children and staff members. The project was carried out by World Resources Institute (WRI) India and Raahgiri Foundation, in collaboration with the MCG and the district administration under the Vision Zero for Youth Project.The temporary re-engineering included creation of makeshift pavements, waiting areas, pick-up and drop-off areas for school children.Under the project, signage of speed limit of 25 kmph, children crossing, no parking, pick up and drop off areas, and school zone was installed. The median, drop-off, and pick-up areas were all barricaded with traffic cones. WRI and Raahgiri officials said the changes will remain until the end of this week.“The 200-metre school street has been reclaimed for children by reallocating spaces for footpaths, pick-up and drop-off facilities along with making spaces for waiting areas and safe crossing zone and installing road safety signage. The design has the capacity to inspire and act as a scalable model for other areas, making streets safer for children,” said Priyanka Sulkhlan, manager, cities and transport, WRI India.As per Neeti Kaushik, principal, Mount Olympus School, nearly 70% of students either walk or cycle to school.“The 200-metre stretch was potholed, filled with mud, and had a high volume of traffic. Our students used to cross this stretch daily with limited pedestrian facilities. The stretch has now been completely transformed and will now be safe for children to navigate. It would encourage more students to cycle or walk to school. We hope it becomes a permanent feature and gets replicated across many schools in the city,” said Kaushik. Most private schools in the city are still closed for classroom sessions due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Sarika Panda Bhatt, co-founder, Raahgiri foundation, said that the issue of road safety is even more critical when it comes to children because of their lack of judgement regarding speed and distances. “About 43 children die on Indian roads every day. The major reason for these deaths is the lack of pedestrian-friendly road design. Road safety is a subject that every child should know about and grow up with,” said BhattOn Sunday, Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG, and chief engineer Raman Sharma along with a team of MCG officials also participated in the project. “Any engineering changes that make the roads safer are always encouraged and supported by the MCG. We will be supporting more such initiatives in the future as well,” said SS Rohilla, public relations officer (PRO), MCG.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-creates-city-s-first-model-school-safe-zone-in-sector-47/story-idPuGPGld7An2qlGOoEcNP.html
09-11-2020||Mumbai||Anvay Naik suicide case: Bombay HC refuses interim bail to Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami||The Bombay high court (HC) on Monday refused interim bail to Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami, arrested by Alibag police on November 4 in connection with a 2018 suicide abetment case. The HC also refused to stay further investigation against Goswami and two others – Feroz Shaikh and Nitesh Sarda – booked in the case. “The victim’s rights are equally important, like the rights of the accused,” said a bench of justice SS Shinde and justice MS Karnik, while also rejecting pleas for interim reliefs filed by co-accused in the case. Anvay Naik, 53, an architect and managing director of Concorde Designs Private Limited, died by suicide in his Alibag farmhouse in Raigad on May 5, 2018, police said. His mother, Kumud, too, was found dead at their home. In his suicide note, police said, Naik alleged he was being forced to take this step as he was not paid his dues – ₹83 lakh by Goswami, ₹55 lakh by Sarda of Smartworks and ₹4 crore by Shaikh of IcastX/Skimedia. Acting on a complaint by Naik’s wife, Akshata, police registered an offence booking the trio on May 5, 2018. On April 16, 2019, then investigating officer of the case submitted an A-summary report and sought closure of the case for want of prosecutable evidence against any of the three accused. The jurisdictional magistrate had accepted the report the same day. The HC bench rejected Goswami’s argument that the police could not have carried further investigation and could not have arrested him in the closed case, primarily in view of the fact that the magisterial order accepting A summary was without giving notice and an opportunity to the informant - Akshata Naik - to oppose the summary report. The HC said the fact that the magistrate did not give notice and opportunity of hearing to the first informant, before accepting the summary report, “goes to the root of the matter”. “In the aforesaid background, the concerned investigating officer, after intimating the magistrate, commences the further investigation cannot be said to be irregular or illegal by any stretch of imagination,” said the bench, rejecting Goswami’s plea for interim bail and stay on investigation. A day after his arrest by Alibag police, Goswami moved the HC with a prayer for habeas corpus writ and quashing of the criminal proceeding. He had filed an interim application seeking him immediate release on bail, claiming his arrest was patently illegal, for the investigation was commenced in a “dead and closed” case, without taking appropriate permission from the jurisdictional magistrate. The HC rejected his contention, accepting the argument advanced by senior advocate Amit Desai that, unlike B and C summaries, A-summary is not a closure report and the police need not take specific permission for carrying further investigation. “In our opinion, the further investigation cannot be termed as illegal and without seeking permission of the Magistrate,” said the bench. “The same is in consonance with the power conferred by section 173 (8) of Code of Criminal Procedure,” it added. The bench clarified that merely because the magistrate had accepted the A-summary report (indicating that the complaint is true but nobody can be sent for trial for want of adequate evidence) submitted by earlier investigating officer, that would not mean and preclude the new investigating officer to invoke the provisions of section 173(8) to commence further investigation, after giving intimation to the jurisdictional magistrate. The HC found support to the view from a Supreme Court ruling in Andhra Pradesh v/s. AS Peter, in which the Apex court has held that carrying out further investigation even after filing of charge sheet, is a statutory right of the police and the law does not mandate taking prior permission of magistrate for carrying further investigation. “It is observed that whereas reinvestigation without prior permission is necessarily forbidden, further investigation is not,” said the bench. The HC also found no force in Goswami’s argument that further investigation in the 2018 case was part of an evil design to implicate him in criminal cases. In this regard, the bench said the further investigation was ordered by superior police officers, on the basis of complaints made by the complainant, Akshata Naik. The judges said the complainant and her daughter, Adnya, were justified in pursuing the matter with the state and senior police officials, as they had lost two family members. HC said the complainant had serious grievance about the earlier investigating officer and came to know about closure in the case through a tweet. HC found nothing wrong in the state government or senior police officials ordering further investigation into the case, as provisions of the Bombay Police Manual specifically confer superintendent powers on senior police officials and the power of overall supervision of the police force on the state government. The court had now posted the petitions filed by Goswami, Sarda and Shaikh’s sister Parveen Singh on December 10, to consider their prayer for quashing of the criminal proceeding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/anvay-naik-suicide-case-bombay-hc-refuses-interim-bail-to-republic-tv-editor-arnab-goswami/story-V8HB2ksNlcjLJxPELsDs4H.html
09-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government mulls expanding capacity of islanding system to avoid power outage in Mumbai||Following the major power outage in Mumbai in October, the Maharashtra government is mulling expanding the capacity of the islanding system, meant to supply uninterrupted electricity to the city. The state is intending to expand the capacity to somewhere between 2,500 megawatts (MW) to 3,000MW from the existing 1,600MW.The issue was discussed in a meeting chaired by chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on Monday.A grid failure had resulted in massive power outages in Mumbai and its suburban areas on October 12, stopping trains, disrupting office work and hitting economic activity. It took two hours for the power supply to resume for essential services; other pockets started receiving power in a phase-wise manner.Mumbai’s islanding system – through which the power supplied to the city gets isolated in case of a state-wide grid failure – failed, which led to power outage for close to 15 hours in many areas.State energy minister Nitin Raut said they have to expand the capacity of the islanding system to avoid such a situation in the future.“We need to augment the capacity of the islanding system. We are contemplating to increase it to between 2,500MW to 3,000MW. Currently, we are getting only 1,300MW as the power plants are unable to generate at full capacity. The city requires up to 2,800MW power on peak days. For this, we need to increase power generation and thus, needed to speak with the oil and coal companies,” said the energy minister.“This is also necessary as by 2030 the consumption of the city is expected to increase to 5,000MW,” he added.“We also need to consider the report of the technical committee formed by the state government to ascertain causes of power outage and similar reports sought by the Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) and the Centre,” Raut added.To handle the disruptions in power supply, Tata Power in 1981 developed the islanding system that is meant to ensure that the power systems of Tata and Adani plants are intentionally isolated or islanded from the external grid. This helps the power generated at these plants to be transmitted to concentrated areas and enables the authorities to continue supply to essential-category customers.Of the approximate 2,400MW-2,600MW power supply to Mumbai, 1,600MW is to be islanded, with Tata’s Trombay thermal plant’s 500MW; 600MW from hydrogeneration units in Khopoli, and 500MW from Adani’s Dahanu plant. The system could not work as Tata plants failed to isolate from the rest of the grid. Adani Power’s Dahanu plant islanded 385MW (the supply has been reduced from 500MW owing to the Covid-19 lockdown), officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-mulls-expanding-capacity-of-islanding-system-to-avoid-power-outage-in-mumbai/story-OjdffMWrTv7jIjpLVHykoM.html
09-11-2020||City||Resolution to hike water tariff to rock Ludhiana MC house meet||Ahead of the general house meeting scheduled on Tuesday, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) councillors conducted a meeting under the leadership of Harbhajan Singh Dang to chalk out a strategy to corner mayor Balkar Sandhu and Congress during the house meet. Slamming the Congress for proposing the water tariff hike, SAD councillors rued that they will also raise the issue wherein the MC has failed to take action against any official or contractors after the road samples failed the quality test.Dang said that the mayor has also issued a letter asking councillors not to take up issues regarding their wards in the house meet and only the pan-city resolutions should be discussed in the meeting. However, this is not acceptable to the councillors as the meeting is being held after seven months and several issues including non-functional LED streetlights etc need to the highlighted.Earlier on Sunday BJP councillors also opposed the resolution wherein the civic body has decided to impose a penalty of up to Rs 50,000 to publishers/printers of illegal hoardings. SAD councillors said that the MC should also reduce the fee for installing religious hoardings in the city from Rs 2,000 to Rs 500 per hoarding. The civic body has also terminated the services of JEs and SDOs who were appointed during the SAD-BJP regime and now different branches of MC are facing staff shortage.The meeting of MC general house is scheduled to be held at Rose garden at 3 pm on Tuesday. Mayor conducts an all-party meetingWith an aim to pacify the protesters during the general house meeting, mayor Balkar Sandhu conducted an all-party meeting with councillors of SAD, BJP and LIP at his camp office on Monday evening. Mayor tried to convince leaders of different parties on the resolutions to be tabled in the general house meet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/resolution-to-hike-water-tariff-to-rock-ludhiana-mc-house-meet/story-HjIE10tJZRAAzn8mcu6pEP.html
09-11-2020||Mumbai||MMRDA inaugurates south-bound flyover on Mumbai’s Eastern Express Highway||In a respite to lakhs of commuters taking the Eastern Express Highway (EEH), the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) on Monday inaugurated the south-bound flyover at the junction of Andheri-Ghatkopar link road at the hands of Maharashtra urban development minister Eknath Shinde. The 693-metre south-bound arm is an extension of the Andheri-Ghatkopar link road (AGLR), starting from the Ghatkopar end till Vikhroli, on the highway.MMRDA undertook the ₹33.04-crore project with an aim to decongest the patch, with witnesses daily congestion. A north-bound arm moving towards Thane had already been constructed. MMRDA commissioner RA Rajeev said, “The Andheri-Ghatkopar link road junction was one of the busiest spots on the EEH. The new flyover will ease traffic and reduce congestion on the road.” MMRDA has also undertaken works on improving the Chheda Nagar junction on the EEH.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mmrda-inaugurates-south-bound-flyover-on-mumbai-s-eastern-express-highway/story-n5tRZTbSg3c9wQysJAdwBO.html
09-11-2020||Lucknow||Mahant Nritya Gopal Das admitted to Medanta in Lucknow||Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, chairman of Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, was rushed to Medanta hospital in Lucknow on Monday from Mani Ram Das Chhavni Peeth in Ayodhya after he complained of breathlessness and an increased heartbeat.He was admitted to the intensive care unit of the hospital where a team of experts is looking after him. “A high-level team of experts has been formed under the directions of Dr Rakesh Kapoor, medical director, Medanta Hospital, Lucknow, consisting of critical care, cardio thoracic surgeon, pulmonology and internal medicine to look after him,” said a bulletin issued by the hospital.In August, Mahant Nritya Gopal Das had tested positive for Covid-19 when he was in Mathura. He was rushed to Medanta Hospital, Gurugram, and recovered later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/mahant-nritya-gopal-das-admitted-to-medanta-in-lucknow/story-XTmAqYJCuk014zYr6oxpIJ.html
09-11-2020||City||Ludhiana: Mahila Congress protests atrocities against Dalits women||Scores of women gathered at Samrala chowk to participate in a protest against alleged atrocities on Dalit women by the ruling BJP government. The protest was organised on the call of Mahila Congress.Punjab Congress in-charge and former chief minister of Uttarakhand Harish Rawat participated in the demonstration organised under the chairmanship of Punjab Congress Women Wing chief Mamta Dutta and Ludhiana Mahila Congress president Lina Taparia.Referring to the increasing incidents of crime against Dalits, especially women, Harish Rawat said that since the BJP came in power, the incidents of crime against Dalit women in the country, especially in BJP-ruled states, have doubled.“Recently, a Dalit woman was raped and murdered in Hathras, Uttar Pradesh. The incident of rape and murder exposed the false claims of the Modi government of women upliftment, especially Dalits,” said Rawat.The Congress leader said that farmers in the country are struggling due to the false policies of the Union government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mahila-congress-protests-atrocities-against-dalits-women/story-N4JlXbYbbBa04kFA7iVGpJ.html
09-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra Governor expresses concern over Arnab Goswami’s health and security, draws criticism||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Monday expressed concerns over health and security of news anchor and editor-in-chief of Republic TV Arnab Goswami who has been arrested for allegedly abetting suicide. He spoke to the state home minister Anil Deshmukh asked him to allow Goswami to see his family. This has led to criticism from the ruling parties who said that the Governor should also show some sympathy for the family that has lost two lives.Deshmukh said that Goswami can speak to his family and lawyers on the phone as jail inmates are not allowed to meet anyone due to coronavirus pandemic, since last four months.A statement released by Raj Bhavan on Monday said, “Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari spoke to Maharashtra’s home minister Anil Deshmukh and conveyed to him his concern over the security and health of news anchor and editor-in-chief of Republic Media Network, Arnab Goswami. The Governor also asked the home minister to allow the family of Goswami to see him and to speak to him.”This is not the first time when the Governor has expressed his concern for Goswami to the state home minister. Earlier, he had conveyed his concern over the manner Goswami was arrested, the release states further.“I have received a call from the honorable Governor and he asked me to allow Goswami to meet his family. Goswami can speak to his family members and lawyers on phone with permission from jail authorities, but cannot meet them in person. To prevent the spread of Covid-19, jail authorities are not allowing anyone to enter in jails for the last four months,” the home minister said.Goswami was arrested on November 4 from his Lower Parel residence in connection with 2018’s abetment to suicide case of interior designer Anvay Naik, who, in his suicide note, had blamed Goswami and two others for his and his mother’s suicide.The Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) has been attacking Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government over Goswami’s arrest and said that it was an attack on democracy. Most of the senior BJP leaders including Union home minister Amit Shah has criticised the MVA government.When asked about politics on Goswami’s arrest, Deshmukh said everyone can see how BJP leaders right from Delhi to Mumbai are making comments on the matter. “For us the case is in the court. Both the sides are making their arguments. I won’t say much as the matter is subjudice,” said the home minister.Since November 4, Goswami was lodged at the primary school which has been converted into a Covid-19 facility. On Sunday, he was moved to a quarantine centre inside Taloja jail.Shiv Sena spokesperson Priyanka Chaturvedi asked the Governor not to show his biases openly. “No journalist or human being born in the country are above law and order. All the three accused in the case are behind the bars, but surprisingly no one is speaking for the other two. They (BJP) are making it political by showing support (to Goswami). It has nothing to do with journalism, it is about suicide due to non-payment,” she said.“The Governor should show some concern for a man who lost his life. It would be nice if the Governor did not show his biases to openly,” Chaturvedi added.Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said that the BJP is worried about Goswami as he was working for their agenda and the Governor should have concern for the Naik family as well. “It is unfortunate that the mentality of the Governor is similar to the BJP. He is the Governor of the state and should have concern for every person of the state including that of Naik family,” he said.Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) said that it would have been better if Koshyari had shown sympathy for the victim’s family. “The Naik family was struggling to get justice for months. It would have been better if the Governor had shown sympathy for them. Goswami is in jail and the responsibility of his safety is of the state government,” said minority affairs minister and NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-governor-expresses-concern-over-arnab-goswami-s-health-and-security-draws-criticism/story-x4EVcyYRJ8PDu2vdNV6eFL.html
09-11-2020||Chandigarh||Check quality of sweets before purchasing them: Ludhiana dist health officials||Consumer Rights Organisation (CRO), Ludhiana, and district health officials on Monday released a poster to create awareness among residents to cross-check the quality of sweets while purchasing them during the festive season. District health officer Rajesh Garg and civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga released the poster which was also handed over to Narinderpal Singh Lovely, president of the Punjab Halwayi Association. Ruchi Kaur Bawa, president of the district CRO, said the main purpose of the activity was to create awareness about best before tags, manufacturing and expiry dates; and FSSAI guidelines.“We also request home bakers, cloud kitchen servers and food chain owners to register themselves and mention dates on their packing for the benefit of consumers,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/check-sweets-before-purchasing-them-ludhiana-dist-health-officials/story-7hMWL6i1lesawkv2hU4xXL.html
09-11-2020||City||Couple held for drug peddling in Ludhiana||The anti-narcotics cell of police commissionerate, Ludhiana, arrested a couple for drug peddling and recovered 10gm heroin from their possession on Monday.The arrested accused have been identified as Baljit Singh, 30, of Giaspura and his wife Seema, 27.ASI Sukhwinder Singh said that the police have arrested the accused from Daba Lohara road during special checking. The accused were crossing from the area on a scooter when the police signaled them to stop for checking. On frisking, 10gm heroin was recovered from their possession.The ASI added that the accused Baljit Singh is a labourer, while his wife is a homemaker. They are into drug peddling for the past three months.A case under Sections 21B, 29, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act has been registered against them at Daba police station.Baljit Singh is already facing trial in a liquor smuggling case lodged against him at Model Town police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/couple-held-for-drug-peddling-in-ludhiana/story-VcFTjxbI1APDmzLL9fGBAO.html
09-11-2020||Chandigarh||Anti-begging drive in Ludhiana to start on Nov 11||With an aim to make Ludhiana a beggar-free city, the district administration and police commissionerate, Ludhiana, will be starting the “Beggar-free Ludhiana” drive in the city from November 11. Ashwani Kapoor, deputy commissioner of police (law and order), has been appointed the nodal officer of the drive.A meeting in this regard was held at Bachat Bhawan here on Monday and attended by deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, police commissioner Rakesh Kumar Agrawal and several other senior officials.Sharma said that a 15-day notice has already been given to all beggars in the city and from November 11 onwards, strict action will be taken against those breaking the rules.He said that 40 locations have been identified by the police where a large number of beggars can be seen. He added that the teams will rescue children involved in begging and rehabilitate them. Besides, those running begging rackets will be put behind bars, the police chief said.Appealing to residents to support the drive, the commissioner of police has asked them to refrain from giving alms or food to beggars and said this can result in strict penal action being taken against them.A Whats App number (9115601159) has also been released where residents can alert the police about the location of beggars. “We have chalked out a special plan to stop the problem. Beggars who have been living in the city for less than a year will be sent back to their native places. Those with disabilities will be shifted to shelter homes and minors will be shifted to child shelter homes. Others who are fit will be asked to earn their living by working,” Agrawal said.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Kumar Bagga, DCP traffic Sukhpal Singh Brar, ADCP Rupinder Kaur Sran, ACP command centre Mr Naveen Kumar and ACP traffic Gurdev Singh were also present on the occasion||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/anti-begging-drive-in-ludhiana-to-start-on-nov-11/story-Z0e6rVZhxmJD63dcpPAZAK.html
09-11-2020||City||Two killed, one injured as SUV rams auto in Chirag Delhi||Two persons were killed and another person was critically injured when a sport utility vehicle (SUV) rammed an auto-rickshaw under the Chirag Delhi Flyover, on the erstwhile BRT corridor in South Delhi on Sunday morning. While the auto driver died on the spot in the head-on collision, one of the other two occupants of the autorickshaw, which was on the wrong carriageway, died on Monday, police said. The driver of the SUV, a 51-year-old property dealer from Fatehpur Beri, has been arrested.According to the police, the Greater Kailash police station received a call on Sunday morning about an accident on the erstwhile BRT corridor. A police team reached the spot and found that a Land Cruiser Prado and autorickshaw were involved in the accident. The three-wheeler had three occupants -- 43-year-old Arun Sahu and Pankaj Kumar, 35, both residents of Panchsheel, and the driver Vinod Kumar, who lived in Jasola. All of them were rushed to different hospitals where the driver was pronounced dead while the other two were admitted for treatment, police said.Additional deputy commissioner of police (south) Parvinder Singh said while Vinod Kumar was declared dead at the AIIMS Trauma Centre, Pankaj Kumar was admitted there for treatment. “Sahu was admitted at Pushpawati Singhania Research Institute in Sheikh Sarai for treatment. On Monday morning, Pankaj succumbed to his injuries. Sahu continues to be under treatment,” Singh said.The families of all three were informed and the bodies of Vinod and Pankaj were sent for a post mortem examination. Police said both Pankaj and Sahu are labourers. A case of rash driving and causing death due to negligence was registered and the driver of the SUV, identified as Surender Sahlot, a resident of Fatehpur Beri, was arrested.“Initial probe suggested Sahlot was driving the SUV and was alone . He was not drunk. Sahlot told police he had left his house to meet someone in New Delhi area when the accident took place. He is a property dealer and runs an office from Vasant Kunj,” Singh said.Police are checking CCTV footage to establish the sequence of incidents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-killed-one-injured-as-suv-rams-auto-in-chirag-delhi/story-FQpjE9YuarVzkX4jLbPk7J.html
09-11-2020||City||Court rejects BJP leaders’ plea in defamation suit filed by AAP’s Imran Hussain||New Delhi: A Delhi court on Monday rejected the discharge applications of BJP legislators Vijender Gupta, Manjinder Singh Sirsa and Kapil Mishra in a defamation plea filed by Delhi environment minister Imran Hussain and asked them to appear before it on November 18. The three BJP leaders had accused Hussain of allegedly taking Rs 23 crore for giving permission to cut 16,000 trees for the redevelopment of government colonies in south Delhi.Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Harvinder Singh said notices need to be framed against all three for offences punishable under section 500 IPC (defamation) along with Section 34 (common intention) and directed them to remain present physically on the next date on November 18.“All three accused persons are directed through their counsels to remain present physically on next date. Put up for appearance of accused persons/putting notice to accused persons on November 18,” the judge said in its order.Hussain had said his reputation was lowered in society because of the use of such remarks by the respondents.Responding to the court order, Sirsa said, “We will abide by the court’s order.”Stating that they “abide by the court order”, Gupta said . “We have also approached the Delhi high court to get the case filed by Hussain quashed.”Kapil Mishra did not respond to requests for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/court-rejects-bjp-leaders-plea-in-defamation-suit-filed-by-aap-s-imran-hussain/story-LdebCa0nFbqYFOLKB3HcxM.html
09-11-2020||Mumbai||Body found in Kalwa creek in Thane||The body of a man in his 40s was found at the immersion ghat at Vitawa in Kalwa on Monday afternoon. Police have registered an accidental death report, while the investigation to establish the identity and cause of death of the person is underway. Kalwa police suspect that the man may have died by suicide, however, they have not recovered evidence of the same. The regional disaster management cell (RDMC) and fire brigade recovered the body and handed it over to Kalwa police station. “We have sent the body to Chhatrapati Shivaji Hospital in Kalwa for post mortem. We are yet to identity the deceased; once we do so, we will have a clear idea on cause of death,” said an officer from Kalwa police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/body-found-in-kalwa-creek-in-thane/story-fVvg4nopbD9ijima4cQqTM.html
09-11-2020||City||One held in Navi Mumbai for strangling Kalamboli man over ₹1,000||Four days after a 31-year-old man was strangled to death in a public garden in Kalamboli, police discovered that four men killed him over ₹1,000. Police have arrested a 20-year-old man on Sunday and are on the lookout for his accomplices. According to Kalamboli police, the arrested accused has been identified as Sasmesh Bhosale, a resident of Saibaba Nagar slum in Panvel. The victim Nagnath Male was staying in Pune where he worked as a daily-wage worker. Male had arrived in the city a few days ago to meet his sister, who lives in Kalamboli. He had planned to celebrate Diwali with her, police said. Late on Wednesday, Male left his sister’s house for a drink. He was drunk and went to a public garden, where the four men were already present. The accused group, including Bhosale, saw that Male was inebriated and allegedly decided to rob him. While police had initially ruled out robbery for lack of injury marks except the strangulation bruises on Male, during his interrogation, Bhosale revealed that they had killed him while robbing him. “Male had ₹1,000 on him. The accused tried to take the money from him but he resisted. After arguing with him, the men overpowered him and strangled him with a piece of cloth,” said an officer from Kalamboli police station. Police traced Bhosale to Panvel on Sunday and arrested him. He has been remanded in police custody till November 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/one-held-in-navi-mumbai-for-strangling-kalamboli-man-over-1-000/story-NmEOVPDI6XlSTNYruC4NCN.html
09-11-2020||Chandigarh||BJP stages protest againt Ludhiana MC over stray dog menace||BJP leaders and workers staged a protest outside the MC’s Zone D office on Monday over the stray dog menace in the city. BJP leader Vineet Monga and his supporters raised slogans against member of Parliament (MP) Ravneet Bittu who was conducting a meeting with MC officials at the office. The protest continued for around three hours.In February 2016, Bittu, cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and other Congress leaders and workers had staged a protest against the then SAD-BJP government for its failure to deal with the stray dog menace .Monga said that the state government has failed to follow the directions of Punjab and Haryana high court which had ordered that dog shelters be built outside the MC limits where strays will be shifted. Highlighting a recent incident where an eight-year-old boy was brutally attacked by stray dogs in Tajganj area, Monga said, “The boy was admitted to the hospital where he underwent a surgery. But, senior deputy mayor Sham Sundar Malhotra, who is the area councillor, claimed that MC can do nothing to shift the dogs. A large number of dog bite cases are still being reported at the civil hospital everyday. But, it seems that the civic body is not concerned about the problem. Even the dog sterilisation project is not being taken up properly in the city.”MP Ravneet Bittu said, “The MC is taking up dog sterilisation projects in the city and its capacity is also being increased. However, there have been anomalies in the project and it also came to a halt twice in the last two months due to exodus of labourers the amid pandemic. Authorities have been directed to streamline the project to bring some relief to residents.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bjp-stages-protest-againt-ludhiana-mc-over-stray-dog-menace/story-hsK3FvaeerLuPHuQK2ZvvL.html
09-11-2020||Chandigarh||Pre-primary students in Ludhiana dist to be tested remotely||As many as 35,600 students of pre-primary classes from government schools in the district will be evaluated via call or through video conferencing between November 18 to 21. Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Lalit Kishore Ghai, director of the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT), has instructed the district education officer (elementary) and block primary education officers that no student be asked to report to school to appear for the assessment and the testing be conducted remotely. The council will send list of questions to be asked a day before the exam. The teachers must inform parents regarding when the exam will be held so they are available to guide their wards and help them appear for the evaluation. As per guidelines, teachers have been directed to evaluate 15 students daily and coordinate with parents so that every child can appear. In the last eight months, PPTs related to social, moral and creative development of students have been sent to parents and teachers have explained basic concepts to the kids via virtual platforms. Teachers have also conducted activities where students narrated poems and stories online to improve their communication skills. For their creative development, students participated in a plethora of activities including drawing and clay modelling. District education officer (elementary), Rajinder Kaur, said: “Teachers had conducted meetings with parents last month and told them about the assessment exam. The teachers are also in touch with the students and regularly send them material to help them understand the concepts. Schools which have a large number of students in pre-primary classes will be helped by team members of “Parho Punjab Parhao Punjab” and buddy groups formed by the education department.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pre-primary-students-in-dist-to-be-tested-remotely/story-90Ne3tL97uWOHglwKIn6cM.html
09-11-2020||Chandigarh||Bhaag Singh Suhag is Chandigarh District Bar Association president||Advocate Bhaag Singh Suhag has been elected the president of District Bar Association, Chandigarh.Though the polling took place on Friday, the results were put on hold due to a stay imposed by the Punjab and Haryana high court. After the petition was withdrawn on Monday, counting of votes was conducted and results announced late at night.Suhag won the president’s post with 740 votes, defeating Munish K Dewan and Neeraj Hans. In all, 1,496 votes were polled.Ankit Gupta has been elected the vice-president with 630 votes, while the post of secretary went to Gagan Aggarwal with 738 votes. Gurvinder Kaur (987 votes) is the new joint secretary and Vikas Kumar (796 votes) is the treasurer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bhaag-singh-suhag-is-chandigarh-district-bar-association-president/story-mVIbpDLo5NakzVMMoCDsBI.html
09-11-2020||City||Aam Aadmi Party demands CBI inquiry into international drug smuggling case||Blaming the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Congress for drug menace in Punjab, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has sought a CBI inquiry into the case wherein the Special Task Force (STF) had nabbed four men, including a former sarpanch, with 5.39kg heroin, illegal weapons and high-end cars.The accused were arrested on November 6 and according to STF, these smugglers were a part of an international drug network.While addressing a press conference in the city on Monday, AAP MLA and president of the party’s youth wing, Aman Hayer alleged that the pictures of one of the accused, Gurdeep Singh Rano, a former sarpanch of Rano village in Payal area, with senior leaders of SAD and Congress including former deputy chief minister Sukhbir Badal, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s political advisor Sandeep Sandhu, OSD to CM Ankit Bansal and former cabinet minister Bikram Singh Majithia among others have surfaced in the last two days. A CBI inquiry should be conducted to trace all those involved in the international drug racket, he said.“Congress is hand-in-glove with SAD due to which strict action has not been taken against any worker who has been allegedly involved in cases pertaining to drug peddling in the past. A CBI inquiry should be marked in the case, which should be held under the supervision of Punjab and Haryana high court as a large number of senior SAD and Congress leaders are involved in drug peddling,” said Hayer.He added that his party MLAs will also raise the matter in the Vidhan Sabha and if needed they will also gherao the houses of ministers including Captain Amarinder Singh over the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aam-aadmi-party-demands-cbi-inquiry-into-international-drug-smuggling-case/story-t2GwLHOumhRY3gaqpM3Q5J.html
09-11-2020||City||Professor Ram Nath Sachdeva appointed Kurukshetra University vice-chancellor||Haryana government on Monday appointed professor Ram Nath Sachdeva as vice-chancellor (V-C) of Kurukshetra University.Professor Nath has replaced Nita Khanna, who was given additional charge of V-C after the term of KC Sharma expired in March this year.As per the orders, governor Satyadeo Narain Arya has appointed Ram Nath Sachdeva as the V-C for next three years. He was currently working as professor in the department of civil engineering at National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra.However, the development has necessitated major reshuffling in the university administration as Khanna will be registrar of the university in place of professor Bhagwan Singh Chaudhary, who was appointed officiating registrar in June this year.Brajesh Sawhney, director, public relations of KU said, “The new V-C will join the office on Tuesday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/professor-ram-nath-sachdeva-appointed-kurukshetra-university-vice-chancellor/story-tAz5uSbtXcQUBRl3RFngbM.html
09-11-2020||Chandigarh||0001 goes for ₹8 lakh in auction of vanity vehicle numbers in Chandigarh||The vehicle registration number 0001 received the highest bid of ₹8 lakh, against the reserve price of ₹50,000, in the e-auction of vanity numbers of the CH01CC series conducted by the Registration and Licensing Authority, Chandigarh, on Monday.The auction, which also included leftover numbers of previous series, fetched the department ₹71.32 lakh. As many as 266 people participated in it. This highest bid came from Satish Kumar Fogaat, a political activist associated with Jannayak Janta Party in Haryana and the director of a private school, who got the vanity number for his Toyota Fortuner SUV. So far, the highest bid for 0001 came in 2012, when a resident of Sector 44 bought it (CH01AP series) for ₹26.05 lakh for his S-class Mercedes Benz. Last year, CH01BZ-0001 went for ₹15.35 lakh. In the Monday auction, CH01CC-0009 fetched the second highest bid of ₹2.5 lakh while 0007 went for ₹2.29 lakh, both having reserve price of ₹30,000. The number 0005 was sold for ₹1.7 lakh, 0006 for ₹1.68 lakh, 0002 for ₹1.64 lakh, 0003 for ₹1.55 lakh and 0008 for ₹1.4 lakh. Meanwhile, 0004 fetched only ₹57,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/0001-goes-for-8-lakh-in-auction-of-vanity-vehicle-numbers-in-chandigarh/story-2lCAKh5Fy4rDhL91nAhFcI.html
09-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana’s power distribution companies incur Rs 37 crore loss due to windstorms||The windstorms have damaged 5,547 km long power supply lines and 71,185 electricity poles in last three years causing a loss of ₹37 crore to Haryana’s power distribution companies, as per official records. Now, the state power department is contacting Orissa and Andhra Pradesh governments to know about steps taken by them to protect poles and electricity lines from cyclonic storms every year, state power minister Ranjit Singh had informed the assembly last week during the two-day session. The power distribution companies (DISCOMs) are in touch with vendors and agencies which specialise in inspection and patrolling of EHV (extra high voltage) power lines through helicopters using light detecting and ranging (LIDAR). In this connection, a pilot project will be launched in the most vulnerable area soon. As per the detailed statement laid on the table of the House, though the towers have been designed to withstand wind speed up to 170 km per hour, it has been observed that when winds take shape of cyclone they create a whirlwind effect, leading to twisting and bending of the towers. The windstorms had damaged 31 towers (including seven in Mewat) and 8.75km power transmission line in nine districts causing ₹1.85 crore loss to Haryana Vidyut Prasaran Nigam Limited (HVPNL). As per the official data, the largest 8,669 poles and 627 km electricity supply line were damaged in Jind district between August 2017 and July 2020. In Karnal district, the windstorms damaged 4,892 poles and 423 km power lines while 5,576 power supply line poles were uprooted, damaging 106 km electricity lines, in Bhiwani district. The minimum 33km electricity line was damaged in last three years in Faridabad where 809 poles could not withstand the windstorms. According to the power minister, the department is taking various steps to prevent the losses caused due to the damage of poles and lines in windstorms. The preventive steps include bracing and belting of H-poles at every eighth pillar of the line to keep them safe from bending. Besides, wind stay is also being provided on every fourth pole while bracing is being provided for V-shape or horizontal cross arms to maintain proper line distance and prevent it from bending. Proper reaming of backfill is also being ensured while placing the pillars. The department has identified falling of trees on the power lines as one of the major reason for damage to the poles during windstorms. “To avoid such incidents, a drive has been launched to prune the branches of the trees twice a year,” said Ranjit Singh, while assuring to launch a survey to identify the lengthy span between the poles and tilted poles among others to strengthen the existing lines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-s-power-distribution-companies-incur-rs-37-crore-loss-due-to-windstorms/story-Pxr3Dm30VzRPFnsuhpltGM.html
09-11-2020||City||Auto driver killed in head-on collision with speeding car in Zirakpur||A 48-year-old auto driver was killed in a head-on collision with a car that was coming from the wrong side on Airport Road in Zirakpur on Monday. The victim has been identified as Dalbir Singh of Nabha Sahib village in Zirakpur.Police said he was on his way home when a speeding car on the wrong side of the road hit him in front of Utsav Grand Banquet. The victim was rushed to the civil hospital, where he was declared brought dead. He is survived by his wife and two children.The car driver, who fled, has been booked under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/auto-driver-killed-in-head-on-collision-with-speeding-car-in-zirakpur/story-Yy46jitsbzmR2a8mlfXvPP.html
09-11-2020||City||Counting of votes for Baroda bypoll tomorrow||The counting of votes for the Baroda bypoll in Haryana’s Sonepat will take place on Tuesday. The byelection for this assembly seat had taken place on November 3.Sonepat deputy commissioner Shyam Lal Punia said the counting of votes will start at 8:00am. “Six nakas have been established near the counting centre. Three-tier security will be deployed to ensure peaceful counting. The counting of ballots will be done till 8.30 am followed by counting of EVM votes. The Election commission of India had received a total of 438 postal ballots and 155 ballots of service voters. We urge people to stay at their home and avoid large gatherings in Gohana city,” the DC said.The Baroda assembly seat had recorded an overall turnout of 68% on November 3. There are 14 candidates in the fray from the constituency. The seat fell vacant in April following the death of Congress MLA Krishan Hooda, who had won it consecutively thrice in 2009, 2014 and 2019. While the BJP has fielded Olympian wrestler Yogeshwar Dutt, who lost by about 4,800 votes to Hooda in the 2019 assembly election, the Congress has put its money on a newcomer, Indu Raj Narwal, a former member of Sonepat zila parishad. Seven independents and four candidates belonging to other parties, including former Kurukshetra MP Raj Kumar Saini, who heads the Loktantra Suraksha Party, are also in the fray from the constituency.Anant Ram, retired professor of political science at Bhiwani Government College, said the bypoll is a challenge for Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda to save his bastion and similarly the results will reflect on performance of the BJP-JJP government.“A win here will underscore Hooda’s hold in the Deshwali belt and restore the Congress tally in the assembly to 31. However, the bypoll is significant for the BJP-JJP government as the outcome will reflect the performance of the government and mood of the voters towards the alliance partner,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/counting-of-votes-for-baroda-bypoll-tomorrow/story-BoQCZLCbQeVM04xIeDs8LI.html
09-11-2020||Chandigarh||Covid claims 3 more lives in Chandigarh, 115 test positive||For the second consecutive day, Covid-19 cases breached the 100 mark in Chandigarh, with 115 people testing positive on Monday.In the tricity, the daily count stood at 268, as Mohali reported 88 and Panchkula 65 cases.Meanwhile, three men, aged 82, 72, and 59, from Sectors 21, 46, and 63, respectively, succumbed to the infection in Chandigarh while Mohali recorded two deaths. In Chandigarh, 15,249 people have tested positive so far, of whom 14,110 have recovered, including 86 discharged on Monday, and 237 have died. Active cases are on the rise in the past one week and have reached 902.Mohali district’s tally has climbed to 12,985 and the toll to 248. Among 88 fresh cases, 85 surfaced in Mohali city alone.Meanwhile, 35 patients were discharged, taking the number of those cured to 11,990 and active cases to 747.Panchkula’s toll stands at 117 with no casualty reported on Monday. Among the 65 new cases, four are of health workers and 52 surfaced in Panchkula city alone. As many as 7,574 people, including 153 health workers, have tested positive in the district so far, and 7,064 have recovered. There are 393 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-claims-3-more-lives-in-chandigarh-115-test-positive/story-KLGZv8sE2WDCVp4ZH1XbVP.html
09-11-2020||City||Delhi govt’s budget prep begins, focus likely on health care||New Delhi: The Delhi government has started preparations for the 2021-22 budget and directed the finance and planning departments to issue circulars, seeking revised estimates for the financial year 2020-21 and budget estimates for 2021-22 from all departments, a senior government official said.“Most departments have prepared their own reports on revised estimates (2020-21) and budget estimates (2021-22). They will be summarised in a day or two. Departments have been told that the first meeting on the budget is likely to happen later this week,” said the official.In the 2021-22 budget, the official said, the government plan to increase allocation on health care, in the light of the Covid-19 pandemic, which threw open new challenges for the sector. Allocation on infrastructure projects and new welfare schemes are likely to witness a dip, the official said.The budget outlay for 2020-21 was proposed by the Delhi government at Rs 65,000 crore, which is around 8.33% higher than the previous financial year’s outlay. The proposed outlay includes Rs 48,070.47 crore for revenue expenditure and ₹16,929.53 crore for capital expenditure.The highest allocation was on education at Rs 15,815 crore. Health care received the second-highest allocation in the 2020-21 budget at Rs 7,704 crore, with a special allocation of Rs 50 crore for adequate quarantine facilities to fight Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-s-budget-prep-begins-focus-likely-on-health-care/story-TBIQ8nZaLYcBwI7rDYIVtK.html
09-11-2020||City||Accountant killed and robbed on Delhi road last week was stabbed 28 times; three suspects held||New Delhi: The fatal attack on a 30-year-old accountant who was robbed and stabbed to death in West Delhi’s Moti Nagar last week was planned by a sacked employee of the firm where the victim worked, as an act of revenge, police said after arresting three suspects for the murder.Investigating the robbery-cum-murder near the Zakhira Flyover, the police said the victim, Jitender Sharma, who fought back his attackers, was stabbed 28 times. While a total of R2.13 lakh was robbed, the police have so far recovered R15,000 cash from the suspects and a motorcycle stolen four days before the murder.The arrested men are the alleged main conspirator Kuldeep Panwar, 30, and his two associates -- both are named Rajesh, both are 26 years old and residents of Shahbad Dairy. The accountant worked for two private transport companies in North Delhi’s Azadpur. Panwar was a driver in one of those companies. “Panwar has fired from the company sometime ago for unsatisfactory work. Panwar believed he was sacked unfairly,” said PK Mishra, deputy commissioner of police (Rohini). “Panwar wanted to seek revenge on the company owner. So he roped in the two Rajeshs and two other men to rob Sharma who he knew as a frequent carrier of cash of the company where Panwar worked,” Mishra said. Panwar decided to stay away from the actual robbery to avoid being identified, the DCP said. “On November 3, Panwar informed his associates that Sharma would be carrying R10-15 lakh cash. The robbers intercepted Sharma around 10 pm while he was riding his motorcycle with R2.13 lakh in cash,” said Mishra. During the robbery, Sharma resisted the attempt and was stabbed 28 times, the DCP said on the basis in the autopsy report. While the West district police continued the probe, it was the Rohini district that ended up with a breakthrough. “There were some pending robbery cases in our area. While investigating them, we received a tip-off about two suspected robbers in Rithala. Early Sunday, we arrested two men riding a stolen motorcycle,” Mishra said. The two men, both named Rajesh, led the police to the alleged mastermind, Panwar. A search is on for the remaining two suspects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/accountant-killed-and-robbed-on-delhi-road-last-week-was-stabbed-28-times-three-suspects-held/story-VKseh4LYBwzzOhiky54AgP.html
09-11-2020||Chandigarh||Dark days for sellers of Diwali lights, diyas in Chandigarh as demand drops 50%||Even though Diwali is just a few days away, sellers of string lights and diyas are facing dark days because of the Covid-19 pandemic, complaining that demand has dropped by 50% when compared to the previous years. A firecracker ban by the administration is also not helping, they say.Interestingly, buyers have been asking about the origin of the fancy lights and not picking up products made in China.Electrical shops selling string lights are empty, except for the Sector 18 Electronics Market, with RP Gupta, chairman of the sector’s Market Dealer Association saying, “This year we have barely managed to sell 50% of our stock compared to sales in previous years. Fancy lights are not selling and even though there are a few days left for Diwali, the footfall in the markets and the response of the shopkeepers have been discouraging.”Many shopkeepers in other sectors have skipped the annual ritual of stringing up lights outside. Gurpreet Singh, proprietor of an electronics shop in Sector 35, said, “We have not received a single enquiry about Diwali lights, which is why the entire stock hasn’t been unpacked. Due to the pandemic, people’s spending power has been impacted. Many families are making do with what they bought last year.”The China effect Although it is not very pronounced, shopkeepers have also reported that people are refusing to buy Chinese products.Confirming this, RP Gupta says unlike previous years, shopkeepers have been stocking the comparatively more expensive India made lights, which are selling faster than the Chinese ones.Rajwinder Singh, who also runs a shop in Sector 18, adds that there has been a shift away from the China made lights, but not necessarily for patriotic reasons. “Today brands of repute such as Philips have started making fancy decoration lights for Diwali which are more durable and people are willing to shell a few extra bucks to get them instead of the Chinese products that develop faults quickly.”Simple designs, fewer buyersDiyas too have no takers. “A year ago we were making pillars of diyas and other works of art, but now we are stocking diyas with simple designs,” says Vinod Kumar, the president of the potters group which sells its wares in Sector 24.All hope was not lost, however, as he added that an order had come in for a three-foot diya pillar from Sector 15 that would cost Rs900.Laxmi of Jagatpura, who has been selling diyas in Sector 46 for the past 15 years, says this year will be tough for her. “These are difficult times. Everyone knows someone close to them who has been affected because of Covid. The festive spirit is lacking in the markets, due to which our diyas are also not selling.”Laxmi failed to sell a single diya on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dark-days-for-sellers-of-diwali-lights-diyas-as-demand-drops-50/story-JWldY97p5TnClibu1eYMHJ.html
09-11-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana gangster, two aides held for firing outside Chandigarh nightclub||After nearly a month, Chandigarh Police on Monday arrested a Ludhiana gangster and his two aides, including a juvenile, for opening fire outside a nightclub in Sector 9 that left a TikTok content creator injured on the night of October 11. Those arrested have been identified as gangster Sagar Newton and Movish Bains, both 22, besides the 17-year-old juvenile. Police had made the first breakthrough in the case on October 26, when co-accused Sukhdeep, aka Sukhi, 21, also of Ludhiana, was apprehended at a naka in Chandigarh.Sagar was the one who fired at Saurav Gujjar, 25, of Zirakpur after an argument at Eskobar, said police. Police had set up a naka near the Kaimbwala T-point after getting a tip-off that the accused were coming to Chandigarh via the forest road in the village. As they reached the naka, Saurav identified them, following which cops approached the vehicle. Sagar allegedly pulled out a .32 bore pistol and tried to shoot at the cops. However, he was overpowered and the pistol along with three live cartridges were seized. While Sagar and Movish will be produced in court on Tuesday, the third accomplice has been sent to a juvenile home.Past crimesPolice said Sagar is a gangster, active in extortion activities in and around Ludhiana. A matriculate, he is involved in several heinous crimes including murder and has seven cases registered against him.Movish has completed first year of BA and has been booked twice, including for attempt to murder, in Ludhiana. During preliminary questioning, the accused have allegedly claimed to have more arms and ammunition, which are in possession of their aides Vijay and Raja, also of Ludhiana. In order to recover these weapons, police will be seeking their remand in court on Tuesday. What happened on Oct 11According to police, the four accused and a girl had gathered at Eskobar at 9:30pm on October 11 to celebrate the juvenile’s birthday.Saurav Gujjar along with his friends Akash and Kunal were also there, sitting on another table. Both Sagar and Saurav were on the dance floor, when they entered into an argument over throwing of currency notes. Sagar slapped Saurav and a scuffle ensued. When Saurav came out of the nightclub, Sagar allegedly followed him and shot at him before fleeing. In all three shots were fired. Saurav was left with a bullet wound in his right thigh. A case of attempt to murder under Section 307 of the Indian Penal Code besides under the Arms Act was registered at the police station in Sector 3. Dilpreet Dhahan’s police remand extended In another shooting case, the district court on Monday extended the police remand of gangster Dilpreet Singh Dhahan, alias Baba, by three days. Dilpreet was brought to Chandigarh from the Ropar jail on production warrants on November 6, and was sent to three-day police remand till November 9. Chandigarh Police are quizzing him for his alleged role in the murder of Gurlal Brar, an aide of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi. Dilpreet is a key member of the Bambiha gang that has claimed responsibility for the murder. Brar was gunned down outside a mall in the Industrial Area while he was waiting for his friends in his SUV on the night of October 10.Shooting spree in the cityOctober 25: A 48-year-old man, who works as a lab technician for the Punjab health department in Kharar, shot in his right leg by unidentified assailants outside his house in Sector 22 October 19: A trader was injured after two gangsters walked into his shop in Sector 25 and fired at him due to what police called was an old rivalry October 11: Gangster Sagar Newton fires three shots outside Eskobar in Sector 9, leaving a TikTok star injured, after a brawlOctober 11: Gangster Lawrence Bishnoi’s aide Monty Shah fires a shot to intimidate witnesses in the Sonu Shah muder case outside their office in BurailOctober 10: Gangster Lawrence Bishnoi’s close aide and former student leader Gurlal Brar shot dead owing to gang rivalry outside a mall in the Industrial Area, Phase 1||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-gangster-two-aides-held-for-firing-outside-chandigarh-nightclub/story-okTDWY6d4OkYE6J2qpLZSI.html
09-11-2020||City||Man lynched on suspicion of burglary in northwest Delhi, two held||New Delhi: A 21-year-old man was beaten to death, allegedly by a group of seven people, on suspicion of attempting to burgle a house in the Shaheed Sukhdev Nagar slums in northwest Delhi’s Wazirpur early Sunday, police said. After allegedly killing the man, Mohammad Feroz, the attackers moved his body around 300 metres from the crime spot on a pushcart and left it on a footpath to make it look like a case of road accident, police said. The murder came to light when police traced Feroz’s friend Lal Babu, who was with him during the alleged burglary attempt, and he revealed the entire sequence of events. Two persons, including the owner of the house where the man had allegedly entered, were arrested on Monday. The police were conducting raids to arrested the other suspects. The arrested persons were identified as Brinda Yadav,33, and his neighbour Ravi Singh,36, deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Vijayanta Arya said. DCP Arya said that around 8 am on Sunday, a passerby found a man’s body in the Wazirpur industrial area and informed the police. A police team found multiple injury marks on the head and other parts of the man’s body. The dead man was identified as Mohammad Feroz, a resident of Udham Singh Park, which is not far from the spot where his body was discovered. A murder case was registered at the Ashok Vihar police station and teams were formed to probe the case, police officers associated with the case said. The police met Feroz’s family members who said he had left home after dinner on Saturday night and said he would return in a while. His family learnt about his murder through locals and the police on Sunday morning. During the probe, the police learnt Feroz was last seen on Saturday night with his friend Lal Babu. Babu, who was picked up for questioning, told police that he and Feroz had gone to the Shaheed Sukhdev Nagar slums to commit a burglary, DCP Arya said. “Feroz climbed the first floor flat of a building while Babu stayed downstairs to guard. When the flat owner, Brinda Yadav, woke up and raised an alarm, Feroz tried to escape and fell off down. Yadav and some locals caught him while Babu managed to flee,” she said. Police said Yadav and his six neighbours bashed Feroz with sticks and blows until he died. They moved his body some 300 metres on a pushcart and left it on a footpath, assuming police may consider it a case of hit-and-run. “The attackers were unaware Babu was also there with Feroz. Babu took us to the spot where Feroz was thrashed and killed. We interrogated the house owner and his neighbour Ravi Singh. They admitted to the crime and we arrested them,” said an investigator, who did not want to be named. Yadav runs a grocery shop in the neighbourhood while Singh is a factory worker, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-lynched-on-suspicion-of-burglary-in-northwest-delhi-two-held/story-bHlCabkdVtza0HqBZRLBSI.html
09-11-2020||Chandigarh||Stay safe, chance of Covid surge during Diwali, winter: PGIMER||There’s a real chance of a spike in Covid-19 cases in the festive season, with Diwali and the winter months arriving soon and increased pollution levels because of stubble burning, cautions Dr Jagat Ram, director, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER).In a note issued on Monday, Prof Jagat Ram, asked people to continue following the Covid protocols to ensure low infection rates. “Basis the studies on other respiratory viruses like SARS, influenza, etc. which show seasonal variance with cases spiking in winters, there is a possibility that the coronavirus infections might also rise in the coming months. Furthermore, low humidity promotes evaporation of viral particles and aerosol formations, which can increase the airborne spread of the disease.”Prof Jagat Ram explained that pollution level rose in winter as the cold air was dense and moved sluggishly. “Particulate matter is lethal for respiratory health as it enters the alveoli in lungs and damages them, compromising respiratory health. Under these circumstances, if one contracts Covid, it’s likely to be more severe.Alveoli are tiny air sacs in the lungs that take up the oxygen one breathes. “With the festival of lights just being a few days away, people are already in the festive spirit and are far less vigilant. With mask use down and mobility up, we are definitely contributing to accelerate the rise in cases,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/stay-safe-chance-of-covid-surge-during-diwali-winter-pgimer/story-hCp5B7q7fU3qVqewQPsakO.html
09-11-2020||City||Thick blanket of smog shrouds Haryana, AQI in 10 cities ‘severe’||A thick blanket of smog shrouded parts of Haryana on Monday even as the air quality index (AQI) of 10 cities was recorded ‘severe’, as per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).As per the CPCB, the AQI of Daruhera was 491 followed by Manesar (483), Gurugram (482), Hisar (480), Rohtak (473), Jind (464), Charkhi Dadri (473), Bhiwani (444), Sonepat (417). The air quality of five cities—Kaithal, Panipat, Kurukshetra, Palwal and Yamunanagar—was categorised as ‘very poor’ with AQI levels between 300 to 400. Residents of three cities—Ambala, Karnal and Panchkula— were exposed to ‘poor’ air with AQI levels between 200 to 300.AQI between 0 to 50 is considered good, 51 to 100 satisfactory, and 101 to 200 moderate. However, AQI between 201 to 300 is classified poor, 301 to 400 very poor and it crosses over to the severe zone at 401. “Poor air quality with poisonous gases can irritate the eyes, nose and throat and may create problems for those suffering from Asthma and other respiratory conditions,” said Dr Shailnder Mamgai, medical superintendent at LNJP government hospital, Kurukshetra.Farm fires cross 7,700-markThe stubble burning incidents also continued to rise in the state as the number of active fire locations (AFLs) crossed the 7,700-mark on Monday.With 358 fresh farm fires, the number of AFls in the state have risen to 7,712.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thick-blanket-of-smog-shrouds-haryana-aqi-in-10-cities-severe/story-TvLYT8I3VJN9XKLzzMgbAJ.html
09-11-2020||Chandigarh||Despite objections by ex councillors, Punjab govt notifies 50 Mohali MC ward list after delimitation||With the Mohali municipal corporation (MC) elections likely to be scheduled next month, the local bodies department of Punjab on Monday notified a list of 50 wards after delimitation – against which objections had been raised by the former councillors of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Former SAD councillor Parvinder Singh Sohana said it was “complete dictatorship” by the Congress and that they will move the Punjab and Haryana high court against the notification.The aggrieved parties had filed 41 objections against the delimitation with the local bodies department.They had also filed a plea against the move at the Punjab and Haryana high court, which had sought a response from the Punjab government by January 6. “We will request the high court to bring forward the hearing,” Sohana said. The director, local bodies, has stated that the objections carry no weight as the delimitation exercise has been carried out in accordance to the rules and regulations of the state. 25 seats for womenThe notification also factors in 50% reservation for women, including SC/ST and OBC classes and divided into 23 wards for general category (women) and two for reserved category (women). Last time, the wards were divided in a ratio of 17:2 for women in the general and reserved categories..Though the placement of wards is somewhat like the last elections, the candidature has been changed. Earlier, ward number 1 with parts of Phase VI, 1 and 2 was in the open general category, whereas this time it has been reserved for a woman candidate (general category).Ward numbers 39 and 43, which were earlier reserved for women (general category) have this time been kept for women in the reserved category with ward number 49.In the 50 ward house, wards 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, 23, 25, 27, 29, 31, 33, 35, 37, 41, 43, 45 and 47 are reserved for women (general category) whereas even numbered ones are for general (open) category. In the last elections, wards 3, 4, 7, 10, 13, 16, 18, 19, 22, 26, 29, 31, 34, 37, 39, 40, 43, 46, and 48 were reserved for women. Not made members of boardEarlier the former SAD and BJP councillors, in their objections before the local bodies, had alleged that the mayor, senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor were not made members of the board carrying out the delimitation exercise and no elected councillor associated with it as mandated. The only two nominated members on the board, one of them facing trial in a murder case were affiliated to the Congress party, which rules the state. The SAD and BJP councillors said 70% seats held by them in the previous MC house had been demarcated again or changed in a way that impacted them negatively.The five-year term of the house ended on April 26 this year.About 1.87 lakh people are expected to vote in the MC elections, of which 25,000 belong to the scheduled caste (SC) category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/despite-objections-by-ex-councillors-punjab-govt-notifies-50-mohali-mc-ward-list-after-delimitation/story-PxPgEkPTgOUbWDzpl2j2rJ.html
09-11-2020||Chandigarh||Surge in Covid cases continues for second week in Haryana||The surge in coronavirus infection in Haryana continued for the second successive week with the state reporting 3,348 more cases last week (November 2 to 8) as compared to the week before. About 2,300 more infections were reported during the October 26- November 1 week as compared to earlier week.Health officials said the increase in virus infection was expected during the festival season. “People have thrown caution to the wind during the festivities. The resumption of several new activities like the opening of schools, colleges, cinemas, multiplexes, entertainment parks has also resulted in more intermingling of crowds,’’ a health official said.After a four-week period of decline in infection, the state had reported 10,576 fresh cases between October 26- November 1. The numbers soared to 13,924 last week.Challans for not wearing masks declineThe data pertaining to challans issued by authorities for not wearing masks also showed a steep decline in the number of challans since October. While about 32,000 violators were challaned in September, the number came down to about 6,100 in October. “ The decline from 32,000 to 6,100 indicates that even authorities have become slack in enforcing Covid norms,’’ an official said.RTPCR sampling goes down, RAT upAfter stepping up the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests by about 16,500 and reducing the rapid antigen tests (RAT) significantly two weeks ago, the health department last week drastically reduced the RT-PCR testing by 15,895. The department instead increased the RAT by 15,459. A total of 1,53,221 RT-PCR and RAT tests were conducted last week as compared to 1,53,657 the week earlier.Delhi border districts, Hisar worst-hit The national capital region districts abutting the capital are worst affected. Gurugram has the highest active cases, accounting for about 31% of the total active cases in the state followed by Faridabad which has about 12% active cases and Rohtak 7%. Hisar, which does not share its borders with Delhi but is a commercial hub, has about 11.39% active cases.68% active cases in home isolationStatistics show that 11,227 active cases out of total 16,448 (till November 8) were in home isolation, which accounts for about 68% active patients. “ A total of 1,18,064 patients had completed home isolation successfully and 2,928 patients were referred to a Covid facility from home isolation,’’ an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/surge-in-covid-cases-continues-for-second-week-in-haryana/story-ZatzfxbYvqgAAygpFk22zN.html
09-11-2020||Chandigarh||Maur Mandi blasts: HC seeks status report from Punjab Police||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday sought a status report of the probe in the 2017 Maur Mandi blasts case.The HC acted on a plea by one Gurjeet Singh Patran, who had alleged contempt of court by the Punjab Police and has named Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta and ADGP (lawn and order) Ishwar Singh, who is head of the SIT in the case, besides other SIT members.The twin blasts occurred on January 31 ahead of the February 4 Punjab assembly elections in 2017. Seven persons were killed and 25 had sustained injuries in the blasts. The SIT had filed its report before a trial court on January 29, 2020.However, on September 17, dissatisfied over the probe, the high court had given two-weeks time for arrest of the main accused.The September 17 order was passed on plea of Patran, who is demanding that the probe be handed over to the National Investigating Agency or the Central Bureau of Investigation. He alleges that ever since the names of some Dera Sacha Sauda followers have cropped up in the case, the probe has slowed down.In the fresh plea, he said that the high court orders of September 25, 2018, January 30, 2020 and September 17, 2020 have been violated by the police.The SIT has not made any tangible progress and has failed to arrest anyone till date.Moreover, Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh has neither been questioned nor arrested, he said, demanding that the officials concerned be summoned and punished for wilful contempt of court.The vehicle used in the blasts was assembled in a workshop of Dera Sacha Sauda in Sirsa and two of the identified accused are said to be close associates of Ram Rahim, who is undergoing a jail term in two rape cases in Haryana.“Punjab government is responsible for deterioration of evidence due to delay in investigation in the case and by not referring the matter to NIA or CBI in time. It has failed to investigate the case, discover the conspiracy behind the blasts, and arrest even a single accused,” he said, adding that the ruling party is behind the inefficiency of Punjab Police.The plea was filed in May 2018 and was disposed of by the HC in September 2018 with the court expressing its satisfaction with the probe.But in December 2018, Patran had approached the HC again, stating that the main accused has still not been arrested. This plea too was disposed of on September 17, with the court asking the SIT to arrest he main accused within two weeks. But the SIT has failed to make any arrests so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/maur-mandi-blasts-hc-seeks-status-report-from-punjab-police/story-WZWJ8oob5dT7hhUz43ELMN.html
09-11-2020||Chandigarh||Restore full OPDs after Diwali, Badnore directs Chandigarh hospitals||UT administrator VP Singh Badnore directed hospitals in the city to fully open out patient departments (OPDs) after Diwali, an official release said on Monday.The directions were passed during the Covid-19 review meeting of civil and health authorities held here.Services were restricted after tertiary care institutes such as the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research and Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, resumed OPD services after eight months in October and November. Only a few patients were given appointments and others consulted doctors online or by phone.Fifty patients per department get appointments in a day at the Government Multi-Speciality Hospital, Sector 16. Badnore appealed to the residents to take precautions and strictly follow the Covid-19 protocol during Diwali celebrations, in view of the rising number of cases. Prof Jagat Ram, director PGIMER, said at the meeting that during the last week, 1,062 patients were provided physical medical treatment in the OPDs. He added that every Diwali, nearly 50 patients lost their eyesight or were injured due to cracker related accidents and hence the ban on crackers was beneficial. The administrator also directed Mandip Brar, deputy commissioner, to return the deposits taken from traders for draw of lots for allocating stalls for the sale of crackers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/open-opds-fully-after-diwali-badnore-directs-chandigarh-hospitals/story-VwlST433XjfuBdQyRf4jHO.html
09-11-2020||Delhi||‘Need to strictly enforce laws to minimise air pollution’: Air quality management panel||As Delhi’s air quality remained “severe” for the fifth consecutive day on Monday, the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) said there was an immediate need to strictly enforce standard operating procedures (SOPs) such as minimising the use of personal transport and restricting unnecessary travel to minimise pollution.“We need to strictly enforce existing laws, guidelines, SOPs to minimize air pollution on an emergency basis and minimise the use of personal transport and restrict travel unless absolutely necessary,” the commission said, according to news agency PTI.Also Read: To draw a ‘balance,’ Haryana allows bursting of firecrackers for 2 hours on DiwaliThere was also a need to encourage coal-using industries in the National Capital Region (NCR) to minimise the use of coal in the upcoming months, it added. The National Green Tribunal (NGT), in an attempt to stop the region’s air quality from falling further, has imposed a total ban on the sale or use of firecrackers in the NCR from November 9 midnight to November 30 midnight. “Celebration by crackers is for happiness and not to celebrate deaths and diseases,” NGT said in its order that came days before Diwali, the festival of light.Also Read: In India, polluted air spells trouble for virus patientsMeanwhile, VK Soni, the head of the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD’s) environment research centre, ruled out the chance of a major improvement in Delhi and the National Capital Region’s (NCR’s) air quality in the coming days. “The air quality is likely to be recorded in the upper end of the ‘very poor’ category on Diwali if we discount firecrackers emissions. If people burst crackers, pollution levels can increase to ‘severe’ to ‘severe plus’ category (emergency),” Soni said.The ordinance of the central government to set up CAQM, replacing the Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority, or Epca, as the primary body responsible for addressing the air pollution crisis, came into effect last month.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/need-to-strictly-enforce-laws-to-minimise-air-pollution-air-quality-management-panel/story-nphe4WpzQvom7oUzrsthlJ.html
09-11-2020||Bangalore||Former Karnataka minister’s son arrested in drug case from Goa||The Central Crime Branch police of Bengaluru has arrested Darshan Lamani, the son of senior Congress leader and former minister of textiles and Muzrai department, Rudrappa Lamani, from Goa in a drug case.Recently the police had arrested another person named Sujay for buying 500 grams of hydro-ganja on the darknet using bitcoins. However, two other accused in the case, Hemant and Suneesh had managed to escape. The police traced them to Goa where the accused were allegedly being sheltered by Darshan Lamani.A CCB team went to Goa and arrested all the three and their role in the drug racket is being probed, according to Sandeep Patil, joint commissioner of police.Also Read: BigBasket faces potential data breach; details of 2 crore users put on sale on dark web“We cannot disclose further details as we are interrogating them at this time,” another CCB official who did not want to be identified told HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/former-karnataka-minister-s-son-arrested-in-drug-case-from-goa/story-Ddsc96nUHuol7JmwzaPuZJ.html
09-11-2020||Pune||October 2020 records warmest nights in the last 50 years||The month of October 2020 recorded the warmest nights in the last fifty years, according to a monthly weather review released by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on November 5. The average minimum temperature recorded in India in October 2020 was 21.9 degrees Celsius. According to the report, October 2020 was also the third warmest since 1971 with a mean temperature of 27 degrees Celsius. The last highest night temperature was recorded in 2015 followed by 2017 for the same period, the report stated. The report specifically highlighted the characteristics of temperatures of October 2020 stating that it is the transitional month of temperature when the variation of both maximum and minimum temperature is monitored for providing guidance to various users. The mean minimum, maximum and average temperature for the country as a whole during October 2020 was 21.90 degrees Celsius, 32.0 degrees Celsius and 27.0 degrees Celsius respectively. IMD chief Anupam Kashyapi chose not to comment on the report. The IMD has prepared the report for analysis of temperatures. The mean minimum, maximum and average temperature over Northwest India as a whole during the same period was 16.43 degrees Celsius, 31.07 degrees Celsius and 24.15 degrees Celsius respectively. Although all India average minimum temperature was on a record high, however in Northwest India, the temperature was below normal. However, the national capital region and adjoining areas of Haryana, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan recorded lower temperature during the same period. Temperatures records over New Delhi (Safdarjung) for the month of October 2020 and comparison with data since 1951 shows that it recorded the lowest monthly mean minimum temperature (MMT) during October 2020 (17.2 º C) after October 1962 (16.9 º C).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/october-2020-records-warmest-nights-in-the-last-50-years/story-oU6uRQBqnQMhHRwfdsT66O.html
09-11-2020||Pune||PCMC crime branch solves eight ATM thefts, recovers cash and gold receipts of Rs 72 lakh||The Pimpri-Chinchwad police have solved as many as eight ATM theft cases in the area and arrested eight accused in the case. The crime branch sleuths have recovered a cash of Rs 72 lakh from their possession and property documents worth Rs 22 lakh from them. The crime branch detected the ATM thefts while investigating an ATM theft case which took place on September 29 in Maulinagar in Wadmukhwadi where four ATMs of a government bank were burgled and cash was stolen by unidentified thieves early in the morning. On the direction of additional commissioner (crime), two teams were formed under senior police inspector Shankar Babar to detect the crime. The police arrested two accused identified as Manoj Uttam Suryavanshi, (30), a resident of Pimpri and Kiran Bhanudas Kolte (35), a resident of Jalgaon and recovered stolen cash estimated to be worth Rs 66 lakh from their possession. The duo during custodial interrogation revealed the names of other six accused who were subsequently placed under arrested. The six accused have been identified as Mahesh Anand Deonikar, (35), a resident of Udgir, Sagar Popatrao Taware (31), a resident of Baramati, Tushar Pundalik Chandgude (21), a resident of Morgaon in Baramati, Shankar Balasaheb Gaikwad, (31), a resident of Purandar and Ashish alias Sonya Bhalerao, ( 22), a resident of Chinchwad. The accused during their police remand said that they had bought gold from stolen cash and kept it with a private gold finance company. The police have recovered receipts of the remainder Rs 6 lakh from their possession taking the aggregate seizure to the tune of Rs 72 lakh. Additional commissioner of police Ramanath Pokale said that the accused tampered with the machine while it was in default mode and carried out their crime after they stuck a black ribbon strip over the CCTV camera. “We have registered a case under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and an in-depth investigation is being carried out in connection with the case,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pcmc-crime-branch-solves-eight-atm-thefts-recovers-cash-and-gold-receipts-of-rs-72-lakh/story-gEuzpcwdYj7N5X8IS8fIMM.html
09-11-2020||City||Farmers continue protest at railway station parking in Sangrur, Barnala||Sangrur/Patiala Amid continued suspension of goods trains in Punjab, members of 29 farmer unions staged a dharna at parking of Sangrur and Barnala railway stations on Monday. This dharna was started on November 7. Farmers claimed that they will allow only goods trains in the state, but will oppose passenger trains. Activists of Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan), however, protested outside the residence of BJP leaders and toll plazas in Sangrur and Barnala.“Protests are being continued at the railway station parkings as farmers want service of goods trains in Punjab. The Modi government is, however, showing its anti-farmer face by not allowing these trains in the state,” said Bhupinder Longowal, state committee member, Kirti Kisan Union.“Farmer unions have shifted protests from railway track to railway platforms and from the platform to parking. However, we will not allow passenger trains till the repeal of these black laws,” added Longowal.After shifting their dharnas from railway track on the 22th day of rail roko agitation, farmers have been holding protests inside the railway premises in these districts. However, during these protests, they also held demonstrations in markets, but continued dharnas inside the railway premises.“We are preparing for a protest in Delhi on November 26-27, with a large number of farmers and labourers. The Centre’s agriculture laws are not just anti-farmers, these black laws will damage the business of small traders and shopkeepers as well,” he added.‘RAILWAYS HAVE STOPPED GOODS TRAIN UNNECESSARILY’Farmers have cleared the rail tracks, but have occupied the parking lot outside railway station in Patiala’s Shambu situated on Punjab-Haryana interstate border. Railways, however, is insisting that protests must be lifted from the railway track and other properties as well. Jagmohan Singh, general secretary, BKU (Dakaunda) said, “The railways have stopped the movement of trains unnecessarily, and is coming up with new conditions for resuming service. Farmers have already cleared tracks and platforms and protesting outside premises of railway stations,” he said, adding their protests would continue on railway station premises. “We have clarified to the government that only movement of goods trains will be allowed. Farmers will not allow movement of passenger trains,” he said.A faction of BKU (Ugarahan) cleared tracks leading to the Nabha thermal plant in Rajpura and have shifted their protest opposite the main gate of the plant building.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-continue-protest-at-railway-station-parking-in-sangrur-barnala/story-VuqYTSSTo2wKrdPfsMGG1L.html
09-11-2020||Dehradun||Rs 700 crore worth international project to transform 3000 Uttarakhand schools||Uttarakhand government will start work on wholesome development of 3,000 schools in the state with the aim to enhance the quality of education. Mukul Kumar Sati, additional state project director for Samagra Sikhsha Abhiyan, said, “As part of a new project, Asian Development Bank has selected five states in the country including Uttarakhand, for enhancement of quality of education. Under this project, the focus will be on wholesome development of around 3,000 schools. We will be developing 380 Leader Schools also through this project.” He said the project will work to improve digital learning, smart classes and activities, personality and skill development for students, special training of teachers, career guidance for students among other such facilities. The project will first start in five districts of Dehradun, Haridwar, Almora, Pauri Garhwal and US Nagar. Speaking on infrastructural development, Sati said, “The schools that will be developed as Leader Schools will see infrastructural development. These include 190 secondary and elementary schools each from all blocks of the state. We are first focusing on five districts which include two aspirational districts of the state (Haridwar and US Nagar), two hilly districts which are the largest in the area and have reported maximum migration (Almora and Pauri Garhwal) and the state capital district.” Also Read: Uttarakhand CM launches free Wi-Fi service for govt colleges, universitiesOfficials informed that as part of the project, the state is likely to receive an amount of Rs 700 crores over a period of five years, starting next year. Uttarakhand government is already working towards starting two English medium schools in every block of the state, named as Atal Model Schools. This project was approved by the state cabinet in its last meeting on November 4. The state has 95 development blocks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/rs-700-crore-worth-international-project-to-transform-3000-uttarakhand-schools/story-3HcExzHfXlHUzhl5yVs0gM.html
09-11-2020||Pune||5.53 lakh cases pending in Pune district and taluka courts||The National Judicial Data Grid (NJDG) e-court statistics state that there are 1, 23,068 civil cases and 4, 30,759 criminal cases totally aggregating to 5, 53,827 cases which were pending before different courts in Pune district. The statistics have been procured from the central government’s National Judicial Data Grid (NJDG) e-Court scheme. The NJDG is a part of the ongoing e-Courts integrated mission mode project and is working as a monitoring tool to identify, manage and reduce pendency of cases. Meanwhile, the lawyers’ fraternity and Pune Bar Association (PCB) has demanded that the government spruce up the existing infrastructure and construct a state-of-the-art multi-storeyed building conducive for a vibrant functioning of the courts. The PCB has recommended hearing on holidays to lessen the pendency and stated that it would constantly follow up with the government seeking early release of funds for the court infrastructure development project. The lawyers also stated that since the court had not resumed complete functionality, lesser litigations were filed as the hearing will take time. However, during the Covid-19 crisis, the lawyers are taking a cautious approach before filing the petitions in the courts. PBA president advocate Satish Mulik said, “Hearings have been affected during the last eight months and cases to be heard are pending due to the Covid-19 crisis. We have discussed with authorities if we restart the court and cancel holidays to dispose of the huge backlog of cases,” he said. “We have around 85-90 Judges chambers and the space is very insufficient so we need immediate court infrastructure expansion programme and want multi-storeyed buildings to accommodate a greater number of people and give sufficient space to the judicial staffers. There is also a major shortage of stenographers, court halls and judges in Pune district with immediate effect. The current infrastructure is putting a strain on the judicial functioning and leading to a rise in pendency of cases,” he said. Milind Pawar, advocate said, “There are a number of cases pending due to various reasons in the district. The infrastructure is also a major issue before the courts. Judges are working is small chambers and there is problem ranging from stationary up to internal infrastructure. The judges, lawyers are working under a difficult condition which is one of the major factors behind the rising pendency.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/5-53-lakh-cases-pending-in-pune-district-and-taluka-courts/story-G9txFaZdDh9rBzcTm6EsVK.html
09-11-2020||Mumbai||Bollywood drugs case: NCB summons Arjun Rampal after searching his house for eight hours||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has summoned actor Arjun Rampal on Wednesday (November 11) for questioning in connection with a drugs case. The anti-narcotics agency on Monday also carried out an eight-hour search at the actor’s Bandra home and seized electronic gadgets, an NCB official said.Acting on the basis of a tip-off received from a person previously arrested in a narcotics case, the officials on Monday carried out searches at three locations in Mumbai such as Andheri, Khar and Bandra. The search began at Capri Heights in Bandra, where Rampal stays, at around 7 am and lasted till 3pm. Actor Sushant Singh Rajput (34) had also stayed in this building before he moved to another Bandra property, where he died by suicide on June 14.In October, Agisialos Demetriades, the brother of Arjun Rampal’s girlfriend Gabriella Demetriades, was arrested by the NCB in a drug case. The Central agency had also seized hashish and other banned drugs from him. Later, Agisialos was arrested in another case involving a Nigerian national Omega Godwin, who was arrested on charges of supplying cocaine. Agisialos’s name cropped during Godwin’s interrogation. Kshitij Prasad, a former employee of director-producer Karan Johar’s Dharma Productions, was also arrested by the NCB in the same case.NCB sources said that they suspect links between the previously arrested accused and Rampal and would like to question the latter to ascertain his culpability. Rampal’s driver was also questioned by NCB officials on Monday. So far, the actor has not been named as an accused in the case and no drug was found at his residence during the search on Monday.The action against Rampal is seen as the central agency’s drive to curb the purported drug menace in the film industry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bollywood-drugs-case-ncb-summons-arjun-rampal-after-searching-his-house-for-eight-hours/story-SB1W2LkwFCZrvcnLhb9a0O.html
09-11-2020||Pune||No rush at bus stations ahead of Diwali festival||Ahead of the Diwali festival, the usual hustle and bustle of passengers going and coming to their hometowns is missing this year. There is not much business this year amid the Covid-19 pandemic, say members of Private bus owners association.This year the business during the Diwali season has gone down by at least 50 per cent, they say.“There is fear among people to travel during this pandemic and so the business has been affected. Fewer people are opting for private and public transport,” said Baba Shinde, president, State president of goods and passenger transport association.“We have many offers and discounts to attract customers, but the number is few. We are also taking all safety precautions according to the guidelines issued by the administration. We hope that in the coming week the business gains momentum, as currently, the business is down by at least 50 per cent as compared to last many years during the Diwali festival,” he said.Every year a week prior to the Diwali season the bus fare of Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) and also the private luxury buses increase. There is a tap by the state government on private players to increase the rates only by 1.5 times the MSRTC bus fares.Three squads to act against violatorsPune Regional Transport Office (RTO) has formed three squads to monitor and take action against private luxury buses violating the rules in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad area. Till now action has been taken against 70 private tourists buses by the RTO inspectors.“We have formed three squads to check and take action against private tourists buses during this Diwali festive season. There should be no overloading of passengers and Covid protocols given by the government needs to be strictly followed. If such norms are violated a fine is imposed on the violators and if the vehicle owners do not have proper documents then vehicles are seized,” said, Sanjay Sasane, officer, Pune deputy regional transport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/no-rush-at-bus-stations-ahead-of-diwali-festival/story-si1NGpRJjQUCepVeacAmOK.html
09-11-2020||Pune||Punekars brew travel plans as vacation kicks-off||After a total of 229 days since Prime Minister Narendra Modi first announced a lockdown in the light of the Covid-19 pandemic, residents in Pune are eagerly waiting to cash in on the Diwali vacation. Some are looking at an opportunity to escape from work while some want to exercise caution by staying at home. The general public is looking at different ways which will balance Covid norms and stress-free vacations. Children have also reported fatigue and tiredness with attending online classes and staying at home for the entire day. “We are a group of eight cousins and in Diwali, we generally plan a visit to Mahabaleshwar or Goa. This year we are staying at home but we have organised a carrom championship,” said Rugved Sharma, a Pashan resident. Sharma said, “From the next day of Diwali our self-organised tournament will start. We will keep it a knock-out format. The first round will have four matches, then two semi-finals and then final. This will continue for three days (one round a day). Evening sessions will be spent by playing cards.” “Self-drive is the new theme for the Diwali vacation as people are even ready to travel by road for 12 hours and reach their destination. Goa and Mahabaleshwar are on high demand and most of the inquiries and booking have come for these two places. Even people are ready to go to Udaipur by road,” said Ashwin Kardekar, director of My Travelogue Holidays Pvt Ltd. Flattening of the Covid curve has given a fresh lease of life to people as travelling agencies are getting more queries. Mihir Laghate, a commercial artist has planned a six-day trip to the Andaman Islands with his brother and parents. “Last seven months were too hectic at home. Now, with relaxation in place, we have decided to take a trip for breaking the current routine,” added Laghate who is travelling by flight via Chennai. “I have done a complete enquiry regarding hotels and we have decided not to travel in a group for sight-seeing but we four will prefer a private cab,” added Laghate. Kiran Shinde, an avid traveller and trekker has different plans this time. “My son Varad is 9 years old, so I am not making any plans for this Diwali vacation. Even trekking is not allowed completely, you can walk and go to Sinhagad but via vehicle it is still not allowed. With restrictions for below 10-year olds in place, I prefer to exercise caution,” said Shinde. Dr Sumit Mandale, an ayurvedic doctor, summiteer of world’s third highest Kanchenjunga and sixth highest peak Cho oyu will be doing various Ghatvata in three days. Ghatvata are the ancient routes among hills which are between the Deccan plateau to Konkan which were used when there were no roads. Trekkers are exploring these routes for expeditions. “I will be going for a trek along with Omkar Hinge, Aishwarya Ghare and Marisha Shaha. There are many Ghatvata in Kanad Maval ( west to Velha). We will start from Khanu will be descending from one route, that is from one ghat to Konkan and again will come back to by different route(ghat). We will finish our trek at Kelad,” said Mandale who will be covering Bocheghol Nal, Borata Nal, Singapur Nal, Bhik Nal and Shevatya ghat. Rahul Saha, a businessman in the city has planned a 5-day trip to Mahabaleshwar. “Every summer we travel to a hill station, but this time lockdown made us change our plans and instead of long-distance travelling we prefer to travel nearby with my 14-year-old daughter and wife,” added Saha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/punekars-brew-travel-plans-as-vacation-kicks-off/story-Eu48eS4M2JrYbiEr3hPSlL.html
09-11-2020||Pune||Sea of people: Social distancing missing in Pune markets||Barely minutes after Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray made an appeal to people to be cautious of a second Covid-19 wave, a large crowd in areas like Laxmi road, Mandai and Tulsibaug violated social distancing norms as people stepped out of homes on Sunday for Diwali shopping. As social distancing and other Covid related protocols went for a toss, Federation of Traders Association of Pune (FTAP) has issued guidelines to all traders and shop owners asking them for strict adherence to prevent Covid and avoid any action from authorities. This being the only holiday before Diwali, people in large number visited Laxmi road, Bajirao road, Tilak road, Tulshibaug and Raviwar peth markets, causing traffic congestion in many areas of various peths. Vehicle movement was slow on the market roads and pedestrians were finding it difficult to walk through the road. In most shops, people were seen standing close to each other, without maintaining the distance while some of them did not even wear masks. Ironically, Thackeray in his address in the afternoon had asked people to follow Covid guidelines in order to prevent the virus from spreading. The scene was similar at roadside vendors, who attracted a large number of customers since afternoon. “The festive season is coming closer and it is the last weekend before Diwali. So, we have issued strict guidelines to be followed by traders and shop owners, especially from these market areas. Covid-19 has not yet gone and there is still a fear of infection to spread. Social distancing, wearing a face mask, use of hand sanitizer and other safety measures need to be taken seriously. So, we have again issued our Covid related protocol guidelines to our members across Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad,” said Fatechand Ranka, president of FTAP. Nitin Pandit, secretary of Tulshibaug market shop owners association said, “Safety of our customers and also our staff is most important for us, so wearing a face mask and following social distancing is strict at our market. Today morning we all members of the association took a complete round of entire Tulshibaug market and strictly instructed all the shop owners not to allow anyone without a face mask and thermal checking inside the shop. We need to be careful even now, as infection should not spread from these market areas.” From the last couple of days, the crowd at city markets is increasing and despite all appeals people still are not following safety precautions. Most of them are not wearing a face mask and even social distancing is not kept properly inside the shops. “Today I had gone to Laxmi road with my friends for shopping, there was a huge crowd and we were walking through pushing each other in the crowd. No social distancing was followed on road even inside the shops. This is very risky as per current situation and shop owners should allow customers in a proper way following Covid protocols.” said Pooja Shirke, an IT professional.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/sea-of-people-social-distancing-missing-in-pune-markets/story-EI3LXfPyhm0t4XrBdlWSzJ.html
09-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chamurthi horses give Rampur Bushahr a miss as Lavi Fair is postponed||Despite the International Lavi Fair in Rampur Bushahr, known for its horse exhibition, being postponed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, more than a 100 horse merchants have arrived here hoping for good deals on the Chamurthi horses.The exhibition is organised every year from November 4 to 8, with crores of rupees believed to be spent in trading of horses, the main attraction being the Chaumurti breed or the Spiti pony, a small, sturdy animal that’s mainly found in the Himalayas and in the state’s Spiti valley. Very adaptable to high altitude journeys in snow-bound areas, the Chaumurti is known for its endurance to harsh terrain and is largely used by Tibetans, Spitians and Ladakhis for transportation and during wars.Similar to the Tibetan breed, the Chaumurti is well muscled with a good bone structure, having slightly sloped shoulders and deep chest. It’s back is short, withers (ridge between the shoulder blades) low, legs short and sturdy and the backbone high and almost straight.As the exhibition has been postponed officially, only a few horses that were brought in earlier were sold, the highest price tag being Rs 65,000.However, some traders have decided to wait, hoping for the arrival of horse sellers from Kinnaur and Spiti in a few days with the Chamurthi.A regular visitor to the fair and Uttarakhand based merchant Brij Mani Gaur said he was unable to buy horses this year.Not ready to go back, however, Gaur said he had decided to wait for a few more days for traders to come in from the higher reaches.The Lavi Fair, organised every year from November 11 to 14 in Rampur Bushahr, is a major event and is believed to be linked to the signing of the trade treaty between the erstwhile Bushahr state and Tibet. Handloom and woollen products, dry fruits, medicinal herbs and other goods are sold in the fair, where cultural programmes are also a big attraction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chamurthi-horses-give-rampur-bushahr-a-miss-as-lavi-fair-is-cancelled/story-tCWniclb3lEXRAgcCXzaCJ.html
09-11-2020||Kolkata||Madhu Kishwar posts anti-India Islamic rally video, booked for spreading fake news||The Kolkata Police on Monday registered a case against Delhi-based academic and rights activist Madhu Purnima Kishwar for tweeting a video of an Islamic rally in Bangladesh and claiming that it took place in Kolkata. The video shows thousands of members of the Muslim community taking part in a massive roadshow in the heart of a city with a song playing in the background. The Bengali lyrics clearly refer to Bangladesh and several flags of the country and policemen in riot gear can also be seen in the 1.42 minute clip. “Hindustan (India) will not find its place because it has taken a stand against Islam…” part of the lyrics say. Kishwar, who tweeted the video on Sunday night, wrote, “In Kolkatta.” A first information report (FIR) has been drawn against Kishwar, said Murlidhar Sharma, joint commissioner (crime) of the Kolkata Police. The Information Technology cell of the detective department deals with cases like these. Marking Kishwar’s tweet as fake, the Kolkata Police tweeted, “#FakeNewsAlert A video clip from Bangladesh is being falsely claimed to be from Kolkata. Legal action initiated.” Kishwar’s post was retweeted 2,681 times and drew 4,385 replies till 3 pm on Monday. Also Read: West Bengal Assembly elections approaching, promises to free political prisoners do the roundsNoted Supreme Court lawyer and activist Prashant Bhushan retweeted the post of the Kolkata Police. “Great. These fake news & hate news spreaders must be brought to account. This lady is a serial offender,” he wrote. “We strongly condemn this spreading of fake news. No matter how hard people may try, the secular fabric of West Bengal cannot be destroyed,” said Trinamool Congress Lok Sabha member and party spokesperson Saugata Roy. Kishwar had been in news in the past for posting controversial videos from Bangladesh and claiming that the incidents took place in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/madhu-kishwar-posts-anti-india-islamic-rally-video-booked-for-spreading-fake-news/story-R2NKAzYL09i5eFrBufehYN.html
09-11-2020||Dehradun||Rishikesh: Around 30 river rafting guides test positive for Covid-19 as tourist inflow increases||Around 30 river rafting guides tested positive for Covid-19 in Rishikesh within a month as tourist inflow increased since October. River rafting had resumed in the state in the last week of September after a gap of almost six months. Dinesh Bhatt, the president of Rafting Association in Rishikesh said, “Of around 700 rafting guides,around 30 have tested positive for Covid-19 in Rishikesh. We are taking all precautions and following the guidelines issued by the state government while entertaining tourists. Those who have tested positive are undergoing treatment and we have conducted contact tracing also for them.” Also Read: 20 rafting guides in Haridwar contract Covid-19 in last 2 weeksBhatt said that since river rafting resumed in the state on September 26, Rishikesh has welcomed a little over 20,000 tourists. “We have received a good response from tourists after river rafting resumed in the state post the lockdown due to Covid-19 epidemic. Over 20,000 tourists have already visited Rishikesh. We are taking all precautions, specially following social distancing even in rafts. One raft has a maximum capacity of carrying eight people, but we are allowing four people along with two guides, so that social distancing is followed,” added Bhatt. He however added that number of tourists has been reducing since the past two weeks due to the onset of winter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/rishikesh-around-30-river-rafting-guides-test-positive-for-covid-19-as-tourist-inflow-increases/story-iFxX5oCC43ntiWx9EOEyiK.html
09-11-2020||Mumbai||Bombay high court refuses interim bail to Arnab Goswami in 2018 abetment to suicide case||The Bombay high court on Monday refused interim bail to Republic TV’s editor Arnab Goswami, who was arrested by Alibag police in connection with the 2018 abetment to suicide case of 53-year-old interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother Kumud. The division bench comprising justices SS Shinde and MS Karnik rejected Goswami’s plea, saying that no case was made out for the bench to exercise its extraordinary jurisdiction to release the accused on bail. The bench refused interim bail also to two other accused in the case—Firoz Sheikh and Nitish Sarda—primarily stating that there was alternate and effacious remedy available for regular bail under Section 439 of the Criminal Procedure Code. The Alibag police had arrested Goswami in the morning of November 4, 2020 and remanded him to judicial custody till November 18. Also Read: Maharashtra governor ‘concerned’ about Arnab Goswami’s health, securityGoswami moved the high court on November 4 itself, claiming his arrest was patently illegal and sought his immediate release from jail by way of interim relief. Senior advocate Aabad Ponda had argued on Goswami’s behalf that the earlier investigation officer of the case had submitted an A-summary report on April 16, 2019, and the jurisdictional magistrate had closed the case by accepting the summary report. Ponda had submitted that the “dead” case could not been reopened and re-investigated without a judicial order. Thus, he claimed, the arrest was patently illegal and the Republic TV editor was entitled to be forthwith released on bail by way of an interim measure. The state government, on the other hand, contended that unlike B and C summaries, an A-summary is not a closure report, and therefore no permission of the magistrate was required to undertake further investigation in the case. Senior advocate Amit Desai, who represented the government, said A-summary indicates that the allegations made in the complaint are true, but no one can be prosecuted for want of adequate evidence. B-summary means the allegations are found to be false, whereas C-summary indicates that no offence is disclosed. Thus, Desai claimed, A-summary reflects an incomplete investigation and therefore cannot be construed a closure report. Permission of the judicial magistrate was therefore not required to carry further investigation in the case. In this backdrop, he said, the new investigative officer has rightly informed the jurisdictional magistrate on October 15, 2020 that he has started further investigation, as permitted under Section 173(8) of the Criminal Procedure Code, and started further investigation. Desai claimed there was nothing wrong in the entire process to warrant immediate release of the Republic TV’s editor. He strenuously opposed the interim prayer for forthwith releasing Goswami on bail. He argued that the habeas corpus petition itself was not maintainable and therefore there was no question on granting him any interim relief. The senior advocate said even if it is assumed that the arrest was illegal, detention was authorised by the chief judicial magistrate at Alibag who remanded Goswami and two others arrested with him, Firoz Sheikh and Nitish Sarda, to judicial custody, and no habeas corpus petition could strike down a judicial order. Anvay Naik, 53, died by suicide at his residence at Kaavir village in Alibag tehsil on May 5, 2018. His mother, Kumud, too, was found dead at their home. His wife Akshata had lodged a complaint with the police alleging that her husband was forced to take the drastic step as he was under tremendous mental stress because of non-payment of dues collectively amounting to Rs5.40 crore by Goswami and two others. She added that Naik was the managing director of Concorde Designs Private Limited, which rendered services for Republic TV. Along with Republic, Naik was owed by from two other companies namely Smartworks and IcastX/Skimedia. On the basis of Akshata’s complaint, the Alibag police had registered an offence booking Goswami, Feroz Shaikh of IcastX/Skimedia and Nitish Sarda of Smartworks for abetting the suicides of her husband and mother-in-law. In his suicide note, Naik had alleged that Goswami owed him ₹83 lakh, Sarda ₹55 lakh and Shaikh ₹4 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-high-court-refuses-interim-bail-to-arnab-goswami-in-2018-abetment-to-suicide-case/story-8Igp56b4CwRKdOqCE3bDaN.html
09-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi riots: HC issues notice on plea challenging appointment of special public prosecutors||The Delhi high court on Monday issued notice on a plea challenging the appointment of Special Public Prosecutor (SPPs), including Solicitor General (SG) Tushar Mehta, in cases pertaining to north-east Delhi riots, adding that the matter would require a response from the authorities concerned.Justice Navin Chawla, while seeking the response of the Delhi government and the city police, also asked the petitioners— Delhi Prosecutors Welfare Association (DPWA)—to implead Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) in the plea after Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Sanjay Jain said the Centre had taken the decision and hence they should be a party to the proceedings.The petition, filed through advocates —Kushal Kumar and Aditya Kapoor of Erudite Legal Partners — has sought quashing of Delhi government’s June 24 notification appointing the 11 SPPs on the ground that it was issued on police recommendations, in violation of the scheme provided under the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC). It has also sought appointment of independent SPPs by “respecting the principles of fairness and impartiality”.Appearing for the petitioner, senior advocate Vikas Pahwa contended that a public prosecutor is an independent person and cannot be appointed by the police themselves. He submitted that the police cannot decide as to who would represent them otherwise the purpose of free trial is defeated. In this case, he said, even the remuneration to be given to the SPPs would be given from the accounts of Delhi police which is not correct as the same should come from either the MHA or the Delhi government.“The very purpose of the prosecution is that it should be insulated and independent of the police. These kind of appointments have been quashed in the past by the Supreme Court as well,” he said.Representing the Delhi police, ASG Jain said the decision was taken by the MHA and hence it would not be able to proceed without the Centre being heard in the matter.Following this, the court impleaded the MHA and issued notice to the authorities seeking their response by January 12.According to the petition, the proposal of the Delhi Police to appoint SPPs was initially rejected by the Delhi government which decided to appoint SPPs from the empanelled advocates. A revised proposal forwarded by the police was also rejected by the Delhi government, the plea has said, adding that subsequently, the Lt Governor intervened and decided to proceed with the names recommended by the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-riots-hc-issues-notice-on-plea-challenging-appointment-of-special-public-prosecutors/story-CXGL4VjBy76dZYmowU4BRN.html
09-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi overtakes Maharashtra, Kerala as highest contributor to new Covid cases: Centre||The Union health ministry on Monday said that 79 per cent of the 45,903 fresh coronavirus (Covid-19) cases logged in the last 24 hours are from 10 states and Union territories (UTs) It added that Delhi has overtaken Maharashtra and Kerala by recording 7,745 cases in a single day to become the largest contributor towards the daily Covid-19 tally of the country. The national capital had overtaken Maharashtra and Kerala on November 7 too. Other states which continue to be worst hit from the pandemic are West Bengal, Karnataka, Haryana, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan.For several days, Delhi has been recording a record rise in the number of coronavirus reported in a span of 24 hours and is witnessing a third wave of the outbreak. Also Read| ‘Experts say Delhi’s Covid-19 peak could last for 4-5 days’: Health minister Satyendar JainState health minister Satyendar Jain while speaking to news agency ANI said, “Covid-19 cases are at peak now & experts say it can last for 4-5 days. Delhi’s overall death ratio is 1.59%. Many people aren’t wearing masks. Most cases are from working class. We’ve increased 110 ICU beds in govt hospitals.”The National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Monday announced a total ban on the sale and use of firecrackers in Delhi from Monday midnight till November 30. Bursting of firecrackers leads to rise in air pollution levels which further increases the spread of the Covid-19 disease. Meanwhile, the Union health ministry highlighted that the single day recoveries in the country on Monday continued to be greater than the new cases added. Also Read: Marginal increase in number of Covid-19 cases takes India’s tally to 8,553,657Nearly eight million people have recovered from coronavirus so far and the recovery rate stands at 92.56 per cent. Maharashtra and Kerala apart from adding the highest number of cases daily are also seeing the maximum number of single-day recoveries, the ministry added. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-overtakes-maharashtra-kerala-as-highest-contributor-to-new-covid-cases-centre/story-3pJm1O430chXtdumXEeMCK.html
09-11-2020||Election:||Bihar Assembly Election 2020: These seats will be watched closely||Thousands of political leaders will be eagerly watching the counting of votes on Tuesday for the three-phase Bihar assembly elections, which concluded on November 7 with 57.05 per cent voter turnout. Leaders of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), which consists of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the Janata Dal (United) or (JDU), Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) and Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP), are facing a tough contest from candidates from the opposition coalition of the Mahagathbandhan or Grand Alliance. The Mahagathbandhan comprises the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), the Congress and Left parties.Nominees of the Progressive Democratic Alliance (PDA), an alliance of Jan Adhikar Party (JAP), Azad Samaj Party, the Bahujan Mukti Party (BMP) and Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI), are also in the fray. The Grand Democratic Secular Front (GDSF) of the Rashtriya Lok Samta Party (RLSP), the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and the Janwadi Party (Socialist) and Asaduddin Owaisi-led All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) is another contender in the Bihar assembly polls this year.As counting of votes will be taken up on Tuesday and final results announced, here’s a look at the key contests of the Bihar assembly elections:RaghopurIn Raghopur, the Mahagathbandhan or Grand Alliance’s chief ministerial face Tejashwi Prasad Yadav faces the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) Satish Kumar, who had defeated Rabri Devi in 2010 state elections and LJP’s Rakesh Roshan. In 2015, then 25-year-old Tejashwi had defeated the BJP’s Kumar.HasanpurTej Pratap Yadav, who had contested from Mahua in 2015, shifted to “safe” seat of Hasanpur after rumours that his estranged wife Aishwarya Rai would contest on an NDA ticket at Mahua. Tej Pratap is pitted against sitting JD(U) MLA Raj Kumar Rai, who has been holding the seat since 2010.BankipurIn Bankipur, Congress’ poll debutant Luv Sinha - the son of actor-turned-politician Shatrughan Sinha faces four-time sitting BJP legislator Nitin Nabin. Other candidates in the fray are The Plurals Party chief Pushpam Priya and Independent candidate and Oxford University academician Manish Barriarr.Click here for complete coverage of Bihar assembly elections. ImamganjFormer chief minister and Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM) Jitan Ram Manjhi, who is the sitting MLA from the seat, is facing four-time MLA and veteran Dalit leader RJD’s Uday Narayan Choudhary. Choudhary left the JD(U) and entered the RJD after losing to Manjhi in 2015. The other main candidates from the seat are Jitendra Kumar Paswan of the RLSP and the LJP’s Shobha Sinha.DumraonDumraon has been held by the JD(U) for the past years and this time the party has fielded Anjum Ara to face CPI (ML) leader Ajit Kumar Kushwaha and Independent candidate Shivang Vijay Singh. Shivang Vijay is the grandson of the late Maharaja Kamal Singh, who represented the Buxar Lok Sabha seat as an Independent candidate for two consecutive terms 1952 and 1957.BrahampurThe seat is a Congress bastion and witnessing an interesting triangular battle between the VIP’s Jayraj Chaudhary, sitting RJD MLA Shambhu Nath Singh Yadav, and the LJP’s Hulas Pandey.Read more | A look at Nitish Kumar’s political career through the yearsGovindganjIn this seat, the LJP’s sitting MLA Raju Tiwari will face a triangular re-election battle with Congress’ Brajesh Pandey and the BJP’s Sunil Mani Tiwari. The LJP has fielded a candidate in Govindganj despite Chirag Paswan’s insistence earlier that the party won’t nominate anyway against the BJP.KishanganjThe Kishanganj constituency becomes crucial as the contest is between AIMIM’s Kamrul Hoda, Congress’ Izrahul Hussain and BJP’s Sweety Singh. A Muslim-dominated seat - Congress candidate Javed Azad had won in assembly polls in 2010 and 2015 from Kishanganj.SiktiSitting MLA Vijay Mandal will defend the seat for the BJP as RJD has fielded Shatrughan Mandal from Sikti assembly constituency, which is located in the Araria district.MadhepuraFormer Madhepura MP and Jan Adhikar Party (JAP) head Pappu Yadav has presented himself as the chief ministerial candidate in this year’s election and is contesting from the Madhepura constituency against the JD(U)’s Nikhil Mandal and the RJD’s Chandrasekhar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-assembly-election-2020-these-seats-will-be-watched-closely/story-TTNMFCQlqiZ11Gb7TJkuUM.html
09-11-2020||Mumbai||Bollywood drugs case: Firoz Nadiadwala’s wife in judicial custody till Nov 23||The Esplanade court on Monday remanded producer Firoz Nadiadwala’s wife Shabana Saeed to judicial custody. She has now approached the court for bail.On Sunday, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested Saeed and four others during an ongoing crackdown on the use of drugs in Bollywood. In a raid at her home in Juhu, officials found 10 grams of marijuana. The others arrested are accused of being drug peddlers and suppliers.Saeed was produced before the Esplanade court. The court remanded her to judicial custody till November 23. Meanwhile, her lawyer Ayaz Khan moved a bail application for her. The court has asked the NCB to file a reply on the bail plea and hearing is now scheduled for Tuesday.The others arrested have also been remanded to judicial custody till November 23.Also Read: Bollywood drugs case: Delhi HC seeks channels’ replies on plea against ‘irresponsible remarks’In the operation, the NCB seized 727.1 grams of ganja, 74.1 grams of charas and 95.1 grams of MD (commercial quantity) along with Rs 3,58,610 in cash from the peddlers and suppliers.Following a tip-off, the NCB first arrested Wahid Abdul Kadir Shaikh alias Sultan Mirza from Andheri (west). During interrogation he revealed he had supplied marijuana to Saeed. An NCB team immediately reached Saeed’s residence in Juhu. The search was conducted in the presence of two independent witnesses and 10 grams of marijuana was recovered. A notice was issued under Section 67 of the NDPS Act and she was arrested after her statement was recorded, said an NCB official.Apart from Saeed and Shaikh, the NCB arrested three more drug suppliers in the operation and are questioning them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bollywood-drugs-case-firoz-nadiadwala-s-wife-4-others-in-judicial-custody-till-november-23/story-i3A6JyWsU1NFwfcX1g9fhO.html
09-11-2020||Chandigarh||One killed, two injured in group clash over land dispute in Punjab’s Barnala||A villager was killed and two others were injured in firing during a group clash over a land dispute at Kaleke, 17 km from Barnala, on Monday. Police said Kulwinder Singh of Kaleke was killed on the spot, while the injured, Gurkirtan Singh and Jasmail Singh from the same village, were rushed to the Barnala civil hospital. Gurkirtan said the accused came with a rifle and sharp-edged weapons and attacked them following a dispute over 1.5 acres that was bought 15 years ago. “Pardeep Singh came with a rifle and others had machetes. They fired four bullets and my brother, Kulwinder, was killed. I was injured by a sharp-edged weapon and Jasmail sustained bullet injury on the face,” Gurkirtan said. Barnala superintendent of police (SP-D) Sukhdev Singh Virk said that the injured are out of danger and a case was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/one-killed-two-injured-in-group-clash-over-land-dispute-in-punjab-s-barnala/story-xwUYvAtj1zLM8AY7z97NhJ.html
09-11-2020||Mumbai||Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami files bail plea in Alibaug sessions court||Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami on Monday has filed a bail application in the Alibaug sessions court, news agency ANI reported. This comes ahead of a hearing in Bombay high court on his interim bail application.After his arrest from his Lower Parel residence in Mumbai, Goswami was taken to Alibaug, where the Chief Judicial Magistrate remanded him and the two others in judicial custody till November 18.Goswami was then kept at a local school which designated as a Covid-19 centre for the Alibaug prison. He was shifted to Taloja jail in Maharashtra’s Raigad district on Sunday. According to the police, Goswami was moved to Taloja jail after allegedly being found using a mobile phone while in judicial custody.The Raigad crime branch found Goswami was active on social media using somebody’s mobile phone, despite his personal mobile phone having been seized by police when he was taken into custody on November 4, an official quoted by news agency PTI said.Goswami had earlier filed an interim bail plea before the Bombay high court on Saturday which had given him an option to file the application in sessions court.(with ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/republic-tv-editor-arnab-goswami-files-bail-plea-in-alibaug-sessions-court/story-nXqx92RcrZP105Dhk8QDpI.html
09-11-2020||Delhi||‘Experts say Delhi’s Covid-19 peak could last for 4-5 days’: Health minister Satyendar Jain||Experts have said the current third wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic in the national capital, the worst so far, could last for another four to five days, according to Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Monday. “It seems Delhi’s Covid-19 cases are at peak now and experts say it can last for four to five days. Delhi’s overall death ratio is 1.59%,” Jain said.He attributed the rising number of Covid-19 cases to the fact that many people were still not wearing face masks. “Many people aren’t wearing masks. Most cases are from the working class,” he said, adding that 110 intensive care unit (ICU) beds were added to the total capacity of government hospitals.On Sunday, the minister pointed out that the national capital had hit the peak of the third wave of Covid-19 and said that the increase in the number of cases could be due to aggressive testing and contact-tracing.The national capital on Sunday recorded its highest-ever spike of 7,745 Covid-19 cases in 24 hours. As many as 438,529 people have been infected with the disease in Delhi and 6,989 people have lost their lives so far. Meanwhile, the national Covid-19 tally climbed to 8,553,657 on Monday morning, according to the Union health ministry website. The death toll in the country due to the viral disease stands at 126,611.On the indefinite strike of the Delhi municipal staff proposed to start on Monday, Jain said that since MCD employees get paid despite being on strike, the civic body must have no shortage of money. “It’s beyond my understanding how MCD (Municipal Corporation of Delhi) mayors pay salaries of employees, whenever there’s a strike. This shows they have the money. In my view, they are planning this all and doing it deliberately,” Jain said. The strike will be organised in protest against non-payment of dues to all sections and pensioners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/experts-say-delhi-s-covid-19-peak-could-last-for-4-5-days-health-minister-satyendar-jain/story-Viwrfk0eIzaFAXo2QLGnvL.html
09-11-2020||Election:||A look at Nitish Kumar’s political career through the years||Nitish Kumar, in a stunning announcement while wrapping up his campaign for the Bihar assembly polls, said at a rally on November 5 that this would be his last election. The Bihar chief minister was campaigning for a candidate of his Janata Dal(United) or JD(U) in Purnia when he made the comments. “This is the last day of the election. The day after this election will end and this is my last election. Ant bhala to sab bhala (All’s well that ends well),” he said.As Kumar’s comments set fire to retirement speculations, sources close to the 69-year-old leader clarified that he meant that it was the last meeting of the Bihar Assembly Election 2020. As Nitish Kumar aims for a fourth straight term as the chief minister this year, his party is facing one of the toughest election battles.Here’s a look at Nitish Kumar’s political career through the years:1985: Nitish Kumar is elected to the state assembly1989: Kumar backs Lalu Prasad Yadav in bagging the chair of the Leader of Opposition in the assembly1996: Switches loyalty to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)1998 to 2004: Serves in the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government under Atal Bihari Vajpayee in various capacities as the railways, surface transport and agriculture ministerMarch 2000: Kumar is elected as the chief minister of Bihar for the first time as he allies with the BJP-led NDA. The NDA and its allies had 151 MLA whereas Lalu Prasad Yadav had 159 MLA in 324-member house. Both alliances were less than the majority mark that is 163 and Nitish resigned before he could prove his numbers in the houseClick here for the complete coverage of Bihar assembly elections. 2004 Lok Sabha elections: Contests elections from two places and is elected from Nalanda but lost from his traditional Barh constituencyNovember 2005: Kumar becomes Bihar’s chief minister for the second time with the BJP as the coalition partner2010: Kumar’s party sweeps back to power along with its then allies, the BJP, and he again became the chief minister. The alliance won 206 seats, while the RJD bagged 22June 2013: Breaks alliance with the BJP after Narendra Modi was nominated the BJP’s prime ministerial candidateMay 2014: Kumar resigns after his party fared poorly in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, winning just two seats against 20 in the previous electionFebruary 2015: Allies with Lalu Prasad Yadav’s Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and contests the assembly elections, forming the Mahagathbandhan with the Congress as another constituent2016 and 2017: Corruption charges are levelled against Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, the then deputy chief minister, Kumar asks the RJD leader to resign from the cabinet. Yadav refuses to do so and Kumar resigns on July 26, 2017, thus ending the Grand Alliance. He joined the principal opposition, the NDA, and came back to power within a few hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/a-look-at-nitish-kumar-s-political-career-through-the-years/story-zfnyTdf6bxXq5DiZvmDnUO.html
09-11-2020||City||Arms, ammunition seized near LoC in Poonch||Security forces on Monday recovered a cache of arms and ammunition in Kirni sector along the Line of Control (LoC) in Poonch district. “Based on specific input by police, a joint search operation was launched by SOG Poonch and 10 Assam in Kirni area on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday,” said Poonch SSP Ramesh Kumar Angral. “During the search, a bag full of arms and ammunition hidden under boulders was found near the LoC,” he added. The seized items included four AK 56 assault rifles, four AK magazines, 141 AK rounds, two AGL grenades, two hand grenades, AK accessories, religious diaries, one bag and a rucksack. Also Read: 4 personnel, 3 terrorists killed as forces foil infiltration bid in Jammu and Kashmir“Initial investigations revealed that this consignment of arms and ammunition was to be smuggled to Kashmir valley to activate more terrorist-related actions by Lashkar- e-Taiba terrorists,” he said. An FIR has been registered in Poonch police station. Angral said, “The consignment was smuggled from across the LoC because Kirni is located close to the border. It was meant for LeT cadres in Valley”. The whole operation was conducted under the supervision of Dy SP operations Manish Sharma and an army unit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/arms-ammunition-seized-near-loc-in-poonch/story-eBG6FS9zLmgAsL1BLjkkXI.html
09-11-2020||City||Jammu: Army officer found dead inside Rashtriya Rifles camp in Rajouri||An Indian Army officer was found dead inside a Rashtriya Rifles (RR) camp at Dera Ki Gali area of Rajouri district in Jammu division on Monday. The deceased officer has been identified as Major Vineet Gulia, a resident of Haryana. Chandan Kohli, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Rajouri, said: “A bullet injury has been found in his head. Inquest proceedings have been initiated under Section 174 (a probe into a death by suicide) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC).” Also Read: 4 personnel, 3 terrorists killed as forces foil infiltration bid in Jammu and KashmirMajor Gulia was the company commander of 38 RR posted at Dera Ki Gali. The Indian Army is yet to issue a statement on Major Gulia’s death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jammu-army-officer-found-dead-inside-rashtriya-rifles-camp-in-rajouri/story-qhTkikyEdiOeO4Yyplg2CM.html
09-11-2020||Delhi||Political scientist CP Bhambri dies of prolonged illness||Eminent political scientist Chandra Prakash Bhambri, 87, who taught at Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU)for over four decades and was the professor emeritus of the university for the past few years, passed away on Sunday. He is survived by his wife, son, and daughter. The former JNU professor had been ill for nearly a year, friends and family said. One of the founders of the Centre for Political Sciences in JNU, Bhambri was known for his deep understanding of Indian politics and his secular and Marxist stance. He authored over 20 books which were considered as essential readings on the subject.As soon as the news of Bhambri’s death spread, condolence messages started pouring in from former students and colleagues. Noted sociologist Anand Kumar, who also taught at JNU, said, “Passing away of Professor CP Bhambri is a great loss for the Indian academia. He was synonymous with JNU in so many ways since 1970s. We grew up under his intellectual shelter. He was a proud political scientist and positive thinker. He lived a life of complete commitment to his students and university. A role model and an inspiring intellectual for innumerable students since the inception of JNU, he will be missed by many. It is a personal loss for me and several others who always found light in him.” Born in Multan in 1933, Bhambri pursued his undergraduate, postgraduate and doctorate from Agra University and later pursued his post-doctoral training in Michigan. Retired JNU professor Kamal Mitra Chenoy said that “everyone enjoyed his (Bhambri) sharp sense of humour and ability to lighten classes and meetings and even serious discussions”. “In his class on Comparative Politics, when only one fan was working in the large room, and some were cool while others sweating, he said, ‘Let’s have socialism here, switch off that fan’,” wrote Chenoy on Facebook and shared other anecdotes, giving a colourful picture of the noted political scientist. “He remained committed to the values of JNU teachers’ association and the Nehruvian idea of India. He was deeply disturbed by the identity politics of especially the current and even earlier regimes.” During the 2016 sedition row on the campus, Bhambri openly spoke out against the “attack on JNU” and demanded the release of the three students who were arrested back then. “..For those of us who knew him as students and then as colleagues, his spirit and the twinkle in his eye will forever roam our campus, full of enthusiasm for everything that is happening, bursting with opinions, and making generations of JNUites smile,” wrote former JNU teachers association president Ayesha Kidwai on her social media profile.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/political-scientist-cp-bhambri-dies-of-prolonged-illness/story-sWtyTzGDpM30yIbmAlyBNK.html
09-11-2020||Delhi||Bollywood drugs case: Delhi HC seeks channels’ replies on plea against ‘irresponsible remarks’||The Delhi high court (HC) on Monday sought the response of Republic TV, its editor-in-chief (EiC) Arnab Goswami; Times Now, its group editor Navika Kumar, and others in a plea filed by 34 leading Bollywood producers and four industry associations seeking restrain on the content broadcast by the two TV news channels in the Central agencies’ probe into actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case.Justice Rajiv Shakdher also directed that the defendants—the channels and their anchors—ensure that no defamatory content is be displayed or uploaded on their social media accounts against the plaintiffs, including production houses owned by actors Shah Rukh Khan, Aamir Khan, Salman Khan, Akshay Kumar, Ajay Devgn, Anil Kapoor, and directors Farhan Akhtar, Karan Johar, Rohit Shetty, Vinod Chopra, and Ashutosh Gowarikar etc.“Defendants (channels and anchors) will ensure that no defamatory content is uploaded on their social media platforms or displayed on their channels,” justice Shakdher said.Also Read: Bollywood drugs case: Delhi HC to hear filmmakers’ plea against media trial today“The counsel of the defendants (channels) has also assured me that they will follow the programme code and the rules framed under the Cable Television Network (Regulation) Act, 1995,” he added The court said that there should be free and fair reportage coupled with neutrality. Justice Shakdher cited pre-cable TV days and said the content,which was broadcast on public broadcaster Doordarshan (DD), was much better.The judge suggested “toning down” of the content while remarking that “it seems that the news channels are not following the programme codes”.He said: “You are pre-judging issues and something has to be done about that…It is disheartening and demoralising for everyone…In normal ways, till the charge sheet is not filed, we do not even name the person and refer him/her as the person of interest. But now, the name of the person and every detail is being given out even before the charge sheet is filed.” He referred to an incident that took place 15 years ago and said that a news channel had aired a report about a teacher showing some obscene material to her class and almost getting lynched because of it. The high court judge who heard the case, and is since retired, was disturbed by the turn of events.“Trained minds who deal with these issues on a regular basis get affected,” the judge said.“You need to tell me, how do we deal with this? How can we resolve the issues?” the judge asked. He said that he was amazed at the backgrounds of the broadcasters and their inflammatory content.“You represent the fourth estate. People are scared of you. No one wants to have their private life to be dragged in public domain. The privacy gets diluted,” he said, while referring to Princess Diana, who died in a car crash in Paris in 1997 while trying to escape paparazzi. The judge also expressed concern about the kind of language being used on TV channels as participants in debates have been found to use cuss words.The next hearing of the case is on December 14.The 1,069-page petition said the impact of the “wrongs of the defendants” was felt prominently in the national capital, and as a result legal action had been initiated in the Delhi high court.According to the petition filed in the court, “They [the channels] are targeting specific individuals with the malicious intention of damaging their reputation in the eyes of the public, invading the private lives of various persons in the industry and dragging their personal lives into the public domain, and trying to show it in a completely false light across the board.”“By their words, actions and publications the defendants, are adversely impacting the right to a fair trial in these cases where several persons from Bollywood may be called as witnesses and some may even be prosecuted as accused,” it added.The petitioners sought directions against Republic TV, its EiC Goswami and consulting editor Pradeep Bhandari; Times Now, its editor-in-chief Rahul Shivshankar, and group editor Kumar along with various social media websites. Earlier, Shivshankar and Kumar had said they did nothing wrong.“Cases against journalists of Times Now that have only sought justice for those who are wronged are a bad precedent...,” Shivshankar had tweeted.“If fighting for justice invites court cases, bring it on... Let the truth prevail,” Kumar had tweeted on October 12.The Film & Television Producers Guild Of India (PGI), The Cine & TV Artistes’ Association (CINTAA), Indian Film and TV Producers Council (IFTPC), Screenwriters Association (SWA), Aamir Khan Productions, Ad-Labs Films, Ajay Devgn Flims, Andolan Films, Anil Kapoor Film and Communication Network, Arbaaz Khan Productions, Ashutosh Gowariker Productions, BSK Network and Entertainment, Cape of Good Films, Clean Slate Filmz, Dharma Productions, Emmay Entertainment & Motion Pictures, Excel Entertainment , Filmkraft Productions, Hope Production, Kabir Khan Films, Luv Films, Macguffin Pictures, Nadiadwala Grandson Entertainment, One India Stories, RS Entertainment (Ramesh Sippy Entertainment),Rakeysh Omprakash Mehra Pictures, Red Chillies Entertainment, Reel Life Productions, Reliance Big Entertainment, Rohit Shetty Picturez, Roy Kapur Films, Salman Khan Films, Sikhya Entertainment, Sohail Khan Productions, Tiger Baby Digital, Vinod Chopra Films, Vishal Bhardwaj Pictures and Yashraj Films are the four industry associations and 34 leading Bollywood producers, respectively, who moved the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/bollywood-drugs-case-delhi-hc-seeks-channels-replies-on-plea-against-irresponsible-remarks/story-8IOMXQaV8nkkB0LRhkNtXI.html
09-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: BMC bans bursting of firecrackers except on Diwali evening||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Monday banned bursting of firecrackers in public and private places in Mumbai except on Saturday (November 14), when Diwali will be celebrated, because of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Only two variants of firecrackers, sparklers and flower pot, have been allowed to be burst in private on the evening of November 14. However, the sale of firecrackers has not been banned in Maharashtra. The BMC has appealed to the public not use sanitisers while bursting firecrackers and use water and soap instead as sanitisers are inflammable. “Let us celebrate a firecracker-free Diwali this year to save Mumbaikars from a possible second wave of Covid-19. We all can jointly make this possible,” said Iqbal Singh Chahal, commissioner, BMC.The BMC circular has empowered assistant municipal commissioners and local police authorities to take action against those violating its order. The civic body has urged the officials concerned to book the violators under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and the Disaster Management Act, 2005.Earlier, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had appealed to the public to celebrate a firecracker-free Diwali, as the resultant smoke could create health hazards for Covid-19 patients and those suffering from respiratory ailments.A state Cabinet meeting last week had discussed the issue on a blanket ban on the sale of firecrackers, but no decision was taken in the end.The BMC has appealed to Mumbaikars to avoid social gatherings during Diwali and have online celebrations instead. The civic body authorities have urged the public to comply with social distancing norms while celebrating Diwali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-bmc-bans-bursting-of-firecrackers-except-on-diwali-evening/story-mNI1pVpzUiBWr8zzzM6EDN.html
09-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi to adopt Dungarpur’s model of rainwater harvesting: Satyendar Jain||The Delhi government will adopt the cost-effective model of rainwater harvesting currently being implemented in the tribal-dominated Dungarpur district of Rajasthan, city Water Minister Satyendar Jain has said. A seven-member delegation, led by Jain, was on an official visit here to witness the rainwater-harvesting system that costs just Rs 16,000 as compared to the conventional one, which costs between Rs 50,000 and Rs one lakh per household.Jain said the Dungarpur model was an innovative idea that was centred on routing the rainwater to a bore well, instead of a regular rainwater-harvesting pit.“It is a closed-loop system. The rainwater collected on the rooftop is being routed to the casing of already existing bore wells in households. They have created sand filters in the conduit pipe itself and included a way of backwash too,” he told PTI. Jain said he wanted to witness the system himself as he was sceptical of the model when K K Gupta, the chairman of the Dungar Municipal Council, first told him about it.“I am satisfied now. It is an excellent system. We are going to implement it in Delhi, others should follow it too,” the minister said.“Normally, the construction of a rainwater harvesting system costs between Rs 50,000 and Rs one lakh, but the one being implemented in Dungarpur costs just Rs 16,000,” he added.Gupta claimed that there will be no shortage of water in Delhi if the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government implements the Dungarpur model of water harvesting in the national capital.“The minister could not believe it when I first told him that we have developed a water harvesting system that costs only Rs 16,000. In Delhi, the administration spent lakhs on creating large rainwater-harvesting pits.“Delhi reels under a shortage of water. The issue will be resolved 100 per cent if the city implements this model,” he said. Gupta said the Dungarpur administration gives a 50-per cent subsidy per household for installing a rainwater harvesting system.Read more | ‘Worst wave of Covid-19 so far’: Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain“Effectively, it costs Rs 8,000 per household. We have covered around 400 households and government buildings in the last three years,” he said. A government official in Dungarpur said the construction of large water-harvesting pits is not an economically sustainable idea.“Our concept focusses on making the rainwater harvesting system affordable so that more and more people can use it.”“Not everyone has the means to pay for an expensive rainwater harvesting system, so most people avoid creating one. The one we have developed cuts the cost drastically and does its job effectively,” he said. The official said the system can collect and route 3,000 litres of water per hour if the rainfall is light to moderate.“The conventional system has more storage capacity and the speed of groundwater recharge is slightly better, but most people do not take it up as it is expensive.”“If we wanted to create a conventional rainwater harvesting system in Dungarpur, hardly 10 people would have agreed to it,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-to-adopt-dungarpur-s-model-of-rainwater-harvesting-satyendar-jain/story-hsCrBvyaIyXv2fIPfS7XQJ.html
09-11-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 case positivity ratio shows decline in Maharashtra||Even as Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray warned of the possibility of a second wave of Covid-19 cases, the rate of infection in the state is showing signs of decreasing. In the first eight days of November, the positivity rate in the state has consistently remained under 10%.Maharashtra, on Sunday, continued to record a dip in cases over the past few weeks, reporting 5,052 new cases that took the tally to 1,719,858 on Sunday. With the addition of 110 new deaths, the state’s Covid-19 death toll touched 45,240.In November, so far, the positivity rate has averaged 8.35%, which means for every 100 samples tested, about eight are positive. This ratio was around 15% in October and 24% in September.Also Read: India’s cumulative Covid-19 positivity rate drops to 7.94%: Government dataAs per the data from the state health department, so far in November, the state has averaged 4,889 cases daily, while 59,141 tests were conducted daily on an average.Thackeray, on Sunday, warned people not to lower their guard, as the second wave could prove to be a “tsunami”. He appealed to the people to follow basic protocol—social distancing, using masks and washing hands—to keep the spread of the virus at the bay. Thackeray said that lax behaviour by people during the festive season and the onset of winter could reverse the declining Covid-19 curve.“Countries like Italy, Spain, England and the Netherlands have been witnessing the second wave of Covid-19 that is more severe than the first one. We do not want it to emerge in Maharashtra and it is possible only if we continue our disciplined appearance in public life. The state machinery is ready to take up the burden of the surge, but common people too should adopt Covid-19-appropriate behaviour,” he said during a public address through social media on Sunday.The chief minister also warned of strict action against violation of Covid-19 guidelines. He said that a patient can further infect 400 people and they could, in turn, infect many. “We have directed the machinery to take strict action against people not wearing masks,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-case-positivity-ratio-shows-decline-in-maharashtra/story-AMr40JgFv0UTkYA39oOPzH.html
09-11-2020||Ranchi||Covid-19: Zero deaths, 203 fresh cases logged in last 24 hours||Jharkhand has not reported any fresh Covid-19 fatality in the past 24 hours, even as 203 fresh cases pushed the tally to 1,04,442, a health department official said on Monday.The coronavirus death toll remained at 897 in the state.The new infections include 60 from Ranchi district, 24 from Hazaribagh, 20 from Bokaro and 15 from Dhanbad, he said.Jharkhand now has 4,471 active coronavirus cases, while 99,074 people have recovered from the disease so far, the official said.The state has tested 20,216 samples for Covid-19 in the past 24 hours, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/covid-19-zero-deaths-203-fresh-cases-logged-in-last-24-hours/story-3rMZOye2CSGe6kq5OVXUEO.html
09-11-2020||Lucknow||For greener Diwali: Cow dung diyas, idols available on Lucknow Municipal Corporation app||The Lucknow Municipal Corporation’s (LMC) ‘Lucknow One’ app, which addresses sewer, water or sanitation problems of citizens, will now also act as a marketing platform. This Diwali, diyas and Lakshmi-Ganesh idols for will also be available through this app.Director, animal welfare, Lucknow Municipal Corporation, Dr Arvind Rao said , “LMC aims to sell more than 100,000 diyas and Idols this year. With this initiative, it has become the first municipal corporation to market diyas and idols online through its portal.” He said, “Besides selling through the app, LMC will also sell these items by setting up stalls. For that, the corporation has contacted prominent traders in main markets of Lucknow, like Hazratganj, Aminabad, Chowk, Alambagh and Charbagh.” Municipal commissioner Ajay Dwivedi said, “This is one of the best eco-friendly steps by LMC which will not only bring cash but also help the city’s environment.No such initiative for protection of environment has been taken by any municipal corporation in the past.” Also read | Uttar Pradesh govt to launch website for first-ever virtual Deepotsav in AyodhyaHe said, “I have directed officials to ensure quick delivery of diyas and idols as soon as they are booked by the residents. Any laxity in delivering the order would not be tolerated.” He said, “I am monitoring the making of diyas and idols personally at Kanha Upvan along with other officials.” Dr Rao said, “We are also mixing seeds of Tulsi, giloy and other medicinal plants in the cow dung idols and diyas so that they may benefit the environment if they are disposed of in a pit or even in a pot.” The diyas made in Kanha Upvan would be available in packs of 4 , 10 , 20 and 300. Additional municipal commissioner Amit Kumar said, “The diyas are uniquely designed. They are better than the usual diyas available in the market. Similarly in Ganesh Lakshmi idols, the finishing is at par with other idols available in the market.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/for-greener-diwali-cow-dung-diyas-idols-available-on-lucknow-municipal-corporation-app/story-4sB81tPIqDC3xddfEzUkRJ.html
09-11-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh govt to launch website for first-ever virtual Deepotsav in Ayodhya||The state government will be launching a website for a virtual Deepotsav (flame lamp festival) for people to participate in the Ayodhya Deepotsav by lighting a virtual diya (flame lamp). “The virtual Deepotsav will be no less real than the actual one and thus this platform will enable a never before real experience. The portal will have a portrait of Sri Ram Lalla Virajman before which the virtual lamps will be lit. The portal will have a facility to pick up the lamp-stand of one’s choice—steel, brass or any other material. An option of using ghee or oil will also be available for devotees. Not only this, the hands of the person lighting up the lamp on the website would be based on whether the devotee is a man or a woman. After the lamps are lit, based on the details of the devotees, a thank you digital letter carrying the picture of Shri Ram Lalla from the UP CM will also be issued. The web portal will be up before the main event on November 13 to be available for common people,” read a UP government press statement.Also Read: VHP says it has no plans to mark anniversary of SC verdict on Ram templeWhile the Deepotsav on Diwali in Ayodhya will be held for the fourth time since it began in 2017, this is the first time it will be virtual. It will be held on November 13, a day before Diwali.At the instruction of the UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, the government is setting up a portal where virtual lamps can be lit, the statement read.The statement said that Yogi Adityanath has issued instructions to make the Ayodhya Deepotsav grander this time but has also cautioned that there should be no breach of Covid-19 protocol. Directives have also been issued to hold different events daily and to ensure that all Covid-19 protocols are adhered to. The CM has also said that on Deepotsav, along with ‘Ram Ki Pauri’, all mutts, temples and homes will also light lamps so that the whole temple town of Ayodhya is lit up brightly. The government aims to light up over 550,000 lamps this time to attempt a new Guinness record by breaking its last year’s record of 410,000.The statement said that the portal will also allow a virtual selfie with chief minister Yogi Adityanath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-government-to-launch-website-for-first-ever-virtual-deepotsav-in-ayodhya/story-bPNadLkhKSMp4uURnFHcxH.html
09-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality remains in severe category for five days in a row||The national capital’s air quality index (AQI) remained in the “severe” category for the fifth consecutive day on Monday morning. The AQI on Monday at 6am was 459, which was higher than the previous day’s 24-hour average of 416. On Monday, the minimum temperature recorded at 8.30am was 10 degrees Celsius (C). “There is moderate fog with visibility of only 400 metres (m). No wind is blowing. The AQI has spiked further because of calm and stable conditions at night and in the morning,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre. The AQI in neighbouring Noida in the national capital region (NCR) was worse than Delhi at 475. A similar condition persisted in Gurugram (472) and Faridabad (462) in the NCR, which have been hit hard by farm fires. An AQI between 301 and 400 and from 401 to 500 are considered in the “very poor” and “severe” category, respectively. Severe category air affects healthy people and seriously impacts those with existing health conditions, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).Scientists have attributed the current spate of bad air to heavy load of pollutants from farm fires raging in neighbouring Haryana and Punjab.Over 4,900 and 3,500 farm fires raged in Punjab on Saturday and Sunday, respectively, the Union Ministry of Earth Sciences’ data showed. Smoke from stubble fires coupled with calm winds led to a significant worsening of AQI. Farmer leaders said farm fires would continue till November 15, as harvesting is still in progress.One of the reasons for the prolonged stubble fire in Punjab is the shortage of farm labour, who had returned to their native states during the 68-day coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-induced lockdown restrictions, which were enforced by the government from March 25.“Fires will continue for a week or so. All the late varieties of paddy are being harvested. Many parts of the state faced labour shortage this year. Most farm labourers are from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh (UP). They returned to their native places during the lockdown restrictions. There was a labour shortage during the beginning of harvesting season,” said Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary, Bharatiya Kisan Union. Scientists said air quality is unlikely to improve till Tuesday. “Winds are in a transitional phase. On Monday evening, they may shift to the north-easterly direction. However, there is no likelihood of any improvement in air quality because wind speed is likely to remain very low. Air quality may remain severe on Monday. No significant improvement is expected around Diwali, which will be celebrated on Saturday (November 14). The AQI is consistently in the “severe” category because of high farm fire counts.” said Vijay Soni, scientist, IMD, air quality division.IMD has predicted that minimum temperature is likely to drop further in the national capital. The maximum and minimum temperature is expected to be around 30 and 10 degrees C, respectively, on Monday. On Sunday, Delhi’s minimum temperature, recorded at the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official reading for the city, was 11.2 degrees C – three notches below normal. The maximum temperature was 29.6 degrees C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-air-quality-in-severe-category-for-five-days-in-a-row/story-R0WhpH6kZbKzgOZEV2fdtM.html
09-11-2020||Delhi||Bollywood drugs case: Delhi HC to hear filmmakers’ plea against media trial today||The Delhi high court (HC) on Monday will hear a plea by leading filmmakers against “media trial of Bollywood personalities”, who have been dubbed as “as criminals” by two TV news channels, and have sought action in a fresh fallout of the Central agencies’ probe into actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case. Justice Rajiv Shakdher will hear the plea filed by 34 leading Bollywood producers and four industry associations.The petitioners have sought the HC’s directions against the two TV news channels—Republic TV and Times Now—and their editors and other journalists. The plea has sought editors and journalists of these TV news channels to refrain from making irresponsible, derogatory and defamatory remarks against Bollywood personalities and those who are associated with the industry.Also Read: Media trial in Sushant Singh Rajput death case: Bombay HC concludes hearing, reserves judgmentThe plea, filed through DSK Legal, also sought directions to various social media platforms to restrain them from publishing the remarks of these editors and journalists. It has cited that the channels are interfering with the right to privacy of Bollywood personalities.The petition has drawn the court’s attention to the derogatory words and expressions put out by the channels to describe Bollywood such as “dirt”, “filth”, “scum”, and “druggies”. Besides, it has taken exception to sweeping statements such as “it is Bollywood, where the dirt needs to be cleaned”, “all the perfumes of Arabia cannot take away the stench and the stink of this filth and scum of the underbelly of Bollywood”, “this is the dirtiest industry in the country”, and “cocaine and LSD (lysergic acid diethylamide) drenched Bollywood”.The plea has argued that Bollywood is known for its distinct and well-recognised class, is a huge source of revenue for the public exchequer, including foreign exchange, creates thousands of jobs and various other industries are also dependent on it.“Bollywood is unique and stands on a different footing from any other industry. It is dependent almost solely on goodwill, appreciation and acceptance of its audience. The livelihood of persons associated with Bollywood is being severely impacted by the smear campaign being run by the defendants.This is in addition to the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, which has resulted in extreme revenues and work opportunity loss. The privacy of the members of Bollywood is being invaded. Their reputations are being irreparably damaged by painting the entire Bollywood as criminals, seeped in drug culture, and being part of the industry synonymous with criminal acts in the public imagination,” the plea has stated.“They [the channels] are targeting specific individuals with the malicious intention of damaging their reputation in the eyes of the public, invading the private lives of various persons in the industry and dragging their personal lives into the public domain, and trying to show it in a completely false light across the board,” it has said.“By their words, actions and publications the defendants are adversely impacting the right to a fair trial in these cases where several persons from Bollywood may be called as witnesses and some may even be prosecuted as accused,” it has added.The petitioners included production houses owned by actors such as Shah Rukh Khan, Aamir Khan, Salman Khan, Akshay Kumar, Ajay Devgn, Anil Kapoor, and directors Farhan Akhtar, Karan Johar, Rohit Shetty, Vinod Chopra, and Ashutosh Gowarikar. The petitioners sought directions against Republic TV, its editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami and consulting editor Pradeep Bhandari; Times Now, its editor-in-chief Rahul Shivshankar, and group editor Navika Kumar along with various social media platforms.Earlier, Shivshankar and Kumar had said they did nothing wrong.“Cases against journalists of Times Now that have only sought justice for those who are wronged are a bad precedent...,” Shivshankar had tweeted.“If fighting for justice invites court cases, bring it on... Let the truth prevail,” Kumar had tweeted on October 12.The plea ha said a perusal of various articles online reflected that the defendants were publishing and circulating false, disparaging and malicious allegations against Bollywood actors.“The words used, remarks made, as well as the essence of the assertions and allegations made by the defendants against the plaintiff, include without limitation…. “cocaine and LSD drenched Bollywood”, “your consumption is the reason that Pakistan is carrying out narco-terrorism operations enabling asymmetric warfare on our country”, the open secret in Bollywood of money that comes from the underworld to finance movies, you’ve seen stars all through the 80s and 90s and these stars going to Dubai, dancing in parties held by (gangster) Dawood Ibrahim, heard of stars being booked for collaborating with the underworld and going to jail, you’ve heard of contract killing being ordered by the underworld against other competitors of a certain group of people,” are excerpts of the false, disparaging and malicious allegations against Bollywood actors cited in the plea.The petition has said that various articles, videos and broadcasts made it evident that the defendants were “deliberately inciting anger and hatred in the general public for persons associated with Bollywood, which can endanger their safety as several of them are well known and easily identified and may be subjected to violent reactions in public places”.It has also said that the actions of the channels and their anchors and reporters were “systematically destroying the goodwill that many personalities in the industry have spent years building and would tantamount to wanton and illegal destruction of the most valuable asset of the business”.The plea has pointed out that the privacy of persons associated with Bollywood was being infringed daily. Private “facts” about lives of personalities were being dragged into the public domain and their private communication, including WhatsApp messages, were being illegally accessed and published in the public domain without authorisation, it has added. The Film & Television Producers Guild Of India (PGI), The Cine & TV Artistes’ Association (CINTAA), Indian Film and TV Producers Council (IFTPC), Screenwriters Association (SWA), Aamir Khan Productions, Ad-Labs Films, Ajay Devgn Fflims, Andolan Films, Anil Kapoor Film and Communication Network, Arbaaz Khan Productions, Ashutosh Gowariker Productions, BSK Network and Entertainment, Cape of Good Films, Clean Slate Filmz, Dharma Productions, Emmay Entertainment & Motion Pictures, Excel Entertainment , Filmkraft Productions, Hope Production, Kabir Khan Films, Luv Films, Macguffin Pictures, Nadiadwala Grandson Entertainment, One India Stories, R.S. Entertainment (Ramesh Sippy Entertainment),Rakeysh Omprakash Mehra Pictures, Red Chillies Entertainment, Reel Life Productions, Reliance Big Entertainment, Rohit Shetty Picturez, Roy Kapur Films, Salman Khan Films, Sikhya Entertainment, Sohail Khan Productions, Tiger Baby Digital, Vinod Chopra Films, Vishal Bhardwaj Pictures and Yashraj Films are the four industry associations and 34 leading Bollywood producers, respectively, who have moved the HC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/bollywood-drugs-case-delhi-high-court-to-hear-filmmakers-plea-against-media-trial-today/story-FU7qRLiX66Eo0B7M570xYP.html
09-11-2020||Kolkata||‘Mend your ways or be ready to lose your limbs’: Bengal BJP chief’s warning to TMC workers||West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh on Sunday promised to withdraw “false cases against political leaders” across the party spectrum if the BJP comes to power in West Bengal after the next year’s Assembly election.“In the first Cabinet meeting only, we will decide to withdraw every false political case, not only against the BJP workers, but also against the CPI(M), Congress, and even TMC leaders who were punished to stop them from joining the BJP,” Ghosh said while addressing a meeting in Haldia.He even lured the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) workers to his party fold, saying that they would be continued to be mistreated like this if they don’t leave the TMC. Further warning the “anti-social elements” in the ruling party to mend their ways, he added that the next Assembly election in the state will be conducted under the watch of the central forces.“We want to establish a democratic rule here. So the next elections will not be monitored by didi’s (Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee) police but that of dada’s (Prime Minister Narendra Modi). State police in Khaki dress will sit faraway chewing tobacco,” he quipped.He further warned the TMC workers “who haven’t mend their ways so far” to do so, otherwise, they lose their life, not just limbs. “Mend your ways within six months or be ready to lose your limbs and life in worse cases,” he threatened the ruling party workers.Citing the example of Bihar, where the Assembly elections just concluded, he said during RJD chief minister Lalu Prasad Yadav’s rule, there was a “jungle raj (rule of jungle)”, which changed to “democracy” during the NDA rule of the JD(U)-BJP coalition.“In Lalu raj, jungle raj prevailed in Bihar. People were murdered. In the NDA’s rule, we established democracy. Now there are no bombing and firing, no lathi charge or stone-pelting. This is called BJP’s raj (rule),” said Ghosh.West Bengal is slated to go for Assembly polls next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/false-cases-against-politicians-across-parties-will-be-withdrawn-if-elected-bengal-bjp-chief-ghosh/story-RYkRC17c9fPgWxhkIjUumK.html
09-11-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi’s Rajiv Chowk metro station witnesses long queues||Long queue of passengers were seen outside the Rajiv Chowk Metro Station on Sunday as they waited for their turn to enter the station.Metro passengers are in Delhi required to undergo thermal screening and hand sanitisation at the entry/frisking point itself. Thermal screening is done manually by ‘Thermal guns’.These numerous health checks have been mandated as part of preventive measures to combat coronavirus in the national capital and across the country.According to the Union health ministry, there are 40,258 active cases in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-delhi-s-rajiv-chowk-metro-station-witnesses-long-queues/story-twTa2gkh2Nf7ePWcw3jCIK.html
09-11-2020||Election:||‘Bankable’ Nitish’s poll appeal now under cloud||Whatever the results, the narrative for the Bihar state election is set. The election is for the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), the tie-up between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Janata Dal United (JD(U)), to lose. If the NDA does well, it will be due to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. If it does poorly, it will be due to chief minister Nitish Kumar.The sudden dip in Nitish Kumar’s popularity is confirmed with data. The Centre for Developing Societies (CSDS)-Lokniti found that satisfaction with Nitish’s performance as CM dropped from 80% in the 2015 Bihar post-poll to 52% in the pre-election poll in Bihar. Standard political punditry attributes this to “anti-incumbency” — but that just means his popularity has dropped, it is not an explanation as to why. After all, Nitish does not seem to have faced the same anti-incumbency in 2005 or 2010. So why now? Nitish Kumar has built his reputation as welfarist. Indeed, according to the Reserve Bank of India, Bihar’s social expenditure (a sum of social sector, development, and capital outlay) was more than 50% of its gross state domestic product (GSDP) in fiscal year 2019-2020, greater than any other large state in India. Since the election of Narendra Modi in 2014, we have seen long-serving welfarist chief ministers aligned to the BJP — like Shivraj Singh Chouhan and Raman Singh — lose. And the BJP or its coalition has seen double-digit drops in vote percentage in state elections as compared to national elections.In a recent paper written with my Centre for Policy Research (CPR) colleague Yamini Aiyar, we’ve argued that this has to do with the political centralisation of benefits and welfare schemes which are explicitly tied to the personage of Narendra Modi.Click here for complete coverage of Bihar assembly elections 2020In short, from the 2000s onward, fiscal decentralisation coupled with welfarist chief ministers created a winning electoral combination for state-level leaders. In certain states, voters attributed newfound welfare benefits to their chief ministers and continued to vote them back to power. But the centralisation around Modi has changed the game. Voters attribute their welfare benefits to the Centre and Narendra Modi, leaving welfarist chief ministers — particularly those aligned with BJP — without their main political appeal.The diminishing electoral appeal of Nitish Kumar has been evident ever since Modi came on the scene, even if we look beyond Nitish’s disastrous decision to contest the election alone in 2014. The above chart displays the contested vote share (the average vote share per assembly constituency contested) for the JD(U) in the 2010, 2015 state elections and the 2019 national election. The shaded boxes denote coalition partners for the JD(U). Notably, the JD(U) underperforms in contested vote share as compared to its major coalition partner in each election post-2014 (the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) in 2015 and BJP in 2019) but not so in 2010.The reasons for political appeal are difficult to discern from any polling data, but the CSDS-Lokniti pre-poll survey in Bihar offers some clues as to the relative political appeal of Nitish Kumar’s work and Narendra Modi’s work.When respondents were asked upon whose work they will base their vote, 16% of voters said the Nitish government while 27% of voters said the Modi government (with 29% saying the MLA). When just looking at NDA’s supporters, 33% said they would base their vote on work done by the Nitish government, with 42% basing their vote on the Modi government (and just 8% on the MLA’s work). In short, in the electorate as a whole — and even among NDA supporters — the main political appeal lies with Narendra Modi even with the scale of welfarist and development expenditure from Nitish Kumar’s government.As we look to the final results in the Bihar election, Nitish Kumar is saying is this will be his last election. Win or lose, the reality is that he is already finished. In a state in which politics has always relied on complicated caste calculations, Nitish does not command a formidable caste base, and his core political appeal has been lost to Narendra Modi. And his naked political opportunism has certainly not done him any favours.The sudden demise of Nitish’s political appeal should be a lesson to chief ministers across India.(The writer is an assistant professor, Ashoka University, and visiting senior fellow, Centre for Policy Research)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bankable-nitish-s-poll-appeal-now-under-cloud/story-f5dfOZwq402mkJbuAtDt7M.html
09-11-2020||Election:||In focus: Bihar’s Covid challenge||Images of campaigning in Bihar have suggested scant regard for what continues to be a raging Covid-19 pandemic. An HT analysis and expert views suggest that Bihar’s dubious testing strategy and poor medical infrastructure, combined with the time lag that could exist between a spread in infections and showing up of actual cases, could make it difficult to ascertain the impact of the polls on the pandemic. As the verdict on the election of the next government in the state is scheduled for Tuesday, we take a look at the challenges that face the next ruling dispensation.Bihar has been showing a fall in cases and positivity rateThe number of daily new Covid-19 cases in Bihar has been decreasing for more than two months after hitting a peak of over 4,000 new infections on August 11. It has reported only about 500 new cases per day on average recently. Bihar has also seen a big increase in the number of tests conducted. It has conducted more than11 million Covid-19 tests, second to only Uttar Pradesh. In terms of tests per million people, Bihar stood behind 31 states and union territories by the end of August, when it had conducted 4,586 tests per million people, nearly a fourth of the national average.Click here for full coverage of Bihar Assembly Election 2020By the end of October, Bihar had tested 88,941 per million people, higher than the national average of 86,325, and now behind only 19 states. The growth in the number of tests has come with a drop in the positivity rate, which is the share of tests that come positive. It peaked at 17% at the end of July and has been less than 2% for about two months now. The World Health Organization says the positivity rate from a region that has a comprehensive testing programme should be at or below 5% for at least two weeks before it can be considered that the outbreak is under control. But its testing strategy is dubiousWhile the headline numbers on Bihar’s Covid-19 situation suggest that the situation is under control, the actual picture could be worse. Bihar’s testing strategy has been characterised by a big reliance on rapid antigen tests, which comprise nearly 90% of the Covid-19 tests conducted in the state. On any given day in September and October, rapid antigen tests had a share of anywhere between 81%-92% of the total tests conducted. Rapid antigen tests are less reliable because they are significantly more likely to throw up false negatives – infected persons showing up as uninfected – for people who are infected with low viral load. Also read | Bihar polls: People will send message that jobs, inflation key issues, says P ChidambaramAccording to the Harvard Medical School, the reported rate of false negatives in antigen tests could be as high as 50%. A Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (or RT-PCR) test is seen as the gold standard in Covid-19 testing. But RT-PCRs are more time-taking and expensive. A share of rapid antigen tests is bound to bring down positivity rates, while the RT-PCR tests tend to result in a higher positivity rate. This holds for Bihar as well. Bihar fares the worst in health care infrastructureAccording to data shared by the government in September during the monsoon session of Parliament regarding Covid-19-related health care infrastructure, Bihar had the lowest number of isolation and intensive care unit beds per million people in India. Bihar is a laggard in terms of patients seeking treatment and registration of deaths, which makes it less likely to detect infections in hospitals. According to the latest Sample Registration System data (for 2018), 32% people who died in Bihar had received medical treatment before death, the lowest in India. About 35% of deaths in Bihar are registered. This, too, is the lowest in India. There is a medically certified cause of death in only 13.6% of the registered deaths in Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/in-focus-bihar-s-covid-challenge/story-KZP44qaFblNwiBlsP8La5I.html
09-11-2020||Delhi||Record 7,745 fresh coronavirus infections in Delhi||Delhi reported 7,745 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Sunday, the biggest jump in infections so far, even as the Capital’s health minister said that the city appeared to be hitting the peak of the third wave, which was the worst one so far.The alarming jump in cases came just two days after the national Capital recorded more than 7,000 cases in a single day for the first time ever. On Saturday, it added 6,953 cases. Heavy crowds could be seen at markets across the Capital on Sunday, just days ahead of the festival of Diwali.With Sunday’s alarming jump in cases, Delhi’s total number of cases rose to 438,529, and 77 new deaths took the toll to 6,989. While 50,754 tests were conducted, the positivity rate soared to 15.26%, said the government’s health bulletin.Experts have stressed the need for the Delhi government to further increase testing and said that a fast-rising positivity rate is an indicator that a region is not testing adequately. They have also warned that daily cases in Delhi could go up to 15,000 a day during the ongoing festival season and the winter months.“The third wave of Covid-19 is at its peak in Delhi. The number of cases suggests it is the worst wave so far. But the cases will come down soon,” Jain said during an official visit to Rajasthan’s Dungarpur. He attributed the increase in the Covid-19 numbers to the government’s “aggressive testing and contact-tracing” policies.Jain said that the first wave hit its peak on June 23 (3,947 cases) and the second on September 17 (4,432 cases). He said the Delhi government currently has no plans yet to rope in hotels and banquet halls to augment the bed capacity for Covid-19 patients as they have already increased the number of beds in hospitals.Currently, there are 16,167 general hospital beds and 3,305 intensive care unit (ICU) beds dedicated for Covid-19 patients in more than 100 hospitals – both public and private – in Delhi. Of these, 8,064 general beds and 2,661 ICU beds were occupied on Sunday evening, government records showed.The government recently added 500 general beds and 110 ICU beds in 10 government hospitals, and 685 beds for Covid-19 patients in three private hospitals. On September 22, the Delhi high court stayed the Delhi government’s order to increase ICU beds in private hospitals. Last week, the Delhi government filed a special leave petition (SLP) in the Supreme Court to lift the stay on the reservation of beds in private hospitals.Jain said that slackness on the part of the people was one of the reasons behind the surge. “Some people think nothing will happen to them if they don’t wear a mask,” he added.The case trajectory in Delhi shows three distinct surges. The first started in mid-June, and peaked when the seven-day average of daily cases, also known as the case trajectory, touched around 3,400 in the last week of June. This dropped to about 1,000 a day by the end of July. It remained in that range for a month, and the second surge started towards the end of August, rising till the middle of September, when average daily cases touched 4,174.Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology and communicable diseases, Indian Council of Medical Research, said: “The increased rate indicates high transmission rate of the virus at this point. To some extent it also indicates that the government is currently testing a higher proportion of high-risk individuals, which include close contacts of Covid-19 positive cases. People should not let their guard down. They should strictly wear masks and maintain social distancing. By the current trends, it seems that the spike in cases would continue for another three to four weeks unless the government takes a call on imposing restrictions again on non-essential activities.”The National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) – in a report drafted in October along with NITI Aayog member Dr VK Paul, who is an adviser to the central government – had warned that Delhi needed to be prepared for about 15,000 fresh Covid-19 cases daily, taking into account the winter season-related respiratory problems, large influx of patients from outside and festival-related gatherings.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/record-7-745-fresh-coronavirus-infections-in-delhi/story-4aKXmKHoBE9ljIsvXBe50L.html
09-11-2020||City||Srinagar-bound flight makes emergency landing in Chandigarh||GoAir’s flight from Delhi to Srinagar on Saturday made an emergency landing at the Chandigarh international airport as a woman passenger developed a medical emergency. The passenger was de-boarded and after being treated at local private hospital boarded the flight to Srinagar on Sunday. According to the airport authority, the GoAir flight that took off from Delhi at 11.30am had to make emergency landing at the Chandigarh airport around 12.15pm after a woman in her mid 40s experienced heart-related problem and her blood pressure dropped drastically. With the contract of Fortis hospital, Mohali, ending with the Chandigarh airport for rendering medical emergency services on September 25, there is neither any permanent medical emergency service nor an ambulance available at the airport. On Saturday, the authorities said that the flight made an SOS call to ATC Chandigarh, demanding permission to make an emergency landing after the passenger developed complications. After undergoing treatment for 24 hours, the passenger boarded the GoAir flight to Srinagar on Sunday, an official said. CHIAL CEO Ajay Bhardwaj said, “We provided an ambulance to the passenger who was taken to the hospital. She was discharged and we helped her to board the flight to Srinagar at 3pm on Sunday.” He said that tenders for the airport medical inspection room have been floated and they have started receiving the bids to manage and operate the facility as well as provision of 24x7 ambulance services. He said at present, doctors of Mohali civil hospital are on duty and ambulance from a private hospital is at disposal. Currently, there are two state-sponsored doctors at the airport, who check the temperature of the incoming passengers. They do not have any emergency medical equipment or medicines. The domestic flight operations had resumed at the airport on May 25 after a gap of nearly three months. Before the lockdown, the airport saw at least 12,000 passengers, both at arrivals and departures, daily. The number has since come down to 3,000 a day. While 44 domestic and two international flights (Sharjah and Dubai) used to arrive and depart from the airport before March 23, only six to eight flights operate daily these days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/srinagar-bound-flight-makes-emergency-landing-in-chandigarh/story-G9iDu9MwUKJahJL8lS5DvJ.html
09-11-2020||Mumbai||Second Covid-19 wave can hit like tsunami, warns Maharashtra CM||Even as chief minister Uddhav Thackeray expressed the possibility of a potential second wave of Covid-19 infections, Maharashtra continued with its trend of dip in cases over the past few weeks, reporting 5,052 new cases that took the tally to 17,19,858 on Sunday. With the addition of 110 new deaths, the state’s toll touched 45,240.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday warned people not to lower their guard, as the second wave could prove to be a ‘tsunami’. “We will have to follow the three-point protocol of social distancing, masking the face and washing hands to keep the spread of the virus at the bay. Diwali is coinciding with the onset of winter which sees a drop in the temperature. Countries like Italy, Spain, England and the Netherlands have been witnessing the second wave of Covid-19 that are more severe than the first ones. We do not want it to emerge in Maharashtra and it is possible only if we continue our disciplined appearance in public life. The state machinery is ready to take up the burden of the surge, but common people too should adopt Covid-appropriate behaviour,” he said during his public address through social media on Sunday.Mumbai crossed the 1,000 mark after a week, with 1,003 cases taking the tally to 2,64,545. The death toll touched 10,445 after the addition of 23 new deaths. Pune district continued to report second highest cases by adding 512 cases (216 in city, 185 in rural parts and 111 in Pimpri-Chichwad). Pune also reported 15 deaths. Nagpur logged 452 cases, Nashik 420 and Ahmednagar 196. With 1,771 cases in the past 24 hours, Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) accounted for 35.05% of the total cases in the state.The number of active patients fell to 96,373 after 8,232 patients were reported to have recovered in the past 24 hours. The number of active patients in Pune dropped below Mumbai as Pune has 17,279 active patients, while the later has 17,603. State’s recovery rate improved to 91.71%, while the case fatality rate stands at 2.63%. The CM also warned of strict action against violation of Covid-19 guidelines. “A positive patient can further infect 400 people and they again infect many in multiplicity. We have directed the machinery to take strict action against people not wearing masks.” Dr Avinash Supe, head of the state-appointed death audit committee, said they do not expect the surge to be as high as witnessed in September. “Varying temperatures with more than 10 degrees, which is witnessed in Mumbai, helps virus grow faster. Besides, the pollution recorded during Diwali, crowding during festivals and opening up of activities will lead to a rise in cases by November-end. The spike depends on the discipline maintained by people and is manageable if people follow the Covid-19 guidelines well.”A total of 62,004 tests were performed in the past 24 hours with the daily positivity rate of 8.14%, though the overall positivity rate stands at 18.22%. The state has 10,51,321 people under home quarantine and 7,912 in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/second-covid-19-wave-can-hit-like-tsunami-warns-maharashtra-cm/story-4ES6qeBExQzTDSr7W0ceSL.html
09-11-2020||City||Ambala MC polls: Amisha Chawla is Haryana Democratic Front’s mayoral candidate||The Haryana Democratic Front (HDF) has formally announced its mayoral candidate for the upcoming municipal corporation (MC) polls in Ambala.The party, which is the first one to pick its candidate, has decided to field Amisha Chawla, wife of former councillor Dilip Chawla.Party’s founder and former minister Nirmal Singh, while addressing a press conference on Sunday, said, “Ambala residents will vote directly for the mayor seat for the first time and we welcome the move. The HDF will fight on local issues and is open for everyone who supported us during the assembly elections. We are in talks with the INLD and the BSP to contest together in these elections,” Nirmal, a four-time former MLA, said. Taking a jibe at the local MLA, Amisha Chawla said, “Just inaugurating and beautifying some chowks doesn’t benefit the citizens if adjoining roads are still broken.” Her husband Dilip said, “By announcing the candidate for the post of mayor, Nirmal Singh has shown that the HDF is serious about the polls and the move has left no scope for infighting. This gives more time to the candidate to meet people and understand the problems.” The party, meanwhile, also announced its organisational structure at various blocks and districts, most importantly a committee for the selection of applicants for contesting the elections on HDF ticket. Former general secretary of the Youth Congress and former municipal commissioner Himmat Singh has been made its head.The party will also celebrate its first foundation day on Tuesday and the event at the Panchayat Bhawan is expected to witness political leaders from various parties.Ambala MC polls are pending since 2018, when its tenure ended. There were 20 wards under the Ambala MC, of which 11 were in the city area and nine in the Sadar area of cantonment. But in 2019, the corporation was divided into Ambala municipal corporation and Ambala Sadar municipal council.MC’s last mayor Ramesh Mal was from the Congress, but joined the BJP in October last year, just before the assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ambala-mc-polls-amisha-chawla-is-haryana-democratic-front-s-mayoral-candidate/story-etAVGG0fsdfpRAuGHlCjeO.html
09-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC to set up winter shelter homes||The Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) has started the process of setting up winter night shelters. The waterproof facility will come up at a cost of around ₹1.18 crore in different parts of the city to house destitute people and migrant workers.For this purpose, the MC has already floated a tender to invite firms to build the shelters near Sector 22 market, ISBTs at sectors 17 and 43, and hospitals like PGIMER, GMCH-32 and GMSH-16. The shelters are generally readied for around three months of winter season. Last year, the MC had set up these in December, which came under criticism for being late as temperature had already fallen sharply by then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-to-set-up-winter-shelter-homes/story-AqMuBqPYRhfmHyoPV0qDUP.html
09-11-2020||Mumbai||2018 suicide abetment case: Arnab Goswami moved from Alibag centre to Taloja jail||Republic TV’s editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami, arrested in connection with a 2018 suicide abetment case, was shifted from Alibag’s quarantine centre to Taloja jail on Sunday morning. Kaushtubh Kurlekar, superintendent of police, Taloja jail, said, “He will be kept in a quarantine centre inside the jail for a few days before being shifted to a barrack.” The Alibag police arrested Goswami along with two other accused, Feroz Shaikh and Nitesh Sarda, from Mumbai on November 4. They were produced in the Alibag magistrate court, which remanded them in judicial custody till November 18. Goswami was then taken to the Alibag police station and was later shifted to the Alibag primary school, which has been turned into a makeshift Covid-19 quarantine centre for the Alibag prison. The security was increased outside the quarantine centre on Sunday morning, as Goswami moved out in a police van around 10am. The Alibag police had challenged the magistrate court’s order and filed a revision application seeking police custody of Goswami, Shaikh and Sarda. The hearing was held on Saturday, but was adjourned till November 9. Goswami, meanwhile, moved the Bombay high court, questioning his arrest and sought immediate relief. His legal team argued that Goswami’s arrest and detention were illegal as the case was closed in April 2019. Shaikh and Sarda too moved high court challenging their arrests. After hearing the arguments, the Bombay high court on Saturday reserved its order on the interim bail plea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2018-suicide-abetment-case-arnab-goswami-moved-from-alibag-centre-to-taloja-jail/story-kGFiYLrQU8UtrucGKapngN.html
09-11-2020||Mumbai||9,000 Mumbaiites undergo free Covid-19 tests at civic body centres in 5 days||Around 9,000 Mumbaiites got themselves tested at the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) 244 free Covid-19 testing centres in the past five days. Of these, only 375 people (4.2%) were found positive for Covid-19. The 244 centres have pushed Covid-19 testing in the city to 14,000-16,000 tests each day in November from 6,000-7,000 in July. On November 1, BMC had announced to start free testing centres across the 24 administrative wards. Citizens who develop Covid-like symptoms such as cough, cold, fever, difficulties in breathing and pneumonia, or have recently come in contact with a coronavirus patient can approach any of these 244 facilities and get themselves tested for the virus free of cost. Majority of the tests conducted at these new locations were conducted through rapid antigen kits. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said, “We have received a good response to our testing facilities and each ward has a minimum of six-seven of these centres. We will keep monitoring these facilities and find out the locations which receive high response. Accordingly, we will create more awareness and deploy more of our teams.”Since September, the BMC has been conducting between 8,000 and 15,000 Covid-19 tests every day, of which 30-40% are rapid antigen tests. The civic body has now set up a target to conduct up to 24,000 Covid-19 tests daily.Meanwhile on Sunday, Mumbai reported 1,003 Covid-19 cases, which took the tally to 264,545. Of these, 17,603 are active cases, while 235,776 patients have recovered. The toll surged to 10,445 after 23 deaths were reported on Sunday. The recovery rate stands at 90% and the case fatality rate is 3.9%. The positivity rate has slipped from 18.15% in September to 16.34% in November. City’s doubling rate now stands at 241 days. On Sunday, Dharavi, one of the former hot spots, reported 10 Covid-19 cases, taking its tally to 3,599.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/9-000-mumbaiites-undergo-free-covid-19-tests-at-civic-body-centres-in-5-days/story-O3KYm5XIOu8VdTdrWJQ9OK.html
09-11-2020||Chandigarh||Gupkar alliance befooling people on seeking restoration of Article 370: BJP||The Bharatiya Janata Party lashed out at the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) on Sunday, a day after the alliance announced it would contest the upcoming first-ever District Development Council (DDC) polls in Jammu and Kashmir unitedly, saying it is only after power and is befooling people about seeking the restoration of the erstwhile state’s special status.Terming the alliance the “Gupkar Gang”, Jammu and Kashmir BJP’s general secretary and Kashmir affairs in-charge Vibodh Gupta said the parties in it are after power and people should understand their intentions.“If the alliance is against the Constitution of India, then how come is this gang fighting the DDC election under the same Constitution? Those who will emerge as winners will have to take oath under the very Constitution that the Gupkar Gang is opposing,” Gupta told reporters at a press conference here.He said the PAGD’s decision to contest the DDC polls reflects the “dual politics” being played by it. “This is how the Gupkar Gang is playing cheap politics and trying to befool people. On one hand, they want to remain in the system and gain power, but on the other hand, they are opposing the same Constitution under which they are supposed to take oath,” he said.He said the alliance is afraid of the saffron party’s “growing popularity” in J&K and thus, has decided to stay united against it in the DDC polls. “Ultimately, they showed their intention that this gang has been formed to come back to power because they cannot remain without power. We also welcome this.”“They said they will not allow the BJP to win in the Kashmir valley. Now, the BJP has become the greatest challenge to the alliance in the Valley. I thank the workers of the BJP for this because they have risked their lives to realise Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision of peace, progress and development in Jammu and Kashmir,” Gupta said, adding that people should understand the intentions of the National Conference (NC) and People’s Democratic Party (PDP) leaders.Referring to PDP president Mehbooba Mufti’s remarks that she would not hold the national flag till the flag of the erstwhile state was restored, Gupta said if her party workers win in the DDC polls, they will have to take oath under the tricolour.Gupta demanded that an FIR be lodged against NC vice-president Omar Abdullah.“Omar has said their fight is for the rights of the people and not for elections. So what has happened now? Also, his another painful statement that the youngsters of Kashmir will again pick up guns -- I want to ask him, who was responsible for the youth picking up guns in 1989? Jammu and Kashmir has had your governments for the last 60-70 years. This is a provocative statement and I demand an FIR be registered against him by the police. He does not want the bloodshed to end here and let Kashmir grow and prosper,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gupkar-alliance-befooling-people-on-seeking-restoration-of-article-370-bjp/story-2JsbMa3qpLJZV2zvup2QxM.html
09-11-2020||Chandigarh||Probe ordered after medicines for Covid patients found abandoned in J&K||Authorities in Bhaderwah area of Jammu and Kashmir’s Doda district have ordered a probe after medicines from hospital supply, worth lakhs of rupees, were found abandoned at several places along Neeru River, officials said on Sunday.The medicines, reportedly meant for the distribution among the Covid-19 patients, were noticed by people after hundreds of fish died under mysterious circumstances and were found floating in the river near Gupta Ganga temple, Parnala and Atal-garh area, the officials said.“We have taken serious note of it and a fact finding team has been constituted to probe the incident and those found guilty will be dealt with iron hands,” additional deputy commissioner, Bhaderwah, Rakesh Kumar said.Kumar, who is himself heading the fact finding team, said the hospital authorities have maintained that even the expired medicines are not thrown anywhere but properly disposed every month in presence of senior officers.“We found hundreds of strips of different medicines floating at several places and raised an alarm as hundreds of fish had died mysteriously in the recent past,” Neeraj Singh Manhas, a resident of Atalgarh, said.He said the medicines include hydroxy chloroquine, azithromycin, betamethazone, paractemol, zinc tablets having expiry of 2022.“It clearly indicates that the medicines were meant for Covid patients and have been dumped in water body for unknown reasons…May be the delivery man did not want to visit the Covid patient,” Manhas said.Demanding stern action against those involved, the locals said the responsibility should be immediately fixed and those who have committed the crime should be put behind the bars.Block medical officer, Bhadarwah, Hamid Zargar said the hospital authorities are not responsible for this as the medicines were meant for Covid positive patients and were given to the staff to deliver to patients at their doorsteps.“This is very unfortunate incident and we are trying to trace the batch number of the medicines recovered from the river and we will also initiate a departmental inquiry on Monday,” Zargar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/probe-ordered-after-medicines-for-covid-patients-found-abandoned-in-j-k/story-6xtC0Q439Dn9hb6ZoaeU8K.html
09-11-2020||Mumbai||MPCB report out: Did Mumbai really breathe easy in 2019-20?||The concentration of oxides of nitrogen (NOx) and respirable suspended particulate matter (PM10) in 2019-20 was the lowest in 11 years, an annual report by the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) has revealed. According to the Air Quality Status Report 2019-20, PM10 concentration fell from 178 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m3) in 2009-10 to 121 µg/m3 in 2017-18, 129 µg/m3 in 2018-19, and 95 µg/m3 in 2019-20. Likewise, NOx levels fell from 99 µg/m3 in 2009-10 to 75 µg/m3 in 2018-19 and 47 µg/m3 in 2019-20. The report has revealed that Mumbai’s NOx levels declined by 37%, while the PM10 level dropped by 26% from last year. Meanwhile, PM2.5 levels – tiny pollutant particles of 2.5 micron size that are most dangerous – were below permissible limits across all the 11 real-time ambient air quality monitoring stations in Mumbai in 2019-20. The annual sulphur dioxide (SO2) concentration in the city ranged within 7 µg/m3 and 16 µg/m3, far below the annual limit of 50 µg/m3. PM10 pollutants, which are solid and liquid particles, pose a great risk to human health as they can enter deep into the lungs during respiration and some may even reach the bloodstream. NOx pollutants, which are majorly caused due to vehicular emissions, lead to reduced lung function and oxygenation of body tissues. “With the focus being laid on tighter emission norms, enhanced monitoring, on-ground implementation of directions issued by MPCB, adherence to directives under the action plan, and several awareness programmes focused towards achieving clean air, Mumbai has managed to address specific emission sources that led to a decline in PM,” said VM Motghare, joint director (air quality), MPCB. “However, a lot more needs to be done to bring the levels below safe limits and the recent funds sanctioned by the Centre (₹244 crore) will help in achieving this.” Though the year-on-year air quality trends have shown positive trends in PM10 and NOx levels for the entire city, location-specific levels across 11 stations in Mumbai revealed that PM10 pollutant levels were above permissible limits in 2019-20 in every station, while nine stations had unsafe limits for NOx. The area around the international airport in Sahar, Andheri, had the worst NOx concentration (87 µg/m3) across Maharashtra, followed by Sion and Kurla at 79 µg/m3 and 76 µg/m3 respectively. “Necessary steps, especially towards curbing vehicular emissions, are being undertaken to mitigate the issue of NOx pollution,” said Motghare. For PM10, highest levels were recorded at Kurla (140 µg/m3) followed by Sion (117 µg/m3), Sahar (116 µg/m3), and Mulund (103 µg/m3). The remaining stations recorded concentration in the range of 64 µg/m3 and 98 µg/m3. The safe limit for PM10 is 60 µg/m3. In Mumbai, all observations were made from April 2019 to March 2020 where MPCB analysed the air quality index (AQI) range for the period for 11 monitoring stations. MPCB categorises AQI levels in the 0-50 range as good; 51-100 as satisfactory; 101-200 as moderate; 201-300 as poor; 301-400 as very poor and above 400 as severe. Overall areas around Kurla, Sion, the airport, Bandra and Sion were most polluted in 2019-20. Very poor AQI was observed only at Bandra (one day) and Sion (six days) during 2019-20. Poor AQI was reported for most observations at Kurla (19%), followed by airport area (14%) and Sion (13%). Moderate AQI was observed at Kurla and Mulund for more than 50% observations, while Powai, Sion and Vile Parle recorded around 30% observations. Worli and Colaba recorded 35% moderate AQI observations. Good AQI was recorded for only 21% of total observations in Mumbai with maximum good air days at Borivli (43%) and minimum at Kurla (3.8%). Independent experts who studied the report said that the analysis indicated that Mumbai still needed stringent action to control NOx and PM, and bring them to safe annual average limits. “Overall, the pollution curve peaks during November to February when the monthly averages of PM and NOx levels go above the indicative annual standards,” said Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment, Delhi. She added that the rise in NOx indicates the impact of increasing traffic and motorisation, even as the overall annual PM2.5 was lower than the standards though the monthly averages increase during winter. “It is not clear how the ratio between PM10 and PM2.5 is changing over time. However, the analysis indicates that Mumbai will require stringent time bound action on vehicles and public transport, construction activities, industrial units, waste management and solid fuel use for cooking. This data is on ambient concentration which is greatly influenced by the sea breeze. But local exposures are expected to be high and that requires mapping of hotspot pollution and action,” said Chowdhury. PM 10 concentration for Mumbai – annual average 2009-10 – 178 µg/m3 2017-18 – 121 µg/m3 2018-19 – 129 µg/m3 2019-20 – 95 µg/m3 NOx concentration for Mumbai – annual average 2009-10 – 99 µg/m3 2017-18 – 60 µg/m3 2018-19 – 75 µg/m3 2019-20 – 47 µg/m3 Most-polluted locations in the city For PM 10 – 60 µg/m3 (annual safe limit) Kurla - 140 µg/m3 Sion – 117 µg/m3 Mumbai international airport – 116 µg/m3 For NOx – 40 µg/m3 (annual safe limit) Mumbai international airport - 87 µg/m3 (Also highest in state) Sion – 79 µg/m3 Kurla – 76 µg/m3 (Source: Air Quality Status Report 2019-20) Important report findings for Maharashtra There are 23 real-time air monitoring stations in Maharashtra Nine stations in Maharashtra (up from six in 2018-19) – Aurangabad, Kalyan, Kolhapur, Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Nagpur, Pune, Raigad and Thane – recorded annual average NOx concentrations which were higher than the prescribed annual average limit 17 stations in Maharashtra recorded PM10 levels above safe limits. Chandrapur (Ghuggus -204 µg/m3, Rajura – 171 µg/m3), Thane (Kopri – 154 µg/m3, Naupada – 153 µg/m3, Balkum/Glaxo – 140 µg/m3) were the most-polluted locations for PM10 pollutant PM2.5 concentration for all the 23 locations was below safe standards (40 µg/m3). Kalyan and Karve Road, Pune, recorded annual average PM2.5 concentrations at 40 µg/m3 Ozone pollution showed Chandrapur, Kalyan, Mahape, Mulund and Nagpur had higher concentrations than the safe limit of 100 µg/m3 For benzene pollution, 11 locations Bandra, Colaba, Dombivli, Mahape, Nagpur, Nashik, Nerul, Kalyan, Kurla, Sion and Worli recorded concentration above the safe limit (5 µg/m3) during several intervals in 2019-20 Bandra, Dombivli, Nagpur, Kalyan and Solapur exceeded the eight-hour safe concentration for carbon monoxide (CO) standard of 2 µg/m3. (Source: Air Quality Status Report 2019-20)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mpcb-report-out-did-mumbai-really-breathe-easy-in-2019-20/story-MQtvU1ax2q9UKvmJJfqsnM.html
09-11-2020||City||J&K darbar move: UT admin to start functioning in Jammu today||The civil secretariat, the seat of Jammu and Kashmir administration, will open here on Monday after functioning in summer capital Srinagar for six months as part of the nearly 150-year-old practice known in the Union territory as ‘Darbar Move’.Adequate arrangements, especially those related to security, have been put in place to ensure smooth functioning of the civil secretariat and other move offices including the Raj Bhavan and police headquarters in Jammu, officials said.The Covid-19 pandemic delayed the darbar move from Jammu to Srinagar this summer. The civil secretariat and other move offices, which observe a five-day week, closed in Srinagar on October 30, while the offices observing a six-day week closed the next day.All the offices are reopening in Jammu on November 9.The practice of ‘Darbar Move’ —under which the administration functions in Jammu during six months of winter and in Srinagar during summer—was started by Maharaja Gulab Singh in 1872 to escape extreme weather conditions in the two regions of the state.However, the practice was continued even after Independence with the aim of providing governance benefits to both Kashmir and Jammu regions for six months by turns.Inspector general of police, Jammu zone, Mukesh Singh chaired a meeting on Thursday evening to review security arrangements for the opening of the move offices and directed his officers to ensure elaborate security measures in the entire Jammu district, including border areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-darbar-move-ut-admin-to-start-functioning-in-jammu-today/story-uJirDm2ycqdDkjM73VFYwO.html
09-11-2020||City||Home delivery of HSRP, colour-coded fuel stickers begins in city||New Delhi The service of doorstep delivery and fitment of high security registration plates (HSRP) and colour-coded fuel stickers started in Delhi on Sunday.Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot had last month directed for stopping the online booking after complaints were received from vehicle owners about delays in getting HSRP and fuel stickers affixed. The online booking facility resumed on November 1, along with the doorstep delivery in some parts of Delhi -- Mayur Vihar, Patparganj, Anand Vihar, Laxmi Nagar, Janak Puri, Rajouri Garden, Punjabi Bagh and Kirti Nagar.A senior official of Rosmerta Safety Systems Private Limited (RSSPL), one of the three HSRP manufacturers, said that by 5 pm on Sunday, doorstep delivery of HSRP and fuel stickers and the affixing job was done on 275 vehicles, and by 8 pm total 349 scheduled fitments were expected to be completed, including 13 cases on which the booking was for sticker only.There are around 3.2 million vehicles in Delhi – both commercial and private – which are supposed to have high-security registration plates. They include around 1.1 million four-wheelers, 1.9 million two-wheelers and the rest include auto-rickshaws, e-rickshaws, buses, trucks, etc. The rule applies largely to vehicles registered before April 1, 2019, as most newer vehicles (registered after April 1, 2019) come equipped with HSRPs and stickers, said a Delhi government transport department official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/home-delivery-of-hsrp-colour-coded-fuel-stickers-begins-in-city/story-4UJR9oOJ8iWO30bS7PpujK.html
09-11-2020||Delhi||Legal tag to unauthorised colonies hits O zone hurdle||The wait to get ownership of their properties has just got longer for residents of nearly 76 unauthorised colonies in Delhi, which are among the 1,731 colonies approved by the Centre under PM-UDAY.The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has decided to temporarily suspend the application process of these unauthorised colonies, as they fall in the O zone, which is the Yamuna floodplain area, as per the Master Plan of Delhi-2021.The decision was taken after several ownership applications from residents of unauthorised colonies in Jaitpur, Badarpur, Okhla, Karawal Nagar, etc were rejected by the DDA due to the master plan provision.DDA vice-chairman Anurag Jain said that unauthorised colonies falling in the O zone and the floodplain are in the prohibited category as per 2019 regulation for ownership rights.Jain said, “We have issued directions to the survey agencies to not undertake surveys in the unauthorised colonies falling in the O zone till we resolve the issue. We are also issuing circulars informing the public representatives and the resident welfare associations about it.”But there is growing discontent among residents of these unauthorised colonies. Rajesh Roy, 45, a resident of Harsh Vihar, Meetapur, in South Delhi’s Badarpur area, said that he received a message on September 30 from the DDA stating that his application has been rejected as the colony falls in O zone.“Why did the DDA get our properties surveyed if they can’t process our applications due to the O zone? They should have not accepted our applications in the first place. We have spent so much money and time in getting the documents ready. I was shocked to receive that message. The money paid for the survey is non-refundable,” said Roy, who works as an accountant in a private firm.Roy, who bought his two-storeyed house in 2003, said, “We were so happy when the scheme was announced last year, as finally we could get the registry done. But we are back to square one.”A few kilometers away in Jaitpur, Kamal Dev (53), who has a three-storeyed house in Ekta Vihar, said that he has been running from pillar to post since July, when his application was rejected to know what can be done now. “I spent Rs 6,000 to get the paperwork done, including Rs 1,180 on the survey. I have been to several DDA offices, but they don’t tell me clearly what can be done,” said Dev, who has been living here for the past 25 years.With the DDA resuming the process, field surveys were put on hold due to Coronavirus pandemic in March, in June, applicants are now getting to know the status of their applications. Till October 23, the DDA has issued 1946 conveyance deeds and authorisation slips to residents of unauthorised colonies in Delhi. No application in the O zone was approved, said an official. Jain said that those whose applications have got rejected need not worry. “The residents whose applications have been rejected on this ground (‘O’ zone) alone need not worry. As and when we commence the process again, we will permit them to revive their applications on the basis of the survey already done. They will not have to pay for the survey again.”BJP MLA Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, leader of the opposition in the Delhi assembly, along with Karawal Nagar MLA Mohan Singh Bisht on Wednesday met Union housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri and the DDA vice-chairman to discuss the issue.Bidhuri said, “We have requested the minister to direct the DDA to remove these colonies from the ‘O’ zone so that lakhs of people living in these colonies can benefit PM-UDAY. We also met the DDA V-C in this regard There are 100-odd colonies affected due to the ‘O’ zone.”But people in these colonies demand concrete action. Anil Sharma, Meetapur resident who has formed an association to push for denotification of the colony from O zone, said the colony is more than a 1.5km from the floodplain. “This was agricultural land, but we are still placed in O zone. Due to this, several development projects are stuck. People believed in the central government’s promise and applied for ownership rights. But now they feel cheated, as their applications are now being rejected. People are very upset and are planning a protest.”Jain said that in 2013, the DDA had approved a proposal to remove these unauthorised colonies from the O zone and put then and E and F zones. But the process was stayed by the National Green Tribunal and the principal committee was directed to review it. “We are in the process of preparing a detailed report which we will present before the NGT’s principal committee to remove these colonies from the O zone. When the committee accepts and approves it, then the process to grand ownership rights will commence again,” Jain said. Urban planner AK Jain, former planning commission DDA, said that these areas were put in the O zone after careful, detailed study by various agencies. “These colonies have come up illegally on the floodplain, which has been earmarked after detailed studies by various agencies. There is a need to carefully study the pros and cons before removing these colonies from the O zone. The ridge and the river zones are sacrosanct and should be retained and conserved. In case of a flood, these areas are prone to liquefaction and result in large scale damage.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/legal-tag-to-unauthorised-colonies-hits-o-zone-hurdle/story-ezr5AxHLtfMOqS8xwWzhLP.html
09-11-2020||City||Modi to unveil Vivekananda statue on JNU campus on November 12||New Delhi: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will digitally unveil a statue of Swami Vivekananda on Jawaharlal Nehru University campus on November 12. “The unveiling of the statue will be preceded by a programme on Swami Vivekananda from 5.30 pm onwards,” said Rector III RP Singh on Sunday.JNU vice-chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar tweeted, “JNU is delighted to announce that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will unveil (through Video Conference) the life-size statue of Swami Vivekananda in the University campus on Thursday 6:30 p.m. The event will be live-streamed on JNU’s Facebook.” He also said that Swami Vivekananda inspired citizens “to take pride in Indian civilization, culture and its industrious spirit.”While the university maintains that the proposal for the statue was “unanimously approved” by Executive Council members in 2017, a section of the JNU community – including students and teachers – had raised questions on funding for the statue.Former JNU students’ union president N Sai Balaji, who is currently pursuing his PhD from the university, had submitted multiple Right To Information (RTI) applications during his tenure in 2018-2019 seeking details on the funding.“The RTI responses revealed that the statue did not have necessary permission from the Estate branch or forest department as many trees were cut for erecting the statue. Besides, we want money for libraries and books on these leaders for academic engagement. If the alumni has indeed funded the statue, why is there no transparency over it? The JNU community should have information on this.”Reacting to the allegations, Rector RP Singh said, “The proposal for this statue was given by the engineering department and it was unanimously approved by the Executive Council in June 2017 after discussion over it. No JNU funds are being used for the installation or the making of the statue. JNU alumni came forward and made this marvellous contribution for the campus.” Referring to the delay in the unveiling of the statue which has been lying covered since over a year, Singh said, “It was due to the ongoing work.”JNU Alumnus Manoj Kumar, a teacher of Political Science at Delhi University, is being credited as the one who conceptualized the project. “The JNU administration only provided the space and we took support and contributions from a lot of people for the statue. Even the statue makers offered a discount to us,” he said.Without sharing any details on the total cost of the statue, Kumar said, “Since 2005, I have been requesting different vice-chancellors to install a statue of Swami Vivekananda on campus as his philosophies have inspired the youth. But things couldn’t materialize until 2017.”In 2019, the statue was defaced during the fee hike protest by unidentified people. A First Information Report was registered in the matter and the complaint read that “objectionable messages coloured with political remarks” were written on the base of the statue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/modi-to-unveil-vivekananda-statue-on-jnu-campus-on-november-12/story-mP3tqpjwpTrUe55vSwKqEO.html
09-11-2020||Delhi||Govt to digitise records of all construction workers in city||The Delhi government has issued directions to ensure that all records of construction workers in the city are digitised for ease of registration in the welfare fund, which involves filing and verification of a list of documents and needs annual renewal, a senior government official said.“Since January 2019, the application process for the welfare fund was made online and applicants started filing soft copies. But till 2018, they used to submit photocopied papers in the labour offices. So, the digitisation move is expected to reduce paper load and files in the offices and also ensure ease of registration in the welfare fund which requires verification. Digital records are convenient for reference. It will speed up the process,” said the official.Being registered in the fund entitles construction workers to certain benefits — such as financial assistance for medical emergencies, death, marriages and education of children . The welfare fund came into focus during the lockdown that was imposed on March 25 to arrest the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and led to mass loss of jobs in construction and several other sectors. In Delhi, the board started disbursing ₹5,000 per month to the bank accounts of all workers enrolled under it during the lockdown . The government had then paid the registered workers Rs 5,000 each for three months during the lockdown.Construction workers — including plumbers and electricians employed in the construction sector, painters, those specialising in laying tiles, security guards at sites and those working on drainage systems, among others — aged between 18 and 60 years are eligible for registration under the scheme. To avail the programme, they need an official photo identity card, a bank account number, residential proof in Delhi and proof that they have worked in the construction sector for at least 90 days in 12 months prior to the registration.According to estimates of labour union bodies in the Capital, there are around 1 million construction workers. Government records, however, showed that more than 60,000 workers had registered for the welfare fund already.On May 21, the Delhi high court had directed the welfare board, which comes under the Delhi government’s labour department, to take steps to renew the membership of all its workers, so that all associated benefits help them cushion the loss of earnings during the lockdown. The court had observed that over 500,000 construction workers in Delhi, who fell off the safety net under the watch of the city’s welfare board, cannot be deprived of benefits just because they were unable to renew their annual registration formality.“Digitisation is good but there are severe problems in the online registration process which the government should fix before anything else. If one has to claim money for some emergency, there is no online form for that yet and currently offline forms are not being accepted. In the online process, there is also a limitation in appointing nominees. Apparently, the department is also understaffed. That too should be taken care of,” said Thaneshwar Dayal Adigaur, secretary of Delhi Asangathit Nirmaan Mazdoor union and member of an advisory committee to the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/govt-to-digitise-records-of-all-construction-workers-in-city/story-UsUgxHfj2cvtNu8DKdsuMP.html
09-11-2020||Delhi||Three roads accounted for 20% of all accident deaths last year: Report||Fourteen of the top 20 black spots in the city last year were located on the Outer Ring Road, Ring Road and GT Karnal Road – the three roads together accounting for 20% of all road accident deaths in the national capital.According to an annual report released by the Delhi Traffic Police, these three roads together witnessed 294 deaths in 2019, a year when road accident deaths in Delhi actually fell to a 30-year low of 1,463 — a 13.4% decrease from the previous year.While speed-reduction techniques led to some black spots seeing a significant reduction in fatalities from 2018 to 2019, a few others continued to report large number of deaths.Black spots are accident prone zones in a diameter of 500 metres. The Delhi Traffic Police usually considers an area as a black spot if it witnesses three or more fatalities or 10 or more accidents in a year.MUKUNDPUR CHOWK WORST Last year, Mukundpur Chowk — located on the Outer Ring Road — topped the list of black spots with 11 fatalities, followed by Nirankari Colony on the same stretch, which had nine deaths. Three other spots – Mukarba Chowk, Azadpur Sabzi Mandi and Signature Bridge in Timarpur – also featured in the top five list with eight deaths each.In their analysis of fatal accidents at these five spots, the traffic police cited high speed of vehicles as the primary reason and noted that pedestrians and two-wheeler riders accounted for most of the casualties. Overall too, pedestrians and motorcycle riders accounted for 46% and 34% of all road accidents deaths in Delhi last year.The list of black spots over the two years has seen some changes. Some spots such as ISBT Kashmere Gate, Kashmere Gate Chowk Boulevard Road and Bhalswa Chowk, for example, have seen a significant reduction in fatalities after ranking among the top three dangerous spots in 2018.The number of deaths in ISBT Kashmere Gate, for example, reduced from 10 to five and Kashmere Gate Chowk Boulevard Road dipped from nine to three last year.SPEED CALMING MEASURES HELPEDSewa Ram, the coordinator of Centre for Road Safety at the School of Planning and Architecture attributed the dip in ISBT Kashmere Gate and Kashmere Gate Chowk Boulevard Road to a host of speed reduction measures.“In Kashmere Gate, for example, transfer bench mark (white speed breakers) of a height of 5-15 mm have been set up to reduce the speed of vehicles, without being a danger for motorcycle riders,” said Sewa Ram.Taj Hassan, special commissioner of police (traffic), said that the traffic police have been constantly coordinating with civic agencies to improve the road engineering and enforce speed calming measures, among others. “That is one of the reasons we have had the lowest number of accidents and deaths in the last 30 years,” said Hassan.On the other hand, spots such as Mukundpur Chowk and Mukarba Chowk have continued to report high number of fatalities. Mukundpur Chowk, which topped the list of black spots, witnessed 11 deaths in 2019, compared to eight in the previous year.Sewa Ram said that the continuing high fatalities at these stretches were due to faulty road designs leading to speeding and subsequent accidents.“At Mukundpur Chowk, there is no arrangement to stop vehicles driving down from flyovers to collide with slower vehicles merging from an access road. The design here is such that the view of drivers is obstructed and there is an absence of traffic calming measures over the years,” said Sewa Ram.Hassan, the traffic police chief agreed and added that conflicts between fast moving vehicles and pedestrians on some of these stretches were an important factor for the high rate of deaths.“These are high speed corridors where pedestrians from populated neighbourhoods of both sides frequently have to cross the dangerous roads in the absence of sufficient subways and footover-bridges,” said Hassan.SAFEST ROADS IN THREE DECADESApart from reporting the lowest fatalities, last year also turned out to be the safest for motorists and pedestrians on Delhi roads in the last three decades. The 5,610 accidents reported in the city in 2019 were 13.9% lesser than the previous year.But despite low death count, the accident severity (deaths per 100 accidents) was at 26.07% in 2019, marginally higher than 25.94% in the previous year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/three-roads-accounted-for-20-of-all-accident-deaths-last-year-report/story-zbKvoFKlkIkrj9EJ23nHsL.html
09-11-2020||City||Home guard jawan at picket duty killed by speeding car||New Delhi: A Home Guard officer was killed in an accident in east Delhi’s Vikas Marg in the early hours of Saturday, after a barricade — which was rammed by a speeding car — crashed into him at a police picket where he was on duty. The driver of the car was arrested later that day, and investigation is ongoing, police officers said.Jasmeet Singh, deputy commissioner of police (east), identified the victim as 41-year-old Naresh Kumar, who lived in West Vinod Nagar in east Delhi.“Clues at the accident spot helped us arrest the driver of the car, Ajay Goyal. We are still investigating the circumstances under which he fatally rammed the victim,” Singh said. Goyal is a resident of Ghaziabad and works as a cloth merchant in Chandni Chowk. The mishap took place around 2.30am on Saturday while Kumar was with some policemen at the picket on the Vikas Marg in Shakarpur neighborhood. He was standing at a corner and spotted an allegedly speeding car approach them when he signalled for it to stop, said another police officer. Instead of halting, however, the car rammed the barricades, one of which hit Kumar, even as the car sped away.Kumar was taken to a private hospital, where he was declared dead on arrival. DCP Singh said an investigation into the death continues even as an FIR of causing death due to negligence and rash driving has been registered at Shakarpur police station. Kumar is survived by his wife and their son.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/home-guard-jawan-at-picket-duty-killed-by-speeding-car/story-atvx4vSN1HGrFGc67M3r1K.html
09-11-2020||City||Students who cleared JEE, NEET to be roped in as mentors for kids in Delhi govt schools||New Delhi: Buoyed by the success of over 1,000 government school students in competitive examinations like National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE), the Delhi government’s education department has asked schools to ask these students to motivate their juniors as “role models”. This year, 569 government school students cracked NEET and 443 cleared JEE (Main), of which 53 further cracked the JEE (Advanced) for admission into the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs).“Some students of government schools may not be aware about the JEE, NEET and other competitive examinations. They may also not know the method of preparation, fee structure, institutions and availability of government facilities for the financial assistance,” additional director of education, Saroj Sain, said in a circular to schools on Thursday. “Therefore, it is... the prime duty of each outstanding alumni student of our schools to guide their juniors on how to crack these competitive examinations.”Heads of schools have been asked to facilitate alumni-student interaction through digital means until schools reopen. Schools in the national capital have been closed since March 19 due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, and classes and learning activities have mostly shifted online.“Once students start coming to schools, such alumni students must be given the opportunity to interact and guide junior students of their own school and other schools in the [respective] Zone,” Sain said.Shalu, 17, a resident of Gokalpur who graduated from Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalaya (RPVV) in Yamuna Vihar, ranked 5,347th in JEE (Advanced). “While appearing for the exam, a lot of us were made to feel inferior because a perception exists that only extraordinary minds or coaching centres can help clear these tests. I want to break that notion because I cleared these tests without coaching,” she said.The teenager, who has secured admission in IIT- Mandi in the electrical engineering programme, said, “The only key is to work consistently and I want to share that with others. Less than a year ago, we were in the same position as these students. It might motivate our juniors to excel in whatever subject they choose. There is an existing fear around such competitive exams. If we talk to our juniors, we might be able to tell them how to work around this fear if not erase it completely,” she said.Heads of schools have also welcomed the step. Prity Saxena, HOS at RPVV Paschim Vihar, said that after 22 of her students cleared JEE (Mains) and 22 others cleared NEET, students were motivated to do better. “We shared the results on our WhatsApp groups, which motivated the current students so much that they have now set their own targets. When the alumni come back to school and talks to the students about the institute they got selected in, it makes a difference. From things as minute as planning the day to getting the right books to the different problems that aspirants can face, students can get guidance which is relatable,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/students-who-cleared-jee-neet-to-be-roped-in-as-mentors-for-kids-in-delhi-govt-schools/story-YcDwjjjxoKL0SgeuRKIL1H.html
09-11-2020||Delhi||Former senior FB official to appear before peace panel||A former senior Facebook official is scheduled to depose as a witness before the Delhi Assembly’s peace and harmony committee, which is investigating complaints received against the social media company for allegedly failing to have taken down hateful content, especially during the Delhi riots in February, during which at least 53 people died.A digital strategist and author, Mark S Luckie, who worked as a manager with Facebook’s Global Influencers department between October 2017 and November 2018, will be deposing in the Assembly premises on Tuesday, as per a statement issued by the committee’s chairman Raghav Chadha on Sunday.Luckie told HT over email, “As a former employee who has worked inside of Facebook and alongside the company’s decision makers, I provide a unique perspective on the company’s internal policies that have so far been shielded from outsiders.”“While there is a general understanding of how Facebook’s inaction has led to the disenfranchisement of minority communities, little is known publicly about how hate and violent language are allowed to thrive systemically on the platform. In order for change to happen that prevents incidents like the Delhi riots from occurring again, government officials need to be equipped with the information and resources to keep Facebook accountable,” he said.The committee’s statement identified Luckie as an “extremely crucial and important witness”. “For the very first time, an international Facebook employee has come forward to depose before a committee in India… He (Luckie) has claimed that Facebook has been the centre of the systematic disenfranchisement of underrepresented voices and minorities are not being able to create a safe space for them on the platform... He has pointed out the visible partiality and selective application of policies and community standards by Facebook, where the distinction is created on the basis of race, religion, ethnicity etc,” the statement read.Luckie told HT that the attributions in the assembly committee’s statements are accurate.Facebook representatives did not respond to a request for comment.Earlier, journalists such as Paranjoy Guha Thakurta, Awesh Tiwari, Kunal Purohit, Prabir Purkaystha, founder of fact-check site Alt-News Pratik Sinha and digital rights activist Nikhil Pahwa, have deposed as expert witnesses before the committee.In September, the committee had sent summons to Facebook India vice-president and managing director Ajit Mohan, who moved the Supreme Court. The committee then told the top court that it had summoned Mohan as a “witness”.The peace and harmony committee was set up on March 2. “Through Mark S Luckie, the Committee shall be acquainted with the subtleties of the huge incorporation, especially from someone who has worked closely within the framework,” Chadha said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/former-senior-fb-official-to-appear-before-peace-panel/story-8oil3KSdwhWsEdRuGGCo7H.html
09-11-2020||City||7 arrested, 593kg crackers seized since govt ban||New Delhi: Delhi Police on Sunday said it has seized 593.2kg of illegal firecrackers and arrested seven people for selling them ever since the Delhi government banned selling and bursting of crackers to curb rising air pollution in the city. One person has also been arrested for bursting crackers, police said.Senior officers said that they were yet to ascertain the quantity of seized crackers as per their category -- green or conventional. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday announced complete ban on firecrackers, including the less pollution green variants, from November 7 to November 30.Anil Mittal, additional spokesperson, Delhi Police, said so far seven people have been arrested for stocking or selling illegal firecrackers, and one person was caught bursting crackers.Mittal said on October 28 a 9-year-old boy died after bursting a cracker with a steel tumbler on top of it in Alipur. A local shopkeeper was arrested in this case.The Delhi Police on Saturday said they had suspended all the licences given to shopkeepers in Delhi for selling green and PESO-certified firecrackers this Diwali.As per police data, a total of 167 licences for selling green crackers were issued till November 2. All of them stand suspended after the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) issued the “complete ban” notification on Friday (November 6) which kicked in from Saturday.Senior police officers said that all police personnel on duty across the city have already been directed to enforce the directives and carry out “massive crackdowns” on people involved in the illegal sale and use of crackers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/7-arrested-593kg-crackers-seized-since-govt-ban/story-2TpTem8P7k8cvZ1pCJUXKL.html
09-11-2020||Delhi||Shrouded in haze, Delhi gasps for breath||A veil of haze hanged over most parts of the city throughout Sunday as Delhi continued to receive a heavy load of pollutants from farm fires raging in the neighbouring Punjab and Haryana, turning the city’s air into a toxic cocktail of ultrafine microscopic particles and gaseous emissions. For the fourth consecutive day on Sunday, Delhi’s air quality index (AQI) was in the severe zone with a value of 416, indicating a health hazard to all those who were exposed to such poor air. Crop stubble fires in the northern states contributed to 29% of Delhi’s PM 2.5 load according to estimates by System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research, Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology.  The PM 2.5 concentrations touched 250 micrograms per cubic metres on Sunday, over four times the national ambient air quality standards and 25 times the World Health Organisation prescribed limit of 10 micrograms per cubic metres.There were over 4,900 fire points in Punjab on Saturday and over 3,500 on Sunday, according to data with the ministry of earth sciences (MoES). The combination of smoke from crop fires and calm winds led to air quality deteriorating significantly. Farmer leaders said crop fires are likely to continue till November 15, by when harvesting will be completed. One of the reasons for the prolonged stubble fire period in Punjab is the shortage of farm labour who had moved back to their states during the national lockdown for Covid 19 pandemic.“Fires will continue for a week or so. All the late varieties of paddy are being harvested now. Many parts of the state faced labour shortage this year. Most of the farm labour comes from Bihar and UP. They travelled back home during lockdown. There was a labour shortage during the beginning of harvesting season,” said Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary, Bharatiya Kisan Union. Agra, Bhiwadi, Baghpat, Bulandshahr, Faridabad, Ghaziabad, Gurugram and many other parts of northwest India also recorded “severe” air on Sunday.Scientists said air quality is unlikely to improve in the next two days. “In the morning conditions were smoggy but, in the day, relative humidity is under 75% so what we are seeing is only smoke and pollution. Winds are calm so no dispersal of pollutants is possible. Visibility this afternoon is only 600 metres when normally during this season it should be at least 2,000 metres in the afternoon hours. There is no likelihood of improvement till Diwali. At the most, wind speed can increase up to 8 to 10 kmph,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.A western disturbance is likely to impact the north western region around Diwali day on November 14, but that may not do much for dispersal of pollutants. “In fact, the wind direction will shift to easterly briefly on November 11 or 12 when wind speed will fall leading to accumulation of pollutants. The western disturbance is only likely to bring rain and snow to the upper reaches of hill states not to the north western plains,” Shrivastava added.“There is anti-cyclonic wind circulation in the lower levels and subsidence (settling downwards) of air in large parts of northwest India presently. Both are linked to slow winds and accumulation of pollutants. We have been seeing a very large number of crop stubble fire points. The combination of these factors is leading to air quality index (AQI) hovering between very poor and severe categories for the past four days,” explained RK Jenamani, senior scientist, national weather forecasting centre. “The centre of the anticyclonic wind circulation is just south of Delhi today leading to most of the impact being felt here,” he added.According to the Royal Meteorological Society, under an anticyclone air is descending forming an area of higher pressure at the surface. Because of these stable conditions, cloud formation is inhibited, so the weather is usually settled with only small amounts of cloud cover. This very stable atmosphere leads to accumulation of pollutants, experts said.“Winds are in a transitional phase. On Monday evening, they may shift to north-easterly direction but there is no likelihood of any improvement in air quality because wind speed is likely to be very low. Air quality may remain severe on Monday also and we also do not expect any significant improvement around Diwali. The fire counts are extremely high, adverse meteorology is leading to AQI spiking to severe category,” said Vijay Soni, scientist, IMD, air quality division. Ventilation index was only approx. 6000 m2/s on Sunday. The ventilation index is a function of the mixing height and the wind speed and defines the ability of the atmosphere to disperse contaminants. A ventilation index below 2,350 sq metres/second is considered poor. Mixing height is the height at which pollutants mix in the air.Commission yet to meetThough the six full-time members of the Commission for Air Quality Management for the National Capital Region (NCR) took charge on Friday, days after the Centre issued an ordinance on October 29 to set up the new centralised agency with sweeping powers to monitor and act against air pollution, the members haven’t met yet. Rules for the functioning of the commission are also yet to be framed.“The meeting of the commission members is not dependent on framing of rules. The rules for the functioning of the commission will be framed in due course. The commission will meet next week and start its work,” said Ravi Agrawal, special secretary, ministry of environment.MM Kutty, chairperson of the commission and former chief secretary of Delhi, did not answer calls on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shrouded-in-haze-delhi-gasps-for-breath/story-ylPDRZR6GLQUrpV197cxGI.html
09-11-2020||City||Eight residents rescued after fire in GK building||New Delhi: Fire service officers rescued eight people, including three senior citizens and a child, from a blaze in the basement of a three-story residential building in south Delhi’s Greater Kailash-1 late on Saturday night. All those in the building were rescued safely, and none were hurt in the fire, which residents said may have been triggered by a short-circuit, even as the police began a probe to ascertain the precise cause of the blaze.Residents said that the smoke spread so rapidly that only an attendant living in the basement was able to escape, while firefighters had to intervene to rescue the rest, who were trapped on balconies and the terrace.By the end, all of them were rescued using skylifts, while firefighters had to use special breathing apparatus to enter the building, said Atul Garg, director (Delhi Fire Services). The building, in S block of GK-1, has a basement, a stilt parking and three residential floors over a 1,200 square foot-plot. According to Ashok Kumar Jaiswal, assistant divisional officer of the fire department, a call reporting the blaze was made around 11.15pm on Saturday.“The basement serves as the office of an advocate who has stacked the place with a sofa set, a bed, computers and other items. An attendant who lives there had noticed the fire and had tried to douse it using an extinguisher, which wasn’t sufficient,” Jaiswal said. DFS officers said firefighters reached the spot in 15 minutes and found residents heading to the terrace and the balconies on the upper floors, due to the smoke that had engulfed the building by that point. “There was only one staircase in the building and since that was either burning or filled with smoke, the residents did not have any escape route,” Jaiswal said. It then took the fire fighters about 20 minutes to use the skylift to rescue the trapped people and another two hours to douse the fire. The lawyer, Sajal Dhamija, whose office had caught fire, said he suspected that the blaze was triggered by short-circuit. “I am still trying to understand what exactly happened. Right now, I can’t even enter the basement which is flooded,” said Dhamija, who wasn’t in the building when the blaze struck. Police officers said they had begun an investigation to identify the cause of the blaze.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/eight-residents-rescued-after-fire-in-gk-building/story-un18M6BDNAy4Kt5LWjkbQJ.html
09-11-2020||Delhi||BJP leaders demand compensation for firecracker traders||The Bharatiya Janata party (BJP) on Sunday demanded that the Delhi government should compensate firecracker traders for the loss incurred by them due to the ban imposed on the sale of all types crackers in view of the rising air pollution in the Capital.Former Union minister Vijay Goel along with BJP leaders and traders’ associations held a protest on Sunday at Jama Masjid demanding compensation for the traders.While addressing firecracker traders, Goel said that the decision to ban firecrackers is an attempt by the Delhi government to show that it has been making efforts to curb pollution. “These traders bought firecrackers stocks only after getting the licence. If the government had to impose the ban, then why did they issue the licence to traders to sell green firecrackers two months back.”Goel said that they are not opposing the ban but the timing of it. “Why the sale of firecrackers was not banned six months ago? The government has banned it now as it wants to show that it has taken some measures to curb pollution.”The BJP said that the government’s sudden decision to ban the sale of firecrackers has hit the traders really hard, as they have already been suffering losses due to the coronavirus disease pandemic.BJP MLA Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, leader of the opposition in the Delhi assembly, said, “The traders purchased huge amounts of the firecrackers by taking loans. Now, with the government’s sudden ban on the sale of green firecrackers, these traders have obviously suffered huge losses.”The BJP questioned the Delhi government about its promises it had made in the green budget. Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said, “The people of Delhi would not have been facing the double whammy of pollution and Covid had the government taken timely action. The main reason for the pollution problem today is the failure of the government to implement the 26 promises it made in its green budget about installing smog towers, getting 1,000 electric buses, planting two crore trees, etc,” Gupta said.The Aam Aadmi Party responded to BJP allegations, saying the saffron party has been playing politics over the crucial issue of air pollution. An AAP spokesperson said, “Whereas Delhi government is concerned about the health of its citizens, BJP is playing dirty politics on this issue. Most of BJP states have banned firecrackers after first allowing it. What does BJP have to say about that? BJP should stop playing politics over the health of Delhiites.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-leaders-demand-compensation-for-firecracker-traders/story-CHQNFT4uL67CS0BmA7xSyI.html
09-11-2020||Chandigarh||From Lahore to Chandigarh, PEC to mark its 100th year of establishment on November 9||From its establishment at Lahore (now in Pakistan) in 1921 to its present campus in Chandigarh, November 9 will mark 100 years of Punjab Engineering College (PEC). First set up in Lahore and named Mughalpura Engineering College, the institute was re-established as East Punjab Engineering College on the campus of Thomson Engineering College, Roorkee (now IIT Roorkee) after Partition. Renamed Punjab Engineering College in 1950 it was later shifted to Chandigarh in 1953.With the formation of the Union Territory of Chandigarh, the college came under the control of the Government of India through the Chandigarh administration in 1966.On a campus spreading over 146 acres in Chandigarh, now a deemed university, PEC offers eight undergraduate programmes and 14 postgraduate programmes, besides PhD programmes in various disciplines of engineering, science and others fields. The institution has over 3,000 students enrolled at present.The institution became a deemed university in 2003. It is said that the college was closer to getting an IIT tag in late 1950s when many IITs were established in the country. In 2009, PEC was rechristened as PEC University of Technology, but later in 2017 it got back the deemed university status.To celebrate its centenary, PEC will conduct many online programmes throughout the year including a special weekly seminar series. The institution is also planning to come up with a publication on the contribution of its alumna in the development of this region.Rich legacyWith the help of the Indian Air Force (IAF), the first set of graduate engineers in aeronautical engineering in the country came out of PEC in 1964 with 100% placements in IAF and Directorate General of Civil Aviation. The institute still shares a good bond with the IAF.During the 99 years of PEC’s history, the institution has given numerous personalities not only to the country but to the world and its alumni network is spread around the world. Among the notable alumni are Kalpana Chawla (astronaut), Padma Shri Dr Satish Kumar (DRDO), Varun Berry (MD Britannia Industries Ltd), Air Vice Marshal (retd) Rakesh Yadav, Vishal Kaul (vice-president Pepsico) and many others.Rajinder Kaura, CMD, Bergen Group-India, who is an alumni of PEC, said, “This college has given me a lot of insights about how to be an entrepreneur and all I have achieved in life is because of the teachers there. I will continue to contribute to this institution.”In 1994, PEC was also adjudged as the best technical college in India by the National Foundation of Engineers.“I have sweet memories of college and hostel days. I spent more than five years in PEC hostel and I learnt a lot of values during those years. The teachers were true mentors. PEC was most sought after college in the 1990s and best in the region. Now I am little concerned about its present ranking and I wish that I can contribute in making it number one in the nation,” said Rubinderjit Singh Brar, director higher education, Chandigarh, who is also a PEC alumnus.Future plansSince the late 1950s, the institute tried hard to get an IIT tag, but its hopes were dashed and instead, PEC is seeking a status of centrally-funded technical institute (CFTI) now, which has been its top priority. PEC director Dheeraj Sanghi said, “We have discussed the proposal in our board meetings and we are expecting a meeting with the UT administration soon.”“For our current student strength, we need around 200 faculty members but have only 100. If we get a CFTI tag, we will improve our quality. We will have more faculty and better infrastructure which is the need of the hour for the college,” he said.Besides this, PEC has also planned to introduce flexibility in the curriculum.In the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) 2020, PEC had gone up by 10 notches. “We have improved in perception and we have given better data this time. If we want a big jump in rankings then we need to make some significant changes and for that getting a CFTI status can help,” said Dheeraj Sanghi.Institute factsFirst set up in Lahore and named Mughalpura Engineering College in 1921Re-established as East Punjab Engineering College on the campus of Thomson Engineering College, Roorkee (now IIT Roorkee) after PartitionShifted to Chandigarh in 1953Said to have been considered for an IIT tag in the late 1950s Rechristened PEC University of Technology in 2009 but deemed university status restored later in 2017 Outer space to TV to rap, meet PEC’s notable alumniKalpana ChawlaChawla, who completed her bachelors’ degree in aeronautical engineering (1982) from PEC, became the first Indian-American astronaut and first Indian woman in Space. She first flew on the space shuttle Columbia in 1997 as a mission specialist and primary robotic arm operator.Jaspal Singh BhattiGraduating as an electrical engineer from PEC in 1978, Jaspal Singh Bhatti was an Indian television personality and a popular social satirist. He was posthumously honoured with the Padma Bhushan, India’s third highest civilian award, in 2013.Rakesh YadavAir Vice Marshal (retd) Rakesh Yadav was a 1970 batch student of aeronautical engineering. Commissioned in the Indian Air Force in July 1971, he was decorated twice by the President of India with the Ati Vishisht Seva Medal and Vishisht Seva Medal.Dinesh KhannaDinesh Khanna, from the civil engineering batch of 1965, is a former badminton player who became the first Indian to win an Asian badminton title after winning the Men’s Singles Asian Championship in 1965. He was also the National Badminton Champion in 1966 and received the Arjuna award in 1965.Satish KumarFrom the aerospace engineering batch of 1980, Dr Satish Kumar was awarded the Padma Shree in science and engineering in 2016. Now the chairman of the armaments research board of the Defence Research and Development Organisation, Kumar has received the defence ministry’s Technology Award and the Prime Minister’s special award for Development of Strategic Weapons and Performance by DRDO.Yogesh KumarDr Yogesh Kumar, aeronautical engineering batch, 1973, has been the former director of Light Combat Aircraft, Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL). Now working as a specialist designer and senior consultant with the National Aerospace Laboratories, Bengaluru, he has been the recipient of a number of awards, including the National Aeronautical Award, 2001, and the Rashtriya Gaurav Award, 2010.Aditya Parteek Singh Sisodia (Badshah)Better known by his stage name Badshah, Aditya Prateek Singh Sisodia is a civil engineer from the batch of 2006. This rapper and singer is known for his Hindi, Haryanvi, and Punjabi songs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/from-lahore-to-chandigarh-pec-to-mark-its-100th-year-of-establishment-on-november-9/story-YMh0lZPgTjFwrRxoFHm3dP.html
09-11-2020||Chandigarh||Three dead in Shimla road mishap||Three people were killed and one person sustained injuries after a pick up truck plunged into a deep gorge near Dublu village in Junga of Himachal Pradesh’s Shimla district late on Saturday, police said.The deceased are Rajesh,24, Pramod Singh,23, both residents of Dublu village and Govind,30, of Kuftu village while the injured has been identified as Ravi Kant,26, of Dublu village.They were returning home when the driver lost control of the vehicle and it fell into a gorge killing three persons on the spot. Superintendent of Police Mohit Chawla said the accident took place due to rash and negligent driving.The injured was rushed to Indira Gandhi Medical College, Shimla, where he is undergoing treatment. The bodies were handed over to family after postmortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-dead-in-shimla-road-mishap/story-YMPad8lBeX8vBGjeG1nu2I.html
09-11-2020||City||Himachal CM meets Union rly minister, seeks 100% Centre funding for Bhanupali-Bilaspur-Leh rail line||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Sunday met Union railways minister Piyush Goel in New Delhi and demanded 100% central government funding for the strategically important Bhanupali-Bilaspur-Leh railway line.The CM said the state has limited funds and therefore will need complete funding from the Centre since the railway line holds strategic importance. He also urged for expansion of rail network in the state by identifying new routes.He said so far, roads are the major mode of connectivity in Himachal, however, the state government is making efforts to strengthen air connectivity too. “Expansion of rail network is a long pending demand of the state and with the construction of Bhanupali- Bilaspur-Leh railway line, connectivity in the state will be further strengthened,” the CM said.Thakur also requested for support from the Centre for setting up of Bulk Drug Pharma Park in Una district. He said Himachal is already a leader in drug production and is a pharmaceutical hub.”The bulk drug park will help generate more employment opportunities in the state besides giving a boost to the industrial sector,” he added.The CM also called on Union defence minister Rajnath Singh to discuss various issues pertaining to the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-cm-meets-union-rly-minister-seeks-100-centre-funding-for-bhanupali-bilaspur-leh-rail-line/story-AGkPR9GCAei32BM6X0WhLJ.html
09-11-2020||Chandigarh||Dalai Lama greets Joe Biden, says admirer of the US as anchor of liberty, democracy||Tibetan spiritual leader the Dalai Lama on Sunday congratulated Joe Biden on his election as the next president of the United States of America.“As you may be aware, I have long been an admirer of the US as the anchor of liberty, democracy, religious freedom and the rule of law. Humanity places great hope in the democratic vision and leadership of the US as leader of the free world,” the Dalai Lama wrote to Biden.Particularly in these challenging times, he said, I hope you will be able to contribute to shaping a more peaceful world in which people suffering poverty and injustice find relief.The need to address these issues, as well as climate change, is indeed pressing, the 85-year-old spiritual leader wrote adding: “May I also commend you for your choice of a woman, Kamala Harris, to be your vice-president.”The spiritual leader said after devolution of his political authority over matters relating to the cause of Tibet to the elected Tibetan leadership in exile, he has been committed to promoting human values, religious harmony and the principles of non-violence and compassion, which he believes are very much needed in today’s world.“I would like to thank you for your support for the Tibetan people, during your time in Congress and the previous administration, as well as for your statement in September this year,” he wrote.He said it has been the Tibetan people’s good fortune to have received the friendship and encouragement of the American people and their respective presidents in the endeavour to protect and preserve ancient Buddhist culture — a culture of peace, non-violence and compassion — that has great potential to benefit humanity as a whole.On their behalf, I take this opportunity to express my gratitude once again, he wrote, wishing Biden every success in meeting the challenges that lie ahead.Meanwhile, Sikyong (president of Central Tibetan Administration) Lobsang Sangay also congratulated resident-elect Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris on their victory in the 2020 US presidential election.Sangay said he looked forward to a renewed policy and support on Tibet under the leadership of Joe Biden.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dalai-lama-greets-joe-biden-says-admirer-of-the-us-as-anchor-of-liberty-democracy/story-cC7Lnh8q1YtOyHGcNLsSFK.html
09-11-2020||Noida||472 potholes repaired in Greater Noida||GREATER NOIDA: The Greater Noida authority said that it has repaired more than 470 potholes during the ongoing drive aimed at making the city roads free of potholes. Under the drive, the authority has geo-tagged locations where repairs were needed, and also took pictures of each patch to maintain transparency in work, officials said. “We have repaired 472 potholes, out of 659 potholes identified in Greater Noida West and Greater Noida East. We will repair the remaining potholes in the next 15 days. Our teams are at work to make sure that all roads stay pothole-free and offer smooth ride to commuters,” said Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer, Greater Noida authority.The authority had identified 15,000 square metres are for repair, and has repaired 10,000 square metres so far. “If the potholes are not repaired properly, then the authority will take action against the officials concerned. And the geo-tagging will help when the pothole was repaired and how much area was repaired,” said a Greater Noida authority official, not authorized to speak to media.The authority had in September beginning started the drive in Greater Noida East and on October 7 in Greater Noida West, the officials said. In Greater Noida, the total length of the main roads, which are 45 to 132 metres wide, is 206 km, while the length of internal roads, which are less than 45 metres wide, is 594 km.The authority has also launched a helpline at which any resident can file a complaint and get the issue addressed. The officials said any resident can call at 120-2336046, 47, 48, 49 and file a complaint about potholes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/472-potholes-repaired-in-greater-noida/story-0EsrDtf2IumOS5Ck1vkleL.html
09-11-2020||City||Yeida earmarks 350 acres of land for ‘medical device’ park in Sector 28||GREATER NOIDA: The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) has earmarked 350 acres of land for ‘medical device’ park in Sector 28 and also sent a proposal to the state government. The authority is expecting ₹5,250 crore investment in this project if it is executed, said officials. Under the scheme ‘promotion of medical device park’ in follow-up to the ministry of chemical, fertilizer and pharmaceuticals’ July 27 order, the Uttar Pradesh government had on August 4 appointed Yeida as state implementing agency to execute this project. Subsequently, Yeida has roped in the Kalam Institute of Health Technology (KIHT), Visakhapatnam to prepare the detailed project report for this project. “The UP government has sent our proposal to the Union ministry of chemical, fertilizer and pharmaceuticals for necessary approvals. Once all formalities are completed, the ambitious project will witness further progress. This project will give boost to manufacturing of medical devices such as ventilator, PPE kits, X-ray machines and other products,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer, Yeida.The authority has earmarked 350 acres in sector 28 along the 165km Yamuna Expressway that connects Greater Noida with Agra. In phase I, Yeida will carve out 120 plots for setting up manufacturing units in this park. In Phase-II, the authority will carve out 90 plots, which will be allotted to interested investors. “Once approved, the government of India will provide Rs1,000 crore funding for the development of this project that will be a milestone in medical field,” said Singh.Apart from Uttar Pradesh, 13 other states are also planning to set up the medical device park in their respective areas. “The UP government is also planning to develop a bulk drug manufacturing project in Jhansi. We cannot set up a bulk drug manufacturing units along the Yamuna Expressway as it is a green corridor,” said Singh.The UP government has appointed Yeida as state implementing agency because the industrial body is handling large scale industrial projects and huge investments since Noida International Greenfield Airport project has picked up pace. “Due to airport project, setting up industrial units or other businesses have their own advantage along the Yamuna Expressway. As a result, we will easily get investment in medical device park too,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/yeida-earmarks-350-acres-of-land-for-medical-device-park-in-sector-28/story-QyiMImtxIy7XqZBYJ4iH9I.html
09-11-2020||City||Illegal construction in Zirakpur: RWAs march in protest against MC officers||Members of around 30 resident welfare associations (RWAs) of Zirakpur on Sunday held a protest march against the officers of the municipal council and builders for carrying out illegal constructions in the city.The protest march began from Bollywood Heights at Peer Muchalla and culminated at the Baltana chowk. The RWAs alleged that illegal colonies were mushrooming at the behest of MC officers.Head of the joint action committee Sukhdev Chaudhary said MC officers were hand in gloves with the builders who were scrapping the master plan and not providing facilities as per the MoU.Chaudhary said despite collecting ₹170 crore as development charges from builders, the Zirakpur MC had failed to upgrade the city’s infrastructure. “Choked drains, missing streetlights and damaged roads remain a problem and the MC has yet to come out with a workable plan to utilise the money it has collected from builders as external (EDC) and internal development charges (IDC),” he alleged.Illegal colonies are flourishing in Peer Muchalla, Dhakoli and adjoining areas with the connivance of Zirakpur MC officials. Chaudhary said if the MC will not solve their problems, they will hold a protest outside the office of Mohali deputy commissioner.The joint action committee demanded that the additional deputy commissioner should visit the MC office twice a month and listen to the grievances of the people; file tracking system should be started in the city council so that people can find out about their file sitting at home; help desk should be built in the city council office; persons concerned should get information about any work of the council through SMS and email; and there should be an animal catcher vehicle available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/illegal-construction-in-zirakpur-rwas-march-in-protest-against-mc-officers/story-UI0CXR3e8BpkpNr9PjrbEK.html
09-11-2020||Noida||Stop outdoor activities, exercises, say experts as air quality worsens||Noida: Suspend your daily outdoor activities, especially during the mornings, suggest experts, as the high pollution levels in Noida and adjoining areas make even healthy persons vulnerable to heart and lung ailments.As the air quality levels of Noida, Ghaziabad and Greater Noida oscillated between the bookends of the “severe” category for the past three days, and in the higher end of the “very poor” category before that, experts say the air is unfit for any kind of outdoor activity, especially those that lead to physical exertion such as jogging, brisk walking or cycling.“All outdoor activities which increase breathing rate, be it jogging, running, walking or cycling, must be immediately stopped. On an average a person takes 16 to 17 breaths per minute but while exercising, this increases to 50 to 60 breaths per minute. This, in the current air quality, increases the intake of toxins by at least two to three times, which can weaken organs. In the current scenario, inhaling two to three times more toxins is equal to smoking 20 cigarettes a day,” said Dr Arvind Kumar, founder Lung Care Foundation and head of the chest surgery at Sir Gangaram Hospital, Delhi. He added that symptoms like heavy breathing, choking sensations, dry cough, itchy nose, itchy eyes are the early symptoms showing that pollution is taking a toll on health and weakening the lungs and heart.“If exposed to polluted air for a few days, these symptoms are temporary. On prolonged exposure, though, such symptoms become long term and in many cases, permanent. We who live in the National Capital Region are anyways exposed to at least four months of bad air quality,” he said, adding that precautions such as staying indoors and wearing N95 masks should be taken.According to data obtained from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), pollutants particulate matter (PM)2.5 and PM10 in Noida and Greater Noida have been six to ten times higher than the permissible limits, hovering around 400 and 620 microgrammes per cubic metres (µg/m3), since Thursday. The permissible limit for PM2.5 is µg/m3 and for PM10 it is 60µg/m3.However, experts suggest that pollutants in the region, especially the annual average PM2.5 – the aerosols that mix with the bloodstream through lungs – are 143 µg/m3 over three times the national standard.“The pollutants are at severe levels at present, which means that they can affect even healthy people. Even “moderate” air quality affects people with asthma and lung-related issues and by the time air quality becomes “very poor”, the risks of respiratory illnesses increases. That’s why it is important to avoid prolonged exposure to polluted air,” said Shambahvi Shukla, program officer, air pollution at Centre for Science and Environment (CSE).Meanwhile, a cyclists’ and jogger’s group in the city said that they feel the pollution taking a toll on their efficiency and health, prompting them to suspend their morning runs and long cycling trails. “There has been a lot of difference in the air in the past few weeks. We can actually feel our eyes burning, while breathing is heavy even for the slightest of exertions, and everyone in the group feels that their efficiency to paddle has dropped. We are constantly the AQI monitor and since the pollution levels are at their peak in the mornings, we have not gone for cycling for five to six days,” said Rajiva Singh, a city resident who heads Dare2Gear, a cyclist group, and JWC, a joggers’ group.He added that there is a cycling event coming in late November which requires a large group to cycle for 100 kilometres, however, given the present conditions, the group is thinking of reducing the distance to 50 or 40 kms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/stop-outdoor-activities-exercises-say-experts-as-air-quality-worsens/story-e97RutrX4rpxErIMwAVoCP.html
09-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Smart City Limited’s 24X7 water supply project in Manimajra delayed again||In the absence of bidders, the ambitious 24X7 water supply project in Manimajra has been delayed yet again.The Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) will refloat tenders after making modifications in the technical requirements of the contract. The project was approved in March this year with a budget of ₹162 crore. The work was expected to begin in September and finish by the end of March 2022. “With CSCL failing to even allot the work, the completion of the project is expected to stretch to at least the end of 2022,” said a CSCL official wishing not to be named.In July this year, after failing to get any response from the bidders, CSCL had made amendments and allowed joint venture companies to participate in the bidding process. But the tendering process that was restarted in August also didn’t find any takers.“We will be floating the tenders again and are hopeful that the response will be positive,” said the official.What project entailsThe scope of the project entails retrofitting of existing network, laying of new network, including civil, electro-mechanical, instrumentation, smart water metering, SCADA and operation and maintenance for 15 years.A total of 13,700 water connections have been planned to be covered in Manimajra. One of the main focus areas will be to reduce water leakage from existing 50% to 15%.The success of the Manimajra 24/7 water supply project will majorly impact CSCL’s planned pan-city 24/7 water project, for which CSCL and the municipal corporation are in advanced talks with a French development bank, Agence Française de Développement, for availing a loan of ₹550 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-smart-ccity-limited-s-24x7-water-supply-project-in-manimajra-delayed-again/story-iDC4NRcyZ9c4YlN4T59gSM.html
09-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Man booked for giving triple talaq over Whatsapp||A 28-year-old man has been booked by Naya Nagar police for allegedly giving triple talaq to his wife over Whatsapp. The accused allegedly forced his 24-year-old wife to escort him to various lodges for sex.According to the woman, the accused forced her to go to lodges against her will and when she refused, he gave her talaq over WhatsApp. The woman then lodged a complaint with the police. The couple got married in August 2014 against their family’s wishes and have a 5-year-old daughter. However, they have been living separately for the past couple of years. They would meet during social events, said the police officer.Earlier, the woman had objected to going to lodges, following which the man had apologised, said the police.“We have registered a case under section 498A (harassing a married woman) of the Indian Penal Code and section 4 of the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act, and are investigating the case,” said a police officer. The accused is yet to be arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-booked-for-giving-triple-talaq-over-whatsapp/story-aBGDLErTZYSbN7XFyQea6K.html
09-11-2020||Mumbai||Gastroenteritis cases rise by 155% in Mumbai: BMC||With the gradual unlocking of the nationwide lockdown, the cases of gastroenteritis known as ‘stomach flu’ has increased by 155% in the city in recent times, as compared to June this year.With no street vendors available during the lockdown, people were forced to eat homemade food and this had drastically decreased the monthly cases of gastroenteritis. But with the opening up as a part of the unlocking process, there has been an increase in commercial and social activity. Hence, the cases of stomach flu have gradually increased, said, doctors.Gastroenteritis is a form of stomach flu which typically spreads by contact with an infected person or through contaminated food or water. It leads to diarrhoea, cramps, nausea, vomiting and fever.According to per the data shared by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), in June, 40 cases of gastroenteritis were reported, which increased to 102 in October. Doctors are expecting more cases as roadside eateries and restaurants are opening up.“Firstly, as a precautionary measure, people should avoid eating food from outside. Many companies have even prohibited the consumption of outside food in offices. Secondly, to avoid developing gastroenteritis, people should carry home-cooked foods,” said Dr Gautam Bhansali, consultant general physician, Bombay Hospital.Meanwhile, the BMC data reveals that in October a total of 63 cases of leptospirosis were reported, which was only 30 during the same month in 2019. This is despite less rainfall reported last month. The highest number of cases were reported from five wards—FN (Matunga), GS (Elphinstone), GN (Dadar), PS (Goregaon) and PN ward (Malad).Leptospirosis is an infection in rodents, other wild and domesticated species. Rodents are implicated most often in human cases. It can pass from animals to humans when an unhealed break in the skin comes in contact with water or soil where animal urine is present.On September 2, a 16-year-old boy succumbed to the infection who was a resident of F-North ward. He became the first victim of leptospirosis in the city of this year. As per the information shared by the BMC, the boy developed a fever with chills on August 31 after he hovered in the rain a few days back.The BMC has advised people with a history of wading through floodwater to consult a doctor for prophylactic treatment of leptospirosis within 72 hours. “All the private practitioners are hereby requested to start doxycycline to all fever patients during monsoon season as early treatment with doxycycline prevents organ involvement and other complications thereby preventing deaths due to leptospirosis,” said Dr Malagala Gomare, executive health officer, BMC.However, there is a silver lining. As per the data provided by the BMC, the cases of malaria have fallen drastically in the city. In the month of September, 661 cases of malaria were reported which has plunged further to 466 cases in October. Last year in October, the city had recorded 536 malaria cases.“People need to follow all the precautions as symptoms of malaria mimic the symptoms of Covid-19. See to it that there is no waterlogging around your house. Wear full-sleeved clothes if you are venturing out of the house to prevent mosquito bites. Use mosquito repellents and mosquito nets in the house to keep mosquitoes at bay,” said Dr Vikrant Shah, an epidemiologist.People can contact the helpline number of the BMC at 022-2411-4000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/gastroenteritis-cases-on-the-rise-by-155-in-mumbai-bmc/story-M2r4xX7LU1HHUbypOVT9rO.html
09-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Police arrests man who posed as Army officer to cheat, sexually assault Powai woman||Powai police on Friday arrested a 40-year-old man on charges of rape, cheating and impersonation. The case was registered on Tuesday after police received a written complaint from a 29-year-old woman claiming the accused posed as an officer of the Indian Army and sexually assaulted her after making fake promises to marry her. According to the survivor’s statement, she met the accused Karan Shetty on a social media site, and they became friends. The accused allegedly told her that he was an Army officer. He promised to marry her and sexually assaulted her on multiple occasions. The accused also took over ₹13 lakh from the complainant for various reasons. Recently, the survivor discovered that Shetty is not in the Army, after which she approached the police and lodged a complaint against him. “Following her complaint, we registered a case under sections 376 (punishment for rape), 413 (habitually dealing in stolen property), 420 (cheating), 171 (wearing garb or carrying token used by public servant with fraudulent intent), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against Shetty and arrested him,” said an officer from Powai police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-arrests-man-who-posed-as-army-officer-to-cheat-sexual-assault-powai-woman/story-KdDDZodS142cF4qz4VmifK.html
09-11-2020||Pune||Centre gives Balewadi complex in Pune Rs 16 crore for Khelo India SCE||The Shiv Chhatrapati Sports Complex at Mhalunge-Balewadi, has received Rs 16 crore from the government of India, to create a Khelo India State Centre of Excellence (KISCE). State sports commissioner Om Prakash Bakoria tweeted on Saturday: “Government of India has sanctioned 16 Cr to Shree Shivchhatrapati Sports Complex, Mhalunge-Balewadi Stadium for making Khelo India State Centre of Excellence. Many thanks to @KirenRijiju @YASMinistry. Next wave of players will come from this institute. “ The centres will have infrastructure upgradation, setting up of sports science centres and components in the form of quality coaches and sports science human resources like physiotherapists, and strength and conditioning experts. Along with Pune, the Ministry of Sports, has approved five centres. All the centres will now be upgraded at a consolidated budget estimate of Rs 67.32 crore for FY 2020-21, and a subsequent four years in an effort to identify and groom Olympic- level talent. “We will be focusing on sports like shooting, cycling and athletics,” said Bakoria. Kiren Rijiju, Union Minister of Youth Affairs and Sports, said, “Creating centres of sporting excellence across the country is a step towards our vision of making India one of the top 10 countries in Olympics 2028. Unless we can provide world-class specialised training, we cannot expect athletes to excel at the Olympics. Each of these centres will provide world-class training in a specific sporting discipline and will become the main facility in the country where elite athletes of that sport will train. I am happy that each state has supported this initiative of the centre with great positivity and enthusiasm.” Pratap Jadhav, treasurer of Cycling Federation of India said that the infrastructure upgradation will help a lot to Maharashtra cyclist. “We will be setting up new academy at the balewadi stadium in which Cycling Association of Maharashtra, Cycling Federation of India and Union Cycliste Internationale (UCI) will be working together,” he said. Each KISCE will be extended with sports-specific support for 14 Olympic sports, of which one state or UT will be given support for a maximum of three sports. Where the sports centres are: Assam: States Sports Academy, Sarusajai – Rs 7.96 crore Meghalaya: J N S Complex, Shillong, Meghalaya – Rs 8.39 crore Daman & Diu: New Sports Complex Silvassa - Rs 8.05 crore Madhya Pradesh: MP State Academy – Rs 19 crore Maharashtra: Shree Shivchhatrapati Sports Complex, Balewadi, Pune – Rs 16 crore Sikkim: Paljor Stadium, Gangtok – Rs 7.91 crore||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/centre-gives-balewadi-complex-rs-16-crore-for-khelo-india-sce/story-IgeDSgSakXcZXPctLmoElJ.html
09-11-2020||Pune||Pune Metro: Agriculture college-Shivajinagar tunnelling complete||The Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation (Maha-Metro) has achieved another breakthrough as the second Tunnel Boring Machine (TBM) completed 1.6 km underground tunnel digging between agriculture college and Shivajinagar on Saturday. The TBM, named Mula, entered from agricultural college ground on November last year and completed the tunnel work of 1,600 metres within 12 months. The Maha Metro is building two metro lines - Swargate-Nigdi and Vanaz-Ramwadi - of which almost 50 per cent work is complete. This was one of the two TBMs being used for tunnelling the up and down line in the underground section. Earlier in September, the first TBM had successfully dug up a tunnel between the same stretch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-metro-agriculture-college-shivajinagar-tunnelling-complete/story-8aQk8telrvwITa2ZqC2VLP.html
09-11-2020||Pune||20,000 students miss SPPU re-exams||PUNE The Savitribai Phule Pune University’s (SPPU) final-year re-examinations, for students who missed the online round of exams last month, ended on Saturday.Of a total of 40,000 students registered for the re-exams, only half appeared. At least 20,000 students remained absent. The SPPU administration is trying to declare results of the exams before Diwali, on November 15.The re-examination was held from November 5 to 7. “For the re-exams 40,000 students had applied through the Google form process, but in only half appeared for the exams. Some of the students who had earlier appeared through offline mode again gave the exams through online mode to get the benefit of a possible better result,” said Mahesh Kakade, director of the board of examination and evaluation.“Till now we have declared the results of 25 subjects, and by November 15 we will try to declare the results of at least 100 more subjects,” added Kakade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/20-000-students-miss-sppu-re-exams/story-MYE641uYSO4yKz6HMU6k9I.html
09-11-2020||Pune||Serum produces 30 million Covishield vaccine vials; awaits emergency licensing for vaccination||The Serum Institute of India (SII) which is a front-runner for providing coronavirus (Covid-19) vaccine to India has produced as many as 30 million Covishield vaccine vials, said, SB Patil, joint commissioner (drugs), Pune division, Food and Drugs Administration (FDA).Abhimanyu Kale, commissioner, Food and Drugs Administration (FDA), Pune division, along with Kale and other officials visited the institute on Friday to inspect the safety measures and production quality.SII is awaiting the emergency license from the central government on the lines of World Health Organisation’s (WHO) guidelines. This will expedite the process of vaccinating people who are at the direct risk of being exposed to the Sars-Cov-2-virus which causes the Covid-19 infection, based on the promising response that Covishield has got following the third phase trials in the UK.A statement issued by FDA said, “Adar Poonawalla said that India is likely to have a ‘safe and effective’ coronavirus vaccine by January 2021. The authorities of SII requested that on the lines of WHO guidelines the government should grant an emergency license to the institute.”Kale said, “The visit was intended to find out how prepared the institute is in case we have a government-approved vaccine. We also want to make sure that there is no miscommunication or lack of coordination between the government and the institute with regards to permissions and licensing.”“We told them that we are ready to provide them the regular licenses, but for emergency licenses, we will need to get more information,” he said.Patil said, “Over 30 million doses of Covishield are ready and the quality levels are satisfactory. The company has asked to grant permission for an emergency license for which there is currently no provision in our law. However, the institute has asked us for permission under the WHO guidelines, which provides for such licenses under exceptional situations like earlier in case of Ebola.”“The institute will send us an official letter and then we will send it to Drugs Controller General of India who will take the final call. The institute has got such licenses from other countries based on which they have made a similar request for Indian population like healthcare workers,” he said.Currently, the phase three trials are undergoing in India too in several cities and the results of which are expected to come by the end of the year which will prove its efficacy against Covid-19. The institute, meanwhile, has begun the production of the vaccine parallelly to meet up the demands once the vaccine gets final approval from the WHO and Indian government for mass vaccination.A request for comment on the same from the SII went unanswered at the time of going to press.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/serum-produces-30-million-covishield-vaccine-vials-awaits-emergency-licensing-for-vaccination/story-sM2BrYVQP4sVcDeq6d9DpM.html
09-11-2020||Pune||42 chemists in Pune division issued showcause notices for mask price violations||The Pune division’s Food and Drugs administration (FDA) has issued showcause notice to 42 chemists in Pune, Solapur, Satara, Sangli and Kolhapur. Of the 597 inspections carried out by the FDA in these districts, 42 violations were observed. The FDA has now issued notices to the chemists and is awaiting a reply before initiating any further action. The state government had issued a price cap on masks on October 20, which priced doctor’s kits, including N-95 masks and three-ply melt blown masks at Rs 127; and a two-ply surgical with loop or tie at Rs 3. The price schedule was done under the Epidemic Act and essential commodities act. In Pune, 28 chemists were issued notices, in Satara seven chemists, in Solapur three, in Sangli one and in Kolhapur three chemists were issued showcause notices for selling masks above the price capped by the state government.SB Patil, joint commissioner, FDA said, “Of the 597 chemists who were inspected, 42 were found to be violating the price regulations norms for which we have issued showcause notices and we are awaiting their reply now to take further action.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/42-chemists-in-pune-div-issued-showcause-notices-for-mask-price-violations/story-aPMekMXg1enRMjNQe13n9H.html
09-11-2020||Delhi||13% increase in Covid-19 infections in Delhi due to air pollution; masks, air purifiers may not be enough: IMA||Delhi has reported more than 6,000 Covid-19 cases daily in the past few days and 13 per cent of this increase has been estimated to be due to air pollution, the Indian Medical Association said on Saturday.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19Stating that N-95 masks and air purifiers may not provide full time protection,  the doctors’ body stressed on the implementation of long-term measures to bring down pollution levels.Air pollution damages the inner lining of the lungs and hence increases the severity of Covid-19 infection.“Increased air pollution leads to increased inflammatory response. In the last few days, Delhi has reported more than 6000 Covid-19 cases per day. 13 per cent of the increase has been estimated to be due to pollution,” the IMA said.In the last 10 days, the national capital and its neighbouring areas have seen a sharp spike in air pollution levels.  The Air Quality Index (AQI) in Delhi on Saturday remained above 350 while safe limit is 0-50. The WHO’s ambient air pollution data shows that the levels of PM 10 and PM 2.5 in Delhi are way above the normal levels, the IMA stated.Also watch: Heavy smog In Delhi as air quality remains in ‘severe’ category Poor air quality may result in the aggravation of asthma, COPD, high BP and even cardiovascular diseases. Merely walking could result in health complications due to the high concentration of particulate matter (PM) 2.5 in Delhi’s air.  “N-95 masks and air purifiers may not provide full time protection. An AQI of above 300 makes it difficult not only for people with respiratory problems, but healthy people as well. Hence, it is advisable that people do not go out early in the morning when pollution levels are the highest. Elderly and children are more likely to develop infections and allergies due to smog,” the doctors’ body said.   The major sources of air pollution in Delhi are vehicular pollution, construction activities, carriage of construction material, dust on roads, burning of agricultural or crop residue, industrial and powerhouse emissions, burning of municipal wastes, thermal energy power plants and mining in Aravalli hill areas, it said.Also Read |In India, polluted air spells trouble for virus patientsIt listed measures such as use of public transport, buying energy efficient vehicles, planting a garden wherever possible, making use of solar energy, using recyclable products which can be adopted by the people to help reduce pollution. There is also a graded response action plan in Delhi and NCR which includes measures such as prohibition on entry of trucks into Delhi, ban on construction activities, introduction of odd and even scheme, closure of brick kilns, ban on diesel generator sets, garbage burning in land fill etc. Banning of crackers and stubble burning in hinterland are helpful public health measures. “Implementation of long term measures is important,” the IMA added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/13-increase-in-covid-19-infections-in-delhi-due-to-air-pollution-masks-air-purifiers-may-not-be-enough-ima/story-oMeuJdd9UDYrAgiUQrSJjN.html
09-11-2020||Mumbai||No school due to Covid-19 pandemic may mean no study for rural students across Maharashtra, warn experts||A month after the nationwide lockdown began in March, Radhika Hate, 75, a resident of a slum colony in Borivli, took both her grandsons to their hometown in Mangaon, Konkan. “My daughter, who is the only earning member of the household, lost her job and we could not pay the rent in Mumbai. We moved to our ancestral home and are currently looking for work here,” said Hate. While Hate has no hopes of returning to the city, her grandsons, Shravan, 6, and Dinesh, 8, have not been able to attend their school over the past several months. “We have no internet here. The teachers call, but we cannot monitor what the children study. We don’t even have all their books,” said Hate. Even as demands of ‘no vaccine, no school’ gather steam, for students in rural Maharashtra and those studying in civic schools across the state, the delay in reopening schools can have disastrous consequences, say experts. “Although schools have made the shift from offline to online learning, there are several concerns that need to be addressed while looking at this model in the long term. Children from underprivileged families lack a conducive learning environment at home, as they have small houses, parents struggling to make ends meet, lack of resources like the internet, etc. These challenges are difficult to address for schools, but have far-reaching consequences on students’ learning,” said Ghanashyam Sonar, convener of the All India Right to Education forum. On October 7, the Maharashtra cabinet decided to physically reopen schools only after Diwali. The state education department will draw up guidelines with respect to reopening in the next few days.Varsha Gaikwad, state education minister on Friday announced that schools in the state would reopen for Classes 9 to 12 from November 23.. The principal of a civic school in Mumbai said that even six months after the lockdown, the struggle to get students for online classes and to ensure they learn is still the same. “I remember a case wherein a student was attending an online class and some fight broke out between his parents. The father started beating his mother even as the class was on and the child was so embarrassed that he stopped attending classes for the next few days. We had to counsel him and his parents to finally bring him back. For students like these, the delay in school reopening seems worse than the virus itself,” said the principal. As per the recently released Annual Status of Education Report (ASER), only 19% students in rural Maharashtra said they were able to attend live online classes. The survey was conducted in 33 districts, with data from 6,800 households from the state, in September 2020. Madhav Chavan, co-founder of Pratham Education Foundation, said the NGO would conduct another survey to understand the learning levels of students across various grades in the backdrop of closure of schools. “It is significant to understand if there is a change in the basic skills of students during this period, to see whether they can read, write and do maths as per their academic level. After schools reopen, this assessment will be important for schools and students,” he added. Balu Bhoyar, principal, Karamveer Vidyalaya in Chandrapur, said in rural areas, learning challenges increase for students in the absence of physical schools. “Students are often engaged in household work and agriculture-related work by parents as they misinterpret physical closure of schools as a holiday. This is a big challenge for us and we have been sending teachers into localities to teach students in their homes and to continue their learning. If that does not happen, students will lag behind as there is no internet connectivity and online learning is not feasible,” said Bhoyar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-school-due-to-covid-19-pandemic-may-mean-no-study-for-rural-students-across-maharashtra-warn-experts/story-wY2ecJjPaiCnAQbsg52dLL.html
09-11-2020||Chandigarh||Guest Column: Life as a senior citizen can be challenging, but do count the advantages||When it comes to all the stages of life, the most woeful time is when a person turns 60. This age is not as “blessed” as it used to be. Earlier, going back half a century or more, sexagenarians did not usually worry so much about living out the rest of their lives as their sons, daughters and their children were usually a part of a well-knit harmonious joint family.With modernisation and globalisation, however, times have changed. Firstly, families are scattered all around the country and abroad. Secondly, the well-knit fibre of the joint family is crumbling and the nuclear family system is getting to be more common.With lesser means to live on, people start suffering from depression or other forms of illnesses, worrying constantly about the time when they would be totally incapacitated due to their age and not able to live independently. Many of them find themselves isolated in empty nests and toy with the idea of moving into an old age home. Some spend their time meditating upon God, while others take up work – for which they often are overqualified.When the mind matures, the body decays.However, many senior citizens, keen on improving their lives, have established associations where they spend time reading books and newspapers. Monthly or weekly meetings are held for groups in which people narrate their experiences, and get much joy in singing old songs and reciting poetry.India has no doubt progressed in many fields, but the 12% population of the elderly in the country that has helped contribute to the nation’s progress is not getting the support it requires for a more meaningful, sustainable existence.Many seniors lose all expectations of love from their children. There are some who have no financial security. At such a stage, all they need is positivity.While there is no doubt that the elderly are respected in some homes by the younger generations, their numbers are very few.There are a plethora of problems that senior citizens face which need to be resolved. Sons and daughters-in-law who ill-treat them should be penalised.Older people living on their own are also in the danger of being looted and killed by criminals. Laws need to be enacted for their protection.Medical facilities too are limited; with many chronically ill patients, especially those who are financially constrained, unable to access quality healthcare. Government hospitals and old age homes must be upgraded to allow seniors to spend days without discomfort. Private hospitals supported by the government too should have strict rules about ensuring their care and treatment.Government officials should also check whether seniors are getting old age pension regularly.The dependence of the elderly on ‘fixed deposits’ in banks has been hit hard with the Reserve Bank of India cutting rates from 8% to 5% in the last year.The Indian government must take the responsibility for its senior citizens, their good health and mental wellbeing, intervening in their support in case of family disputes over property.Finally, however, one should remember that there are certain advantages to ageing too. Every person born on this earth will eventually age – and that will be a time when he or she will have enough hours to spare in a day to review and introspect over life and prepare for fresh adventures coming his or her way.Old age has many advantages of its own. Life is to be taken as a composite whole in which youth and old age are equally important and contribute to one’s development.No stage of life can be ignored. Youth is the period of doing and old age is the period of sharing experiences gained by working hard to prove one’s worth.Old age is the time for contemplation and spiritual serenity.TS Chawla is a Ludhiana based senior journalist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/guest-column-life-as-a-senior-citizen-can-be-challenging-but-do-count-the-advantages/story-NnhWJkwdi8O5gcBmzZzoCJ.html
09-11-2020||World||Keep your masks on, Biden says after Pfizer announces vaccine success||US President-elect Joe Biden, who has announced a team to shape his Covid-19 plan, on Monday called Pfizer’s announcement of vaccine test success as “excellent news” but said masks remained a “more potent weapon against the virus”.Biden, who had made fighting the pandemic his top priority, named a 13-member advisory board on Sunday to “shape my approach to managing” the surge in cases and the search for vaccine. It is co-chaired by former Surgeon General Vivek Murthy, former head of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) David Kessler and Yale School of Medicine’s Marcella Nunez-Smith.Biden’s transition team was informed of Pfizer’s vaccine, which the company said has proven to be 90% effective, just hours later. “Last night, my public health advisors were informed of this excellent news,” he said on Monday. “I congratulate the brilliant women and men who helped produce this breakthrough and to give us such cause for hope.”But he cautioned that the end of the battle against Covid-19 was “still months away”. It will be “many more months” before a vaccine is widely available. This is why, he said, citing Centers for Disease Prevention Director Robert Redfield, “for the foreseeable future, a mask remains a more potent weapon against the virus than the vaccine”.“Today’s news does not change this urgent reality. Americans will have to rely on masking, distancing, contact tracing, hand washing, and other measures to keep themselves safe well into next year. Today’s news is great news, but it doesn’t change that fact.”Biden had withstood ridicule for his use of masks and strict adherence to social distancing norms during the campaign. President Trump, who has not conceded the election and is challenging the outcome, welcomed the announcement in a tweet in all-caps: “STOCK MARKET UP BIG, VACCINE COMING SOON. REPORT 90% EFFECTIVE. SUCH GREAT NEWS!”Vice-President Mike Pence, who leads the White House task force on Covid, was equally effusive. “Thanks to the public-private partnership forged by President @realDonaldTrump, @Pfizer announced its Coronavirus Vaccine trial is EFFECTIVE, preventing infection in 90% of its volunteers,” he tweeted.American drugmaker Pfizer, which developed the vaccine with German company BioNTech, announced that their two-dose vaccine had proven to be 90% effective against coronavirus. “I think we can see light at the end of the tunnel,” Pfizer Chairman and CEO Dr Albert Bourla told CNBC’. “I believe this is likely the most significant medical advance in the last 100 years, if you count the impact this will have in public health, global economy.”They plan to apply for approval by the Food and Drug Administration late November.Even if approved, it will be months before the drug will be available for widespread use, as the president-elect noted in the statement.More than 237,000 Americans have died so far and 10 million have been infected. Cases have been surging again, with 105,000 reported in the last 24 hours, according to the Johns Hopkins University tracker.“The COVID-19 Advisory Board will help guide the Biden-Harris Transition in planning for the President-elect’s robust federal response,” the transition team said in the statement about the advisory team. Members of the 13-member team will works with state and local officials to determine the public health and economic steps that needed to bring the virus under control, the statement added to being “immediate relief to working families, to address ongoing racial and ethnic disparities, and to reopen our schools and businesses safely and effectively”.Members include another Indian-descent health expert, apart from co-chair Murthy.Atul Gawande, professor of surgery at Brigham and Women’s Hospital, and at Harvard Medical School, had previously advised the department of health and human services in the Clinton Administration. Also on the team was Ric Bright, director of the government’s key vaccine agency the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA), who was pushed out by the Trump administration after he went public alleging red-flags raised by him about Covid-19 had been ignored.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/keep-your-masks-on-biden-says-after-pfizer-announces-vaccine-success/story-XpbV2s0VmFJ6nDPAuVsMkJ.html
09-11-2020||World||Kulbhushan Jadhav: Pak court gives more time, next hearing in Dec||The Islamabad High Court (IHC) on Monday gave more time to the lawyer from the Indian High Commission to get instructions from Kulbhushan Jadhav, the former Indian Navy officer on death row in Pakistan over espionage charges. The new date for hearing has been set for December 1 as the court observed that proceedings can only take place if the Indian side cooperates. India had maintained that Pakistan should address the core issues pertaining to the case.“We have said on a number of occasions that Pakistan has failed to respond on core issues pertaining to this case, and the core issues are provision of all documents related to the case and providing unimpeded, unconditional and unhindered consular access to Kulbhushan Jadhav,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava had said last month.“These core issues need to be addressed if we have to have an effective review and reconsideration as ordered by the International Court of Justice (ICJ). I think Pakistan must show its intention to deliver on these core issues,” he said.Attorney General of Pakistan Khalid Jawed Khan told the court on Monday that the government was “taking all measures” to ensure implementation of the decision of ICJ but that India deliberately “did not want to be part of the court proceedings.”The government had offered counsellor access to India through its high commission to Jadhav for the third time, he added.The attorney general said the Indian High Commission had approached the court in another case pertaining to its prisoners, but it was not cooperating with the court in the Jadhav case. The other petition of the High Commission was fixed for hearing on the same day, he informed the court, and said India could become a party in the Jadhav case through its counsel.IHC Chief Justice Athar Minallah observed that the cooperation of the Indian government was necessary for implementation of the ICJ decision, adding that it could approach the court if it had reservations.Indian High Commission’s lawyer Shahnawaz Noon appeared before the court in another case pertaining to prisoner Jaspal and told the court that he had been instructed to get some documents from the attorney general’s office but he had been refused. To this, the IHC chief justice said the lawyer should have approached the court if he could not get documents.On the query of the bench pertaining to Kulbhushan Jadhav case and consular access, the Indian High Commission’s lawyer said he would inform the court after taking instructions from his client. He requested the court to grant one-week time which was accepted by the bench.The bench adjourned the hearing in the case till December 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kulbhushan-jadhav-pak-court-gives-more-time-next-hearing-in-dec/story-fvQPgt0LgleWfq6LCIywsI.html
09-11-2020||World||President-elect Joe Biden warns country of ‘dark winter’ ahead with Covid-19 surge||President-elect Joe Biden warned on Monday that the U.S. was facing a “dark winter” and many more deaths as the coronavirus continues to spread unabated.“There’s a need for bold action to fight this pandemic. We’re still facing a very dark winter,” he said in somber remarks after meeting with his newly appointed coronavirus task force.He called on all Americans to wear masks consistently as the best way to fight infection.“It doesn’t matter your party. It doesn’t matter who you voted for,” he said. “We can save tens of thousands of lives if everyone would just wear a mask.”His remarks came as Housing and Urban Development Ben Carson, a physician, tested positive for Covid-19.His transition team is seeking to fulfill a campaign promise to develop a dramatically different approach than President Donald Trump’s to contain the pandemic.The 13-member task force is composed largely of doctors and public health experts, who will work with Biden, Vice President-elect Kamala Harris and the transition team to map out the public health and economic policies needed to curtail the virus.The task force was announced only hours before positive preliminary test results were released of a Covid-19 vaccine being developed by Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE indicating it prevented more than 90% of infections. The study involved tens of thousands of volunteers.Eight months into the worst pandemic in a century, the preliminary results pave the way for the companies to seek an emergency-use authorization from regulators if further research shows the shot is also safe.Biden, in a statement issued Monday, congratulated “the brilliant women and men who helped produce this breakthrough,” but warned that “the end of the battle against Covid-19 is still months away.”Even if “some Americans are vaccinated later this year, it will be many more months before there is widespread vaccination in this country,” Biden said. “Today’s news does not change this urgent reality. Americans will have to rely on masking, distancing, contact tracing, hand washing, and other measures to keep themselves safe well into next year.”From the onset of the pandemic, Biden said it was critical to listen to scientists and medical experts in charting a path out of the pandemic. He staked much of his presidential campaign on striking a contrast with Trump, who repeatedly downplayed the dangers of the virus even after being hospitalized when he contracted it.The team will be led by former Surgeon General Vivek Murthy, former Food and Drug Administration Commissioner David Kessler, and Marcella Nunez-Smith, a professor of public health at Yale University. It will include about a dozen people, many of whom were already advising Biden and his staff throughout the campaign. Kessler and Murthy, in particular, were deeply involved in shaping the Biden campaign’s plans for responding to the virus, and they both regularly briefed the president-elect.The transition and the task force face the difficult task of figuring out how to implement the policies Biden has proposed, including identifying supply chain issues for vaccine distribution and increased testing.The announcement of the task force is the first step Biden and his team are taking to demonstrate the high value they will place in having experts and doctors guide their response.“Dealing with the coronavirus pandemic is one of the most important battles our administration will face, and I will be informed by science and by experts,” Biden said in a statement. “The advisory board will help shape my approach to managing the surge in reported infections; ensuring vaccines are safe, effective, and distributed efficiently, equitably, and free; and protecting at-risk populations.”The task force will also include Atul Gawande, a surgeon at Brigham and Women’s Hospital, Michael Osterlohm, director of the Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy at the University of Minnesota, Celine Gounder, a professor of Medicine and Infectious Diseases at New York University and Ezekiel Emanuel, a former Obama administration health adviser.Other members are Luciana Borio, vice president at In-Q-Tel, Rick Bright, the former director of the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority, Julie Morita, the executive vice president of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Loyce Pace, president of Global Health Council, Robert Rodriguez, a professor of emergency medicine at the UCSF School of Medicine, and Eric Goosby, an expert on infectious diseases and professor of medicine at the UCSF School of Medicine.The coronavirus has infected nearly 10 million people in the U.S. and killed more than 237,000 as daily case counts continue to rise and set records. Biden campaigned on shepherding an aggressive federal effort to contain the virus and renewed that promise on Saturday night.While the task force and the transition team will be laying the groundwork for a muscular federal approach, the president-elect cannot officially implement policy changes until he’s in office.During the campaign, Biden released a plan to combat the coronavirus that said his response would aim to restore trust in the government, create a cohesive national strategy, make treatments affordable, provide economic relief to those impacted by the virus and work with other countries to stop the virus’ spread.His plans also call for a national masking mandate, though Biden has acknowledged that would be difficult to enforce outside federal property, as well as expanded access to testing and the development of a vaccine that would be provided for free.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/president-elect-joe-biden-warns-country-of-dark-winter-ahead-with-covid-19-surge/story-f3qvZdyc7Sk62qtOwuHAqN.html
09-11-2020||World||Will take Covid-19 vaccine first to ease out safety concerns: Pfizer CEO||Pfizer CEO Albert Bourla on Monday said that he would like to take the Covid-19 vaccine, in development by the US pharmaceutical giant, first to ease any public concerns about its safety. This comes after the company announced that its vaccine was more than 90% effective in preventing Covid-19 for those who had no evidence of previously being infected.Speaking during an interview with a US channel, Bourla said, “I would very much like to be among the first to get the vaccine but we need to see some ethical considerations. ““If we have a limited number of doses, I’m not sure if the government would recommend people of my age ... or work capacity to be among the first to get a vaccine. So, I want to respect that,” he added.“Covid-19 vaccine is likely the biggest medical breakthrough in 100 years when you account for the impact on health and global economy,” Bourla also said.Earlier in the day, Pfizer announced that early results from its coronavirus vaccine suggest the shots may be a surprisingly robust 90% effective at preventing Covid-19, putting the company on track to apply later this month for emergency-use approval from the Food and Drug Administration.Also Read | ‘Made me smile from ear to ear’: Leaders hail Pfizer announcement in Covid-19 vaccine developmentMeanwhile, Dr Anthony Fauci, the US government’s top-infectious disease expert, hailed the vaccine findings as extraordinary and said, “Not many people expected it would be as high as that.”“It’s going to have a major impact on everything we do with respect to Covid,” Fauci said.Based on supply projections, the companies are expecting to supply 50 million vaccine doses globally by the end of this year. Up to 1.3 billion doses will be supplied in 2021.Since its outbreak last year, the coronavirus disease has wreaked havoc in the world and the global cases exceeded 50 million in a grim milestone on Monday. While the death toll is over 1,255,000.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/will-take-covid-19-vaccine-first-to-ease-out-safety-concerns-pfizer-ceo/story-nJD0twE3hHINgNlfb5U61M.html
09-11-2020||World||Russian military helicopter shot down in Armenia, 2 killed||Russia said Monday that one of its military helicopters was shot down in Armenia, near the border with Azerbaijan, killing two servicemen.The incident occurred near the border with the Azerbaijan exclave of Nakhchivan.Armenian and Azerbaijani forces have been fighting for six weeks over the region of Nagorno-Karabakh, which is within Azerbaijan but has been under the control of ethnic Armenians since 1994.Nakhchivan is about 70 kilometers (40 miles) from Nagorno-Karabakh and it was not clear if the helicopter shootdown was connected with the conflict.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russian-military-helicopter-shot-down-in-armenia-2-killed/story-bZ6dUAxhofpu1Is2Oj84xO.html
09-11-2020||World||Covid-19 vaccine could fundamentally change pandemic direction: WHO||A Covid-19 vaccine may be rolled out by March 2021 to the most vulnerable, which along with other advances could fundamentally change the course of the pandemic, a senior World Health Organization (WHO) official said on Monday.Bruce Aylward also told the WHO’s annual ministerial assembly that interim results announced from Pfizer Inc’s late-stage vaccine trials were “very positive”. “There is still much work to be done, this is just interim results...but some very positive results coming today which should hold great promise hopefully for the entire world as we move forward,” Aylward told the 194-member state forum.Pfizer said its experimental Covid-19 vaccine with partner BioNTech was more than 90% effective.WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus tweeted shortly afterwards: “We welcome the encouraging vaccine news from @pfizer & @BioNTech_Group & salute all scientists & partners around the who are developing new safe, efficacious tools to beat #Covid19.’Aylward, referring to all three pillars of the ACT (Access to Covid Tools) Accelerator launched in April, said: “In diagnostics we are in a position to massively expand testing globally, in therapeutics we have sufficient tools right now to substantially reduce the risk of dying from this disease and in the area of vaccines - with the news of today especially - we are on the verge of having the readiness in place to roll out doses for high-risk populations in the late first quarter, early 2nd quarter.” However, he warned that an “acute funding gap” of $4.5 billion could slow access to tests, medicines and vaccines in low- and middle-income countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-vaccine-could-fundamentally-change-pandemic-direction-who/story-Ht5SRI1BiiTx0rYow71kpJ.html
09-11-2020||World||‘Made me smile from ear to ear’: Leaders hail Pfizer announcement in Covid-19 vaccine development||US-based pharmaceutical giant Pfizer on Monday announced that its experimental vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) was more than 90% effective in preventing infections in the ongoing Phase 3 trials. The latest development in Covid-19 race came as a big victory in the race against the virus which infected millions and killed more across the world.US President Donald Trump hailed the results as “Such great news!” “Stock market up big, vaccine coming soon. Report 90% effective. Such great news!” tweeted Trump after equities and oil price soared.President-elect Joe Biden also welcomed the latest development and said it gives “hope” but cautioned that a long battle is still ahead. It “did not change the fact that face masks, social distancing and other health measures would be needed well into next year,” Biden said in a statement. “I congratulate the brilliant women and men who helped produce this breakthrough and to give us such cause for hope,” Biden also said.“This news made me smile from ear to ear. It is a relief to see such positive results on this vaccine and bodes well for Covid-19 vaccines in general,” Peter Horby, professor of emerging infectious diseases at the University of Oxford, was quoted as saying by Reuters.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“Today’s news about the anti-Covid vaccine is encouraging. But caution is still needed. Scientific research is the real key to overcoming the emergency. In the meantime, we must never forget that the behaviour of each of us is essential to bend the curve,” said Italian health minister Roberto Speranza in reaction to the findings.To save time, the companies began manufacturing the Covid-19 vaccine before they knew whether it would be effective. They now expect to produce up to 50 million doses, or enough to protect 25 million people this year.Pfizer said it expects to produce up to 1.3 billion doses of the vaccine in 2021. Based on supply projections, the companies are expecting to supply 50 million vaccine doses globally by the end of this year. Up to 1.3 billion doses will be supplied in 2021. Pfizer and German partner BioNTech SE are the first drugmakers to release successful data from a large-scale clinical trial of a coronavirus vaccine. The companies also said they have so far found no serious safety concerns.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/made-me-smile-from-ear-to-ear-leaders-hail-pfizer-announcement-in-covid-19-vaccine-development/story-33AJ1it55oCF8ygKgRSuSP.html
09-11-2020||World||UK: 4 life-terms for Indian-origin man on stabbing spree||Carlos Vinodchandra Racitalal, who went on a stabbing spree in the east Midlands town of Leicester in January, has been given four life sentences to run concurrently, the local police said following a nine-day trial.Racitalal, 33, stabbed a 10-year-old boy, a woman in her 30s and a man in his 70s. In another incident, a five-year-old girl was hit with a car, the Leicester Crown Court was told. He was also found guilty of three counts of possession of a bladed article.He will spend a minimum term of 22 years and six months in jail, the court said in its sentencing order last week. The victims survived the attacks after hospital treatment, including the boy who suffered a slash wound to his neck and underwent surgery.Justice Linden said: “What has struck me about this case: had there not been such a thorough and prompt police investigation, particularly regarding the work done in relation to the CCTV, the defendant would most likely still be at large – as his victims were unable to identify their attacker.”Detective inspector Tim Lindley said: “Racitalal is an extremely dangerous man who had no concern, regard or remorse for any of his victims, who ranged from young children to an elderly man. Racitalal carried out his attacks with weapons including knives and a car, before then running away or driving off from the scene.”“My thoughts and thanks are with the victims of these attacks, for their bravery, patience and co-operation during an extremely traumatic time. I hope this court result helps in some small way as they continue to move forward in their lives,” he added.The family of the boy said in a statement: “Seeing our young child being attacked on that horrific day was like living a nightmare for us. It is something which no-one should ever have to go through.”“Life will simply never be the same for us. We do not wish for anyone to ever go through what we have been through since that day. All of the attacks which were carried out by the defendant were terrible and horrific for all the victims involved and for their families”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-4-life-terms-for-indian-origin-man-on-stabbing-spree/story-TbZPsHHq5OxN0GUuVbLoIL.html
09-11-2020||World||Biden’s win complicates Brexit matters for UK PM Johnson||Weeks before the UK finally leaves the EU on December 31, the election of Joe Biden raises two linked issues before Boris Johnson, the British prime minister the US president-elect has never met in person.Biden has met and worked with all British prime ministers since Margaret Thatcher, but has not exactly had laudatory views of the current incumbent in Downing Street, who he described in December as “a physical and emotional clone of Trump”.Proud of his Irish origins, Biden has made known his opposition to the UK leaving the EU. During the election campaign, Biden warned that he would not accept any deal that imperilled the 1998 Good Friday Agreement and peace in Northern Ireland; a position reiterated by his team soon after his election was apparent.The agreement, which is credited with ending most of the violence in the trouble-torn constituent of the UK, is considered to be at risk after the Johnson government piloted the controversial Internal Markets Bill in parliament, which, if it becomes law, would enable London to violate parts of the withdrawal agreement reached with Brussels.The bill has been passed in the House of Commons and is due to be debated in the House of Lords on Monday. Johnson and his ministers have insisted that the bill’s provisions are necessary as a safety valve in post-Brexit dealings with the EU.The second issue Biden’s win raises is a future free trade agreement with the US, one of the UK’s largest export markets. Biden was the vice-president when President Barack Obama came to London in 2016 and said Brexit would put the UK “back of queue” for trade talks.Former Prime Minister Gordon Brown said on Monday that Johnson should see the writing on the wall that he would not get the trade deal with the US if the Good Friday Agreement is imperilled through the provisions of the Internal Market Bill.The UK and US have what is long categorised as a “special relationship”, with close ties in areas of defence, intelligence and counter-terrorism. For the US, the UK also had a special role due its membership of the EU, but Brexit means it will no longer be able to leverage it to the US’ benefit.Johnson and other British leaders congratulated Biden and vice-president-elect Kamala Harris, with the prime minister tweeting: “The US is our important ally and I look forward to working closely together on our shared priorities, from climate change to trade and security.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-s-win-complicates-brexit-matters-for-uk-pm-johnson/story-ZoGDoHLecWetZudB7RytDN.html
09-11-2020||World||On Kartarpur anniversary, Pak says India yet to reopen its side of corridor||On the occasion of the first anniversary of the opening of the Kartarpur Corridor, Pakistan has said that while it had reopened the corridor in June after closing it due to concerns over Covid-19 pandemic, India is yet to reopen its side. The Pakistan foreign office statement on Monday came days after India’s protest against Islamabad’s decision to hand over management of Durbar Sahib Gurdwara in Kartarpur to a body without any Sikh representatives.Last week, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said Aftab Hassan Khan, chargé d’affaires at the Pakistan high commission, was “summoned and our strong protest was conveyed”.“It was also conveyed to him that this unilateral decision by Pakistan is highly condemnable and runs against the spirit of the Kartarpur Sahib Corridor as also the religious sentiments of the Sikh community at large,” he said.According to a notification issued on November 3, Pakistan’s religious affairs ministry handed over management of the gurdwara to a “project management unit” under the Evacuee Trust Property Board (ETPB), a government department that oversees shrines of the country’s minorities.The gurdwara was earlier under the management of the Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC). There are no Sikhs among the officials and staff appointed by the ETPB for Darbar Sahib Gurdwara.The Kartarpur corridor was temporarily closed on 16 March due to the Covid-19. “As the religious places started gradually opening up around the world, Pakistan also reopened the Corridor on 29 June 2020 with Covid related necessary health safety protocols. India has yet to reopen the Corridor from its side and allow the Sikh pilgrims to visit Kartarpur Sahib,” the Pakistan foreign ministry statement said.The Corridor, inaugurated on 9 November 2019 by Prime Minister Imran Khan on the eve of the 550th Birth Anniversary of Baba Guru Nanak, fulfilled the long-awaited desire of the Sikh community from all over the world, it noted. Kartarpur has a special significance in the Sikh religion, as the first Guru of Sikhism, Baba Guru Nanak Saheb, had spent the last years of his life in Kartarpur, the statement noted. It said that the Kartarpur Corridor, also known as the “Peace Corridor”, is a true symbol of inter-faith harmony and religious unity. The Sikh as well as the international community, including the UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres, who while visiting Kartarpur described it as “Corridor of Hope”, has immensely appreciated this landmark initiative of Pakistan, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/on-kartarpur-anniversary-pak-says-india-yet-to-reopen-its-side-of-corridor/story-lsnYuN1aZojDLxvfNmjZ3J.html
09-11-2020||World||China declines to congratulate Joe Biden, state media cautious about victory||China on Monday held off on acknowledging Joe Biden as the winner of the US presidential election, saying the outcome of the vote was still to be determined and it would follow custom in responding.The Democratic Party’s Biden won enough seats to win the tightly fought election but incumbent President Donald Trump has not yet accepted defeat and has filed lawsuits against the outcome.“We noticed that Mr Biden has declared election victory,” foreign ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin told a daily media briefing.“We understand that the US presidential election result will be determined following US law and procedures,” he said.The Reuters news agency pointed out in a report that in 2016, Chinese President Xi Jinping had sent congratulations to Donald Trump soon after his election.Hu Xijin, editor of the nationalist state-run tabloid, Global Times, said in a tweet: “China hasn’t congratulated Biden on his victory as quickly as Western countries did.”“I think it’s because China needs to keep larger distance from the US presidential election to avoid getting entangled in its controversy. This actually shows that China respects the US as a whole,” he added.Relations between China and the US are at their worst in decades over disputes ranging from technology and trade to Hong Kong, Taiwan, human rights in Xinjiang and the coronavirus.“We always believe that China and the United States should enhance communication and dialogue, manage differences on the basis of mutual respect, expand cooperation on the basis of mutual benefit and promote sound and stable development of bilateral relations,” Wang said.Chinese state media, however, has struck a cautious note of optimism ahead of his presidency, saying fraught bilateral ties have a chance to revert to a state of predictability. Separate editorials in leading state-run dailies indicated that trade would be an important focus in improving bilateral ties under Biden while acknowledging that Washington was unlikely to ease pressure on Beijing on issues like human rights.The state-run China Daily, in an editorial headlined “Relations can be reset for the better”, said that there is to be “…a resetting of relations, the trade deal is clearly the point to start from.”“Despite the popular assumption that trade no longer functions as the ‘ballast’ for China-US relations as it has over the past decades, it is one of the last threads linking the two sides,” the editorial said, adding: “It is notable that neither Beijing nor Washington has ventured to scrap the hard-earned so-called phase one deal they negotiated.”The Global Times said the US was unlikely to ease pressure on China on issues such as Xinjiang and Hong Kong but added that Beijing should work to communicate with the Biden team as thoroughly as it can. The Trump administration had deliberately created tensions in China-U.S. relations, especially after adopting a campaign strategy of pressuring China, which led to “bubbles” occurring in U.S.-China policy, it said.“We believe it is possible to pop those bubbles. Beijing should undertake to communicate with the Biden team as thoroughly as it can, making greater joint efforts to recover China-US relations to a state of great predictability.” In terms of the economy and trade, Biden is highly likely to continue Trump’s “maximum pressure” campaign, but probably not with reckless gambling-style moves, the Global Times editorial said.“In the past few years, the US has adopted some clumsy measures that have hurt both itself and others…A change in administration might bring some pragmatic attempts of adjustment in this regard based on realities,” it said.Meanwhile, US politics and election continued to trend on Weibo over the weekend with related topics racking up hundreds of millions of views on China’s Twitter-like social media platform.“American politics is flavour of the day on Chinese social media since voting began in person Tuesday. By Nov. 5 the hashtag “U.S. presidential election” racked up 7 billion views on Weibo. Also popular are “Top online search in America on polling day is how to move to Canada” and “Trump and Biden supporters clash outside the White House” with combined views numbering around 200 million,” the news and business website, Caixin.com reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-declines-to-congratulate-joe-biden-state-media-cautious-about-victory/story-BA4Tgbnd3qbfwehd6Np5sK.html
09-11-2020||World||Boris Johnson pays tribute to British Indian Army of World War-II||UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson has paid a special tribute to the British Indian Army, the largest volunteer force in history that was put together to fight on the frontiers of the Second World War, for their immense contribution to the victory of the Allied Forces against Nazi Germany. In a message for the Remember Together campaign, set up to honour the millions of Commonwealth troops who joined the war effort as part of the then British Empire, Johnson said it was important to “remember their sacrifice and celebrate their achievement”.“In every theatre of the Second World War, volunteers from India, Africa and the Caribbean made an immense contribution to victory,” said Johnson, in a statement to coincide with the annual Armistice Day commemoration this week for war martyrs.“The British Indian Army mobilised 2.5 million personnel and became the largest volunteer force in history,” Johnson said.“When Britain embarked on the liberation of South-East Asia, assembling nearly a million troops in the 14th Army, the great majority of the soldiers in this magnificent unit came from India and Africa. Volunteers from as far away as Sierra Leone and Nigeria helped to release Myanmar from Japanese occupation,” the UK prime minister noted.“All of these courageous people chose to fight for freedom under the British flag. Their service helped to defeat a terrible evil and allow millions to live in peace and prosperity,” he said.The Remember Together campaign, a joint initiative by the Royal British Legion and British Future as part of the Together Coalition, has been campaigning for greater efforts to commemorate, teach and document the service of soldiers from Commonwealth nations in the Second World War.The Remember Together initiative seeks to address that imbalance, ensuring that the service and sacrifice of all those who fought are commemorated and helping to make remembrance feel relevant and inclusive to people of all creeds and colours in Britain today,” the campaign said in a statement.The Opposition Labour Party Leader, Sir Keir Starmer, also commended the bravery of the Indian troops ahead of Armistice Day, which is commemorated annually on November 11 – the date in 1918 which marked the end of the First World War.“We will never forget the bravery of the 1.5 million Indian soldiers that fought in the British Army in the trenches of World War I, or the allies we stood shoulder to shoulder with in the face of fascism in World War II. When we remember, we remember those of every creed and colour who gave their today in order that we could all have tomorrow,” he said.“While this year’s remembrance may look different, Britain will still honour all those who have fought for our country – from every village, every town and every city. But, thanks to the efforts of Remember Together, we will also remember that we have never stood alone,” he said.As part of the transformed commemorations this year, the UK-based Commonwealth War Graves Commission (CWGC) is also calling on Indians to join a global virtual Remembrance ceremony to honour soldiers killed in the World Wars by naming a star in remembrance of someone and looking up into the night sky at 7 pm on November 11 to remember Indian servicemen and women.Through a virtual experience on the CWGC website, making use of the Commission’s existing extensive records and search facility, the worldwide public will be able to name stars after any one of the 1.7 million Commonwealth war dead in the CWGC’s care.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/boris-johnson-pays-tribute-to-british-indian-army-of-world-war-ii/story-pEGWKaRcsN7FKDXpEZ8azJ.html
09-11-2020||World||FDA approves Singapore-based kit to detect neutralising antibodies from Covid-19||A kit invented by researchers in Singapore to detect whether someone has antibodies which neutralise the coronavirus has become the first of its kind to receive authorisation from the United States’ Food and Drug Administration (FDA), according to a media report on Monday.The FDA said on its website last Friday that it had given emergency use authorisation for the kit, known as cPass, reported The Straits Times on Monday.The kit was invented by a team led by Professor Wang Linfa, director of Duke-National University of Singapore’s emerging infectious diseases programme, and co-developed with biotech company GenScript Biotech Corporation and the Agency for Science, Technology and Research’s (A*Star) Diagnostics Development Hub (DxD Hub).It can be used to see if vaccines work, check what proportion of the population has already been infected, and assist in contact tracing by enabling the health authorities to retrace the steps of the virus.It does not require highly specialised equipment or training to use and returns results in just an hour.Prof Wang told The Straits Times that the FDA’s approval was extremely significant not just for his team, but for Singapore as well.“To have the FDA approval as the first and only commercial kit to determine neutralising antibodies for Sars-CoV-2 in the world is a very high bar to reach,” the daily quoted Professor Wang as saying.“This is an incredible recognition for our team and the Singapore research and biotech landscape.Meanwhile, Singapore reported eight imported Covid-19 cases on Monday, bringing the country’s infection tally to 58,064.There have been no new locally transmitted Covid-19 cases for four consecutive days, said the Ministry of Health (MOH).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fda-approves-singapore-based-kit-to-detect-neutralising-antibodies-from-covid-19/story-xmH9XTYVws6Hdvqt1iy5KJ.html
09-11-2020||World||Covid-19 vaccine 90% effective in Phase 3 trial, says US pharma giant Pfizer||The vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which is being developed by US pharmaceutical giant Pfizer and German biotech firm BioNTech, is 90% effective in preventing infections in the ongoing Phase 3 trials, Pfizer announced on Monday.“The first set of results from our Phase 3 Covid-19 vaccine trial provides the initial evidence of our vaccine’s ability to prevent Covid-19,” Pfizer’s chairperson and CEO Albert Bourla said. “We are a significant step closer to providing people around the world with a much-needed breakthrough to help bring an end to this global health crisis,” Bourla added.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageProtection in patients was achieved seven days after the second of two doses, and 28 days after the first, according to preliminary findings. The findings are based on an interim analysis conducted after 94 participants contracted the illness. The trial will continue until 164 cases have occurred. The preliminary results pave the way for the companies to seek an emergency-use authorization from regulators if further research shows the shot is also safe.Based on supply projections, the companies are expecting to supply 50 million vaccine doses globally by the end of this year. Up to 1.3 billion doses will be supplied in 2021.Meanwhile, US President Donald Trump hailed the announcement as “such great news”. “Stock market up big, vaccine coming soon. Report 90% effective. Such great news!” Trump tweeted.Since its outbreak last year, the coronavirus disease has wreaked havoc in the world and the global cases exceeded 50 million in a grim milestone on Monday. While the death toll is over 1,255,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pfizer-says-covid-19-vaccine-90-effective-in-phase-3-trial/story-PzWuudAR71lM4bB7A8hMtK.html
09-11-2020||World||Gunmen kill at least 11 in attack on Iraqi army post in Baghdad: Sources||Unidentified gunmen killed at least 11 people and wounded eight others including soldiers in an attack on an Iraqi army post in western Baghdad, police sources and medics said on Monday. The assailants in four vehicles attacked the post in the capital’s southwestern district of Al-Radhwaniya using grenades and automatic weapons, the sources said. The Iraqi military said in a statement that a “terrorist group” of four elements attacked a post of a government-backed Sunni militiamen, killing four people and wounding three. The army and police forces have started an operation in search of the attackers, police sources said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/gunmen-kill-at-least-11-in-attack-on-iraqi-army-post-in-baghdad-sources/story-TnxSTO0Mbn1tB8PzbHfiMO.html
09-11-2020||World||China set to oust Hong Kong pro-democracy lawmakers in fresh purge: Report||China intends to oust at least four pro-democracy lawmakers from Hong Kong’s elected legislature, HK01 reported, escalating its crackdown against the city’s beleaguered opposition.China’s top legislative body, the National People’s Congress Standing Committee, was expected to consider during a two-day meeting that starts Tuesday whether the lawmaker’s actions violated their oaths, HK01 reported Monday, citing people it didn’t identify. The meetings were likely to result in the disqualification of Dennis Kwok, Kwok Ka-ki, Kenneth Leung and Alvin Yeung, the news site said, leaving the 70-seat Legislative Council with just 16 opposition lawmakers.China has taken a series of unprecedented steps to intervene in the affairs of the former British colony since a wave of historically large and sometimes violent democracy protests gripped the city last year. Since June, the Chinese government has imposed a sweeping national security law and extended the terms of sitting lawmakers to allow the local government to delay local elections for a year.Any move to disqualify elected lawmakers would underscore international concerns about Hong Kong’s autonomy just as President-elect Joe Biden prepares to take office on a promise to defend democratic values around the world. The Trump administration earlier this year leveled sanctions against 10 officials over their roles in curbing Hong Kong’s autonomy.While the HK01 report didn’t specify the grounds for disqualification, the four lawmakers have been criticized by authorities for using delay tactics common in democratic legislatures around the world. All four had been previously barred from seeking re-election to the chamber, another tactic the government has increasingly used to silence its critics.‘Not Suitable’Hong Kong’s sole delegate to the NPC Standing Committee, Tam Yiu-chung, warned that lawmakers who engage in such delay tactics “are not suitable” for public office, the South China Morning Post newspaper reported separately Monday. “It isn’t good to use various means to disrupt LegCo’s normal operation,” Tam said.Such disqualifications raise new questions about the future of Hong Kong’s opposition, which has used the legislature as a platform to challenge Beijing’s agenda since the city’s return to Chinese rule in 1997. After several radical “localist” activists were among a record 29 opposition lawmakers elected in 2016, China handed down a ruling that led to the disqualification of a half dozen lawmakers.Two opposition lawmakers resigned their seats in September in protest against China’s decision to extend the legislature’s term by a year without an election. Several remaining lawmakers are also facing criminal charges related to various protests against the government, including seven charged in recent months with participating in a May scuffle at the Legislative Council.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-set-to-oust-hong-kong-pro-democracy-lawmakers-in-fresh-purge-report/story-DzPQl6MclMpGmBIeWA5XII.html
09-11-2020||World||Pakistani farmers, who wanted to meet PM Imran Khan, go ‘missing’||Farmers protesting in Punjab last week demanding their rights have no clue about the whereabouts of their 15 colleagues who went missing after the police began baton charging their protest and arrested around 250 farmers on Multan Road, Dawn reported.“In fact, the farmers, who were severely injured during the Wednesday mayhem - when police used the batons, water cannons and tear-gassed - were whisked away to unidentified places and are being treated before release. The farmers knew this (being kept at private police places) for the last three days and it has been confirmed by the Saturday returnees as well,” Malk Zulfiqar Awan, president of one wing of Pakistan Kissan Ittehad (PKI), was quoted as saying.He further said, “We will return to roads shortly. We are observing qul of the martyred leader Malik Ashfaq on Sunday (today). After that, we plan to call the meeting of the district presidents of the PKI and announce next round of protest. It is a fight for our rights and will be fought to the end.”Condemning the police for resorting to baton charge on the protesters, Ch Muhammad Anwer, chairman of the PKI, said, “We were simply demonstrating for our rights. All those who came to negotiate on behalf of the government expressed sympathy to our cause and agreed to our demand being perfectly justified revision of wheat support price to Rs 2,000 per 40 kg.”“We were demanding just a meeting either with Punjab Chief Minister Usman Buzdar or Prime Minister Imran Khan to persuade them on the rationality of our demand. We still have not been able to comprehend why police were unleashed and unleashed with such ferocity. Both Punjab and federal governments must remember that movements for rights cannot be controlled or killed with the police force. The PKI is going to convene meetings of all district presidents to chalk out next phase of protest,” he added.Following the incident, farmers’ bodies in the province and civil society organisation have decided to support PKI in their protest.“The government has killed a farmer but still it’s not listening to farmers. I have been to three districts today, attending farmers’ meeting and have seen a very high level of anger among them. The soon government take notice of all four issues - pricing of wheat, killing of a farmers’ leader, quick release of those still missing and factors behind police atrocity - the better it would be. Otherwise, the farmers may return to roads with more determination and anger,” said Farooq Tariq, general secretary of Kissan Rabita Committee. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistani-farmers-who-wanted-to-meet-pm-imran-khan-go-missing/story-T9UEqqJVGiIvds7Bz1es6J.html
09-11-2020||World||India welcomes normalisation of ties between Sudan and Israel||India on Monday welcomed the removal of Sudan from the US list of state sponsors of terrorism and the country’s normalisation of relations with Israel. The external affairs ministry said in a statement that India’s relations with Sudan are “historic and special, and forged on the basis of shared values and close people-to-people contacts”. Last month, Sudan became the third Arab state to normalise relations with Israel, after the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain. The move came days after the outgoing Trump administration removed Sudan from its list of state sponsors of terrorism, in which the country was included in 1993. “We welcome the removal of Sudan from the list of state sponsors of terrorism and Sudan’s normalisation of relations with Israel,” the external affairs ministry’s statement said. Also Read: Sudan to normalise ties with Israel, announces President Donald Trump days before US elections“We congratulate the transitional government and the people of Sudan on the signing of the Juba Peace Agreement, and hope that these positive developments will usher in democratic changes and contribute to enhancing Sudan’s development, peace, security and stability,” it added. President Donald Trump had announced that Sudan was being removed from the terror list in exchange for the payment of $335 million as compensation for the victims of terror attacks on US embassies in Nairobi and Dar-es-Salaam in 1998 and on the warship USS Cole in 2000. However, the delisting requires the approval of the US Congress. The US, Sudan and Israel also released a joint statement announcing the normalisation of relations. The agreement for normalising relations with Israel also needs to be approved by Sudan’s yet-to-be formed legislative council. This council needs to be created under a power-sharing deal between military officers and civilians who have been running Sudan since the overthrow of dictator Omar al-Bashir in 2019. The US administration’s push for normalising ties between Israel and Arab states was part of a strategy to ensure the re-election of Trump. However, Trump has been defeated in the presidential election by Democratic candidate Joe Biden.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-welcomes-normalisation-of-ties-between-sudan-and-israel/story-izGS7eyaOm1rW0FSVonegP.html
09-11-2020||World||For Biden, how to help mangled economy is next obstacle||Joe Biden will inherit a mangled US economy — one that never fully healed from the coronavirus and could suffer again as new infections are climbing. The once robust recovery has shown signs of gasping after federal aid lapsed. Ten million remain jobless and more layoffs are becoming permanent. The Federal Reserve says factory output dropped. Parents cannot return to work as childcare centers have shuttered. Restaurants and local retailers are draining whatever cash reserves are left--with many owners wondering if the next week might be their last. One in six restaurants was already closed in September, according to an industry survey.Biden will also be facing an American public with decidedly different views about their own financial well-being, with higher income families weathering the pandemic reasonably well and those earning far less in increasing economic peril. It will in some ways be a reprise of when Biden became vice president at the depths of the financial crisis in 2008-09, with possibly fewer tools and less political leverage to press an agenda to both corral the virus and stoke economic growth.He is expected to somehow inject enough aid to sustain workers, businesses and state and local governments, without necessarily having enough congressional partners who share his concerns. All of this could be the difference between a successful presidency and a floundering one. It’s unclear whether his victory was enough to tip the Senate to the Democrats — with two Senate seat runoffs in Georgia — and provide a clearer pathway for the money. This means that any efforts to secure another round of aid may depend on Republicans who were already voicing concerns about a rising budget deficit before the election.Senate Majority Leader McConnell of Kentucky previously said a measure should be passed before year-end, but it’s unknown in the aftermath of the election what a compromise would look like or whether President Donald Trump would back it. The longer that aid gets delayed, the greater the threat for the economy.“The risk is that the recovery goes into reverse,” said Gregory Daco, an economist for the consultancy Oxford Economics.AP VoteCast, a survey of more than 110,000 voters, found that the recession’s harm has mostly struck lower-income households, though most people were shielded in large part by initial rounds of aid that nearly totaled $3 trillion. Twenty-nine percent of voters in households earning less than $50,000 annually said they’re falling behind financially. Their misfortune is a sharp contrast to what’s happening for those with incomes above $100,000. Not only are higher-earners less likely to be struggling, but 26% said their finances are improving.Biden received more support than Trump from households earning less than $50,000. Voters in higher income households were more closely split between the two candidates. Among Biden voters, 89% said it was more important to contain the pandemic than limit any ongoing damage to the economy. This is likely because they see no trade-off: the economy will never safely recover so long as the threat of the coronavirus exists.“To get the economy under control, you need to get the virus under control,” said Amanda Fischer, policy director at the Washington Center for Equitable Growth, a liberal think tank. “It’s the K-shaped recovery—we see a divide between the wealthiest and everyone else.” The economy was objectively hurting as ballots were cast, even if it has improved since April. The unemployment rate was 6.9%, compared to 4.7% when Trump took office. Retail sales slipped 0.8% since the start of 2020, with a collapse at restaurants, clothiers and furniture stores.“The labor market still has a long way to go to recover to where it was before the pandemic,” said Jed Kolko, chief economist at the job posting firm Indeed. “Employment is down in almost all industries, dramatically down in industries that depend on travel and large gatherings.” The nation’s top public health officials are warning that the virus is likely escalating — record numbers of cases have been reported this week — and are beseeching Americans to wear masks, maintain social distance, and avoid large groups, especially indoors. The worsening disease could force more businesses to close.Still, 43% of voters believed the economy was excellent or good. This includes about three-quarters of voters backing Trump, who campaigned on the idea that the economy was booming and would continue to do if he remained president. With Biden in the White House, these once-optimistic voters may suddenly switch and say the economy is troubled.“That’s what we saw in 2016 — a reversal by party in economic confidence,” Kolko said. “It was dramatic and very quick after the election. I wouldn’t be surprised if we saw the same.” Alec Phillips, an economist at Goldman Sachs, wrote in a note Wednesday that control of the Senate will determine how much additional aid gets approved. He anticipates Republican control means a stimulus package under $1 trillion, but a Senate Democratic majority with Biden in the White House would push that up to $2.5 trillion to $3 trillion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/for-biden-how-to-help-mangled-economy-is-next-obstacle/story-P785rZEAwRqC4TbqxU4JXI.html
09-11-2020||World||Taiwan says not invited to WHO meeting after China’s ‘obstruction’||Taiwan is yet to receive an invite to a key World Health Organization (WHO) meeting this week expected to focus on the Covid-19 pandemic due to “obstruction” from China, the island’s foreign ministry said, expressing its displeasure. The U.S. mission in Geneva last week urged WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus to invite Chinese-claimed but democratically ruled Taiwan to the WHO’s decision-making body, the World Health Assembly (WHA).Late on Sunday, Taiwan’s Foreign Ministry said the island had yet to get an invite to the virtual meeting of 194 member states. “The Foreign Ministry expresses strong regret and dissatisfaction at China’s obstruction of Taiwan participating in the WHO and the WHO’s continuing to neglect the health and human rights of Taiwan’s 23.5 million people,” it added.The WHO’s refusal to invite Taiwan based on political considerations makes a mockery of the body’s “health for all” claim, the ministry said. Taiwan is locked out of most global organisations such as the WHO due to the objections of China, which considers the island one of its provinces with no right to the trappings of a sovereign state.The WHO says it is up to member states whether to invite Taiwan, which has been praised internationally for quickly containing the coronavirus, to observe the WHA meeting. Backed by the United States, Taiwan has stepped up lobbying this year to take part, angering China.China’s mission to the United Nations in Geneva on Friday denounced the “distorted” US remarks on Taiwan, saying the island can only take part if it admits to being part of China, something Taipei’s government has refused to do. The WHO says it cooperates with Taiwan on various health matters including on aspects of the pandemic and that the island has been provided with the help it needs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taiwan-says-not-invited-to-who-meeting-after-china-s-obstruction/story-HTewrLvLjxZl5Ya2QC3hCP.html
09-11-2020||World||UK govt, social media networks agree measures to tackle Covid-19 vaccine disinformation||The UK government and leading social media platforms have agreed on a set of new measures to tackle the spread of disinformation and misinformation related to vaccines against Covid-19, according to a joint press release published by the Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport, and the Department of Health and Social Care.Ministers have held a virtual roundtable with representatives from Facebook, Twitter, and Google, and the social media giants agreed to respond quicker to anti-vaccine misinformation and disinformation and gave a commitment that no profits should be made from such posts, according to the press release.“So I welcome this new commitment from social media giants not to profit from or promote flagged anti-vax content, given that making money from this dangerous content would be wrong,” Digital Secretary Oliver Dowden said in a press release on Sunday.Government officials also raised concerns about the length of time that misleading or false information remains on the social media platforms before it is deleted, according to the press release.In addition to tackling misleading information, social media networks will also work with public health bodies to ensure that “authoritative messages” about vaccine safety are spread as widely as possible, the government said.The UK Department of Health registered 20,572 new positive tests on Sunday, taking the country’s case total since the start of the pandemic to 1.19 million. The country’s death toll currently stands at 49,044, after 156 new deaths were registered on Sunday. (ANI/Sputnik)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-govt-social-media-networks-agree-measures-to-tackle-covid-19-vaccine-disinformation/story-LjJE2oJAkzL13jFPGjyYSP.html
09-11-2020||World||Texas becomes first US state to surpass one million coronavirus cases||Texas has become the first US state to cross over a million coronavirus cases as President-elect Joe Biden is getting to work to battle the deadly virus which has infected more than 9.8 million people in the country. According to Johns Hopkins University, Texas is one of the 31 states that has hit a record number of coronavirus cases this week. In Harris County, there are more than 167,000 cases and more than 2,300 deaths with the numbers climbing.“We have to remember we’re still in the middle of a public health crisis. Now, it’s starting to creep back up into the 8 per cent range and that starts to concern us,” said Dr. Umair Shah, the executive director of Harris County Public Health.The US is currently the world’s worst-hit nation from the pandemic and has had more than 9.8 million cases and over 237,000 deaths from the virus since the pandemic started in the central Chinese city of Wuhan last year.Johns Hopkins University’s coronavirus tracker reported more than 50.2 million Covid-19 cases globally as of Sunday.There have been more than 1.2 million deaths from the disease worldwide since the pandemic started. President-elect Biden in his victory speech assured Americans that his first task is to get the raging coronavirus pandemic under control with a definite plan that will be “built on bedrock science.” He also announced that on Monday he will form a group of leading scientists and experts to bring the pandemic under control.Indian-American physician Dr Vivek Murthy is expected to co-chair the coronavirus task force. Outgoing President Donald Trump has been accused of not listening to his own health experts on now to combat the deadly disease, allowing it to spread across the nation. Biden on Sunday on his transition website posted about his plans to fight the coronavirus. His initial plan calls for doubling the number of testing sites, investing in rapid at-home tests, creating a nationwide pandemic dashboard and mobilizing 100,000 Americans for contact tracing.His plan also calls for all governors to issue a mask mandate. Texas Governor Greg Abbott has already issued a mask mandate over the summer. It requires people to wear a face covering in public in counties with more than 20 confirmed positive cases.Dr David Persse, the city of Houston’s health authority, said, “We still have opportunities to get this under control and drive those numbers down, but that’s going to be left up to the individual, it’s nothing the mayor, county judge, [or] governor can do.” Persse said, “It’s painful when you have to have the governor lock things down. That hurts the economy, so let’s not get there. Let’s keep this under control with what we can do right now.” PTI SHK PMS PMS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/texas-becomes-first-us-state-to-surpass-one-million-coronavirus-cases/story-Bq7e4AIH116UNvSfYNLY6M.html
09-11-2020||World||Wantai to begin mid-stage trial for Covid-19 nasal spray vaccine in China||Beijing Wantai Biological Pharmacy Enterprise Co Ltd plans to start a mid-stage clinical trial this month of a nasal spray coronavirus vaccine in China, clinical trial registry data showed.An alternative to the common injection in the arm, the spray vaccine can trigger specific immune responses in airways by mimicking the natural infection of a respiratory virus, its researchers have said.A Phase 2 study involving 720 participants, run by a city-level disease control and prevention centre in the eastern province of Jiangsu, will take place from Nov. 17, showed a record in the Chinese Clinical Trail Registry dated Friday.The trial will see the vaccine given at two- or three-week intervals, and will test its safety and ability to elicit immune responses, showed the registry record.The candidate uses a weakened influenza virus to ferry the genetic snippet of the new coronavirus’ protein. The Phase 2 study will also evaluate how pre-existing antibodies against a specific type of flu virus in healthy people affect the vaccine.Beijing Wantai did not immediately response to a Reuters request for comment.Researchers in Britain are also studying inhaled versions of Covid-19 vaccine candidates to see if they deliver a localised immune response in the respiratory tract.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/wantai-to-begin-mid-stage-trial-for-covid-19-nasal-spray-vaccine-in-china/story-R6D9DB7mfcgQgqlquddcFN.html
09-11-2020||World||Australia says US return to Paris Agreement, WHO under Biden would be welcome||Australia would welcome President-elect Joe Biden restoring the United States to the Paris climate accord, Prime Minister Scott Morrison said on Monday, speaking as he faced renewed pressure himself to boost efforts to cut Australia’s carbon emissions.“We would be welcoming the United States back into the Paris Agreement, somewhere we’ve always been,” Morrison told reporters, saying a US return to other global organisations like the World Health Organization (WHO) would also be welcome.The United States formally withdrew from the Paris climate agreement last week, but Biden has promised to rejoin the Paris pact, and also commit to net zero emissions by 2050.Although Australia state and territory governments have adopted the same 2050 target for net zero emissions, Morrison’s federal government has yet to do so. Australia is a major exporter of fossil fuels, particularly coal, and Morrison said many countries have made qualified climate commitments.On Monday independent lawmaker Zali Steggall introduced a climate bill to federal parliament seeking a net zero target, saying Australia would be “the pariah of the international community” if it didn’t strengthen its climate commitments.Meanwhile, underlining Australia’s frustration with the outgoing President Donald Trump’s “America First” policies, Morrison said Australia would welcome the US back to the WHO, and potentially the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade pact, signed by Australia and 10 other countries in 2018.On Sunday, Morrison said Australia would also welcome the US engaging with the World Trade Organization, because the way out of a global recession triggered by the Covid-19 pandemic is “market-based trade, fair trade, under the proper rules through the World Trade Organization”.Australia is currently embroiled in a worsening commercial and diplomatic relationship with China, its largest trading partner.Australian exporters have expressed concern that Chinese importers were warned off buying seven categories of Australian products from November 6.Trade Minister Simon Birmingham said Chinese authorities had denied an “outright ban across a sweeping range of product categories”, and products appeared to be moving through Chinese ports at this stage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australia-says-us-return-to-paris-agreement-who-under-biden-would-be-welcome/story-ZO1EkpVpKGByaWqCQ1CCJM.html
09-11-2020||World||A new role for Kamala Harris: Comic book hero||She will be the next vice-president of the United States but Kamala Harris has chalked up yet another achievement: Heroine of a new comic book published in Canada.The comic, in English and French, is called Kamala in Canada, and is based on the years she spent in Montreal.In a way, the volume by Winnipeg-based Kaj Hasselriis portrays what may be her very first foray into politics. “I did some research and discovered that, when Harris was a kid in Montreal, the landlord of her apartment complex ordered children to stop playing soccer. Harris objected to the soccer ban and, in response, organised her first protest! I felt it would be an inspiring story for kids, so Kamala in Canada was born,” Hasselriis told the Hindustan Times.Kamala in Canada was published just last month and has received plenty of attention and orders, with the Montreal Gazette calling it “an inspiring tale of perhaps her first political battle.”Harris was 12 when her mother Shyamala Gopalan, along with Kamala’s younger sister Maya, went to Montreal to work at the Jewish General Hospital in the city.The author based his comic version on Harris’s own account of that experience in her memoir The Truths We Hold, as well as media articles.Hasselriis started a series called Polikids last October as Canada had its Federal elections. In that instalment, Canada’s Leaders Tell Their True Childhood Tales, he looked at the lives of those like Prime Minister Justin Trudeau. Given the popularity of that comic, Hasselriis was asked when he would produce a sequel. “When Joe Biden chose Kamala Harris to be his running mate, I knew I had the answer. I was reminded that Harris lived in Montreal for five years as a kid, from the ages of 12 to 17. Those are extremely formative years for anyone, so I knew that her time in Canada must have been influential.”The book also riffs on how like her mother Kamala Harris had to “adapt to a new country, a new language and a new culture”, including the freezing weather and learning French.As it became apparent that Harris would be the next VP, sales of Hasselriis’s comic tripled. The book is targeted at children just as the series is as the attempt behind the project is “to help get kids engaged in politics.”A former journalist, Hasselriis said as a freelance reporter he was in Kolkata in 2008 when Barack Obama was elected President and saw “how excited people were that a person of colour was finally going to the White House” and can just imagine the excitement with the Indian-origin Harris assuming the second highest office in the US.Harris may well be unaware of this tribute to five years of her childhood since she was busy with the 2020 campaign , but Hasselris mailed a copy to her Senate office in Washington. “I hope she enjoys it!” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/a-new-role-for-kamala-harris-comic-book-hero/story-owJFPWKWgdZjFSuNEbqQsL.html
09-11-2020||World||Car bomb blast in Kandahar kills at least 4, injures two dozen others||A car bomb has exploded in Afghanistan’s second-largest city, Kandahar, leading to several deaths, including among civilians, local sources told Sputnik on Monday.The explosion occurred late on Sunday night, targeting the Shahra Battalion (Shahra Kandak) in Kandahar’s Maiwand district, local security sources told Sputnik, adding that there were several dead and injured among both the military personnel and civilians.A source at Mirwais Hospital in Kandahar told Sputnik that 24 people were injured in the explosion, including 13 police officers and 11 civilians.Also Read: Former Afghan TV presenter killed in explosion in KabulThe source said that there were at least four dead: a child, two women and one man.Eyewitnesses told Sputnik that the blast destroyed several shops and houses and that some people could still be under the rubble.Earlier on Monday, a Kandahar police spokesman said that three soldiers were wounded in the attack.No group has taken responsibility for the car bomb explosion so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/car-bomb-blast-in-kandahar-kills-at-least-4-injures-two-dozen-others/story-rNqa25Zx7fxPLsMQABdoqM.html
09-11-2020||World||Turkish finance minister, President Erdogan’s son-in-law, quits post over ‘health’ reasons||Turkey’s finance minister and son-in-law to President Recep Tayyip Erdogan announced his resignation on social media Sunday.Berat Albayrak said on Instagram that he was stepping down from his post for health reasons and would spend more time with his family.Albayrak, 42, was appointed minister of finance and treasury in July 2018, having previously been energy minister for nearly three years.His resignation follows the dismissal over the weekend of central bank chief Murat Uysal and his replacement by former Finance Minister Naci Agbal.“I decided not to continue my duty as a minister after five years in office due to health problems,” Albayrak said. “I will spend time with my mother, father, wife and children, whom I have neglected for many years out of necessity and who have never spared me their support.”The resignation was confirmed by officials at the Finance Ministry, broadcaster HaberTurk reported, although it was unclear if it would be accepted by Erdogan.In April, Interior Minister Suleyman Soylu resigned on Twitter, only to withdraw the announcement within hours after Erdogan refused to accept it.Albayrak, who has four children with Erdogan’s daughter Esra, has presided over a rough period in the Turkish economy. The country was recovering from a currency crisis in 2018 when the coronavirus pandemic hit and Albayrak’s stewardship came under much criticism.Before entering politics, Albayrak worked for Calik Holding, rising to CEO in 2007.He became a lawmaker for Erdogan’s Justice and Development Party, or AKP, in 2015 and was shortly after appointed energy minister. According to some analysts, he was being groomed by Erdogan to be the president’s eventual successor.Timothy Ash, an emerging markets analyst at BlueBay Asset Management, questioned whether Albayrak’s health was the real reason for him quitting and suggested a “purge of Albayrak and his team.”Ash added that Albayrak’s close relationship with Jared Kushner, U.S. President Donald Trump’s adviser and son-in-law, was no longer important to Erdogan following Trump’s defeat in the US election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/turkish-finance-minister-president-erdogan-s-son-in-law-quits-post-over-health-reasons/story-FKAVm65E0RLI6MyqxxYrmL.html
09-11-2020||World||Eta expected to be hurricane and strike Florida Keys||A strengthening Tropical Storm Eta sliced across Cuba on Sunday and was aimed at the southern tip of Florida, where officials braced for a storm that could hit at hurricane force after leaving scores of dead and over 100 missing in Mexico and Central America.The US National Hurricane Center in Miami declared hurricane and storm surge warnings for the Keys from Ocean Reef to the Dry Tortugas, including Florida Bay, with the storm expected to reach that area by Sunday night or early Monday. Florida officials closed beaches, ports and Covid testing sites, shut down public transportation and urged residents to stay off the street. Several shelters also opened in Miami and the Florida Keys for residents in mobile homes and low lying areas. Broward County also shut down in-person schooling Monday and Miami seemed poised to do the same.On Sunday night, authorities in Lauderhill, Florida, responded to a report of a car that had driven into a canal. Photos taken by fire units on the scene about 30 miles (48 kilometers) north of Miami showed rescuers searching what appeared to be flooded waters near a parking lot. Firefighters pulled one person from a car and took the patient to a hospital in critical condition, according to a statement from Lauderhill Fire’s public information officer. Responders were continuing to search for others.Eta had maximum sustained winds of 65 mph (100 kph) on Sunday evening and was centered north of Cuba, about 65 miles (100 kilometers) east of Marathon, Florida, and about 90 miles (145 kilometers) south-southeast of Miami. It was moving northwest at 14 mph (22 kph).Read more | Donald Trump-to-Joe Biden handoff stalls as president rejects outcomeThe storm swelled rivers and flooded coastal zones in Cuba, where 25,000 had been evacuated. But there were no reports of deaths. Eta hit Cuba even as searchers in Guatemala were still digging for people believed buried by a massive, rain-fueled landslide. Authorities on Sunday raised the known death toll there to 27 from 15 and said more than 100 were missing in Guatemala, many of them in the landslide in San Cristobal Verapaz. Some 60,000 people had been evacuated in Guatemala. At least 20 people also were reported dead in southern Mexico and local officials in Honduras reported 21, though the national disaster agency had confirmed only eight.Pope Francis on Sunday spoke about the population of Central America, hit “by a violent hurricane, which has caused many victims and huge damage, worsened as well by the already difficult situation due to the pandemic.” Speaking to faithful gathered in St. Peter’s Square, Francis prayed that “the Lord welcome the deceased, comfort their families and sustain all those so tried, as well as all those who are doing their best to help them.”In Florida, Gov. Ron DeSantis declared a state of emergency Saturday for eight counties at the end of the state as Eta approached, urging residents to stock up on supplies. South Florida started emptying ports and a small number of shelters opened in Miami and the Florida Keys for residents in mobile homes and low-lying areas.Miami-Dade County declared a state of emergency Friday night and also warned a flood watch would be in effect through Tuesday night. Further south in the Keys, officials were monitoring the storm closely, but had no plans yet to evacuate tourists or residents. They urged residents to secure their boats and encouraged visitors to consider altering plans until Eta had passed. Eta initially hit Nicaragua as a Category 4 hurricane, and authorities from Panama to Mexico were still surveying the damages following days of torrential rains during the week.In Guatemala, search teams first had to overcome multiple landslides and deep mud just to reach the site where officials have estimated some 150 homes were devastated. In the worst-hit village, Quejá, at least five bodies have been pulled from the mud. The Indigenous community of about 1,200 residents consisted of simple homes of wood and tin roofs clinging to the mountainside. Read more | Joe Biden’s long history with China is unlikely to mend Trump-era riftRescue workers used a helicopter to evacuate survivor Emilio Caal, who said he lost as many as 40 family members and relatives. Caal, 65, suffered a dislocated shoulder when the landslide sent rocks, trees and earth hurtling onto the home where he was about to sit down to lunch with his wife and grandchildren. Caal said he was blown several yards (meters) by the force of the slide, and that none of the others were able to get out.“My wife is dead, my grandchildren are dead,” said Caal from a nearby hospital.Firefighters’ spokesman Ruben Tellez said at least one additional person died in Guatemala on Sunday when a small plane went down while carrying emergency supplies to the stricken area. In neighboring Honduras, 68-year-old María Elena Mejía Guadron died when the brown waters of the Chamelecon river poured into San Pedro Sula’s Planeta neighborhood before dawn Thursday. In southern Mexico, across the border from Guatemala, 20 people died as heavy rains attributed to Eta caused mudslides and swelled streams and rivers, according to Chiapas state civil defense official Elías Morales Rodríguez. The worst incident in Mexico occurred in the mountain township of Chenalho, where 10 people were swept away by a rain-swollen stream; their bodies were later found downstream.Flooding in the neighboring state of Tabasco was so bad that President Andrés Manuel López Obrador cut short a trip to western Mexico and was flying to Tabasco, his home state, to oversee relief efforts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eta-expected-to-be-hurricane-and-strike-florida-keys/story-VWMM36fMXO8HMXgxFmppRI.html
09-11-2020||World||Global coronavirus tally crosses 50 million, US continues to be worst affected||The coronavirus has hit another sobering milestone: more than 50 million positive cases worldwide since the pandemic began.Johns Hopkins University’s coronavirus tracker reported more than 50.2 million Covid-19 cases globally as of Sunday.There have been more than 1.2 million deaths from the disease worldwide since the pandemic started.The US, with about 4% of the world’s population, represents almost a fifth of all reported cases.The country has had more than 9.8 million cases and more than 237,000 deaths from the virus since the pandemic started, according to Johns Hopkins University’s data.Coronavirus cases and deaths also continue to soar in the US, as they are in many countries.The US reported more than 126,000 positive cases and more than 1,000 deaths from Covid-19 on Saturday, according to the university.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/global-coronavirus-tally-crosses-50-million-us-continues-to-be-worst-affected/story-nRvPIFtnsu6x749szVd6TI.html
09-11-2020||World||Republicans split on Biden’s election win as Trump refuses to concede defeat||Republicans are split on the projected win by President-elect Joe Biden even as President Donald Trump refused to concede defeat, claiming widespread voter fraud. Some GOP lawmakers were more accepting of Biden’s lead on Sunday, after he was projected the winner, while others leaned more into Trump’s narrative of voter fraud, championing legal challenges by his campaign, reported The Hill.Senator Mitt Romney of Utah is one of two Republican senators who congratulated the president-elect on his win on Saturday, although he said that Trump will ‘keep on fighting until the very end’.“You’re not gonna change the nature of President Trump in these last days, apparently, of his presidency,” Romney said. Moments after Biden was projected to be the winner of the US presidential elections, Trump refused to concede defeat, saying that the election was “far from over”, and promised legal challenges by his re-election campaign.Maryland Republican Governor Larry Hogan said on Sunday that though any potential evidence of widespread voter fraud should be released, but he doesn’t believe anything will overturn the projected election results.“There are legal processes if you think there are mistakes, but I don’t think we’re gonna see anything that’s gonna overturn this election,” The Hill quoted Hogan, who spoke to CNN’s “State of the Union.” Senator Pat Toomey also said that the news outlets were ‘probably correct’ to declare the winner of the election but stated that there was a reason why the count was done. Earlier, former President George W Bush also called Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris to congratulate him on his election victory, while also congratulating Trump for a hard-fought election.Read more | Donald Trump-to-Joe Biden handoff stalls as president rejects outcome“They [the people] have spoken, and their voices will continue to be heard through elected Republicans at every level of government,” Bush said. Trump’s campaign has filed several lawsuits to challenge the results in a few battleground states after the president spent months spreading unsubstantiated claims that mail-in ballots could open the election up to fraud, reported The Hill. On the other hand, Senator Roy Blunt did not acknowledge Biden’s victory, instead noting that it was time for the President to present the facts, referring to allegations of voter fraud by the President.“It’s time for the president’s lawyers to present the facts, and it’s time for those facts to speak for themselves,” Blunt told an American broadcast network.GOP South Dakota Governor Kristi Noem asserted that Biden’s win was the result of ‘illegal activities’.Noem insisted that ‘computer glitches’ and reports of ‘dead people voting in Pennsylvania’ were examples of widespread fraud, reported New York Times.“When you break the process on which we elect our leaders, you will break America forever,” she said.“Every legal challenge should be heard,” said Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the House minority leader. “Then and only then will America decide who won the race.”Likewise, Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina urged Mr. Trump to refuse to concede and fight on.“Do not accept the media’s declaration of Biden,” said Graham, on Fox News on Sunday morning. He called the election “contested” and urged: “Do not concede, Mr President. Fight hard.”Meanwhile, several Republican leaders and lawmakers, including Vice President Mike Pence, have refrained from making comments on Biden’s win, which has left Trump to battle against the election results without the full vocal support of his party behind him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/republicans-split-on-biden-s-election-win-as-trump-refuses-to-concede-defeat/story-5s2S0MrbYwbekyb2SCjUlM.html
09-11-2020||World||‘Look forward to working with you’: WHO chief congratulates Joe Biden, Kamala Harris||Director-General of the World Health Organisation (WHO) Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus on Sunday congratulated US President-elect Joe Biden and his running mate Kamala Harris on their victory in the presidential election.Also noting the importance of a joint fight against the Covid-19, he said the WHO would look forward to work with them.“Congratulations to President-elect @JoeBiden & Vice President-Elect @KamalaHarris! My @WHO colleagues and I look forward to working with you and your teams. Crises like the #COVID19 pandemic show the importance of global solidarity in protecting lives and livelihoods. Together!” Ghebreyesus said on Twitter.Earlier in the day, the Washington Post reported, citing informed sources that Biden plans to sign a number of executive orders after his inauguration, including the one on the reversal of the US withdrawal from WHO.Official results of the 2020 US presidential election are not out yet, but all major US media have already declared Biden the winner. While Biden claimed victory on Saturday, President Donald Trump has argued that the race was not over yet. Trump said the election was fraudulent and that his campaign was going to begin asserting its claim to victory in court.A number of world leaders have already congratulated Biden on the election victory. (ANI/Sputnik)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/look-forward-to-working-with-you-who-chief-congratulates-joe-biden-kamala-harris/story-L5qLIQiGVKLl4N0BoqjZ0I.html
09-11-2020||World||PM Imran Khan’s days are numbered, says Maryam Nawaz||Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) vice president Maryam Nawaz Sharif has said that Prime Minister Imran Khan’s days were numbered, and his ‘fake government’ is about to end. While addressing an election rally in Chilas, Maryam said that the ‘turncoats’ should also be shown the way home, the days of ‘fake rulers’ have been numbered and the last push would be made on November 15, reported Dunya News.She also alleged that rigging of votes was taking place even before the Gilgit-Baltistan elections, and that people should protect their votes and prevent them from being stolen.The PML-N vice president added that the people of Gilgit-Baltistan are as strong as the mountains of Himalayas, and the people here have always supported the party in good and bad times.She claimed that development projects and the roads that pass through the area have been built during the PML-N era, reported Dunya News.Pakistan had earlier announced that they will hold elections to the Gilgit Baltistan legislative assembly on November 15.The Imran Khan government had earlier announced granting provisional province status to the region, which was not received well by the people of Gilgit-Baltistan, who have protested against Islamabad’s decision of integrating the illegally occupied region with the rest of Pakistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pm-imran-khan-s-days-are-numbered-says-maryam-nawaz/story-HhNDZVkM9sOue9iOZqJcDP.html
09-11-2020||World||Joe Biden to work on H-1B visa plan||There will be much to cheer for Indians in the US if Joe Biden implements his action plan on citizenship, permanent residency and H-1B visas, used mainly by IT sector professionals from India.Biden will work towards providing a road map to American citizenship for nearly 11 million undocumented immigrants, including over 500,000 from India, and will also establish a minimum admission number of 95,000 refugees annually.As a largely immigrant community, but in some cases with American roots reaching back generations, Indian-Americans know firsthand the strength and resilience that immigrants bring to the United States of America, according to a policy document issued by the Biden campaign.Biden plans to increase H-1B visa limits and remove country quotas for green cards, or permanent residency.Both these measures, if implemented, are expected to benefit tens of thousands of Indian professionals impacted by some immigration policies of the outgoing Trump administration.With Kamala Harris as his deputy, Biden is expected to reverse the move of Trump administration to revoke work permits to the spouses of H-1B visas, which had adversely impacted a large number of Indian families in the US.All these are part of a comprehensive immigration reform that the Biden administration plans to work on, either at one go or in separate pieces.“High skilled temporary visas should not be used to disincentivise recruiting workers already in the US for in-demand occupations,” said the Biden campaign’s policy document.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-to-work-on-h-1b-visa-plan/story-vzwSjyYtirVikzbd57nYAO.html
09-11-2020||World||US becomes first nation to cross 10 million Covid-19 cases as third wave of infections surge||The United States became the first nation worldwide since the pandemic began to surpass 10 million coronavirus infections, according to a Reuters tally on Sunday, as the third wave of the Covid-19 virus surges across the nation.The grim milestone came on the same day as global coronavirus cases exceeded 50 million.The United states has reported about a million cases in the past 10 days, the highest rate of infections since the nation reported its first novel coronavirus case in Washington state 293 days ago.The country reported a record 131,420 Covid-19 cases on Saturday and has reported over 100,000 infections four times in the past seven days, according to a Reuters tally.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The US latest reported seven-day average of 105,600 daily cases, ramped up by at least 29%, is more than the combined average for India and France, two of the worst affected countries in Asia and Europe.More than 237,000 Americans have died of Covid-19 since the illness caused by the coronavirus first emerged in China late last year.The daily average of reported new deaths in the United States account for one in every 11 deaths reported worldwide each day, according to a Reuters analysis.The number of reported deaths nationwide climbed by more than 1,000 for a fifth consecutive day on Saturday, a trend last seen in mid-August, according to a Reuters tally.Health experts say deaths tend to increase four to six weeks after a surge in infections.U.S. President-elect Joe Biden, who spent much of his election campaign criticizing President Donald Trump’s handling of the pandemic, pledged on Saturday to make tackling the pandemic a top priority.Biden will announce a 12-member task force on Monday to deal with the pandemic that will be led by former surgeon general Vivek Murthy and former Food and Drug Administration commissioner David Kessler. The coronavirus task force will be charged with developing a blueprint for containing the disease once Biden takes office in January.The Midwest remains the hardest-hit region based on the most cases per capita with North Dakota, South Dakota, Wisconsin, Iowa and Nebraska the top five worst-affected US states.Illinois emerged as the new epicentre in the Midwest, with the state reporting over 60,000 COVID-19 infections in the last seven days, the highest in the country, according to Reuters data. The state reported more than 12,454 new cases on Saturday, the highest single-day number so far.Texas, which accounts for 10% of total US cases, is the hardest-hit state and became the first to surpass a million coronavirus cases in the United States on Saturday.According to a Reuters analysis, the South region comprises nearly 43% of all the cases in the United States since the pandemic began, with nearly 4.3 million cases in the region alone, followed by the Midwest, West and Northeast.New York, with over 33,000 fatalities, remains the state with highest number of deaths and accounts for about 14% of total US deaths.The United States performed about 10.5 million coronavirus tests in the first seven days of November, of which 6.22% came back positive, compared with 6.17% the prior seven-days, according to data from The COVID Tracking Project, a volunteer-run effort to track the outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-becomes-first-nation-to-cross-10-million-covid-19-cases-as-third-wave-of-infections-surge/story-7dcwo5GuLGvKEo2iwKKDkI.html
09-11-2020||World||US Election 2020: Joe Biden, Kamala Harris say it’s time to heal||US President-elect Joe Biden called for an end to the “grim era of demonisation” and reached out to disappointed supporters of President Donald Trump, asking them to “give each other a chance” in a victory speech aimed unmistakably at unifying a bitterly divided country, saying it was “time to heal”.The President-elect also said he will announce a team of Transition Advisers on Monday to make a blueprint out of his campaign’s Covid-19 plan that is ready for implementation from January 20, 2021, the day he is sworn in as president.Vice-President-elect Kamala Harris, who notched up a bunch of firsts as the first black woman and Indian-descent American elected to the high office, introduced Biden in a speech in which she spoke feelingly of her late mother Shyamala Gopalan Harris as the “woman most responsible for my presence here today”.“While I may be the first woman in this office, I will not be the last,” Harris said in her speech Saturday night.“...Now is when the real work begins. The hard work. The necessary work. The good work. The essential work to save lives and beat this pandemic. To rebuild our economy so it works for working people.To root out systemic racism in our justice system and society. To combat the climate crisis.To unite our country and heal the soul of our nation,” she said.Biden did not address Trump directly by name in his speech but did reach out to his supporters and voters. “To those who voted for President Trump, I understand your disappointment tonight. I’ve lost a couple of elections myself,” he said, adding: “But now, let’s give each other a chance. It’s time to put away the harsh rhetoric. To lower the temperature. To see each other again. To listen to each other again.To make progress, we must stop treating our opponents as our enemy. We are not enemies. We are Americans.” He returned to the theme of unity later in a clear sign of his priorities. “I ran as a proud Democrat. I will now be an American president. I will work as hard for those who didn’t vote for me — as those who did. Let this grim era of demonisation in America begin to end — here and now.”Biden, who is known for his ability to work across aisle, addressed himself to US Congress, which is a divided body. Democrats control the House of Representatives, although with a narrowed majority. Republicans control the Senate, but things could change because two seats will be settled in a January election. “The refusal of Democrats and Republicans to cooperate with one another is not due to some mysterious force beyond our control,” he said. “It’s a decision. It’s a choice we make. And if we can decide not to cooperate, then we can decide to cooperate. And I believe that this is part of the mandate from the American people. They want us to cooperate.” Biden and Harris spoke at a victory party in Wilmington, Delaware, amid honking of car horns — it was a drive-in rally — and much cheering. They were joined later by their spouses Jill Biden and Doug Emhoff, and their families — including Biden’s son Hunter Biden, who was targeted by the Trump campaign — for the ceremonial photo-ops, which were followed by fireworks. Biden clinched the race after winning Pennsylvania, the tipping-point state that had kept the nation and the world on edge as it took five days to count its votes, mainly the record high volumes of mailed ballots. Biden has won 290 electoral college votes — needed 270 to win — to Trump’s 214. But these numbers will change as the remaining states wrap up their counting — Arizona, Alaska, Nevada, Georgia and North Carolina. Biden won a record 74 million votes, which is the highest number of votes won by any American presidential nominee. Trump, with 70 million, is second. These numbers will also change as remaining votes from the record turnout of 160 million are counted.Biden’s victory speech would have followed a concession speech or a call from the losing candidate, as is the practice. But President Trump has not only refused to concede the election but has accused the President-elect of “rushing to falsely pose as the winner”.Wisconsin and Georgia were headed for recounts, but Trump’s lawsuits, and those filed by Republican allies have modest to no impact thus far. Undeterred, the campaign filed another one on Saturday in Arizona, hours after Biden was declared winner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-election-2020-joe-biden-kamala-harris-say-it-s-time-to-heal/story-qfOkJaB9r3VN0R6kt7RxkO.html
09-11-2020||World||Joe Biden’s India connection runs deep||President-elect Joe Biden uses every opportunity before an India related audience to tell them of his “great, great, great, great, great grandfather,” Captain George Biden, who was a captain in the East India Company, retired in India and had an Indian wife. He first spoke of this ancestor when, as US vice-president, he addressed the Bombay Stock Exchange in July 2013. He told the audience that when he was first elected a senator in 1972, “I received a letter from a gentleman named Biden… from Mumbai asserting that we were related.” The letter suggested “that our mutual, great, great, great, something or other, worked for the East India Trading Company back in the 1700s and came to Mumbai.” Biden joked to the audience, “If that’s true, I might run here in India for office. I might be qualified.” A few years later, in another speech, Biden expanded on this, saying the “Biden from Mumbai” claimed descent from a “British captain in the East India Tea Company. And he married, I believe, an Indian woman. And he settled in India”. He said a journalist had given him a list of five Bidens who lived in Mumbai. “I haven’t actually followed up and embarrassed the Bidens in Mumbai.”The King’s College historian and ex-diplomat Tim Willasey-Wilsey, in an essay for Gateway House in August, wrote “there are no records” of a George Biden. But he did find records of two Biden brothers who captained ships for John Company. They started out as third and fourth mates on ships running from Britain to India. William Henry Biden went on to captain a few ships before dying of stroke in Rangoon in 1843. His brother, Christopher Biden, captained his first ship in 1821 and made five return journeys between Britain and Calcutta. Each voyage was arduous but profitable and took a year to complete. In 1830, at the age of 41, he retired and settled near London and wrote a book about naval discipline.(With inputs from Agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-s-india-connection-runs-deep/story-6BzUPUdpQFTZCyCJqaju8I.html
09-11-2020||India||Approaching Diwali lights up shopkeepers’ spirits!||With Diwali just a few days away, traditional markets are reporting decent sales; and sellers are a happy lot. The shopkeepers are expecting the sales to further pick up in the next few days. Rajan Pahuja, who runs Right Choice store in Gomti Nagar, explained, “I won’t say customers are flooding in but yes the turnout is not bad. At times, we have to make people wait outside but that is to maintain social distancing. In business terms, the sale output is low if I compare with previous years. The main reason for that is customers are looking for need-based items.”Buyers are not splurging as they used to during the festival. Sellers of decorative items are in a fix. “Decorative items don’t come in compulsive buying. Customers are spending on Diwali dresses, lights, household items like bed-sheets and kitchenware, but our items like artificial flowers and decorative pieces are not on everyone’s list. Our permanent customers who used to buy bags full of items have largely not turned up and those who do, are buying fewer items,” said a seller at Pratap market in Aminabad.Prabhu Jalan of Geeta Vastralaya said that customers have become very unpredictable. “I am not able to understand buyers. They demand items that we don’t have and when we procure them there are no buyers for those particular items. Thankfully, the sales are much better and we hope that the trend grows as we have a big staff to look after,” he said.The rise in Covid-19 cases in the country has also deterred customers from moving out. “We understand that people are buying e-commerce platforms but there are also those who want to come, feel and buy. That has been our strength in this era of e-commerce but due to Coronavirus people are avoiding busy markets,” he said.Right after Diwali begins the marriage season, and that is the reason for improved sales according to Prem Rastogi of Ghara Bhandar. “More than Diwali, I will say the big support has been the upcoming marriage season. Business at our traditional store in Aminabad and other localities has been satisfactory. During the pandemic we could have not asked for more,” he added.With markets such as Aminabad, Chowk, Alambagh, Aliganj, Indira Nagar and Gomti Nagar already witnessing crowds returning, the business is expected to rise in the coming days. “Dar to hai par khatra dono ore hai – ya to bhooke maro ya carona se – koi option nahin hai (Of course, there is fear, but it is dangerous either way: we may die of hunger or due to Coronavirus)!” said a roadside vendor selling mouth fresheners in Aminabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/approaching-diwali-lights-up-shopkeepers-spirits/story-FWKaO4E3Bp4z21L6GOrW8L.html
09-11-2020||India||PM Modi to join SCO summit with China and Pakistan leaders amid border standoff||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Tuesday join the heads of state of China and Pakistan at the virtual summit of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO), which is expected to set the agenda for the body for the coming year. This is the first time that the annual meeting of the SCO heads of state is being held virtually because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Russia, the current chair of SCO, has organised most of the grouping’s meetings virtually this year, except for the meetings of foreign ministers and defence ministers that were held in Moscow in September. The SCO Summit, being held against the backdrop of the India-China border standoff, is among five virtual meetings this month that will be joined by the top leadership of the two countries. President Vladimir Putin will chair Tuesday’s virtual meeting and the heads of state of the eight SCO members – Russia, China, India, Pakistan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan – will speak for 10 minutes. The heads of state of four observer countries – Iran, Afghanistan, Belarus and Mongolia – will join the meet, and the SCO secretary general and executive director of the SCO’s Regional Anti-Terrorist Structure (RATS) will also address the gathering. Also Read: India takes big step to normalise Nepal ties, skeds foreign secy visitThe SCO Summit is the grouping’s main body that sets the agenda and main directions for the next year. The meeting is expected to focus on all the main areas of activity, including politics, security, trade and economy, and it will conclude with the adoption of the Moscow Declaration containing the joint position of the members on global and regional issues. There will also be statements on issues such as digital economy, Covid-19, countering terrorism, including on the internet, and countering drug trafficking. The summit is also expected to make decisions on major projects and trade and economic initiatives. Also Read: Promote ‘local for Diwali’ to give new life to economy, says PM Narendra ModiModi, who has led the Indian delegation to the annual summit since India became a full member of SCO in 2017, had outlined his vision with the acronym HEALTH – covering healthcare cooperation, economic cooperation, alternative energy, literature and culture, terrorism-free society and humanitarian cooperation – at last year’s summit in Bishkek.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-join-sco-summit-with-china-and-pakistan-leaders-amid-border-standoff/story-LVoDASvO3HTbTJrFnmcp0I.html
09-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: India, Maldives sign 4 pacts including $100M grant for key connectivity project and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan TimesIndia, Maldives sign 4 pacts including $100M grant for key connectivity projectIndia and the Maldives on Monday signed four agreements, including one for a $100-million grant for a connectivity project, as visiting foreign secretary Harsh Shringla and the Maldivian leadership discussed ways to boost economic recovery amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Read moreCovid-19 vaccine 90% effective in Phase 3 trial, says US pharma giant PfizerThe vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which is being developed by US pharmaceutical giant Pfizer and German biotech firm BioNTech, is 90% effective in preventing infections in the ongoing Phase 3 trials, Pfizer announced on Monday. Read moreIndia takes big step to normalise Nepal ties, skeds foreign secy visitForeign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla will travel to Kathmandu later this month for formal dialogue between the two countries, a sign that New Delhi is willing to go an extra mile to improve bilateral ties that had nosedived earlier this year, people familiar with the matter said. Read moreRohit Sharma included in India Test squad for Australia tour, BCCI announces revised ODI, T20I teamsRohit Sharma was included in the India Test squad for Australia tour but the senior India selection committee and BCCI medical team after consulting the opener decided to rest him from the ODI and T20I series in Australia. Read moreKangana Ranaut demands Arnab Goswami’s release, attacks Maharashtra govt: ‘I had one house, even that was demolished’Actor Kangana Ranaut has again attacked the Maharashtra government, as she demanded the release of journalist Arnab Goswami. The news anchor is in judicial custody in a 2018 abetment to suicide case. Read moreApple’s One More Thing event is happening tomorrow: How to watch and what to expectJust a few days after launching the iPhones globally on October 13, Apple sent out invites for another Apple Event scheduled for November 10. Read moreMonday motivation: Kriti Sanon gives a hilarious explanation for nailing Yoga pose Viparita ShalabhasanaCome Monday and our social media feeds are flooded with Bollywood celebrities’ motivating workout sessions but we love Kriti Sanon for doing so with a tinge of humour. Read moreWatch: Day before Bihar verdict, Tejashwi Yadav celebrates 31st birthdayRJD leader Tejashwi Yadav celebrated his 31st birthday, a day before the crucial verdict in Bihar. The young leader celebrated the day with his family members.  Read morePunjab-born Nobel Laureate Har Gobind Khorana gets special dedication on death anniversary. Check out his impressive journeyThe Nobel Prize Organization shared a post dedicated to “an icon of molecular biology” aka, Har Gobind Khorana who passed away on today’s date, November 9, in 2011. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-india-maldives-sign-4-pacts-including-100m-grant-for-key-connectivity-project-and-all-the-latest-news/story-z3TGzoXnABX4nYWFEsP3kI.html
09-11-2020||India||MP by-poll results to decide fate of 7-month-old BJP govt and its 12 ministers||While the exit polls predict an edge to the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the Congress in by-polls held in 28 legislative assembly constituencies, the counting of votes on Tuesday will decide the fate of the 7-month-old BJP government and also of 12 of its ministers whose existence in Shivraj Singh Chouhan cabinet, if BJP retains power, depends on their winning the by-polls. The by-polls results assume much significance for two ex-ministers too- Govind Singh Rajput and Tulsi Silavat, who filed their nomination papers as ministers but had to exit the cabinet on October 20 during the election campaign as per the constitutional provision that debars a person from holding a minister’s post for more than six months without being a member in the legislative assembly. All these ministers and ex-ministers were among the 22 Congress MLAs, all loyalists of senior BJP leader and Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia, who resigned from the state assembly on March 10 this year, leading to the fall of the then Congress government and BJP regaining power after a gap of 15 months. Three more Congress MLAs resigned in July from the state assembly.All these ex-MLAs joined the BJP and got the party tickets to contest the by-polls from their respective constituencies. The ministers whose fate hangs in the balance include cabinet ministers Mahendra Singh Sisodia, Aidal Singh Kansana, Pradyumn Singh Tomar, Imrati Devi, Prabhuram Chaudhary, Bisahu Lal Singh, Rajvardhan Singh and Hardeep Singh Dang; and ministers of state Girraj Dandotia, OPS Bhadoria, Suresh Dhakad and Brijendra Yadav. They were inducted in the state cabinet on July 2. As per the chief electoral officer’s office in Madhya Pradesh, counting of votes will begin at 8 am at 19 district headquarters which witnessed the by-polls, necessitated by the resignations of 25 Congress MLAs from the state assembly and due to the demise of three sitting MLAs. Of the 28 seats, Congress had won 27 in the 2018 assembly elections. Chouhan government with 107 MLAs in the state assembly needs to win a minimum of 8 seats in the state assembly to retain power without any outside support and reach the majority mark of 115 in the 230-member state assembly which has one vacant seat, whereas Congress with 87 MLAs needs to win all the 28 seats to get to the half-way mark and regain power on its own. Also Read: Madhya Pradesh bypolls: CM Chouhan accuses Kamal Nath of trying to lure BJP MLAsHowever, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), which has two MLAs and the Samajwadi Party (SP), with its lone MLA in the state assembly, are eyeing the prospects of a hung assembly to play the role of kingmaker as these parties did in 2018 when Congress fell short of the majority mark by two seats and had to seek support from non-BJP and independent MLAs to form the government which lasted for 15 months. There are four independents, two BSP and one SP MLAs in the House. The BSP in particular enjoys a significant presence in Gwalior-Chambal region which has 16 of these 28 seats that voted in the by-polls. Though the BSP won just one seat in Gwalior-Chambal region in 2018 assembly elections, its presence led to a triangular contest on many of the seats. Of the 16 seats in the region, BSP had finished second on three seats and came third on 11 seats in 2018. Also Read: Bihar Assembly Election 2020: Counting of votes to begin at 8am tomorrow, early trends likely by 10am. Full schedule hereWhile BSP fielded its candidates on all the 28 seats, SP contested on 14 seats during the by-polls, but two of the SP candidates joined the rival parties- Congress and BJP during the election campaign. On the eve of counting, state Congress president Kamal Nath exuded confidence of winning the by-polls and forming the government in the state by dislodging the BJP from power.“The by-polls results are about to come. This election was of people, which was fought by the people and the victory too will be of people and truth. Congress will sweep the by-polls to form its democratic government elected by people once again and a government formed with manipulations will be brought down,” Nath said in a tweet. Also Read: BJP rigged UP assembly by-polls alleges Akhilesh, promises ‘proof’ after resultsHowever, state BJP president Vishnu Dutt Sharma said, “The BJP is going to achieve a massive victory. This is reflected in absurd statements from Congress leaders who are levelling baseless allegations against the BJP.” State BSP president Ramakant Pippal, however, said, “We see a hung assembly despite all the manipulations by the ruling BJP and the Opposition Congress against the BSP during the polling. In that scenario our party president Behan Mayawati will take a decision on our support to any party on formation of the new government.” Samajwadi Party state spokesperson Yash Bharatiya said, “We believe we can win two to three seats easily and if there is a hung assembly, then our party’s national president Akhilesh Yadav will take a decision on the issue of support.” The by-polls were preceded by a bitter election campaign and personal attacks by BJP and Congress leaders against each other, which led to Election Commission snatching the star campaigner status from state Congress president Kamal Nath over his “Kya item hai ye” remark that he made against BJP candidate and woman and child development minister Imrati Devi. The Supreme Court later granted stay on execution of the Commission’s order but till then the campaign was over. The commission also debarred higher education minister Mohan Yadav and women development minister Imrati Devi from holding and addressing any public meeting for a day. Similarly, it warned BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya and BJP candidate from Anuppur constituency, Bisahulal Singh, while it issued notices to BJP candidate Girraj Dandotia, BJP MLA Usha Thakur and Congress leaders Sajjan Singh Verma and Acharya Pramod Krishnan on complaints that they used objectionable remarks during their election meetings. It was during the campaign that MP high court, Gwalior bench, in its interim order dated October 20 expressed its displeasure over the conduct of politicians in context of Covid situation in the state and banned physical public meetings subject to the availability of virtual campaign in nine districts under its jurisdiction, which included eight districts in Gwalior-Chambal region. The Supreme Court later granted stay on the execution of the order. Through its earlier interim order, the high court ordered lodging of FIR against union minister Narendra Singh Tomar and state Congress president Kamal Nath for violations of Covid-19 protocol. 70.27% polling was registered in the 28 assembly constituencies. The polling was marred by violence in certain pockets of Chambal division in particular, resulting in bullet injuries to at least three persons. In the 2018 assembly elections, these 28 seats had registered 73.39% polling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-by-poll-results-to-decide-fate-of-7-month-old-bjp-govt-and-its-12-ministers/story-nHEevS0fZ8s5fnmKEWxNsO.html
09-11-2020||India||BJP rigged UP assembly by-polls alleges Akhilesh, promises ‘proof’ after results||A day before the announcement of the results for by-polls to seven assembly constituencies in Uttar Pradesh, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Monday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of rigging the elections in its favour.“We have proof, including some videos and will provide details after the results (on Tuesday),” Akhilesh Yadav said at a press conference convened to announce the induction of over half-a-dozen former legislators from Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and Congress into the SP.Akhilesh said that the exit polls for Bihar assembly election results predicting an edge for the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD)-led opposition alliance over the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) would turn out to be correct and that the tenure of “those who spread hatred” was ending.Even abroad, those who wanted to rule by dividing the society were ousted by the people, he said, hinting at the outcome of the US presidential elections.Attacking the BJP government at the Centre and in the state, Akhilesh said: “Some journalists there (in the US) reported that President Trump had lied 22,000 times. If we add up all the lies of the PM and the UP CM then it would exceed one lakh.”UP BJP vice-president Vijay Bahadur Pathak responded to the allegations by demanding proof.“He lost patience so soon. Anyway, if he had proof, then why did he not come up with it soon after the elections? Why wait for so many days after the polls? It’s simple — if his party gains, they will give credit to themselves, on losing they would cry foul,” Pathak alleged.Also Read: Ayodhya gearing up for fourth Deepotsav celebrationsAkhilesh also used the opportunity to hit out at the Centre over demonetisation.“Those who had no black money suffered the most and those with black money fled the country. The BJP is solely responsible for the country’s derailed economy. Youth, poor, farmers, traders and businesses, all were ruined. Only the BJP benefited (from demonetisation) by winning the UP assembly polls soon afterwards,” said the SP chief.He also sought to know the status of Purvanchal Expressway.Also Read: Air quality deteriorating, UP to comply with NGT orders on firecrackers“The BJP doesn’t make people’s Diwali, it makes people diwala (bankrupt). Where is the Purvanchal Expressway that the CM had promised would be gifted to the people on Diwali?,” he asked.The prominent BSP leaders who joined the SP include former Chandauli MP Kailash Nath Yadav and former Obra (Sonbhadra) MLA Sunil Kumar Patel. Those from the Congress included former Mirzapur MP Bal Kumar Patel, former Sitapur MP Kaiser Jehan, former Patti (Pratapgarh) MLA Ram Singh Patel, and former Hargaon (Sitapur) MLA Ramesh Rahi. A smaller political party, Sarvashrestha Dal, merged itself with the SP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-rigged-up-assembly-by-polls-alleges-akhilesh-promises-proof-after-results/story-rXPY99nEW97DUgTSlkFJtK.html
09-11-2020||India||‘Winters, festivities may upend gains made against Covid-19,’ says Harsh Vardhan||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan reviewed on Monday the Covid-19 situation in nine states, including West Bengal, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala, and expressed concern that the winters and the festive season could potentially threaten the gains made against the viral infection.Interacting with the state health ministers and principal secretaries or additional chief secretaries of Andhra Pradesh, Assam, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Telangana, Punjab, Haryana and Kerala, he stressed that India has the highest recovery rate and one of the lowest fatality rate, globally.Vardhan informed the meeting that of the total active cases in the country, only 0.44 per cent were on ventilator support, 2.47 per cent in ICU and just 4.13 per cent occupied oxygen-supported beds, according to a Health Ministry statement.He, however, said the nine states and some districts there have been reporting a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, high average daily cases on a weekly average, decline in testing, high rate of mortality within the first 24 or 48 or 72 hours of hospitalisation, high doubling rate and higher death among the vulnerable population.Vardhan said the trajectory of the disease was being monitored personally by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “The prime minister has held intense discussions with all chief ministers and Head of UTs. His latest address was only of 10 minutes but had the important message of continued adherence to covid-appropriate behaviour and its transformation to a Jan Andolan (people’s movement).” Sharing the nation’s journey in the fight against the pandemic, he said the number of laboratories increased from one in January to 2,074 now and the testing capacity has increased to 1.5 million daily.The Union health minister also spoke about the increased number of general, oxygenated and ICU beds at each level of covid care hierarchy.Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan requested all States to focus on 10 key areas to contain the infecton and gain an upper hand over its trajectory.These are increasing testing, targeted testing at market-places, workplaces, religious congregations which could have the potential to become super-spreaders, increasing the share of RT-PCR in testing, compulsory testing of symptomatic RAT negatives, completion of contact tracing within the first 72 hours, tracing of an average of 10-15 contacts per new case detected.National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) Director Sujeet K Singh apprised everybody on the trajectory of the coronavirus disease and the public health response efforts in the states.The State Health Ministers shared a brief snapshot of the actions taken for containment, surveillance and treatment of Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/winters-festivities-may-upend-gains-made-against-covid-19-says-harsh-vardhan/story-BKNvw2DWjAkCMXxTKA01nN.html
09-11-2020||India||India, Maldives sign 4 pacts including $100M grant for key connectivity project||India and the Maldives on Monday signed four agreements, including one for a $100-million grant for a connectivity project, as visiting foreign secretary Harsh Shringla and the Maldivian leadership discussed ways to boost economic recovery amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Shringla is on a two-day visit to the Indian Ocean archipelago as part of New Delhi’s outreach to key countries in the neighbourhood and beyond. The Maldives is the sixth country he has visited in the aftermath of pandemic-related travel restrictions, the others being Bangladesh, Myanmar, France, Germany and the UK. One of four memorandums of understanding (MoUs) signed by the two sides was for the grant of $100 million by India for the $500-million Greater Male Connectivity Project (GMCP) that will link capital Male with three islands. India will also provide a $400-million line of credit for the project, the largest such infrastructure venture undertaken in the Maldives. The other MoUs were for setting up soil and plant testing laboratories through a grant of 1.71 million Maldivian rufiyaas, establishing a drug detox facility through a grant of 7.7 million Maldivian rufiyaas and cooperation in sports and youth affairs. The GMCP, “an economic lifeline connecting Male with Villingili, the new commercial port at Gulhifalhu and industrial zone at Thilafushi” will “conform to the hallmarks of Indian development cooperation – transparency, full participation and ownership of the host country, and competitive pricing”, Shringla said while speaking at the foreign ministry in Male. “We deeply appreciate the government of President [Ibrahim] Solih for its ‘India First’ foreign policy. This is reciprocated in full measure by our ‘Neighbourhood First’ policy in which the Maldives enjoys a very special and central place,” he said. Talks between Shringla and his Maldivian counterpart Abdul Ghafoor Mohamed focused on economic recovery. They emphasised “resilience efforts to curb the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic, including boosting tourism, accelerating the implementation of the ongoing development cooperation projects across the Maldives, and the means of elevating connectivity and bilateral trade”, according to a statement from the Maldives’ foreign ministry. Also Read: On Kartarpur anniversary, Pak says India yet to reopen its side of corridorIndia has unveiled a slew of measures to boost economic recovery in the Maldives, where the tourism industry has been hit hard by the pandemic. In September, India provided a soft loan of $250 million as budgetary support. The two sides also launched a cargo ferry service to cut transportation costs. Shringla began his visit with a meeting with President Solih, seen as one of India’s strongest allies in the neighbourhood. The two sides discussed ways to enhance regional trade and connectivity, economic cooperation, tourism and overcoming the pandemic. Solih thanked the Indian government for agreeing to implement an air bubble between the two sides and noted that increasing numbers of Indian tourists had visited the Maldives since it reopened its borders. Also Read: India, Nepal ties get back on track. Foreign Secy heads to Kathmandu on Nov 26Solih thanked India for backing development projects through a line of credit agreements, including the GMCP, Gulhifalhu port project, water and sewerage projects on 34 islands and a cancer hospital. Shringla also met Speaker Mohamed Nasheed and defence minister Mariya Didi, whom he assured of India’s “continued assistance to safeguard our shared interests in the Indian Ocean”, according to a tweet from the Indian high commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-maldives-sign-4-pacts-including-100m-grant-for-key-connectivity-project/story-xWzjTgJzxwRCbAt9S7pQEI.html
09-11-2020||India||BJP’s Tejasvi Surya gives privilege notice to LS speaker against top Bengal police officials||Hitting out at Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee over the violence during a BJP rally in West Bengal, the party’s youth wing president Tejasvi Surya on Monday said he has given a privilege notice to the Lok Sabha speaker against the state administration’s top brass, including the police commissioners of Kolkata and Howrah.Surya, who represents South Bengaluru in the Lower House of Parliament, was referring to the clashes between BJP workers and police during protests in the two West Bengal cities on October 8.“The Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief’s fascist government in West Bengal is like a terrorist” handling its goons,” he told a press conference at the BJP’s headquarters here.Parts of Kolkata and adjoining Howrah resembled a battle zone on October 8 as BJP workers and supporters clashed with police, hurling stones and blocking roads with burning tyres, to protest a string of killings of saffron party workers.The BJP Yuva Morcha (BJYM) president alleged that chemicals mixed with water was sprayed on BJP workers and TMC “goons” were throwing bombs from terraces.“Mamata ji cannot digest this reality and is thus resorting to violence and political murders as a tool to silence the BJP. In the last one and a half years, over 120 workers of the BJP have been brutally killed and politically murdered,” Surya said.“Mamata’s administration in West Bengal is similar to North Korea’s autocratic regime,” he said.Surya alleged that police stations in West Bengal function as “branch offices” of the TMC and officers are “puppets” in the hands of the TMC government.The BJP MP said that he has given a privilege notice against top police officials of West Bengal, including the Kolkata and the Howrah police commissioners, to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla.Chief Minister Banerjee is aware that the ground beneath her feet is slipping very fast, Surya said.The coming government in Bengal will be a BJP government, he said and added that senior BJP leader and Union Home Minister Amit Shah has made this explicitly clear. West Bengal assembly elections are slated to take place next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-s-tejasvi-surya-gives-privilege-notice-to-ls-speaker-against-top-bengal-police-officials/story-dKS1E6Y2ajOBH4J4msUX3K.html
09-11-2020||India||India takes big step to normalise Nepal ties, skeds foreign secy visit||Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla will travel to Kathmandu later this month for formal dialogue between the two countries, a sign that New Delhi is willing to go an extra mile to improve bilateral ties that had nosedived earlier this year, people familiar with the matter said.The decision to send the foreign secretary comes days after Army Chief General MM Naravane was conferred the honorary rank of general of Nepali Army. Gen Naravane had met Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli on this visit who had underscored that the two countries could resolve all problems between them through dialogue since India and Nepal have a long-standing special relationship.KP Sharma Oli had faced resistance within his cabinet to Gen Naravane’s visit but had dealt with it, withdrawing the defence portfolio from deputy prime minister Ishwar Pokhrel.Gen Naravane’s visit was considered crucial, particularly given that he was the first one within the Indian government to react to protests by Nepal’s government over a border road built in Uttarakhand. It was very possible that Nepal had raised the issue at someone else’s behest, he said in May, a remark that was interpreted to imply that Beijing could have prodded Nepal to create a new boundary dispute.It is not clear if PM Oli directly broached the topic when General Naravane called on him last week. But PM Oli did make his point.People familiar with the discussions said KP Sharma Oli, who also holds the defence portfolio after shunting out Pokhrel, did make a pointed reference to the fallout of the row over Nepal’s political map, describing it as a “misunderstanding”. At the same time, he did underline that Nepal takes its sovereignty very seriously, a remark that is being seen in New Delhi to explain his decision to issue a fresh political map.During the two days - November 26 and 27 - that Shringla spends in Kathmandu, he is already scheduled to hold meetings with his counterpart Bharat Raj Paudyal who took charge just last month and foreign minister Pradeep Kumar Gyawali. The career diplomat will also meet President Bidhya Devi Bhandari and Prime Minister Oli during his visit.Shringla’s conversations in Nepal are also expected to lead both sides to finalise the schedule for the meeting of the Joint Technical Level Boundary Committee.Officials stressed that the boundary issue was going to be only one aspect of the visit. “This is not a single-agenda visit,” a senior diplomat said, pointing that the visit could see India committing to help Nepal with coronavirus vaccines once its production starts. Also, the two sides will discuss the revival of the Pancheshwar multi-purpose project on river Mahakali as well as other hydro-electric projects.India had been holding off on Harsh Shringla’s visit for most of this year to convey New Delhi’s displeasure over the communist government’s move to issue a new political map that included a slice of land including the Limpiyadhura, Lipulekh and Kalapani areas to the west of Nepal. New Delhi had rejected the map, brushing away what it had said was Nepal’s effort at a cartographic expansion.Nepal had been working at mollifying New Delhi for some time and had withdrawn school textbooks that contained the new political map. Last month, Research and Analysis Wing chief Samant Kumar Goel had done the groundwork for restoring ties during his quiet visit to Nepal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-nepal-ties-get-back-on-track-foreign-secy-heads-to-kathmandu-on-nov-26/story-J6PVm30Gr8xl7bt36NSHNN.html
09-11-2020||India||Air quality deteriorating, UP to comply with NGT orders on firecrackers||Uttar Pradesh (UP) is going to comply with the orders of National Green Tribunal (NGT) regarding firecrackers on Diwali, state’s additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi said on Monday. “The NGT order is a detailed one.The air quality is deteriorating and steps have to be taken to address the issue,” he said. He also said”green crackers” would be sold and promoted. While Meerut has imposed a ban on firecrackers, Lucknow has banned certain categories of firecrackers. Agra additional magistrate Ajay Tiwari confirmed that bursting of firecrackers will not be allowed.“Instructions have already been issued to all police stations to initiate strong action against storage of firecrackers or their bursting,” he said. “We are awaiting government orders but till then, no fresh license for sale of firecrackers is being issued. All renewals too are on hold and so is the practice of issuing temporary license,” said Agra district magistrate Prabhu Nath Singh.Among the firecrackers banned in Lucknow are the most preferred ‘ladis’ or ‘chatai’ (cracker series) and similar high decibel crackers. “Sale of only those crackers that are in compliance with the Supreme Court order would be allowed,” said Naveen Arora, joint commissioner of police (JCP), Law and Order (LO), Police Commissionarate Lucknow. Also, the Lucknow district administration has defined a time slot for Diwali and other festivals, including Gurupurab and Christmas, when firecrackers can be burst. “On festivals like Diwali and Gurupurab, fireworks would be allowed only between 8pm and 10pm. On Christmas and New Year’s Eve, fireworks may start from 11.55pm and go on till 12.30am, the guidelines said. In addition, the district administration has defined ‘No Cracker Zones’ in the city, including hospital, nursing homes, educational institutes, court and zoological gardens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-quality-deteriorating-up-to-comply-with-ngt-orders-on-firecrackers-says-chief-secretary/story-il3AejIMfdnoPQEDqTVwZK.html
09-11-2020||India||Delhi: 50% jump in home isolation cases in 2 weeks; containment zones count up by 32%||As the national capital reels under the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, the number of patients under home isolation in Delhi has mounted to 24,723, a rise of 50 per cent in the last two weeks, while the containment zones count has expanded by over 32 per cent in the same period.Coronavirus cases have spiralled since October 28 when 5673 fresh cases were recorded and on November 8, the daily infection tally was 7745, the highest single-day spike here till date. In this period, a staggering over 74,000 new cases have been reported.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe number of home isolation cases on October 26 stood at 16,396 and the containment zones count that day was 2930, according to official data.On October 28, the number of fresh cases breached the 5000-mark for the first time and the home quarantined cases rose to 16,822.With the third wave of the pandemic hitting the national capital, daily cases surged and containment zones count kept mounting, standing at 3878 on Sunday.The positivity rate which stood at 8.23 per cent on October 26 spiralled to 15.26 per cent on Sunday.The number of home isolation cases on Sunday stood at 24,723, an increase of over 50 per cent since October 26.Experts have flagged that crowding due to festive season and rise in pollution level and laxity in adhering to Covid-19 safety norms, among other factors, have caused the massive surge in daily cases in the last several days.So, rise in home isolation cases is a direct result of that, they said.The count of home quarantined cases on October 19 was 14,164 which fell marginally on October 20 to 14,046. However, since then, these cases showed an upward trend, and on October 31 the figures stood at 20,093, according to official data.In this period, the number of containment zones also got expanded from 2724 on October 21 to 3274 on October 31.Over 7,000 daily fresh cases have been recorded on two days in November, over 6,000 daily cases four times, and more than 75 fatalities were recorded on both Saturday and Sunday, the highest in over four months.From October 28-31, over 5,000 cases were reported in the city, every day.Seventy-seven new fatalities were recorded on Sunday, pushing the death toll in the national capital to 6,989. On Saturday, 79 fatalities were reported from Covid-19.The active cases tally which had crossed 40,000-mark on November 7, on Sunday stood at 41,857, as per official data.The Sunday health bulletin said that the total number of cases has climbed to 4,38,529.The bulletin also said that 3,89,683 patients have recovered, been discharged or migrated so far, putting the recovery rate at around 89 per cent.Due to this massive surge in cases, the number of beds, including ICU beds with ventilators facilities are shrinking fast in hospitals.The Delhi government on Friday had issued orders to augment the capacity of beds for Covid-19 patients by adding in total over 1100 beds at various state-run and private facilities to “combat the third wave” of spread of infection.According to the Friday bulletin, out of the total number of 15,781 beds in Covid hospitals, 8253 were vacant.The Sunday bulletin said, out of the total number of 16,027 beds in Covid hospitals, 7955 were vacant.According to doctors, people, especially those with respiratory illnesses, should try to stay indoors as much as possible and treat the situation as a major health emergency and not become complacent about it, since lockdown has been erased to reboot the economy.“We would advise patients with respiratory illnesses to stay indoor as much as possible. Also, appeal to youth to not assume everything is normal again just because the economy is getting eased. Mask should be worn all time while being outdoors, and social distancing norms should be followed,” said a senior doctor of a government hospital.  After showing a gradual decline since September 22, except on two days, the number of patients under home quarantine, had again risen on October 1, the count being 15,899.On September 21, the number of home isolation cases had increased to 19,213 after steady ascent in its count since the last week of August.However, it fell by a margin of 749 on September 22 to 18,464, registering a significant fall after a long time.It fell further down to 17,834 the next day when the the number of containment zones stood at 1987. The containment zone count had crossed the 2000-mark on September 24 (2059) and the 3000-mark on October 27 (3032), when the the home isolation cases on corresponding days stood at 17,995 and 16,415 respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-50-jump-in-home-isolation-cases-in-2-weeks-containment-zones-count-up-by-32/story-Rq7DUq4MktqtUPmu0njXyJ.html
09-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Peoples’ Conference asks for early hearing of petitions challenging abrogation of Article 370 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan TimesPeoples’ Conference asks for early hearing of petitions challenging abrogation of Article 370Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) Peoples Conference, which is part of People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), on Monday sought the early hearing of the petitions challenging the abrogation of Article 370 and J&K Reorganisation Act in the supreme court. Read moreBombay HC refuses interim bail to Arnab Goswami in 2018 abetment to suicide caseThe Bombay high court on Monday rejected Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami’s application for bail in a 2018 abetment to suicide case. Read moreBihar assembly election 2020: Election Commission increases vote-counting stations to ensure social distancingAs the counting of votes in Bihar is set to take place on Tuesday, the number of stations has been increased in order to maintain social distancing amid the coronavirus pandemic, Bihar’s chief election commissioner HR Srinivasa said on Monday. Read moreBCCI grants paternity leave to Virat Kohli, India captain to return from Australia tour after first TestThe BCCI on Monday confirmed that it has granted paternity to Indian captain Virat Kohli, who will return from Australia after the first Test. Read moreVehicle registration in Oct less than same month of 2019. Here’s possibly whyThe Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations (FADA) on Monday informed that vehicle registration in the month of October had continued to increase month-on-month but that the figures when compared to the same month of 2019 reflect a very noticeable fall. Read moreAmit Sadh on shooting at a height of 12,000 feet at zero degree: It was beyond challengingAfter back to back releases on various web platforms, actor Amit Sadh has returned to work, and this time around, it’s not just the Covid pandemic restrictions he has in front of him. Read moreMallika Sherawat’s 2009 tweet about meeting Kamala Harris goes viral againThe Internet has been abuzz after the historic win of Joe Biden and Kamala Harris in the US Presidential election this year. Read more‘I don’t like crime dramas with guns and gaalis’: Pankaj TripathiPankaj Tripathi may play gangsters of all hues but the actor’s personal choice is the exact opposite. The actor, who will be seen playing a gangster in the upcoming Anurag Basu film Ludo, says he prefers slice-of-life dramas with everyday conflicts. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-peoples-conference-asks-for-early-hearing-of-petitions-challenging-abrogation-of-article-370-and-all-the-latest-news/story-NsT8fsWwZrEighMR5iyKtL.html
09-11-2020||India||BJP member sworn in as MLA in Manipur after HC rejects Cong member’s election||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate Mayanglangbam Rameshwar who secured second place in 2017 assembly elections was sworn in as a member of Manipur Legislative Assembly on Monday after the high court last week declared the election of Congress candidate Y Surchandra null and void.Manipur Assembly Speaker Yumnam Khemchand Singh administered the oath of office in secrecy to the new MLA at his office chamber of Manipur Legislative Assembly premises in Imphal in the presence of Chief Minister N Biren Singh and his ministers, MLAs besides MPs. Forty eight year old Rameshwar took oath after he was named as the elected member of Kakching Assembly Constituency. On Thursday (November 5) , a single bench of High Court of Manipur had declared the election of Y Surchandra from the same constituency in 2017 assembly election as null and void over non-disclosure of information in the election affidavit. Surchandra (65) was declared the MLA from Kakching constituency after winning the seat with 11,133 votes while Rameshwar got 10,503 votes.Ahead of Rajya Sabha election in June this year, Surchandra was disqualified under the Tenth Schedule of the constitution. Since then, the seat for Kakching constituency had been lying vacant in the 11th Manipur Legislative Assembly.Speaking to reporters at the oath ceremony, chief minister N Biren Singh welcomed the recent high court ruling saying that legislature, judiciary and executive have separate functions and powers in a democracy.He also expressed confidence that the BJP would win the bye-election to four assembly seats that were held on November 7. Rameshwar said his priority is to actualize and implement the very vision of the chief minister. On the recent court verdict, he said, “It is a landmark judgement. My faith in the judicial system has further enhanced (after the decision).” With election of Rameshwar as a BJP MLA, the total strength of the BJP in the 60 member house has increased to 20.Last month BJP candidate Ginsuanhau was elected unopposed in the bye-election from Singhat constituency.The BJP-led coalition government in Manipur came to power in March 2017 with support of four MLAs each from NPP and NPF besides one MLA each from TMC,Lok Janshakti Party and an Independent MLA in the 60 member assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-member-sworn-in-as-mla-in-manipur-after-high-court-rejects-congress-member-s-election/story-USrDRloSDvOqaf6zHekAQK.html
09-11-2020||India||Tripura issues Diwali guidelines, bans bursting of firecrackers||With Diwali around the corner, the Tripura government has issued guidelines, including a ban on bursting firecrackers, amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The set of 18 guidelines issued by chief secretary Manoj Kumar make social distancing, face masks mandatory for puja committee members and visitors. As Kali Puja is organised during Diwali, the guidelines said that the idol cannot be over five feet tall. In order to avoid crowds at the pandals, the government has ordered that they be kept open and has prohibited fairs and cultural programmes in front of the pandals. Puja organisers have also been asked to bring idols to pandals without any kind of procession. At least five visitors would be allowed to visit the pandal at a time and they need to stand at a metre’s distance from the pandal. The club organisers have been asked to sanitise the pandals three times on the day of puja and make hand sanitisers and face masks readily available near the pandal.Those who are organising Kali puja at homes can invite 15-20 guests. The government would set different guideline for puja at Tripuradundari temple in Udaipur, 50 kilometres from Agartala. Tripuradundari is one of the 51 Hindu Shaktipeethas or holy shrines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-issues-diwali-guidelines-bans-bursting-of-firecrackers/story-UQCDTXlOgPqWXxH6wrOzsI.html
09-11-2020||India||After MSRTC worker dies by suicide, Maharashtra minister assures payment of 3 months’ salary before Diwali||Maharashtra’s transport minister Anil Parab has assured payment of salaries due to the employees of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) before Diwali after a bus conductor allegedly died by suicide on Monday. A month’s salary will be paid by Monday and the remaining dues for two months will be cleared before Diwali, news agency ANI cited Parab as saying.“They need not be disheartened and take extreme steps like suicide. Economic condition is bad now but we will find a way,” Parab also said.On Monday, an MSRTC bus conductor allegedly died by suicide in Jalgaon over erratic disbursement of salary. “For the last three months, he did not get his salary properly,” his brother was quoted as saying by ANI. “He has held the Thackeray government responsible for his death,” his brother added.“My son was dealing with loans and used to get erratic and low salary and committed suicide because of it,” his father Anil Chaudhry said, ANI reported.MSRTC has not paid the salaries of its employees for the last three months amid the Covid-19 pandemic, which continues to have a devastating effect on the economy and businesses. As the economy is reopening after March due to the Covid-19 lockdown, many state governments are reeling under lack of revenues and are facing financial strain.On October 30, the state-run corporation sought Rs 3,600 crore from the Maharashtra government for payment of salaries and other essential expenses. MSRTC needs Rs 292 crore per month for paying salaries to its employees. The cumulative losses of the transport body have ballooned to over Rs 5,500 crore, Parab who is also the chairperson of MSRTC, had said. The corporation is trying to raise money through external means as well, he had also said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-msrtc-worker-dies-by-suicide-maharashtra-minister-assures-payment-of-3-months-salary-before-diwali/story-jbrvjUC6GtkAttUoCALJ6N.html
09-11-2020||India||Congress, PAGD to jointly contest J&K district development council polls: Farooq Abdullah||Farooq Abdullah, the chairman of the National Conference (NC), has said that the Congress would jointly contest the upcoming District Development Council (DDC) polls in Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) with the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), a day after the latter had dropped hints of becoming a part of the new coalition.Last week, the Congress had said that it would take part in the DDC polls in a bid to prevent the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to record a facile win in the upcoming polls, which are being held for the first time since J&K was declared a Union Territory (UT) on October 31, 2019. The election to fill up 234 vacant seats of sarpanches, panches and urban local bodies will also be held simultaneously, whose results will be declared on December 22.The first DDC elections for 280 constituencies will be held in eight phases following the completion of the delimitation process. Also read | ‘You can talk to China, why not Pakistan?’ PDP chief Mehbooba asks CentreThe elections will start on December 1 and the polling process will be completed by December 24. Polling will be held from 7am to 2pm. Earlier on Saturday, the PAGD top brass held a meeting in the winter capital Jammu, where it was decided that the alliance partners would jointly contest the polls. Sajjad Lone, spokesman, PAGD, announced after the conclusion of the meeting that the members of the coalition have unanimously decided to fight the upcoming DDC polls together. “It is important that the sacred space in democracy is not allowed to be invaded by divisive forces, despite the abruptness of holding the DDC polls,” Lone said. Besides the NC and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the Peoples Conference, the Communist Party of India (Maoist), and the Awami National Conference are part of the PAGD. The NC and the PDP had stayed away from the panchayat polls in 2018. On Sunday, Abdullah announced that the Congress would join the PAGD fold and contest the DDC polls together. “Ghulam Ahmad Mir, president of the Congress’s J&K unit, informed me about his party’s plan to join the alliance (PAGD) and contest the DDA elections together,” Abdullah said.Mir said that party leadership would hold a meeting on Monday and a decision would be conveyed to the public on Tuesday. “The party’s central observer will be present in the meeting to take the final decision,” he said. “I met the NC chairman (Abdullah) and we discussed several issues threadbare,” he added The Congress top brass’ preoccupation with the three-phase Bihar elections, which concluded on Saturday (November 3), had put a decision on the DDA polls in abeyance, Mir had said. Many Congress leaders from the UT are in favour of contesting the DDA elections jointly with other parties in a bid to keep the “divisive BJP” at bay.Abdul Gani Vakil, vice-president of the People’s Conference, said that PAGD’s decision to take part in DDC elections was a sign of political prudence, which would have far-reaching consequences. “The Congress must join the hands to defeat the evil designs of the BJP,” he said.However, Shafiq Mir, president, J&K Panchayat Conference, said his party would contest the upcoming polls solo. “These leaders were opposed to the panchayati system for all these years and made every attempt to weaken it. We will contest independently across J&K,” he said.In a notification, the state election commission had said that November 16 would be the last date for filing nominations; November 17 for scrutiny of nominations; and November 19 for the withdrawal of candidature, an official spokesman said.Elections to the posts of 39,521 sarpanch and panch were conducted in 2018 of which 13,257 positions are lying vacant due to resignation, removal, election of sarpanch as Block Development Council (BDC) chairpersons, death, and non-availability of candidates at the time of election. Among them, 1,089 vacancies relate to the office of sarpanch, while 12,168 are posts of panch.More than 504 panches have resigned for various reasons since elections were held in 2018. The highest number of 129 resignations came from south Kashmir’s Anantnag district, followed by central Kashmir’s Budgam district (81) . In Baramulla and Kupwara districts, 67 and 61 panches submitted their resignations, respectively.Besides, 12 sarpanches also quit with one each resigning in Anantnag and Baramulla districts. Five sarpanches resigned in Pulwama district, while one each quit in Baramulla, Budgam and Bandipora districts.Five panchayat members were killed by militants in the past one year and several of them have been taken to the high-security zone after security forces got inputs that these members are on the radar of militants.The J&K administration wants to hold the polls in a bid to complete the three-tier system of panchayati raj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-pagd-to-jointly-contest-j-k-district-development-council-polls-farooq-abdullah/story-0wschErL1tNDMewNubKtEN.html
09-11-2020||India||Peoples Conference asks for early hearing of petitions challenging abrogation of Article 370||Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) Peoples Conference, which is part of People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), on Monday sought the early hearing of the petitions challenging the abrogation of Article 370 and J&K Reorganisation Act, 2019 in the Supreme Court (SC).Soon after the nullification of Articles 370 and 35A of the Constitution, several petitions were filed in the apex court by different political parties, civil society groups and individuals challenging the decision. “J&K Peoples Conference moves SC, seeks early hearing of a batch of Petitions challenging abrogation of Article 370 & reorganisation of J&K,” tweeted J&K Peoples Conference.J&K Peoples Conference moves SC, seeks early hearing of a batch of Petitions challenging abrogation of Article 370 & reorganisation of J&K pic.twitter.com/iSpPV4QRouThe spokesman of Peoples Conference, Adnan Ashraf, said the application has stated that the petitioners have made out a very strong prima facie case and the issues raised are being considered by a constitution bench of this court.“Notwithstanding the foregoing, pending the final hearing of these petitions challenging the abrogation of the special status of the erstwhile State of Jammu & and Kashmir and the abrogation of the Constitution of Jammu & and Kashmir, and notwithstanding the prevailing pandemic, conditions, sweeping changes are being brought about by the Centre that impact the rights of a large number of people, including dilution of the safeguards earlier available to the permanent residents of the erstwhile State of Jammu and Kashmir,” staed the application before the court.He said the application has also mentioned that these changes will have an irreparable impact on the rights of the citizens of J&K, including creation of domicile rights and third-party rights in land ownership.Also Read: ‘You can talk to China, why not Pakistan?’ PDP chief Mehbooba asks Centre“The very purpose of the present proceedings will be severely undermined if the present petitions are not heard and disposed of urgently. Suffice to say sufferance of the people continues as if under conquest without a full-fledged responsible government. In view of the foregoing, the present petition and the petitions tagged thereto ought to be heard and disposed of urgently as significant changes to the rights of the residents of the erstwhile State of Jammu and Kashmir have already been brought about by the Centre.”National Conference (vice-president Omar Abdullah said the decision seeking early hearing on the petitions was taken by PAGD leadership. “As decided in the recent meeting of the People’s Alliance we are seeking early hearings in this matter, so that the petitions challenging 5th Aug 2019 move forward,” tweeted Omar Abdullah.On August 5, 2019, the Central government had rescinded the special status of J&K in Parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/peoples-conference-asks-for-early-hearing-of-petitions-challenging-abrogation-of-article-370/story-Mi3GoaPbYupzC2z94F9ZBM.html
09-11-2020||India||India, Maldives discuss ways to boost economic recovery||India and the Maldives on Monday discussed ways to boost the Indian Ocean archipelago’s economic recovery amid the Covid-19 pandemic, including enhancing tourism and speeding up development projects. The two sides are set to sign four memorandums of understanding (MoUs), including one for the grant of $100 million by India for the $500-million Greater Male Connectivity Project that will link the capital Male with three islands. Talks in Male between visiting foreign secretary Harsh Shringla and his Maldivian counterpart Abdul Ghafoor Mohamed focused on economic recovery amid the pandemic. Shringla, who is on a two-day visit, also met President Ibrahim Solih to review bilateral ties. The foreign secretaries discussed ways to strengthen and deepen the multi-faceted relationship, according to a statement from the Maldives’ foreign ministry. They emphasised “recovery and resilience efforts to curb the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic, including boosting tourism, accelerating the implementation of the ongoing development cooperation projects across the Maldives, and the means of elevating connectivity and bilateral trade between the Maldives and India”, the statement said. Also read | India to help countries enhance capacity for delivery of Covid-19 vaccines: Foreign secretaryThe four MoUs expected to be signed during Shringla’s visit will cover the Greater Male Connectivity Project, cooperation in youth and sports affairs, setting up soil and plant testing laboratories, and establishing a drug detox facility. India has unveiled a slew of measures to boost economy recovery in the Maldives, where the tourism industry has been hit hard by the pandemic. Last month, India provided a soft loan of $250 million as budgetary support, and announced a $500-million package in August to help build the Greater Male Connectivity Project. Besides the $100-million grant, India will provide a $400-million line of credit for the project. The two sides also launched a cargo ferry service connecting Tuticorin and Cochin ports with Male in September to cut costs and time taken to transport goods. Shringla and his Maldivian counterpart also discussed health and cultural cooperation, human resource development, and consular and community affairs. Ghafoor thanked the Indian government for its “constant support and commitment” for the development of the Maldives. During his meeting with Solih, Shringla discussed ways to strengthen the bilateral partnership at a time when the two sides are marking the 55th anniversary of formal diplomatic ties. The two sides also discussed ways to enhance regional trade and connectivity, economic cooperation, tourism and overcoming the pandemic. Solih thanked the Indian government for agreeing to implement an air bubble between the two countries and said increasing numbers of Indian tourists had visited the Maldives since it reopened its borders. Solih also thanked India for backing development projects in the Maldives through line of credit agreements, including the Greater Male connectivity project, the Gulhifalhu port project, water and sewerage related projects in 34 islands and a cancer hospital. The Maldives is the sixth country Shringla has visited in the aftermath of pandemic-related travel restrictions, the others being Bangladesh, Myanmar, France, Germany and the UK.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-maldives-discuss-ways-to-boost-economic-recovery/story-MY6aMWeqDGKJUtlZ8nl6kO.html
09-11-2020||India||Promote ‘local for Diwali’ to give new life to economy, says PM Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday appealed to people to be “vocal for local’ and promote “local for Diwali” and buy products made by artisans.The Prime Minister’s pitch came during an address after announcing developmental projects worth Rs 614 crore to his parliamentary constituency Varanasi via video conference. He inaugurated 16 schemes worth about Rs 220 crore and laid the foundation of 14 projects worth over Rs 394 core.Buying things made by artisans and craftsmen would brighten their Diwali and give the entire economy a new life, he said. “At present, the mantra of ‘local for Diwali’ along with ‘vocal for local’ reverberates everywhere. I urge the people of Banaras and countrymen to promote local for Diwali. Tell people that the products made by artisans are good. It will strengthen local identity and will illuminate Diwali of craftsmen and artisans who make these products. Celebrate Diwali with local, be vocal for local. You will see, it will bring a new life to the entire economy,” Modi said. It would lead to branding of the products made by artisans and would bring very good results in the long term, he added. Highlighting the developmental works that took place in Varanasi during the last six years, PM Modi said the blessings of Lord Kashi Vishwanath were behind all the developmental works, which were underway in Varanasi and those that had already been completed. “… it is the blessing of Baba Kashi Vishwanath that whenever some projects are inaugurated in Kashi, the foundation of several others are laid,” he said.“Today, 16 schemes worth about Rs 220 crore were inaugurated and foundation of 14 projects worth about Rs 400 crore have been laid,” Modi said.He praised Uttar Pradesh chief minister Adityanath and his team for completion of the projects on time. From cleaning the Ganga to health services, from road and infrastructure to tourism and from electricity to sports, Varanasi was developing well in every sector, he said.He mentioned that Khidkiya Ghat was being beautified at an estimated cost of about Rs 35 crore. Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) operated boats will ply on the Ganga from the ghat and the move will reduce pollution in the river, he added.He said Varanasi was becoming a model of inland water way connectivity. The country’s first multi-modal terminal has already been set up in Varanasi. “Gradually, the picture of the ghats is changing. Along with the cleanliness and beautification of the Ganga ghats, Sarnath is also glowing in a new form,” the PM said. He also inaugurated the light and sound show in Sarnath where Lord Buddha had given his first sermon on dharma.The PM also underlined Varanasi’s improved connectivity with the rest of the country.“Six years ago, only 12 flights used to operate from Lal Bahadur Shastri International Airport (in Varanasi), now 48 flights run daily, which is four times more,” he said.Enhancing connectivity to Kashi had always been a priority for his government, he said. He mentioned facilities like International Rice Research Institute’s South Asian Regional Centre, Milk Processing Plant, and perishable cargo centre set up in Varanasi in the last six years. He said the farmers were benefiting a lot from such facilities. For the last six years, unprecedented work had also been done on health infrastructure in the city, he said.“Today not only in UP, but in a way, it is becoming a hub of health facilities for the entire Purvanchal region,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/promote-local-for-diwali-to-give-new-life-to-economy-says-pm-narendra-modi/story-aPMHUSpN05wQEoVsXK4YaN.html
09-11-2020||India||Actor Arjun Rampal to appear before Narcotics Control Bureau on Nov 11||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Monday summoned actor Arjun Rampal to appear before the agency on November 11 hours after conducting raids at his premises in Mumbai, news agency ANI reported. This comes a day after film producer Firoz Nadiawala’s house was raided by the agency in connection with a drugs case on Sunday and his wife Shabana Saeed was arrested under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) act after 10 grams of marijuana was found at their residence. The producer was also summoned by the agency and his wife remanded to judicial custody till November 23.The agency is probing the use of drugs in Bollywood. Four others were arrested along with Saeed on Sunday for allegedly being drug peddlers and suppliers.Earlier, the NCB had arrested Agisilaos Demetriades, brother of Rampal’s girlfriend Gabriella. Reports suggest Agisilaos was a part of a drug syndicate linked to the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput.The NCB believes Agisilaos was in touch with the drug suppliers who were said to have connections to Sushant’s girlfriend, Rhea Chakraborty. Rhea was arrested on September 9 and subsequently released on bail by the bureau after she spent nearly a month in jail on charges of procuring drugs for Sushant. Sushant Singh Rajput was found dead in his Mumbai flat on June 14. The NCB got involved with the case after Rhea Chakraborty’s WhatsApp chats were released by the Enforcement Directorate, another agency probing the case, in addition to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narcotics-control-bureau-summons-actor-arjun-rampal-ncb-official/story-jRW0NLj4jnYGVLDI7cz5tM.html
09-11-2020||India||Bombay HC refuses interim bail to Arnab Goswami in abetment to suicide case||The Bombay high court on Monday rejected Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami’s application for bail in a 2018 abetment to suicide case.The high court had on Saturday reserved its order on Goswami’s plea.Goswami and two others - Feroze Shaikh and Nitish Sarda - were arrested by Alibaug police on November 4 in connection with the suicide of architect-interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother in 2018 over alleged non-payment of dues by companies of the accused.After his arrest from his Lower Parel residence in Mumbai, Goswami was taken to Alibaug, where the Chief Judicial Magistrate remanded him and the two others in judicial custody till November 18.Watch l Arnab Goswami’s interim bail plea rejected; Governor ‘concerned’ l Key updates Also read | ‘Forced to consume liquid’: Arnab Goswami in bail plea in 2018 caseGoswami was then kept at a local school which designated as a Covid-19 centre for the Alibaug prison. He was shifted to Taloja jail in Maharashtra’s Raigad district on Sunday. According to the police, Goswami was moved to Taloja jail after allegedly being found using a mobile phone while in judicial custody.The Raigad crime branch found Goswami was active on social media using somebody’s mobile phone, despite his personal mobile phone having been seized by police when he was taken into custody on November 4, an official quoted by news agency PTI said.Goswami had earlier filed an interim bail plea before the Bombay high court on Saturday which had given him an option to file the application in sessions court. The journalist did that and filed a bail plea before a sessions court on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-hc-refuses-interim-bail-to-arnab-goswami-in-2018-abetment-to-suicide-case/story-hQ4QVLFNynqhrPoqD12mZM.html
09-11-2020||India||Foreign touch: No Hindi biggie without overseas market?||Now, it’s official. 2020 is unlikely to have any bright spot vis-a-vis theatrical earnings as no Bollywood biggie is going to lighten up the 70mm screen. Kabir Khan’s ‘83 -- starring Ranveer Singh and Deepika Padukone -- has been moved from the Christmas weekend, with one of the major reasons being, the new wave of Covid-19 cases and lockdowns in various parts of the world. Experts admit that as coronavirus cases rise again globally, the “road to recovery has gotten even longer.”  #ThisIs83 . @kabirkhankk @deepikapadukone @sarkarshibasish #SajidNadiadwala @vishnuinduri @ipritamofficial @reliance.entertainment @_kaproductions @fuhsephantom @nadiadwalagrandson @vibrimedia @zeemusiccompany @pvrpictures @83thefilmA post shared by  Ranveer Singh (@ranveersingh) on Mar 6, 2020 at 10:30pm PSTNo biggie in sightWhat makes the matter worse is the fact that though the film exhibition world is looking at a topline biggie -- after theatres reopening in India -- to help them revive the sector, insiders maintain that a big-budget project is unlikely to hit theatres domestically without the overseas market. To put things in perspective, according to the Ficci-EY media and entertainment industry report 2020, overseas theatricals contributed a whopping Rs 27 billion to Indian films last year.  #SooryavanshiTrailer out now 🚔 (link in bio) @akshaykumar @ajaydevgn @ranveersingh @itsrohitshetty @karanjohar @sarkarshibasish @apoorva1972 @reliance.entertainment @rohitshettypicturez @dharmamovies #CapeOfGoodFilms @pvrpictures @tseries.official @sooryavanshi2403A post shared by  Katrina Kaif (@katrinakaif) on Mar 1, 2020 at 11:32pm PSTExperts feel that while smaller films can manage with India-only release, and other revenue streams such as TV and OTT but a big-budget film needs global earnings too. Says trade analyst Taran Adarsh: “Small or mid-budget films can still manage with a domestic theatrical release but since stakes are high for big budget ventures, they need the overseas cushioning. And why should they forego of a huge chunk? Especialiy when there has been no income for seven-eight months, and I am sure there must be a huge interest amount too (on unreleased films).”Resurgence of Covid-19 For the record, the Covid-19 scare has hit almost the entire Europe again even as lockdowns have made a comeback in countries such as France, Germany, Italy and UK among others. Even Malaysia is currently seeing a shutdown of various activities including movie theatres. “We moved ‘83 from Christmas weekend for two reasons: one, by the time the announcement about Maharashtra theatres reopening came in, it was too late as just four-week long marketing window won’t be enough for such a big project,” says Shibasish Sarkar, group CEO of Reliance Entertainment (that has backed films such as ‘83 and Sooryavanshi), adding that “overseas markets look very tricky right now.  अभी आँख में खटक रही हूँ तो क्या.... कभी तो दिल में धड़कूँगी 💁🏻‍♀️ One line that sums up Rani Kashyap! And it’s a wrap on #HaseenDilruba ! Finally, after shooting during the coldest days in Haridwar to sultry hot days in Mumbai this film has probably experienced all seasons and human emotions possible under the sun (including the Pandemic ) Here’s to getting ‘pulp fiction’ back on screen with the character you either love to hate or hate to love coz basic toh hum vaise bhi kuch karte nahi hai na 😁 P.S - don’t know why we r so happy in this picture must be coz of @polyvynil , the only person on set who has better sense of humour than Rani Kashyap and the other one is the only one who loved this self obsessed borderline narcissist character more than she ever could @vikrantmassey87 #FilmWrap #HaseenDilruba #EndOfAnotherChapterA post shared by  Taapsee Pannu (@taapsee) on Oct 29, 2020 at 7:59am PDTHe adds: “With theatres being shut in many parts of Europe including UK, and cases going up substantially in the US too, things aren’t very clear. Ideally, for a big-budget film, you would want to release simultaneously -- domestically as well as in foreign markets.” Officially-speaking, as of now, Manoj Bajpayee-Diljit Dosanjh starrer Suraj Pe Mangal Bhari is supposed to release on Diwali and Christopher Nolan’s Tenet will finally hit Indian shores towards the end of this month.The exhibition sector, on their part, feels that Indian filmmakers “need to be more pragmatic and practical.” As exhibitor-distribitor Akshaye Rathi puts it: “Hindi films are made primarily for desi market so why can’t they release domestically and also in certain overseas markets? Even Nolan said in a recent interview that content needs to come in for the survival of the entire theatrical ecosystem. Filmmakers need to think hard about it. If things don’t improve, and with no new content, many in the exhibition sector may shut down or go bankrupt in the next four-five months. Then, there will be no theatres to make films for, with the only option being streaming sites.”  When nature beckoned, We listened… We switched gears, From fast forward to slow motion... Now, there is a call again, a second coming, An excitement, yet a caution… And a hunger to reboot, A thirst to get back in… With this feeling, We begin, again... #SardarUdhamSingh Can’t wait to #reboot, with post production of #SardarUdhamSingh – set to #BeginAgain, tomorrow – 8th June @vickykaushal09 @filmsrisingsun @kinoworks @ronnielahiri @writish1 #Shubendu #Avik Mukhopadhyay @moitrashantanu @shekharpraja @jitu.gupta87 @bhargavoza2020 @singhal_tushar @sayanghosh_29. @corneliuspia @banitasandhu @veerakapuree @amolparashar @kumarthakur1 @bhanubabbal @vibhutitomar @fakelabeeb @mithilladA post shared by @ shoojitsircar on Jun 7, 2020 at 1:28am PDTA quick filmy lowdown!Not just 2020, even the early-2021 film calendar looks hazy right now. While Vicky Kaushal-starrer Sardar Udham is not going to keep its January date, there is no clarity yet on Sooryavanshi release date too. Other films that were originally supposed to come out in around early next year -- such as Haseen Dillruba, Bachchan Pandey, Jersey and Atrangi Re have all been delayed. Among the films that are ready (in terms of complete shooting etc.) with no release date are Mumbai Saga, Bunty Aur Babli 2, Jayeshbhai Jordaar, Indoo Ki Jawani, Jhund, Shershaah and Sandeep Aur Pinky Faraar among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/foreign-touch-no-hindi-biggie-without-overseas-market/story-rB0075cyOxXpOIAmGI4SSO.html
09-11-2020||India||West Bengal Assembly elections approaching, promises to free political prisoners do the rounds||The politics over the release of political prisons, if a new party comes to power, has surfaced once again in West Bengal, where crucial assembly elections will be held in April-May next year.This time, the promise to release political prisoners was made by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which has emerged as the primary challenger to the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) government. On Sunday, Dilip Ghosh, the head of the BJP’s Bengal unit, announced at a public rally in East Midnapore district that the party would withdraw cases against political prisoners belonging to any party, including the TMC. “We will withdraw all false cases lodged against political prisoners. Not just cases, which have been lodged against BJP workers, but we will also withdraw cases, which have been filed to falsely implicate Communist Party of India (Marxist) and Congress workers. We will even withdraw cases, which have been lodged against some TMC supporters to prevent them from quitting the party. A decision will be taken in the first cabinet meeting after the BJP comes to power in Bengal,” said Ghosh. Also read | ‘After Bihar, upcoming elections in Bengal, TN will be held on schedule’: EC Sushil ChandraThe BJP is pinning its hopes on unseating the TMC government in the next year’s assembly polls for the 294-member Bengal legislative assembly on the back of its impressive gains in the 2019 parliamentary elections. The BJP had won 18 out of 42 Lok Sabha (LS) seats last year.Human rights activists said that in 1977, when the Left Front government came to power for the first time, a decision to release political prisoners was taken in the first cabinet meeting, headed by the then chief minister Jyoti Basu. In February 2011, Mamata Banerjee before coming to power had made a similar pledge of freeing political prisoners. Later in May 2011, when her party came to power, she constituted a 13-member committee to review the process of releasing political prisoners. The committee was notified in the Kolkata Gazette on June 4. “Even though the Left Front government had withdrawn cases against political prisoners, the TMC government didn’t. In 2011, there were around 200-odd prisoners with the status of political prisoners. Only those who got bail or were released by the court were set free. More than 500 such inmates didn’t get the status of political prisoners. Later in 2013, the TMC government changed the definition of political prisoners which makes it all the more difficult for such inmates to be released,” said Ranjit Sur, a central secretariat member of the Association for Protection of Democratic Rights (APDR), a human rights body. The TMC government had prepared a list of 52 prisoners, who were to be released in 2011 based on the recommendations of the review committee.But later the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had cautioned the Bengal government against the release of inmates, who owed their allegiance to the outlawed Communist Party of India (Maoist). However, some Maoist leaders were released following their acquittal. The ruling TMC took a dig at the BJP over Ghosh’s announcement.However, TMC leaders refused to make any comment on the proposed bid by the opposition party to release political prisoners and cited that it was the CM’s prerogative. “Ghosh is trying to send a message to all anti-social elements and has urged them and their associates to vote for the BJP in a bid to come to power. This is unconstitutional and illegal. The BJP is day dreaming of coming to power,” said Saugata Roy, a TMC Member of Parliament (MP), who represents the Dum Dum constituency in the LS. Congress leader in the LS, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, and Left Front legislature party leader in the Bengal assembly, Sujan Chakraborty, lashed out at the BJP and called out the latter’s poll gimmicks in a bid to corner some additional votes in what promises to be a keenly contested assembly election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-assembly-elections-approaching-promises-to-free-political-prisoners-do-the-rounds/story-y7SQNDLS1bUEU5TlRmEgeN.html
09-11-2020||India||Child declared dead wakes up before burial in Dibrugarh, dies few hours later||There was high drama at the Muttuck Tea Estate in Dibrugarh district of Assam on Sunday after a child, declared dead earlier, woke up minutes before its burial, only to die a few hours later. Police in Lahowal arrested a compounder of the hospital of the tea garden on Monday for allegedly declaring the child dead without proper verification and in absence of a doctor. “The sick child, a boy aged less than one year, was taken to the hospital where he was declared dead by the compounder. The doctor of the hospital was absent at that time,” said Hrishikesh Hazarika, in-charge, Lahowal police station. “But when the family was about to bury the child, it started moving. It was then rushed to Assam Medical College and Hospital (AMCH), where it was declared brought dead on arrival,” he added. Following the incident, dozens of tea garden workers started protesting against the hospital and demanded stringent action against the compounder for declaring a living child dead. “Maybe the child would have survived if the compounder hadn’t declared him dead and the parents had enough time to take him to a bigger hospital. We have lodged an FIR and arrested the compounder Gautam Mitra as he is not authorized to pronounce anyone dead,” said Hazarika. Amid the drama, there was panic among patients and their relatives at AMCH in Dibrugarh on Sunday night due to a fire at the hospital’s maternity and obstetric section. Due to the fire, electricity supply to some parts of the hospital remained affected for a few hours and patients had to be shifted out for safety. Though there were allegations that a newborn child admitted at the ICU unit for babies had died due to disruption in power supply, senior police officials have ruled that out. “The parents had initially alleged that the death was due to disruption of power following the fire. But when records were checked it was revealed that the child had died prior to the fire incident,” said Prateek Thube, superintendent of police, Dibrugarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/child-declared-dead-wakes-up-before-burial-in-dibrugarh-dies-few-hours-later/story-040kW9bjxaZesUdSeTTzdO.html
09-11-2020||India||Governor Koshyari expresses concern over Arnab Goswami’s health, security||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Monday expressed his concern over health and security of news anchor and editor-in-chief of Republic TV Arnab Goswami who has been arrested for allegedly abetting suicide. He spoke to the state home minister Anil Deshmukh to express his concern and also asked him to allow Goswami’s family to see him.“Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari spoke to Maharashtra’s Home Minister Anil Deshmukh and conveyed to him his concern over the security and health of news anchor and editor-in-chief of Republic Media Network Arnab Goswami. The Governor also asked the Home Minister to allow the family of Arnab Goswami to see him and to speak to him,” the Raj Bhavan said in a statement.This is not the first time when the Governor has expressed his concern for Goswami to Deshmukh.Earlier, he conveyed his concern over the manner in which the Republic TV chief was arrested, the statement said.Goswami was arrested on November 4 from his Lower Parel residence in connection with the case of abetment to suicide of interior designer Anvay Naik who, in his suicide note, had blamed Goswami and two others for his and his mother’s deaths in 2018.The Bharatiya Janata Party has been attacking Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government over Gowami’s arrest saying that it is an attack on democracy. Most of the senior BJP leaders including Union home minister Amit Shah have criticized the MVA government.Goswami was lodged in a primary school which has been converted into a Covid-19 facility in Alibagh. On Sunday, he was moved to a quarantine centre inside Taloja jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/governor-koshyari-expresses-concern-over-arnab-goswami-s-health-security/story-oGA1gg0L5M9OOtwrJfNWZL.html
09-11-2020||India||Army officer found dead in Jammu and Kashmir’s Rajouri, police investigating||An Indian Army officer was found dead in Jammu and Kashmir’s Rajouri on Monday, officials said. The police are investigating the death under “mysterious conditions.”Major Vineet Gulia of Haryana deceased was found at the camp in the Thanamandi belt of the district, according to police officials quoted by news agency PTI. “Our teams found a bullet injury in his head. Inquest proceedings have been initiated under section 174 Cr Pc,” Rajouri district SSP, Chandan Kohli said. The offer was a company commander of the army’s 38RR Dera Ki Gali, people familiar with the matter said. More details are awaited. Earlier on Sunday, four security personnel, including an officer and three terrorists were killed when a joint team of the army and the Border Security Force (BSF) foiled an infiltration bid along the Line of Control (LoC) in the Union Territory’s Machil sector, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-officer-found-dead-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-rajouri-police-investigating/story-F4DaqbqlkOjSUr3Etx2kIO.html
09-11-2020||India||Three Odisha policemen injured in fire sparked by mosquito repellent coil||Three policemen of Odisha Special Armed Police in Bhadrak district sustained severe burn injuries late Sunday night after a mosquito repellent coil sparked a fire.Officials said the armed police personnel of 5th Batallaion of OSAP were in their barracks near the Puruna Bazar Police station in Bhadrak district when the mishap occurred. They had returned from duty and lit up the mosquito coil before going to sleep. The police station was not damaged in the fire.Officials said the policemen received burn injuries after their mosquito nets caught fire.“The policemen received burn injuries on their hands and forehead. They have been rushed to the Bhadrak district headquarters hospital,” said Bhadrak’s superintendent of police Rajesh Pandit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-odisha-policemen-injured-in-fire-sparked-by-mosquito-repellent-coil/story-uTFR6QawxxW2GwihPIiFJO.html
09-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Bursting of firecrackers banned in Mumbai except on Diwali evening and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan TimesMumbai: BMC bans bursting of firecrackers except on Diwali eveningThe Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Monday banned bursting of firecrackers in public and private places in Mumbai except on Saturday (November 14), when Diwali will be celebrated, because of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. Read moreTo draw a ‘balance,’ Haryana allows bursting of firecrackers for 2 hours on DiwaliHaryana, which had announced a ban on sale of firecrackers in the state, has now allowed bursting them for two hours during upcoming festivals, including Diwali. Read moreA new role for Kamala Harris: Comic book heroShe will be the next vice-president of the United States but Kamala Harris has chalked up yet another achievement: Heroine of a new comic book published in Canada. Read more Union minister Kiren Rijiju lauds UP police for busting Khelo India racketUnion sports minister Kiren Rijiju has lauded very quick action by the Uttar Pradesh police in busting a racket where dubious elements extorted money from athletes by promising them their participation in the Khelo India Youth Games 2021. Read moreIf we can learn anything from Trump’s defeat…: Sena’s jibe at ‘losing’ NDA in BiharIt would be good if India learns something from US President Donald Trump’s defeat, said Shiv Sena on Monday while comparing the US Presidential election scenario with Bihar Assembly polls. Read more‘Unfortunate’: Nitin Gadkari on cars fined for breaching 40 kmph speed limitSpeaking at a road safety virtual conference Way to Vision Zero last week, Nitin Gadkari said it is unfortunate when vehicles plying on such roads are penalised for breaching speed limit of a mere 40 kmph. Read more13 years of Om Shanti Om: Farah Khan threw up every time Shah Rukh Khan took off his shirt for Dard-e-DiscoIt has been 13 years since the time Shah Rukh Khan-Deepika Padukone-starrer Om Shanti Om and Ranbir Kapoor and Sonam Kapoor’s Saawariya went head-to-head at the box office. The two films also marked the debuts of Deepika, Ranbir and Sonam. Read more1-year-old elephant’s birthday celebration with cake may cure your Monday bluesThere are many things that can induce a happy feeling in one’s heart. These photos of one-year-old elephant calf Sreekutty’s birthday is one such happy event. The birthday girl celebrated her day in Kappukadu elephant rescue centre in Thiruvananthapuram on Sunday. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘He has led the way this year,’ Marcus Stoinis says Shikhar Dhawan is ‘a leader within the team’Shikhar Dhawan has been enjoying a terrific season for Delhi Capitals in the UAE. The left-handed batsman has already scored 603 runs in 16 games, and is currently at the 2nd position in the list of highest run-getters in the season. Read more Indians’ H1B hope: Why Biden may struggle to reverse Trump’s immigration ordersAfter 4 days of suspense, Democratic party leader Joe Biden was announced the winner of the 2020 US Presidential election. Biden-Harris administration is expected to reverse some of the decisions of the outgoing Trump rule. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-bursting-of-firecrackers-banned-in-mumbai-except-on-diwali-evening-and-all-the-latest-news/story-5WNqgbgy4EaBGJjYTipk4I.html
09-11-2020||India||Thieves steal cash, electronic items from Se Cathedral heritage site in Old Goa||Thieves broke into the church complex of the historic Se Cathedral at Old Goa and stole cash and other electronic equipment, church authorities said Monday. No artefacts or items of historical importance have been reported stolen. “They broke into the office section of the church and have wiped clean the cupboards of cash and electronic equipment. Even the CCTV camera console has been stolen,” Fr Alfred Vaz the parish priest of Old Goa, said. The break-in is believed to have taken place on Sunday night and was noticed Monday morning. The historic church which dates back to the 16th century is a UNESCO world heritage site besides also being a site of important religious significance owing to its designation as the seat of the Goa Archbishop. The police have pressed dog squads into services as well as roped in fingerprint experts to try and identify the thieves but said the thieves made sure to leave no traces and have wiped down surfaces they could have touched. “Police have registered a case and investigations are in progress,” a police spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thieves-steal-cash-electronic-items-from-se-cathedral-heritage-site-in-old-goa/story-qDWh0WxJGtSpQlTDW1LcZP.html
09-11-2020||India||Maharashtra governor ‘concerned’ about Arnab Goswami’s health, security||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari spoke to state home minister Anil Deshmukh and conveyed to him his concern over the security and health of arrested Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami, according to the Raj Bhawan. He also asked the home minister to allow Goswami’s family to meet him.Arnab Goswami, who was arrested by Mumbai Police on November 4 in connection with a 2018 abetment to suicide case, said he was being subjected to torture and was not being allowed to talk to his lawyers. He was speaking to Republic TV reporters from a van that shifted him from a prison quarantine centre to Navi Mumbai’s Taloja jail on Sunday.“I had requested them please let me talk (to my lawyers). But they denied. I am telling everyone my life is at stake. My police custody was rejected. They tried to shift me at night only. Today morning they have dragged me. Everybody is seeing what is happening to me. They want to delay the process and keep me in jail. Please give me bail, I am appealing to the Supreme Court,” Arnab Goswami was seen saying with folded hands in the video.The decision to shift the 47-year-old journalist to Alibag jail before he finished his quarantine period in the prison quarantine centre was taken after he was allegedly found using someone’s mobile phone as his phone was seized when he was arrested last week.The Bombay High Court will pronounce its order on Goswami’s interim bail application at 3 pm on Monday, according to the notice issued late Saturday night on the high court’s website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/concerned-bs-koshyari-speaks-to-anil-deshmukh-over-arnab-goswami-s-health-security/story-9ektCLHKbjUPqMI1z56eHN.html
09-11-2020||India||BJP will lose in Bihar just like Trump lost in the US, says Sena mouthpiece Saamana||A day ahead of the counting of votes in Bihar assembly elections, Shiv Sena on Monday said there will be a change of power in the state, with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which is part of NDA in the state, losing there just as Donald Trump did in the US. Predicting NDA’s defeat under Nitish Kumar, an editorial in party mouthpiece Saamana also slammed the BJP over the Namaste Trump event in February 2020, when Donald Trump visited Ahmedabad and Delhi, amid coronavirus pandemic. “Power has already changed in America. At the same time, the National Democratic Alliance led by Nitish Kumar is clearly losing in the Bihar Assembly elections. Even though ‘Namaste Trump’ [event] was held in India, the people of the US have bid goodbye to Trump and have rectified their mistake. In Bihar, signs of a power change are clearly visible,” the editorial said.The Sena mouthpiece added that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar did not stand a chance before Tejashwi Yadav and the people of Bihar had taken it upon themselves to bring in change. “People have taken Bihar elections in their hands. They did not kneel before PM Modi and Nitish Kumar. The crowds were soaring in Tejashwi Yadav’s rallies. At the same time, the country has also seen pictures of the lukewarm response of the crowd to PM Modi and Nitish Kumar during their rallies,” the editorial remarked.It added that BJP and Janata Dal (United) had created jungle raj but the “People in Bihar have said ‘You leave first, we will handle jungle raj even if it comes’” and went on to praise the people of Bihar and the US.The editorial slammed the government for spending crores in the time of a pandemic over Namaste Trump event in Ahmedabad earlier in February. “It cannot be denied that Donald Trump was invited to Gujarat in the middle of a pandemic and coronavirus spread because of the event,” it said, adding, “Now the people of America have ended ‘Trump’s infection’ forever.” It added that Trump was never suitable for the office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-will-lose-in-bihar-just-like-trump-lost-in-the-us-says-sena-mouthpiece-saamana/story-GbDRkBD1fYsjR5ZNbK1gJK.html
09-11-2020||India||Telugu megastar Chiranjeevi tests positive for Covid-19||Popular Telugu actor and former Union minister K Chiranjeevi on Monday announced that he had tested positive for Covid-19 but was asymptomatic. In a statement, Chiranjeevi, a megastar in Telugu film industry, said he had taken a test for Covid-19 before resuming shooting for his upcoming film Acharya as per the health protocol. “Unfortunately, I tested positive. I am currently asymptomatic and quarantining myself at home,” he said. He requested all those who had met him in the last five days to also undergo Covid-19 test. “Will update you on my recovery soon,” he said. It was only on Saturday evening that Chiranjeevi, along with another senior actor Akkineni Nagarjuna, had met Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao at Pragati Bhavan, the latter’s camp office in Hyderabad, to discuss the situation in the Telugu film industry in the wake of Covid-19 situation. In the meeting, the visuals of which were released to the media, Chiranjeevi, Nagarjuna and the chief minister were seen together closely without wearing any masks. KCR’s nephew and Rajya Sabha member J Santosh was also there as they were walking out of the meeting hall. The actors also handed over cheques on behalf of the Telugu film industry to the CM’s Relief Fund to take up relief works in the recently flood-hit areas of Hyderabad and parts of Telangana. The chief minister gave his consent to resume film shootings and opening of theatres to screen films with all precautions to prevent the spread of Covid-19. He also asked them to send a delegation of film personalities to study the film city in Bulgaria so that a similar film city could be opened in 1,500-2,000 acres on the outskirts of Hyderabad. Chiranjeevi had floated Praja Rajyam Party in 2008 and contested 2009 assembly elections in combined Andhra Pradesh but achieved little success. He merged his party with the Congress in 2012 and was nominated as Rajya Sabha member by the UPA government in April 2012. He served as Union minister of state for tourism in the Manmohan Singh cabinet between October 2012 and May 2014. After the UPA lost power in 2014, Chiranjeevi dropped out from active politics and returned to films.Since 2016, he acted in a couple of films which were big hits and after completion of his Rajya Sabha term in 2018 he did not take any interest in politics. ‘Acharya’ is his third movie after quitting politics. Chiranjeevi’s youngest brother Pawan Kalyan, who is also a popular actor, is the president of Jana Sena Party which failed to make a mark in the assembly elections in Andhra Pradesh. His party is now in alliance with the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telugu-megastar-chiranjeevi-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-6fSIfopJfNpNANJ7a9L59K.html
09-11-2020||India||Narcotics Control Bureau raids actor Arjun Rampal’s house in Mumbai||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Monday conducted raids at the premises of actor Arjun Rampal in Mumbai, news agency ANI reported.The NCB has not said anything about the raids yet. More details are awaited.This comes a day after film producer Firoz Nadiawala’s house was raided by the bureau on Sunday and his wife Shabana Saeed was arrested under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) act. The producer was also summoned by the agency.Earlier, the NCB had arrested Agisilaos Demetriades, brother of Rampal’s girlfriend Gabriella. Reports suggest Agisilaos was a part of a drug syndicate linked to the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput.NCB officers said Agisilaos was in constant touch with many drug peddlers who supplied drugs to Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik and others arrested in Rajput’s death case. Both Rhea and Showik were also arrested by the bureau earlier. Rhea was given bail by the Bombay High Court on October 7 while Showik still continues to remain in custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncb-conducts-raids-at-actor-arjun-rampal-s-house-in-mumbai/story-LxeBJWaTgxVonDzW3Y5QhM.html
09-11-2020||India||To draw a ‘balance,’ Haryana allows bursting of firecrackers for 2 hours on Diwali||Haryana, which had announced a ban on sale of firecrackers in the state, has now allowed bursting them for two hours during upcoming festivals, including Diwali.Also Read | NGT bans sale and use of firecrackers in Delhi-NCR till Nov 30, Haryana allows limited useIn an order, dated November 8, the Haryana government said the decision had been taken to strike a “balance” between the potentially harmful consequences of bursting crackers amidst the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, and the economic impact of the ban on small traders. Use of firecrackers allowed only between 8 pm till 10 pm on Diwali and Gurupurab, and 11.55 pm till 1230 am on Christmas and New Year's eve: Haryana Government pic.twitter.com/nunxZRmdIB“Whereas amidst the Covid-19 pandemic through which the state of Haryana is passing and considering the approaching winter season during which the elderly, children, persons with co-morbidities and others, may develop respiratory problems,” noted the order signed by Chief Secretary-cum-chairperson of the Haryana state executive committee.Also Read | After a ‘complete ban’ Haryana govt allows bursting of crackers for two hours on Diwali“And whereas during the approaching festive season of Diwali, Gurupurab and Kartik Purnima, people usually burst crackers which can affect the respiratory health of vulnerable groups and aggravate the health condition of Covid-19 positive persons and persons in home isolation,” the order further said.“Exercising the powers conferred to me under the Disaster Management Act, 2005,” the order quoted the chief secretary as saying bursting of firecrackers will be allowed only between 8pm and 10pm during the upcoming festivals like Diwali and Gurupurab. However, on Christmas and New Year’s Eve, the order said, bursting of firecrackers will be allowed between 11:55pm and 00:30am.The order also directed concerned authorities to pre-identify areas/fields to promote community fire cracking. Anyone violating the guidelines, it said, would be punished under Section 51-60 of the Disaster Management Act, as well under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and other provisions.Last week, the state’s Manohar Lal Khattar government had initially announced a ban only on the sale of imported firecrackers, which, on Friday, was modified to all firecrackers. Then, on Sunday, Khattar said people can burst crackers for two hours.Also Read | Haryana bans sale of firecrackersA number of states, including Delhi and West Bengal, have announced a total ban on firecrackers in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and air pollution. Maharashtra, on the other hand, has not announced a ban but chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has urged citizens to exercise discipline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-draw-a-balance-haryana-allows-bursting-of-firecrackers-for-2-hours-on-diwali/story-rlEnziRIYrVAGIYNbB8bCL.html
09-11-2020||India||Delhi HC notice to media houses, journalists over coverage of Sushant Singh death case||The Delhi High Court on Monday issued notices to several media houses and journalists over their coverage of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rapjut’s death case. Republic TV, Times Now, their editors Arnab Goswami and Navika Kumar are among those who were served with the high court’s notice. The court was hearing the petition filed by 34 Bollywood production houses seeking restrain on the content aired by the media houses. The court has also asked the defendants to ensure that no defamatory content is displayed on their channels or uploaded on their social media handles.Justice Rajiv Shakdher said, “In the meanwhile, the counsel of the defendants (channels) have also ensured me that they would follow the program code and the rules framed under the Cable TV Regulation Act.” A host of leading Bollywood filmmakers had in October filed a lawsuit against “media trials of Bollywood personalities”, for calling them names and painting the entire “Bollywood as criminals” and sought action against them in the fallout of the Rajput death case investigation.The plea filed through DSK Legal had also sought directions to the various social media platforms to restrain them from publishing the remarks of these journalists which is ultimately leading to media trials of Bollywood personalities and interfering with the right to privacy of persons associated with Bollywood.According to the petition, the suit was filed due to the channels using derogatory words for Bollywood such as “dirt”, “filth”, “scum”, “druggies” and expressions such as “it is Bollywood where the dirt needs to be cleaned”, “all the perfumes of Arabia cannot take away the stench and the stink of this filth and scum of the underbelly of Bollywood”, “this is the dirtiest industry in the country”, and “cocaine and LSD drenched Bollywood”.The prominent petitioners include The Film & Television Producers Guild Of India (PGI), The Cine & TV Artistes’ Association (CINTAA), Indian Film and TV Producers Council (IFTPC), Screenwriters Association (SWA), Aamir Khan Productions, Ad-Labs Films, Ajay DevgnFflims, Andolan Films, Anil Kapoor Film and Communication Network, Arbaaz Khan Productions, Ashutosh Gowariker Productions, BSK Network and Entertainment, Cape of Good Films, Clean Slate Filmz, Dharma Productions, Emmay Entertainment & Motion Pictures, Excel Entertainment , Filmkraft Productions, Hope Production, Kabir Khan Films, Luv Films, Macguffin Pictures, Nadiadwala Grandson Entertainment, One India Stories, R.S. Entertainment (Ramesh Sippy Entertainment),Rakeysh Omprakash Mehra Pictures, Red Chillies Entertainment, Reel Life Productions, Reliance Big Entertainment, Rohit Shetty Picturez, Roy Kapur Films, Salman Khan Films, Sikhya Entertainment, Sohail Khan Productions, Tiger Baby Digital, Vinod Chopra Films, Vishal Bhardwaj Pictures and Yashraj Films.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-high-court-issues-notices-to-several-media-houses-journalists-over-their-coverage-of-sushant-singh-rajput-s-death-case/story-vbUr8Nnreicni1Pu0FzMBL.html
09-11-2020||India||In UP, app-based selection of banking correspondent Sakhis in final stages||The Uttar Pradesh government has received 2.17 lakh applications for induction of 58,000 banking correspondent Sakhis (BC Sakhis) in Uttar Pradesh, officials said.The mobile app-based recruitment process for women in rural India amid the Covid-19 pandemic is the first initiative of its kind.The department of rural development began the selection process in June and soon would begin to conduct interviews on mobile phones, said Manoj Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary, department of rural development, Uttar Pradesh. The candidates made their applications on the mobile app and the department would interview the shortlisted candidates on the app itself.Once appointed, BC Sakhis will take banking to the doorsteps of families in their respective villages.“On May 21, the chief minister had announced a proposal for the induction of 58,000 banking correspondent Sakhis (BC Sakhis) for each of UP’s gram panchayats (GPs). BC Sakhis would become a one-stop solution for all banking services at the doorstep of the poor. This would be significant in the backdrop of 90,000 unresolved complaints with banks and would mean increased access to financial and banking services,” said Singh.Singh also said: “As many as 82% of 2.17 lakh women applicants are in the age group of 18 to 32 years and 70% of the candidates already have access to smartphones — an important tool for executing their work on a day-to-day basis, once they get appointed.”The government envisages channeling government services (subsidies, entitlements, pensions etc) and direct benefit transfer (DBT) payouts through these BC Sakhis in the villages, besides taking up a range of banking operations.“Once selected, the Indian Institute of Banking & Finance will train the BC Sakhis before they begin working. They will also have uniforms designed by the National Institute of Fashion Technology,” said Singh.The UP government had launched a mobile app for the entire recruitment process — from application to interviews and final selection. Never before has the government used such a method for statewide selection and appointment procedure in rural UP.“BC Sakhis will be the pivot of the State Rural Livelihood Mission’s financial inclusion programmes in the rural area. They will also encourage digital transactions in villages,” said Singh.For the applications, the candidates fed relevant details on the app, answered some questions there, uploaded documents, photographs and Aadhaar card images.Now, the department is shortlisting candidates for video interviews.For appointment as BC Sakhi in a gram panchayat, the candidate must be the resident of the same gram panchayat where she would work. A member of a self-help group (SHG) in a village who was among the first one to join it and played a vital role in the running of SHG would get preference.Once selected, a Sakhi would get Rs 4,000 per month as honorarium and one-time Rs 75,000 easy installment loan for tech hardware and installation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-up-app-based-selection-of-banking-correspondent-sakhis-in-final-stages/story-i5zBKtd5xUuchuh4pG41iL.html
09-11-2020||India||NGT bans sale, use of firecrackers in Delhi-NCR till November 30||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has imposed a blanket ban on the sale and use of firecrackers in Delhi-national capital region (NCR) from the midnight of November 9 to that of November 30.In a 58-page order, which was issued on Monday, the NGT has said that the ban would apply to all cities or towns in the country, where the average of ambient air quality during November, as per the available data of last year, fall in the “poor” or “very poor” category.Air quality index (AQI) between 201 and 300 and from 301 to 400 is considered to be in the “poor” and “very poor” category, respectively.In cities or towns, where AQI is “moderate” – between 101 and 200 -- or below, only green crackers will be allowed to be sold. The timings for the use and bursting of firecrackers would be restricted to only two hours during festivals such as Diwali, which would be celebrated on Saturday (November 14), as specified by the state, the order stated. In other states, the ban and restrictions would be optional, it added. The chief secretaries and directors-general of police (DGPs) of all states and union territories (UTs) have been directed to circulate an appropriate order and enforcement guidelines to all district magistrates (DMs) and superintendents of police (SPs), pollution control boards etc, the order said.The tribunal has directed the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and the state pollution control boards to regularly monitor the AQI between November 9 and 30 and upload the recorded data on their respective websites.CPCB would compile information on the subject, including the status of compliance of this order from all the states and UTs, it added.“Having regard to increased adverse health impact of pollution by use of crackers on the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), aggravating risk to lives and health which has led to ban by the governments of Odisha, Rajasthan, Sikkim, Chandigarh (a UT), Delhi Pollution Control Committee and by the Calcutta high court on the sale and use of firecrackers, applying the ‘sustainable development’ and the ‘precautionary’ principles, a case is made out for issuing directions for banning the sale and use of firecrackers between November 9 and 30…” the order stated.The tribunal ordered the ban while hearing pleas against the bursting of firecrackers during Diwali because of its potential to aggravate the severity of the raging Covid-19 outbreak in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ngt-bans-firecracker-sale-in-delhi-ncr-till-november-30/story-0Iw8jATDjgVWAyr3C3ptTK.html
09-11-2020||India||Union minister Kiren Rijiju lauds UP police for busting Khelo India racket||Union sports minister Kiren Rijiju has lauded very quick action by the Uttar Pradesh police in busting a racket where dubious elements extorted money from athletes by promising them their participation in the Khelo India Youth Games 2021.The police arrested three men in connection with the racket on Friday.In a tweet, Rijiju said he was “proud of UP Police for their fast and professional approach in handling any kind of cases.”“These criminals were fleecing from common people in the name of Khelo India,” he added in the tweet. The minister’s tweet was in response to a UP Police tweet congratulating the cyber cell of the Agra police on busting the racket.“We congratulate cyber cell @agrapolice for busting a racket involved in swindling sportsperson through a fake FB page Khelo India. The accused were extorting money from people by promising them participation in khelo India games 2021,” the UP police tweeted.The action was taken after Sports Authority of India (SAI) lodged an FIR. Three cell phones, a laptop and Rs 25,000 were recovered from the accused in this case. The racket came to light after SAI issued an ‘alert’ against a fake advertisement. Those arrested were identified as Sanjay Pratap Singh, Ravi and Anuj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-minister-kiren-rijiju-lauds-up-police-for-busting-khelo-india-racket/story-eRM9b8ra0mRyHWlxvt7joM.html
09-11-2020||India||In Bihar’s Madhepura, a village mourns solider killed in LoC clash in Kashmir||A pall of gloom descended in Parmanpur village of Bihar’s Madhepura district on Monday morning as news spread of the death of Captain Ashutosh Kumar in a gun battle with terrorists on the Line of Control in the Machil sector of north Kashmir’s Kupwara on Sunday.Three other security personnel and three terrorists were also killed in the encounter.Twenty four-year-old Captain Ashutosh of 18 Madras Regiment was an alumnus of Sainik School, Bhubaneswar.His neighbour Roop Narayan said, “We got information around 7.30 pm that Ashutosh has sacrificed his life. He joined the Army in 2018 and was posted in Kashmir for the last nine months. Ashutosh’s father Ravindra Yadav posted in the veterinary hospital while his mother Geeta Devi is a housewife.” His two sisters - Khusboo Kumari and Ansu Kumari – were inconsolable. “We have lost everything. We never thought such a day would come,” said his elder sister, tightly holding his photograph. “I am sad that I have lost my lonely son at a young age, but I am proud that he sacrificed his life for the nation. And that’s what he was trained for,” the fallen soldier’s father said.“I have lost everything today. I talked to him last Friday and he told me that he was well and everything was fine there,” his mother said. Vishal Vaibah, who was Captain Ashutosh’s junior at Sainik School told HT over phone that he was a brilliant student who could have easily cracked NEET or JEE, but his patriotism and love for the motherland made him join NDA . “From there, he went to IMA and was finally with the 18 Madras Regiment,” he said.Colonel Rajesh Kalia, defence spokesman at Srinagar said that three others killed in the gunfight were Havildar Ch Praveen Kumar, Rifleman Ryada Maheshwar, both from 18 Madras regiment and a BSF trooper identified as Constable Sudip Kumar of West Tripura.A huge quantity of arms and ammunition including assault two rifles, two magazines and 60 rounds, a pistol 1 with two magazines, and 29 rounds besides a radio set were recovered from the slain militants. Opposition leader Tejashi Yadav expressed deep grief over the demise of Captain Ashutosh. “The sacrifice made by Captain Ashutosh will not go in vain and he will always be remembered for his courage and bravery,” he said. Captain Ashutosh’s body will be brought to his native village on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-bihar-s-madhepura-a-village-mourns-solider-killed-in-loc-clash-in-kashmir/story-2tKQXM17Fykc9ySl3iMKlO.html
09-11-2020||India||PM Narendra Modi inaugurates development projects worth Rs 614 crore in Varanasi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated and laid the foundation stone of various development projects in Uttar Pradesh’s Varanasi on Monday via video conferencing.The event, which was joined by Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, marked the inauguration of 16 schemes worth over Rs 219 crore and the foundation of 14 projects worth over Rs 394 crore.The projects include Sarnath Light and Sound show, upgradation of Lal Bahadur Shastri Hospital Ramnagar, sewerage related works, infrastructure facilities for protection and conservation of cows, multipurpose seed storehouse, agriculture produce warehouse of 100 MT, IPDS phase 2, a housing complex for players in Sampurnanand Stadium, Varanasi city smart lighting work, along with 105 Anganwadi Kendras and 102 Gau Ashray Kendras. Modi also laid the foundation stone of projects including the redevelopment of Dashashwamedh Ghat and Khidkiya Ghat, barracks for PAC police force, redevelopment of certain wards of Kashi, parking facility along with redevelopment of park in Beniya Bagh, upgradation of the multi-purpose hall in Girija Devi Sanskritik Sankul, repair work of roads in the city and development of tourist places.The Prime Minister will also interact with the beneficiaries of these projects during the event. Locals and party workers joined the event at six locations - the Circuit House, Dashashwamedh Ghat, Shultankeshwar Temple, Lal Bahadur Shastri International Airport and Trade Facilitation Centre - in the city. The local unit of the Congress had objected to the unveiling ceremony of the projects citing violation of model code of conduct for the legislative council polling to elect graduate constituency members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-inaugurates-development-projects-worth-rs-614-crore-in-varanasi/story-zXx3qlxcEVdnuisfSR6CYI.html
09-11-2020||India||Lawyer, kin remain perched atop water tank to protest brother’s kidnapping||A lawyer, who along with five members of his family had climbed atop a water tank in Beli area here on Saturday morning alleging police inaction into the alleged kidnapping of his brother and grabbing of his land in his native Hardoi district by a muscleman, refused to come down till late Sunday night despite repeated appeals, police said.Additional district magistrate (city) AK Kanaujiya talked to the lawyer several times. The ADM and the district magistrate of Hardoi also spoke with the lawyer and promised him all help. However, the lawyer Vijay Pratap, in his 40s, did not heed to their requests and demanded a CBI inquiry into his matter.Pratap claimed to have made several complaints regarding the land grab by a muscleman and alleged that no action was taken as the goon’s brother is a policeman posted at the office of the deputy inspector general of police (DIG). The lawyer said he and his family were on a hunger strike which they would continue unless their demands were fulfilled. He claimed that he was carrying a large container of petrol and warned of self-immolation if any attempt was made to bring them down forcibly. Meanwhile, a net was placed near the tank as officials desperately tried to convince the family to come down promising to address all their issues. Unable to convince them, the officials provided them water, blankets and power bank for keeping their mobile phone charged so that they continue communication.After climbing the water tank, the lawyer also made a video and posted it on social media.The lawyer told reporters that he had made the video stating his 13-point charter of demands to draw the attention of the chief minister and the Prime Minister towards his plight.Inspector, Cantonment police station, Neeraj Walia, who has been at the site shortly after the drama began, said constant efforts were being made to convince the lawyer and his kin to come down.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lawyer-kin-remain-perched-atop-water-tank-to-protest-brother-s-kidnapping/story-WBi9YSvLcq2NSj7qe7lwgJ.html
09-11-2020||India||Rajnath Singh to inaugurate model of anti-satellite missile system at DRDO HQ||Defence minister Rajnath Singh will inaugurate a model of the anti-satellite missile system, which is seen as a symbol of national technological advancement, at the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) headquarters in the national capital today.Earlier, DRDO had successfully conducted an Anti-Satellite (A-SAT) missile test ‘Mission Shakti’ from Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Island in Odisha on March 27, 2019.A DRDO-developed A-SAT Missile successfully engaged an Indian orbiting target satellite in Low Earth Orbit (LEO) in a ‘Hit to Kill’ mode. The interceptor missile was a three-stage missile with two solid rocket boosters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-to-inaugurate-model-of-anti-satellite-missile-system-at-drdo-hq/story-duKmTURgNGsC0kvsl1m0SO.html
09-11-2020||India||UP to develop Vindhyavasini Temple Corridor in Vindhyachal||The Uttar Pradesh (UP) government has decided to develop the Vindhyavasini Mandir Corridor at Vindhyachal in Mirzapur district. The Vindhyavasini corridor is modelled on the lines of Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in Varanasi. It will have a 50-feet wide parikrama path, or circumambulation route, around the shrine of Goddess Vindhyavasini.The UP cabinet had on October 30 approved the decision to develop the religious corridor.The Yogi Adityanath-led government seeks to develop religious tourism in the eastern UP region. Also read | Uttar Pradesh govt to launch website for first-ever virtual Deepotsav in AyodhyaThe Vindhyavasini temple is surrounded by buildings and narrow lanes and pilgrims have to walk through them while circumambulating the temple. “A 50-feet wide Vindhyavasini temple corridor will be developed on over 2,500 square metres of area around the shrine,” said a tourism department official. “Around 90 residential and commercial buildings in the area will have to make way to develop the corridor, which will be equipped with all facilities. There is a plan to widen all the roads in Vindhyachal,” the official added. Vindhyachal is famous for the Vindhyavasini temple, which attracts pilgrims from far and wide. The religious congregation peaks during Navratri, a nine-day period, when Hindus offer prayers to the goddess. Plans are also afoot to attract tourists in to picturesque waterfalls in the district such as Vindham, Kusiyara and Tada. Kirtiman Srivastava, regional tourism officer, said the Vindhyavasini temple corridor would be grand and magnificent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-to-develop-vindhyavasini-temple-corridor-in-vindhyachal/story-syRNztDigTvR58DaA2wycI.html
09-11-2020||India||After Bihar, Congress shifts focus to other poll-bound states; to hold protests over farm laws in Tamil Nadu||After Bihar, the Congress is set to shift its focus on states where assembly elections are due in March-April next year with former party chief Rahul Gandhi likely to address a farmers’ rally in Tamil Nadu soon. Along with Tamil Nadu, assembly elections will be held in West Bengal, Kerala, Assam and Puducherry. Gandhi will address the farmers’ rally in Tamil Nadu against the Centre’s three new farm legislations, a party functionary said. The Tamil Nadu Congress has identified 150 places across the state for such protests, he added. Tractor rallies will also be taken out as part of the protest programme. Confirming the development, Tamil Nadu Congress president KS Alagiri said Gandhi will address the rally at the conclusion of protests and the dates are being worked out. Also Read: Centre says open for talks with farmers on farm laws ahead of another protestHe said the new legislations were inimical to the interests of the farmers and alleged that corporates will have a greater say in fixing the price of produce, adding the rallies will aim to educate farmers about the problems of the three farm laws and tell the people how the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is anti-farmer. Parliament had, in September, approved the Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020. The Congress, many other opposition parties and several farmers organisations have been protesting against the recent farm legislations, alleging that these will harm the interests of farmers and benefit corporates, a claim denied by the government. The Centre has asserted that these new laws will be beneficial for farmers and will increase their income. Farmers in many parts of the country, especially in Punjab and Haryana, have also opposed these laws. Congress-ruled states have passed their own laws to counter the contentious legislation enacted by Parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-bihar-congress-shifts-focus-to-other-poll-bound-states-to-hold-protests-over-farm-laws-in-tamil-nadu/story-w2CtBcizNS7qiYzlbJR5vL.html
09-11-2020||India||Marginal increase in number of Covid-19 cases takes India’s tally to 8,553,657||India’s coronavirus disease (Covid-19) tally reached 8,553,657 on Monday after 45,903 new cases were recorded, according to Union health ministry.The country recorded 490 new fatalities, which took the death toll to 1,26,611.Monday’s caseload ( a count of the number of Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours) is marginally up from yesterday’s 45,674 infections.The case fatality rate stands at 1.48 per cent.The number of active cases of Covid-19 remained below 6 lakh for the 11th consecutive day on Monday. The number of active cases dropped to 5,09,673 which comprises about six per cent of the total caseload, according to health ministry data. India’s Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29.According to Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 11,77,36,791 samples have been tested up to November 7 with 11,94,487 samples being tested on Saturday.Meanwhile, India’s cumulative Covid-19 positivity rate - the number of samples that tests positive out of the total number of samples tested for a disease - is steadily declining, according to the government.The government data shows that in past three weeks, the positivity rate has come down to 7.23% on November 8 from 7.94% on October 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/marginal-increase-in-number-of-covid-19-cases-takes-india-s-tally-to-8-553-657/story-YEpSPTlbZCons0LvuYCsrJ.html
09-11-2020||India||EC to hold all-party meeting today for 2021 Bengal assembly election||The Election Commission of India will meet representatives of all political parties in West Bengal on Monday through video conferencing to set the ball rolling for the 2021 assembly election in the state, a poll panel official said. “The meeting has been called primarily to discuss poll preparations in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. After the Bihar elections it is clear that the pandemic won’t come in the way of holding elections. Precautionary measures need to be adopted to prevent the spread,” the official said. The chief electoral officer of West Bengal is also expected to hold another meeting with district officials soon, officials said. “There are chances that representatives of the ECI from Delhi will also be present in the virtual meeting with district officials. The main objective is to take stock and assess the poll preparedness in the times of pandemic,” said a senior official. With the Durga Puja over, the political parties have also entered into election mode. Union home minister Amit Shah had come on a two-day visit to the state to take stock of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s organisational preparedness in the state. While the ruling Trinamool Congress, led by its supremo Mamata Banerjee, would be fighting for its third term, the BJP, which has made impressive gains in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls clinching 18 of the 42 seats, is looking to wrest power in the assembly election. The Election Commission is expected to publish the integrated draft electoral roll on November 18, while the final electoral roll would be published in January 2021. “Groundwork is going on. We now have a model (Bihar) in front of us and the experiences we gather in Bihar will help us in holding the polls in Bengal. Pandemic will be a big challenge this year apart from the other challenges of holding a free and fair election,” said an EC official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-to-hold-all-party-meeting-today-for-2021-bengal-assembly-election/story-oS8Y8aTtcbj4sEaB54ZO4M.html
09-11-2020||India||600 kg firecrackers seized in Delhi; 7 held||The Delhi Police has arrested seven people and seized around 600 kilograms of firecrackers being sold illegally in the national capital from their possession, officials said on Sunday. Ahead of Diwali, the Delhi government had on Thursday decided to ban firecrackers, including green crackers, in the city till November 30 to combat pollution amid the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the city. Till Sunday, cases were registered against seven people for illegally selling crackers in the national capital, police said. “Police recovered 593.224 kg of firecrackers and arrested seven people. Also, eight cases were registered in connection with bursting of crackers . One person was arrested and 1 kg of fireworks were recovered from him,” Additional PRO of Delhi Police Anil Mittal said. All licences issued for sale of firecrackers have been suspended and further action will be taken on NGT directions, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/600-kg-firecrackers-seized-in-delhi-7-held/story-x88WV71EefMK33hnBNWbVL.html
09-11-2020||India||Arnab Goswami arrest: Bombay High court to pronounce order on interim bail plea today||A two-judge division bench of the Bombay high court will on Monday pronounce its order on a bail plea filed by Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami, who was arrested last Wednesday in connection with a 2018 alleged abetment to suicide case.The bench, comprising Justices SS Shinde and MS Karnik, had reserved its order in the case on Saturday, saying it would pass it “as early as possible.” However, a notice issued late Saturday night on the court’s website said the bench would pronounce its order at 3pm on November 9.Also Read | No immediate relief for Arnab Goswami as HC reserves order on bailThe bench had been hearing Goswami’s plea for three days, including Saturday, after he filed an interim bail plea there, calling his November 4 arrest “illegal”. Goswami, along with two other accused in the case - Firoz Shaikh and Neetish Sarda - was, on the day of his arrest, sent to 14-day judicial custody by chief judicial magistrate (CJM) Alibaug, rejecting Maharashtra Police’s plea for police custody.Also on Monday, a sessions court in Alibaug will take up Maharashtra Police’ plea against the CJM’s order.On Sunday, Goswami was transferred from a makeshift quarantine centre in Alibaug, where he had been kept, to Taloja Central Jail in Navi Mumbai after he was allegedly found using a cellphone. A video shared by Republic TV showed Goswami alleging he was assaulted at the quarantine centre, and claiming there was threat to his life.Also Read | Not being allowed to talk to lawyers, says Arnab Goswami as he was being shifted to Taloja jailGoswami has been arrested in a case which pertains to death by alleged suicide of interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother Kumud in May 2018, nearly a year after Republic TV was launched. In a suicide note, Naik had accused Goswami, Shaikh and Sarda of non-payment of dues amounting to Rs 5.4 crore, because of which, Naik wrote, he was being forced to take such a step.While the case was earlier closed by the Raigad Police, Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh ordered a reinvestigation in it earlier this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arnab-goswami-arrest-bombay-high-court-to-pronounce-order-on-interim-bail-plea-today/story-r5wErhqhF1Zupd7DwvEbzN.html
09-11-2020||India||PM Modi to unveil projects worth Rs 614 cr in Varanasi today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate and lay the foundation of 30 projects worth Rs 614 crore in Varanasi via video conferencing on Monday, a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader said on Sunday. At a press conference on Sunday, Kashi region BJP president Mahesh Chandra Srivastava said that PM Modi will inaugurate 16 schemes worth over Rs 219 crore and lay the foundation of 14 projects worth over Rs 394 core. BJP unit chief in Uttar Pradesh Swatantra Dev Singh and four ministers will attend the ceremony at different venues in the city, he said.Srivastava said the transformation taking place in Kashi since 2014 was visible on the ground, He underlined that there was a big difference between the Varanasi of 2020 and the situation in the city pre-2014.As the local MP, PM Modi had left no stone unturned to ensure all-round development of Varanasi, he said. The cleanliness mission had made lanes and ghats clean, he added. Six places have been selected for the live telecast of Monday’s programme in the city. Locals and party workers will join the event at the Circuit House, Dashashwamedh Ghat, Shultankeshwar Temple, Lal Bahadur Shastri International Airport and Trade Facilitation Centre. Navratan Rathi, Kashi region BJP media in-charge, said state BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh, minister in-charge of Varanasi Ashutosh Tandon, minister of state (independent charge) Ravindra Jaiswal and the party’s Kashi region president Mahesh Chand Srivastava, will remain present at the Circuit House. Similarly, UP BJP co-incharge Sunil Ojha and Cantt MLA Saurabh Srivastava will be present at the commissioner’s auditorium.Minister of state (independent charge) for tourism and religious affairs Neelkanth Tiwari, along with party workers, will be present at Dashashwamedh Ghat. Cabinet minister Anil Rajbhar will be present at the venue of the Trade Facilitation Centre, Bada Lalpur.MLAs Avadhesh Singh and Surendra Singh will attend the function at the airport and Shultankeshwar temple respectively.Among the projects that Modi will inaugurate are an upgraded Lal Bahadur Shastri Hospital, Ramnagar, infrastructure facilities for protection and conservation of cows, multipurpose seed storehouse, agriculture produce warehouse of 100 MT, Integrated Power Development Scheme phase 2, housing complex for sportspersons at Sampurnanand Stadium, Varanasi city smart lighting work and 105 anganwadi kendras.The local unit of the Congress has objected to the unveiling ceremony of the projects due to the model code of conduct for the legislative council polling to elect graduate constituency members. Congress leader Ajay Rai says that the so-called developmental projects unveiling ceremony is a violation of the model code of conduct. The administration should stop it. A Congress delegation on Saturday submitted a memorandum to the divisional commissioner Deepak Agarwal asking him to stop the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-unveil-projects-worth-rs-614-cr-in-varanasi-today/story-m3VhtrFwWHzqUE8QXDBuVN.html
09-11-2020||India||Virtual lamps, virtual hands: All you need to know about the online ‘Deepotsav’ celebration in Ayodhya||With ‘festival of lights’ Diwali just five days away, the Uttar Pradesh government is set to launch a website to allow people to take part in a virtual ‘Deepotsav’ celebration on November 13.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be a part of this virtual celebration which will take place in Ayodhya’s Sri Ramlala Darbar. While the state government has decided to light up over 5,50,000 physical diyas (lamps) on this occasion, people have been invited to take part in the ceremony virtually. Due to the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic in India, several restrictions have been laid to ensure the celebration is carried out smoothly.Started by chief minister Yogi Adityanath in 2017, Ayodhya Deepotsav witnessed coming together of residents and volunteers lighting up a record 176,000 diyas. In 2019, this record was broken after 551,000 diyas were used for this occasion.However, this year’s ceremony is going to be special, coming months after the laying of the foundation stone for Ram Temple in the month of August.Here is what you need to know about the ‘Vitual Deepotsav’ in Ayodhya this year: 1. Participants will be allowed to light a virtual lamp in front of a photograph of Lord Rama, with an option to choose different lampstands.2. Participants will have to choose the lamp stand of one’s choice, steel-coloured, brass-coloured or any other.3. The virtual hands which will light the diya would also vary on the basis of the participant’s gender.4. Right after the diyas have been lightened up, a ‘thank you’ digital letter from the chief minister, carrying the picture of Ram Lalla, will be issued.Chief minister Adityanath apart from issuing instructions for this year’s Deepotsav highlighted that there should be no violation of Covid-19 related protocols. He would be performing the aarti of Ram Lalla at the Ram Janmabhoomi premises.Also Read: NGT widens ambit of firecracker pollution cases beyond NCR, notices to 18 states, UTsMeanwhile, as India is gearing up to celebrate Diwali, several state governments have decided to ban firecrackers amid the Covid-19 outbreak in the country which has infected over 8.5 million so far.It has been said that the increase in air pollution levels due to the use of firecrackers will also increase the spread of the coronavirus disease.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/virtual-lamps-virtual-hands-all-you-need-to-know-about-the-online-deepotsav-celebration-in-ayodhya/story-jbra6AgUddKdU25PasV4wL.html
09-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Delhi’s air quality remains ‘severe’ and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan TimesDelhi’s air quality remains in severe category for five days in a rowThe national capital’s air quality index (AQI) remained in the “severe” category for the fifth consecutive day on Monday morning. The AQI on Monday at 6am was 459, which was higher than the previous day’s 24-hour average of 416. Read more 15th Finance Commission submits its report today: Key things to knowThe NK Singh-headed 15th Finance Commission, the body that decides the shares of the Centre and states in all taxes and revenues of the nation, will submit its final report to President Ram Nath Kovind today (November 9). The report is unlikely to be made public anytime soon and will possibly be tabled in Parliament, along with an action-taken report, by finance minister Nirmala Sithramaram when she presents the Union budget next year on February 1. Read moreAhead of the NGT order on firecracker ban, here’s what different states have doneAmid the ongoing festival season and rising cases of Covid-19, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) is expected to pronounce its order on firecracker ban on Monday. Reserving its order on November 5, it had issued notice to Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF) and four state governments on whether use of firecrackers be banned from November 7-30 in the interest of public health and environment. Read moreFiroz Nadiadwala on wife Shabana Saeed’s arrest by NCB: ‘The truth will be out’Producer Firoz Nadiadwala has responded to the arrest of his wife, Shabana Saeed, on Sunday by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB). While he did not comment on the drugs charges, he seemed to suggest that they were false. He said that ‘the truth will be out’. Read moreGoogle Stadia may soon get support for Safari in iOS 14Google launched its cloud-based game streaming service, Stadia, in 2019. At the time, the service was available on select Android devices. Over time, the company has not only included support for more Android devices, but it has also Web and Chromecast. Now, word is that the company is gearing to bring the gaming service to Apple devices. Read more IPL 2020: ‘Has become one of my favourites’ - Brian Lara names six most impressive young Indian batsmen of Indian Premier LeagueIn an interview with Hindustan Times, former West Indies captain Brian Lara was asked to throw some lights on the young Indian talent on display. The legendary left-hander named six young Indian batsmen who impressed him the most. Read more Ever wonder how astronauts wash hair in space? This video has the answerWhen people asked you, “What do you want to be when you grow up?” as a kid, did you ever say astronaut? Did you ever watch 2001: A Space Odyssey and wish you could embark on a galactic adventure too? Did you read The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy and pretend that you were Arthur Dent yourself? If you answered a ‘yes’ to any or all of the questions asked above, then you may identify as a ‘space enthusiast’, and thus, may thoroughly enjoy this recording. Watch hereBiden & China-Pak: How will new US President deal with terror, expansionism?:One of the highlights of Donald Trump’s Presidency was the confrontation with China on various accounts - from trade to territory. Beijing will continue to be one of the biggest challenges facing US President-elect Joe Biden. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-delhi-s-air-quality-remains-severe-and-all-the-latest-news/story-zXNGSUTsEtnSkmogwBVJeP.html
09-11-2020||India||Now, drive over Tehri lake on India’s longest motorable suspension bridge||Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat inaugurated the country’s longest single-lane motorable suspension bridge in Tehri Garhwal district to mark the state’s 21st foundation day on Sunday.Rawat inaugurated the 725-metre long Dobra-Chanti suspension bridge in the presence of cabinet ministers Subodh Uniyal, Dhan Singh Rawat and other officials. The bridge, opened for the public from Sunday, has been built in 14 years over the Tehri lake with a cost of ₹2.95 crore. It would help connect Pratap Nagar town with Tehri Garhwal district headquarters.“The inauguration of the bridge is a significant and historic moment for the state. It will not only connect the people of Pratap Nagar town with the district headquarters but will also open avenues for development,” Rawat said.“The bridge over the Tehri lake also reminds us of the sacrifices the people of old Tehri Garhwal made to pave the way for the Tehri dam project. Today, we are extremely proud that the project is not only important for the state but the whole country. It will be providing power as well as water for irrigation,” said Rawat.Terming the Tehri lake a major tourist destination, Rawat said, “Tehri lake with this new bridge will attract many tourists in the near future.”The construction work of the bridge had started in 2006 and was supposed to be completed in 2008. However, it witnessed several hiccups such as failure of design or lack of budget leading to the delay. The bridge will help more than three lakh people to reach the district headquarters in Tehri quickly.During his address, Rawat also spoke about the works done by his government on various issues after coming to power in 2017.“From day one of coming to power, we have vowed to fight corruption which is the only thorn in the development of Uttarakhand. We have so far nabbed over 250 people accused of corruption and are working towards giving a corruption free development,” said Rawat.“Apart from this, we have also worked significantly in health services. In 2017 when we came to power there were only 1,034 doctors in the state and today the number is about 2,400. We have also worked for the development of farmers by providing them interest free loans,” he said.Rawat also urged the people of the state to not take the Covid-19 pandemic lightly and follow all the necessary precautions.“Many people are thinking that the pandemic is over. It is wrong as it is still infecting a lot of people. We need to take all the necessary precautions, including wearing masks and maintaining social distancing,” said Rawat.Meanwhile, the opposition Congress, reacting to CM’s claims of providing corruption free development in the state alleged that the whole government is ‘neck deep into corruption.’Pritam Singh, party state president, said, “What CM Rawat is saying on corruption is an absolute farce. The whole government is being accused of indulging in corruption directly or indirectly every other day. Recently, the HC, too, ordered a CBI inquiry into charges of corruption against the CM. Why did he approach the Supreme Court against it if he says that there is no corruption?”“As far as his claims on improving the health services are concerned, people are seeing it in this pandemic. The government has failed to boost the testing facilities and the people are suffering without proper treatment. He also did nothing on his promise of farmer loan waiver,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/now-drive-over-tehri-lake-on-india-s-longest-motorable-suspension-bridge/story-q5p5s5mvxwsxNMLJoL8GFO.html
09-11-2020||India||TMC, BJP race to help Bengal tribal family that hosted Amit Shah for lunch||The poor tribal family that hosted Union home minister Amit Shah for lunch on November 5 at their home at Chaturdihi village in Bengal’s Bankura district has been receiving more guests and unexpected offers of help since Saturday. Leaders from the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) as well as officers from the district administration have called on Bibhishan Hansda at least thrice in 48 hours with the offer to get the best treatment for his teenage daughter Rachana who is suffering from diabetes. The reason: Hansda had briefly talked to Shah about her. TMC leaders have also started claiming that Hansda, a marginal farmer, had always been a party supporter but the tribal man has claimed to be an apolitical person with no connection with either of the parties. “Had amazing Bengali food at Shri Vivishan Hansda ji’s home in Chaturdihi village. No words can express their warmth and hospitality,” Shah had tweeted on Thursday after leaving the village. TMC leaders made a counter move soon after this. “Reality behind @AmitShah Ji’s token meals - he used ST Community & the concerned family as political tool & didn’t even bother to speak to them for a moment. Mr Home Minister, did you come here only for a photo-op? #BengalAsksAmitShah,” tweeted Abhishek Banerjee, TMC Lok Sabha MP and nephew of chief minister Mamata Banerjee. The TMC youth leader also attached the screenshot of a news item published by a Bengali daily which said that Hansda wanted to talk to Shah but did not get an opportunity although they sat beside each other during the lunch. Hansda said he did talk to Shah about his daughter but the minister could not understand Bengali. “He spoke in Hindi. Since neither of us could follow each other’s language people present at the spot explained to the Union home minister what I was saying,” he said. On Saturday, Sonai Mukherjee, a TMC leader and member of the Bankura zilla parishad (district council) visited Hansda’s home with gifts. “It was a casual visit. We wanted to know how the family was doing. The gifts were part of the customary Durga Puja greetings,” she said. On Sunday morning, BJP’s Bankura Lok Sabha MP Subhas Sarkar, who is also a doctor, called on Hansda and had a long conversation with his daughter. The MP checked her medical records and told the family that his party will ensure the best treatment for Rachana. Sarkar wrote in a tweet in Bengla that he went to Hansda’s home under instructions from Shah who wants the party to take charge of Rachana’s treatment and take her to AIIMS if required. The MP also posted photographs of his visit. Shortly after Sarkar left, the local community block development officer, Biplab Kumar Roy, visited the family with the same offer. “The class 12 student has been under treatment for a long time. The government wants to ensure that it continues unhindered since the family is poor,” Roy told the local media. During the day, lawmaker and minister from the district, Swapan Santra, claimed that Hansda had always been a supporter of the TMC and the party had arranged for the treatment in the past. “I am not part of any organization. If anyone takes pity and offers to help I will accept it but it should not be part of politics,” said Hansda. Significantly, when Shah was having lunch at Hansda’s home on Thursday the TMC government made a surprise move at Naxalbari in Darjeeling district. Gita Mahali, the poor tribal woman who played host to Shah and cooked lunch for him during a similar visit in April 2017, was appointed as special home guard at Naxalbari police station. She was given her appointment letter. “The BJP did nothing for the family in these three years so the government came forward,” said Ranjan Sarkar, the TMC district president. On Wednesday, Banerjee also announced that the government will form separate organizations to look after the welfare of different backward caste communities. BJP state general secretary Sayantan Basu said, “If one visit by our Union home minister can make so much difference to the lives of poor people we will all visit their homes. After all, welfare of the people is what the BJP wants.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-bjp-race-to-help-bengal-tribal-family-that-hosted-amit-shah-for-lunch/story-4Wcl8BAcwuDt07vZRFioXN.html
09-11-2020||India||Ahead of the NGT order on firecracker ban, here’s what different states have done||Amid the ongoing festival season and rising cases of Covid-19, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) is expected to pronounce its order on firecracker ban on Monday.Reserving its order on November 5, it had issued notice to Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF) and four state governments on whether use of firecrackers be banned from November 7-30 in the interest of public health and environment.A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice A K Goel had sought response from MoEF, Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), Delhi Pollution Control Committee, Police Commissioner of Delhi and the governments of Delhi, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan. The tribunal was hearing a plea by Indian Social Responsibility Network seeking action against pollution by use of firecrackers in NCR during the time air quality is unsatisfactory with potential of severity of Covid-19 pandemic.Different states have made different rules with respect to bursting and selling of firecrackers. Ahead of the NGT order, here’s a look at what various states have done:1. Delhi: The Delhi government has imposed a blanket ban on firecrackers, including those branded green between November 7 and 30.Also watch: Heavy smog In Delhi as air quality remains in ‘severe’ category 2. Karnataka: After announcing a ban on the sale and use of firecrackers, the Karnataka government backtracked and said that people are allowed to sell and use green firecrackers during Diwali.3. West Bengal: The Calcutta High Court had banned the use and sale of firecrackers on Kali Puja, Chhath and Kartik Puja to curb pollution amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The same guidelines will be followed for Diwali.Read more | US: The end of a corrosive chapter4. Sikkim: The Sikkim government has imposed a complete ban on firecrackers throughout the state from November 4 until further orders.5. Odisha: The Odisha government banned the sale and use of firecrackers across the state from November 10 to 30.6. Rajasthan: The Rajasthan government put a blanket ban on the sale and bursting of firecrackers, announcing a penalty of Rs 2,000 on anyone found violating the order.7. Haryana: The Haryana government has permitted the bursting of firecrackers for only two hours — between 8 pm and 10 pm — on Diwali, in the state.8. Maharashtra: The Uddhav Thackeray led Maharashtra government has not banned firecrackers but has appealed to the people to refrain from using them in the interest of health and safety of all.9. Punjab: The Punjab government has told NGT that a ban on firecrackers is not required for the state and on Diwali bursting of crackers is allowed only between 8pm to 10pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-the-ngt-order-on-firecracker-ban-here-s-what-different-states-have-done/story-vr2OXHiqidEwakdLrvlJFP.html
09-11-2020||India||Cheers from Kamala Harris’ ancestral village||Residents of Thulasendrapuram village in Tiruvarur district of Tamil Nadu — where PV Gopalan, the maternal grandfather of the new United States Vice President-elect was born in 1911 — burst firecrackers, distributed sweets and drew colourful rangoli even as Prime Minister Narendra Modi congratulated Kamala Harris over Twitter declaring it a proud moment for Indian-Americans.“Heartiest congratulations @KamalaHarris! Your success is pathbreaking, and a matter of immense pride not just for your chittis, but also for all Indian-Americans. I am confident that the vibrant India-US ties will get even stronger with your support and leadership” Modi tweeted on November 8.Harris, born to an Indian mother, Shyamala Gopalan and a Jamaican father, Donald Harris — both of whom immigrated to the United States to study — made history by becoming the first woman, the first Black person, the person of South Asian descent and the first person born to immigrants to win the second-highest U.S. office in the election.At her ancestral village children clutched posters of Harris as people gathered at the Dharmasastha Aiyanar temple, which has been conducting special prayers since US President-elect Joe Biden announced Harris as his running mate in August.“Her win also motivates the boys and girls in our village,” says Arulmozhi Sudhakar, a local village head. “Now I’m able to show my 11-year-old son how much he can achieve.” Chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami tweeted that Harris’ victory made Tamil Nadu proud.Harris, who visited the village when she was five, has often recalled walks with her maternal grandfather on Chennai’s beaches during annual trips from the US.“She would often take long walks with my father and ask him about governance,” said Harris’ maternal uncle Gopalan Balachandran, who lives in New Delhi.His father served as civil servant for 40 years. “He started off as a clerk and retired as a joint-secretary. Kamala would quiz him about why’s and the how’s of government all the time. She was very inquisitive and never hesitated to ask questions,” Balachandran said.“I’m sure she imagined that she could reach the position of vice-president, that is why she contested. We have to wait and see how see works during her tenure. Who knows, she may run for the presidency,” Balachandran said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cheers-from-kamala-harris-ancestral-village/story-ZqNoT4TC8K3GAib62V5r1O.html
09-11-2020||India||AG again declines to initiate a contempt case against Jagan||Attorney General K K Venugopal has refused to reconsider his November 2 decision declining consent to BJP leader and lawyer Ashwini Upadhyay to initiate contempt proceedings against the Andhra Pradesh chief minister and his principal advisor for making allegations against judges.However, he stated that his refusal to grant consent will not come in the way of the Supreme Court taking suo motu contempt action on Y S Jaganmohan Reddy’s allegations contained in a letter written to Chief Justice of India (CJI) on October 6.The demand to initiate contempt against Reddy and Kallam was made by BJP leader and lawyer Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay in a letter addressed to AG on October 25 which the latter rejected on November 2. AG maintained that the alleged contempt arose out of a letter written by Reddy to Chief Justice of India (CJI) on October 6 and since the CJI was seized of the matter, it would not be appropriate for him to interfere. Upadhyay replied to Venugopal on November 5 seeking reconsideration.The government’s chief law officer, in his reply, reiterated his stand saying that the issue of contempt was between Chief Justice of India (CJI) S A Bobde and Chief Minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy and his principal advisor Ajeya Kallam.However, he added: “My refusal to grant consent does not preclude you from bringing these facts to the notice of the Judges of the Supreme Court with a prayer for initiation of suo moto action…”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ag-again-declines-to-initiate-a-contempt-case-against-jagan/story-zFcQfFUHOC0CD327OV0SAL.html
09-11-2020||India||4 personnel, 3 terrorists killed as forces foil infiltration bid in Jammu and Kashmir||Three terrorists and four security personnel, including an officer, were killed when a joint team of the Indian Army and the Border Security Force (BSF) foiled an infiltration bid along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir’s Machil sector, officials said on Sunday.The forces identified one of the deceased personnel as 38-year-old BSF constable Sudip Kumar from Tripura.According to an official, a BSF patrol team noticed the movement of the terrorists near the LoC on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday.“The team challenged the terrorists, who then opened fire. The BSF team retaliated, killing one of the terrorists immediately while the others hid,” said a BSF spokesperson. The official added that Pakistan resorted to ceasefire violation at the same time in an attempt to help the terrorists infiltrate.“During the gunfight, BSF jawan Sudip Kumar received bullet injuries but he continued fighting with utter disregard for his personal safety. He eventually succumbed to the injuries,” the BSF spokesperson said.Army reinforcements arrived from the nearby forward posts to aid the BSF team and a joint operation began, officials said.Giving details of the operation, Srinagar-based defence spokesperson Colonel Rajesh Kalia said: “Terrorists’ movement was tracked by surveillance devices. Contact was re-established at 10.20am when heavy fire was drawn by our search parties approximately 1.5km from the LoC. In the ensuing firefight, two more terrorists were killed.”He added that three army personnel died in the gunfight.J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha paid tributes to the slain soldiers. “The LG saluted the supreme sacrifice of the jawans and lauded the courage and valour displayed by them while protecting the integrity and sovereignty of the country,” an official spokesperson said.The operation was underway till the time of filing the report.On October 10, the General Officer Commanding (GOC) of army’s strategic Chinar Corps, Lt Gen BS Raju, said the forces have been able to stop a number of infiltration bids this year. “Last year around 130 persons had infiltrated and this year the figure is below 30...,” he said.The GOC said the forces were keeping their guard up as hundreds of terrorists were waiting across the LoC to infiltrate into India. “As per our intelligence, around 250-300 terrorists are ready at launch pads on the Pakistan side to infiltrate,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-personnel-3-terrorists-killed-as-forces-foil-infiltration-bid-in-jammu-and-kashmir/story-xqTsKUn6vfGUqYM1eNTKHI.html
09-11-2020||India||‘After Bihar, upcoming elections in Bengal, TN will be held on schedule’: EC Sushil Chandra||In an interview to Deeksha Bhardwaj, election commissioner Sushil Chandra, who will take over as chief election commissioner next year, elaborates on precautions taken for Bihar polls, the first elections since the Covid-19 outbreak:The Bihar election was the first major poll to be held during the pandemic, how was the voter turnout?We ensured that global guidelines for social distancing and sanitisation were unanimously followed. This, in turn, helped us achieve the safety of each voter against Covid-19.Nearly 57.92 per cent voters turned out for the third phase, more than the turnout in 2015, which was 56.66 per cent. Overall, we have seen an increase in electoral participation as compared to the last election, which is very heartening amid a pandemic.What challenges did you face during the election?The biggest challenge, of course, was getting voters to comply with Covid-19 guidelines like social distancing and sanitisation.Safety of voters was another big challenge. Everyone assumed that the voter turnout would decrease because of the pandemic, but with the continuous efforts of SVEEP (Systematic Voters’ Education and Electoral Participation program is a voter-awareness program of the EC) and other initiatives undertaken by the Commission, we were able to encourage the voters to feel safe during the pandemic.How were the elections amid pandemic different?More CAPF personnel than usual were deployed for the Bihar polls. This ensured that there was not even a single case of booth capturing.In terms of expenditure related seizures, items worth of ₹66.41 crore were seized. These included alcohol, narcotic substances, cash and freebies. This is exponentially more than the ₹28.82 crore-worth seizure during the 2015 assembly election and the ₹8.1 crore-worth seizure during the 2019 Lok Sabha election in the state.What are the major takeaways from the Bihar elections?The biggest takeaway has to be that even if a vaccine for Covid-19 is not developed soon, future elections in the country will be held on schedule. If the Covid-19 pandemic recedes, we will all be very happy. In case it doesn’t, guidelines similar to those put in place for Bihar will have to be observed for other upcoming elections — including those in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Assam, Kerala and Puducherry. It’s been a very peaceful and safe election in Bihar and that gives us immense hope.The ECI assigned a specific Covid-hour for people who had tested positive for the infection, those under quarantine and those with high temperatures or other symptoms. What was the impact?Over 240 Covid-19 positive patients chose to exercise their franchise and cast their ballot during the three phases of the election. None of them used the postal ballots that were provided to them and cast their votes in person at the polling booths.Additionally, during this one hour, all polling officials were clad in PPE kits.Was the election inclusive in terms of participation from all sections?The election was an especially inclusive one with the commission setting up at least two polling stations in every assembly constituency that were run only by women.Additional arrangements were made for Covid-19 patients, senior citizens and people with disabilities.The commission also conducted an international webinar with participation from nearly 30-40 countries to showcase the arrangements it had made during the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-bihar-upcoming-elections-in-bengal-tn-will-be-held-on-schedule-ec-sushil-chandra/story-d4hb9AmZksFblI5bJP7YKK.html
09-11-2020||India||Stir to save Mollem rages on in Goa||On Sunday night, nearly 3,000 Goans bearing torches, lanterns and candles descended on the historic village of Chandor — one of the medieval capitals of Goa and neighbouring territories — to sing, dance, beat drums and raise slogans against the government for allowing expansion of a railway line through protected areas to increase coal carrying capacity of Goa’s Mormugao Port.The protests and arresting visuals garnered nationwide attention and support with celebrities and other movements some from as far as Australia joining cause with Goa’s twin movements — Save Mollem and Goyant Kollso Naka (We don’t want coal in Goa).They were protesting for twin causes and opposing a trio of projects, a double tracking of a railway line, highway expansion and power line that will all slice through Goa’s oldest wildlife sanctuary, the Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary which was notified in 1967 and its sister the Mollem National Park which was carved out of it in 1978. Together the sanctuaries cover an area of 240 square kilometres along Goa’s eastern frontier with Karnataka.The expansion of National Highway 4-A, the construction of a new transmission line and the doubling of the existing railway line, all passing through the Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary and National Park will collectively require the diversion and destruction of 170 hectares of forest in different areas of this protected wildlife habitat, which the activists allege will irreparably fragment and destroy the sanctuary and the pristine Western Ghats ecosystem that it was designed to protect.The railway line, by far the biggest of the three projects will come at a cost of diversion of 113.857 ha. of forest land and felling of 18,541 trees.The second project -- the four-laning of the existing two-lane highway was constructed by the Portuguese colonial government between Panaji in Goa and Belgavi in Karnataka will cost 31.015 ha of forest land and 12,097 trees. The third is a 400KV power line, 3.5 km of which passes through protected forest to augment power supply between Goa and Karnataka and to provide additional feed to Goa.In 2010, the Ministry of Railways sanctioned the doubling of the existing Hospet-Tinaighat-Vasco railway line in the states of Karnataka and Goa. The first phase between Hospet and Tinai ghat involved easier terrain atop the largely flat Deccan plateau and has already been completed. The stretch between Tinaighat and Vasco da Gama is now being built.Activists allege that the railway track doubling is being undertaken solely to expand the coal carrying capacity of the railway line from Goa’s Mormugao Port to north Karnataka. The existing single line track built through a collaboration between the British and Portuguese colonial governments in the late 19th century has since been saturated. The steep gradient and winding terrain means trains take even longer to power up and over the Western Ghats whilst passing through the breathtaking sight of Dudhsagar waterfalls enroute.The existing track is proposed to be doubled along the same alignment after a separate proposal to build a fresh track along a different alignment was rejected by the state board for wildlife as it would mean intruding into hitherto virgin forests, but the present proposal too brings with it risks of destabilising the steep and fragile slopes of the Western Ghats leading to landslides.A standing committee of the National Board for Wildlife Chaired by Union Minister for Environment, Prakash Javadekar cleared the three projects in April this year in a meeting that was held via video conference owing to the lockdown that was then in force.The manner in which the projects were cleared has been challenged both before the Bombay High Court at Goa and the Central Empowered Committee constituted by the Supreme Court. Activists accuse the Government of using the lockdown to push through the projects.“The wildlife approvals have been granted to these projects without proper consideration and examination of the proposals and studies submitted. The environmental impact assessments of the projects, wherever done, have been shoddily carried out, with little or no proper evaluation on the impact on the wildlife habitat including its biodiversity,” the Goa Foundation which is leading the legal battle against the projects, has said in its petition before the Goa bench of Bombay high court.“More importantly there is no cumulative impact assessment for the three projects which would disclose or assess their true impact on the Mollem sanctuary and national park and as a result of significant diversion of forest lands, destruction of biodiversity and water bodies,” the Foundation said.Till date the Ministry has received a deluge of representation to revoke the permissions that they have granted including from researchers, naturalists, students, tourism stakeholders, small business owners, etc. who all fear that the destruction will not only be bad for the environment but also for business that depends on the pristine non industrialised environment.Besides concerns surrounding the forests of the Western Ghats, residents of villages through which the line passes have been protesting fearing that the expansion will lead to even more coal dust pollution -- a problem that is not just plaguing the port town of Vasco da Gama where the coal is loaded and unloaded from ships and onto rail wagons in the open air but also those living along the 83-kilometre track as the trains run past. Besides poor air quality, a study by the National Institute of Oceanography also found that the coal handling was responsible for poisoning the oysters and clams harvested in the waters surrounding the port with Mercury. Unlike steel plants in the Jharkhand-Odisha belt for whom coal is locally available, the lack of coal mines in peninsular India means that steel plants rely on imported coal. For steel plants in North Karnataka, the Goa port is the closest major one.Around 12 million tons is imported annually, but plans are afoot to expand the capacity to nearly 55 million tons through a network of infrastructure projects for which the railway line will serve as a crucial link.“The people of Goa will fight it out to their last breath, and not allow the coalition government of BJP, Adani, Sterlite, Vedanta and Jindal to destroy our land, our wildlife sanctuaries, our environment, our health and the future of our youth,” Viriato Fernandes who is among those leading the protests said.Jindal South West (JSW) is the largest importer of coal followed by Adani and Sesa Sterlite.In a series of tweets on Thursday the Adani group distanced itself from the projects claiming that it was “no way connected to the existing issues in Goa pertaining to the expansion of the Highway and Railway Lines.”While claiming that its share of coal handling was only 10% of the total at Mormugao Port, the group in a statement claimed that “the ongoing issue is a politically driven agenda with vested interests that is misleading people.”The Goa government has responded to the protests by initially claiming that the opposition was funded from outside the state, that projects were in the interest of Goa and more recently trying to reassure the protesters that the coal capacity will not be enhanced, and that the projects would benefit the state.“Goa will not be a coal hub at all. This is a strong statement which I want to say on behalf of the government. There is an apprehension created in the minds of the people of Goa and expats across the world, that more coal will be brought to Goa. Currently, 10 to 12 million tons of coal is being imported annually. This will not increase. Government will look to make sure that the (quantum) will not increase,” Goa environment minister Nilesh Cabral said.The railways have justified locating the project in forest land saying that there is no alternative as the alignment invariably has to pass through the protected area and that the existing single railway line is saturated. The authorities also announced mitigation measures in the form of four underpasses to allow for wildlife crossing for the railway project and elevated viaduct at 13 locations for the highway, which activists say are not nearly enough.Environmentalists have also pointed to other inconsistencies -- the highway expansion through the protected forests on the Karnataka side has been shelved with the NHAI agreeing to keep the highway of the same width leaving activists wondering why the same concessions couldn’t be given to Goa.In response to the protests, the Goa government has filed an FIR against unknown persons for unlawful assembly .“If the government is thinking of arresting a common man for unlawful assembly then I demand the govt representatives be arrested too, for bypassing laws to build projects within a legally protected forest area,” stated Lorraine Fernandes, a protester.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stir-to-save-mollem-rages-on-in-goa/story-fHkXkuAKy32O3kFwgR1UhP.html
09-11-2020||India||11-year-old minor girl raped by father’s friend in Vijay Nagar||An 11-year-old girl was allegedly raped by her father’s 42-year-old friend at her home in outer Delhi’s Vijay Vihar on Saturday afternoon, police said. Police have arrested the man and registered a case against him.The man fled from the crime scene after a woman in the neighbourhood saw him sexually assaulting the girl and raised an alarm. He was later caught from outer Delhi, said the police.“We registered a case of rape under the relevant sections of Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. He is a friend of the girl’s father,” said deputy commissioner of police (Rohini) Pramod Kumar Mishra.Police said that the girl lives with her parents and younger brother at their home in Vijay Vihar. Her father is a mason while the mother is a home maker. Her mother had gone to her village for some work.Police said that on Saturday morning, the child’s father had left for work, leaving his two children at home. Around 1 pm, the friend of the girl’s father reached home and forced himself on her while her brother was sleeping.“The girl’s medical examination was done and she was counselled,” the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/11-year-old-minor-girl-raped-by-father-s-friend-in-vijay-nagar/story-v5X2kArxu2yX0ZN6J89QEK.html
09-11-2020||India||Delhiwale: Tasting ‘snow’ in old Delhi||It’s just another smoggy morning in the Walled City’s Galli Chooriwallan street. Some people are in masks, many are not. Lazy dogs are snoozing under vegetable carts, and greedy cats are eyeing rejects of meat by the butcher shops.And suddenly, Sanjay Kumar appears with his cart. It has a huge platter filled with a mound of white snow-like substance, topped with what looks like egg yolk. There’s nothing eggy about it though. This is one of Delhi’s most fabled dessert, which appears in winter only.Daulat ki Chaat is more an idea than a dessert. Much romance is attached to its making. One legend is that the milk is whisked under a full moon sky, and that the morning dew sets the resulting froth. A truly well-made version—and that’s rare to find— is so light that it feels like a whisper to the palate. Toss a spoonful of the dish into the mouth and it disappears, like the first snow on the pavement of cities lucky enough to get snowfall. The lingering sweetness is as delicate as a cobweb’s fabric.Made of buffalo milk, Daulat ki Chaat seems to belong to the street — as if it were reluctant to be pro-establishment. You are not likely to see it in mithai shops or in table-and-chair eateries. Sold exclusively on wooden carts or on three-legged mobile stands (called tarona), its sellers are mostly natives from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.Roaming about in Galli Chooriwallan, Sanjay Kumar explains he is from Chandausi in UP. Mr Kumar lives with family in nearby Sitaram Bazaar. Every morning he wakes up at three and whisks cream with milk for four hours. Nothing is added into the mixture, he insists, not even sugar. The great froth builds up some hours later. At daybreak, Mr Kumar leaves his house and makes several rounds across the Walled City bylanes. The cart holds 15 kilograms of the dessert, the snow-white surface of which is coloured with golden-yellow saffron, green pistachio nuts and sometimes decorated with (edible) silver foil. Sold for Rs50 a plate, the froth, just before being served to the customer, is dusted with boora (ground sugar) and roasted khoya (condensed milk).Eaten with a wooden spoon, the first sensation is that of licked butter. That impression instantly dissolves. A moment later, the senses dance with flavours of pistachio, saffron and khoya. If you don’t take another spoon quickly, the taste vanishes.Since this cloud of cream melts in high temperature, Daulat ki Chaat vendors are sighted only in winter, from Diwali festival in November to Holi in March. Hawked in the congested alleys of Chandni Chowk, Kinari Bazaar and Chawri Bazaar – amid dust, fumes and flies – the dessert, covered with muslin, proves that beauty can survive in the most adverse circumstances, briefly.Editor’s Note: A previous version of this article gave an incorrect figure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-tasting-snow-in-old-delhi/story-IEvlOsczQubI3BZ7Jnf9lM.html
09-11-2020||India||City’s Covid surge chokes NCR of hospital beds||Noida-resident Bhanupratap Singh stood in queue for hospital admission at Sir Ganga Ram hospital on Saturday. His friend’s mother had tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and was brought to the hospital emergency when she started having difficulty breathing. “She is still in the hospital emergency. There are no beds in the hospital; we are waiting for beds to free up so she can be admitted. I have called several private as well as government hospitals but was told that even they did not have beds. In fact, the corona app shows that there are beds available in these hospitals but when I called, I was refused,” said Singh, wishing not to give the name of the patient. “My friend’s brother had also tested positive in September and there was no problem in getting him admitted to a hospital at that time,” he added. The situation was the same for Akriti whose 65-year-old father and 62-year-old mother had both tested positive for the infection earlier this week. On Thursday, when her father’s oxygen saturation started dropping suddenly, she took him to the emergency department of a big private hospital in the city. He stayed in the hospital emergency for over 24 hours because they were unable to find an ICU bed. With Delhi reporting over 6,500 cases for five days, hospital admissions in the city have shot up. Over 81% of all the intensive care unit beds available in Delhi were occupied as of Sunday evening, according to data on the Delhi Corona app. Almost 86% of the ICU beds in five big government hospitals were occupied and 93% of those in the five big private hospital chains, according to the data.As for the total beds earmarked for the treatment of Covid-19, around 50% of 16,067 were occupied as of Sunday evening. “Over the last week or so, the Covid-19 admissions have shot up. And if you see the big hospitals, almost all of the patients need oxygen support, non-invasive or invasive ventilation. Those with mild symptoms are choosing to stay at home. There is a very small proportion of patients admitted to the general wards – those who are very old or have several comorbid conditions and are at a high risk of the disease taking a severe course,” said Dr Atul Gogia, senior consultant of internal medicine at Sir Ganga Ram hospital. Unlike in August, when several of the Covid-19 patients were from neighbouring states, most patients in the hospital are from Delhi, he said. However, several hospitals in Delhi NCR say that many of their in-patients are from Delhi.Of 670 Covid-19 patients admitted in Gurugam hospitals, only 300 are city residents, while 144 are residents of Delhi.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram, said spillovers from Delhi and neighbouring regions had been anticipated earlier. “There is no cause for alarm because so far we are able to absorb this spillover… In certain hospitals, availability of beds is an issue, but there are plenty of beds available in other private and government facilities. There are no curbs on admitting patients from elsewhere,” he said. A spokesperson with a major private hospital in Gurugram, who did not wish to be identified, said that a significant number of patients from Delhi are elderly with comorbidities like diabetes, hypertension and past cardiac events. “They typically opt for one of three major multi-specialty hospitals in Gurugram that offer Covid-19 treatment, but are also equipped to deal with any complications arising from specific comorbidities. Many also happen to be residents of south and west Delhi, since Gurugram is easily accessible from there…,” the spokesperson said.Private hospitals in Ghaziabad have also reported increase in bed occupancy, and say that they have been admitting Covid-19 patients from Delhi as well.“Our occupancy till last week was about 65-70% and it has now gone up to about 90%. We are now getting patients from Delhi, Noida, Meerut and Bulandshahr besides the ones in Ghaziabad. It is also expected that spike in Delhi and upcoming festival season will surely lead to increase in number of cases,” said Dr Sangeeta Garg, chief medical superintendent of Yashoda Super Speciality Hospital at Nehru Nagar.Apart from the 13 private hospitals with 900 Covid-19 beds, there are 576 beds dedicated for Covid-19 patients in government hospitals in the district.District officials said they were getting 1,100 beds readied, and have made arrangements for 43 ventilators in government and 45 ventilators in private sector hospitals for the expected surge in cases in coming weeks. Noida and Greater Noida in Uttar Pradesh have enough Covid-19 beds to meet the current demand say officials, however, they are preparing for a surge in demand for ICU beds. “As of Saturday, the district has a total 64 patients in ICU of which eight are on ventilators. The average mortality rate so far for the district is 0.4%. Since there are about 1,500 vacant beds, it seems there is so far no need to increase them, but the department has already asked several private and public hospitals to keeps a few beds in reserve, just in case,” said Dr Manoj Kumar Kushwaha, district surveillance officer, state health department, Gautam Budh Nagar. To increase the number of beds, the Delhi government on Friday directed 22 hospitals to reserve more beds for Covid-19. This will add 1,185 more beds to the city’s then total 15,800 Covid-19 beds. The government has also been trying to challenge a Delhi high court decision that scrapped its September order to reserve 80% ICU beds in 33 big private hospitals. The problem is likely to get worse, with a committee headed by NITI Aayog member Dr VK Paul estimating that Delhi might see up to 15,000 cases a day during the winters. “Aggressive contact tracing and testing is a part of the reason for the current increase in the number of cases, the number of hospitalisations show that the infection is on the rise in Delhi. The third wave is the worst. Our committee had suggested creating pre-hospital facilities in banquet halls that can support patients who need some oxygen support, but with the increase in the number of patients needing intensive care, ICU beds will have to be increased in the hospitals,” said Dr Arun Gupta, a member of a committee set up by Delhi government in June beginning to help it in estimating and planning scale-up of infrastructure needed to manage Covid-19. He said the government ordering 80% reservation of ICU beds is one way to do so. “If infrastructure gets overwhelmed and people do not receive appropriate care at the right time, the mortality is likely to go up. Apart from what the private sector is doing, there are several free beds in government hospitals that can be upgraded to become ICU-like,” said Dr Sandeep Budhiraja, group medical director, Max hospitals. The city is likely to see a further rise in cases for now, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/city-s-covid-surge-chokes-ncr-of-hospital-beds/story-mFu02XoJH9rKxFLOM8LYYJ.html
09-11-2020||India||No breakthrough in 8th round of India, China military talks||The Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) will ensure their frontline soldiers “exercise restraint and avoid misunderstanding and miscalculation” along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) during the latest round of talks between senior commanders at Chushul on November 6, said a joint statement issued on Sunday.“Both sides agreed to earnestly implement the important consensus reached by the leaders of the two countries, ensure their frontline troops exercise restraint and avoid misunderstanding and miscalculation,” the statement said.The situation in the Ladakh sector remains tense and the ongoing military dialogue has not led to any breakthrough, officials familiar with developments said on the condition of anonymity. The November 6 talks were the eighth dialogue between senior military commanders from the two sides.Both sides agreed to implement the consensus reached by the leaders’ of the two countries, the statement said. The two sides plan to hold the ninth round of talks between corps commander-ranked officers soon. “The two sides had a candid, in-depth and constructive exchange of views on disengagement along the LAC in the western sector of India-China border areas,” the statement said. Talks to resolve the border row will continue even as both armies are prepared for a long haul in the Ladakh theatre. “Both sides agreed to maintain dialogue and communication through military and diplomatic channels, and, taking forward the discussions at this meeting, push for the settlement of other outstanding issues...,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-breakthrough-in-8th-round-of-india-china-military-talks/story-sibyVC2gCRj05I4L4TlGaP.html
09-11-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||“If I had ever been here before I would probably know just what to do; Don’t you?” That’s the opening line of Deja Vu, written by David Crosby and one of the tracks on the Crosby, Stills, Nash, and Young album Deja Vu. As the number of Covid-19 cases rises in Delhi, and its satellites Gurugram, and Noida — from illness to pollution, these cities in the National Capital Region share pretty much everything, one reason why the area needs coordinated management, but that’s another story — there’s a sense that we’ve been here before. And the truth is, we have. Horror stories about the difficulties of finding a hospital bed, especially one in a critical care unit, and with a ventilator, are beginning to do the rounds in NCR again, around four months after they last did. Delhi has been recording around 7,000 cases a day on average for the past five days. That’s the highest the Capital has seen and experts expect the number to rise in coming days as the natural consequences of winter, bad air, and festive gatherings play out. The first wave of the coronavirus disease pandemic started in India in March, and has either ended or is ending now. That’s a run of eight months, punctuated by a 68-day lockdown that definitely slowed the spread of the virus. The lockdown also roiled an economy that was already not in great shape, and it is only now that some signs of recovery are emerging. Goods and Services Tax revenue has crossed the ₹1 lakh crore (or 1 trillion)-mark in October, the first time it has done so since February; the Purchase Managers’ Index for manufacturing (a lead indicator of manufacturing activity) is up; and several sectoral indicators are in the green, although it remains to be seen whether they stay there after the festive season. Like other countries that imposed lockdowns, and then lived with the debilitating economic consequences, India is likely to be reluctant to impose a second one. Much of Europe was, although many countries there, including the UK, have finally done so. These countries initially believed they could manage rising cases through focused measures, instead of a general lockdown. Many states in the US find themselves in a similar situation now as the number of cases in the country soars to unprecedented levels. The 7-day average of daily new cases in the US was almost 107,000 on Saturday night. The 7-day average of deaths is around 900, less than half of the peaks it saw in April, but US media reports say that deaths are rising in at least half the 50 states in that country. The country’s efforts to deal with the second wave will likely be crimped by the fact that the incumbent President, whose leadership during the pandemic has been questioned, may well choose to continue to disregard science and data for the two more months that he stays in charge. If the pandemic breaks in waves — and it is increasingly becoming clear that it does — then, apart from the Union territory of Delhi, the states that need watching are Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Gujarat. In April and May, these were the states driving the pandemic’s early march in India. In late April, these states accounted for most of the cases in the country. All of them would do well to step up their testing, review their hospital infrastructure, and proactively enforce targeted measures (restrictions on gatherings of any kind, curfews for shops and restaurants, limits on the number of people who can work from office, and other such). Many of these regions appear to be either going slow or have entirely abandoned their sero-surveys of the population to test for Covid-19 antibodies as a way to measure the prevalence of and exposure to the infection. That data could prove invaluable now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-kAEqLKQBZQi47FvXBQ6rlN.html
09-11-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi congratulates US President-elect Joe Biden, admires Kamala Harris’ unwavering courage||Congratulating the US President-elect Joe Biden for his victory, Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Sunday expressed hope that under the new regime, India-US’ “close partnership” will be “beneficial to peace and development in our region and around the world”. In a separate letter, Gandhi hailed vice president-elect, Kamala Harris’s victory as triumph of “humanity, compassion and inclusiveness”, admired her “unwavering courage” and mentioned how Harris imbibed beliefs and values from her “remarkable mother”. She stressed on Harris’s unwavering support for human rights and democratic values, and heralded her win as a “triumph for Black Americans and Indian Americans”. “I admire the unwavering courage with which you have fought for your convictions -- the beliefs and values you imbibed from your remarkable mother!” she wrote. Joe Biden defeated Donald Trump to become the 46th President of the US. Kamala Harris, his running mate, is the first-ever Indian-American and Black woman vice president of the US. Gandhi’s letter to the newly-elected leaders underline India’s bipartisan friendship with the US irrespective of the political colour of the ruling dispensation. On Saturday, Congress MP Rahul Gandhi congratulated Biden in a tweet. “Like millions around the world, the Indian people have followed with great interest the course of the election during the last 12 months,” Gandhi wrote to Biden, “We were greatly reassured by your measured speeches, stress on healing divisions among the people and promotion of gender and racial equality...” “The Indian people share these concerns and we are confident that India and the US will continue to work together, as in the past decades, for the welfare of the people of both countries,” Gandhi wrote to Biden. In a separate letter to Harris, Gandhi ended the note with hopes of welcoming Harris to India soon “not just as an admired leader of a great democracy but also as a beloved daughter”. She noted that Harris’ win is also a victory for all the noble values enshrined in the American constitution -- democracy, social justice, and racial and gender equality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-congratulates-us-president-elect-joe-biden-admires-kamala-harris-unwavering-courage/story-KJZZyHXSKwbNRs16QTcgwJ.html
09-11-2020||India||Noida film city will be bigger than one in Mumbai, says Keshav Prasad Maurya||Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya on Saturday asserted that the proposed film city in Noida will be bigger than the one in Mumbai. He was speaking during the inauguration of the office of Film Development Council chairman Raju Srivastava. “The proposed film city in Noida will provide employment opportunities to artistes in the state. The Film Development Council is going to give a bigger film city to Uttar Pradesh than the one in Mumbai,” Maurya said. UP Law Minister Brijesh Pathak said that artistes working in the state will gain from it. Raju Srivastava said that the effort of the state government will attract filmmakers to the state and will provide them every possible facility, a statement issued by the UP Government said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/noida-film-city-will-be-bigger-than-one-in-mumbai-says-keshav-prasad-maurya/story-okjtXTtDYSAemPQ9qfF23L.html
09-11-2020||India||Central Vista redevelopment: Contractors will need to curb air, noise pollution||The next phase of the Central Vista redevelopment project will require contractors to install air purifiers and keep construction noise under preset thresholds, according to tender documents seen by HT that lay down some broad guidelines for what companies must accept when they file their bids next month.This phase will involve redevelopment and restructuring the Central Vista Avenue, which includes the majority of the Rajpath stretch and the row of government offices that are parallel to it. In addition to the air and noise pollution limits for work in this area, which is one of the Capital’s best known landmarks, the Union government has put a 300-day deadline and the work will need to be carried out in patches in order to minimise the portion of the avenue that is out of bounds at any given time.In its tender, Centre has said the bidder shall follow all green construction practices and shall get periodic green audit conducted as per extant guidelines. “The contractor will also have to install air quality monitors, required number of air purifiers to maintain air quality index below acceptable levels of PM 2.5 -- within 150 [for] up to 500m from the site of work -- during the entire construction period,” the tender documents say.Similarly, the contractor will also have to install noise monitors and take steps to keep the sound level below 90/120 dB between 6:00am to 10:00pm and 60/90 dB between 10.00pm to 6.00am. Construction firms interested in taking up the project will need to submit technical plans and financial bids on December 1. “The contractor may have to execute the work in three shifts with large manpower of workers, supervisors and professional engineers,” the tender document said.“The site shall be kept clean of all debris, rubbish and dirt & surplus/waste material all the time. It also includes maintenance, cleaning & de-silting the pipe lines laid by the contractor for all internal services etc executed by the contractor to the entire satisfaction of the engineer-in-charge during the maintenance periods,” the document added. These conditions appeared to take on concerns expressed by experts and activists that the redevelopment will pollute one of the cleanest parts of the city.“It is an illusion that air pollution can be managed through fixes like air purifiers. The tender for redevelopment of the Central Vista is being pushed through without a thorough assessment of the ecological footprint, social legitimacy and public health concerns,” said Kanchi Kohli, a legal researcher at the Centre for Policy Research.“It appears that fait accompli was built into all regulatory and legal processes ever since the timelines were announced in 2019. So inclusion of conditions to manage air pollution pays lip service to a huge health and environmental crisis that the country is facing today. And more importantly gives the signal that the central government is pushing through a massive area development project by ignoring all calls for public engagement and disclosure,” Kohli added.Whichever firm is selected, it will be responsible for comprehensive maintenance and operation for a period of 60 months after completion of construction. The second phase of the project will include the demolition of dozens of office buildings. Broadly, the plan includes razing buildings such as Shastri Bhawan, Udyog Bhawan and Krishi Bhawan that house important government ministries to build a common secretariat for roughly 70,000 central government employees who are located in 30 buildings.The documents lay down some cost estimates: ₹463.10 crore of which ₹333.12 crore will be for the ‘Civil & Horticulture Component’, ₹114.46 crore for the ‘Electrical & Mechanical component’ and ₹15.51 crore for ‘Operation & Maintenance’ for five years. “This estimate, however, is given merely as a rough guide,” the tender document said. Site of the work will be handed over to the contractor within 15 days of being awarded the contract, the bid document said, adding that during these 15 days, the “contractor shall take up mobilization activities.”The work on the second phase is proceeding at a time when the Supreme Court is about to decide on a legal challenge against the first phase – which includes the construction of a new parliament building. The plan, being handled by the ministry of housing and urban affairs, involves having a new Parliament by India’s 75th Independence Day in 2022, and the entire project is slated to be finished by 2024.Tata Projects Limited emerged as the lower bidder for the tender to construct the new Parliament complex by quoting a bid of ₹861.90 crore when the financial bids for the project opened on September 16 and it was awarded the contract to construct the building on September 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-vista-redevelopment-contractors-will-need-to-curb-air-noise-pollution/story-wq6LtSq3tztzIWkaBUsxuL.html
09-11-2020||India||After Bihar, upcoming elections in Bengal, TN will be held on schedule: Sushil Chandra||The biggest takeaway from the successful conduct of the Bihar polls is that the upcoming assembly elections can be held on schedule even if a Covid-19 vaccine is not developed in the near future, said Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra. In an interview to Deeksha Bhardwaj, Chandra, who is slated to take over as chief election commissioner next year, elaborates on the precautions taken for the first elections since the Covid-19 outbreak to ensure electoral participation.The Bihar election was the first major poll to be held during the pandemic, how was the voter turnout?We ensured that global guidelines for social distancing and sanitisation were unanimously followed. This, in turn, helped us achieve the safety of each voter against Covid-19. Nearly 57.92 per cent voters turned out for the third phase, more than the turnout in 2015, which was 56.66 per cent. Overall, we have seen an increase in electoral participation as compared to the last election, which is very heartening amid a pandemic. What challenges did you face during the election?The biggest challenge, of course, was getting voters to comply with Covid-19 guidelines like social distancing and sanitisation. Safety of voters was another big challenge. Everyone assumed that the voter turnout would decrease because of the pandemic, but with the continuous efforts of SVEEP (Systematic Voters’ Education and Electoral Participation program is a voter-awareness program of the EC) and other initiatives undertaken by the Commission, we were able to encourage the voters to feel safe during the pandemic. How were the elections amid pandemic different?More CAPF personnel than usual were deployed for the Bihar polls. This ensured that there was not even a single case of booth capturing. In terms of expenditure related seizures, items worth of Rs. 66.41 crore were seized. These included alcohol, narcotic substances, cash and freebies. This is exponentially more than the Rs 28.82 crore-worth seizure during the 2015 assembly election and the Rs 8.1 crore-worth seizure during the 2019 Lok Sabha election in the state. What are the major take-aways from the Bihar polls?The biggest take-away has to be that even if a vaccine for Covid-19 is not developed soon, future elections in the country will be held on schedule. If the Covid-19 pandemic recedes, we will all be very happy. In case it doesn’t, guidelines similar to those put in place for Bihar will have to be observed for other upcoming elections — including those in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Assam, Kerala and Puducherry. It’s been a very peaceful and safe election in Bihar and that gives us immense hope. The ECI assigned a specific Covid-hour for people who had tested positive for the infection, those under quarantine and those with high temperatures. What was the impact? Over 240 Covid-19 positive patients chose to exercise their franchise and cast their ballot over the three phases. None of them used the postal ballots that were provided to them and cast their votes in person at the polling booths. Additionally, during this one hour, all polling officials were clad in PPE kits. Was the election inclusive in terms of participation from all sections?The election was an especially inclusive one with the commission setting up at least two polling stations in every assembly constituency that were run only by women. Additional arrangements were made for Covid-19 patients, senior citizens and people with disabilities. The commission also conducted an international webinar with participation from nearly 30-40 countries to showcase the arrangements it had made during the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-bihar-upcoming-elections-in-bengal-tn-will-be-held-on-schedule-sushil-chandra/story-gSiwDNpphNnhcnaGRnLxpL.html
09-11-2020||India||Delhi’s air quality ‘severe’, likely to remain so on Diwali||The national capital’s air quality was recorded in the “severe” category on Saturday morning as farmers in Punjab and nearby regions continued to set their fields on fire to clear crop residue.The central government’s Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi said the city’s air quality is likely to remain “severe” on Diwali as well.Experts said while meteorological conditions were “moderately” favourable for dispersion of pollutants, a “very high” number of farm fires in Punjab was the primary reason for “severe” air quality.According to the Ministry of Earth Sciences’ air quality monitor, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research(SAFAR), Delhi’s overall air quality index (AQI) was 443 this morning.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.Also watch: Heavy smog In Delhi as air quality remains in ‘severe’ category PM10 levels in Delhi-NCR stood at 486 microgram per cubic meter (µg/m3) at 9 am, according to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data.PM10 is particulate matter with a diameter of 10 micrometers and inhaled into the lungs. These particles include dust, pollen and mold spores. PM10 levels below 100 µg/m3 are considered safe in India.The levels of PM2.5, finer particles which can even enter the bloodstream, were 292 µg/m3 at 9 am. PM2.5 levels up to 60 µg/m3 are considered safe.Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi said the number of farm fires in Punjab remains very high (around 4,000) which is likely to impact the air quality in Delhi-NCR and other parts of northwest India.It said the AQI is likely to remain in the “upper end of ‘very poor’ category on November 13 and ‘severe’ category on November 14 (Diwali)”.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the maximum wind speed was 14 kilometres per hour on Friday and the minimum temperature 11.8 degrees Celsius.Calm winds and low temperatures trap pollutants close to the ground, while favourable wind speed helps in their dispersion.V K Soni, head of IMD’s environment monitoring research centre, said, “A very large number of farm fires over Punjab is the primary reason for the severe air quality in the region.” SAFAR said the share of stubble burning in Delhi’s PM2.5 pollution was estimated at 21 per cent on Friday. It was 42 per cent on Thursday, the maximum so far this season.Last year, the contribution of stubble burning to Delhi’s pollution had peaked to 44 per cent on November 1, according to SAFAR data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-air-quality-severe-likely-to-remain-so-on-diwali/story-KNGSTLZ0zap64PGChJq40H.html
09-11-2020||Today's||Joe Biden and Kamala Harris should address ecological collapse now||Biden-Harris have won, and with them, the idea that the planet requires urgent protection from over-consumption, as do the poor. Although Biden is unlikely to cajole the Republican Senate to support his ideas, he can still enable global transformation.The US should at once re-join the Paris Agreement and the WHO. Doing this indicates US intent. Internally, Biden-Harris have committed to fighting extinction by protecting significant parts of America and restoring protection to critical habitat Trump cancelled. They’ve also promised clean electricity by 2035, and letting states like California pursue their ambitious environmental agenda, for example.Some of this will be hard without full Senate support, but Republicans under 40 are beginning to show concern about climate change, so perhaps there’s more support for these ideas than one believes.The US sets global trends. From worshipping super foods to stripping racism of all sense of shame, American values seep into other countries and cultures. All the more reason for Biden-Harris to push the envelope. We cannot afford to have an American President who asks citizens to go out and shop in the face of crisis. We need a President who asks citizens to share more than buy. We need an America where the mainstream acknowledges the environmental limits to consumption. Biden-Harris should address ecological collapse. The 46th President of the US can-and must-steer the world towards a place where reducing consumption, not increasing green consumption, is the way ahead. ‘Have Less’ should be the new American motto.(The writer is Founder and Director Chintan Environmental Research and Action Group)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/joe-biden-and-kamala-harris-should-address-ecological-collapse-now/story-tU1g9kgQBBWuwtD7HYkVwO.html
09-11-2020||Editorials||The world’s most powerful man | HT Editorial||The title of the world’s most powerful person will hang on the shoulders of a man who will be among the politically weakest people to assume the position. The United States (US) President-elect, Joe Biden, has a few months before he takes the oath of office. Even this interregnum will be fraught. The outgoing President Donald Trump is determined to make it a difficult transfer of power. The Republican Party will retain control of the majority of state legislatures and may yet hold on to the Senate. Because he is likely to only serve one term, President Biden’s honeymoon period will last barely two years before the next election cycle will begin. Then there are the external challenges of the pandemic, the economy and an aggressive China. Mr Trump is surrendering the Oval Office under the cover of a barrage of lawsuits and claims of fraud. He may never make a concession speech and will now issue a wave of executive orders to complicate the policy ground for Mr Biden. Mr Trump has a larger purpose: Embed the new administration into a larger narrative of illegitimacy. Mr Trump defied the pollsters and increased his fanatically loyal support base to 48%. He continues to hold his Republican Party by the scruff of its neck. Mainstream party leaders may be attracted to Mr Biden’s call for bipartisan cooperation, but Mr Trump is almost certain to force them to harry and attack the administration at every turn. Over the next several months it may seem like the US presidential campaign never ended. This political civil war will be both beneficial and disadvantageous to India. A weak administration will have difficulty in widening the door for immigrants. Trade policy may be less vituperative but will not substantially change. Mr Biden will also struggle to fend off the Left wing of his party, many of whom want to belabour New Delhi with a human rights stick. India will hope a Biden administration will do as much about climate change as New Delhi would like. On the positive side, Mr Trump will also hold Mr Biden to a harder line against China than the President-elect may prefer to take. These are largely about tweaks to ongoing policy streams. Much of the bilateral relationship is not a source of contention. India may even be among the few areas which will be outside any Biden-Trump policy feuds, a comment on how far the two largest democracies have come.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-world-s-most-powerful-man-ht-editorial/story-o2xlv6VGN6zNZUvOVCF6HO.html
