10-11-2020||News||India is in the middle of a much-needed start-up revolution||Five years since Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the Start-Up India initiative, we are witnessing a golden chapter in the history of Indian entrepreneurship. India now has 38,756 officially-recognised start-ups –– with 27 unicorns, eight of which achieved this status in 2020 –– and is the third-largest tech start-up hub globally. According to Praxis Global Alliance, start-ups are growing at an average rate of 12–15% annually. Start-ups have raised $63 billion between 2016–20 in funding, $20 billion of which was raised in 2019 over 1,854 deals. Investments in start-ups are growing incrementally each year ($12 billion, $25.2 billion, $26.3 billion, and $34 billion invested in the last four years, respectively), with $16.7 billion till May 2020. Start-Up India kickstarted an entrepreneurship revolution. Several policy interventions were since announced, giving the entrepreneurial ecosystem a much-needed launchpad. The overhaul of the digital payments ecosystem is being led by State innovation, with Aadhaar, Jan Dhan, UPI, and India Stack. The Atal Innovation Mission, Niti Aayog, has built an ecosystem of 8,800 tinkering labs, 4,000 mentors and over two-and-a-half million students, and acted as a conduit for over 3,500 innovations while supporting 1,500 start-ups. The National Education Policy, 2020, promotes student entrepreneurs by offering vocational education in partnership with industries and introducing coding for schoolchildren. The National Digital Health Mission presents opportunities for health-tech start-ups. The new farm acts give greater choice to farmers and incentivise start-ups to transform the agriculture value chain in storage, finance, transport, aggregation, and marketing. The recently-released Draft Space Policy states that “Indian entities can undertake design, development and realization of satellites and associated communication systems. They can establish satellite system through their own built satellite or procured satellite”. Due to these reforms, consumers can now benefit from a range of goods and services, which will elevate their quality of life. FIA Global –– with a network of 26,000 banking agents –– is using Artificial Intelligence (AI) to deliver financial products and services such as remittance services and access to credit in rural areas, and has reached over 34 million customers. Digital bookkeeping start-up OKCredit is helping micro-merchants keep paperless and secure transaction profiles, with a multilingual app benefiting 5.5 million merchants. MFine provides an AI-powered health care platform for people to consult over 3,500 doctors. PharmEasy connects local pharmacy stores and diagnostic centres to verify prescriptions and deliver over 100,000 medicines. BYJU has become a household name by benefitting over 70 million students. Camp K12 is taking coding lessons to children in rural areas. DeHaat’s end-to-end services –– ranging from advisory, distribution of agricultural inputs to access to financial services and market linkages –– in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Odisha has been utilised by 2,65,000 farmers, and resulted in savings up to 15% on agriculture inputs, raised productivity by 20% and farmers’ incomes up to 50%. Pixxel is building a constellation of satellites to detect and evaluate high-quality data, which will use AI/ML for predictive and productivity-enhancing mechanisms in agriculture, climate change, mining. Bellatrix Aerospace envisions making access to space more economical and secure by developing its own launch vehicles, “Chetak”, and electric propulsion systems. Peter Thiel’s Zero to One notes that successful entrepreneurs know the “secret” opportunity that exists in the market that others cannot see. This opportunity is being realised in India with innovative entrepreneurs riding on resilient policy support. Entrepreneurs today are utilising the unprecedented advances from technology, operating on the demands of our demography, and inadvertently steering citizen welfare.Amitabh Kant is the CEO, Niti Aayog, and Satwik Mishra is Young Professional, NITI Aayog The view expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/india-is-in-the-middle-of-a-much-needed-start-up-revolution/story-iJtS8APZFZgcHwPhOzNNLJ.html
10-11-2020||Chandigarh||Burst crackers in Chandigarh and land in jail for up to 2 years||This Diwali abstain from bursting crackers or be ready to face up to two-year imprisonment as the Chandigarh administration has decided to invoke the Disaster Management Act 2005 against violators. To keep a check on second wave of Covid-19 pandemic due to possible health complications arising from pollution, the administration last week imposed a blanket ban on the sale and bursting of firecrackers in the city. “There is no relaxation. So clear instructions have been passed to station house officers to ensure strict compliance. Anyone caught selling or bursting crackers will be booked under Section 188 (for non-compliance of prohibitory order) of the Indian Penal Code and action will also be taken under relevant section of the Disaster Management Act,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police, Chandigarh. Though the offence is bailable, provisions under the Disaster Management Act are stricter as compared to Section 188 of the IPC, which carries maximum jail of only three months.Section 51 of the Act provides for a jail term of two years in case anyone gets hurt and one year for mere violation. Chandigarh Police on last Diwali had registered 13 FIRs under Section 188 of the IPC against those bursting crackers beyond the permissible time limit of 8pm to 10pm. With NGT order’s backing, admn not ready to budge Even though cracker dealers are hoping to get a two-hour window for bursting crackers from the Punjab and Haryana high court on the lines of Panchkula, the Chandigarh administration is in no mood to roll back its decision.The police control room and beat box staff are already making announcements in different markets and localities, urging residents not to sell or burst crackers. “We are creating awareness among people that any violation will invite criminal proceedings,” said Chahal, adding that on Diwali, special teams will be constituted to make rounds in their jurisdictions and ensure strict compliance. The administration also got a shot in its arm with the National Green Tribunal’s order on Monday, which while enforcing a cracker ban in Delhi NCR issued similar directions to all cities in the country where the average ambient air quality last November had dropped in the “poor” category. Meanwhile, sale of only environment-friendly green crackers have been allowed in areas that had “moderate” air quality with two-hour window to burst them during festivals. In recent weeks, the air quality index (AQI) has stayed moderate (100-200), after becoming poor (200-300) on November 4 when it was recorded at 203. In 2019, it was on the same date that the year’s peak AQI of 335 (very poor) was recorded in the city. The meteorological department has warned that even this year, the AQI might go up in view of dry weather and unchecked stubble burning in the region. High court to take up cracker dealers’ plea todayThe high court will take up the plea of Chandigarh Cracker Dealers Association against the cracker ban on Wednesday. The petition states that the pollution level (AQI) in Chandigarh is less than 150, while in adjacent Panchkula it is almost double, at 250. Despite this, the Haryana government has not imposed a blanket ban, and there is no such move in Mohali too, the petitioners have said. The dealers have sought quashing of the UT administration’s decision, or as an alternative, directions to pay compensation in lieu of losses suffered by them.The administration last week after conducting draw of lots for allotment of 96 licences for the sale of firecrackers in the city had decided to impose the ban. Earlier, citing health experts, who had advised against bursting of crackers, the administration had also issued an advisory for people to stay indoors and desist from bursting firecrackers in order to prevent air pollution and to protect the elderly and people with comorbidities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/burst-crackers-in-chandigarh-and-land-in-jail-for-up-to-2-years/story-RmJXwb13dKf9UCWJ2cESNI.html
10-11-2020||City||Delhi police Eagle Squad recovers 125 two-wheelers stolen for street crimes, nabs 15 gang members||New DelhiThe Delhi Police on Tuesday said they had busted a syndicate of alleged auto-lifters and snatchers involved in street crimes and recovered 125 stolen motorcycles and scooters from them. A total of 15 suspected auto-lifters and snatchers, including the alleged kingpin, were arrested by the police, which claimed to have solved 131 vehicle theft and snatching cases. The arrests and recoveries of the vehicles and six mobile phones were made by the Eagle Squad of the Sultanpuri police station in the last 17 days, the police said. Eagle Squads, which consists of nearly a dozen police personnel, were constituted in outer Delhi’s Mangolpuri and Sultanpuri Raj Park police stations in August to neutralise street criminals. In September, the Eagle Squads of Mangolpuri and Raj Park police stations had recovered 116 stolen two-wheelers and arrested 14 alleged auto lifters and snatchers, police said. Apart from stealing two-wheelers and using them for street crimes, the arrested persons used to lend the vehicles to other gangs either on a daily rent basis or for a 20% to 30% share in the booty. The daily rent is between R2,000 and R3,000 depending on the speed of the bike or scooter, said deputy commissioner of police (outer) A Koan. Koan said there are two groups in the gang – one steals two-wheelers and the other uses them for snatching. The first group stole motorcycles from different parts of Delhi and parked them in lanes, near parks, drain and other parking spaces in unauthorised residential colonies in the jurisdiction of Sultanpuri police station. “Watchers were kept to keep an eye on the parked stolen vehicles and alert the kingpin and other members in case the police or anybody else picked up the vehicles. It helped the gang members to keep themselves updated about the status of the vehicles and avoid getting caught,” the DCP said. Police got information about the syndicate during the interrogation of 14 persons arrested for similar crimes in September. The information was developed by the Eagle Squad and on October 23, the team arrested three men – Sumit, Ajay and Vikas (first names) – with a stolen bike. “The trio said they were members of a gang led by Sagar alias Monu Kumar. We arrested the gang leader and 11 other members. Their interrogation led to the recoveries of 124 more stolen bikes and scooters parked at various places on Sultanpuri area,” said DCP Koan. The other arrested persons were identified as Vishal, Hemant, Harish alias Kamal, Parvinder Singh, Mohammad Sharif, Kuldeep Singh, Shakti alias Golu, Sagar alias Naresh, Amit Kumar, Deepak and Amit. “The kingpin Sagar is involved in 33 cases of theft and snatching. He has also actively involved juveniles in the crimes and benefits out of the money earned by them through illegal activities,” Koan said. Of the 125 recovered bikes, 53 were stolen from areas in Rohini district, 43 from outer district areas and the remaining from west, north-west, outer-north, central, New Delhi and north-east districts, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-police-eagle-squad-recovers-125-two-wheelers-stolen-for-street-crimes-nabs-15-gang-members/story-DZ4YAPVtsuYYiEaLW6xYgL.html
10-11-2020||Noida||Aqua Line records highest ridership on Monday since it resumed services on September 7||Noida: The Noida Metro Rail Corporation’s (NMRC) Aqua Line is witnessing a steady rise in footfall since it resumed services on September 7, after the lockdown. On Monday – November 9 – it recorded a ridership of 7,165, while on September 7, its ridership was 600. This is an increase of approximately 12 times in two months of resuming services, the NMRC said.Ritu Maheshwari, NMRC’s managing director, said, “This rise can be attributed to the fact that passengers have faith in the safety standards of NMRC and consider the Aqua Line as a safe and secure mode of public transport during the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.”Sandhya Sharma, deputy general manager of NMRC, said that people use the metro to get to their offices and workplaces. “Some people travel for Diwali shopping as well. We are hopeful that the footfall will further increase in the coming days,” she said.From September 7 to 11, metro services were available in the morning hours (7am to 11am) and evening hours (5pm to 9pm), at an interval of 15 minutes. From September 12, the Aqua Line started its full fledged operations running trains throughout the day (6am - 10pm). On September 12, it had recorded a ridership of 2,148 passengers and since then the ridership has seen a steady rise. The NMRC ridership data of November shows the footfall has remained between 4,000 and 6,000 per day. On weekends, the ridership is relatively lesser. However, the post lockdown ridership is still significantly low as compared to the pre-lockdown period. The services of Aqua Line metro were suspended on March 22 due to the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. The Aqua Line had recorded 19,064, 17,720 and 16,007 commuters on March 16, 17 and 18, respectively.NMRC had ensured all precautions necessary for prevention of the spread of Covid 19 before resuming services, said officials. Sharma said NMRC is taking all necessary measures to ensure a safe journey for Aqua Line commuters. “The NMRC trains are fully sanitised after each trip. The stations, platform and other contact areas like call buttons of lifts, AFC gates, handle belts of escalators & staircases, POS machines etc. are also sanitised at regular intervals. The e-rickshaws are regularly sanitised after every journey,” she said.The 29.70 km long Aqua Line, which connects Noida to Greater Noida, has 21 stations out of which 15 are in Noida and six in Greater Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/aqua-line-records-highest-ridership-on-monday-since-it-resumed-services-on-september-7/story-2xwkkGh0ILMBuP5WPaRf4J.html
10-11-2020||Noida||Man arrested for killing friend; had concocted victim shot himself while taking selfie, say cops||Greater Noida: The Bisrakh police on Tuesday arrested Nakul Sharma, 23, for allegedly killing his friend Saurabh Mavi, 22, on Saturday. Officers said Sharma had allegedly cooked up a plot that Mavi had shot himself dead while taking a selfie with a gun. The police and forensic team gathered evidence and arrested Sharma for his involvement in the murder.The incident took place on Saturday afternoon when Sharma and Mavi were going to attend a wedding in Greater Noida. According to the police, Sharma had allegedly claimed that Mavi had shot himself while taking a selfie en route. He was rushed to a private hospital where he was declared brought dead.Police said Mavi was a resident of Dharampura village and Sharma is from Achheja village in Greater Noida. Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said Sharma and Mavi were friends and had known each other for some years. “Mavi had reached Sharma’s sweets’ shop in the afternoon in Greater Noida west on Saturday. The two persons had planned to attend a wedding in Sector Pi-3 in Greater Noida,” he said. They left the shop in Sharma’s Maruti Vitara Brezza for Pi-3. Chander said that in the afternoon, Sharma informed the police that Mavi had shot himself dead while posing with a gun for a selfie. “Sharma initially said that when they reached near Ace City roundabout in Greater Noida west, Mavi accidentally triggered the gun and a bullet was fired. The bullet hit Mavi’s chest and he was fatally wounded. Sharma rushed Mavi in the same car to Sharda hospital where he died,” Chander said.Police had detained Sharma as his statements were not coherent. “The deceased’s family members filed a complaint alleging Sharma had killed Mavi. We registered a case of murder under Section 302 of IPC. We interrogated the suspect who admitted that he had accidentally shot Sharma dead,” Chander said.Police said that the suspect has not revealed the exact reason which led to the incident. “Sharma said that a bullet was stuck in the gun’s barrel and he was trying to fix it when the gun misfired and the bullet hit Sharma,” he said. Chander said the incident took place in the jurisdiction of Knowledge Park police station but Sharma had informed the Bisrakh police about the incident. The matter will be transferred to Knowledge Park, the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/man-arrested-for-killing-friend-had-concocted-victim-shot-himself-while-taking-selfie-say-cops/story-6Zt7rXs5QvxZ0qYFt07x1L.html
10-11-2020||Noida||Sharp rise in ICU occupancy as cases from nearby cities come to Noida district||Noida: As the number of coronavirus (Covid-19) disease goes up in the Gautam Budh Nagar district, officials assure that the city has enough hospital beds, even as hospitals anticipate a surge in the number of critical patients and see an immediate need to augment intensive care unit (ICU) beds.Projecting a grim picture, the number of patients in ICUs in the district saw a surge of about a 100% in the past two days, even as the total number of patients in the hospitals has dropped. According to the official figures, Gautam Budh Nagar – comprising Noida and Greater Noida – has a total of 1,811 beds for Covid-19 in service across its 12 government and private hospitals, of which 383 beds are in ICU wards and 181 are with ventilators.As of Tuesday, there were 1,228 active cases in the district, of which 1,097 are from Gautam Budh Nagar, admitted across different hospitals of the city or home isolated, said the chief medical officer (CMO). On Tuesday, the district recorded one more fatality due to Covid-19 which has pushed the death tally to 70, while the total number of cases recorded so far is 19,531, with 119 new cases on Tuesday, according to the official data.“A of total 486 patients are home isolated while 742 patients are admitted across different L1, L2 and L3 hospitals in the district. Out of these 742 patients, a total of 131 are from other cities including Delhi,” said Dr Deepak Ohri, CMO. As of Tuesday morning, out of the total of 1,811 Covid-19 beds in the city, 742 beds were occupied, leaving 1,069 beds available. While on Monday, there were a total of 1,127 beds available. “We have enough or rather, more than enough beds available. There are a total of 1,811 beds in service for Covid-19, besides which we have kept 2,000 beds on reserve in case of an emergency situation. There are many patients coming here from neighbouring cities, including Delhi, Ghaziabad, Agra, etc., so we have sent clear instructions to all hospitals that they will have to inform the CMO and district magistrate’s office upon admitting any patients from other districts,” said Ohri. Fears of ICU bed shortageWhile officials say there are enough beds for the city, the issue is the number of Covid-19 patients in needing ICUs or oxygen support. Going by to official records, on Tuesday there were a total of 120 patients on oxygen support in the district, while 18 were on ventilators. This is a sharp increase from Sunday, when the number of patients in ICU was 64, of which eight were on ventilators.Meanwhile, hospitals anticipate a possible shortage in the number of ICU beds in ICU in the coming days. “Till Sunday, of the 30 ICU beds at our hospital, we had 28 occupied and three of these were High Dependency Unit (HDU). Due to the surge in critical cases, we have augmented the bed strength, by converting HDUs into ICUs. By Monday, we had 32 patients in ICU and we have already started converting some of the HDU beds into ICUs as the demand is high,” said Dr Ajit Kumar, spokesperson, Sharda University, which is Noida city’s only L3 covid-care hospital. Anticipating a need, the Government Institute of Medical Science (GIMS), Greater Noida had increased its ICU capacity from 40 beds to 80.“Currently we have about 100 Covid-19 patients, of which 40 are in ICU. Critical cases have increased and we have seen an increase of about 30% in ICU occupancy in the past week,” said Dr Saurabh Srivastava, head of the department Medicine and nodal officer of the Covid-19 team at GIMS.“Definitely there is a surge in the number of patients and many patients are coming from neighbouring cities like Delhi, Faridabad, Agra, Meerut, etc. Though we have enough beds, the only issue is that we have limited manpower,” said Dr (Brig) Rakesh Gupta, director, GIMS. At Yatharth Hospital, a private hospital with a 200 bedded Covid-19 facility, too, the number of critical Covid-19 cases has increased. “The number of critical patients has surged after Durga Puja. At present, 90% of the ICU beds are occupied, which was about 50% ten days ago,” said Yatharth Tyagi, director, Yathath Hospital. Meanwhile at Fortis Hospital in Noida, the occupancy was full. “The total Covid-19 beds are 45, of which 23 are ICU beds having eight ventilators. Currently the occupancy is 100%,” said an official from the Fortis Healthcare Limited, asking not to be identified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/sharp-rise-in-icu-occupancy-as-cases-from-nearby-cities-come-to-noida-district/story-CLAz0BjNgHtWHZ2KcD6QeL.html
10-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai airport’s RT-PCR test facility detects 100 passengers with Covid-19||Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) detected 100 Covid-19 positive passengers in around two months. The reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test facility at the Mumbai airport that started functioning for international arriving transit passengers from September, and for departing passengers from mid-October, has seen over 8,000 passengers (till November 8) signing up to undergo the test.According to airport sources, till October 14, 38 arriving passengers were detected with the Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19, and 62 tested positive in less than a month between October 15 and November 8.Of the total 8,000 passengers who signed up for the test, 6,910 were men and 1,090 were women. “A hundred passengers have tested positive till now and were transferred by the state authorities to designated Covid-19 institutions,” said a CSMIA spokesperson. “There is an increase in passenger confidence in travelling via CSMIA given the comfort, convenience and sense of safety that passengers feel with the measures adopted by the airport. These features include the launch of the RT-PCR test facility at the airport,” he added.After the aviation ministry allowed international passengers to get tested upon arrival, the airport had commenced RT-PCR testing as a measure to skip the institutional quarantine. It was also introduced to address passenger concerns regarding different Covid-19 regulations across domestic and international destinations. October 15 onwards, departing passengers too were allowed to undergo the test before travelling and could produce their negative test report to skip institutional quarantine at their destination. The airport even extended the service to non-passengers who visit the airport to drop off or pick up passengers. However, just three days after the Central government issued guidelines allowing international passengers to undergo the RT-PCR test upon arrival, aviation experts had raised safety concerns and had asked the ministry to review their guidelines. Experts believed that the guidelines issued on a pilot basis would encourage fliers to avoid getting tested and would increase the risk of Covid-positive passengers infecting others on board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-airport-s-rt-pcr-test-facility-detects-100-passengers-with-covid-19/story-o8LV44dDJ45RpxfqxWH2LO.html
10-11-2020||City||Delhi to link its hospitals digitally, connect citizen through e-health card by August 2021||New DelhiChief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said a digital health information management system (HIMS) and e-health card facility will be implemented in Delhi by August 2021. The e-health card – a QR code-based system -- will store basic demographic and health information of all the residents, and help the government in mapping all people eligible for its schemes. The HIMS will help the government in health care delivery by bringing all patient-care services, hospital administration, budgeting and planning under the system. The entire system will be cloud-based and will be supported by a website and a mobile app. The system will enable citizens to avail of all health care-related information on a single platform, which can help in cases of emergency. “With this, Delhi will become the only state to have a cloud-based health management system. This facility will also be extended to private hospitals in the future,” a release from the government said. At the same time, the central government has announced an ambitious National Digital Health Mission that will digitise all patient records, where the ID will act “like a health care account” where their entire medical history will be available. “It is our duty to ensure there is no inconvenience to the people of Delhi. This management system should be able to provide all the health care facilities to the people. Other than that, by 2021, every resident of Delhi visiting a hospital should be issued a card to avail of the benefits of government health care services. Post the issuing, we have to ensure this card is integrated with the HIMS,” the chief minister said on Tuesday. The government will also set up a centralised health helpline to ensure uninterrupted health care facilities. A call centre will be set up to provide patients help with tele-counselling, information requests, queries, complaints and follow-ups. “To ensure the effective reach of health care facilities to people, we will link the call centre facilities to the app launched under HIMS. This will resolve issues of the people effectively. This system will ensure the availability of a doctor for the people 24x7,” said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain. The CM on Tuesday had convened a meeting with health officials to ensure implementation of the HIMS and e-health card in hospitals run by the Delhi government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-to-link-its-hospitals-digitally-connect-citizen-through-e-health-card-by-august-2021/story-JMaBMeZrFyTORCWLsaForI.html
10-11-2020||City||Missing traders body found in Talasari dam near Mumbai, cops suspect murder||A week after a 29-year-old trader from Valsad, Gujarat was reported missing, his body was found floating in the Kurje dam in Talasari, on late Sunday evening. His body was tied with a boulder and then thrown in the dam to destroy evidence, said police.The victim Nilesh Kumar Rawal is a cooking oil trader and was missing since November 3. Senior inspector Ajay Vasawe of Talasari police station said, “Rawal visited Uddhwa and Talasari town every Wednesday to clear dues and take orders from grocers. As he did not return home, his wife registered a missing complaint with us on November 4.” “On November 8, evening, we were informed about a body floating in the dam waters. The body was then identified by his relatives,” said Vasawe.The unidentified accused, to destroy evidence, had tied a huge boulder around his waist and then threw the body in the dam. The victim had sustained head injuries as he may have hit the underwater rocks leading to his death, Vasawe added.“We suspect the accused knew Rawal’s weekly routine. They may have kidnapped him for money. We are probing all possible angles. We have sent the body for post-mortem and a registered case under section 302 (murder) and 364 (kidnapping) of the Indian Penal Code and are investigating further,” said Vasawe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/missing-traders-body-found-in-talasari-dam-near-mumbai-cops-suspect-murder/story-UypY8tDdchIeG7Cntfw4GO.html
10-11-2020||City||Kalyan-Dombivli to get medical college, hospital akin to those in Mumbai, says Maharashtra health minister||The twin cities of Kalyan-Dombivli will soon get help from the state to construct a medical college and hospital on par with those in Mumbai, said Maharashtra state health minister Rajesh Tope.Tope, who was in Kalyan to review the Covid-19 situation in the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) jurisdiction, expressed satisfaction that the city has shown marked improvement in recovery and flattened the curve.He said, “Healthcare infrastructure in urban areas is our priority, for which we have decided to give permission to use the reserved plots in the city to develop a 500-bed hospital under the public-private partnership basis. The hospital will have reserved beds for free treatment to the low income group. KDMC, like Mumbai, will also be allowed to develop a medical college-cum-hospital in the coming months.”Tope pointed out that once a hotspot, the Covid cases in KDMC are now under control. The number of cases, which was 500 to 600 per day in September, is now down to 100-150 per day.Tope added, “The fatality rate is also low at 1.99 per cent, the doubling rate is 300 days and the recovery rate is 96 per cent. There is a lot of improvement due to the efforts put in by the civic body. We cannot rule out the possibility of increase in cases once Diwali is over. If there is an increase in cases to 900 daily, the civic body should be ready with the accommodation facilities,” added Tope.KDMC requested for the appointment of a medical officer and a physician from the state, which Tope agreed to follow up. He also assured to develop a dedicated hospital for epidemics in Thane in the near future.“There is a need to improve the healthcare infrastructure in Thane and nearby cities. Primary talks for building an epidemic hospital in Thane are under progress,” he said. Meanwhile, Tope also said that the decision to resume local train services and reopening of temples “will be only taken after Diwali festival”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-dombivli-to-get-medical-college-hospital-akin-to-those-in-mumbai-says-maharashtra-health-minister/story-ogBzAVbiocVQM2qLIBZ24I.html
10-11-2020||Noida||After NGT ban on fire-crackers, UP govt suggests digital mode to celebrate Diwali||Ghaziabad: A day after the National Green Tribunal (NGT) directed for a ban on sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers in the national capital region till November 30, the Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday asked the NCR districts of the state, including Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar, to enforce the NGT orders and suggested digital/laser mode for celebrating Diwali. The air quality index (AQI) of Ghaziabad, Kanpur, Lucknow, Moradabad, Noida, Greater Noida, Baghpat and Bulandshahr is in the serious category, said a statement issued by UP chief secretary RK Tiwari on Tuesday.“Complying with the NGT directions, orders have been issued to celebrate Diwali in these districts using new technology like laser or digital technology,” the statement said.The district administrations of Ghaziabad and GB Nagar said that they have received the directions from the UP government but have not decided yet whether to organise laser/digital shows. Suhas LY, district magistrate of GB Nagar, said that the district officials have received suggestions for the ways to celebrate cracker-free Diwali. “We are still brainstorming the ways in which it can be done. Maybe by Wednesday we may come up with some plans. Also, large gatherings will not be possible due to Covid protocols. We have asked our officials to ensure strict compliance of the NGT order,” he added. The officials of Ghaziabad administration said that they do not have plans for such events but focussing on enforcement of NGT’s order. “We don’t have any plans as of now. Our focus is on enforcement of the NGT order. I have directed the administration officials and even the SHOs to take up strict enforcement in their respective areas. They will ensure that there is no bursting or sale of firecrackers and will have to submit affidavits to this effect,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, DM, Ghaziabad. “As regards the licences, we have received applications but not issued any licence so far. We have also received directions that issue of licences should be kept in abeyance. Further, we have also asked traders to destroy their stocks of firecrackers. There is a strict protocol for storage of firecrackers. If anyone comes up with applications, we will consider upon the trader fulfilling conditions. Otherwise, they will have to destroy the stock,” Pandey added.Residents said that the directions by the tribunal came less than a week before Diwali, so it would not be possible to make use of laser/digital ways of celebrating Diwali. “Since organising such shows requires lot of funds and time, we think it will not be possible in few days left for Diwali. Further, during the present times of the pandemic, it will not be advisable for arranging such shows which will involve large social gatherings. However, such shows can be arranged locality-wise, but it would take up herculean task for making arrangement,” said Alok Kumar, founder member of federation of association of apartment owners in Ghaziabad. Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist and Raj Nagar resident, said, “Ban on firecrackers is an opportunity for residents to find innovative ways to celebrate Diwali in a grand manner. Laser show or light show is one of the ways. It is also an opportunity for parents to tell children about celebrating Diwali in a traditional manner. I think the amount spent on firecrackers should be spent on decorative items so that local artisans can get more work and also get benefitted.”Last year during Diwali, the Delhi government had organised a mega light and sound show at Connaught Place’s Central Park in the wake of rising air pollution. The Delhi government recently said that this year it would organise a Laxmi Puja and live stream it for people to perform the rituals at their homes in the wake of pollution and Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/after-ngt-ban-on-fire-crackers-up-govt-suggests-digital-mode-to-celebrate-diwali/story-1eadhFFD5IZAmODjooXJ1L.html
10-11-2020||City||4 held for attempting to kill MNS leader in Ulhasnagar, near Mumbai||Four persons have been arrested by Ulhasnagar crime branch for attacking Maharashtra Navnirman Sena’s Ulhasnagar city president Manoj Shelar. The four had attacked Shelar in October after they received ₹70,000. The reason behind this act is still unknown.The accused have been identified as Sajid Shaikh (19 years), Deepak Tiwari (18), Rohit Kamble (19) and Vinod Giri (20). On October 8, Shelar was doing his routine morning walk near Shivmandir, Ambernath, when a few persons came on bikes and attacked him with a sword and knife before fleeing the spot. Shelar suffered injuries and was taken to a hospital. An officer from the crime branch said, “We checked the CCTV footage and phone data records of the area on the day of the attack to get information on the accused. They had been hiding since the incident. However, they started coming out of the hideout recently. We received a tip off from sources and arrested them.”One of the accused, Shaikh, has confessed to receiving a contract of ₹70,000 to attack Shelar. Police are yet to arrest the person who gave the money.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-held-for-attempting-to-kill-mns-leader-in-ulhasnagar-near-mumbai/story-GpEekt1vMEm1NN5e0G2xWN.html
10-11-2020||Noida||Air quality ‘severe’ for sixth day in Noida, Ghaziabad||Noida: The air quality of Noida, Ghaziabad and Greater Noida on Tuesday continued to reel under ‘severe’ category for the sixth day in a row, witnessing one of the worst pre-Diwali air pollution scenario in the three cities. On Tuesday, Noida’s air quality saw a marginal improvement, but the pollution levels remained well within ‘severe’ category, with average PM2.5 levels for the city was nine times higher than the standard limits.According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data, the air quality index (AQI) of Noida, on a scale of 0 to 500, on Tuesday was 455 against 477 a day earlier. The AQI value of Greater Noida was 436 against 478 a day earlier, while AQI of Ghaziabad was 444 against 482 a day earlier. However, officials of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that the meteorological conditions are likely to get better as wind directions on Tuesday noon changed from north-westerly to easterly and are picking up speed bringing a ray of hope that the trapped pollutants would start ventilating out in the next two days. “The wind directions have changed from north-westerly which is from the direction of Punjab and Haryana to the easterly. So, the current winds entering Noida, Ghaziabad and then Delhi are from the direction of Uttar Pradesh. By Wednesday, the easterly winds may increase to 10-12 kmph which may help improve the air quality a little by stopping extra stubble burning smoke entering the region and ventilating the pollutants out,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD. However, IMD said that the moisture in the air is also high with air having around 50% moisture content during afternoon hour and by the evening it increases to 90%. Experts said that due to the high moisture content, the air traps pollutants making ventilation difficult. “During winter when the air is heavy due to the moisture, the particles or aerosols get heavy as well or trapped and they get close to the ground. This worsens the situation as the pollution levels accumulate at lower height. Also, more wind speed is required to ventilate them,” said Shambhavi Shukla, programme officer (air pollution), Centre for Science and Environment (CSE). So far the local source of pollution, including construction, vehicular emissions and the smoke from stubble burning in neighbouring states brought along with north-westerly winds have made the region suffer a severe air quality since November 5. On Tuesday, the average PM2.5 levels for Noida for the past 24 hours was recorded at 547.99 microgrammes per cubic metres (ug/m3), while for Greater Noida it was 536.87 ug/m3. The average PM10 levels for Noida was 619.51 ug/m3, while for Greater Noida it was 661.49 ug/m3. As per CPCB, the PM2.5 and PM10 safe limit is 60 and 100 ug/m3, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/air-quality-severe-for-sixth-day-in-noida-ghaziabad/story-8yhtqXNsRfhHOtTKSWHyTN.html
10-11-2020||Noida||Six of 10 monitoring stations in Noida, Ghaziabad record higher PM2.5 levels than PM10 in November||Ghaziabad: With the air quality index (AQI) already running into ‘severe’ category for the past six days, most of the residents of Ghaziabad, Noida and Greater Noida are forced to breathe higher levels of much finer PM2.5 pollutants than PM10 this month. According to data of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), out of 10 monitoring stations in the three cities, six stations have recorded higher average PM2.5 levels than average PM10 levels during November 1 to November 9. The six monitoring stations are Indirapuram, Loni and Vasundhara in Ghaziabad, Sector 125 and Sector 1 in Noida, and Knowledge Park III in Greater Noida. Officials have attributed the rise in PM2.5 levels primarily to external sources, such as stubble burning and vehicular emission. “The main factors leading to higher PM2.5 levels is burning of garbage, solid waste and stubble, besides vehicular emission. At present, we do not have favourable meteorological conditions. Hence, dispersal is very less. There are already trapped pollutants in the region and fresh instances of stubble burning are also coming in,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UP Pollution Control Board (UPPCB), Ghaziabad. “Anti-smog guns are also not proving much helpful as they bring down pollutants up to a certain height, but trapped pollution layers come down again. At local level, we are even conducting night checks at industrial units and also scanning farmlands for any fire incidents,” he added. The CPCB data assessed by HT indicates that all the 10 air quality monitoring stations have also recorded their highest PM2.5 and PM10 levels of this year in November. The data also shows that PM2.5 levels were five to seven times the safe limit. The standard limit for PM2.5 is 60 micrograms per cubic metre (ug/m3) while that for PM10 is 100 ug/m3. Doctors said that high levels of PM2.5 pollutants pose severe health risks. “The very fine, PM2.5, poses a greater risk as they can get deep into lungs and even into the bloodstream, making both lungs and heart susceptible to impaired functioning. Once inhaled, part of the PM2.5 cannot be removed by the lymphatic system and enters the blood circulation through diffusion, making its way to the heart, kidneys, and other organs,” said Dr Vijay Dutta, senior consultant (internal medicine), Indian Spinal Injuries Centre, New Delhi. Echoing similar views, Dr Gyan Bharti, pulmonologist, Columbia Asia Hospital at Ghaziabad, said, “Long-term exposure to particulate matter may cause cardiovascular disorders such as cardiac arrhythmias and heart attacks. Short- to medium-term impact of exposure may cause respiratory effects such as asthma and bronchitis.” As per the CPCB data, Loni and Sanjay Nagar in Ghaziabad recorded all top five most polluted days of the year, in terms of highest PM2.5 and PM10 levels, in the current month during November 1 to 9. Likewise, Indirapuram and Vasundhara stations recorded their highest PM2.5 pollution levels of the year on four and three days, respectively, during the same period in November. Due to the high levels of PM 2.5, residents, especially senior citizens, are forced to stay indoors and curtail any outdoor activity. “The levels are so high that we have got confined to our house where air purifiers are working round the clock. Still, the breathing is heavy. Morning and evening walks are out of the question even with face masks as they turn black soon due to pollution cover. My husband and I have not moved out for the past one week now,” said Pratibha Mittal, a resident of Kaushambi in Ghaziabad. In Gautam Budh Nagar district, Greater Noida’s Knowledge Park III station has also fared badly. It has recorded all top five most polluted days of the year, in terms of highest PM2.5 and PM10 levels,in November. The city’s second monitoring station at Knowledge Park V also recorded its top five worst PM2.5 pollution level days of the year in November. The station also recorded worst four days of the year in the same period when PM10 pollution levels were the highest. All the four monitoring stations in Noida had more or less similar issues. Noida’s Sector 62 monitoring station also recorded four of five most polluted days of the year in November. City’s other three stations at sectors 125, 1 and 116 recorded at least three of top five most polluted days of the year, having highest PM2.5 pollutants, in November.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/six-of-10-monitoring-stations-in-noida-ghaziabad-record-higher-pm2-5-levels-than-pm10-in-november/story-9orVSiBSPZua1SJetDd3BN.html
10-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra education department releases revised SOPs for school reopening||Mandatory Covid-19 tests for staff, one student per bench in a class and avoiding extracurricular activities like sports, gatherings, are part of the revised standard operating procedures (SOPs) for schools released by the state education department on Tuesday.On November 7, state education minister Varsha Gaikwad announced that the government will start schools for Classes 9 to 12 from November 23. The decision subsequently got clearance from the state government, and a revised set of SOPs for school reopening was released on Tuesday. As per SOPs parents will have to sign a written consent before students attend school. Similarly, students can study from their homes with the consent of their parents and the guidelines for such a model will be released by the department shortly. State education minister Varsha Gaikwad had earlier said online learning will continue for students who wish to stay at home and study. The SOPs have retained some key precautions that need to be taken by schools, parents and local administration to ensure the safety of school staff and children once schools reopen. Sanitising school premises, daily temperature checks, conducting a mix of online and offline learning, making small groups for the practicals are some of the other guidelines issued in the SOPs. Parents said considering the fear of the infection, many might opt for online learning even after schools reopen. “We will first wait for the vaccine to come because we cannot take risk of sending children to school. We will continue with online learning,” said Anu Sinha, a parent from Thane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-education-department-releases-revised-sops-for-school-reopening/story-Y0lqO3sZM8Vjln8owuJ7iI.html
10-11-2020||Chandigarh||PU V-C playing with fire by delaying senate polls: Cong leaders||By delaying the Panjab University (PU) senate elections vice-chancellor Raj Kumar is playing with fire, former student leaders of the institute who are now members of the Congress party said here on Tuesday.Punjab Congress leaders Kuljit Singh Nagra, Dalvir Goldy and Brinder Dhillon, president, Punjab Youth Congress were present at the Students’ Centre to address the media over the poll delay. “PU is the crown of Punjab and the state’s consent is a must for any change in its structure.The V-C has started playing with fire,” Nagra said.A number of colleges in Punjab are affiliated to PU. “The senate and syndicate of PU maintain checks and balances in the functioning of the university. It is an autonomous body elected by the stakeholders of the university,” he added.The senate polls were postponed on October 15 for the second time amid apprehensions that the governing structure of the university could be changed.The Congress members said V-C was coming up with excuses to delay the polls while trying to set up a board of governors. “This is a blatant attack on the university’s autonomy,” they said.“We have come together for the sake of the University. Now Covid-19 cannot be an excuse to postpone the polls as several other elections are being held,” said Goldy.The senate is an “example of democracy and each representative of all the stakeholders is a part of the body. If the governing structure is changed it will hurt all the stakeholders,” Dhillon added.The polls, initially scheduled for August 24, were postponed by the V-C for the second time on October 15 even as the term of the senate ended on October 31, leaving PU without its supreme governing body.Earlier on Monday former senators and members of the PU syndicate held a protest on campus, demanding that the elections be held immediately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pu-v-c-playing-with-fire-by-delaying-senate-polls-cong-leaders/story-iDGCDtwUuXGfl4p67DPpbP.html
10-11-2020||City||Man arrested eight months after robbing Navi Mumbai resident||The Navi Mumbai police have arrested a 23-year-old man from Solapur on October 31, eight months after he burgled a Nerul apartment in January. Police have recovered ₹1.4 lakh worth stolen gold valuables from his possession. Kishan Vankore, 23, has a long list of burglary and theft cases against him in Navi Mumbai and Thane. He has also been profiled by the state’s Criminal Investigation Department (CID). A resident of Panvel, Vankore has been breaking into houses for over six years when he took to crime following into his father and brother’s footsteps. Vankore’s father and brother have also been arrested multiple times for similar burglaries. In January, Vankore broke into a Nerul apartment in Sector-10 and stole gold valuables worth Rs 3.78 lakh. After months of investigation, police claimed that with the help of the informant network and technical leads, they suspected Vankore’s involvement in the crime. The police then went on his trail and located him at his hometown in Akkalkot, Solapur, from where he was arrested on October 31. “The accused has at least 22 cases of theft and burglary against him registered across police stations in Navi Mumbai and Thane. He has been committing crimes since the age of 18. We are interrogating him to establish how many other houses he has burgled since his last arrest,” said Shyam Shinde, senior inspector at Nerul police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-arrested-eight-months-after-robbing-navi-mumbai-resident/story-GvlbTDK41rsxKeQIRTnhuJ.html
10-11-2020||City||AAP, BJP spar over retired employees’ insurance funds||New Delhi: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled civic bodies have collected Rs 221 crore from retired employees in the name of cashless insurance in private hospitals but did not pay the money to private hospitals. Senior AAP leader and the party’s MCD in-charge Durgesh Pathak on Tuesday said it was a “scam” and the money should be returned to the retired employees. “The BJP ruled MCD has collected Rs 221 crore from retired employees in the name of cashless insurance in private hospitals but did not pay a single paisa to the private hospitals. There are around 34,000 pensioners under the BJP-ruled MCD and these people are suffering massively due to the misgovernance and corruption. These people had opted cashless insurance scheme under the MCD and now they are suffering,” Pathak alleged. According to the scheme, retired employees would pay a certain amount to the civic bodies, which would ensure free treatment in any hospital in Delhi. Pathak said the civic bodies took money from every employee -- as Group A employees gave Rs 1.2 lakh per person, Group B employees gave Rs 78,000, Group C employees Rs 54,000 per person and Group D employees gave Rs 30,000 per person. “These retirees deposited around R.221 crore in the account of the MCDs. The civic bodies are supposed to pay regular bills to the registered hospitals under the scheme but did not pay a single penny,” Pathak said. Jai Prakash, mayor North Delhi Municipal Corporation, rejected the allegations. “The AAP is in the habit of levelling new and baseless allegations every day. All payment in connection with providing cashless health care benefits have been made to hospitals on time before the coronavirus outbreak. After the pandemic, the payment process has slowed down but we are working to streamline it. There is no scam in MCD,” he said. Praveen Shankar Kapoor, Delhi BJP spokesperson dismissed AAP allegations. “Due to financial crunch, there are problems in providing cashless treatment to pensioners in North and East DMCs during Covid. We urge Durgesh Pathak, if he is even little sensitive towards civic employees and pensioners, to ask the Arvind Kejriwal government to immediately release municipal funds, which will resolve all the crisis,” Kapoor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aap-bjp-spar-over-retired-employees-insurance-funds/story-FGglgagdr2Ms54Dd7Bp70O.html
10-11-2020||Mumbai||Food safety commissioner can pass orders on transporting contraband in Maharashtra: Bombay HC||The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay High Court has held that the July 2018 order of the commissioner under Food Safety and Standards which barred transportation of banned products like gutkha through the state of Maharashtra is valid even though the contraband is being transported between states where it is not banned. The court observed that as the 2018 notification had categorically banned manufacture, sale, distribution and transportation of such food products in state the company could not claim any reliefsA division bench of justices TV Nalawade and SD Kulkarni while hearing the petition filed by Dharampal Premchand Ltd, an Uttar Pradesh based chewing tobacco manufacturing company, was informed by advocate NS Tekale that they were challenging the July 2018 order on the ground that it was illegal and void, as the commissioner had no power to impose a ban on transportation.According to the petition, in December, 2018, a consignment of chewing products was being transported from Noida, Uttar Pradesh to the purchaser from Bidar, Karnataka in a truck. The truck was intercepted in Degloor Tehsil in Maharashtra by a Food Safety officer who checked the contents and upon finding that it contained banned food articles in violation of July 2018 prohibitory order made a complaint to the police. Both the truck and its contents were seized.Government lawyer S G Sangle opposed the petition submitted that the inspection of samples showed that they contained nicotine and therefore the action under the prohibitory order was justified.After hearing submissions, the bench referred to previous judgements and said that as per the provision of the Act, ‘food business’ contains transportation and relief in respect of seized Gutkha can be refused. The court further expressed that given decisions already rendered, it was not possible to give a different decision.When the company’s lawyer sought time to enable a Delhi lawyer to argue the matter the court observed, “Such approach and tactics cannot be tolerated and so this Court decided tthe matter based on aforesaid circumstances. In the result, the petition stands dismissed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/food-safety-commissioner-can-pass-orders-on-transporting-contraband-in-maharashtra-bombay-hc/story-2jzbb93ohPAaaD36ZnxMjN.html
10-11-2020||Mumbai||Bollywood drugs crackdown: Producer Firoz Nadiadwala’s estranged wife Shabana Saeed granted bail by Mumbai court||The Esplanade court on Tuesday granted bail to producer Firoz Nadiadwala’s estranged wife Shabana Saeed. On Sunday, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested Saeed and four others in an ongoing crackdown on the use of drugs in Bollywood. In a raid at her home in Juhu, officers found 10 gram of marijuana. Saeed was remanded in judicial custody on Monday, following which her lawyer Ayaz Khan filed for bail. “We argued that the quantity seized is very small, for which the punishment is around one-year jail. She has separated from her husband and the custody of the two kids is to remain with her. She has to look after them also,” Khan argued while seeking bail. Following a tip-off, NCB first arrested Wahid Abdul Kadir Shaikh alias Sultan Mirza from Andheri (West). During his interrogation, he revealed that he had supplied marijuana to Saeed. Shaikh has allegedly been supplying drugs from several years and is known as Sultan Mirza in the drug supply chain, said NCB officers.An NCB team immediately reached Saeed’s residence in Juhu and a search was conducted in the presence of two independent witnesses. Officers recovered 10 gram of marijuana from the property, which was procured from Shaikh. A notice was issued under section 67 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and Saeed was arrested after her statement was recorded.Apart from Saeed and Shaikh, NCB also arrested three other drug suppliers in the operation, and their questioning is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bollywood-drugs-crackdown-producer-firoz-nadiadwala-s-estranged-wife-shabana-saeed-granted-bail-by-mumbai-court/story-wIb7ku3hBs0DGAVwDNWEDJ.html
10-11-2020||Mumbai||Amid threat of second Covid-19 wave, winter session of Maharashtra legislature to be held in Mumbai instead of Nagpur||Amid the Covid-19 pandemic and potential second wave of the infection, the state legislature has decided to hold its winter session in Mumbai instead of Nagpur. The session is likely to be postponed and duration reduced depending on the Covid-19 situation over the next two weeks. The decision about holding the session in Mumbai was taken in a meeting of the Business Advisory Committee (BAC) of the state legislature on Tuesday. It was also decided to hold the budget session of the legislature in Nagpur, depending on the Covid-19 situation in February 2021. Traditionally, the winter session of the state legislature is held at Nagpur, the second capital of Maharashtra. The meeting was attended by legislative council chairman Ramraje Naik-Nimbalkar, legislative Assembly speaker Nana Patole, chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray and deputy CM Ajit Pawar. “Considering the current situation and the possibility of a rise in cases after Diwali, we have deferred the decision about the date and duration of the session. We will have another meeting of the BAC by end of the month, and will take a call whether to begin it on December 7 as scheduled or postpone it by a week or two. The decision about holding it for one week or two will also be taken in that meeting,” said Patole. Ministers from Vidarbha, including energy minister Nitin Raut, dairy development minister Sunil Kedar and leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis insisted that the session be held in Nagpur. “Holding one session in Nagpur, the second capital of the state, is mandatory as per the Nagpur Pact of 1953. We have decided to consider holding the budget session there. A final call over it will be taken by reviewing the Covid-19 situation at that time,” Patole said. The decision of shifting the winter session to Mumbai from the traditional venue of Nagpur was taken on the basis of a report by the state legislature after their review last week. After a visit by the chairman of the upper house, speaker of the lower house and officials from the legislature, they came to the conclusion that it could prove risky to hold the session in Nagpur. “At least 5,000 people, including police personnel, legislators and political workers from across the state attend the session. The employees need to report to Nagpur at least two weeks in advance and will need to quarantine as a precaution. In such a background, we recommended to avoid holding it in Nagpur,” said an official from the legislature. The option of holding the season online has been ruled out by the legislature secretariat. According to the officials from the secretariat, it will need a lot of manpower as every legislator will have to be given technical assistance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/amid-threat-of-second-covid-19-wave-winter-session-of-maharashtra-legislature-to-be-held-in-mumbai-instead-of-nagpur/story-cyBJaN0xFlW7PPMhEHRsWM.html
10-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government hikes spending on development works to 75% from 33%||In what could be seen as a sign of improvement in the state’s economy, the Maharashtra government has decided to increase spending on development works to 75% from the current restriction of 33%. The fresh relaxations announced by the state government are applicable for around 21 departments that are expected to generate revenue and create jobs, state officials said.The government has also allowed 100% spending of local area development funds allocated through Member of Legislative Assembly Local Area Development Schemes (MLALAD), and 100% spending of district planning committee (DPC) funds. An order to this effect was issued by the state finance department on Tuesday.“All the departments that make capital expenditures for revenue generation and job creation are allowed to spend 75% of the budget provisions. MLALAD are allowed to spend up to 100% of funds and development planning committees are allowed to spend 100% of funds for schemes related to general, scheduled caste and scheduled tribes,” stated the circular.The departments that are allowed to make the increased spending are industries, energy, labour, general administration, home, rural development, water resources, revenue and forest, food and civil supplies and consumer protection, social justice and special assistance, agriculture, animal husbandry, dairy development and fisheries, public health, school education and sports, medical education, urban development, tribal development, finance, public works department, soil and water conservation, Maharashtra legislature secretariat, the order added.The state government on May 4 declared a 67% cut in its spending for developmental works this fiscal, in view of the estimated revenue losses of more than ₹40,000 crore in March and April 2020, owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. The decision was taken to cope up with the financial crisis that started following the lockdown. The state had also decided not to take up new development schemes and scrap or defer the schemes that could be put on hold. Among other measures, the government had also decided to stop recruitment for government jobs.“All the 21 departments can now spend 75% of the budgeted provisions by March 31 as they majorly help in revenue generation and employment generation. If the situation improves further, the state can increase the 75% limit,” said a senior official from the finance department.“We had reduced the spending on MLALAD to 30%. Similarly, the spending on DPC was also reduced to 30%. They were also asked to spend only on Covid-19 related activities. Now, all the restrictions have been removed and spending under both the schemes can be made following the regular process,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-hikes-spending-on-development-works-to-75-from-33/story-uJywfrjR3RD5gvHWOv9FGP.html
10-11-2020||City||AAP appoints 329 block in charges in 88 constituencies: Bhagwant Mann||Punjab Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) president Bhagwant Mann and AAP affairs in-charge Jarnail Singh appointed 329 block in-charges in 88 Vidhan Sabhas on Tuesday. Addressing the new appointees, Bhagwant Mann and Jarnail Singh said that after dissolving the old organisation, the party discussed in length with volunteers and workers and took a step forward in appointing the new post-holders. They said that AAP would always carry the mantle to fight for the common people’s rights.Bhagwant Mann said that through this new organisation, AAP, with the help of common people would not only work towards forming the government in 2022 but for their welfare even after the elections. He added that with these new appointments, the ground-level worker would be more motivated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aap-appoints-329-block-in-charges-in-88-constituencies-bhagwant-mann/story-vjau9PkRNyO2ih0klNVJuM.html
10-11-2020||Chandigarh||Voters’ list revision in Chandigarh from November 16||The UT election department will start work to include names of left out residents in the voters’ list from November 16. A meeting in this regard was held under the chairmanship of Arun Kumar Gupta, chief electoral officer-cum-principal secretary home, UT, with the representatives of political parties, deputy commissioner-cum-district election officer, additional deputy commissioner-cum-ERO, and other officers. In this meeting, the political parties were briefed about the special summary revision of electoral roll-2021 and requested to give full co-operation to enrol the left out residents as voters during the revision. The process has been started in response to the Election Commission of India’s call for starting the exercise. Political parties were also requested to appoint booth-level assistant (BLA) and share their particulars with the UT election department. Further, the nodal officer of systematic voters’ education and electoral participation (SVEEP), UT, was directed to publicise the special summary revision-2021 through SVEEP activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/voters-list-revision-in-chandigarh-from-november-16/story-PHiplaQeteY8UYHnWL77iK.html
10-11-2020||City||Ludhiana: MD of de-addiction centre held for abduction, illegal confinement||Wanted in cases of kidnapping and illegal confinement, the managing director of a de-addiction centre in the city has been arrested on Tuesday. The accused was on the run for the past two years.ASI Gurdev Singh of proclaimed offender (PO) wing of Ludhiana police commissionerate said that accused Jaspal Singh Bedi, a resident of Jamalpur, was arrested from Jalandhar. The ASI added that the accused would change his location to avoid arrest.On August 30, 2018, the Dehlon police had booked Bedi and his five accomplices under Sections 365, 342, 384 and 148 of the IPC for allegedly kidnapping and illegally detaining youths on the pretext of providing them treatment for de-addiction of various types of drug abuse at the de-addiction centreA joint team of police and district health officers had then conducted a raid at the illegal de-addiction centre at Alamgir village on Duley road and rescued 43 inmates.The inmates told the police that the accused posed as police personnel from CIA staff and had kidnapped and illegally confined them in the de-addiction centre and used to extort Rs 20,000 per month from their family members on the pretext of treatment.The inmates alleged the owner of the centre also assaulted them and were subjected to inhuman treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-md-of-de-addiction-centre-held-for-abduction-illegal-confinement/story-Hxfe6ca0y9Lz3F0JuNcPjK.html
10-11-2020||City||Seven held for hatching conspiracy to commit robbery in Ludhiana||Division Number 3 police busted a gang of robbers with the arrest of seven persons on Monday and recovered six motorcycles, eight mobile phones, illegal weapons, an air gun and a toy pistol from their possession.The accused have been identified as Gagandeep Singh of Jujhar Nagar in Shimlapuri, Deepak Kumar of Guru Gobind Singh Nagar, Amanjiot Singh of Preet Nagar, Kulwinder Singh of Gaunsgarh, Vikramjit Singh of Housing Board Colony in Jamalpur, Lovedeep Singh of Guru Nanak Colony of Jhabewal and Shiv Kumar of Ram Nagar.SHO at Division Number 3 police station inspector Satish Kumar said that the accused were arrested from a vacant plot in Shivaji Nagar, while they were hatching a conspiracy to commit a robbery.The accused were arrested following a tip-off. Kumar added that the accused have confessed their involvement in 10 incidents of snatchings. More important information is expected from the accused during questioning.An FIR under Sections 399, 402 of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act have been lodged against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/seven-held-for-hatching-conspiracy-to-commit-robbery-in-ludhiana/story-XfyuENY9mqNKdGgh91gy7O.html
10-11-2020||Gurugram||DTCP carries out inspection drive of DLF Phase-2||The department of town and country planning (DTCP) on Tuesday conducted an inspection drive of DLF Phase-2 and found several commercial activities being carried out on vacant residential plots in violation of rules. DTCP officials said that the inspection by enforcement team was carried out after a number of complaints were received from local residents regarding commercial activities leading to frequent jams, overcrowding and pollution. RS Bhath, district town planner(DTP), enforcement, said that during the inspection, they found 10 big eateries (dhabas) operating in residential areas and several other commercial activities being operated in the area. “We found dhabas operating on the Dakshin Marg, where we also found service centres and other shops. Local residents allege that these lead to pollution and overcrowding in the area.These shops have been identified and soon notices will be issued to the owners, who will be asked to vacate,” said Bhath. In case, the commercial activities are not stopped, the department will carry out a large-scale demolition drive, he said. Apart from DLF Phase 2, the department also carried out an inspection in Palam Vihar, where it was found that several green areas along the main road have been encroached upon by owners and converted into parking bays. Bhath said that pedestrians are being forced to use roads as footpaths as many are encroached upon. “The matter was brought to our notice by residents,” he said, adding that encroachment of roads, green areas and commercial activities in residential areas would not be allowed. The enforcement department, he said, is also planning to carry out an awareness campaign at large construction sites to make workers and stakeholders aware of pollution, and take steps to curb it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/dtcp-carries-out-inspection-drive-of-dlf-phase-2/story-dmyp2TvRNKvJDJgVpZZ3kK.html
10-11-2020||Gurugram||Health department to focus on targeted testing, mask discipline to tackle rising Covid cases||Cases of Covid-19 continued to increase in the district with 714 new infections being reported on Tuesday. Considering several factors behind the resurgence of cases, including mask violations, the state administration is planning to increase enforcement of wearing masks in the urban and rural areas of the district, along with the targeted testing.In a meeting with the officials of district administration and other government agencies, state government officials on Tuesday directed that strict enforcement of mask discipline has to be ensured by the urban local body, the police and panchayat.Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, said, “The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram(MCG), the Gurugram Police are the designated agencies for enforcement of Covid-19 preventive measures.” Another senior official, privy to the matter, said, “This time, panchayats are to be roped in. They will keep a check on people in their respective villages as movement has increased during the festive season.” KK Rao, commissioner of police, Gurugram, said, “Challans issued against people for not wearing face mask is likely to be increased further, with a focus on congested market areas along with gathering in public places.” For the health department, the focus now would be on more testing. Nearly 65% tests have to be Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) and 35% antigen tests. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO), said, “The department has been doing enough testing. Our cumulative positivity rate is still under 10% due to our high testing rate. The time is to educate people about Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.” On Tuesday, the total tally of Covid-19 cases reached 36,153. Out of these, 5,567 are active cases, while 30,355 have recovered from the illness. With one death recorded on Tuesday, the Covid-19 toll has reached 231. Total cases in Haryana has also reached a count of 1,87,777, of which 17,421 are active. In the last 24 hours, 16 Covid-19 deaths have been reported across the state, with the total reaching 1,935.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/health-department-to-focus-on-targeted-testing-mask-discipline-to-tackle-rising-covid-cases/story-fRrvoNHYlBzgBzxL8mW99J.html
10-11-2020||Gurugram||Residents protest against smart meters, claim inflated power bills||Around 300 residents marched from Panchayat Bhawan to Mini Secretariat, near Rajiv Chowk, protesting against the installation of smart electricity meters by the electricity department. They raised the issue of inflated power bills and demanded a waiver for electricity charges during the three months of lockdown. Residents of New Palam Vihar, Palam Vihar, Sai Kunj, Bajghera and several colonies gathered under the aegis of Jan Adhikar Sanghathan and took out the protest march around 11am. They also submitted a memorandum, addressed to the chief minister, to the district administration officials. “The smart meters are not accurate and compared to normal meters, the readings are 30 to 49% higher. The DHBVN {Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam} is issuing inflated bills and consumers are getting double to triple the bills they used to get in the past. The DHBVN has been changing meters frequently in the last few years, but there is no benefit to the consumers due to this spending,” said Bir Singh Beeru Sarpanch, who heads the Sanghathan. The delegation also asked the government to waive off three months of electricity bill for the lockdown period on humanitarian grounds, as a large number of people lost their jobs. The consumers also demanded that billing should be done on monthly basis so that bills are not calculated at the highest slab. “Thousands of crores have been given to power companies as relief for pandemic losses and it is pertinent the government also offers relief to consumers on similar lines,” Rakesh Rana, president, Sai Kunj residents’ welfare association (RWA). Kuldip Dahiya, president, Sahib Kunj RWA, said that electricity consumers across the city have decided to unite and oppose the installation of smart meters as these are too inaccurate. “We will submit memorandums, hold protests and refuse to pay bills if the government does not accept our demand,” he said. The DHBVN, under the Smartgrid project, has so far installed 100,000 smart meters, with a target of 300,000 smart meters for the city. However, there has been a slew of complaints by residents, who have alleged multiple problems, which mostly lead to inflated bills. Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, Gurugram, said that the concerns raised by city residents would be sent to government for consideration. “The concerns raised by city residents would be sent to the government,” said Khatri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/residents-protest-against-smart-meters-claim-inflated-power-bills/story-Tbfn9D9rApHlQK6imqw29H.html
10-11-2020||Gurugram||Sharpshooter of Kaushal gang killed, another injured after shoot-out in Manesar||A most-wanted sharpshooter working with the Kaushal gang was killed and another injured after an alleged crossfire with the police near Bar Gujjar village in Manesar in the early hours of Tuesday. The police said at least 20 bullets were exchanged with the two alleged criminals during a brief chase, in which both suffered three gunshot wounds. They were rushed to the Civil Hospital in Sector 10A for treatment where one succumbed to injuries and the other was referred to Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi after being reported to be stable, said the police. Two countrymade pistols, 20 live cartridges, a backpack and a Swift car were allegedly recovered from their possession. The criminals were identified as Rohit alias Lambu (23) of village Kakrola in Gurugram and Sitender Pathak alias Gudda (30) of Panna in Madhya Pradesh. Rohit died during treatment at the hospital due to heart failure. The police said there was a reward of ₹25,000 for information leading to his arrest by Gurugram and Faridabad police. He was wanted for more than 50 cases of murder, attempt to murder, extortion, loot and robbery, the police said. KK Rao, commissioner of police, said that the suspects, close aides of Kaushal, have been together involved in over 100 cases of murder, attempt to murder, kidnapping, extortion and carjacking, including the murder of Haryana Congress leader Vikas Chaudhary after he denied to pay ₹1 crore as protection money to Kaushal. “Rohit used to work in close coordination with Kaushal and handled his hawala transactions from different locations. He was involved in criminal cases in Palwal, Faridabad, Pataudi and Gurugram. His task was to collect phone numbers of industrialists, hoteliers, businessmen and sweet shop owners after conducting reconnaissance of these cities. Later, he made extortion calls and threatened the victims. In many cases, he along with aides, also shot small videos of the victims’ family members to threaten them. He had details of people from Gurugram, Faridabad, Jhajjar and Rewari,” said Rao. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police, said that crime investigation unit of Sector 17 received a tip-off that one of the wanted criminals will reach Gurugram around 2.30 am, along with his aide, to rob a businessman. “The crime team placed a barricade on Tauru-Naurangpur Road around 2.15am and deployed a team of 10 policemen. A speeding Swift car was seen coming towards the barricade and despite the presence of police team they broke the barricades. There was another team 50 metres ahead. The criminals also tried to drive over them, but lost control and rammed into divider. They tried to flee from the spot and fired at police teams,” he said. The police said they warned them to surrender but they continuously fired at them and in retaliation they shot five rounds, out of which three hit them and they fell on the ground. The police said inspector Narender Chauhan had a narrow escape after two bullets just crossed near his right ear and one hit his chest . He was wearing a bulletproof jacket, which saved him. The car used in crime was robbed from Pataudi five months ago, said the police.A case under sections 186(obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant), 307 (attempt to murder), 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code(IPC) and sections 25/27-54-59 of Arms Act was registered at Kherki Daula police station on Tuesday, said the police. A team was formed on Tuesday to conduct raids at locations where these two criminals were operating from. They have been changing locations and have revealed that there are 20 more people in their gang, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/sharpshooter-of-kaushal-gang-killed-another-injured-after-shoot-out-in-manesar/story-RWzY2a2ykkb69xuCtBKjkK.html
10-11-2020||Gurugram||Cyber city accident: Two policemen suspended for negligence in investigation||Two policemen, including the station house officer (SHO) of DLF Phase 2 police station, were suspended on Monday for negligence in the investigation of an accident in which a 49-year-old chief financial officer (CFO) of a private company was killed by car driven allegedly by a minor in DLF Cyber City on August 23, said the police. KK Rao, commissioner of police, said that apart from shoddy investigation, there were several other reasons too for the suspension, due to which the action was taken. “There are clear instructions to all the officials to carry out a fair investigation and ensure justice to the victim’s family. The family had approached the SHO several times but he had not given them any satisfactory reply nor did he share any information regarding the investigation. There was no transparency shown in the case and the victim’s family had no clue what the police were doing in the case,” he said. Aman Beniwal, SHO, and sub-inspector Hari Om were handling the case and the family members had complained that they were not conducting a fair investigation. Further, required sections had not been added in the first information report (FIR). Mihika Wahi Gupta, wife of the deceased, Alok Gupta, said that she had met the commissioner on Monday and told him how she was running from pillar to post to get justice in the case. She said due to the weak sections and lack of proper investigation, the culprits got bail on the spot. “The car owner, who is equally responsible, should have been booked under section 308 of Indian Penal Code(IPC) as he had given his car to minors. Section 304(2) was not added for the co-passenger. The police also did not take digital footprints of the juvenile behind the wheel, school character certificate, call logs and previous track records,” she said. Gupta said the police were yet to conduct the DNA test of the blood found inside the car on the driving seat. “The police should have investigated who served liquor to the minors and which was the other car that was racing with the car involved in the accident. The car owner’s statement is yet to be recorded before the judicial magistrate, confirming that he was not driving the car,” she said. The accident took place on August 23 around 6am, when the victim, Alok Gupta, was on his way to Noida on his Harley Davidson motorcycle. A Ford Figo, in which two juveniles were allegedly travelling, had rammed into the divider and hit his motorcycle across the carriageway. Gupta had succumbed to injuries and, at the time, the police had registered an FIR against the juvenile driver and owner of car, who is a friend of the driver’s father, under sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) and 304 A (death by negligence) of IPC. The family of the deceased had been demanding that the police invoke more stringent sections against the accused persons. They had also demanded that the police make the parents of the juvenile driver, and the juvenile co-passenger of the car, a party in the case. On October 5, the police had booked the accused juvenile driver under Section 304 part-2 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of Indian Penal Code (IPC). The section, which is non-bailable, was added to the FIR after the police sought legal opinion in the case. Later, the police added sections 184 (driving dangerously) and 185 (driving by a drunken person or by a person under the influence of drugs) of the Motor Vehicles (MV) Act against the juvenile driver and section 199 A of the MV Act against the car owner. Both were held and released on bail, said the police. The accident and the subsequent handling of the case by the police evoked widespread protests by the family and friends of the victim. On September 26, at least 400 people including family members, friends, cyclists, carrying placards and banners, had taken out a solidarity march from DT Mega Mall to the crime spot near DLF Phase 2 Rapid Metro station, demanding justice and action against the alleged perpetrators. Similar protests were held in Gurugram, Delhi, Noida, Nagpur, Lucknow, Indore and Jaipur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/cyber-city-accident-two-policemen-suspended-for-negligence-in-investigation/story-fPcQe0WRRpQeJbl0VckO4J.html
10-11-2020||Gurugram||DC confirms cracker ban in Gurugram||Withdrawing a previous order that allowed the use of firecrackers for two hours on Diwali, deputy commissioner Amit Khatri on Tuesday declared a complete ban on firecrackers in the district till November 30, in compliance with the National Green Tribunal (NGT) order and state government directiveNon-compliance will be dealt with strictly by the Gurugram police and Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB), the order stated. At least 10 shops and godowns of firecrackers in the district were also sealed on Tuesday, according to the Gurugram police.Earlier this week, licensed traders were allowed to sell green crackers and eight designated spots were designated for cracker bursting on Diwali. The revised order issued on Tuesday, however, stated that the new order supersedes all the previous orders issued by the district administration.On Monday, the NGT imposed a blanket ban on the sale or use of crackers in Delhi-NCR from midnight of November 9 till the midnight of November 30. The NGT, in its order, highlighted that the use of any type of crackers is hazardous. It stated that it is harmful to the lungs and eyes, and especially poses a problem for the elderly. The use of crackers will further aggravate the pollution problem in the region, which is already under toxic air.KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said that following the latest order, the task of sealing cracker shops and warehouse has already started in the district. “Gurugram Police is keeping a vigil on the shops and godowns dealing in firecrackers. Till Diwali, all firecracker shops will be sealed to avoid any violation of the order. If anyone is found involved in sale and purchase or bursting of firecrackers, action will be taken against them under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005,” said Rao.Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act is applied when a person refuses to comply with the directions issued by the government and is a punishable offence. As reported by HT on Tuesday, at least 32 people were booked in the last two days for bursting firecrackers in residential areas despite repeated warnings. According to Rao, 40 teams have been formed to keep a check on the activities in different parts of the city. Police have also reached out to residents’ welfare association to circulate orders on a complete ban on firecrackers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/dc-confirms-cracker-ban-in-gurugram/story-V6KBxSgK2TTjp1KJvyuI1O.html
10-11-2020||Gurugram||‘Severe’ air persists, no change in strategy||Even as the city endured a fourth consecutive day of ‘severe’ air on Tuesday, recording an air quality index (AQI) of 427 on the Central Pollution Control Board’s daily bulletin, Gurugram’s local strategy to deal with the crisis remains largely unchanged, officials revealed. Measures implemented under the Centre’s Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) for ‘severe’ air are already in place, and will be intensified in the days leading up to Diwali, officials said, but added that mere enforcement of Grap protocols is unlikely to provide immediate relief from smog that has settled this past week.“At the moment, we are intensifying dust control measures in old Gurugram and stepping up inspections in newer sectors, where we have noticed violations of garbage dumping and burning. We have also started taking air samples to check for firecracker emissions,” said Shakti Singh, the Haryana State Pollution Control Board’s (HSPCB) regional officer for Gurugram.Although he did not provide specific details, Singh said that night patrolling and field inspections to check for polluting activities have been increased in the past two days. “Merely enforcing Grap measures is not going to make the smog go away. They are only so that we don’t worsen the present situation,” he added.Experts, too, were in agreement with the view. Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director, research and advocacy, at the Centre for Science and Environment, said, “There is an airlock above Delhi-NCR, and simply implementing the Grap is not going to have much of an impact on the pollution load. But these measures are important nevertheless, if implemented with a zero-tolerance policy. As for relief from the present smog episode, we have to wait for meteorology do its job.”Deputy commissioner Amit Khatri, when asked if the district administration is considering any major change to their policy against air pollution or if any additional measures beyond those specified in the Grap are on the cards, directed the questions to additional deputy commissioner Prashant Panwar and city magistrate Brahamprakash Ahlawat.Panwar said, “We are monitoring the situation and have passed some orders regarding pollution control.” However, he did not disclose further details or elaborate on the orders.Ahlawat said, “Our strategy going forward is to intensify Grap measures which are already in place, namely mechanised road sweeping and sprinkling of water. There has not been any discussion yet of implementing harsher restrictions, such as a complete ban on construction. We will, however, be implementing the NGT’s blanket ban on firecrackers.”A senior HSPCB official, seeking anonymity, said that the state government and district authorities are unlikely to roll out further measures independently. “Policy level guidelines were earlier given by the EPCA {Environment Pollution (Prevention & Control) Authority}, and implemented by local authorities after suggestions from the HSPCB. Since that body has now been dissolved, we are awaiting instructions from the newly appointed CAQM {Commission for Air Quality Management}. The Commission had earlier this week made some recommendations to control air pollution given the present situation, but those measures are already part of the Grap.”The HSPCB, nodal authority for the implementation of the Grap, is expected to issue fresh orders to all deputy commissioners on Wednesday regarding the ongoing situation. S Narayanan, member-secretary, HSPCB, said, “The CAQM on Tuesday held a meeting with the chief and principal secretaries of NCR states. Pursuant to their discussion, deputy commissioners concerned will be given instructions regarding air quality regulation on Wednesday. We can share the order copy once issued.”While Gurugram’s air quality did improve slightly from Monday, when the AQI was 482, due to a change in wind direction, pollution levels remain extremely hazardous. Official forecasts do not predict a significant improvement in the situation. The ministry of earth science’s early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR states, “Significant improvement in Air Quality is not likely owing to slow wind speed in particular during night time. The air quality is likely to remain in Severe category on 11.11.2020 and Severe to Very Poor category on 12.11.2020.”As per CPCB’s forecast, Gurugram’s AQI on Wednesday is expected to hover around 393, in the upper end of the ‘very poor’ category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/severe-air-persists-no-change-in-strategy/story-ByZwNodWn7vqlD3I8UaJzN.html
10-11-2020||Chandigarh||PU’s controller of exams appointed as V-C of Rayat Bahra University||Panjab University’s controller of examinations Parvinder Singh has been appointed as the vice-chancellor of Rayat Bahra University, Mohali.The announcement was made in an office order issued by the chancellor of Rayat Bahra University Gurvinder Singh Bahra on Tuesday. Parvinder Singh has been appointed as the V-C for five years from the date of joining. According to the office order, he will be allowed to take a notional break on December 30 and 31, 2022 to wind up his previous post. Parvinder was appointed as controller of examination of PU in 2013. Before that, he was a teacher in the department of chemistry at Post Graduate Government College, Sector 42, Chandigarh, for 22 years during which he headed the department for six years.He is a life member of the Teaching Education Research Association of the USA and the North America Education Institute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pu-s-controller-of-exams-appointed-as-v-c-of-rayat-bahra-university/story-r5IVEt2zKfNjj0t8Ota5XN.html
10-11-2020||Chandigarh||TATA Steel PGTI Players Championship 2020 Day 2: Kochhar moves to first place||Chandigarh golfer Karandeep Kochhar played a card of four-under-68 to finish at the first position after the second round of the ongoing TATA Steel PGTI Players Championship 2020 presented by Chandigarh Golf Club on Tuesday.Kochhar, playing on his home course, climbed one spot from his overnight tied second, taking his tally to 10-under-134.Overnight leader Adil Bedi played one-over-73 to a tied eighth position at six-under-138.Delhi-based Arjun Prasad carded the day’s joint lowest score of 67 to move up 10 spots to joint second at eight-under-136. Mysuru’s Yashas Chandra struck a 68 to also be tied second, he made a gain of four spots. Both Arjun and Yashas played their second rounds at the Panchkula Golf Club.Each half of the field has so far played a round each at the Chandigarh Golf Club and the Panchkula Golf Club. The action (third and fourth round) now shifts to Chandigarh.The halfway cut came down to two-over-146 as 53 professionals made it to the money rounds.Twenty-one-year-old Karandeep Kochhar (66-68), the runner-up in Panchkula last week, continued his consistency in the tricity swing with another solid effort where he picked up five birdies in exchange for a lone bogey.Kochhar, whose only win on the PGTI came in 2016 while he was still an amateur, got his round going with a birdie on the second where his good chip left him an easy tap-in. He collected another birdie on the third and made a couple of great par saves on the ninth and 10th.An accurate approach shot on the 12th earned Kochhar his third birdie. He also drove well to pick up birdies on the 13th and 16th, both par-5s. The tall and lanky golfer’s first bogey of the week came on the 16th.“I’ve been quite consistent since last week so I’m happy about that. I dropped my first bogey today in three rounds (including the last round from last week’s event) and that gives me a lot of confidence going forward. Overall, a good round despite missing out on birdie chances on the last two holes, especially the lip out on the 18th. I’ll have the comfort of playing in my home conditions in Chandigarh on the last two days, so look forward to making the most of it,” said Kochhar.Arjun Prasad (69-67), another 21-year-old, produced a top-notch 67 featuring six birdies and a bogey. Prasad’s round was highlighted by two birdie conversions from a range of 15 to 20 feet as well as his bunker shot on the 11th and tee shot on the par-3 13th that set up four-footers for birdie.“It’ll be fun to play alongside Karandeep in the leader group tomorrow. We’ve both grown up playing a lot of golf together but it’s been a while since we played our last round together. So look forward to it,” said Prasad.Yashas Chandra (68-68) posted a second straight 68 to share second place with Arjun. Yashas’ round included seven birdies, a bogey, and a double-bogey.Chandigarh’s Akshay Sharma (68), the winner on the PGTI last week, was in a four-way tie for fourth at seven-under-137 along with Gurugram’s Veer Ahlawat (71), who slipped two spots from his overnight tied second, Chandigarh’s Ranjit Singh (67) and Kolkata’s Shankar Das (69).Chandigarh’s Ajeetesh Sandhu, Patna’s Aman Raj, Kolkata’s Viraj Madappa, and Bengaluru’s Khalin Joshi were all bunched in tied 21st at two-under-142.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/tata-steel-pgti-players-championship-2020-day-2-kochhar-moves-to-first-place/story-v9pD9aUazAnXFK9Kqk7DML.html
10-11-2020||Chandigarh||Sub registrar in vigilance custody, but 66 land deeds registered in his office||In startling findings, a departmental inquiry report against Zirakpur naib tehsildar (sub registrar) Varinder Pal Singh Dhoot has revealed that 66 land deeds were registered under his name on November 2, when he was not present in office in the morning. It was also the day on which he was arrested by the Punjab vigilance bureau (VB) for his involvement in a scam involving 1,295 acres of shamlat land in Mohali’s Seonk village. Tehsildar Sukhpinder Kaur and assistant commissioner Manish Rana conducted the probe on the orders of district magistrate Girish Dayalan and submitted the report to the district magistrate on Tuesday.First registry at 1.45 pm, arrest at 2.30 pmInvestigations revealed that 66 documents were allegedly marked to Dhoot for registration with his signature on the day of his arrest.The first registry was done at 1:45 pm and the last one around 6 pm with photographs of the applicants without that of Dhoot – exempted anyway due to Covid-19. Dhoot’s final signatures were required on the documents even as the other parties and witnesses had signed on the papers.The report stated that, on November 2, Dhoot was in Hoshiarpur and later in Chandigarh before being arrested at around 2.30 pm. Dhoot was not present at the time of the registration of documents, the report said. It was also clear that the documents had been registered without the registering officer seeing or identifying the parties – in violation of the Registration Act, 1908.It was believed that the registry clerk and five other employees had earlier written in a statement that Dhoot was present in office till 12:30 pm and the registries were marked by him. The documents were registered on his directions with the understanding that he would return to finally sign off the papers.The statement was later withdrawn when call details records (CDRs) were presented to the party concerned. Some parties that had their documents registered on November 2, when contacted on phone, said they did not meet Dhoot at any point of time.When asked to comment on the matter, Dayalan said, “we will hold a departmental inquiry against registry clerk and other related officials for concealing the facts, following which action will be initiated.” What the Registration Act statesAccording to the Act, no document can be registered unless the persons executing such document, or their representatives... appear before the registering officer within the time allowed for presentation under sections 23, 24, 25 and 26. The registering officer may, in order to satisfy himself that the persons appearing before him are the persons they represent themselves to be, or for any other purpose contemplated by this Act, can examine any one present in his office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sub-registrar-in-vigilance-custody-but-66-land-deeds-registered-in-his-office/story-K1Hfxv7V2S273cN28AeN4H.html
10-11-2020||Chandigarh||22-year-old man booked for rape of minor wife||Seven months after he married his 16-year-old friend, a 22-year-old man living in Maloya has been booked for the rape of his minor wife. The man, who works as a painter, had reportedly eloped with his minor friend and returned a week later. However, his family refused to accept his wife and soon the relationship between the couple became strained, following which he refused to live with her.On her complaint the police reportedly got her medical examination done and found she was a minor, aged about 16 years even though the girl maintained she was a major.A case under section 376 of the Indian Penal Code and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act was registered against the man, who is yet to be arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/22-year-old-man-booked-for-rape-of-minor-wife/story-sgWiMC3AMMaCfoidohcy7K.html
10-11-2020||Chandigarh||Covid tests in Chandigarh markets with high footfall||Random Covid-19 testing will now be done in markets with high footfall ahead of Diwali, UT health department officials have said. UT health officials marshalling resources for the testing said five teams would be going to the markets to do everything possible to stop eventualities of super spreading events in the markets.The UT has witnessed a surge in Covid-19 cases since the onset of November after a decline in October. Cases and deaths peaked in September. “The teams deployed will request salespersons and shop owners besides customers in the markets to get tested. We have started the process and covered a few peripheral markets. In the next few days, the focus will be on the main markets, including Sector 17 and Elante Mall. The schedule will be prepared a day before,” said Dr VK Nagpal, UT joint director, health department.In the last one month, random samples collected by the department have had positivity rates of around 3%, with 101 infections detected in 3,000 tests through rapid antigen kits. So far, people from the market areas have not come forward for voluntary testing.However, a large number of people turning up at dispensaries had been tested. “The health department vehicles do not attract many people in the markets. However, people coming in dispensaries are encouraged to undergo tests. So sampling in dispensaries is also important to keep the testing numbers above 1,000 in a day,” said a senior health official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-tests-in-chandigarh-markets-with-high-footfall/story-undYUBcKaGYEHPhnAOCWYL.html
10-11-2020||City||Delhi Police gets cracking to implement firecracker ban||New Delhi: A day after the National Green Tribunal (NGT) imposed a total ban on the sale and use of all kinds of firecrackers in Delhi-NCR from the midnight of November 10 to the midnight of December 1, Delhi Police on Tuesday said they have come up with an action plan to implement the ban. Senior officers said, police station-wise teams have been constituted to intensify patrolling in coordination with resident welfare associations (RWAs) and NGOs in order to ensure zero cracker bursting or illegal sale of firecrackers. Schools have been asked to encourage children not to burst crackers, they said.Additional spokesperson of Delhi Police Anil Mittal said that as a part of their action plan against the sale of firecrackers, all district deputy commissioners of police have constituted police station-wise teams to supervise implementation of the NGT order. Beat staff will be briefed by station house officers and special flying squads will patrol areas to check any sale by licensed or unlicensed sellers in their district, Mittal said.“All temporary fireworks licence holders have been informed in writing about the cancellation of all licences. Police teams will inspect all licencees, seal the stock and ensure its storage in safe custody of the licensee so that they are not misused. Any unauthorised stock of crackers will be seized and legal action will be initiated against them,” he said.The officer said all permanent licences, issued by the licensing unit as well as by the Joint Chief Controller Explorer office, Faridabad, are to be suspended and licensees be informed in writing.“The inventory and stock registers should be checked regularly to prevent any sale or diversion of the stock. Dedicated teams of thhe licensing unit have been constituted to carry out inspections,” he said.Mittal said special teams have been set up by SHOs to ensure no fire crackers are burned before, during or after Diwali. Senior officers will coordinate with RWAs and NGOs about the new directives.“School authorities conducting online class have been approached to motivate students not to burst crackers. Legal action will be taken against violators,” Mittal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-police-gets-cracking-to-implement-firecracker-ban/story-DJ0K2gGTbwS1edabT50Z9H.html
10-11-2020||City||No conversion charges if manufacturing units shift to hi-tech and services sectors in Delhi||New Delhi: Manufacturing units in Delhi’s industrial areas will not have to pay conversion charges if they decide to switch over to the hi-tech and services sectors, industries minister Satyendar Jain said on Tuesday. Jain said if entrepreneurs wants to change their industry, they will not be charged a conversion fee as the Delhi government has decided to waive it off.“We are not removing the old industries, we are just making them shift to hi-tech services. Second, we have increased the floor area ratio (FAR) of certain industrial plots irrespective of their sizes. The new FAR has been approved as per industrial standards,” Jain said in a meeting with representatives of industrial associations.Sanjay Vig, general secretary of the Industrial Area of Mangolpuri, said this will reverse the traditional trend for the industries in Delhi. “It will cut down industrial and labour cost, generate employment and prove to be a positive development for the industries in Delhi,” he said.According to a recent notification issued by the government, only hi-tech and service industries will be allowed to operate in new industrial areas in Delhi. The old manufacturing industries have the option to switch to the hi-tech and service sector.“As per amendments to the Master Plan 2021, hi-tech industries will be set up in the new industrial areas, something that we were trying for the past four years,” Jain said.The old industrial areas will have the option to shift to new sectors, including computer hardware and software industries, offices of lawyers, media and chartered accountants, IT-enabled services, internet and e-mail providers, and call centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-conversion-charges-if-manufacturing-units-shift-to-hi-tech-and-services-sectors-in-delhi/story-Dt0UbRig3uxZ70hb5E9NxN.html
10-11-2020||City||Teenager beaten to death by five persons for asking them to stand away from his father’s bus in Delhi||New Delhi: A 17-year-old boy was beaten to death, allegedly by five persons, including two minors, after he asked them to stand away from his father’s newly bought mini-tourist bus in outer Delhi’s Bakhtawarpur near Alipur on Tuesday afternoon, the police said. All the five alleged attackers were apprehended by the evening and were being questioned. They were not officially arrested or apprehended till the time of filing this report. At least two of them were below the age of 18 years, the police said. Additional deputy commissioner of police (Rohini) Jitendra Kumar Meena, who is looking after the charge of DCP (outer-north) in his absence, said that around a week ago, the teenager, Karan Pal, and the five persons had an altercation after he asked them to stand away from his father’s tourist bus. “The five persons are students of a private coaching institute, which is near the workplace of the teenager’s father. The bus was parked after washing. The students were standing near it with their female classmate. The teenager asked them to stand away from the bus. It led to an altercation between them. However, locals intervened and the five persons left the place,” said additional DCP Meena. On Tuesday around 2 pm, the teenager was walking towards his father’s workplace when the five persons allegedly cornered him and rained kicks and punched on him. The teenager fell unconscious. By the time his father and brother could come to his rescue after being informed about the fight by a local person, the alleged attackers had fled, said the officer. The teenager was rushed to a nearby hospital where he was declared brought dead. A case of murder was registered and investigation was taken up. The investigating team collected information about the suspects through local enquiry. Investigators learnt that the suspects were students of a local coaching centre and their altercation with the teenager a week ago. “We identified the suspects and apprehended them from their respective homes in outer Delhi. They are being questioned to ascertain the exact sequence of the events leading to the fight and the teenager’s murder,” said an investigator, who did not want to be named. There were rumours that the teenager had seen the five persons allegedly harassing a girl and had protested against it on the day of the altercation. The five persons had threatened him with dire consequences. Additional DCP Meena, however, denied it, saying that the girl was a student of the coaching centre and she was known to the five persons. “We also heard about the harassment issue. But we enquired about it and found that nothing such had happened. There is no such complaint as well from any girl,” added Meena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/teenager-beaten-to-death-by-five-persons-for-asking-them-to-stand-away-from-his-father-s-bus-in-delhi/story-Df3M103PDcl2YGgNrsQ4NP.html
10-11-2020||Chandigarh||Post-matric scholarship scam report sought from Punjab: Centre to HC||The Centre on Tuesday told the Punjab and Haryana high court that a report detailing the alleged misappropriation of funds meant for post-metric scholarship in Punjab has been sought by the central government.The Union ministry of social justice and empowerment told court that a written communiqué was sent to the Punjab government on August 31 this year, however, a response is still awaited.In view of the seriousness of the matter, on September 4, a joint secretary-level committee was also set up to probe the alleged misappropriation. The report is still awaited, the ministry told the HC.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Punjab government are yet to submit their responses. Now, the plea will be taken up for hearing on January 27.The response came to a public interest litigation (PIL) seeking CBI probe into the scam. The plea was filed by Satbir Singh Walia, a Chandigarh resident, in September.The central government-sponsored scheme is aimed at giving scholarships to meritorious students belonging to economically weaker sections so as to provide better opportunities for higher education.The plea had demanded transfer of probe to CBI and registration of FIRs against the officials responsible for the embezzlement. Despite reports of embezzlement three years back, no action has been taken against anyone till date, the petitioner had alleged.Centre and Punjab have appointed new teams to reinvestigate the matter. However, neither has clarified as to whose report will be deemed final and both are investigating on their own without lodging any FIRs, the petitioner added.It seems both have no intentions to take any action against the people involved in the scam even as the report by additional chief secretary Kirpa Shankar Saroj, prima facie establishes that the scam did take place and there is involvement of high-level official among others, the petitioner said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/post-matric-scholarship-scam-report-sought-from-punjab-centre-to-hc/story-vNzQHsyGm850s5RqxgtGRI.html
10-11-2020||City||Staff calls off strike after North MCD offers to pay one month’s salary||New Delhi: Thousands of civic employees who had been protesting against non-payment of salaries on Tuesday called off their indefinite strike after a meeting with the civic authorities who agreed to pay pending salaries and pensions. Civic employees, majority of them from North Delhi Municipal Corporation, had gone on an indefinite strike on Monday against pending salaries of 3-4 months. AP Khan, convenor Confederation of MCD Employees Union, said they held a meeting with the north corporation mayor and other officials, who agreed to pay one month salary and one month pension before Diwali.“We have decided to call off our strike after the administration agreed to consider our demands. As per the arrangement, one-month salary and pension will be released before Diwali and one month salary along with bonus and pension will be paid after Diwali. The corporation has also agreed to clear our remaining dues by November 30. This is a victory of the struggle of employees,” Khan said.He added that all employees would resume work from Wednesday. Employees who participated in the strike include engineers, teachers, horticulture staff, ministerial staff, domestic breeding checkers (DBC), class 4 employees such as beldars and labourers. Sanitation employees, doctors and nurses had, however, did not join the strike.Except for doctors, other health workers and sanitation staff, employees in north corporation had not been paid for last three months while pensions are pending for last six months. Similarly the salary pendency in East Delhi Municipal Corporation is one month while pensions are pending for last two months. There is no pendency of salaries in South Delhi Municipal Corporation.Jai Prakash, mayor north corporation, said that salaries of employees would be released in a couple of days. “We had a meeting with the agitating employees and we have decided that one-month salary and one-month pension will be credited into accounts of employees in the next two days. We are arranging funds and remaining salaries will also be cleared after Diwali. After these assurances, agitating employees have called off their strike,” Prakash said.Nirmal Jain, mayor EDMC, said that only one month salary is pending which will be given to the employees before Diwali.Prior to this, nursing staff of North Corporation run hospitals had also gone on strike on November 2, which was called off on November 6 after their pending salaries were paid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/staff-calls-off-strike-after-north-mcd-offers-to-pay-one-month-s-salary/story-xyFWU1djMdat25MyYv0s2L.html
10-11-2020||City||LSR College students to protest on Thursday, demand revocation of hostel policy||New Delhi: The students union of Lady Shri Ram (LSR) College has announced a protest outside the college premises on Thursday, demanding revocation of the hostel policy that was introduced this year. Union members said it will be in continuation of the ongoing virtual protests by the students to demand justice for a 19-year-old undergraduate student who died by suicide in her hometown in Telangana on November 3, after facing difficulties in pursuing online education amid the Covid-19 pandemic. According to the parents of the student, she was stressed over being asked to vacate the college hostel. The college administration had asked all second-year students to vacate the hostel by October-end, which was later extended to November 10. Starting this year, the college will only offer the hostel facility to first-year students. The students union on Tuesday held a virtual general body meeting and decided to hold a protest on Thursday. “The students union demands revocation of hostel vacating notice and first-year hostel policy. We demand the distribution of tablets and data packs for online classes to all students in need and the college should only charge tuition fees from the students till the physical classes resume. A committee should be formed for solutions to issues and exclusion faced by socially and economically backward students,” the union said in a statement.Unnimaya P, general secretary of the LSR students union, said the students continued the boycott of online classes for the second day on Tuesday, to condemn the incident. “Students of many departments at the college have boycotted the classes. Some had also attended online classes with placards and posters demanding justice for the deceased student. Around 300 students and alumni of the college attended the general body meeting on Tuesday. The protest will continue till our demands are met and on Thursday we will hold a physical protest outside the college,” she said. College principal Suman Sharma said that the administration has not received any formal information about the protest from students. On being asked about the possible change in the hostel policy, Sharma said, “The hostel policies were changed to accommodate Other Backward Category and Economically Weaker Section category reservation. We can sit and discuss what can be done for students who require the facility. But we have very limited space to accommodate students from all three years. We will look into the other demands of the students. We are constantly in touch with the family of the deceased student.” The parents of the dead student said that they had mortgaged their house and gold ornaments for Rs 2 lakh for her education and helped her fulfill her dreams of becoming an Indian Administrative Services officer and study in Delhi. The student was a recipient of the INSPIRE scholarship sponsored by the Department of Science and Technology (DST), Government of India.DST on Tuesday issued a statement, asking shortlisted candidates for the scholarship to complete their formalities quickly so that the scholarship can be disbursed at the earliest possible. “The DST is extremely grieved at the loss of life of a student of LSR College for Women, New Delhi and an aspirant of Scholarship for Higher Education (SHE) under ‘Innovation in Science Pursuit for Inspired Research (INSPIRE)’ scheme of DST. She was one of the brightest and promising students of the country. It is, for this reason, she was offered the Inspire SHE scholarship.”“As in other years, the provisional fellowship letters of scholarship were sent out to 9762 eligible applicants in August this year. The students are asked to upload three simple documents like bank account details, mark-sheet, and a bonafide/performance certificate from the college, following which scholarship for the entire year is promptly released. Regretfully, these documents were not received from the concerned student. DST would like to appeal to all the shortlisted candidates to complete their formalities quickly so that the scholarship can be disbursed at the earliest possible. We especially urge all the institutions to cooperate in this important matter in a time-bound manner,” the statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lsr-college-students-to-protest-on-thursday-demand-revocation-of-hostel-policy/story-BmT7uJJXgq0QiXqqDxv2eK.html
10-11-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand by-polls: 3rd member of Soren family elected in a ruling alliance show||The ruling allies Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) and the Congress retained their assembly seats in the Jharkhand by-polls on Tuesday, even as Basant Soren, youngest of the three sons of JMM patriarch Shibu Soren, became the third person of the political family to become a member of the current Jharkhand assembly.41-year-old Basant defeated former BJP minister Lois Marandi by over 6,842 votes in party stronghold of Dumka, the constituency vacated by his elder brother and incumbent chief minister Hemant Soren after he won Dumka and Barahit in December 2019 assembly elections and decided to retain the latter.Sita Soren, wife of late Durga Soren, eldest son of Shibu Soren, represents Jama seat in the Jharkhand assembly. JMM chief Shibu Soren is currently a member of the Rajya Sabha.In Bermo assembly seat, Jai Mangal Singh, son of Congress veteran Rajendra Singh, won by over 14,225 votes, defeating former BJP legislator Yogeshwar Mahto Batul. The seat fell vacant after Rajendra Singh, who was representing the seat for the sixth time, died of illness in May.The ruling JMM-Congress-RJD combine had won a comfortable majority in the assembly polls in December, and just over 10 months later they retained the two seats in the by-polls. The result would give the alliance a political boost as the opposition BJP had been targeting the Hemant Soren-led government over a host of issues including law and order, implementation of electoral promises and health management during the corona pandemic, besides alleged nepotism. Bihar Election Results: Full coverageThough the ruling allies retained their seats, their margin of victory in both seats dipped compared to the margin in 2019. Rajendra Singh had won from Bermo by over 25,000 votes, while Hemant Soren had won from Dumka by over 13,000 votes.“We are grateful to voters who despite corona pandemic exercise their franchise and participated in the festival of democracy. I thank them for showing faith in a Jharkhandi government. I also thank the workers of the allies JMM and Congress for their hard work” said CM Hemant Soren in a tweet in Hindi. Jharkhand BJP spokesperson Pratul Shadeo said the party accepts the verdict with humility. “Sympathy dominated the misgovernance and helped the Congress candidate in Bermo. In Dumka, the margin of the JMM candidate’s win has reduced by half as compared to 2019 despite the ruling party using the entire might of the state in favour of Basant Soren,” Shahdeo said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-by-polls-3rd-member-of-soren-family-elected-in-a-ruling-alliance-show/story-kuDYWsIoevks4fJkuc2EOI.html
10-11-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 test centres to mandatorily measure oxygen saturation level, says Delhi health minister||Seeking to reduce coronavirus-related deaths in the national capital, the Delhi government has ordered Covid-19 test centres to mandatorily check the oxygen saturation level of people, and persons found having it below 94% are to undergo compulsory medical examination.Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain in a tweet on Tuesday shared a copy of the order dated November 9.“Prompt and appropriate treatment is the key to save lives and combat Covid-19 complications and deaths. All RAT and RTPCR centers are hereby directed to ensure Oxygen saturation. Patients with less than 94% oxygen saturation to mandatorily undergo a medical examination,” he tweeted.The order to mandatorily check oxygen concentration level comes amid spiralling cases of Covid-19 in the national capital.Delhi recorded more than 70 coronavirus-related fatalities for the third consecutive day on Monday, taking the death toll to 7,060, while 5,023 fresh cases pushed the infection tally in the national capital to over 4.4 lakh, according to a bulletin by the health department.Over 7,000 daily fresh cases have been recorded on two days in November (November 6 and November 8) and over 6,000 daily cases four times.On November 8, the daily infection tally was 7745, the highest single-day spike here till date and 77 deaths.On Saturday, 79 fatalities were recorded, the highest in over four months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-test-centres-to-mandatorily-measure-oxygen-saturation-level-says-delhi-health-minister/story-ROB6axC7NUMVHAiscXRROO.html
10-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi air quality witnessing unusual condition, no quick recovery likely: SAFAR||Delhi is witnessing an “unusual” condition and no quick recovery is predicted from the “severe” air pollution, a central government forecasting agency said on Tuesday.The Ministry of Earth Sciences’ air quality monitor, SAFAR, said three major factors are responsible for this situation -- secondary particle formation, extremely calm local surface winds and stubble burning-related intrusion.“Delhi’s overall AQI is in the higher end of the ‘severe’ category, which is an unusual condition,” it said.“Due to a high moisture content, humidity has touched a new high and the air holding capacity has increased under such cool conditions, triggering rapid secondary fine particulate formation -- a scientific process when gas-to-particle conversion happens and in-situ chemical production takes place on available surfaces and multiplies PM2.5,” the SAFAR added.Also Read | Centre’s timely intervention could have reduced pollution surge in Delhi: Gopal RaiThe extremely calm local surface winds continued to arrest all old and new accumulated pollutants, it said.“Significant stubble burning-related intrusion took place until Tuesday morning due to a favourable, transport-level wind direction and speed,” the SAFAR said.However, the transport-level wind direction has changed now, which is likely to reduce stubble intrusion.“But due to the first two factors, no quick recovery is predicted unless the moisture content declines with radiative heating,” the SAFAR said.It said the air quality index (AQI) of the national capital is likely to improve to the lower end of the “severe” category to the higher end of the “very poor” category on Wednesday owing to a change in the transport-level wind direction and marginally better ventilation conditions.The SAFAR said the farm fire count in Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and neighbouring areas stood at 2,247 on Monday.“The number has reduced marginally but is still significantly high,” it said. The share of stubble burning in Delhi’s PM2.5 pollution was 22 per cent on Tuesday.An apocalyptic smog enveloped Delhi in grey on Tuesday, blotting out the sun from the sky and smudging landmarks from view as the air quality hit “emergency” levels.The city recorded an overall AQI of 476 at 4 pm, which falls in the “severe” category. The neighbouring cities of Faridabad (474), Ghaziabad (476), Noida (490), Greater Noida (467) and Gurugram (469) also recorded “severe” air quality.This is the sixth “severe” air day on the trot in Delhi. The city witnessed seven “severe” air days in November last year.Also Read | Severe air quality in 9 Uttar Pradesh cities; Ghaziabad, Greater Noida worst in countryThe levels of PM2.5 -- which is about three per cent the diameter of a human hair and can lead to premature deaths from heart and lung diseases -- were 644 µg/m3 at 12 noon -- around 11 times higher than the safe limit of 60 µg/m3.The PM10 levels rose to 777 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m3) at 8 am, the highest since June 14, 2018, when it peaked to 847 µg/m3, according to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. PM10 levels below 100 µg/m3 are considered safe in India.If the PM2.5 and PM10 levels are more than 300 µg/m3 and 500 µg/m3 respectively for over 48 hours, emergency measures such as a ban on construction activities and entry of trucks, and a car-rationing scheme can be implemented under the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) for Delhi-NCR, notified by the Ministry of Environment and Forests in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-air-quality-witnessing-unusual-condition-no-quick-recovery-likely-safar/story-7LNf36PeIemhBck7PBd0yO.html
10-11-2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh man accused of rape sets victim, her husband and seven-year-old daughter afire||A 32-year-old man allegedly raped a woman in Madhya Pradesh’s Gwalior and set her on fire days later along with her husband and their seven-year-old daughter after they mustered courage and tried to file a rape case against him. He poured petrol on them and set them afire on Monday night after the husband went to a local police station to lodge a First Information Report (FIR). The personnel on duty did not lodge an FIR, said the woman in her statement to police on Monday night.The three were rushed to a government hospital with severe burn injuries and their condition was said to be serious. When police went to arrest the accused, his family told them he too had received burn injuries and was admitted to a private hospital, said Gwalior police superintendent Amit Sanghi.Also Read: Four kids die in mudslide in BhopalSanghi said the woman’s husband said his friend allegedly raped his wife on October 31 when she was alone at home. “[The accused] threatened the woman of dire consequences if she informed anyone about the crime. The woman informed her husband but the couple could not muster the courage to lodge the FIR against the accused which further emboldened him and he started exerting pressure on the woman to meet him.”Sanghi said on Monday, the woman refused to meet the accused and her husband went to the police station to lodge the FIR. “The accused came to know about it and he entered the victim’s house the same night and set the victim’s husband afire. When the woman and her seven-year-old daughter rushed to the rescue of the man, the accused also poured petrol on them and set them afire.”Police were looking for the accused and searching private hospitals in Gwalior. “We are also inquiring about the accusations made by the victim that police at Thatipur police station did not lodge her rape complaint...” said Sanghi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-man-accused-of-rape-sets-victim-her-husband-and-seven-year-old-daughter-afire/story-PTuigaca8zzar6q4OgZlLM.html
10-11-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 5 policemen suspended in Bundi after man dies in custody||Five police personnel has been suspended in Rajasthan’s Bundi district after a custodial death of a gamblerPolice personnel posted at Ramnagar outpost in Bundi town had caught Harji Kanjar (55) on charges of gambling on Monday (November 9) afternoon. He was arrested from Kanjar Basti at Ramnagar in the town. Kanjar’s health condition worsened on Monday evening.Though he was taken to a hospital, he died in the evening.His family members accused the police personnel of strangulating him after he refused to give them money for setting him free. They also shared pictures on social media of the police personnel forcibly taking him away from his home.Also Read: Gurjar stir for quota continues in Rajasthan, police book 223 agitatorsShivraj Singh, superintendent of police (SP), Bundi, initiated a judicial probe into Kanjar’s custodial death. A medical board conducted Kanjar’s post-mortem examination. SP Singh has suspended sub-inspector (S-I) Shyam Sunder Yadav, head constable Satyanarayan Meena, constables Prahlad Meena, Hanuman Chaudhary and Rajaram Chaudhary.Kanjar’s family members blocked the state highway in Bundi and did not accept his body for the last rites. They demanded a murder case be filed against the errant police personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-5-policemen-suspended-in-bundi-after-man-dies-in-custody/story-FcTXvy6nLiMJZDfowVtffI.html
10-11-2020||Mumbai||Shiv Sena slams BJP for celebrating four years of demonetisation||Maharashtra’s ruling Shiv Sena on Tuesday slammed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for celebrating four years of demonetisation saying it is akin to “cutting a birthday cake on the graves of those destroyed by the decision”. In an editorial in its mouthpiece Saamana, the Sena called the surprise demonetisation of old Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes on November 8, 2016, a “black chapter” in the nation’s history.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday defended the move, saying it reduced black money and increased transparency even as opposition parties called demonetisation a national tragedy.The editorial targeted Modi saying he promised to bring back the black money and deposit Rs 15 lakh in the bank accounts of every citizen. It said leaders here should keep in mind how US President Donald Trump lost.Also Read: If we can learn anything from Trump’s defeat…: Sena’s jibe at ‘losing’ NDA in Bihar“Demonetisation was a black chapter in the history of our nation... The celebration over the decision is like cutting birthday cake on the graves of those who lost their jobs, died by suicide, or whose businesses were shut [because of the move]. Accepting mistakes shows the mettle in leadership. But the new political culture is to support mistakes. President Trump did the same in America.”The editorial said Modi claimed demonetisation will curb terrorism as black money sources will be cut off. It added terrorist activities continue as note ban has not stopped terrorist operations. “It was claimed that after demonetisation terrorism in Kashmir will end, but has it happened? While Prime Minister Modi and his colleagues were celebrating the fourth anniversary of the decision [demonetisation], four soldiers were martyred in an encounter with terrorists in the Machil sector of Jammu & Kashmir. Infiltration and skirmishes have gone up in the Kashmir valley.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-slams-bjp-for-celebrating-four-years-of-demonetisation/story-fNX0zbhw0AQgH9EhAB30fK.html
10-11-2020||Mumbai||TRP fraud: Republic TV’s distribution head Ghanshyam Singh arrested||The Mumbai Police’s Special Investigation Team probing the Television Rating Point (TRP) fraud arrested Republic TV’s distribution head Ghanshyam Dilipkumar Singh, 44, on Tuesday and produced him before a court.Singh has been arrested after days of questioning. He is the 12th person to be arrested in the case.“Relentless attack on Republic Media network continues; Republic Distribution head AVP Ghanshyam Singh detained by crime branch; Ghanshyam had been cooperating in the Mumbai police’s fake TRP case probe,” Republic TV said in a tweet.#LIVE | Relentless attack on Republic Media Network continues; in Early morning swoopdown, REPUBLIC DISTRIBUTION AVP GHANSHYAM DETAINED by crime branch; Ghanshyam had been cooperating in the Mumbai Police's Fake TRP case probe; UPDATES here - https://t.co/RZHKU3wOei pic.twitter.com/INz5MkWPmfSachin Vaze, who is part of the investigating team, confirmed Singh’s arrest. “...we will seek his police custody”.On October 31, the SIT raided the residence and office of the arrested accused Abhishek Kolawade and seized Rs 13.72 lakh in cash. Kolawade worked as a vendor for many channels and ran a company named Max Media.After questioning Kolawade, police arrested Ashish Chaudhary, 50, a Thane resident allegedly involved in financing people for manipulating TRP for two news channels and a Bollywood music channel. Chaudhary allegedly used to work as a distributor of a Hindi News channel and ran a company named Crystal Broadcast Private Limited in his wife’s name.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/trp-fraud-republic-tv-s-distribution-head-ghanshyam-singh-arrested/story-hetzPlvXkEAhkl8uEeTHaI.html
10-11-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal to go Haryana way on job quota for local youngsters||Close on the heels of the BJP-JJP government passing a Bill for 75% quota in the private sector for Haryanvi youngsters, the Himachal Pradesh government is considering introducing a legislation to provide 70% jobs for locals. “We are studying what Haryana has done to see if a similar law can be implemented in Himachal Pradesh,” said state labour commissioner-cum-director of employment Neeraj Kumar. Unemployment is a major poll issue in Himachal, which ranks fourth among states with the highest unemployment rate in the country, and parties, including the BJP, promised maximum jobs to Himachalis in the run-up to the 2017 assembly elections. The BJP’s Vision Document promised to “strictly implement the criteria of 70% jobs to Himachal youth in the industry”. According to the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE), a thinktank, Himachal Pradesh’s unemployment rate in October was 13.5%. Haryana was still at the top at 27.3%, followed by Rajasthan at 24.1% and Jammu and Kashmir at 16.1%. The national average is 6.6%. HIGH SALARY EXPECTATIONS A HURDLE Kumar says the problem in Himachal Pradesh is the high salary expectations among youngsters, who prefer white collar jobs to working in industries and prefer heading out of the state for better pay. Himachal Chapter of Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) chairman Lt Col Shailesh Pathak (retd) says as a result, the state has a dearth of local skilled labour and the industry is forced to hire labour from other states. “The demand for industrial jobs is not as much here (in Himachal Pradesh). We overcome the shortfall in labour by hiring from other states,” he says. He says the CII holds recruitment camps across the state, including the tribal areas, to hire workers for industries but the response has been low. “There are several units in the industrial areas of the state that need skilled labour but are not getting it locally,” he adds. HIRE FROM HIMACHAL FIRST: EX-MINISTER Former Congress minister GS Bali, who has been flagging the issue of unemployment, says the industry gets cheaper labour from other states so it does not need to recruit local youth. “It should be mandatory for the industry to hire skilled workforce from Himachal first,” he says. Criticising the Jai Ram Thakur-led BJP government of failing to keep its poll promise, he says, “The government has made no efforts to ensure maximum jobs for locals in Himachal’s industries. Neither does it have any intention nor a comprehensive policy for this.” Bali admits reserving 70% jobs for locals is a tall order as many youngsters are engaged in seasonal occupations. “Most jobs in the state are in the tourism and agriculture/horticulture sectors. During the lean tourist season, youngsters head towards agriculture. Industries demand round the year commitment, so not many youngsters give it preference,” he says. NEARLY 8.5 LAKH REGISTERED UNEMPLOYED According to the department of labour and employment, the number of registered unemployed youth in the state is a staggering 8,49,701 as on March 31, 2020. This is about 12% of the state’s total population. About 76,000 of them are postgraduates, 1.35 lakh graduates, six lakh matriculates and undergraduates, 30,000 under matriculates and 6,230 illiterate. More than 44% of those registered are women. An estimated 60,000 new youngsters enter the market seeking jobs after completing their studies every year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-to-go-haryana-way-on-job-quota-for-local-youngsters/story-a5zggyQc1KD5jdZVYKPAQM.html
10-11-2020||Bangalore||BJP wins Sira assembly seat in Karnataka for first time||The ruling BJP in Karnataka created history of sorts by bagging the Sira assembly segment in Tumakuru district for the first time with party candidate C M Rajesh Gowda emerging the winner in the recent byelection.Gowda defeated his closest Congress rival T B Jayachandra, a six-time MLA and former minister, by a margin of over 12,000 votes, officials said.JD(S) that had won the seat in the 2018 assembly elections has been relegated to third place.The bypoll, held on November 3, has been necessitated in Sira following the death of JD(S) MLA B Sathyanarayana in August.Apparently eyeing sympathy votes, the JD(S) had fielded Ammajamma B, wife of Sathyanarayana.BJP’s Rajesh Gowda is a radiologist and the son of former Congress MP C P Mudalagiriyappa and had recently joined the ruling party.His win is significant as this is the first ever success for the BJP in Sira, which falls in old Mysuru region, where the party had been weak traditionally.With its negligible presence in the constituency where Congress and JD(S) had been the traditional rivals, the BJP had not polled more than 24,000 votes in the past.After winning K R Pet and Chikkaballapura assembly seats in December 2019 bypolls, the BJP has been focussing on making further inroads in the old Mysuru region.Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s son and state BJP Vice President B Y Vijayendra, who played a key role in winning K R Pet in 2019, along with other leaders had camped in Sira to ensure the party’s victory.This win will add another feather to his cap, with him being seen as Yediyurappa’s political heir, sources said.BJP was a distant third in the 2018 assembly polls by securing only 16,959 votes in Sira.Sathyanarayana had then defeated Jayachandra of the Congress.Jayachandra was the candidate this time too and AICC general secretary in-charge of Karnataka Randeep Singh Surjewala had reportedly expressed his reservations to the state unit leaders about the choice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/bjp-wins-sira-assembly-seat-in-karnataka-for-first-time/story-nxtO8N9tuYKYJYrgwmeQJP.html
10-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Only two Jain temples permitted to open during five-day Diwali festival||The Bombay high court has allowed only two Jain temples to open for devotees in Mumbai for five days during Diwali between Dhnateras and Bhau Beej with strict conditions. A division bench of justices S J Kathawalla and Abhay Ahuja issued the order while rejecting a plea seeking reopening of 102 Jain temples for Diwali, saying they should approach the court individually.The bench was hearing a petition filed by two Jain temple trusts. Advocate Prafulla Shah, who represented the petitioners, told the bench that the petition was seeking a limited relief in the form of permitting Jain temples in the city to open for five days during Diwali. Shah submitted that as the five-day period of Diwali is auspicious and important for Jains, they should be permitted to visit the temples.Also Read: Arnab Goswami moves Supreme Court challenging Bombay HC order denying him bailWhile referring to previous orders of the high court and Supreme Court wherein the Jain community was allowed to publicly observe their religious events and open three temples during the Covid-19 pandemic, Shah said that the community would abide by the lockdown and social distancing norms. In light of this undertaking Shah sought directions to the state to permit the opening of 102 Jain temples for five days.Shah also said that while the state had permitted the opening of bars, restaurants, and theatres, it was being discriminatory in not permitting temples to open.Advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni opposed the petition. He said that the claim of the petitioners that the five days of Diwali are very important only for the Jain community was baseless as the festival is important for all Hindus. He added hence the petitioners could not seek reliefs solely for their community. Kumbhakoni opposed the prayer for permitting 102 temples to open saying that the petition was not public interest litigation and hence the two petitioners could not seek relief on behalf of the entire community.“The state is cognizant of the situation and has said that it will consider the opening of temples after Diwali. Devotees from all religions...Hindus, Christians, and Muslims are eager to visit their religious places but are patient in the current situation and stand taken by the government. The Jain community should also be patient,” said Kumbhakoni.Kumbhakoni countered the argument of discrimination. He said it was surprising that the petitioners were comparing temples to bars and added that the commercial activity was permitted only on economic grounds. Kumbhakoni said hence the petitioners were wrong in drawing such a comparison. In light of these submissions, Kumbhakoni sought rejection of the petition or permission for opening all the temples.After hearing the submissions, the bench concurred with the submissions of Kumbhakoni and said that it would pass orders only for the opening of the temples run by the petitioner trusts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-only-two-jain-temples-permitted-to-open-during-five-day-diwali-festival/story-V606VDw2UDlOEZLpliOlQN.html
10-11-2020||Pune||Thieves decamp with donation boxes from Shikrapur temple||Unidentified thieves decamped with two donation boxes kept in the sanctum sanctorum of Bhairavnath temple in Shikrapur on Saturday. The donation boxes were found missing after the temple was reopened for worship by the temple trust president on Sunday morning. The trust president, Kantaram Gilbile (50) has lodged an FIR stating that he had opened the temple lock on Sunday to perform prayers when he found it broken. He had properly locked the temple door on Saturday before leaving the premises. When he went inside, he found two donation boxes missing. He further inquired around and found iron rods in the area which were used to break open the temple door. The total amount of cash and offering in the donation box could be ascertained, he stated in the complaint. Police inspector Umesh Tawaskar said that the theft took place inside the temple located in Koyali gaothan area of Shikrapur. The complainant is the temple trust president who immediately lodged a complaint with police. “Prima facie it appears to be a case of theft and the accused seems to have known the area quite well. We are searching for evidence and CCTV footage of the area is being searched and analyzed. The case will be solved soon, and teams have been formed to crack the case,” he said. The police have invoked IPC 379 (theft) and the investigation is on trace the accused. No arrests have been made so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/thieves-decamp-with-donation-boxes-from-shikrapur-temple/story-zhcyqrpbcIp5Di6mmhw16K.html
10-11-2020||Kolkata||‘Will meet on the battlefield’: TMC’s Suvendu Adhikari challenges his party||West Bengal minister and Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Suvendu Adhikari on Tuesday challenged his party saying they will meet “on the battlefield”. Adhikari said journalists and political observers were waiting for him to announce his political programme. “They want to hear me talk about the roadblocks I am facing and the path I am going to take. I will not announce my political programme from this sacred platform. This is not the place. I will speak from a political platform,” Adhikari said at a rally.Adhikari’s followers had organised the rally to pay tributes to TMC workers and villagers, who died during the two-year-long agitation against the erstwhile Left Front government’s attempt to acquire land for a chemical hub. Adhikari led the agitation which started after 14 villagers were killed in police firing at Nandigram on March 14, 2007. The Nandigram land movement helped chief minister Mamata Banerjee come to the power by defeating the Left Front.Also Read: Internal differences widen in TMC, BJP watches minister Suvendu AdhikariAdhikari announced from today all tributes to those killed during the agitation will be held under the banner of Bhumi Uchhed Protirodh Committee under which the Nandigram land movement was organised.Adhikari referred to TMC’s two hurriedly organised counter rallies at Nandigram and asked: “Where were you during these 13 years?” He added he was not new there. “A known Brahmin does not need the sacred thread to establish his identity,” he said, quoting a popular Bengali proverb. Benerjee also paid tribute to those killed in the agitation. In a tweet, she said, “Today is Nandigram Dibas - the 13th anniversary of the barbaric massacre in the name of new dawn. My homage to all those who have lost their lives due to political violence across the world. Peace must always win.”TMC leaders said Adhikari is unhappy with Banerjee’s nephew, Abhishek Banerjee, and election strategist Prashant Kishor. “Suvendu wants the party to field candidates of his choice in 65 assembly seats spread across several districts. This is unacceptable to the leadership. We are aware that he was approached by the BJP [Bharatiya Janata Party]. There is nothing one can do if he is determined to leave. But we have information that he is not yet ready to join the saffron camp,” a TMC leader said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/will-meet-on-the-battlefield-tmc-s-suvendu-adhikari-challenges-his-party/story-v7Q7R5rhrRmIHVBaHj0cnI.html
10-11-2020||Chandigarh||Atal Tunnel the way to income generation through homestays: HP govt||The Himachal Pradesh government is now exploring possibilities of generating incomes through homestays, as suggested by Prime Minister Narendra Modi while inaugurating the Atal Tunnel which links Manali to the Lahaul-Spiti valley that is currently facing heavy tourist influx.Traditional architecture of the state will be promoted and all plans will be made with due consideration to the state’s fragile ecology even as the tourist rush is a cause for worry, it has been learnt. “We are roping in experts and the tourism department is drawing a comprehensive plan to promote tourism in the region keeping in view the fragile ecology,” says state chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, who also holds the tourism portfolio. “Modiji has envisioned promotion of homestays instead of big luxury hotels beyond the north portal of the tunnel at Sissu,” he adds.Tourist rush a threat to ecologyMeanwhile, with an effective waste management system missing, dumping of garbage could get to be a real problem for the pristine Lahaul, Spiti, Chandra and Bagha valleys. The tourist rush will not help. Garbage has been dumped at various spots on the stretch between Manali and Keylong as no dustbins have been installed along the highway. Waste gets mixed with rainwater and trickles down the hill slopes into the rivers. “A large number of tourists have entered the valley after the tunnel opened,” says BK Kapoor, retired chief engineer from the Electricity Board, who is from Tholang village .“About 3,000 to 4,000 vehicles pass through the Atal tunnel daily,” says superintendent of police, Kullu, Gaurav Singh.Urgent infrastructure upgrade requiredTourism experts fear that the tourist rush and lack of infrastructure will hurt . There are no toilet facilities along highways, forcing travellers to defecate in the open. The roads are narrow, drinking water capacity is limited, hotel rooms are limited, wayside amenities are poor, training or skill development units are not available, trek routes are unidentified, temples and monasteries need to enhance capacity and health facilities are in bad shape. This is the time when the state government should ask the Centre for a special package, suggest experts, for infrastructure development in Lahaul valley.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/atal-tunnel-the-way-to-income-generation-through-homestays-hp-govt/story-GRGFgvBc2kFo2ROGmRDkjO.html
10-11-2020||Mumbai||More clean-up marshals to be deployed in Mumbai during Diwali to ensure people follow Covid-19 rules||Fearing a second wave of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai after Diwali, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will deploy additional marshals across the city to avoid overcrowding and ensure the wearing of masks. At least 40-50 marshals, accompanied by staff from the ward offices and police, will be deployed in each of the 24 administrative wards starting Tuesday.Citizens not wearing masks or found spitting will be fined by these marshals. The ward staff and marshals will identify places where the footfall is higher than usual. Those who violate norms will be fined ₹200.Marshals are deployed to ensure cleanliness in the city and they can fine people for littering and spitting.BMC started collecting fines from people not wearing masks since April. The fine was initially ₹1,000 but was later reduced to ₹200 following complaints from citizens. So far, BMC has collected Rs 5.18 crore in fines. A civic official said, “These drives are important, and we do not want another surge after Diwali. We have strengthened the number of staff deployed on this drive and will ensure that it continues post-Diwali.”Sanjay Pattiwar, a public health expert, said, “Diwali is one of the biggest festivals in India and will be a crucial time for Covid as well. Authorities should ensure that the downward trend continues till the end of November and if that happens, it will be a good sign.”Since October 24, the city has seen a downward curve in terms of Covid cases and reported cases as low as 576 daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/more-clean-up-marshals-to-be-deployed-in-mumbai-during-diwali-to-ensure-people-follow-covid-19-rules/story-uleP3bPLj2wToB9BIHBt3L.html
10-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: More clean-up marshals to be deployed during festival to ensure adherence to Covid-19 rules||Fearing a second wave of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai after Diwali, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will deploy additional marshals across the city to avoid overcrowding and ensure the wearing of masks. At least 40-50 marshals, accompanied by staff from the ward offices and police, will be deployed in each of the 24 administrative wards starting Tuesday.Citizens not wearing masks or found spitting will be fined by these marshals. The ward staff and marshals will identify places where the footfall is higher than usual. Those who violate norms will be fined Rs 200.Also Read: Indian researchers working towards developing effective vaccine strategies against SARS-CoV-2 and HIVThe marshals are deployed to ensure cleanliness in the city and they can fine people for littering and spitting.BMC started collecting fines from people not wearing masks since April. The fine was initially Rs 1,000 but was later reduced to Rs 200 following complaints from citizens. So far, BMC has collected Rs 5.18 crore in fines. A civic official said, “These drives are important and we do not want another surge after Diwali. We have strengthened the number of staff deployed on this drive and will ensure that it continues post-Diwali.”Sanjay Pattiwar, a public health expert, said, “Diwali is one of the biggest festivals in India and will be a crucial time for Covid as well. Authorities should ensure that the downward trend continues till the end of November and if that happens, it will be a good sign.”Since October 24, the city has seen a downward curve in terms of Covid cases and reported cases as low as 576 daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-more-clean-up-marshals-to-be-deployed-during-festival-to-ensure-adherence-to-covid-19-rules/story-NGcSzqbO4jznaIlvFSPkMN.html
10-11-2020||Pune||Shirur police arrest man for stabbing woman in the eye for resisting molestation attack||PUNE The Pune rural police have arrested the accused man who stabbed a 37-year-old woman in the eyes for resisting his molestation attack.The incident took place on November 3. The victim has lost vision in both the eyes due to the injuries inflicted by the accused.The crime took place in a village in Shirur taluka of Pune district late on November 3, when the victim had stepped out of her residence to relieve herself in an open ground near her house when an unidentified person tried to sexually molest her. As the woman tried to stop him, he inflicted injuries on both her eyes with a sharp object.Police inspector Pravin Khanapure said, “They had received a tip-off about the accused from a waiter who worked at a restaurant in the area that a person had shaved off his beard and head and gone missing which alerted the police department.”The police team formed under the instructions of Pune rural SP Abhinav Deshmukh analysed the CCTV footage in the area and tried to match up the victim in the footage with the description.The police relayed the information to village security committees and found that the concerned person was operating in Srigonda –Parner belt of Ahmednagar district. “Accordingly, he was picked up by a team of rural police officials after verification of the nature of the complaint made by the complainant and the definition of his personality traits given by the victim,” Khanapure said.SP Abhinav Deshmukh said, “Efforts of his team led to the arrest of the accused in the case.”A case under Sections 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and 307 (attempted murder) of Indian Penal Code was registered based on a complaint lodged by the woman’s 20-year-old daughter at Shirur police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shirur-police-arrest-man-for-stabbing-women-in-the-eye-for-resisting-molestation-attack/story-vpTdvRxT66XKJEKOucdGML.html
10-11-2020||Pune||Sandalwood tree stolen from Pune college premises; three booked||PUNE A fully-grown sandalwood tree has been chopped down and stolen from the premises of Fergusson College during the wee hours on November 5.Deccan police have lodged a case against three unidentified persons in the case.According to the police, the faces of the three people were covered with masks and they came inside the campus between 3 am to 3.15 am, axed the tree with a cutter and escaped towards Dnyaneshwar Paduka chowk through the canal road.According to the police, the accused were in the age group of 20- 25 years. No arrests have been made so far.An official complaint has been lodged by Abhijit Jadhav (25) in the case.The police have invoked the Indian Penal Code (IPC) 379 ( theft ) and 34 (common intention) against the three accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sandalwood-tree-stolen-from-fc-college-premises-three-booked/story-b1CzdFyiSD4XtvYyQhXgbL.html
10-11-2020||Mumbai||Bombay high court paves way for redevelopment of Mumbai’s Chandan Cinema property||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to approve a plan submitted by Sameer Joshi, the owner of Chandan Cinema, for its redevelopment as part of the Juhu Vile Parle Development (JVPD) scheme. Joshi assured the two-member HC division bench, comprising justice SJ Kathawalla and justice Anuja Prabhudessai, that he would not start any construction work without the court’s permission. Earlier, Joshi had moved the HC, challenging a notification issued in June 1976 under the Works of Defence Act, 1903, imposing restrictions on construction work in the vicinity of a military installation at Juhu. Chandan Cinema, which was built in 1973, was shut in March 2017 after BMC had issued a notice for its demolition because of its dilapidated condition. Also Read: Arnab Goswami moves Supreme Court challenging Bombay HC order denying him bailThe notice led Joshi to come up with a plan to redevelop the property, including a 50.70-metre (m) basement and a ground plus 11-storey building. He had also secured a no-objection certificate (NoC) from the Airports Authority of India (AAI). However, he was advised to obtain an NoC from the station commander of Juhu Military Station, as the property was located close to the defence installation. According to a June 1976 notification, construction is permitted only to the height of 15.24m within 457.20m, or 500 yards, from the boundary wall of the military installation. On July 18, 2019, BMC took into account Joshi’s plea and forwarded a proposal to the military commander for the latter’s consideration. The commander rejected the proposal a month later, citing it to be in violation of the June 1976 notification. In November 2019, Joshi applied to the BMC to sanction the plan for construction up to 15.24m, which was within the permissible limits. He moved the HC after he did not receive a response from the civic body. The HC accepted Joshi’s contention that the June 1976 notification exempted the construction made before its issuance regarding height restrictions. The court directed BMC to consider Joshi’s proposal for construction up to the existing height of the defunct Chandan Cinema.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-paves-way-for-redevelopment-of-mumbai-s-chandan-cinema-property/story-EGFHkrFsAktNq1ayvsiMsI.html
10-11-2020||Pune||Pune residents may get Bhama Askhed dam water by December-end||PUNE: After six years since the Bhama Askhed water project began, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will finally begin testing the water pipeline and treatment plant. With eastern parts of the city facing water scarcity mainly Vimannagar, Kharadi, Ahmednagar road, Lohegaon and Vadgaonsheri areas, PMC had planned to lift water from Bhama Askhed dam located near Chakan Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC), Khed. The residents of these areas have to depend on water tankers even during the rainy season. Bhama Askhed dam is located 42 Km away from the city. PMC executive engineer Suresh Kadu said, “PMC has connected the pipeline at jackwell and it has started functioning. Water has reached through the pipeline till Kurli where a new water treatment plant has been erected. PMC will carry out testing, cleaning and water quality check for one month, before starting the supply to residents.” A PMC water department official on condition of anonymity said, “The project faced a lot of obstacles, including protests by farmers, but political leadership ensured that it sees the light of the day.” According to the official, earlier PMC decided to start the project on its own. The state government gave the go-ahead to lay water pipeline from Bhama Askhed dam. Meanwhile, the project was submitted to the central government. The Centre under the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (Jnnurm) approved funds and gave a deadline to complete it by 2018. The civic administration faced opposition from farmers and local politicians making it difficult to lay pipelines. PMC and district administration completed the water project work under police protection. Many times the work was halted by farmers despite PMC having paid compensation to them. Pune to get water supply from five dams Pune is getting water from Khadakwasla, Panshet, Warasgaon and Temghar dams, mainly known as the Khadakwasla reservoir. Bhama Askhed dam will be the fifth once the water supply project is completed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-residents-may-get-bhama-askhed-dam-water-by-dec-end/story-LD9ScYjdjibEiYfMi1CJhK.html
10-11-2020||Mumbai||Kamala Mills fire case: Owners of compound discharged, others to face trial||A Mumbai sessions court on Tuesday discharged the two owners of Kamala Mills compound -- Ramesh Gowani and Ravi Bhandari – who were booked after a fire had broken out at a restaurant in Kamla Mills compound on December 29, 2017, which led to the death of 14 diners and several people being injured. However, the court refused to discharge the owners of the restaurants, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials and the other accused. The blaze had broken out at around 12.30am at 1Above and Mojo’s Bistro restaurants, which were located at Kamala Mills Compound. The investigation revealed that the fire had initially broken in 1Above due to Hookah embers and later spread to Mojo’s Bistro. Also Read: Arnab Goswami moves Supreme Court challenging Bombay HC order denying him bailAltogether, 14 people were booked by the Mumbai Police, which included the owners of the restaurants and their employees, BMC officials, and the owners of Kamala Mills Compound. Prakash Shetty, special public prosecutor, said the court discharged Gowani and Bhandari on Tuesday. Earlier, the duo had claimed that they should not be booked for the incident, as they had no connection with it. The other accused had also approached the court for discharge. The accused include two managers of 1Above, Lisbon Lopes and Kevin Bawa; hotelier Vishal Kariya; the owners of 1Above restaurant Kripesh Mansukh Sanghavi and Jigar Mansukh Sanghavi: the owner of the Mojo’s Bistro pub Yug Ravindrapal Singh Tuli; fire officer, Rajendra Baban Patil; sub-engineer G/South ward of the BMC, Dinesh Yashwant Mahale; and assistant divisional fire officer (Worli division) Sandeep Shivaji Shinde. All the accused had challenged the charge of culpable homicide not amounting to murder along with other charges. The prosecution had contended that the accused failed to abide by the law and also cited several irregularities in the fire safety system of the restaurants, which resulted in the death of innocent diners. The court has rejected the plea for discharge of the accused who will face trial for culpable homicide not amounting to murder along with other charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kamala-mills-fire-case-owners-of-compound-discharged-others-to-face-trial/story-xq5OkYI6pfPTIXJ0WvG5NO.html
10-11-2020||City||Gold bars worth Rs30 crore seized along Bengal-Bihar border||The West Bengal police arrested three people and seized gold bars worth over Rs 30 crore from them at Kharibari along the Bengal-Bihar border in Darjeeling district on Monday. “The seized gold bars were being taken to Bihar from Assam through Siliguri in West Bengal. They are worth more than Rs 30 crore. Three persons including the driver of a car and two others from Mumbai have been arrested,” said Santosh Nimbalkar, police superintendent, Darjeeling. The 130 gold bars weigh around 21.5 kg.Also Read: Kolkata: Three arrested for duping Institution of Engineers of Rs35 croreThe accused persons have been identified as Mohammad Afroz, Shashikanta Sankapal and Anil Gumadi. Afroz is the driver, while the two others are residents of Mumbai. “Sankapal and Gumadi arrived at Tenzing Norgay Central Bus Terminus from Guwahati on Monday morning and hired a car to go to Bihar. Further investigation is on,” said another police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gold-bars-worth-rs30-crore-seized-along-bengal-bihar-border/story-Je9WY6HlbbPAtpPTBL6anI.html
10-11-2020||Kolkata||Preparations on to resume local train services in Bengal from Wednesday||Preparations are on across West Bengal to resume local train services from Wednesday after over seven months. Railway officials said at least 696 local trains will be run from Wednesday.“Railways to run 696 suburban services in West Bengal from 11th November. With adequate safety measures in place, this will greatly enhance passenger convenience, ease of movement & facilitate smooth travel for the people,” railway minister Piyush Goyal tweeted on Sunday.Officials said compartments and stations are being sanitised and seats marked with colours to help passengers maintain physical distance. Masks would be made mandatory for passengers to enter stations and to board trains.Also Read: Railways to run 696 suburban services in West Bengal from Nov 11Bamboos, ropes, and guard-rails are being used to put up barricades so that proper queues could be maintained at ticket counters and stations. Entry and exit gates are being guarded separately so that physical distance could be maintained.On Monday, West Bengal’s home secretary met railway officials to chalk out a strategy on how to manage crowds during peak hours and follow Covid-19 protocols.“Even though we are resuming local train services with around 45% of the trains, during the peak hours around 85% of the trains would operate to cater to the rush,” said a railway official.Protests have been going on at stations across the state for the resumption of local train services over the past few days. At some places, passengers blocked trains and railway tracks, forcing security personnel to resort to lathi-charge.Suburban trains connect Kolkata and Howrah with villages and towns of the adjoining districts. Howrah and Sealdah stations cater to more than two million passengers every day.On March 22, the local train services were suspended. While the Kolkata Metro and flight services have resumed, the railways were running only some special trains for their railway staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/preparations-on-to-resume-local-train-services-in-bengal-from-wednesday/story-dOCdTyeQFOpyyVzFfPeQMO.html
10-11-2020||Pune||Uncertainty grips Sawai Gandharva Mahotsav due to pandemic||The outbreak of Covid-19 has cast clouds of uncertainty over the prestigious Sawai Gandharva Bhimsen Mahostav this year.Started by late Bharat Ratna awardee Bhimsen Joshi, this would be 68th year of Sawai Gandharva Mahotstav which attract connoisseurs of classical music from across India. The five-day classical music festival that sees performances from well-known classical musicians, singers, and dancers, has its organisers still undecided about its fate.Usually held in the second week of December, this prestigious music festival which is held annually attracts lakhs of music lovers to Pune.Shrinivas Joshi, president, Arya Sangeet Prasarak Mandal, organisers of Sawai Gandharva Bhimsen Mahostav, said, “As of now we have no plan in place and we are waiting for the government to announce their decision over holding big events with protocols in place. Until any notification is out, we are going to wait and watch.”“We are waiting for their permission, only then can we look at December dates realistically. In normal circumstances, we would be ready with our event calendar of artistes’ performances. In fact, the artistes will be eager to perform this year has been bad for everyone in the performing arts,” he said.Joshi further added if the government does not give permission, organisers will look at postponing instead of holding it online.Meanwhile, the organisers of Pulostav, the week-long cultural festival held to celebrate writer and humorist Purshottam Laxman Deshpande’s birth anniversary have also postponed the festival.“This year would have been the 101 birth anniversary of the multifaceted Pu La Deshpande, but instead of holding it online, we would rather postpone it to next year and hold a multi-city event,” said Satish Jakatdar, director, Aashay Film and Sanskrutik Club, which organises the festival every year.“We will be holding it between June 12 and November 8, 2021, in 15 cities. Last year, a travelling festival was organised in 20 cities across India and 30 cities across the world to mark the birth centenary of Deshpande,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/uncertainty-grips-sawai-gandharva-mahotsav-due-to-pandemic/story-33uGsySEoFGGAeGH2hqCgJ.html
10-11-2020||Mumbai||Central government sells Dawood Ibrahim’s six properties at Ratnagiri||Fugitive gangster Dawood Ibrahim’s six properties in his ancestral village in Ratnagiri district in coastal Konkan in Maharashtra was sold by the central government on Monday through e-auction organised by the authorities from the Smugglers and Foreign Exchange Manipulators (Forfeiture of Property) Act (SAFEMA), 1976.One of Ibrahim’s properties auctioned included survey number 181, a 27-guntha land parcel, which houses a two-storey bungalow and two houses. Though the base price for the bungalow was set at Rs 5.35 lakh, it was sold for Rs 11.20 lakh. The bid was won by Ajay Shrivastav, who also bagged the ownership rights of Ibrahim’s another 24.90-gunta land parcel at Mumbake village in Khed taluka, bearing the survey number 153 (a 24.90-gunta land parcel). It had a reserved price of Rs 1.89 lakh and sold for Rs 4.30 lakh, SAFEMA officials said.Also Read: Arnab Goswami moves Supreme Court challenging Bombay HC order denying him bailFour other land parcels in Mumbake village, bearing survey number 150 (20 guntas and a reserved price of Rs 1.52 lakh), survey number 151 (27 guntas and a reserved price of Rs 2.05 lakh), survey number 152 (29.30 guntas and a reserved price of Rs 2.23 lakh) and survey number 155 (18 guntas and a reserved price of Rs 1.38 lakh) were sold for Rs 7.18 lakh. Bids for these land parcels were won by Bhupendra Bharadwaj, a Delhi-based Supreme Court (SC) lawyer.Altogether, Ibrahim’s seven properties were to be auctioned, but Survey number 81 -- a 30-gunta land parcel, that housed a petrol pump and other buildings at Lote in Khed taluka and had a reserved price Rs 61.48 lakh -- was withdrawn at the last moment due to a technical error, said an official.Two flats of Ibrahim’s deceased aide Iqbal Mirchi – 501 and 502 in Milton Apartments on Juhu Tara Road in Santacruz (West), Mumbai – that were also up for sale remained unsold because of lack of buyers.Buyers found the bidding price too high like last time, when it was put up for sale on November 19, 2019, the official said. Competent authority Hari Govind Singh supervised the auction which was conducted by RN D’Souza, additional commissioner, Income Tax (I-T). The bidding was conducted through e-auction and sealed tenders and many bidders took part, despite the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. “The auction was a success,” the official added. Under SAFEMA, 1976, the Union finance ministry had planned to auction all 13 properties of Ibrahim in the first quarter of this year. But the Covid-19 outbreak, which was followed by 68-day nationwide lockdown restrictions, put paid to the plans. Section 68F of SAFEMA, 1976, empowers the authority to attach properties of family members and relatives of a fugitive.In April 2019, SAFEMA officials had auctioned a flat, measuring 600 square (sq) feet (ft), at Gordon Hall Apartments in Nagpada, Mumbai. The apartment, which belonged to Ibrahim’s sister Haseena Parkar, who had died in 2014, was sold for Rs 1.80 crore. Ibrahim’s brother Iqbal Kaskar was staying in the Nagpada apartment. In 2018, SAFEMA authorities had auctioned Ibrahim’s property, Amina Mansion, on Pakmodia Street in Mumbai. The reserved price of the property was Rs 79.43 lakh, and the bid was won by the Saifee Burhani Upliftment Trust (SBUT) for Rs 3.51 crore. In November 2017, SBUT had made the highest bid for the three sealed properties of the fugitive don. The Rounaq Afroz restaurant, also known as Delhi Zaika, was sold for Rs 4.53 crore. Six flats in Damarwala building were sold for Rs 3.53 crore, while Shabnam Guest House fetched a price of Rs 3.52 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/central-government-sells-dawood-ibrahim-s-six-properties-at-ratnagiri/story-fzwPbp3qC9ruDGnfEhlcLP.html
10-11-2020||Lucknow||Light and sound show, in Amitabh Bachchan’s voice, begins at Sarnath||Sarnath reverberated with the life and times of Lord Gautama Buddha in the baritone voice of actor Amitabh Bachchan on Monday evening, when the light and sound show came to life following its inauguration by Prime Minister Narendra Modi via a video-link. The light and sound show will be held daily between 7.30pm and 8pm at Dhamekh Stupa, a historical Buddhist site. The Rs7.88-crore project would mesmerise the visitors to Sarnath, said an official from the tourism department. “The show is a retelling of Lord Buddha’s life and his preaching. Sarnath is a holy site, where Lord Buddha had delivered his first sermons,” said Keertiman Srivastava, regional tourism officer.Also Read: National Green Tribunal restricts use of firecrackers for all festivals this yearBachchan narrated the story of Lord Buddha’s life, which would be displayed through colourful lights, he said. “The show will give a boost to tourism. A large number of international tourists visit Sarnath. However, most of them visit during the day. Their footfall is likely increase in the evening because of the show,” he said. “Visitors will get to know more about the importance of historical monuments in Sarnath and Lord’s Buddha’s life,” he added. The entry to the show was free for the visitors on the first day.UP minister for tourism Neelkanth Tiwari, Varanasi divisional commissioner Deepak Agarwal, and Varanasi district magistrate (DM) Kaushalraj Sharma and several other officials watched the show on the inaugural day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/light-and-sound-show-in-amitabh-bachchan-s-voice-begins-at-sarnath/story-h2jIfZ9zStH32ySR3SXwsM.html
10-11-2020||Pune||Students’ association steps in after tech issues plague SPPU re-exam||The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) conducted a reexamination for around 40,000 students from November 5 to 7 who couldn’t appear for the regular exams. However, only half of these students could appear for re exams due to tech glitches and other issues, so now the Maharashtra Students Welfare Association (MSWA) has come forward to help these students. The association is collecting data of such students through a Google form and has demanded to conduct the exams for these students again. “We’ve got hundreds of complaints from various department students about the re-examination that due to technical glitches they couldn’t appear or complete the exams. So we decided to collect the data of such students we made a Google form and within few hours hundreds of students raised their complaints. We will now forward all these issues and errors students faced to SPPU examination department,” said Vaibhav Edke, president, MSWA. From October 12, the SPPU started its final year exams for 3,300 subjects for which 2.5 lakh students enrolled. From the first day both online and offline students were facing a lot of issues while appearing for the exam. For the offline exams 113 centers were identified where the physical exams were conducted in Pune, Nashik and Ahmednagar districts. These exams were of 50 marks with multiple choice questions (MCQ) for a duration of one hour. While for all those students who couldn’t attend the exams in the first regular schedule due to any reasons were allowed to reappear for the exam from November 5 to 7. But this time the exams were conducted only in the online mode where students complained of tech issues. “There won’t be any exams again for the students those who have missed the exam in the re-examination. Now the students who didn’t appear for the exams can give the exams in the next schedule of exams which will be held in January now. While we are now preparing for the backlog students exams which are scheduled in the month of December. Also, the results of the exams conducted are being declared by our department now,” said Mahesh Kakade, director of the board of examination and evaluation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/students-association-steps-in-after-tech-issues-plague-sppu-re-exam/story-HvK4IAhPwR6OFoyYjpGmmN.html
10-11-2020||City||Maharashtra health minister promises assistance for medical college and hospital in Kalyan||Maharashtra minister for health and family welfare Rajesh Tope, who was in Kalyan for a review of the coronavirus disease (Covid -19) pandemic situation, assured help to build a medical college and hospital under the jurisdiction of the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) soon. “We are paying attention to the healthcare infrastructure in urban areas. We have decided to give permission to use the reserved plots under the KDMC’s jurisdiction, where a 500-bed medical college and hospital will be built under the public- private partnership (PPP) mode. The proposed facility will also have beds reserved for free treatment for patients from low-income groups. KDMC has shown interest in developing the hospital under the PPP mode,” said Tope. Also Read: Around 24k calls made for ambulance services after fresh spike in Covid-19 casesHe said that the Covid-19 situation in areas under KDMC’s jurisdiction were under control. It was a hotspot of the contagion till September, when 600 new Covid-19 cases were reported daily.The civic body’s latest data showed that 80 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported on Monday (November 9). “The Covid-19 situation in Kalyan and Dombivli, which was once a hotspot of the viral outbreak, is under control. The case fatality rate (CFR) is low at 1.99%, and the doubling and the recovery rate is 300 and 96%, respectively. The positivity rate is also very low. New Covid-19 daily cases, which were 600 till September, have fallen below 100. The civic body’s efforts have come good,” said Tope. “I have given a few directions to the civic body authorities such as implementing precautionary measures to contain the spread of the viral outbreak. New Covid-19 cases may rise because of upcoming Diwali, which will be celebrated on Saturday (November 14),” he added..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-health-minister-promises-assistance-for-medical-college-and-hospital-in-kalyan/story-zhKf7Ai9RVqEDhgSloyJaJ.html
10-11-2020||Pune||Diwali “Pahat” moves online in light of pandemic||With the Government of Maharashtra allowing auditoriums to open for drama/ theatre, the annual feature of “Diwali pahats” - classical music, dance and other cultural events held at the break of dawn in the city – is also moving online. The Diwali pahat is a Punekar tradition usually held on lawns, open gardens, as well as auditoriums. This year, none of this will be possible held due to the pandemic. Sunil Mahajan of the organisation Samvad, one of the oldest organisers of pahats, has cancelled the event in view of the pandemic. “There are more than 500 such programme organisers, but this year most of us are doubtful of holding a pahat. There is the option of going online, but it does not have the same feel or essence of a live performance. People come dressed in their Diwali finery to celebrate this festival of light, and enjoy these programmes, but online kills the idea. Why would one get up early to log in at 5.30 am?” said Mahajan. Dr Satish Desai said, “We have put together a programme of our past recordings of the late Pandit Jasraj and other artistes. We will stream it from 6.30 am to 8.30 am on November 14, the main day of Diwali.” Madhavi Vaidya, an author, is going to try a different kind of entertainment. “This year, on the four days of Diwali, our foundation Ananway Kavya Mehfil will post videos of poetry from various well known poets, between 8 am and 8.30 am for people to enjoy online. Ravindra Khare, trustee of the Bharat Natya Mandir, is contemplating staging a drama. “We are thinking of a Diwali sakal instead of Diwali pahat by putting up a performance of a play with 50 per cent audience, but we haven’t yet planned the logistics yet,” said Khare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/diwali-pahat-moves-online-in-light-of-pandemic/story-Bwujv7TnCDPu6Gqqx4c2rM.html
10-11-2020||Pune||Schools to resume on November 23 for Class 9 to 12||After Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced on Sunday that schools and junior college can begin classes from standard 9th to 12th on November 23, the state education department has begun gearing up for school reopening. According to state education commissioner Vishal Solanki, a meeting was held with senior officials of the Maharashtra government on the issue. “Schools from standard 9th to 12th will start from November 23 but in areas where Covid patients are more or in the containment zones schools will not start. Classes will start in only those areas where there are no or less Covid cases. Currently, we are working on to make SOPs related to starting schools. Later, looking at the response of 9th to 12th classes, a decision will be taken about standard 1st to 8th classes. And written permission is needed from parents to send their child to school,” Solanki said. However, now parents’ groups are asking the CM to rethink his decision, as they cannot risk lives of their children when it is said that a second wave of Covid-19 pandemic can come during the winter season. On the other hand, teachers and school principal associations have demanded to give proper guidelines according to which schools and junior colleges will be started. Also, it has demanded that the state government should allocate extra funds to schools for purchase of safety equipment related to Covid protocol. “The hurry made by state government to start the schools is not necessary, if a student tests Covid positive after coming to school again he/she needs to go into 15 days isolation. And if any teacher tests positive then the entire class will be closed. On what basis and on whose trust or responsibility parents will send their children to school in such a crisis situation. If schools are started now, then parents will again be pressurised to pay school fees. So, our demand is that state government should rethink about this decision,” said Mukund Kirdat, co-ordinator, Pune Parents United. Meanwhile, school principal association and teachers’ association have demanded to release guidelines about starting schools and junior colleges. Also, to purchase safety related equipment like hand sanitizers, face masks, thermal scanners and Oxymetres state government should allocate funds for it.“We are ready to start classes physically for students from November 23 but for that there should be necessary guidelines given by the education department. Along with that funds are required to purchase several safety related equipment on large scale to disinfect school premises. So, state government should give funds to schools for purchase of these equipment,” said Mahendra Ganpule, state spokesperson of principals association. Sanjay Shendge, principal of Seth Dagaduram Katariya High School said, “We have started preparations for starting physical classes in our school from November 23. School cleaning and sanitising will be done regularly and our teachers are preparing for it. We will be calling half a number of students for three days continuously and the rest half on the next three days. So that social distancing is maintained and students will study in a link of continuous three days.” “This decision on the date of reopening will be taken after consultation with the Parent-teacher association. It is very likely that when we reopen school, we will work in two shifts, and to maintain social distance, we will only have 12-18 students in each classroom depending on the size of the class. Even if school reopens, online classes will still be available for students. However, the final call will be taken after consultation with the association.” said Dr Aanieetaa Vaissnava, principal of Orchids - The International School, Nigdi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/schools-to-resume-on-november-23-for-class-9-to-12/story-PLSEVlSEzcXuYjh0bIx1bL.html
10-11-2020||Delhi||Around 24k calls made for ambulance services after fresh spike in Covid-19 cases||With the national capital witnessing a fresh surge in cases of Covid-19, nearly 24,000 calls have been made by people to access Delhi government-run ambulance services during emergency situations in the last two weeks in the city, according to official data.Besides, the centralised Control Room set up by the Delhi government has received over 5,000 calls to seek coronavirus-related information.On October 26, the city recorded 54 deaths pushing the toll to 6,312. The next day, 4,853 fresh cases and 44 fatalities were reported.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageFrom October 28 onwards, the surge has been huge and over 5,000 daily cases were recorded per day from October 28-November 1.Over 7,000 daily fresh cases have been recorded on two days in November (November 6 and November 8), over 6,000 daily cases four times, and more than 70 fatalities have been reported every day for the last three days, the highest in over four months.In this two-week period, the number of calls made by people for accessing ambulance services of Centralised Accident and Trauma Services (CATS) through government helplines like 102, and the number of calls made to the Covid-19 Control Room have also jumped.On November 8, the daily infection tally was 7745, the highest single-day spike here till date. The number of ambulance calls made on that day stood at 1857 and 337 calls were made to the control room.According to a senior health official manning the Control Room based in Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS) Delhi headquarters in Karkardooma in east Delhi, about “400 calls on an average are received per day by the Control Room”.As per the official data, 5,109 calls have been received at the Control Room in the last two weeks.From October 26 to November 9, around 23,680 calls have been made by people to seek ambulance services, as per the data.In this period, a staggering number of new cases -- over 86,000 -- have been reported.The staff at the Control Room said a team of 15 people work in rotational six-hour shifts round-the-clock to address queries related to Covid-19.“We tell them about precautions to be taken, measures to follow during home isolation and guide them to 102 helpline to call ambulances, as they can tell a driver the exact address. If routed through us, it becomes very tedious, so only in rare cases, we dispatch calls to CATS ambulance,” a member of the staff at the Control Room told PTI.“We are here 24x7 to provide all logistical support,” the staff member said.As the national capital reels under the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic here, the number of patients under home isolation in Delhi mounted to over 25,000 on Monday, a rise of 54 per cent in the last two weeks, while the containment zones count has expanded by over 32 per cent in the same period.Delhi recorded more than 70 fatalities from Covid-19 for the third consecutive day on Monday, taking the death toll to 7060, while 5023 fresh cases pushed the infection tally in the national capital to over 4.4 lakh, according to a bulletin by the health department.Seventy-one deaths were recorded in the city, it said.The 5,023 fresh cases were detected following the 39,115 tests conducted on Sunday. The total number of cases climbed to 4,43,552, Monday’s bulletin said.The national capital’s positivity rate stood at 12.84 per cent while the recovery rate was over 89 per cent.The death rate based on the last 10 days’ average is 0.95 per cent while the cumulative case fatality rate is 1.59 per cent, the bulletin said.On Sunday, Delhi had recorded 77 deaths and its highest single-day spike of 7,745 cases. On Saturday, 79 fatalities were recorded.The National Centre for Disease Control in a report drafted recently had warned that Delhi needs to be prepared for about 15,000 fresh cases of Covid-19 per day, taking into account the upcoming winter season-related respiratory problems, large influx of patients from outside and festive gatherings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/around-24k-calls-made-for-ambulance-services-after-fresh-spike-in-covid-19-cases/story-75mZtgM16fwQDfdfGrnXVO.html
10-11-2020||Kolkata||Leopard skin seized in Kolkata; two arrested||The Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB) and the state forest department on Monday seized a leopard skin and arrested two men from the Tollygunge area of south Kolkata. The raid that led to the seizure and the arrests was conducted on the basis of an intelligence report received by WCCB. The arrested men have been identified as Pintu Mahato, 32, and his brother, Shankar Mahato, 29, said Agni Mitra, deputy director (eastern region), WCCB. The accused men were being interrogated. Both are residents of the Haridevpur area in the southern fringes of Kolkata.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/leopard-skin-seized-in-kolkata-two-arrested/story-Dr9q8qoNuYbcIEOu2YnsoJ.html
10-11-2020||Delhi||MCD employees continue to protest against non-payment of salaries at Civic Centre||The employees of the Municipal Corporation of Delhi on Tuesday continued their protest at the Civic Centre against the non-payment of salaries and pensions for the second day in a row.They shouted slogans like ‘Vetan Do’ (Give us our salaries), ‘Vetan lene aaye hai’ (We have come to take our salaries), ‘Paanch mahine se bina vetan kaam’ (Working without pay for past five months).With Diwali festivities around the corner, the employees have said that the demonstration will continue until the MCD authorities do not credit their salaries and give them the annual bonus as well.During their demonstration on Monday, Shakuntala Devi, an MCD employee had said: “I haven’t received my salary since June 4. We’re protesting since morning because there isn’t any other way to fetch our rights now. We demand the clearance of our monthly dues and we should be paid our bonuses as well. MCD administration had promised to clear our dues soon but they have failed. They paid the doctors of the three municipal hospitals after their protest and we were sidelined. Now our protest will continue as long as our salaries aren’t paid.”The resident doctors of Hindu Rao Hospital had protested for a few weeks against the non-payment of salaries after which their demands were met on October 29. The MCD employees who are protesting currently expressed their annoyance over the administration’s ignorance of their demands as they paid the resident doctors to end their strike.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/mcd-employees-continue-to-protest-against-non-payment-of-salaries-at-civic-centre/story-BwCGtRmh730KzwLwM3NbeN.html
10-11-2020||Election:||Bihar Polls: Result day becomes ‘golden opportunity’ for vendors at Tejashwi Yadav residence||On the counting day for the Bihar assembly election on Tuesday, many vendors were seen near the residence of Mahagathbandan chief ministerial candidate Tejashwi Yadav, trying to encash on the increased footfall. From ice cream vendors to sugarcane juice sellers, even mobile shops near the residence reaped profit due to the increased numbers at the site.After the exit polls unanimously predicted a high vote count in favour of Tejashwi Yadav-led Grand Alliance, supporters and well-wishers queued up to wish the 31-year-old Chief Ministerial candidate.Supporters of Tejashwi gathered outside his residence ahead of the result declaration of Bihar assembly constituencies. A father-son duo from Samastipur village came all the way to Yadav’s residence in Patna along with fish.Click here for complete coverage of Bihar assembly elections. “As fish marks ‘good luck,’ we have brought it. This time, people want a change, therefore it’s 100 per cent sure that ‘Mahaghatbandhan’ will win,” Kundan Kumar Sahni told ANI.RJD supporters held Tejashwi Yadav’s picture and stood outside his residence.The fate of 3,755 candidates across 243 seats will be decided with the Election Commission setting up a total of 55 counting centres, housing 414 halls, spread across all the 38 districts of the state that voted in three phases on October 28, November 3 and November 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-polls-result-day-becomes-golden-opportunity-for-vendors-at-tejashwi-yadav-residence/story-fvMY0jh2yTJycrPAkoaX7M.html
10-11-2020||City||Odisha plans closure of 18 under-occupied jails||Overcrowding of jails may be a problem in the rest of the country, but the Odisha prisons department has sought the state government’s permission to shut at least 18 of its 88 jails that are under-occupied.“In the first instance, we have proposed the closure of 12 jails. As the video-conferencing facilities are available in the nearby bigger jails, it would be easier to produce the inmates of the closed jails before the courts concerned,” said Odisha’s director general of prisons, Santosh Upadhyay.According to official data, there were 17,563 undertrials and convicts in the 88 jails against the capacity of 19,291, which accounts for an occupancy rate of 91%. Till the end of 2019, there were 4,78,000 inmates in 1,350 jails across the country against a capacity of around 400,000. Delhi had the highest occupancy rate in prisons of 174.9% followed by Uttar Pradesh (167.9%) and Uttarakhand (159.0%) till December 31, 2019.Also Read: Odisha: Standing committee recommends 7-year jail for purchase of paddy below MSPUpadhyay said many of the jails being closed were built when the state was under the British rule. “While the jail at Pallahara has a capacity for 58 inmates, even half of it is not filled. Jails like one in Madanpur-Rampur of Kalahandi, and in Bargarh’s Sohela, the inmate population is also very low,” he said.A new prison for convicts has also come up at Athgarh. A second such jail is coming up in Sundargarh to house 1,000.Officials said the closure of jails would help in redistribution of the existing staff guarding the jails. Currently, 292 jail guard posts are vacant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/odisha-plans-closure-of-18-under-occupied-jails/story-n32uVl8dFehZtMkASvPBPI.html
10-11-2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Three arrested for duping Institution of Engineers of Rs35 crore||Sleuths of the Kolkata Police’s detective department arrested three persons, including a former manager of a nationalised bank, for allegedly duping the Institution of Engineers (India) of Rs 35 crore using forged fixed deposit documents. Police said that the mastermind of the racket was a 48-year-old man identified as Aroun Pandey. An alleged fraudster, he had been earlier arrested in 2012 for another bank fraud. “Earlier this year, Pandey along with the then branch manager of a nationalised bank issued fake quotation letters to the IEI for investing in fixed deposits promising a high rate of return. Fake FD certificates were issued too,” said a Kolkata Police officer. Also Read: Kolkata Police files case against activist for spreading misinformationThe century-old IEI is the national organisation of engineers in India with its headquarters in Kolkata. The other two have been identified as Krishnendu Mullick and Samrat Paul. Paul is a former bank manager.According to the police, around Rs 35 crore was debited from different bank accounts of the IEI on different dates earlier this year through RTGS and siphoned off to various bank accounts. They were later withdrawn by the gang. “The prime accused Pandey was arrested from Mandarmani, a popular beach resort in West Bengal, on Saturday. The rest two, including the former bank manager, were picked up from their houses in central Kolkata and North 24 Parganas district,” said the officer. While efforts were on to recover the stolen amount sleuths, meanwhile, have seized cash amounting Rs 1.9 crore, 200 gm gold and a BMW car.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/kolkata-three-arrested-for-duping-institution-of-engineers-of-rs35-crore/story-dcnsDAb0XYIYqsn7IYSmJL.html
10-11-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Months after anti-CAA protests, protesters get notices||Activists who took part in protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), 2019, at Roshan Bagh in Prayagraj last December and earlier this year, are being served notices in connection with the first information reports (FIRs) lodged against them.The police had cracked down on several people who were involved in the protests. Congress leader Irshad Ullah was served the notice on Sunday.Ullah claimed that he was threatened by police. The notice is being served to those who were involved in the protests at Mansoor Ali Park under section 41 (arrest with warrant) of the Criminal Code of Procedure (CrPC). Hundreds of women, along with men, had staged a sit-in demonstration against CAA, 2019 at Mansoor Ali Park for around three months since last December.The protest ended due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.protesters had also taken out a march against CAA, 2019, despite Section 144 (a ban on assembly of five or more people) of CrPC was clamped.FIRs were lodged against protesters at Khuldabad, Kotwali, Kareli, Shahganj, Civil Lines and areas under the jurisdictions of some other police stations of the town for violation of section 144.Another FIR was filed at Khuldabad police station for an assault on Kalimullah, the in-charge of Atala police outpost.Corporator Fazal Khan and some other people were arrested for the assault on Kalimullah. The notice has been issued against around 200 people and some of the cases are being investigated by the crime branch of Prayagraj Police.Vinit Singh, station house officer (SHO), Khuldabad, said notice was being served under section 41 to those who had staged anti-CAA, 2019 protests and also violated section 144 of the CrPC.Allahabad HC grants stay on arrest of ImamThe Allahabad high court (HC) has ordered a stay on the arrest of Atala Masjid imam Ahmad Ali and Suhaib-ur-Rehman, who were accused of staging protests against the CAA, 2019 at Mansoor Ali Park. The stay order on the arrest of these two persons has been issued until the filing of the charge sheet, said lawyer Syed Ahmad Naseem.Ali and Rehman had filed a writ petition in this connection, but the court refused to cancel the FIR, the lawyer added. Some pamphlets were found on March 6 at Kareli, where the public was urged to join the anti-CAA, 2019 protests at Roshan Bagh, the FIR had alleged. The pamphlets contained objectionable statements, the FIR had added. Some persons arrested in the case are out on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-months-after-anti-caa-protests-protesters-get-notices/story-1ED3XlvYpmoPr6Gq5sBI1M.html
10-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: MMR records fewer new Covid-19 cases||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak in the densely populated Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), which comprises the city and its neighbouring districts, appears to have ebbed, as there has been a significant dip in fresh cases. MMR, which consists of nine municipal corporations including Mumbai and adjoining Thane, Palghar and Raigad districts, reported 1,094 Covid-19 cases on Monday, as compared to 4,614 exactly a month ago, the data from the Maharashtra health and family welfare department showed.MMR has reported the maximum number of Covid-19 cases till Monday at 597,617.The Pune region is next to MMR as far as the viral outbreak is concerned. Also Read: India reports less than 40,000 Covid-19 cases for second time in NovemberIt reported 631 new Covid-19 cases – the second highest in Maharashtra — on Monday and recorded 433,797 viral infection cases to date.Pune region comprises five municipal corporations, including Pune and neighbouring Solapur, Satara, Kolhapur and Sangli districts.“We have been observing a decline in Covid-19 cases across Maharashtra. The scenario in MMR is no exception,” said an official from the state health and family welfare department. Maharashtra recorded 3,277 new Covid-19 cases on Monday – the lowest since June 24, when 3,890 cases were reported. The low count can be attributed to a lower daily testing figure at 42,405.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-mmr-records-fewer-new-covid-19-cases/story-PBbV0gbmASzIAyyX5XlpAO.html
10-11-2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh Bypoll Results 2020: BJP leads in 19 constituencies, Congress leads in Chambal||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Madhya Pradesh, which needs to win eight seats to remain in power, was leading in 19 of the 28 constituencies where bypolls were held on November 3, according to early trends available on the Election Commission (EC) website.The Congress, which won 27 of these seats in the 2018 assembly elections, was leading on eight seats and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) on one. Congress was doing better in the Chambal region.Most of the 12 ministers in chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s Cabinet contesting the bypolls were leading. The three ministers trailing include Aidal Singh Kansana, Girraj Dandotia, and OPS Bhadauria, in the Chambal region.Two ex-ministers, Govind Singh Rajput and Tulsi Silavat, were also leading.Also Read: D-day for 58 assembly seats across 11 statesThe ministers leading in the early rounds of counting of votes include Mahendra Singh Sisodia, Pradyumn Singh Tomar, Imrati Devi, Prabhuram Chaudhary, Bisahu Lal Singh, Rajvardhan Singh, Hardeep Singh Dang, Suresh Dhakad, and Brijendra Yadav.The trends indicated a comfortable victory for the BJP. The party’s workers have started celebrating at the state BJP headquarters in Bhopal and in the constituencies where party candidates are in comfortable positions. Sweets were distributed at the state BJP office.As per the trends so far, Bisahu Lal Singh was leading by more than 11,000 votes against his nearest rival Congress’ Vishwanath in Anuppur constituency. In Sanchi, health minister Prabhuram Chaudhary was leading by more than 25,000 votes. Industrial and investment promotion minister Rajvardhan Singh was ahead of his Congress rival by more than 21,000 votes.Panchayat and rural development minister Mahendra Singh Sisodia was leading by more than 17,000 votes against his nearest rival. Woman and child development minister Imrati Devi was ahead of her nearest rival by about 2,000 votes.Chouhan said, “People of Madhya Pradesh have again given their mandate to the BJP which is determined for public welfare, as is evident as per the counting of votes so far.”State Congress president Kamal Nath said, “These are early trends. The situation will be clear within an hour or so.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-bypoll-results-2020-bjp-leads-in-19-constituencies-congress-leads-in-chambal/story-FErPWYUlrW7URGDxdJRuxL.html
10-11-2020||Delhi||Move HC against decision on ICU beds reservation for Covid-19 patients: SC to Delhi govt||The Supreme Court Tuesday asked the AAP government to approach the Delhi High Court with its plea against staying of its decision to reserve 80% ICU beds in 33 private hospitals for Covid-19 patients.A vacation bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and B R Gavai took note of the urgent plea of the Delhi government on the ground of a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases in the national capital and said its appeal be listed for hearing on Thursday instead of November 27 by a division bench of the high court.A single judge bench of the high court on September 22 had stayed the Delhi government’s September 12 decision saying that asking 33 big private hospitals to reserve 80 per cent of ICU beds for Covid-19 patients would violate the fundamental rights of those having other health conditions.The government has already challenged the single judge’s order before a division bench of the high court which had listed it for hearing on November 27.The apex court was hearing an appeal filed by the Delhi government against the high court’s September 22 order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/move-hc-against-decision-on-icu-beds-reservation-for-covid-19-patients-sc-to-delhi-govt/story-XFrIVjM10t5t9wnfzN5fsI.html
10-11-2020||Mumbai||At 19.2 degrees, Mumbai records coolest morning of season so far||Mumbai recorded its lowest minimum temperature of the season so far on Tuesday. The Santacruz weather observatory, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, recorded the minimum temperature at 19.2 degrees Celsius, over 3 degrees Celsius below normal. The Colaba weather station, representative of south Mumbai, recorded 22.5 degrees Celsius, a degree Celsius below normal. Mumbai had recorded 19.7 degrees Celsius on November 7, but the minimum temperature kept fluctuating thereafter. It increased to 25 degrees Celsius on November 8 and then dropped back to 23 degrees Celsius over the weekend. Also Read: Mumbai civic body allows firecrackers only on Diwali day: Traders upset, activists welcome itThe weather bureau on Sunday had predicted a drop in temperature from Tuesday. “Cool winds from easterly to northeasterly direction from late Monday night and early Tuesday morning allowed the night temperature to dip. However this fall is short-lived as the wind pattern is likely to change again from Thursday onwards,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, India Meteorological Department (IMD). The IMD has predicted clear conditions and said the maximum temperature could rise to 36 degrees Celsius while the minimum temperature could be around 21 degrees Celsius on Wednesday. While the minimum temperature has remained low, the maximum temperature recorded at 5.30pm continues to be above normal in the city and suburbs, showing high variability through the day. On Monday, the maximum temperature was 34.7 degrees Celsius. “This is happening due to the late setting in of sea breeze and increase in heat radiation through the day due to clear skies,” said an IMD official. The drop in temperature did not affect the city’s air quality on Tuesday, as the pollutant measuring indicator, the air quality index (AQI) reading, was recorded at 142 (moderate) even though there was a thin layer of haze. An AQI reading of 149 (moderate) has been predicted for Wednesday.Meanwhile, most parts of interior Maharashtra recorded cold conditions over the past two days with the lowest minimum temperature recorded at Chandrapur at 9 degrees Celsius followed by Parbhani at 10.1 degrees Celsius. Pune recorded 11.3 degrees Celsius while Nashik recorded 11.8 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-coolest-morning-of-season-so-far-minimum-temp-drops-to-19-2-degrees-celsius/story-PD0rPluOPHlKqK536dIbdJ.html
10-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi court orders FIR against gurdwara committee head, says allegations ‘serious in nature’||A Delhi court on November 7 directed the registration of an FIR against Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) president Manjinder Singh Sirsa and other unknown persons in the agency for the misappropriation of funds while Sirsa was the general secretary. The court said that the allegations levelled against Sirsa and other members of the DSGMC are “serious in nature”.Additional chief metropolitan magistrate Dhirendra Rana said that the bills submitted to the court do not bear the signatures of anyone from the DSGMC.The judge also said that the role of the then president also requires investigation to check why he had claimed payment on such bills.Also Read: On Kartarpur anniversary, Pak says India yet to reopen its side of corridorIt is a matter of investigation as to who approved these bills and how, the court said, adding the bills “are looking fictitious prima facie”, while directing the Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP), Economics Offences Wing (EOW), to look into the matter and give the court a copy of the FIR on the next date of hearing, i.e, November 21. The court’s order came after a Sikh devotee, who is also a stakeholder in the funds received by the DSGMC, lodged a complaint. The plea by one Bhupinder Singh had contended that Sirsa had caused loss of public funds to the tune of Rs 65,99,729 by showing sham transactions with various entities without any actual goods or services being provided.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday had demanded that Sirsa be suspended as the president of DSGMC.While addressing a press conference on Monday, AAP leader Jarnail Singh said, “It hurts to see the insult of the treasury of the Gurdwara because whenever a devotee puts money in the Gurdwara treasury, they expect that the money will be used for a noble cause such as langars or schools or hospitals under DSGMC. But the court order from November 7 is a living example of the misuse of the money that has been happening for the last few years.”When contacted, Sirsa said, “There are no allegations against me. The court has said that payments should be investigated to ascertain whether there are proper bills available or not. The bills were approved by the then president Manjit Singh GK and not by me.” Manjit Singh GK, former DSGMC president, denied his role and said that Sirsa was trying to mislead everyone. “The court has named Sirsa and asked for an FIR to be registered in his name. I have evidence that he had got the payments made under his signatures for erecting tents at the homes of top Akali leaders. As per the DSGMC Act 1971, that governs the working of Gurdwara committee, the general secretary is the administrative head as he is in charge of accounts, purchase and personal matters.”“Everyone wants to take political advantage of the situation, especially when the DSGMC is heading for the polls. The law will take its course. AAP MLA (Jarnail Singh) should not be too keen to comment as matter is in the jurisdiction of the court,” said SAD spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-court-orders-fir-against-gurdwara-committee-head-says-allegations-serious-in-nature/story-tA31bSJq1dYgaraM8rDHNP.html
10-11-2020||City||Haryana: Congress leading after second round of counting in Sonepat’s Baroda bypoll||Congress established an early lead in the counting of votes for by election to the Baroda assembly seat in Haryana’s Sonepat district as per initial trends.Congress nominee Indu Raj Narwal is leading by 662 votes after the second round of counting. Narwal received 5,322 votes, his nearest rival wrestler Yogeshwar Dutt of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) 4,660 votes. The Loktantra Suraksha party chief Raj Kumar Saini received 899 votes and Indian National Lok Dal’s (INLD) Joginder Malik got 701 votes.The by-election for this assembly seat had taken place on November 3.Sonepat deputy commissioner (DC) Shyam Lal Punia said the counting of votes started at 8am.Also Read: D-day for 58 assembly seats across 11 states“Six nakas have been established near the counting centre. Three-tier security has been deployed to ensure peaceful counting. The Election Commission of India received a total of 438 postal ballots and 155 ballots of service voters. We urge people to stay at home and avoid large gatherings,” the DC said.The Baroda assembly seat had recorded an overall turnout of 68% on November 3. There are 14 candidates in the fray from the constituency. The seat became vacant in April following the death of Congress MLA Krishan Hooda, who had won it thrice consecutively in 2009, 2014 and 2019.While the BJP fielded Olympian wrestler Yogeshwar Dutt, who lost by about 4,800 votes to Hooda in the 2019 assembly election, the Congress backed a newcomer, Indu Raj Narwal, a former member of the Sonepat zila parishad. Seven independents and four candidates belonging to other parties, including former Kurukshetra MP Raj Kumar Saini, who heads the Loktantra Suraksha Party, are also in the fray from the constituency.Anant Ram, a retired professor of political science at Bhiwani Government College, said the bypoll is a challenge for Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda to save his bastion and the results will reflect on performance of the BJP-JJP government.“A win here will underscore Hooda’s hold in the Deshwali belt and restore the Congress tally in the assembly to 31. However, the bypoll is significant for the BJP-JJP government as the outcome will reflect the performance of the government and mood of the voters towards the alliance partner,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-congress-leading-after-first-round-of-counting-in-sonepat-s-baroda-bypoll/story-RgcWutNIzH1pweAdwLS6zO.html
10-11-2020||Election:||Bihar Election 2020: Result updates for Kusheshwar Asthan, Hayaghat, Kalyanpur, Warisnagar, Samastipur, Rosera||Kusheshwar Asthan, Hayaghat, Kalyanpur, Warisnagar, Samastipur and Rosera are assembly constituencies in Bihar which together constitute the state’s Samastipur Lok Sabha seat. These constituencies recently witnessed polling as Bihar, which has total 243 assembly seats, went to polls in three phases on October 28, November 3 and November 7. In 2015, the JD(U) won Kushseshwar Asthan, Hayaghat and Warisnagar while the RJD and BJP took Samastipur and Kalyanpur respectively, and Congress took Rosera. This time, the exit poll has suggested a victory for the Mahagathbandhan paving the way for RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav to become the next chief minister of Bihar. Click here for full Bihar assembly election 2020 coverageHere is a look at the performance of all the parties in these six seats in Bihar Assembly Election 2020:Kusheshwar Asthan assembly election 2020 result updates: The JD(U)’s Shashibhushan Hajari wins the race beating Congress’ Dr. Ashok Kumar in second place by 7,222 votes. An assembly constituency in Darbhanga, Kusheshwar Asthan is a seat reserved for the Scheduled Caste (SC) candidates. In the previous two assembly elections, in 2010 and 2015, incumbent MLA Shashi Bhushan Hazari won on both occasions. However, while in 2015 Hazari won as a JD(U) candidate, in 2010, he contested and won as a nominee of the BJP. On both occasions, he defeated LJP candidates.Hayaghat assembly election 2020 result updates:BJP’s Ram Chandra Prasad wins the race, beating RJD’s Bhola Yadav by 10,252 votes. Amarnath Gami won from the Hayaghat assembly constituency in both the previous Bihar assembly elections, in 2010 and 2015. However, while in 2010 he won as a BJP candidate, in 2015, he was victorious as a JD(U) nominee. Also, last month, Gami took membership of the RJD, whose candidate Hari Nandan Yadav won the Hayaghat seat in the twin assembly polls of 2015Kalyanpur assembly election 2020 result updates:RJD’s Manoj Kumar Yadav pulls ahead of BJP’s Sachindra Prasad Singh. NDA allies JD(U) and the BJP have spilt the Kalyanpur assembly seat in the last two assembly elections, with JD(U) candidate Razia Khatoon winning in 2010 and Sachindra Prasad Singh of the BJP defeating her in 2015. The RJD, too, has tasted victory from this seat, with its candidate Ashok Prasad Verma winning in the February 2005 assembly polls and then in bypolls in 2009.Warisnagar assembly election 2020 result updates:JD(U)’s Ashok Kumar overtakes the CPI(M-L)’s Phoolbabu Singh to take the lead in the race. The Warisnagar assembly constituency, in Bihar’s Samastipur district, is currently held by chief minister Kumar’s JD(U). Ashok Kumar won this seat for the party for two consecutive assembly polls in 2010 and 2015. The LJP has also tasted victory from here thrice in recent years, in the twin assembly polls of 2005 and bypolls in 2009. In 2000, JD(U) candidate Ram Sewak Hazari was the winner from this constituencySamastipur assembly election 2020 result updates: Ashwamedh Devi of the JD(U) leads RJD’s Akhtarul Islam Shahin of the RJD. Samastipur is an RJD-held constituency, as the party’s nominee in the two previous assembly polls, Akhtarul Islam Sahin, emerged victorious from here in both 2010 and 2015. Before him, the seat was held for three consecutive terms by JD(U) nominee Ram Nath Thakur. In fact, in 2010, Sahin had defeated Thakur to win this seat before defeating BJP candidate Renu Kumari in 2015.Rosera assembly election 2020 result updates:BJP’s Birendra Kumar leads the race with Nagendra Kumar Vikal of the Congress in second place. Rosera is a Congress-held assembly constituency, whose candidate Dr Ashok Kumar was victorious from here in 2015. In 2010, the seat was won by BJP candidate Manju Hazari who then lost to Kumar in 2015. RJD nominee Gajendra Prasad Singh was triumphant from Rosera in the twin assembly polls of 2005. A seat reserved for the Scheduled Caste (SC) candidates, Rosera is in Bihar’s Samastipur district.Catch all the major LIVE updates from the Bihar Election Results hereThe 243-member Bihar assembly went to polls in three phases - the first with 71 constituencies on October 28, the second with 94 constituencies on November 3 and the third with 78 constituencies on November 7. The Nitish Kumar-led JD(U) fought the 2015 election along with the RJD and Congress as part of the Mahagathbandhan in 2015. This year, the JD(U) reunited with the NDA. But the Chirag Paswan-led party decided to split from the alliance and contested the Bihar assembly elections alone.All the three phases witnessed a good voter turnout amid the coronavirus pandemic in the country. The Election Commission of India (ECI) had laid several Covid-19 related guidelines such as regular sanitising of polling booths, provision of gloves and masks to those visiting the booths to exercise their franchise and maintenance of social distancing at all times. The commission also allowed Covid-19 infected patients placed under home or institutional quarantine to participate by the way of postal ballots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-election-2020-result-updates-for-kusheshwar-asthan-hayaghat-kalyanpur-warisnagar-samastipur-rosera/story-Re3tawfaZCpLhz5nHe6JzL.html
10-11-2020||City||Odisha: Standing committee recommends 7-year jail for purchase of paddy below MSP||Days after Punjab passed a law providing for at least three-year imprisonment for anyone selling or purchasing wheat or paddy below minimum support price (MSP), a standing committee of Odisha’s food supply department has recommended at least seven-year jail term and fine for anyone found buying paddy from farmers less than MSP. Congress lawmaker Narasingha Mishra-led panel has recommended to the government to enact a law for the purpose and also make the jail term non-bailable. “While the law passed by Punjab government has said three years imprisonment, we want it to be seven years to send a message to anyone cheating the farmers,” said Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/odisha-standing-committee-recommends-7-year-jail-for-purchase-of-paddy-below-msp/story-RYIgjLxM1dz6bFOk3yLKqO.html
10-11-2020||Lucknow||Severe air quality in 9 Uttar Pradesh cities; Ghaziabad, Greater Noida worst in country||Ghaziabad and Greater Noida recorded the worst air quality across the country. The air quality index (AQI) in Ghaziabad and Greater Noida was recorded at 482 each.At least nine towns and cities in Uttar Pradesh (UP) recorded “severe” air quality, according to data released by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) on Monday.Noida (479), Agra (475), Bulandshahr (450), Kanpur (404), Hapur (402) and Meerut (401) all recorded “severe: AQI. An AQI between 401 and 500 is considered to be in the “severe” category, and is known to have an adverse impact on health conditions, according to experts.Also Read: Delhi air severely polluted for sixth consecutive dayLucknow recorded an average AQI of 388, as the reading ranged from 335 to 449 at different parts of the state capital.An AQI between 301 and 400 is considered to be in the “very poor” category.As per the CPCB data, the major pollutants in the region were particulate matter (PM 10), PM 2.5 and vehicular emission.PM10 are particles with a diameter of 10 micrometers and they are also called fine particles. Environmental experts say PM10 is also known as respirable PM. PM is a complex mixture of soot, smoke, metals, nitrates, sulphates, dust water and rubber.PM 2. 5 refers to particles that have diameter less than 2.5 micrometres (more than 100 times thinner than a human hair) and remain suspended in the air far longer. These particles are formed because of burning fuel and chemical reactions that take place in the atmosphere.The Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) authorities recently issued a fresh advisory to all the 75 district administrations to check the rise in air pollution. Efforts are also in progress to prevent stubble burning and illegal construction activities.“We are keeping a tab on air pollution and are taking measures to reduce it. The public is being penalised for causing air pollution. We are also making people aware about the hazards of air pollution,” said Ram Karan, regional officer, UPPCB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/severe-air-quality-in-9-uttar-pradesh-cities-ghaziabad-greater-noida-worst-in-country/story-xY4KE2y1f4ESpofYOe9n7K.html
10-11-2020||Lucknow||Counting of votes for Uttar Pradesh assembly bypolls today||The counting of the votes polled in seven Uttar Pradesh (UP) assembly seats, where bypolls were held last Saturday (November 3), started from 8 am on Tuesday (November 10) amid precautionary measures due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.UP chief electoral officer (CEO) Ajay Kumar Shukla said the Election Commission of India (ECI) has made adequate arrangements for personal protective equipment (PPE) kits such as face shields, masks, thermal scanners, gloves, sanitisers, soaps and water for those who have been deputed for the counting.An average of over 53% of voters had exercised their franchise to decide the electoral fate of 88 candidates, including nine women, for the Naugawan Sadat, Tundla, Bangarmau, Bulandshahr, Deoria, Ghatampur and Malhani assembly seats.Also Read: D-day for 58 assembly seats across 11 states“A maximum seven tables have been be placed in a counting hall. The counting of votes for Bulandshahar and Malahani assembly segments are being done in three halls each while counting for the remaining five constituencies are being conducted in two halls each,” Shukla said.“Adequate security forces have been deployed at the counting centres to maintain law and order. The ECI has deputed seven observers to monitor the exercise. The results of all the seven seats are likely to be declared by Tuesday evening,” he added.Of the seven assembly seats, where bypolls were held, six and one were held by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Samajwadi Party (SP), respectively, in the 2017 assembly elections.UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath and the BJP’s state unit president Swatantra Dev Singh had led the party’s campaign on all the seven seats. The SP had also campaigned vigorously. The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and the Congress had also mobilised their resources to increase their strength in the 403-member UP legislative assembly.AK Saxena, a political observer, said the results of the by-election would set the tone for the 2022 UP assembly polls. The results would reflect the mood of voters both in urban and rural areas in the wake of Covid-19--induced lockdown since the assembly seats are spread across the state. “Economic slowdown, new agriculture policy and migrants’ issues were raised by the political parties during the campaigning. The results will also reflect the voters’ reaction to these issues,” he said.The maximum number of candidates in the electoral fray is in the Bulandshahr assembly seat, followed by Malhan (16)i, 14 each in Deoria and Naugawan Sadat, 10 each in Tundla and Bangarmau and six in Ghatampur. The Naugawan Sadat, Ghatampur, Bulandshahar, Deoria and Malhani assembly seats fell vacant after the death of sitting lawmakers Chetan Chauhan, Kamal Rani Varun, Virendra Singh Sirohi, Janmejai Singh and Prasanath Yadav, respectively.The Bangarmau assembly seat in Unnao district fell vacant after the disqualification of the then sitting legislator Kuldeep Singh Sengar following his conviction in a rape case on December 20, 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/counting-of-votes-for-uttar-pradesh-assembly-bypolls-today/story-H13nJKhMXsvD9v8DQkOLiN.html
10-11-2020||Lucknow||Only laser show of fireworks this Deepotsav in UP’s Ayodhya||The Uttar Pradesh government has decided that there will be only laser display of firecrackers at Deepotsav in Ayodhya this year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. “On this Deepotsav in Ayodhya there will be only virtual display of firecrackers. This year Deepotsav will be digital,” said Navneet Sehgal, additional chief secretary, information. Other attractions of the Deepotsav will be a laser show display of lord Ram’s arrival in Ayodhya after 14 years of exile. Prominent dance shows of the country, like Bharatnatyam, Odissi, Manipuri, Kuchipudi and Kathak will also be displayed through a laser show. Meanwhile, the state tourism department has launched a campaign on micro-blogging site Twitter to reach out to a large audience and apprise them about the Deepotsav celebration in Ayodhya. The tourism department has launched hashtag #Deepotsav2002. Three other hashtags have been launched, including #EkDeeyaMeraBhi, #DiwaliAyodhyaWali and #MeraDeepotsav. All three hashtags have been launched to ensure participation of people in Deepotsav virtually.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/only-laser-show-of-fireworks-this-deepotsav-in-up-s-ayodhya/story-GhsYWNTyArJxsOpc65tLzL.html
10-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi air severely polluted for sixth consecutive day||Delhi continued to record “severe” air quality for the sixth consecutive day. The city’s air quality index (AQI) reading on Tuesday morning was 487. On Monday, the city’s average AQI reading was 477. At 7am, the concentration of PM10 was 683 micrograms per cubic metres and PM2.5 concentration was 495 micrograms per cubic metres. Both PM10 and PM2.5 concentrations have been at least five times higher than the national safe standard since Monday. The city’s minimum temp was 10.7 degrees Celsius, 3 degrees below normal, and moderate fog visibility was 300 metres.Most cities and towns in the national capital region (NCR), such as Baghpat, Bhiwani, Bhiwadi, Bulandshahr, Ghaziabad, Gurugram and Noida recorded AQI readings in the higher end of the “severe” category on Tuesday morning.There is no likelihood of improvement immediately, scientists said. “We are not expecting any significant improvement in air quality in the next few days. Wind direction is likely to shift from northwesterly to easterly today [Tuesday], but during such transition in wind direction winds are usually calm. There may be a marginal improvement in air quality on November 12 or 13,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.A combination of an extremely high number of stubble fires in Punjab, low to calm winds in the region and subsidence of air has led to Delhi recording “severe” air quality since November 5.Also Read: Emergency in the air: NGT extends cracker ban, curbs“There is anti-cyclonic wind circulation in the lower levels and subsidence of air in large parts of northwest India presently. Both are linked to slow winds and accumulation of pollutants. We have been seeing a very large number of crop stubble fires. The combination of these factors is leading to the air quality index (AQI) reading hovering between ‘very poor’ and ‘severe’ categories for the past five days,” explained RK Jenamani, senior scientist, national weather forecasting centre.There were over 5,000 stubble fires recorded in Punjab on Monday, according to the ministry of earth sciences. Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary, Bharatiya Kisan Union, had said on Sunday that stubble fires will persist over Punjab for at least one more week until the harvesting of paddy is complete. “Fires will continue for a week or so. All the late varieties of paddy are being harvested now. Many parts of the state faced labour shortage this year. The farm labour belongs to Bihar and UP who had travelled back home during lockdown,” he had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-air-severely-polluted-for-sixth-consecutive-day/story-vRfl7CGHyS5HaoUiqKxyfP.html
10-11-2020||Kolkata||Kolkata Police files case against activist for spreading misinformation||A case was filed against activist Madhu Purnima Kishwar on Monday for tweeting the video of an Islamic rally in Bangladesh, claiming that it was held in Kolkata, police said. A senior officer of the Kolkata Police said that the song in the video clearly refers to Bangladesh. “In fact, we can see several flags of Bangladesh in the video,” he said. “But, the person who shared the video on social media said it to be Kolkata. This is absolutely incorrect and misleading, posing a threat to the law and order here,” he added. Based on the FIR lodged against Kishwar, the Kolkata Police’s Information Technology (IT) unit has started a probe into the matter, the officer said. Marking Kishwar’s tweet as fake, the city police said on social media: “#FakeNewsAlert A video clip from Bangladesh is being falsely claimed to be from Kolkata. Legal action initiated.” Kishwar, who has a verified Twitter handle with over 20 lakh followers, then deleted the clip and apologised, stating that the video was sent to her by “an otherwise reliable friend”. “Dear @KolkataPolice, I have never knowingly indulged in spreading fake news. I deleted it the moment a friend called & alerted me. This video was sent to me by an otherwise reliable friend. My sincere apologies for having forwarded it, mistaking procession in Dacca for Kolkata,” she tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/kolkata-police-files-case-against-activist-for-spreading-misinformation/story-zbF5MnpuWBjfe4ZEnWdnWM.html
10-11-2020||City||Illegal encroachments: LIT razes over 50 shanties in Model Town extension||Taking action against illegal encroachments in Model Town Extension Part-1, the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) razed over 50 shanties amid heavy police deployment on Monday.The LIT had earlier carried out an anti-encroachment drive here in the month of July, stating that around 1.25 acres is under encroachment. However, a few residents sought more time to vacate the land themselves. But as they failed to vacate around 1,800 yards, the LIT was forced to carry out another demolition drive. LIT chairman Raman Balasubramaniam was present at the spot to oversee the operations, as last time, a few encroachers had created ruckus during the drive. When contacted, Balasubramaniam said, “No encroachments will be allowed on LIT’s land. Drives against encroachers will continue in the coming days too. The state government had earlier announced a one-time settlement (OTS) policy, giving residents a chance to submit their pending dues for plot allotment. LIT will be taking possession of the properties of those who failed to clear their dues.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/illegal-encroachments-lit-razes-over-50-shanties-in-model-town-extension/story-XnqxWHard176TkSKEIAgGN.html
10-11-2020||City||Ludhiana: Farmers union forces two more Reliance stores to shut||A day after farmers protesting against the new farm laws forced at least six outlets of Reliance and Adani Group to close, two Reliance Fresh outlets at Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar and Dugri Phase-1 were also forced to bring their shutters down.The Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU, Ekta) Ugrahan, which is spearheading the agitation, deputed its members outside the two stores to ensure that the employees do not resume operations.The farmers union also staged a sit-in outside a mall on Ludhiana-Ferozepur road on Monday.BKU-Ekta district president Gurpreet Singh Noorpur said that they will not let any outlets of Reliance or Adani Group to conduct business until the government revokes the new farm laws, which according to the farmers are against their interests.Noorpur said that they registered their protest peacefully and requested the customers to leave before they got the employees to close the store. He further added that there was no resistance from the store employees. About the sit-in outside the mall, the BKU Ekta chief said that at least 200 members participated in it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-farmers-union-forces-two-more-reliance-stores-to-shut/story-DftmstqF1uomtsDrC6qYAM.html
10-11-2020||City||Ludhiana smart city project: Of 47 proposed projects, only 7 have been completed in 4 years||Though 47 projects to the tune of ₹1,133 crore have been proposed under the Ludhiana smart city project, only seven projects, costing about ₹18 crore, have completed in the last four years. This was revealed during Ludhiana Member of Parliament Ravneet Singh Bittu’s meeting with MC officials on Monday. The meeting was conducted to review the progress of the smart city mission, ahead of the 2022 Vidhan Sabha elections. Ludhiana mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, senior deputy mayor Sham Sunder Malhotra, deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, MC commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal and others were present in the meeting.Bittu asked the officials to expedite the major projects, including the Pakhowal ROB/RUB, carcass plant, construction and demolition waste plant, legacy waste treatment, upgrade of sports infrastructure, construction of multi-storey parking in Feroze Gandhi Market, and complete these by next year.Several projects, including the construction of C&D waste plant, carcass plant and upgrade of firefighting equipments, have been hanging fire for a long time.2 years on, LED lights project hangs fire The LED streetlight project, wherein the existing streetlights are to be replaced with LED lights, has not been completed so far even as an eight-month deadline was given during its inauguration in November 2018.LSCL director Sanjay Goel said that the authorities have “lost focus” on the city’s chronic problems, including traffic and parking woes. Projects completed so farThe projects that have been completed so far include the rejuvenation of Clock Tower, installation of rooftop solar panels in government buildings, installation of signages and purchasing poclain machines for cleaning Buddha Nullah and others. Bittu said that the Centre has not released over ₹100 crore of grant, stating that due to this, the state government has also been unable to release the matching grant.Speaking to the media, Bittu said, “Officials have been directed to expedite the projects. I have taken up the matter with the finance ministry. They have assured to release ₹50 crore in a few days. Authorities have been directed to complete the major projects by next year. They have also been warned of action if the projects are further delayed.”Install plastic-recycling vending machinesBittu also directed authorities to expedite the project to install plastic-recycling vending machines and sanitary-napkin vending machines in different parts of the city. “These are not among the major projects and can be completed in a short time period. I have directed the authorities to install the machines in different parts of the city and rope in corporate houses, wherever possible,” the MP said. 200 cusecs of water to be released in Buddha Nullah from MarchBittu said that the state government is working to rejuvenate the Buddha Nullah at the cost of ₹650 crore, and 200 cusecs of fresh water will be released from the Sirhind canal daily, from March, to bring down the pollution levels. The grant for this project is also pending.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-smart-city-project-of-47-proposed-projects-only-7-have-been-completed-in-4-years/story-nPuv4RjU8A3UftoVa529TK.html
10-11-2020||City||Ludhiana: Two more lose battle to Covid-19 in district||Two more patients succumbed to Covid-19 while 93 others tested positive for the virus in Ludhiana on Monday, taking the total count of positive cases to 20, 891. The deceased include a 46-year-old male from Jagraon and a 40-year-old female from Focal Point.At least five of the new patients caught the virus after coming in contact with a positive patient, 31 were showing symptoms of influenza-like illnesses while 41 were referred from the outpatient departments of city hospitals. The new infections also include five cops and a healthcare worker. So far, 19, 441 patients have recovered from the virus, while 849 succumbed to the contagion. Ludhiana deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said there are 598 active patients in the district at present. He said that a total of 12 patients from other districts and states have also tested positive here in the last 24 hours.Sharma said that the test results of 1, 902 suspected patients are still pending.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-two-more-lose-battle-to-covid-19-in-district/story-NcVowSqEIwxpq5WcMayKrN.html
10-11-2020||Mumbai||59% dip in Covid-19 patients in home quarantine in 8 days: Maharashtra government data||With the gradual flattening of the Covid-19 curve in Maharashtra, the number of patients in home quarantine has decreased by around 58.6% in the past eight days. However, health officials have said that Covid-19 cases may increase post-Diwali festivities.On November 1, as many as 2,544,799 people were quarantined at homes, which on Sunday decreased to 1,051,321. On Sunday alone, 8,232 patients under home quarantine had recovered from the virus. For the past two weeks, Maharashtra has been reporting an average of 7,000 daily cases despite conducting nearly 70,000 tests. The recovery rate among mildly symptomatic patients has also increased drastically. “The overall active cases have come down across the state, especially at the hot spots. For instance, both Pune and Mumbai, which were the major contributors in the cumulative Covid-19 cases, the total number of active patients have come down to around 17,000 in each of the cities,” said Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer.As per the state health department data, districts such as Kolhapur (323), Dhule (317), Washim (107) and Nandurbar (429) have the lowest number of active Covid-19 cases.Meanwhile, the number of patients who are in institutional quarantine has also decreased by 35% from 12,230 on November 1 to 7,912 on November 8.“Despite the relaxation in the lockdown norms, we have been able to keep the infection rate under control. But the next 15 days will be crucial for us as the infection rate might surge. So, citizens need to be more careful and follow all the safety measures,” said Dr Archana Patil, director of state health service.However, health activists are sceptical about the numbers. They claim that as the state government is gradually relaxing the lockdown, it is trying to show less number of active Covid-19 cases. “The home quarantine patients aren’t tested before being declared ‘recovered’. In the race to open up trains and offices, the health department can miss out on patients who haven’t recovered. So, they need to be more careful,” said health activist Dr Abhijit More.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/59-dip-in-covid-19-patients-in-home-quarantine-in-8-days-maharashtra-government-data/story-AcDEQuK0gpSLasK3zueNjL.html
10-11-2020||City||GMADA owes Mohali civic body ₹5-crore property tax||Mohali municipal commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg has shot off a letter to the chief administrator of Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA), seeking the payment of ₹5.13 crore that it owes to the civic body for property tax at the earliest. GMADA has not paid the tax ever since it was introduced in 2014-15. The development authority has to pay for its godown in Phase 11, Dussehra Ground, old bus stand and Tibetan market space in Phase 8, old deputy commissioner office, hockey stadium in Phase 9, all sports complexes, places of liquor vends, and various booths in different phases and sectors. Municipal chief Garg said, “We have written a letter to the head of GMADA and asked them to pay the property tax. Hopefully, the matter will soon be sorted out.”A senior GMADA official said that they have sought from the municipal corporation details of the properties, along with the amount. “We will soon clear the dues,” he added. Major defaultersThe district administrative complex in Sector 76 is currently defaulting on property tax to the tune of ₹15 lakh pending for the past two years. Mohali police also owe ₹1 crore to the civic body since 2014-15. Their properties include several police stations, cybercrime office, women cell and other buildings. Even the excise and taxation department hasn’t paid its ₹5-lakh property tax.As per the record, Mohali has 52,678 properties — 41,082 residential, 4,929 commercial, 1,683 industrial and 4,984 vacant plots — of which 24,406 are taxable.Three industrial units sealedThe MC on Monday sealed three industrial units in Mohali’s Phase-7 industrial area after their owners failed to pay pending house/property tax. Officials said they owed ₹8 lakh as tax to the MC. The sealed units are plot number D-92, D-99 and C-148. These units were non-functional. MC inspector Avtar Singh Kalsia said, “The drive was launched following the directions of the municipal commissioner. We sealed the sites as their owners failed to deposit the tax despite notices and reminders.” The civic body had issued notices to tax defaulters under sections 137 and 138 of the Punjab Municipal Corporation Act and given them a 10-day window to clear the dues. The civic body is now in the process of identifying property tax defaulters to whom notices will be sent and strict action will follow in case of default.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gmada-owes-mohali-civic-body-5-crore-property-tax/story-dUtZhParNZ7AOSJmsgt3HL.html
10-11-2020||City||3,277 new cases take Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally to 1,723,135||Maharashtra reported 3,277 Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the state’s tally to 1,723,135. Owing to technical glitches on the Centre’s Covid-19 portal, data related to fatalities and fresh recoveries could not be added on Monday, said state health department officials. “Daily discharged cases and deaths of the state are updated as per the central government’s covid portal (https://covid19.nhp.gov.in) but due to technical reasons, the Covid portal was not functioning. Therefore, the daily figures of discharged cases and deaths are not available,” the state health department’s bulletin stated. “As today the Covid-19 portal is not functional and patients are admitted in more than 1,500 hospitals in the state, it is difficult to compile information of discharged and death cases manually,” it added. The state, however, added 85 fatalities, including 20 deaths from Mumbai in the previous 24 hours and 65 from the reconciliation data, taking the toll to 45,325. Meanwhile, Mumbai reported 599 fresh cases on Monday, pushing its tally to 265,144. The city’s fatalities surged to 10,465 after 20 deaths were recorded on Monday. Meanwhile, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) collectively recorded 495 fresh cases. Pune district witnessed a decline in daily cases and reported 165 infections on Monday, while Pune rural and Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 177 and 68 fresh cases, respectively. Nagpur city reported 233 new cases on Monday, even as Satara district, Solapur rural and other cities and districts reported cases in double digits on Monday. Until Monday, Maharashtra had tested 9,482,940 samples and the state’s positivity rate stands at 18.17%. In the past 24 hours, the state tested 42,405 samples, of which 3,277 (7.72%) were found positive for the virus. The infection rate in the state has seen decline over the past few weeks. In the first eight days of November, the positivity rate in the state has consistently remained under 10%. So far, the state’s positivity rate for November has averaged at 8.35%, which means for every 100 samples tested, eight were found to be positive. The ratio was around 15% in October and 24% in September. In November, the state has on an average tested 59,141 samples of which 4,889 were found positive, according to the state health department data. However, there are concerns that the declining Covid-19 curve could see a reversal after Diwali (November 14). Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in his address to the state on Sunday said that the fortnight after Diwali will be crucial and the “real test”. He also warned citizens not to lower their guard, as the second wave could prove to be a ‘tsunami’. The CM has appealed to citizens to follow the basic Covid-19 protocol – social distancing, wearing masks and washing hands – to keep the spread of the virus at bay. Thackeray said that lax behaviour during the festive season and the onset of winter could reverse the declining Covid-19 curve. Health department officials said that they have directed the district administration to increase surveillance. Officials said that the ratio of tracing immediate contacts of positive patients is not as per expectations. “People will have to maintain Covid-appropriate behaviour while moving out. Wearing masks, maintaining sanitisation and physical distancing are the only solution. Besides that, the department has asked for stricter surveillance and tracing-tracking. There is a sense of fatigue among healthcare workers involved in the Covid-19 fight. We have to trace 15 people at least on finding one positive case,” said an official from the health department. Public health expert Dr Sanjay Pattiwar echoed that tracing and surveillance will remain crucial to keep the potential second wave of Covid-19 at bay. “People are roaming around as if the pandemic is gone, but the threat still exists. If there is fatigue among healthcare workers, then there should be a reserve force like in armies. The state should rope in teaching staffs and clerks for surveillance, which is non-technical. Besides that the state must also ramp up testing,” Pattiwar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-277-new-cases-take-maharashtra-s-covid-19-tally-to-1-723-135/story-4sfD91Qg3mBD3kYME7u1rN.html
10-11-2020||City||Mumbai civic body allows firecrackers only on Diwali day: Traders upset, activists welcome it||After the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Monday prohibited citizens from bursting firecrackers at public and private places, the Mumbai and Thane districts’ Fireworks Dealers’ Welfare Association has said that the decision would lead to excess inventory and close to 60% interest loss. The ban has been exempted for the main day of Diwali which falls on November 14 (Saturday), when Mumbaiites can burst two variants (sparklers and flower pots) of firecrackers.“Every day we are getting fresh guidelines. This is not how a business can function. It is wrong to take such decisions so close to the festival date,” said Minesh Mehta, secretary of the association, adding, “Considering the Maharashtra government has already urged citizens to celebrate a safe Diwali and reduce the use of firecrackers, there was no need for BMC to implement a separate decision to ban them.”Raju Ghone, a dealer from Kurla, said that the customers who had already purchased firecrackers’ from his shops at south and central Mumbai prior to the BMC’s decision are now coming back to return the fireworks. “There is absolute chaos and confusion in Mumbai after the decision. We are already running on 80% losses this year, and on top of that, buyers who purchased the crackers are returning them and demanding their money back. We are not sure how we’ll manage,” said Ghone.Mehta added that many dealers pay manufacturers for the fireworks at the end of the festive season. “They won’t be able to that now. We’re anticipating that our warehouses won’t be able to hold excess inventory till next year, even as a 60% interest loss cannot be made up for following this ban. We’re also facing added pressure from the manufacturers at Sivakasi, Tamil Nadu, as many states have banned crackers this year,” he said.A spokesperson from Essabhai Fireworks Pvt Ltd, the largest firecracker dealer in south Mumbai, said, “60% of our stock only has majorly light emitting (low sound and smoke) crackers. Flower pots and sparklers account for less than 10% of our inventory. So far, we had only three days of good sales and this week we were expecting to see the most sales. But now, we are worried after BMC’s decision.”Meanwhile, citizens are divided over the decision.Girgaum resident Abhinav Bandekar said, “For once, we hope this Diwali would be a quiet one, especially after all the issues Mumbai has already faced this year.”However, Lokhandwala resident K Bharadwaj believes that the BMC must have made the decision earlier. “I had already purchased firecrackers worth ₹10,000 for my children. There should have been prior intimation by BMC on such a decision. This is harassment,” he said.Independent experts said restrictive measures – either a complete ban on crackers or limiting timing for bursting them on Diwali night – were needed to reduce episodic pollution and the chemical loading of the environment. “Mumbai has been in the grip of a serious Covid-19 crisis. Therefore, there is a need to take action to deepen public understanding of the risk. But regulatory action on cultural practices is difficult to enforce as we have seen in the past. Regulations can be effective only through strong public awareness and support. Outreach programmes and medical evidences and advisories are critically important to build support for such measures,” said Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment, Delhi.Environmentalists said the use of crackers should not be permitted under any circumstances. “One violator can cause health complications to thousands of residents. The responsibility to strictly implement the time of use (of firecrackers) falls squarely on the government,” said Sumaira Abdulali, convener, Awaaz Foundation, an organisation that carries out firecracker noise testing.Chowdhury said the combined crisis of the Covid-19 pandemic and winter pollution presents a special challenge, and this required emergency response. “Our healthcare systems are already stressed and cannot take additional pressure. Even short-term bursting of crackers can increase toxic exposure for the ailing and the vulnerable,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-civic-body-allows-firecrackers-only-on-diwali-day-traders-upset-activists-welcome-it/story-CjYzXaG5mCXADnKpqK2mKP.html
10-11-2020||Mumbai||National Green Tribunal restricts use of firecrackers for all festivals this year||While directing a ban on firecrackers for the National Capital Region (NCR), the National Green Tribunal (NGT) directed cities and towns in India with ‘moderate’ air quality (or below) to only allow the sale of green crackers and restricted timings to burst them during festivals. The NGT published its November 5 order on Monday that specified that average air quality for each city was to be calculated for November 2019 and then declared whether it was ‘poor’ or ‘moderate’ or otherwise. For NCR and those cities with ‘poor’ (or worse) air quality, the NGT directed a total ban against the sale and use of firecrackers from November 9-10, 2020 to the midnight of November 30-December 1, which would be reviewed thereafter. Mumbai had recorded ‘moderate’ air quality during November 2019, according to SC Kollur, chief scientist, Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB). “As per the NGT guideline, sale of green crackers can be allowed in Mumbai. We have already calculated individual city data based on air quality classification for other cities in Maharashtra, and prepared a draft to be circulated to state and urban local bodies for them to issue enforcement guidelines. The draft will be finalised soon,” said Kollur. The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) categorises AQI levels in the 0-50 range as good; 51-100 as satisfactory; 101-200 as moderate; 201-300 as poor; 301-400 as very poor. Green crackers have 30% lower emissions of toxic gases than traditional ones and they do not contain barium nitrate, a metal oxide that increases both air and noise pollution. “There is enough material indicating nexus between pollution and Covid and that increased pollution will increase Covid impact by reducing immunity rendering citizens susceptible to more diseases which may affect lungs, heart and cause cancer,” the bench headed by NGT chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said. To address the aggravated effect of air pollution during Covid-19, NGT said for cities and towns with ‘moderate’ air quality apart from green crackers, the timings for use and cracker bursting be restricted to two hours during festivals, as may be specified by the state concerned. “If nothing is specified by the state, timing will be 8pm to 10pm on Diwali and Gurupurab, 6am to 8am on Chatt and 11.55 pm to 12.30 am during Christmas and New Year’s Eve. All states may initiate special drives to contain air pollution from all sources in view of potential of aggravation of Covid-19,” read the order. The chief secretaries and director general of police were directed to issue orders with enforcement guidelines, while pollution control boards were asked to monitor air quality status during this period. “The NGT order will be shared with all state departments,” said Sudhir Srivastava, chairman, MPCB. NGT was hearing numerous applications from Delhi, Madhya Pradesh and the tribunal on its own motion, and took cognisance of several states that had already banned the use of firecrackers this Diwali. “Even green crackers only partly reduce pollution. With Covid-19, even reduced pollution becomes hazardous. What may be permitted in normal times, can also not be permitted during Covid-19. That is the reason for the ban by the states which was never considered without Covid,” the bench said. Scientists said state-specific guidelines were needed towards implementation of entrusted work. “It is good that the NGT is monitoring both issues (air pollution and Covid-19) for protection of human health across India. Citizens must understand the gravity of this order, and need to participate in the programme for protection of their neighbour’s health. Our utmost duty should be to maintain the better air quality during bad air days, and for that citizens need to function as a unit,” said Dipankar Saha, former additional director, CPCB. “As far as the NGT order is concerned, although Mumbai’s air is not as polluted as in some other parts of India at present, air quality has consistently been shown to deteriorate immediately after Diwali. Thus there was a need to ban crackers overall for major cities like Mumbai too,” said Sumaira Abdulali, convener, Awaaz Foundation. What does this NGT order mean for Mumbai?The National Green Tribunal (NGT) directed cities and towns in India, such as Mumbai that had ‘moderate’ air quality (or below) in 2019, to only allow the sale of green crackers and restricted timings for the use of such crackers during major festivals like Diwali, Gurpurab, Chatt, Christmas and New Year’s eve. While the Maharashtra government through urban local bodies among other states were asked to draft their own time frame for cracker bursting and guidelines, in case if nothing was specified by the state, the timing to burst crackers will be 8 to 10pm on Diwali and Gurupurab, 6am to 8am on Chatt and 11.55pm to 12.30am during Christmas and New year eve. For Diwali however, BMC has already banned bursting of firecrackers in public and private places in Mumbai except on Saturday, November 14 (Diwali Day), when only two variants of firecrackers (sparklers and flower pots) can be used.What are Green crackers?Green crackers have 30% lower emissions of toxic gases than traditional ones and they do not contain barium nitrate, a metal oxide that increases both air and noise pollution. On October 5, 2019, the Centre announced the use of these eco-friendly crackers across India, developed by the National Environment Engineering Research Institute (NEERI), based on a 2018 Supreme Court (SC) order, banning the manufacture of polluting firecrackers. NEERI developed different variants of two types of crackers – flower pots and sparklers – with new formulations for their chemical components. These crackers were made with reduction in size of shell, elimination of ash usage, and reduced usage of raw materials in their composition, of uniform acceptable quality, use of additives as dust suppressants with specific reference to particulate matter, sulphur dioxide and nitrogen dioxide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/national-green-tribunal-restricts-use-of-firecrackers-for-all-festivals-this-year/story-ZwwZA5YnJyvDavXYqyF2eL.html
10-11-2020||Chandigarh||UT creates database of 10,000 health workers on Covid vaccine priority list||The Chandigarh health department has prepared a database of about 10,000 medical professionals working in around 45 facilities in the city, who will be given the Covid-19 vaccine on priority, senior officials said on Monday. The exercise has been conducted in response to the health ministry’s communication to the states and UTs to prepare a database of healthcare workers working in public as well as private sector, who can be given Covid-19 vaccine precedence. The health ministry in the communication in mid-October had told UTs and states that since numerous efforts were underway to develop multiple Covid-19 vaccines, the ministry had started the preparatory activities so that it can be expeditiously rolled out once available.Officials said that among those on priority are frontline workers, including auxiliary nurse midwives, multi-purpose workers, accredited social health activists and their supervisors, nurses, medical officers, and both allopathic (MBBS and/or postgraduates, teaching and non-teaching and doctors on administrative posts) and Ayush doctors at Ayush dispensaries as well as other public health centres and hospitals. Officials said that the list of workers with UT health department in Government Multi Speciality Hospital at Sector 16 and associated hospitals in sectors 45, 22 and Manimajra, and Government Medical College and Hospital at Sector 32 has been communicated to the ministry. The private doctors associated with the city’s Indian Medical Association have also been enlisted on priority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ut-creates-database-of-10-000-health-workers-on-covid-vaccine-priority-list/story-pwiKD9sRuTM9NT5B1VreyL.html
10-11-2020||Chandigarh||J&K logs 9 deaths, tolls climbs to 1,542||Jammu and Kashmir on Monday recorded nine deaths and 460 fresh coronavirus infections, taking the total Covid count to 99,352 and death toll to 1,542.Officials said 307 people tested positive in Kashmir and 153 in Jammu. One person succumbed to the disease in Jammu and eight in Kashmir. A total of 1,023 people have succumbed to the disease in Kashmir and 519 in Jammu.So far, 64 persons have lost their lives to the infection this month.As many as 326 people succumbed to the infection in August, 478 in September and 293 in October. The death toll crossed 500-mark on August 13, 1000-mark on September 20 and 1500-mark on November 03.The recovery rate has also been improving for the past month. So far, 92,245 people have recovered from the disease in the UT and the recovery rate has reached 92.84%. Now, there are 5,565 active cases in J&K.An average 507 daily infections have been reported this month so far against an average of 632 daily cases in October and 1,245 cases in September. An average 10 deaths a day were reported in October against 16 in September.The total number of tests conducted in the UT has crossed 25.05 lakh.In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 161 more people tested positive, followed by Baramulla at 33 cases.In Jammu division, the highest number of cases was recorded in Jammu district at 99,followed by 19 in Udhampur.Srinagar tops the case tally with 20,574 cases and 381 deaths followed by Jammu with 18,469 cases and 270 deaths.Till date, 6.68 lakh people have been enlisted for observation – 15,627 in home quarantine, 5,565 in isolation, and 42,711 under home surveillance. Besides, 6.03 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/j-k-logs-9-deaths-tolls-climbs-to-1-542/story-Bg2cBxy2h2BNSwhSp1fYHI.html
10-11-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal records highest single-day spike of 711 cases||Himachal’s Covid tally crossed the 26,000- mark on Monday with a record 711 people testing positive for the virus. The state’s tally has reached 26,197. This is the highest single-day spike. Himachal had recorded 573 and 674 cases on Saturday and Sunday, respectively. The state’s death toll mounted to 378 with seven patients succumbing to the contagion. The state’s death toll mounted to 378 with seven patients succumbing to the contagion. Of the new cases, 204 were reported in Shimla, 121 in Kullu, 114 in Mandi, 61 in Hamirpur, 50 in Kangra, 41 in Solan, 29 in Bilaspur, 22 each in Chamba, Lahaul-Spiti and Una, 13 in Sirmaur, and 12 in Kinnaur. Active cases have jumped to 5,192 in the state and a total of 4,35,604 tests have been conducted. Mandi which has seen an exponential rise in the number of infections in last week is now the worst-hit district with 3,990 cases. It is followed by Solan (3,886), Shimla (3,459), Kangra (3,450), Sirmaur (2,363), Kullu (2,030), Una (1,668), Bilaspur (1,498), Hamirpur (1,458), Chamba (1,370), Kinnaur (513) and Lahaul-Spiti (512).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-records-highest-single-day-spike-of-711-cases/story-LhUW2Bl6lGpNuG3q4dESXL.html
10-11-2020||Chandigarh||Operation in J&K’s Machil still on, says BSF||A day after four security force personnel and three militants were killed in a face off in Machil sector of Kupwara in north Kashmir, a top official of the Border Security Force (BSF) said security forces were still combing through the sector to rule out the presence of other infiltrators in the area. BSF constable Sudip Sarkar of the 169 Battalion, Captain Ashutosh Kumar, Havaldar Praveen Kumar and rifle man Ryada Maheshwar of the 18 Madras Regiment were killed in action while foiling an infiltration bid in the Valley. BSF additional director general of Surinder Pawar, who was speaking at the sidelines of a wreath laying ceremony for constable Sarkar at Humhama, said a sanitisation operation was on in the sector as the security forces were concerned about the presence of other infiltrators in the tough terrain. The BSF had observed the movement of a group of militants attempting to enter the country through the Line of Control in Machil Sector around 1am on November 8.“We received inputs about 15 days ago that militants will try to infiltrate. So our ambush-cum-patrolling party patrolled the area during the night. Around 1 am (on Sunday), the patrolling party observed some suspicious movement and challenged the militants. The militants retaliated and Constable Sarkar was badly injured. But he fought bravely and killed a militant, before succumbing to the injuries,” Pawar said. “The men had seen three shadows and since it was dark and the ground was riddled with ditches, the other two managed to escape. The Army and other BSF posts were alerted and firing continued till 4.30 am.”“With the first light on Sunday, the Army and the BSF launched a joint operation, in which the two militants were killed. In the exchange of fire, Army Captain Ashutosh Kumar and two soldiers were also killed,” he said.Pawar said fewer militants had been able to infiltrate the country this year as compared to previous years:“As per intelligence reports, 250-300 militants are waiting on launch pads. This year around 25 militants were able to infiltrate the country as compared to 135 to 140 last year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/operation-in-j-k-s-machil-still-on-says-bsf/story-LRcOSnTGIZb60tRky56aaM.html
10-11-2020||Delhi||Weekend record in Delhi: 5,000 plus new cases||The Capital reported 5,023 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Monday, fewer than 6,500 cases for the first time in six days. However, this drop comes after fewer people were tested for the infection on Sunday, when only 39,115 tests were conducted, as compared to an average 56,298 tests conducted each day during the week. To add to concerns, despite the drop in testing, the test positivity rate remained above 12%.Monday’s tally was the highest number of cases reported after a weekend, which usually see a drop in testing, and cases. Delhi also reported 71 deaths due to the infection in Monday’s health bulletin, tipping the total toll of the pandemic in the city over 7,000. So far, 7,060 people have died of the infection in the city since the first case in the city was reported on March 2 and the first death on March 13. The case fatality ratio (CFR) – proportion of deaths among those who test positive for the infection – has been on the decline despite the recent increase in the number of deaths. Over 65 persons died of the infection each day on an average this week as compared to 42 people the week before, and 39 people the week before. The average CFR has gone down from 1.81% to 1.59% during the three-week period. “We are reporting more cases and hence there has been an increase in the number of deaths. However, if you look at the death rate it has come down to 1.59%, which is similar to the national average. Earlier it used to be 1% higher than national average. In fact, the ten-day death rate is 0.95% and even the WHO says that less than 1% deaths is good,” said Jain. What is concerning is that despite the drop in the absolute number of cases, the positivity rate -- the number of samples that return positive among the total tested — remained high. Positivity rate is and depicts the rate of transmission of the infection in a region. Delhi’s average positivity rate remained at 12.6% this week, up from 10.3% the week before, and 7.18% the week before that – showing the increase in transmission. “This means that more and more people are getting infected and that the transmission of the infection is on in Delhi. Chances are more infections would be reported in the coming days with a huge chunk of population still susceptible to the novel disease. The positivity rate too is likely to keep on increasing if the government focuses on targeted testing of contacts and those most at risk of getting the infection,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology and infectious diseases at Indian Council of Medical Research. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Monday said that at least 20 to 30% of the total tests conducted were done in a targeted manner at market places, crowded areas, ISBTs, and railway stations. “To reduce the numbers, the interaction of the people needs to be reduced. The government does not want to impose another lockdown for economic reasons, but there needs to be certain curbs like the number of people allowed at wedding and funerals could be cut down, the timings for bars and restaurants can be reduced,” said Dr Kant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/weekend-record-in-delhi-5-000-plus-new-cases/story-EMSKRk2PKrrQLY32Mz27fI.html
10-11-2020||Chandigarh||Former senators, syndicate members protest at Panjab University||Former senators and the members of Panjab University syndicate on Monday held a protest on the campus, demanding that senate elections be held immediately.Dozens of members marched inside the varsity campus, raising slogans against vice-chancellor Raj Kumar and later sat on a dharna outside his office, where they were joined by various student leaders.This comes after the senate polls of PU were postponed by the V-C for the second time on October 15. The polls were scheduled to be held on August 24.Syndicate member Harpreet Singh Dua said, “The indefinite postponement of senate polls is unjustified and a betrayal with the state of Punjab.”The term of the PU senate has ended on October 31 and the varsity is without its supreme governing body. However, the term of syndicate which is PU’s top executive body will end on December 31.Former senator Ronki Ram said, “There is no governing body in place right now. We held a peaceful protest as to why the elections are not being held.”While addressing the protesting members, V-C Raj Kumar said that senate polls are different and should not be compared with other elections. “The employees have also written to us that they are not willing to perform the election duty,” he added. Demand for syndicate meetingAfter the protest, former senators and syndicate members met V-C Raj Kumar and demanded an immediate syndicate meeting. The last syndicate meeting of PU was held in July. They also asked the V-C to write to the UT administration, seeking permission for conducting polls at the university.“Various issues are pending and the governance is at standstill. The V-C assured us that he will call a syndicate meeting immediately,” said syndicate member Navdeep Goyal.Meanwhile, the Joint Student Action Committee (JSAC), which is the amalgam of various student organisations of PU, also held a protest at the UT secretariat. The students also met UT adviser Manoj Parida.“The UT administration has nothing to do with holding or not holding the senate elections by PU. It is their policy decision and they have to take it. But the Covid-19 grounds on which we had asked them to stop no more exists, so they can take a call on any way they feel like,” Parida said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/former-senators-syndicate-members-protest-at-panjab-university/story-XviCIzII5lzMw9WVpt8URN.html
10-11-2020||City||New commission meets for first time, advises minimal use of personal vehicles||New Delhi: The newly formed Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas urged people to minimise use of personal vehicles as much as possible immediately, even as pollution levels in the region continued to touch toxic levels.Responding to the air quality crisis in Delhi-NCR, the commission headed by former Delhi chief secretary MM Kutty held its first meeting on Monday, where it urged people to take 10 immediate measures, including minimising personal travel, restricting travel unless absolutely essential, and encouraging working-from-home. The panel also urged that rules regarding dust control measures be enforced strictly, apart from ensuring municipal solid waste and biomass are not burnt.These apart, the commission, the six members of which were constituted last week, advised that water sprinkling be intensified, particularly in dust prone areas, anti-smog guns be used at pollution hotspots especially at construction sites, court orders on stubble burning and use of fire crackers be adhered to. It also sought co-operation from civil society and citizens to report air pollution incidents on the Sameer App and encouraged industries in NCR to minimise the use of coal in the coming months.The commission, formed last month, will be a statutory authority that replaces the 22-year-old Supreme Court-mandated Environment Pollution Control Authority (Epca). The four full-time and 2 NGO members, selected by a panel of Union cabinet ministers last week, reviewed the air quality scenario in the region, actions taken by various agencies so far and further steps to be taken for improving the air quality. The Commission noted that future action will necessitate consultation with various stakeholders, stressing the need to strictly enforce existing laws, rules, guidelines, directions and standard operating procedures to minimize air pollution on an emergency basis.It is, however, unclear if measures under the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) will be implemented. Under the plan, if similar air quality persists in Delhi for another day, the Centre will have to impose a number of stringent measures such as stopping all construction activities, introducing the Odd-Even road space-rationing scheme, and stopping the entry of trucks into the city completely. These “severe+” or emergency measures are implemented when ambient PM2.5 or PM10 concentration values of 300 micrograms per cubic metres or 500 micrograms per cubic metres respectively persist for 48 hours or more.According to the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) Grap monitor, Delhi has been heading towards “severe +” since 8pm on Sunday in terms of both PM2.5 and PM10 concentrations. “I am not sure about the Grap measures. The task force of CPCB and IMD [India Meteorological Department] members used to meet and brief Epca on the measures to be taken. Now that’s not happening so I am not sure if severe + interventions will be implemented. The Commission may take it up,” said a senior CPCB official who asked not to be named. RP Gupta, secretary, Union environment ministry had earlier said told the media Grap will be implemented as Epca did earlier.Commission members didn’t respond to HT’s calls requesting clarification on the implementation of the action plan on Monday.“Even as questions around the jurisdiction and composition of the Commission remain, it will be important that some of these are addressed in its working, including the methodology of public engagement that is adopted. The commission and its three sub-committees can push for more public spirited and inclusive mechanisms on how various matters related to air pollution are addressed. Air pollution is an evocative public issue, and it would be important not to only address it through closed door meetings and negotiations,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher, Centre for Policy Research.The Centre issued an ordinance on October 29 to set up the new centralised agency with sweeping powers to monitor and act against sources of air pollution across five north Indian states. The ordinance was issued days after Solicitor General Tushar Mehta told the Supreme Court that the Centre will “do everything on a war footing to curb air pollution”. The Centre had earlier sought time from the top court to create a permanent mechanism to tackle the problem.The Commission replaces all ad-hoc committees and bodies created as per court orders, including Epca, which was formed in 1998 to oversee measures to check air pollution in NCR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/new-commission-meets-for-first-time-advises-minimal-use-of-personal-vehicles/story-9olWc2podpDpOYe10bc2zJ.html
10-11-2020||Noida||Noida: Body of motorcycle showroom owner missing for three weeks found||Noida: The body of a motorcycle showroom’s owner who had been missing since October 17 was found in a decomposed state in Sector 88 on Monday, the police said. The deceased was identified as Ankit Kumar, who had gone missing after he had left home in Yakubpur village to go to his showroom in Greater Noida. Ankit’s family had filed a missing person’s complaint at Phase 2 police station on October 19, the police said, adding that his body was found near Pushta road in Sector 88.“The body was in a very bad state. It was completely decomposed and the autopsy report came back inconclusive. Forensic experts are working on it and we are trying to identify if there is any foul play in the case,” said Anita Chauhan, station house officer, Phase 2 police station.Chauhan said that it seemed as if he had been there for the past few days and the family was only able to recognise him through the clothes. So, a DNA sample has also been taken to confirm the identity, she said.The man’s motorcycle had also been recovered from that area a few days back.Police officials said the family has mentioned that he was upset over the past few days because of a failed relationship with a woman of a different caste whose family refused marriage.“We are looking at all angles. Maybe he was harmed or was a victim of an accident. It could also be a case of suicide. But it is unclear at the moment and a probe in the matter is underway,” said the SHO.She said that a case will be registered as soon as the family files a complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-body-of-motorcycle-showroom-owner-missing-for-three-weeks-found/story-bXfvYDxslUxndNOrbfdOiM.html
10-11-2020||Delhi||As Delhi’s air turns severe, uptick in patients with breathing ailments||Doctors in the city said they have seen a significant increase in the number of patients complaining of respiratory illnesses over the past five days, when pollution has been in the “severe” zone, highlighting the dangerous impact of Delhi’s toxic air.They also cautioned that while even healthy individuals were more to illness due to the existing pollution levels, senior citizens were particularly susceptible to serious medical complications. “We have seen an increase of 15 to 20% in the number of people coming in with respiratory tract infections and aggravation of existing asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) in the last four to five days. People are also coming in with complaints of itchy eyes, throat irritation, and headaches,” said Dr Nevin Kishore, head of bronchology and respiratory medicine, Max healthcare.Doctors also warn that exposure to such high levels of pollution can lead to infections and allergic ailments even in healthy individuals, adding that they see such an increase in influx of patients reporting such illnesses every year in the Capital around this time.“Pollution is known to down-regulate immunity even in healthy individuals, leading to more upper respiratory tract infections and viral infections during this time. And, this year, pollution will increase the risk of Covid-19. There is enough evidence to show that the incidence of heart attacks and strokes goes up when pollution levels are high,” said Dr Srikant Sharma, senior consultant of internal medicine at Moolchand hospital.“Chronic exposure to air with AQI over 100 — which has been the case in Delhi every day except one, since September 9 this year — can lead to healthy people developing lung diseases including lung cancer, endocrine diseases such as diabetes, hypertension, and heart diseases. In children below the age of five, it also leads to lung development being deranged, which can lead to higher probability of lung diseases in the future,” he said.Elderly people are more likely to die of respiratory ailments and cardiovascular diseases when pollution levels go up, health experts said.“In the long run, pollution is more dangerous than smoking and is known to lead to lung cancer. It also increases the risk of heart attack and stroke. We see an increase in the number of these cases in the emergency department,” said Dr Prasun Chaterjee, associate professor of geriatric medicine at the All Indian Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). A study from AIIMS last year showed that at peak levels of pollution -- between October and January -- the emergency sees a 40% increase in patients with respiratory problems. Dr Rajeev Chawla, senior pulmonologist and critical care specialist at the Indraprastha Apollo hospitals, said, “The lung function of any person deteriorates with age. This means the elderly already have a compromised lung function, which when combined with the high levels of pollution means they are more likely to get severe complications.”A 2017 study from the Unites States shows that in people over the age of 65, the all-cause mortality went up by 13.6% for every 10μg increase in the level of PM2.5 in areas where pollution levels were below national air quality standards.What concerns Dr Chaterjee more, however, is the recently established link between increase in the pollution levels and dementia among the old.“Apart from the usual suspects, exposure to high levels of pollution over time increases the risk of people developing dementia later in life. Currently, 0.9 to 1% of the 130 million old people in India are demented, which is likely to increase drastically. Other risk factors for dementia are aging; social isolation, which is very high right now because of Covid-19; lack of physical activity, also happening because of Covid-19 and now the high levels of air pollution,” he said.“Those at high risk — especially patients who have existing asthma, COPD, or fibrosis — should try to limit exposure to air pollution as much as possible. They should remain indoors when the pollution levels are high. And, if they have to step out, they should cover their faces and carry their inhalers with them,” said Dr Kishore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/as-delhi-s-air-turns-severe-uptick-in-patients-with-breathing-ailments/story-kmxTzkPZKGlRuKxnNfTn5O.html
10-11-2020||Noida||Out on shopping, woman and her friend assaulted, harassed by parking staff in Noida Sector 18; two arrested||Noida: A Delhi-based fashion designer has alleged that she and her male friend were assaulted and harassed by staff of the multi-level parking in Sector 18 on Sunday afternoon. The Noida police have arrested two suspects in the case.According to the woman, she was shopping at a jewellery shop in the market with her friend. “When we came out, we realised that the car we had parked nearby had been towed. So we went to basement of the parking lot to retrieve it. We paid the fine, and when we collected the car, I saw that there was a dent on it which wasn’t there earlier,” said the woman.She alleged that when she confronted one of the attendants at the parking, he started shouting at her.“ A couple of his friends also came there and they all started abusing me and making obscene comments. My friend then got out of the car and asked me to get back in while he handled them. However, the attendant’s some more friends came there and they all started hitting my friend,” said the woman.She said in her complaint that two women also came there and they started breaking through her car windows after which they dragged her out and harassed her, slapping her multiple times.“One of the men brought an iron rod and damaged my car’s bonnet. They started filming us all the while making obscene comments and even threatened our lives. Our clothes were torn and while they were focused on me, my friend ran out and called the police helpline. Meanwhile, one of the suspects took the jewellery and Rs 17,500 cash I had in my car. By then there were at least 12-15 people there. However, by the time police reached there, most of the suspects had fled the spot,” the woman said.The woman later filed a complaint with Sector 20 police station, following which a case was registered against the unidentified suspects under IPC sections of harassment, assault, theft and intimidation. According to the police, the victim has also provided the description of at least five of the suspects, including the two women.The police on Sunday evening arrested two of the suspects, who were identified as Shivam Sharma and Shivam Bajpayee. They were sent to jail on Monday.“We are on the lookout for the rest of the suspects. They are members of the staff at the parking, and we have details about a few of them. The CCTV cameras in the area are dysfunctional, but we are gathering more evidence,” said Rakesh Kumar Singh, station house officer, Sector 20 police station.Singh said that both the victims have sustained injuries while the woman’s Baleno car was heavily damaged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/out-on-shopping-woman-and-her-friend-assaulted-harassed-by-parking-staff-in-noida-sector-18-two-arrested/story-nNLJcx1ic6QD386Uke63IP.html
10-11-2020||Noida||Husband, in-laws booked after woman, 4-yr-old son fell to death from 17th floor||Greater Noida: The Bisrakh police on Monday booked five persons murder and dowry death in connection with the death of a 28-year-old woman and her four-year-old son who fell to their death from their 17th floor apartment in Greater Noida west on Saturday. The complaint in the matter has been filed by the woman’s father, who is a resident of Vijay Nagar in Ghaziabad. According to the complainant, his daughter had a man in Sambhal in Uttar Pradesh on April 22, 2015. The woman had shifted to Greater Noida west with her husband and in-laws after the wedding. The four-year-old was the couple’s only child.The complainant alleged that after the wedding, the victim’s husband and in-laws had started demanding ₹10 lakh and a four-wheeler as dowry. “They used to torture my daughter. They also took her to a quack a few months ago and forced her to go for an abortion when they came to know about her pregnancy,” he alleged in the FIR. The woman’s younger brother alleged that her in-laws also beat her up two weeks ago and inflicted severe injuries on her right leg.On Saturday, the complainant alleged that he was told by his son-in-law that the woman and the child had fallen from the bed and were injured. “We reached the Greater Noida west society where they lived and found all family members absconding. We were told that my daughter had jumped with her son from the 17th floor and died. We suspect they were pushed to death,” the complainant alleged.The woman and her son had died due to critical injuries. When a police team reached the spot after the incident, it had found the husband’s 20-year-old sister in the apartment with a burn injury on her face, officers had said.Based on the complaint a case was registered against the woman’s husband, mother-in-law, father-in-law, sister-in-law and brother-in-law under Section 302 (murder), Section 498-A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty), Section 304-B (dowry death), Section 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), Section 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code, and Sections 3 and 4 of the Dowry Prohibition Act 1961.Love Kumar, additional commissioner of police, law and order, said, “A case of dowry death is registered if the death of a woman takes place within seven years of marriage. In this case, the husband’s sister alleged that the deceased woman had poured boiling oil on her face and then she committed suicide with the child, following a quarrel. We have registered a case and are investigating the matter from all angles,” Kumar said.When contacted, the deceased’s husband wept inconsolably. “I have lost my wife and child. My sister is in the hospital. The allegation of dowry harassment is false,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/husband-in-laws-booked-after-woman-4-yr-old-son-fell-to-death-from-17th-floor/story-i7KoSIgE8mYvbekF5SvJmK.html
10-11-2020||Noida||Delhi-Varanasi bullet train will have a stop at Jewar||GREATER NOIDA: The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) said that the proposed bullet train line between Delhi’s Sarai Kale Khan and Varanasi will have a station at Jewar to provide high-speed connectivity to the proposed Noida International Greenfield Airport. The high-speed rail project will run parallel to the 25-km Noida-Greater Noida expressway, 165-km Yamuna Expressway, and 361-km Agra-Lucknow Expressway, among other highways, said officials of Yeida. The average speed of the bullet train will be 320 km per hour and it will take 21 minutes to reach Jewar airport from Delhi, they said.The decision was taken recently after central government officials working on this ambitious project had several round of discussions with the Noida authority and Yeida officials on the alignment of the route. “Teams working on this project have decided that the bullet train should be built on divider (central median) on the expressways because it will be cost effective. If the route is proposed along the expressways, then the government will have to acquire the land increasing the project cost. With route above the expressways, there will not be any requirement of land acquisition,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer, Yeida. According to the officials, the 865-km long route of bullet train will have 10 stations between Delhi and Varanasi. The train capacity will be 750 passengers and the station names are Noida, Jewar Airport, Mathura, Agra, New Etawah, South Kannnauj, Lucknow, Raebareli, Prayagraj, New Bhadohi.With a total of 12 stations, the estimated cost of this project is ₹1.2 1 lakh crore. The National High Speed Rail Corporation Limited (NHSRCL), which will be constructing the project, has started making a detailed project report, the officials said. However, it has not fixed the deadline as to when DPR will be ready and submitted to the ministry of railways. “We have been working on the detailed project report of this project and survey work of the route is also underway. We are working on all the aspects of this project and we will soon submit DPR that will have all details related with stations, cost and others,” said Sushma Gaur, spokesperson of NHSRCL.However, Gaur did not give any deadline for the completion of DPR work.Yeida officials said that the bullet train project will help boost connectivity in and around Jewar airport area. “Commuters from Delhi-NCR will smoothly travel to Jewar airport through bullet train that will have minimum speed of 250 km per hour and maximum 350 km per hour. The operational speed of this bullet train will be 320 km per hour,” said an official from Yeida on condition of anonymity.The Noida International Airport Limited (NIAL), the nodal agency for the proposed Jewar international airport, has already signed an agreement with the Swiss company Zurich International AG that is likely to start construction on the airport project site in June next year. The airport project with a budget of around ₹30,000 crore is projected to be operational by 2023-24. NIAL is happy to have connectivity through bullet train till Jewar airport because it will provide comfort to the passengers. “Having bullet train connectivity from Delhi to Jewar will be a big thing because a passenger who wants to take flight can reach here in 21 minutes from Delhi. It will also help increase passenger traffic at Jewar airport,” said Singh, who is also chief executive officer of NIAL.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/delhi-varanasi-bullet-train-will-have-a-stop-at-jewar/story-bpSqt6kTNBJ6SwR8HPuVwO.html
10-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body bans bursting of firecrackers except on Diwali evening||Bursting of firecrackers stands banned across Mumbai from November 9 to November 30, except on November 14 (Diwali), but that, too, of only two types — “sparklers” and “flowerpots” — in private spaces, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) announced on Monday.The civic body’s order, a safety measure in view of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, said crackers that create noise pollution won’t be allowed on Diwali day (Saturday). However, interestingly, the sale of firecrackers has not been banned in Maharashtra or Mumbai. The BMC has appealed to the public to not use sanitisers when bursting firecrackers, but use water and soap instead, as sanitisers are inflammable owing to the alcohol in them. “Let us celebrate a firecracker-free Diwali this year to save Mumbaiites from a possible second wave of Covid-19. We all can jointly make this possible,” said Iqbal Singh Chahal, commissioner, BMC.The BMC circular has empowered assistant municipal commissioners and local police to take action against those violating its order. The civic body has urged officials concerned to book violators under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and the Disaster Management Act, 2005.Earlier, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had appealed to the public to celebrate a firecracker-free Diwali, as the resultant smoke could create health hazards for Covid-19 patients and those suffering from respiratory ailments.A state cabinet meeting last week had discussed issuing a blanket ban on sale of firecrackers, but no decision was taken then.The BMC has appealed to Mumbaiites to avoid social gatherings during Diwali and have online celebrations instead. The civic body authorities have urged the public to comply with social-distancing norms, while celebrating Diwali.However, those in the business of selling crackers were not happy with this ban. Mohammad Aslam, a wholesaler of fire crackers from south Mumbai, said, “I understand the Covid-19 situation, but this ban could have been done much earlier. We already have stocked up for the festival anticipating sales, and at the last moment we have a ban. It is matter of our employment and hence this decision should have been taken at least three weeks before.”Meanwhile, Sumaira Abdulali, noise-pollution activist and convener, Awaaz Foundation, said, “This year, the stakes are very high due to Covid-19. I am glad that the authorities are concerned and have banned bursting of crackers except on Saturday, but enforcement of this ban is something that I’ll be looking forward to. The BMC has banned bursting, but has not banned selling, and hence in this scenario the enforcement has to be good.”Abdulali added, “I agree that in case of public places there is a complete ban on bursting crackers, but these crackers will now be burst in residential areas, if there is no enforcement. The enforcement of the ban is something that has to be better, considering selling of crackers is not banned.” The decision received a mostly positive response from political parties. Ravi Raja, leader of Opposition in the BMC and Congress corporator, said, “We have seen in Delhi where due to increase in pollution, the number of Covid-19 cases has gone up. Hence, rather than this bursting of crackers being an administrative ban, I suggest it should be a voluntary ban, where citizens should ensure no bursting of crackers this year.”Bhalchandra Shirsat, BJP corporator and BMC’s standing committee member, said, “We support this ban considering this is in favour of the environment and also a measure against spread of Covid-19. Now, when it comes to banning sale of crackers, I think that is something which should not be a concern. We need to understand that selling of crackers is an industry and its manufacturing and selling happens throughout the year. Hence, banning bursting of crackers alone should be helpful.”Rais Shaikh, Samajwadi Party corporator and BMC group leader in the BMC, said, “I support this ban and more people should ensure that this year we celebrate Diwali in a traditional manner. Also, I demand that not only bursting of crackers, but even selling of it should be banned, considering it damages the environment throughout, irrespective of there being Covid-19 or not.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-bans-bursting-of-firecrackers-except-on-diwali-evening/story-jzbva63Xvly8fQwE4HzEVM.html
10-11-2020||Delhi||LSR student had flagged lack of devices, poor internet||Less than two months before she died by suicide, a 19-year-old undergraduate student at Delhi University’s Lady Shri Ram College had said in a digital survey by the college students that she was unable to regularly attend her online classes due to lack of devices and a poor internet connection and that it was affecting her mental and physical health.The student had returned to her hometown in Telangana, following the Covid-19 lockdown in March and had been facing difficulty in pursuing her online classes. On November 3, she died by suicide and left behind a note, saying she did not want to be a burden on her family.Her death has sparked outrage by political leaders, civil society activists, and students who have raised questions over the feasibility of online education. Congress president Rahul Gandhi expressed shock over the suicide. He accused the Central government of destroying countless homes due to the ‘deliberate’ lockdown and demonetisation.“My condolences to the family members of the girl in this very sad moment. The BJP government destroyed countless homes due to the deliberate demonetisation and countrywide lockdown. This is the truth,” Gandhi tweeted.Unnimaya P, general secretary of the LSR students union, said they had submitted the results of the survey, highlighting issued being faced by the students in pursuing studies online. “We also demanded that attendance should not be made compulsory and that allowances should be provided for internet packages to help students from marginalized backgrounds. But there was no response from the administration.” Several departments of the college participated in an online boycott of classes on Monday as a mark of protest and the students’ union has given the call for a boycott on Tuesday as well. Over 700 former students have also issued a statement condemning the incident. The parents of the dead student said that due to financial distress, they were unable to provide her a laptop which affected her studies despite “being a bright student”. In a press conference on Monday, her mother, who works as a tailor from home, said, “She was stressed over the being asked to vacate the college hostel. She was also worried that she would be mocked if she dropped out of the course because people looked up to her as she was the first from their social circle who had made it to a reputed institution.” The family also said that they had mortgaged their house and gold ornaments for Rs 2 lakh for her education and help her fulfil her dreams of becoming an Indian Administrative Services officer and study in Delhi. The college administration had asked all second-year students to vacate the hostel by October-end, which was later extended to November 10. LSR college on Monday said that the student had not approached the college for help and that the hostel guidelines had been specified during the time of admission. The college administration explained that that the hostel policies were changed to accommodate Other Backward Category and Economically Weaker Section category reservation. LSR Principal Suman Sharma said, “The student concerned never approached the college or her department of Mathematics, the scholarship committee for any financial help. Her fee was reimbursed and the college had given freeship amount of Rs 12,000, which was deposited in her account on April 24.” Her mother, however, denied receiving the amount. In a brief suicide note purportedly written by the student in Telugu, which was seen by HT, the girl said her education had become a burden on her family. “I cannot live without my studies. I have been thinking about it for a long time and I felt my death is the only solution to my problem. Nobody is the reason for my death. I should have got INSPIRE scholarship for at least one year,” the note read. The college, meanwhile, said on Monday, that they did not know about the INSPIRE scholarship. “There was no intimation by the student that she was a recipient of INSPIRE scholarship sponsored by the Department of Science and Technology, Government of India. This college, therefore, is not in a position to state anything on this matter. In any case, the role of the college in such cases is limited to certify bonafides only,” it said. Under the INSPIRE scholarship for Higher Education (SHE) scheme, 12,000 scholarships each valued at Rs 80,000 are announced annually for students pursuing undergraduate and postgraduate level courses in Basic and Natural Sciences. Ashutosh Sharma, secretary at the Department of Science and Technology, said there has been absolutely no delay in disbursal of funds for any student. “The process of disbursal of these scholarships includes sending of provisional fellowship letters in August, which were sent, and students have until December to upload documents like bank account number, marksheets, and bonafide certificate. Once the documents are received, the fellowship for entire year is released. The concerned student had not submitted these documents.”Sharma explained that while students apply for fellowship in first year of college, the amount is released next year for both the years together if they satisfy the required criteria of securing 60% marks in the first year and remain enrolled in the college to pursue science.The student’s family now hopes for some financial assistance to ensure that their younger daughter, who had to discontinue her education, would be able to pursue her studies. The college on Monday said it had initiated an assistance scheme to help the family. “We have initiated efforts to assist the family of the deceased student financially with a voluntary contribution by the LSR faculty,” the college said. Meanwhile, students’ groups – including Students’ Federation of India (SFI), National Students’ Union of India (NSUI), and All India Students Association (AISA) – protested at different spots across the capital demanding justice for the dead student. Deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi) Eish Singhal said at least 20 NSUI members staged a protest outside the residence of the Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal. “Seven protesters were detained. A case under section 188 of IPC and Section 3 of Epidemic Diseases Act 1897 and 51(b) of Disaster Management Act 2005 has been registered against the protestors at the Tughlaq Road police station,” he said. DCP (Southeast) RP Meena said, “We have not received any complaint regarding the incident (suicide). There is no investigation being done. Also, the Telangana Police have also not approached us so far in connection with the matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/lsr-student-had-flagged-lack-of-devices-poor-internet/story-8QSCo91ysZLRwRbL8kkpjN.html
10-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi chokes on season’s most polluted air||Delhi breathed season’s worst polluted air on Monday with a heavy layer of pollutants blocking sunlight, causing a thick haze to envelop the city with experts sounding a health emergency for the vulnerable population including the elderly, children and those with comorbidities. The average air quality index in Delhi was recorded at 477 on a scale of 500, the highest since November 3 last year, in the severe zone. This was the fifth consecutive day when Delhi’s air was in the severe category. The last time that Delhi had a such a long spell of polluted air in November was in 2016 and 2017, when the air remained in the severe category for six days.However, by late evening, the AQI deteriorated to 500 at five places -- Mundka, Najafgarh, Rohini, Drawrka Sec 8, Punjabi Bagh, according CPCB’s Sameer app. The overall AQI in the evening stood at 491.Doctors warned that exposure to such high levels of air pollution continuously over days is linked to higher hospital admissions and people reporting with respiratory and cardiovascular complications.Weather scientists and pollution monitoring agencies have warned that an immediate relief was unlikely as meteorological conditions are not ideal for disperal of pollutants and farm fires are raging in the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana. It is, however, unclear if strict measures under the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) such as stopping all construction activities, introducing the odd-even road space rationing scheme, and stopping the entry of trucks into the city completely, will be implemented or not.At 416, the AQI was in the lower-end of the severe category on Sunday.Scientists on Monday said the farm fires from the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana are choking the national capital because of calm winds. Kuldeep Shrivastava, head of regional weather forecasting centre, said the wind speed in Delhi was less than 5 km per hour. “Due to the low wind speed, the smoke and pollutants cannot be dispersed which is why the condition is severe. Wind direction will switch to easterly direction and this will be a transitional phase when winds are usually calm. There may be marginal improvement in air quality on November 12 and 13, but if firecrackers are burst then condition will remain same or worsen,” he said.Around 5,000 instances of farm fires were reported in Punjab and Haryana on Monday, contributing 38% of PM 2.5 load in Delhi, according to System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research, Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology.Vijay Soni, scientist at India Meteorological Department (IMD)’s air quality division, said, “Around 5,000 instances of farm fires were reported in Punjab and Haryana contributing to the air quality being in the severe category on Monday. The air quality is likely to be in the severe category till Tuesday. If the winds become easterly tomorrow, then we can expect some improvement. As per our forecast, winds will start blowing from northwest on Tuesday,” he said.“There is anti-cyclonic wind circulation in the lower levels and subsidence of air in large parts of northwest India presently. Both are linked to slow winds and accumulation of pollutants. We have been seeing a very large number of crop stubble fire points. The combination of these factors is leading to air quality index (AQI) hovering between very poor and severe categories for the past five days,” explained RK Jenamani, senior scientist, national weather forecasting centre.The AQI is likely to be in the upper-end of very poor category on Friday and Saturday before turning severe around Diwali on November 15 and 16, according to ministry of earth sciences.Sagnik Dey, associate professor at the Institute of Technology-Delhi, said the spell of polluted air will cause problems to those infected by Covid-19.“This time around, doctors have also pointed out that high pollution levels are bad for Covid-19 transmission as well. However, more than the acute exposure, the health burden is larger for chronic exposure – which refers to the pollution levels that people of Delhi are exposed to all year round. That needs immediate attention,” he said. He explained that chronic exposure is linked to multiple health outcomes such as heart diseases, stroke, lung cancer, and also Type 2 diabetes, according to some studies. “All these eventually lead to mortality and different morbidities. One way to reduce the chronic burden is to control these pollution peaks. For instance, if we control the October-November pollution peak, we can reduce the annual PM 2.5 exposure by 15-20%,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-chokes-on-season-s-most-polluted-air/story-9CYn5TCj645QYwOpXMkDxI.html
10-11-2020||Delhi||Cracker ban SOP issued in Delhi: Fine up to ₹1 lakh or a month in prison for violators||The Delhi government on Monday released guidelines for enforcement agencies to implement the blanket ban on all kinds of firecrackers this Diwali. The guideline document directs the agencies to spread enforcement teams across Delhi, penalise violators and prepare a daily reporting system with focus on those who were granted licences for the sale of green crackers before the ban was imposed – with an objective to identify discrepancies and illegal sales, if any.The guidelines were issued by environment minister Gopal Rai, who on Monday convened a meeting with officials of the environment department, revenue department and police. These agencies, along with the municipal corporations, will be involved in the enforcement of the ban in different roles, government officials said.Rai said after the meeting, “If anyone violates the ban on firecracker bursting, they will be penalised under the Air Act. I urge every resident of Delhi to follow the ban on firecrackers… Earlier the Delhi government had allowed green crackers but looking at the increasing number of Covid-19 cases and the pollution levels, the Delhi government decided to ban all kinds of firecrackers.”Green crackers are said to contain fewer polluting substances as compared to traditional ones. Last year, under the Supreme Court’s directions, the Delhi government had allowed the sale of only green crackers and set a window of 8 pm to 10 pm for burning them during Diwali. This year’s ban on the sale, purchase, transport and burning of all kinds of firecrackers, will be in effect till November 30 midnight. Violation can lead to a penalty of up to Rs 1 lakh or a jail term that can extend up to 1 month.The guideline document, which HT has seen, said: “The city of Delhi is reeling under a third peak of outbreak of Covid-19 and large-scale celebrations by bursting of firecrackers will result not only in agglomeration of people, in violation of social distancing norms, but also would result in high level of air pollution, leading to serious health issues in Delhi… It is a matter of fact that burning of firecrackers would cause extensive air pollution and releases metal particles, dangerous toxins, harmful chemicals and noxious gases which would form one of the main sources of air pollution particularly when AQI is already reeling under ‘severe’ category.”On Monday, the air quality in Delhi remained in the “severe” category for the fifth consecutive day, with an AQI of 477 on a scale of 500.Rai mentioned the National Green Tribunal’s (NGT) total ban on the sale and use of firecrackers in Delhi-NCR from the midnight of November 9 to November 30 midnight. The NGT order said the ban will be applicable in cities and towns where the air quality is in the “poor” category.Under the standard operating procedure (SOP) in the guideline document, the Delhi revenue department and police have been directed to send patrol teams across Delhi to enforce the ban, involve resident welfare associations (RWA) and non-government organisations (NGO) and use police vans for announcements against burning of firecrackers in all localities. “Delhi Police (directed) to lodge FIR against violators,” said the document.The joint commissioner of Delhi Police’s licensing department has been directed to check on the inventory of traders who were granted licences to sell green firecrackers before the ban was imposed, to ensure no illegal stocking, possession and sale take place.“We have already been enforcing the complete ban on sale and use of firecrackers in Delhi. So far, we have recovered more than 792 kilograms of crackers and arrested 12 persons in as many cases. Apart from that eight cases have been registered for illegal bursting of firecrackers and one person has been arrested till Monday,” Delhi Police spokesperson Eish Singhal said on Monday.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress have criticised the Delhi government for the last-minute ban, saying it would affect traders who were given licences.The BJP’s Delhi unit chief Adesh Gupta said the traders should be compensated by the government.Delhi Congress chief Anil Kumar also said, “The Delhi government should provide compensation to traders who suffered heavy losses due to the ban on crackers at the last moment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cracker-ban-sop-issued-in-delhi-fine-up-to-1l-or-a-month-in-prison-for-violators/story-334Bfy80b3ktH1bUegfW6J.html
10-11-2020||Delhi||Thousands of MCD employees on indefinite strike to protest non-payment of salary, pension||Thousands of municipal employees, majority of them from the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, went on an indefinite strike on Monday, protesting against the non-payment of salaries and pensions. Striking staffers included engineers, parks and greenery maintenance staff, clerks, teachers and beldars and labourers. However, doctors, nurses and paramedic employees and sanitation workers did not participate in the strike.The agitating employees under the aegis of Confederation of MCD Employees Union also staged a protest at the Civic Centre, the headquarters of north and south Delhi corporations. They said that the employees have not been paid salaries for the last 3-4 months and pensions of retired workers are pending for over six months in the north corporation. The civil contractors of the north corporation have not been paid their bills since March 2015, the confederation said.The protesters said that during the strike they would come to the office but won’t work. On Monday, the strike was not only observed at the Civic Centre but also in zonal offices as employees abstained from performing their duties. Representatives of employee’s union said that issuance of birth and death certificates, inspection of project sites, maintenance of parks and garden and ministerial work remained suspended on Monday.AP Khan, convenor of the Confederation of MCD Employees Union — an umbrella body of civic workers in the three municipalities — said that the salary of employees is pending for 3-4 months in the north corporation while staffers of East DMC have not been paid for one month. He said that in north corporation even A-class officers have not been paid for the last three months. There is no pendency of salaries in SDMC, but other dues are yet to be paid. Pensions of retired employees in the north corporation is pending for six months while in the east and south it has not been paid for the last two months and one month respectively. “For how long anyone can work without a salary? The north corporation has paid salaries of highly paid doctors and nurses while the class four employee who get Rs 15,000, are waiting for salaries for the last four months. This discrimination in disbursal of salary is not fair and is a breach of trust. We had a meeting with all the three mayors on Saturday, but since it remained inconclusive, we have decided to go on an indefinite strike to claim our rights,” Khan said. According to civic officials, there are around 1.5 lakh employees in the three civic bodies. The north corporation alone has a workforce of around 55,000 employees and it spends nearly Rs 360 crore every month on salaries and pensions.Civic officials said that the north corporation is in the worst of financial health since there is a huge gap between its expenditure, Rs 5,000 crore, and its annual revenue which is Rs 2,000 crore. The Covid-19 pandemic has further hit the revenue collection. “This year the state government is yet to give our share of Basic Tax Assignment (BTA), which the government collects on behalf of the civic body, along with other dues. The situation can improve if we get money from the state government,” a senior official of the north corporation said.Jai Prakash, north corporation’s mayor, said the situation could improve if the Delhi government releases the pending amount of Rs 2,900 crore (approx). “We are making all possible efforts of releasing pending salaries of employees. We have already released salaries for September 2020 to doctors, nurses and paramedic staff and sanitation workers and the salaries of remaining workers will be given soon but they should also understand that strike is not a way to help improve the situation,” Prakash said.The Delhi government has repeatedly clarified that it has paid the due funds to the municipalities and that it does it not owe any money to them. Vikas Goel, AAP councillor and leader of opposition in the north corporation, said, “The Delhi government had been paying all its shares to the corporation on time. The crisis is because of corruption and mismanagement of funds.”KS Mehra, former municipal commissioner of the unified MCD pointed out a number of factors that are responsible for the poor financial health of the north civic body, including poor revenue collection and limited revenue generation options. He said that many residential colonies, which fall under the north corporation, are low-income neighbourhoods and residents don’t pay property tax while in south Delhi, the number of affluent colonies is high which also pay taxes. Besides, north corporation covers a bigger area than the south and also has big civic hospitals so it has higher expenditure but revenue generation is low.“The civic bodies, especially the north corporation, should consolidate their fund generation and collection. The government is still giving funds according to recommendations of 3rd Delhi Finance Commission despite the fact that the cost of equipment and manpower has increased over the years but the grants are the same. Municipal grants should also be increased to bail them out,” Mehra said.Nirmal Jain, EDMC mayor, said, “We have paid salaries till September 2020 and the October salaries will be released soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thousands-of-mcd-employees-on-indefinite-strike-to-protest-non-payment-of-salary-pension/story-DVkD4sQlBGc8SkO80P2nNP.html
10-11-2020||Delhi||‘Graft in MCD’: Case registered on BJP complaint||Delhi Police has registered a case on a complaint filed by Delhi BJP general secretary Kuljeet Chahal regarding a “fake” news video being circulated on social media, allegedly by AAP leaders, claiming corruption in the BJP-ruled municipal corporations.In his police complaint filed on November 7, Chahal alleged AAP spokesperson Durgesh Pathak and leader of the opposition in the North Delhi Municipal Corporation Vikash Goel had in a press conference“levelled serious and unfounded allegations” against BJP councillors, alleging “misappropriation of funds collected by the North corporation as property tax”. “It has come to our knowledge that a fake news video is being circulated to defame our party (BJP),” Chahal said. Deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi) Eish Singhal said an FIR has been registered at the North Avenue police station under sections of cheating, for forging document or electronic record and under Information Technology Act to probe the forgery. The FIR has been registered in connection with the fake video in circulation and the matter is being investigated.In response to the allegations, Pathak said, “The complaint is baseless and fake and we will reply in court.” Goel too said the same.Refuting the allegations, AAP said in a statement, “Th BJP has levelled baseless and false allegations. We will respond in court.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/graft-in-mcd-case-registered-on-bjp-complaint/story-NKegMpmk48zRDkVRh08q1I.html
10-11-2020||Delhi||AAP-BJP again spar over strike by civic body employees||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday criticised the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led municipal corporations in Delhi (MCD) for the ongoing strike by thousands of employees demanding their salaries and accused the civic body of corruption.The BJP hit back accusing the AAP government in Delhi of not releasing funds to the municipal corporations.Thousands of civic employees, majorly from the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, went on an indefinite strike on Monday against non-payment of salaries and pension. The protesting employees range from engineers, clerical staff and teachers to sanitation workers. Some of them said that they did not receive salaries for around four months now. Last month, doctors and health care workers in MCD hospitals had staged protests on similar grounds.“If the BJP-ruled MCD cannot give salary to its employees, then it has no moral right to remain in power. If they are not in a position to pay salaries, it is only because of rampant corruption. BJP is only doing politics on the salary of the employees to defame the AAP government. Today, 1.25 lakh employees of all three corporations are on strike for non-payment of salaries, all offices are closed and all the work has been stalled and that is affecting people of Delhi,” said Durgesh Pathak, the AAP’s in charge of municipal affairs.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said that work in the municipal corporation offices was not affected and labelled Pathak’s allegations as “false”. He further said, “The municipalities are facing a fund crunch in the first place because the AAP-led Delhi government has not released the money that is due.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/aap-bjp-again-spar-over-strike-by-civic-body-employees/story-v3ubldgg63eXTAyjk2jtAP.html
10-11-2020||Delhi||Minors raped: Both suspects were familiar to victims, say police||The suspects in the rape of two minor girls in north and outer-north districts on November 3 were familiar to the victims, police said on Monday. It was earlier reported that the accused were strangers.In the first case reported from Gulabi Bagh, a six-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a 52-year-old man after he lured her away from a public park near her home. Anto Alphonse, deputy commissioner of police (north), said the girl told her family about the incident and described the suspect to them. Since the man lived in the same neighbourhood, the girl showed his house to her family members following which they approached the police. “The girl’s family immediately took her to identify the house. The girl was able to identify the house after which her family approached the Gulabi Bagh police station,” said Alphonse. The police then arrested the suspected, an unmarried rickshaw puller, from his house. “He had lured the girl away to his home and raped her there,” said the DCP. He said the suspect and the victim girl were not strangers. “Their houses are located in the same neighbourhood, about 300 metres from each other. The suspect and the girl’s family knew each other since they lived in the same neighbourhood,” said Alphonse. In the second case reported from Narela, the police said that the four-year-old girl and her sister were playing outside a temple, about a kilometre from their home, with several other children when the suspect lured her away on November 3. Jitendra Kumar Meena, who is serving temporarily as the deputy commissioner of police of outer-north district, said the 14-year-old suspect used to play with the children. He said that the victim’s parents did not know the suspect, or vice-versa. “Their houses are located in separate blocks,” said Meena. On November 3, the suspect handed a Rs10 note to the girl and asked her to purchase a water bottle. “When the girl went to get water, he took her into the bushes and raped her. He then left the crime scene while the victim returned home,” said the officer. The girl’s grandmother took her to the hospital after she noticed bleeding. When the police were informed, investigators asked the children about the suspect. “A 10-year-old boy described the hair and clothes of the suspect. On that basis, we nabbed the suspect the day after the crime even though he was trying to hide as he knew he had done a crime,” said the DCP. The police formally apprehended the suspect two days after the crime when they were able to establish his alleged involvement, said Meena. The Delhi Police has said that an analysis of all rape cases this year show that in 97.25% of the cases, the suspects were known to the victims and in only 2.75% cases were strangers involved. Eish Singhal, Delhi Police spokesperson, said that the police have been running programmes such as Nirbheek, Nazuk and Sashakti to sensitise young students and children on such issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/minors-raped-both-suspects-were-familiar-to-victims-say-police/story-9i6yMkCzIGFroau194VyoM.html
10-11-2020||Delhi||In special sitting, Supreme Court to hear Delhi govt’s plea on Covid beds||The Supreme Court will hold a special sitting on Tuesday to consider the appeal filed by the Delhi government to implement its September 12 decision, asking 33 private hospitals and nursing homes to reserve 80 per cent beds in the intensive care unit (ICU) for Covid-19 patients.The Delhi high court on September 22 stayed this decision on a plea filed by Association of Healthcare Providers. Later, the Delhi government challenged this order before a division bench of the high court. This bench on October 9 refused to stay the September 22 direction and posted the matter for hearing on November 27. With the surge in Covid-19 cases and in view of the urgency, the Delhi government approached the Supreme Court against the HC decisions of September 22 and October 9.As the Supreme Court is closed for Diwali vacations, a notification on the top court’s website indicates that the special leave petition (SLP) filed by the Delhi government will be heard on Tuesday by a bench of justices Ashok Bhushan and BR Gavai. The hearing will begin at 10.30am.In its appeal filed through advocate Chirag M Shroff, the Delhi government highlighted the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi, which has breached the daily average mark of 7,000 cases.The government said that out of a total of 1,263 registered hospitals and nursing homes, 88 are run by the government while 1,175 are under private sector. There are 168 private hospitals in Delhi out of which the September 12 order impacts only 33 hospitals. In these 168 hospitals, there are 3,239 ICU beds of which more than 50 per cent beds (almost 1712 beds) remain available for non-Covid patients.However, the Delhi high court stayed the Delhi government’s decision on the ground that it would impact non-Covid patients.The Delhi government’s petition before the SC said, “As per the recommendations in the 3rd report of the Empowered Group (headed by NITI Aayog member VK Paul ), a total of 20,604 beds would be required for managing the disease burden in a scenario with 500 cases per million per day in Delhi requiring an escalation of 4891 beds from the current strength of 15,713 beds.”The government said in the petition that facilities at its hospitals have been augmented but there remains a section of society which prefers admission in private hospitals including those with health insurance, subsidized health schemes of central and the Delhi government and ex-servicemen. The government received several complaints that such patients were being denied hospital beds in ICU by these private hospitals that led to the order being issued, the petition said.The petition claimed that the association which has approached the high court has masked their financial interests under the garb of fighting for the misery of non-Covid patients when not a single such patient has complained of being discriminated against.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-special-sitting-sc-to-hear-delhi-govt-s-plea-on-covid-beds/story-fLk1ayEoSUw9IrqA3CyLyN.html
10-11-2020||HT||Lockdown hit income of 80% families: Survey||Lockdown has impacted the income of 80% families, mostly single-income, reducing it by more than 50% in 40.8% cases and less than 50% in 39.9%, according to a month-long survey of around 23,000 students spread across Mumbai, Thane, Raigad, Navi Mumbai, Palghar, Sindhudurg and Ratnagiri. Conducted by the Bombay University and College Teachers’ Union (BUCTU), the idea was to understand how the lockdown affected students’ lives, especially as regular classes are being conducted online since the first week of September. “The survey was conducted in July 2020, before online classes were to begin. Through the survey, we wanted to find out if the students were prepared for this change in education pattern. The University of Mumbai had conducted no such survey before asking all colleges to start online classes in September,” stated the report. According to the survey, 80% of the respondents have only one earning member in the family. While in Sindhudurg and Palghar districts, 82% reported loss of income during the lockdown, the numbers in Ratnagiri, Raigad and Mumbai stand at 78.8%, 76.5% and 75%, respectively. Students were also asked if the loss in monthly income will affect their ability to pay fees for the 2020-21 academic year and almost 27.5% students said they will be in no position to pay the annual college fees. Another 27.9% said they would need the option of paying the fees in instalments as paying a lump sum amount in fees would be impossible at present. “In the previous academic year, 71.3% of the same respondents had managed to pay their annual fees in lumpsum, whereas 28% had paid their fees in instalments. Family income during lockdown is the sole reason for this change,” stated the survey report. “Due to the pandemic, the entire survey was conducted by asking students to fill Google forms. This limited our sample size as we couldn’t reach out to many students in the tribal areas. That itself shows how some students are being deprived of education due to accessibility issues,” said Madhu Paranjape, general secretary, BUCTU, who co-authored this report along with Tapati Mukhopadhyay, president of Maharashtra Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisation (MFUCTO). The survey also found out the devices used by students to participate in online lectures and shows that almost 95% students own mobile phones. It further shows that nearly 63.1% have access to internet via mobile data and 16.2% through WiFi at home. A small portion of the respondents have access to cybercafes in case they don’t have the option of a mobile phone or laptop/desktop. The survey also showed that almost 95% students own mobile phones, 63.1% have access to internet via mobile data and 16.2% through WiFi at home. A total of 14% students said they have access to mobile internet as well as WiFi connection. A small portion of the respondents have access to cybercafes in case they don’t have the option of a mobile phone or laptop/desktop. When asked about their ability to switch over to online mode for a longer period, almost 40% students said it would be impossible to do so either due to affordability issues (6.8%) or due to irregular network and electricity trouble (33%). Another 21% said they find the physical class mode more effective in comparison to the online mode, while 39.1% respondents said they found the online classes very effective. BUCTU hopes to share this survey with the state government and demand monetary compensation for students. “The more this lockdown extends, higher are the chances of students dropping out of higher education. Students are already worried about paying their fees for the current academic year and if the government doesn’t make arrangements to avoid such problems, too many students will suffer,” said Tapati Mukhopadhyay. “Online education, in the current scenario, is the only option to ensure education is not stalled. That said, the role of the government in ensuring that each student is following online education is something that can’t be ignored,” said SS Mantha, former director of All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE). He added that while calling for sudden change from physical classrooms to virtual education, the government should have studied the change better before implementing it haphazardly. “The government can easily invest in a service provider and make online education subsidised for students across the state, which will ensure the monetary burden doesn’t fall on colleges or students and also bring uniformity in teaching across colleges,” he said. “Most classes are monologues wherein students have no option of interacting in the middle of the class and research has shown how students can be attentive only for a limited time in virtual classrooms. We need a change in online teaching pedagogy if we want online classes to work.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-lockdown-hit-income-of-80-families-in-mumbai-metropolitan-region-raigad-ratnagiri-finds-survey/story-qdiOuf6GEWEXIDqmkRE3OI.html
10-11-2020||World||Russia deploys peacekeepers to secure Azeri-Armenia truce||Russian peacekeeping troops deployed to Nagorno-Karabakh on Tuesday under a deal that halted six weeks of fighting between Azeri and ethnic Armenian forces, and froze territorial gains by Azerbaijan. The agreement ended military action and restored relative calm to the breakaway territory, internationally recognised as part of Azerbaijan but populated and, until recently, fully controlled by ethnic Armenians.The territory that Azerbaijan will keep includes the mountain enclave’s second city of Shusha, which Armenians call Shushi, and ethnic Armenian forces must give up control of a slew of other areas by December 1.Russian President Vladimir Putin said the deal, announced overnight and also signed by Moscow, should pave the way for a lasting political settlement to weeks of fighting that killed thousands, displaced many more and threatened to spark a wider war.Azerbaijan, which had been trying to regain land lost during a war in the 1990s, hailed the deal as a victory. Azeris celebrated in the capital, Baku, sounding car and bus horns in delight and cheering and waving the Azeri national flag. “This (ceasefire) statement has historic significance. This statement constitutes Armenia’s capitulation. This statement puts an end to the years-long occupation,” Azeri President Ilham Aliyev said. Armenian PM Nikol Pashinyan denied Armenia had suffered a defeat but acknowledged a “disaster” for which he took personal responsibility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-deploys-peacekeepers-to-secure-azeri-armenia-truce/story-7zJrp9VZSfoZJ7aeXf3SlI.html
10-11-2020||World||Christian mother, son killed in Pak over alleged blasphemous remarks||A Christian mother and her son were murdered in broad day light at a village in the Pakistani province of Punjab on Monday in what media reports said was a killing over alleged blasphemy.In a report filed by Shabbir Masih with the local police, he stated that his wife Yasmeen Masih and son Usman Masih were killed by their neighbour Hussain Shakoor in Hussain Kathore village located in Ahmad Nagar area of Gujranwala district after a heated argument between Yasmeen and Hussain’s mother, Itrat Bibi.There is no mention of blasphemy in the police report and the reason for the killing has been described as a personal dispute over cleaning of the street on which both families lived. The husband has stated in his report that some months ago, the two women had entered into an argument and this was the reason why Itrat Bibi and her son took revenge on Monday. Hussain Shakoor first shot Yasmeen and when her son came to aid his mother, he also was also shot in the chest.Media reports have suggested that Itrat Bibi and her son Hussain Shakoor killed the mother and son because they claim they heard them utter blasphemous words during the argument. Police have so far refuted this claim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/christian-mother-son-killed-in-pak-over-alleged-blasphemous-remarks/story-N4Tr8s5waF4qkkMsjtznSJ.html
10-11-2020||World||Britain mulls plan to ban online junk food adverts to tackle obesity||Britain proposed a ban on online advertising of unhealthy foods on Tuesday, as part of its efforts to tackle obesity and improve public health - a mission it says has been made more urgent by the COVID-19 pandemic.The government says obesity is one of Britain’s biggest long-term public health problems with almost two-thirds of adults in England overweight and one in three children leaving primary school overweight or obese.Measures published by the government would, if implemented, ban online adverts for foods high in fat, sugar and salt.“We know as children spend more time online, parents want to be reassured they are not being exposed to adverts promoting unhealthy foods, which can affect eating habits for life,” health minister Matt Hancock said in a statement.Being overweight has been shown to increase the risk of serious illness or death from COVID-19 - a fact highlighted by Prime Minister Boris Johnson who has publicly talked about his own need to lose weight since being hospitalised with the disease.The government said earlier this year it wanted to ban television and online advertising for unhealthy foods before 9 p.m, but the draft measures published on Tuesday would go further and introduce a total ban online.This would include paid-for adverts and search listings, adverts pushed directly on mobile devices and viral advertisements - content produced with the aim of being widely shared on social media. Other forms of online advertising would also be banned.The plan is being put out for consultation with the industry, the public and other interested parties over the next six weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/britain-mulls-plan-to-ban-online-junk-food-adverts-to-tackle-obesity/story-JEiON8vQM2iv6sQH9zjDYO.html
10-11-2020||World||Al Qaeda leader dies, Afghan forces accuse Taliban of harbouring him||Afghanistan’s intelligence agency said on Tuesday they had killed a senior regional Al Qaeda member in southwestern Afghanistan, accusing the insurgent Taliban of harbouring him.Under a deal with the United States, signed in February, the Taliban agreed to cut ties with international militant groups including Al Qaeda.Afghanistan’s National Directorate of Security said in a statement they had killed the Al Qaeda leader during an operation in Afghanistan’s Farah province where he was “given a safe haven and protection” by the Taliban.The Taliban, in response to a request for comment, said they were investigating the issue.The United States is due to pull out its troops by May under a deal with the Taliban, subject to security guarantees while the insurgent group holds talks with the Afghan government in Doha to broker a peace deal.It was not immediately clear how an incoming US administration led by President-elect Joe Biden would treat the deal, though most analysts expect the United States to continue to abide by the agreement.Washington has been trying to end more than 19 years of war since the United States invaded Afghanistan to topple the Taliban rulers, who had harboured al Qaeda militants who attacked the United States on Sept. 11, 2001.United Nations monitors said in a report released in June that the Taliban continued to maintain ties with Al Qaeda.Afghan security forces last month killed a senior al Qaeda leader who was on the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s Most Wanted Terrorists list in Afghanistan’s central Ghazni province.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/al-qaeda-leader-dies-afghan-forces-accuse-taliban-of-harbouring-him/story-Bs8ALZA0LIDjRxG2gIZmWN.html
10-11-2020||World||UK govt defiant after House of Lords rejects Brexit bill||The British government is refusing to withdraw legislation that breaks a legally binding Brexit treaty, despite a resounding rejection of the bill by the upper house of Parliament.The House of Lords voted by large margins late Monday to strip from the Internal Market Bill clauses that give the government power to break sections of the divorce agreement it signed with the European Union before the UK left the bloc in January.Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s government acknowledges that the bill breaches international law, and the legislation has been condemned by the EU, US President-elect Joe Biden and scores of British lawmakers, including many from Johnson’s Conservative Party.Former Conservative leader Michael Howard, a member of the Lords, said he was “dismayed” by the bill and urged the government to think again.But the government said it would restore the rejected sections when the bill returns to the House of Commons in the coming weeks.It says the bill is needed as an insurance policy to ensure smooth trade among all parts of the UK — especially Northern Ireland, which shares a border with the EU — no matter what happens to UK-EU trade after Brexit.“We’ve been consistently clear that the clauses represent a legal safety net to protect the integrity of the UK’s internal market and the huge gains of the (Northern Ireland) peace process,” the government said in a statement.Britain left the EU’s political structures on January 31 but remains in its economic embrace until a transition period ends on December 31. The two sides are trying to strike a new trade deal, but talks are stuck on key issues, and have been soured further by the Internal Market Bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-govt-defiant-after-house-of-lords-rejects-brexit-bill/story-xWZASr81fN8Wgizlsj2jCK.html
10-11-2020||World||Xi says SCO member states should resolve disputes, differences through dialogue||Chinese President Xi Jinping on Tuesday said that members of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) should deepen mutual trust and resolve disputes and differences through dialogue and consultations, while firmly dealing with terrorist, separatist and extremist forces. Addressing the Council of Heads of State of the SCO grouping via video link, Xi said that history has proved and will continue to prove that good, neighbourly friendship will go beyond a beggar-thy-neighbour approach, mutually beneficial cooperation will take over the zero-sum game and multilateralism will prevail over unilateralism.“We need to deepen solidarity and mutual trust and resolve disputes and differences through dialogue and consultations,” Xi said in remarkes in the backdrop of the over six-month-long border standoff between India and China in eastern Ladakh.Prime Minister Narendra Modi and leaders of the eight-member SCO grouping attended the virtual summit hosted by Russian President Vladimir Putin.“We need to act on the vision of common, comprehensive and sustainable security, address all forms of threats and challenges effectively and foster a sound security atmosphere in our region,” he said.Countries of the SCO should “resolutely oppose external forces’ interfering in their internal affairs under any pretext,” Xi said. SCO members should “firmly support countries concerned in law-based efforts to steadily advance major domestic political agenda. Firmly support countries in safeguarding political security and social stability and firmly oppose interference by external forces in the domestic affairs of SCO members under whatever pretext,” he said.In order to cement the political foundation for SCO development it is important to foil “terrorist, separatist and extremists attempt to exploit the pandemic for disruption, curb the proliferation of drugs, crackdown on internet-based propagation of extremist ideology and deepen SCO members law enforcement cooperation,” he said.“It is import we support biosecurity, data security and outer space security and engage in active communication and dialogue in this field”, he said. The SCO founding members are China, Russia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan. India and Pakistan were admitted into the grouping in 2017. The SCO summit over video link is being organised by Russia, which will also host a virtual summit of BRICS, (Brazil, Russia, India, China, South Africa) leaders on November 17.India is also set to host the virtual meeting of the SCO Heads of the Government on November 30 in which Chinese Premier Li Keqiang is expected to take part.On the fight against Covid-19, Xi said SCO countries should set up a hotline among their centres for disease control, and China is ready to consider in a proactive approach to the needs of countries for Covid-19 vaccines.It is necessary to strengthen joint forces among countries in prevention and controls, support each other’s fight against the epidemic, and further promote exchanges and cooperation in such areas as epidemic surveillance, scientific research, disease prevention and treatment, Xi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/xi-says-sco-member-states-should-resolve-disputes-differences-through-dialogue/story-NSiB8gOEbs3XUR7nHOj8uM.html
10-11-2020||World||How Pfizer vaccine could be cold comfort for some Asian nations||With tropical heat, remote island communities and a dearth of ultra-cold freezers, many Asian countries aren’t betting on Pfizer’s experimental vaccine solving their Covid-19 crisis any time soon.The world cheered on Monday when Pfizer Inc announced its shot, jointly developed with BioNTech SE, was more than 90% effective based on initial trial results.Yet health experts cautioned that the vaccine, should it be approved, was no silver bullet - not least because the genetic material it’s made from needs to be stored at temperatures of minus 70 degrees Celsius (-94 F) or below.Such requirements pose a particularly daunting challenge for countries in Asia, as well as in places like Africa and Latin America, where intense heat is often compounded by poor infrastructure that will make it difficult to keep the “cold chain” intact during deliveries to rural areas and islands.That is a problem for everyone in the world, given the World Health Organization estimates about 70% of people must be inoculated to end the pandemic, and Asia alone is home to more than 4.6 billion - or three-fifths of the global population.Also read | On Pfizer’s big announcement, India says in touch with all Covid-19 vaccine manufacturersSome Asian countries are prioritising containing the novel coronavirus rather than looking to stockpile vaccines, while others are looking for alternatives to the messenger RNA technology used by Pfizer that requires such ultra-cold storage.“On the cold chain requirement of -70 degrees, that is a hefty requirement. We do not have such facility,” Philippines’ Health Secretary Francisco Duque told Reuters.“We will have to wait and see for now,” he added. “The technology Pfizer is using is new technology. We don’t have experience with that, so risks can be high.”Pfizer told Reuters that it had developed detailed logistical plans and tools to support vaccine transport, storage and continuous temperature monitoring.“We have also developed packaging and storage innovations to be fit for purpose for the range of locations where we believe vaccinations will take place,” it said.‘VACCINE IS STORY FOR FUTURE’Yet even wealthier nations like South Korea and Japan are managing expectations.“Storage is going to be a big challenge for us,” said Fumie Sakamoto, infection control manager at St. Luke’s International Hospital in Tokyo.Also read | Covid-19 vaccine 90% effective in Phase 3 trial, says US pharma giant Pfizer“I’m not sure how well prepared our government is with regards to maintaining the cold chain. Hospitals in Japan usually do not have ultra-cold freezers, but I think it’s high time we started thinking about the logistics for the vaccine.”Japan is among three countries in Asia Pacific that have announced supply deals for the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine. It has signed a deal for 120 million doses, while Australia has secured 10 million doses and China’s Fosun has secured 10 million doses for Hong Kong and Macau.Japan’s PHC Corp, which supplies medical freezers, told Reuters that demand had shot up 150% this year and that they were increasing production to meet demand.Kwon Jun-wook, an official at South Korea’s Disease Control and Prevention Agency (KDCA), said it wanted to see how vaccination progressed in other countries first and would thoroughly review its supply chain.The country had recently experienced the problems of cold storage when it had to discard about 5 million doses of flu vaccines because they were not stored at recommended temperatures.A 2018 study commissioned by the agency found that only a quarter of 2,200 private clinics it surveyed had medical refrigerators, with 40% using household refrigerators.For some countries, it’s still very early days.Indonesia, whose 273 million people are scattered over more than 17,000 islands, is considering a variety of vaccines, but the Pfizer one is not yet among them, said Airlangga Hartarto, who heads the country’s COVID-19 response team.Vietnam, which successfully contained its outbreak through aggressive mass testing and strict border controls, said it would continue to focus on containment effort.“The vaccine is a story for the future,” Deputy Prime Minister Vu Duc Dam, told a government meeting on Friday.“Demand is far higher than supply, and we have to pay large deposits to secure our position, which I see as very high risk and a waste of money and time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/how-pfizer-vaccine-could-be-cold-comfort-for-some-asian-nations/story-il7CW5RCDMUxFyXOKeTSdM.html
10-11-2020||World||‘Lockdown’ is Collins Word of the Year 2020||Lockdown, the containment measure implemented by governments around the world to mitigate the spread of Covid-19, has been named the Collins Word of the Year 2020.According to the dictionary, lockdown is defined as “the imposition of stringent restrictions on travel, social interaction, and access to public spaces”. “Our lexicographers chose lockdown as Word of the Year because it is a unifying experience for billions of people across the world, who have had, collectively, to play their part in combating the spread of COVID-19,” Collins said.“Language is a reflection of the world around us and 2020 has been dominated by the global pandemic,” said Helen Newstead, language content consultant at Collins.“Lockdown has affected the way we work, study, shop, and socialise. With many countries entering a second lockdown, it is not a word of the year to celebrate but it is, perhaps, one that sums up the year for most of the world,” she said.The dictionary said it registered over a quarter of a million usages of the word lockdown during 2020, against only 4,000 the previous year.Several other words related to the pandemic are included in Collins’ long list of the top 10 words of the year, which include furlough or the temporary laying-off of employees, usually because there isn’t sufficient work to employ them, and self-isolate, or to quarantine oneself if one has or suspects contagious disease. The word coronavirus is there too, with an extraordinary 35,000-fold increase in use year-on-year, and defined as any of the group of viruses that cause infectious illnesses of the respiratory tract, including Covid-19. But the social impacts – the changes to behaviour and the human way of life – dominate the list for the year.“The restrictions placed on how we move about and interact with one another arguably had the most impact. And they’re represented first and foremost by social distancing, a concept now so pervasive that it has also entered the language as a verb ‘to socially distance’,” Collins notes.However, the dictionary points out that 2020 was not all about the pandemic. Megxit, or Prince Harry and wife Meghan Meghan’s decision to stand down as senior members of the UK royal family, was among some of the other top words of the year. BLM or Black Lives Matter, the huge global anti-racism movement, was one of the other key words. And, on a lighter note, there is the word “mukbang” all the way from Korea, which means a video or webcast in which the host noisily eats a large quantity of food for the entertainment of viewers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/lockdown-is-collins-word-of-the-year-2020-as-it-is-unifying-experience-amid-pandemic/story-5EakpjIPn0MCMVzLQo5SdN.html
10-11-2020||World||UK nurse re-arrested on suspicion of murder in baby deaths||A British nurse has been arrested for the third time in relation to the deaths of more than a dozen babies at a hospital, police said Tuesday.Police said the woman was re-arrested on suspicion of murder in relation to the deaths of eight babies, and the attempted murder of nine others, at the neonatal unit of the Countess of Chester Hospital, south of Liverpool in northwestern England.Police first launched an investigation into the deaths of a number of babies at the hospital in May 2017. Detectives initially looked into the deaths of 15 babies between 2015 and 2016, and the probe later widened to the deaths of 17 babies and 16 “non-fatal collapses” in the same period.The nurse was previously arrested in 2018 and 2019. She was bailed pending further enquiries both times and had not been charged.She was questioned in police custody Tuesday.Detective Chief Inspector Paul Hughes said a team of detectives has been working on the “highly complex and very sensitive case” and said he could not provide further details.“Parents of all the babies have been kept fully updated on this latest development,” he said in a statement. “This is an extremely difficult time for all the families and it is important to remember that, at the heart of this, there are a number of bereaved families seeking answers as to what happened to their children.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-nurse-re-arrested-on-suspicion-of-murder-in-baby-deaths/story-KHOMeK3zfr3kDaTRAVDjCM.html
10-11-2020||World||UK seizes nearly 1.75 lakh erectile dysfunction pills sourced from India||Britain’s border officials said on Tuesday they seized 174,400 sildenafil tablets sourced from India to the UK and 500 gm of cocaine from Nigeria destined for India among other seizures during a month-long operation that also recovered elephant tusks and reptile skin products.The seizure of sildenafil tablets from India meant to treat erectile dysfunction (ED) is the second such major UK seizure in two years. The Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency had seized 3.5 million such pills worth £10 million in 2019, 96 per cent of them shipped from India.ED pills are available through pharmacies on a doctor’s prescription after an assessment, but often illegal traders posing as legitimate suppliers sell unlicensed medications for the UK market online, offering tempting prices lower than the real deal, officials said.Officials said on Tuesday that during the Operation Thunder from September 14 to October 11, Border Force officers at ports and airports made 178 seizures containing thousands of products regulated under the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species.The international operation was co-led by the World Customs Organisation and Interpol and involved police, customs, environment, wildlife and forestry agencies from 111 countries. The seizures included 1.3 tonnes of ivory, more than one tonne of Pangolin scales, 1,400 live turtles and 1,800 reptiles.Chris Philp, minister for Immigration Compliance and the Courts, said: “The trade in endangered species is driven by organised crime groups and the movement of banned animal products is key to how they operate”.“This is why Border Force’s specialist officers will continue their vital work at the border to prevent the importation and exportation of endangered animals and plants, as well as working alongside enforcement partners such as the National Wildlife Crime Unit, and police from across the UK to eradicate this ruthless and exploitative trade”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-seizes-nearly-1-75-lakh-erectile-dysfunction-pills-sourced-from-india/story-5Y6ok3kg7eDgTmxNMS3InK.html
10-11-2020||World||European leaders weigh terrorism strategy after attacks||The leaders of France, Austria, Germany and the European Union(EU) are meeting Tuesday to discuss Europe’s response to terrorism threats after recent deadly Islamic extremist attacks.French President Emmanuel Macron and Austrian Chancellor Sebastian Kurz are meeting in Paris after both of their countries have lost lives to Islamic extremist attackers in recent weeks.The two leaders will then hold a video conference with German Chancellor Angela Merkel, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen and European Council President Charles Michel to discuss collective anti-terrorism strategy.The meeting comes a week after a man who officials said had tried to join the Islamic State group shot four people to death in Vienna. The shooting has strengthened calls in Austria for a crackdown on Islamic extremism.Kurz called Monday for a coordinated, Europe-wide effort on actions including tackling political Islam, addressing the threat of fighters returning from conflict zones and “proper protection of the EU’s external borders.”In France last month, an Islamic extremist killed three people in a church in the French city of Nice, and another extremist beheaded a teacher near Paris because he had shown his students cartoons of Islam’s prophet for a discussion about freedom of expression.As a result of the attacks, Macron last week proposed tighter controls on the EU’s external borders, more coordinated policing inside the bloc’s border-free zone, and changes to EU migration policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/european-leaders-weigh-terrorism-strategy-after-attacks/story-mFCmapldUT0EZDJP5fb4fL.html
10-11-2020||World||23 Indian sailors docked off Chinese port not allowed to disembark since June||The fate of 23 Indian sailors stuck on a merchant navy ship anchored off a port in northern China appears to be uncertain with Beijing reportedly not allowing them to get off the vessel in the backdrop of increasing imported Covid-19 cases in the country.The bulk carrier Jag Anand has been anchored off the Jingtang port on Bohai Sea in northern China’s Hebei province since June, putting the physical and mental health of the sailors at risk.The ship sailed from the port of Gladstone in Australia on May 26 – carrying Australian coal – and reached Jingtang port in China on June 13.Since that day, the ship has been anchored 2-3 km away from the port.In April, China’s General Administration of Customs had announced strict management measures for crew members of international ships and flights coming into the country.In October, China opened up 10 ports for foreign crew exchange while implementing a circuit-breaker mechanism to prevent imported Covid-19 cases – Jingtang, an artificial deep water port, wasn’t among the 10.Shipping companies have been advised to closely monitor the port’s local quarantine conditions and implement a closed-loop management as per the quarantine requirements issued by the local port, Copenhagen-based BIMCO, an organisation for shipowners, shipbrokers and agents, said in a report in October.It’s not clear whether the rapidly deteriorating ties between China and Australia also played a part in the situation that the ship and its crew find themselves in.The Chinese foreign ministry did not respond to questions from the Hindustan Times asking about the well-being of the Indian sailors and on the protocols that need to be followed in such cases.At the regular ministry briefing on Tuesday, foreign ministry spokesperson, Wang Wenbin, however, said “convenience” was being provided to the sailors.“As I understand, China has clear regulations on ports epidemic prevention and control and crew members quarantine requirements and as much as the regulations allow, we are providing convenience for these crew members,” Wang said.Responding to the question on whether the “…ship has been arrested and denied departure”, Wang declined to share details.“As for the specifics, I would still refer you to the competent Chinese authorities or relevant local government,” he said.A report by India’s ANI earlier this week said the 23 Indian crew members on board are seeking help to return home; some are suffering from health issues and the ship is running short of medicines, the report said.HT has learnt that while the local port authorities have not allowed the “crew change” – whereby a ship’s crew can disembark and head back to their country of origin – it has been communicated to them that anyone needing treatment could be allowed to come ashore temporarily for medical attention.Many of the crew members have completed their tenure with the company and were expecting to be back home months earlier.Port authorities have also communicated to the ship that it has the option to sail away from the port or wait its turn – in a queue of multiple ships – to discharge its cargo.No timeframe, however, has been given when Jag Anand’s turn would come to discharge its cargo.According to the ANI report, the family members of the crew have written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and external affairs minister S Jaishankar regarding the situation.“Due to severance of diplomatic ties between China, the Australia vessel is on anchor since June 13. The Customs authorities have not cleared the concerning cargo. At present, most of the crew have ended their stipulated contractual obligation and been on board for more than a year, some of them even exceeding 15 months,” the letter, quoted in the ANI report said.“Despite various attempts by the company through diplomatic resources, there has been no respite to crew sufferance who have been inflicted with not only physical stress but mental fatigue,” the letter read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/23-indian-sailors-docked-off-chinese-port-not-allowed-to-disembark-since-june/story-FofK175I4wRS5tOVkKtgQN.html
10-11-2020||World||US denounces terms for WHO-led inquiry into Covid-19 origins||The United States said on Tuesday that the terms for a World Health Organization-led team of experts that is to investigate the origins of the new coronavirus were not transparently negotiated or conform with its mandate from member states.“We are quite literally in the fight of our lifetime as Covid-19 pandemic is causing death and societal disruption,” Garrett Grigsby, director of the office of global affairs at the US Department of Health and Human Services, told the WHO’s annual ministerial assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-denounces-terms-for-who-led-inquiry-into-covid-19-origins/story-cu5wjvK6yKvHdzrW8DchUI.html
10-11-2020||World||Abu Dhabi to spend $41 million to develop technology to grow food in arid regions||Abu Dhabi is stepping up investment in projects for farming in the desert -- and even space -- as the Covid-19 crisis prompts more efforts to safeguard food supply.The Abu Dhabi Investment Office will spend about $41 million with other companies to develop technologies for producing food in arid conditions. The partnerships include a greenhouse venture focused on growing fruit and vegetables with less water. ADIO will also work with a firm that uses the International Space Station to research producing food in space and extreme climates on Earth.The pandemic has forced a rethink among many nations on how to feed their people. Oil-rich but water-scarce countries like the United Arab Emirates -- which imports as much as 90% of its food -- have been working on boosting domestic output and investing in farming abroad ever since food crises struck a decade ago. The coronavirus crisis is now accelerating those plans.“What 2020 has brought to light is the need to improve self-sufficiency, to be more efficient with the resources that we do have,” Tariq Bin Hendi, director general of the ADIO, said in an interview. “It’s not just about growing crops, we are looking at this across the seed-to-plate ecosystem of agtech.”This year, the UAE announced a project to grow rice in the desert and imported 4,500 dairy cows from Uruguay.Abu Dhabi will award financial and non-financial incentives to expand companies’ operations in the emirate. FreshToHome Foods Pvt will bring expertise in fish farming, while Pure Harvest Smart Farms, which already operates greenhouses in the United Arab Emirates, will invest in artificial intelligence, autonomous growing and robotics at new farms in Al Ain, an oasis town near the border with Oman.NanoRacks LLC is creating a commercial space research center in Abu Dhabi to develop technology for desert farming and long-term space exploration.Additional SpendingThe spending builds on a $100 million investment earlier this year to encourage agtech firms to build research and development facilities in Abu Dhabi, which has attracted vertical farming companies such as AeroFarms LLC.“You have a big push to bring in these technology players because it does help with water usage, with yield, with how it is you manage crops,” Bin Hendi said. “We are never going to move away from reliance on international food imports, but we need to become more self-sufficient with some of the critical food items that we have.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/abu-dhabi-to-spend-41-million-to-develop-technology-to-grow-food-in-arid-regions/story-Xdl5468YbipywQvsdfeQcI.html
10-11-2020||World||Much at stake as Supreme Court weighs future of ‘Obamacare’||When the Supreme Court weighs the fate of “Obamacare,” arguments will revolve around arcane points of law like severability — whether the justices can surgically snip out part of the law and leave the rest.But what’s at stake has real-world consequences for just about every American, as well as the health care industry, a major source of jobs and tax revenues. Whether the Affordable Care Act stays, goes or is significantly changed will affect the way life is lived in the US. The argument against the law from the Trump administration and conservative states is that the 10-year-old statute was rendered unconstitutional in its entirety when Congress dialed down to zero a penalty on those remaining uninsured. The court has shifted solidly to the political right under President Donald Trump. Here’s a look at some of what’s at stake if the opponents of the law prevail:Covid-19 A NEW PRE-EXISTING CONDITIONBefore the ACA, insurers could turn a person down for an individual policy, or charge them more, based on their medical history. The nonpartisan Kaiser Family Foundation estimates that about 54 million working-age adults have health issues that would have made them “uninsurable” before former President Barack Obama’s signature law.Tens of millions more have issues that could have led to higher premiums. Female gender was one, as insurers routinely charged women more.Covid-19 would become America’s newest pre-existing condition, for more than 10 million people who have tested positive so far.Under the ACA, a coronavirus case cannot be used to deny someone coverage or charge them more. If Obamacare is gone, that becomes a real question.Trump promised to always protect people with preexisting conditions, but never said how he’d do it.COVERAGE FOR MORE THAN 20 MILLIONThe ACA’s two main programs for covering uninsured people would be wiped out if the law is overturned, leaving more than 20 million people uninsured unless a divided Congress can put a new safety net in place.About 12 million low-income people are covered through the health law’s Medicaid expansion, now available in most states. Most of them are adults working in jobs that don’t pay all that much, and don’t come with health insurance. Some have lost jobs in businesses like hotels, restaurants, and movie theaters, which continue to struggle because of the pandemic.Another group, more than 11 million people, has private coverage purchased through taxpayer-subsidized private markets such as HealthCare.govThat’s also in jeopardy.PREVENTIONMost American women now pay nothing out of their own pockets for birth control. That’s covered as a preventive service, free of charge to the patient, under the ACA.Many other services, from colonoscopies to flu shots, are also free.If people again face copays for routine preventive care, that may discourage some to go for tests shown to detect diseases like cancer at early stages when they are easier to treat.RETURN OF A MEDICARE GAP“Obamacare” took the first major steps to close Medicare’s unpopular “doughnut hole,” a coverage gap that used to leave seniors on the hook for hundreds of dollars in prescriptions drug costs. Congress later accelerated the timetable.Repealing the ACA would mean the return of the coverage gap, sure to infuriate older voters, many of whom say their medications still cost too much.That’s just one of many potential consequences to Medicare. The ACA slowed payments to hospitals and insurers to extend the life of the Medicare trust fund.LONGER RUNWAY SHORTENEDOne of the earliest benefits to take effect after the passage of “Obamacare” was a requirement that insurers allow young adults to stay on a parent’s plan until they turned 26.That provided a longer economic runway for millions of young adults, who back then were struggling with the lingering effects of the Great Recession. Nowadays it’s the consequences of the coronavirus economy.Before the ACA’s coverage extension, insurers routinely cut off young adults upon graduation.TAX CUT FOR THE WEALTHY“Obamacare” raised taxes on upper income individuals to help finance its coverage expansion.If the entire law is repealed, that would deliver a tax cut to well-to-do people, many of whom have escaped the economic shock of the Covid-19 pandemic because stock market investors have continued to do well.POLITICAL RUBIK’S CUBEPassing the 900-page-plus ACA was a political challenge that took more than a year at a time when Democrats controlled the White House and both chambers in Congress.Putting together a replacement under a divided government would be the ultimate political puzzle. Neither Democrats nor Republicans agree even within their own ranks what that should look like.President-elect Joe Biden would build on the ACA by improving it and adding a new public health insurance option. But party liberals want a government-run system for all Americans, including the 160 million covered through employer plans.Many Republicans, meanwhile, want to scale back the government’s support for health care. They would make deep cuts to Medicaid financing, and leave the ACA’s insurance markets as a state option. Protections for people with pre-existing conditions could be eroded under new rules.Trump once famously said, “nobody knew health care could be so complicated.” That was in 2017, when he and a Republican-controlled Congress harbored hopes they could “repeal and replace” the ACA.It didn’t happen then because Republicans could never agree on what a replacement would look like.Fast forward to 2020. Health care has only gotten more complicated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/much-at-stake-as-supreme-court-weighs-future-of-obamacare/story-WRICd5CWtvFp2OPqXlBXEI.html
10-11-2020||World||BioNTech to price Covid-19 vaccine below market rates||BioNTech, first in the race to produce evidence of a working Covid-19 vaccine, is planning to price the two-shot regimen below “typical market rates” and would differentiate pricing between countries or regions.Speaking at a Financial Times online event, the German biotech firm’s strategy head Ryan Richardson said the price tag of the vaccine, which is co-developed with Pfizer and which has yet to win regulatory approval, would reflect the financial risks that its private-sector investors have incurred.“We’ve tried to pursue a balanced approach that recognises that innovation requires capital and investment so we plan to price our vaccine well below typical market rates reflecting the situation that we’re in and with the goal to insure broad-based access around the world,” Richardson said at the FT event.“I expect there to be differential pricing in certain regions of the world,” he added, declining to elaborate on the different price tags.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biontech-to-price-covid-19-vaccine-below-market-rates/story-Bu9I5kNykL226okZACZ7qO.html
10-11-2020||World||UK PM cautiously welcomes cheer around Pfizer vaccine||UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson has cautiously welcomed the promising results from the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine and warned people not to rely on this news as a solution as it is still “very, very early days”.Addressing a briefing from 10 Downing Street here on Monday, Johnson urged the British public not to “slacken” their resolve as it is still “very, very early days”, even as he confirmed that the UK had pre-ordered 40 million doses of the Pfizer vaccine – enough for about a third of the UK population, taking into account that two doses each are required.“The Pfizer/BioNTech Vaccine has been tested on over 40,000 volunteers and interim results suggest it is proving 90 per cent effective at protecting people against the virus. But we haven’t yet seen the full safety data, and these findings also need to be peer-reviewed,” said Johnson.“We have talked for a long time, or I have, about the distant bugle of the scientific cavalry coming over the brow of the hill, and tonight that toot of the bugle is louder. But it is still some way off. And we absolutely cannot rely on this as a solution,” he said.He reiterated that it is “crucial” not to overdo things and follow the lockdown rules strictly until December 2, after which England is set to revert to a tiered lockdown system.“We cannot let our enthusiasm (about a vaccine) run away with us. It is more vital now than ever that we follow the basics,” said the prime minister.England’s deputy chief medical officer Prof Jonathan Van-Tam, who joined Johnson at the briefing, said he was “hopeful” that the first vaccine could be seen by Christmas after Pfizer’s announcement earlier on Monday that its vaccine candidate has proven 90 per cent effective in a large trial.“This is a very important scientific breakthrough. I am certain of that. I am hopeful because of all that, but not yet certain that we could begin to see some vaccine by Christmas… I think we have to be optimistic but we have to wait and see how vaccine manufacture goes,” said Prof Van-Tam.“Alas, the death figures are tragically rising, running at an average of over 300 a day – sadly double where they were 24 days ago. The number of Covid-19 patients in hospital has risen from just over 10,000 two weeks ago to nearly 13,000 on November 5, and we are heading towards the levels of the previous peak,” said Johnson, as the experts ran through the statistics with him.Meanwhile, on Tuesday UK Health Secretary Matt Hancock said the National Health Service (NHS) is ready to start providing the new coronavirus vaccine “as fast as safely possible”, with vaccination clinics to be open seven days a week.Hancock told the BBC: “We still appeal this morning for people’s patience, firstly to follow existing rules. Because this is still a deadly disease and this is not over yet.“Even once we start to roll it out, we still need to look after ourselves, look after our community by following the rules and being careful to stop the spread of transmission.” The main focus of Johnson’s briefing on Monday was on the mass testing rolled out in Liverpool on Friday, which the prime minister said were being widely taken up in the city and urged others to also come forward and get tested for “your friends, for your relatives, for your community”.He confirmed that the government is going beyond the city-wide pilot and sending out hundreds of thousands of rapid lateral flow tests to local authorities right across England and other parts of the United Kingdom.“We’re also working with universities to establish, as soon as possible, similar mass testing capacity for students up and down the country,” Johnson added.His comments came as a further 21,350 coronavirus cases were reported in the UK on Monday, along with 194 deaths, taking the country’s death toll towards 49,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-pm-cautiously-welcomes-cheer-around-pfizer-vaccine/story-hggNrKzYt44G3KgeBUjdFJ.html
10-11-2020||World||Covid-19 raises serious questions for Denmark’s mink farmers||Mink farms pose a serious threat to human health in the age of Covid, and will continue to do so even if individual mink mutations of the virus are fought back, according to Kare Molbak, Denmark’s top epidemiologist.The arrival of Covid-19 in the Nordic country was a clear “game changer” for its mink farmers, Molbak told newspaper Politiken in an interview published on Tuesday. Maintaining the industry now “represents far too high a national health risk,” he said.Denmark had planned to cull its entire population of mink -- 17 million animals -- after discovering a new strain of Covid-19 that has the potential to derail global efforts to develop a vaccine. The so-called cluster 5 variant carried in Danish mink led to mutations in the virus pod’s spike protein, which most vaccines target.But this week, the planned cull was shelved after political infighting forced Denmark’s minority government to acknowledge it didn’t have parliament’s support to move ahead. There are even questions as to the legality of its order to exterminate the country’s mink population.For now, farmers across Denmark have halted the mass slaughter, and are only putting down animals that are infected. Before the government was forced to back down, farmers had already culled about 2.5 million mink, according to broadcaster TV2.With political agendas dominating the day, the concern now is that the scientific arguments will get drowned out. Molbak, in his interview with Politiken, voiced his concern over the focus of lawmakers, which he suggested is misplaced.“I think that the issue of cluster 5 has received far too much attention,” he said. Even if the cluster 5 mutation dies out, “there’d be new variants in mink that would spawn equivalent or bigger problems, a cluster 6, 7 or 8.”Molbak says the key question now is whether it’s reasonable to continue farming mink, given the risks.“Our biggest concern since June has been the large reservoir that the mink provide the virus,” he said. “It’s a perfect storm. You have an animal that’s particularly receptive toward the virus and that, at the same time, is kept in large numbers, as is the case in Denmark.”“Mink are very easily infected by the coronavirus, and once it’s there, it spreads at the speed of light,” he said. “We’ve seen how that then spreads to humans. That makes it practically impossible to handle the spread during a pandemic.”For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com©2020 Bloomberg L.P.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-raises-serious-questions-for-denmark-s-mink-farmers/story-VopY0Q75AR3FfUFkPkyioN.html
10-11-2020||World||Covid-19 vaccine will be a game changer, says top German economist||The availability of a vaccine against the coronavirus would be a game changer for Germany’s economy, boosting growth significantly, the head of the Kiel Institute for the World Economy (IfW) said on Tuesday.“An effective vaccine with few side effects changes everything,” Gabriel Felbermayr told Reuters. An aggressive second wave of infections and a new partial lockdown to slow the spread of the disease have clouded the growth outlook in Germany.Germany has closed bars, restaurants, cinemas and gyms for a month until the end of November. Schools and shops remain open under certain conditions.Felbermayr said if, in a first step, a vaccine could protect vulnerable groups of people, many cultural activities could resume and restaurants and hotels could re-open. It would be possible to ease restrictions as much as over the summer, he said.Once 50-60% of the German population are vaccinated, all restrictions could be lifted, Felbermayr said.Pfizer
10-11-2020||World||Putin brokers deal to end Karabakh war, brings Turkey into Russian Caucasus||Russian President Vladimir Putin brokered a deal to end a 44-day war over the contested region of Nagorno-Karabakh after Armenians, facing defeat at the hands of the Azerbaijani army, agreed to stop fighting and withdraw their forces.Russia began deploying nearly 2,000 troops as peacekeepers on Tuesday under the accord struck with Armenian Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan and Azerbaijani President Ilham Aliyev that will create conditions “for a long-term and complete settlement of the crisis around Nagorno-Karabakh,” Putin said in a televised statement.Though he’s not a signatory to the deal, the agreement also represents a strategic triumph for Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, whose vocal support of Azerbaijan in the fighting has allowed him to muscle into Russia’s Caucasus backyard. Aliyev said Turkish troops will join the Russian peacekeeping mission in a televised address to the nation early Tuesday.The peace accord also gives Erdogan potential land access across southern Armenia to Azerbaijan and the resources-rich republics of central Asia for the first time, even as Turkey rejects diplomatic relations with its Armenian neighbor and keeps their joint border closed.The pact effectively sidelines the US and France, enabling Putin and Erdogan to dominate talks on the terms of any future settlement between Armenia and Azerbaijan. Russia, France and the US tried and failed for decades as international mediators to persuade the two sides to reach a peace agreement after Moscow brokered a 1994 truce to halt a war that killed 30,000 and displaced 1 million amid the collapse of the Soviet Union.“We got what we wanted,” Aliyev said in his TV address, in which he mocked Pashinyan for accepting “capitulation” in the war. “We forced them” to peace, he said.“For Putin it’s the best deal under the circumstances given our reluctance and inability to fight the war on Armenia’s side,” said Vladimir Frolov, a former Russian diplomat who’s now a foreign policy analyst in Moscow. “It keeps a functioning relationship with Erdogan while avoiding a major fight.”The pact provides for Armenians in Nagorno-Karabakh to have secure access to Armenia across a land corridor through Azerbaijani territory that will be policed by Russian forces. It also allows people in the Azerbaijani exclave of Naxcivan bordering Turkey to travel across southern Armenia to Azerbaijan, again with Russian security on the ground.It was “an extremely difficult decision” to accept the deal to halt the war, Pashinyan said in a Facebook post. “I made that decision as a result of a deep analysis of the military situation,” he said, after Armenian officials acknowledged they’d lost control of a key city just 10 kilometers (6 miles) from Nagorno-Karabakh’s capital, Stepanakert, to Azerbaijan.“It’s not a victory,” Pashinyan wrote. “But there’s no defeat unless you consider yourself to be the loser.”Protests erupted in the streets of the Armenian capital, Yerevan, after news of the agreement emerged. Demonstrators broke into the parliament and angry crowds gathered outside the government building and Pashinyan’s official residence, accusing him of betraying the country.Armenian President Armen Sarkissian, who has a largely ceremonial role, signalled tensions with Pashinyan by saying that he’d only learned about the deal through media reports. There was no “discussion on this document with me,” Sarkissian said in a statement calling for immediate political consultations “at this crucial moment of national preservation.”The agreement to halt the fighting that broke out September 27 sets out a timetable for Armenian withdrawal from occupied Azerbaijani districts outside Nagorno-Karabakh in stages by December 1, effectively restoring Azerbaijan’s control of most of the territory it lost in the 1990s. It also provides for exchanges of prisoners and the return of refugees, while saying nothing about the final status of the disputed enclave.The deal came after Azerbaijani forces took control of the city of Shusha, which is called Shushi by Armenians, on Sunday, putting them on the outskirts of Stepanakert. The government there, backed by Armenia, had warned that the loss of Shushi would lead to the fall of the entire region.“I don’t know what assessment history will give to this decision but we were forced to take it,” Nagorno-Karabakh President Arayik Harutyunyan said, adding that Azerbaijani troops were 2-3 kilometers from Stepanakert.The two sides have been fighting for more than six weeks over the enclave and seven surrounding regions taken by Armenians in the 1990s, which are internationally recognized as part of Azerbaijan. More than 5,000 people have been killed in the latest conflict, according to Russian officials.Azerbaijan said it fought to restore control over its territory. Armenia said it was defending Nagorno-Karabakh’s right to self-determination after its Armenian majority voted for independence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/putin-brokers-deal-to-end-karabakh-war-brings-turkey-into-russian-caucasus/story-1uIu6QY17Dc0XDiXpkpD1K.html
10-11-2020||World||US allows emergency use of pharmaceutical company’s Covid antibody treatment||The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved an emergency use authorisation (EUA) for American pharmaceutical company Eli Lilly’s experimental Covid-19 antibody treatment called ‘bamlanivimab’ for non-hospitalised patients with mild-to-moderate symptoms.“The FDA’s emergency authorisation of bamlanivimab provides health care professionals on the frontline of this pandemic with another potential tool in treating Covid-19 patients,” said Patrizia Cavazzoni, M.D., acting director of the FDA’s Center for Drug Evaluation and Research in press statement. While giving the EUA, the US administration specified that emergency use is different than FDA approval.”In determining whether to issue a EUA, the FDA evaluates the available evidence and carefully balances any known or potential risks with any known or potential benefits of the product for use during an emergency,” the statement said.While the safety and effectiveness of this investigational therapy continue to be evaluated, bamlanivimab was shown in clinical trials to reduce Covid-19-related hospitalisation or emergency room visits in patients at high risk for disease progression within 28 days after treatment when compared to placebo, it added.According to the FDA, the investigational drug could be effective for the treatment of mild to moderate Covid-19 cases in adults and children who are 12 years of age and older and who are at risk of needing hospitalisation.Eli Lilly and Company said that the FDA’s decision was a crucial development in the fight against the coronavirus.”Today’s emergency use authorisation for Lilly’s investigational #Covid19 antibody is a key moment in the fight against this disease. There’s more work to be done, but we’re proud of this contribution to the global effort to beat Covid-19,” the Eli Lilly and Company tweeted.FDA said the company will now pass bamlanivimab to authorised distributors who will then supply health care facilities with the new treatment, as directed by the US government and in collaboration with local authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-allows-emergency-use-of-pharmaceutical-company-s-covid-antibody-treatment/story-VOmL1ruUEMCvq0URp8OU1K.html
10-11-2020||World||Singapore may get first shipment of Covid-19 vaccine early next year: Report||Singapore may get the first shipment of a Covid-19 vaccine, co-developed by Singapore researchers along with US pharmaceutical company Arcturus Therapeutics Holdings Inc, early next year, according to a media report on Tuesday. Singapore’s Economic Development Board (EDB) is pumping in some USD45 million into the manufacture of the vaccine, The Straits Times reported. EDB will also have the right to purchase up to USD 175 million of the vaccine at pre-negotiated prices, with shipments expected to begin in the first quarter of 2021, said Arcturus Therapeutics, the American pharmaceutical company working with Duke-National University of Singapore (NUS) scientists on the vaccine. Duke-NUS Medical School’s Professor Ooi Eng Eong, who had co-developed the vaccine with Arcturus, said the results so far show that the vaccine could be effective as a single dose. “This differentiates this investigational vaccine from many other Covid-19 vaccines in development,” Prof Ooi, who is also a member of Arcturus’ Vaccine Platform Scientific Advisory Board, was quoted as saying. “The vaccine has the potential to provide important public health benefits by greatly facilitating broad administration across multiple populations worldwide,” said Prof Ooi. Meanwhile, Singapore reported nine new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, bringing the country’s infection tally to 58,073.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/singapore-may-get-first-shipment-of-covid-19-vaccine-early-next-year-report/story-TPXZwXl5eeNFOn5x9DPoIJ.html
10-11-2020||World||EU tariffs on US-made-jets may affect Ryanair’s max order||Supply Lines is a daily newsletter that tracks Covid-19’s impact on trade. Sign up here, and subscribe to our Covid-19 podcast for the latest news and analysis on the pandemic.Ryanair Holdings Plc’s long-delayed Boeing Co. 737 Max deliveries face a new hurdle after the European Union opted to apply tariffs to US-made aircraft.The European bloc said Monday it would levy 15% tariffs on US jets, alongside other goods including wheat, cheese, tobacco and spirits. Dublin-based Ryanair, the continent’s biggest discount carrier, has more than 135 Max 200 jets on order, and has previously said it intends to take delivery of as many as 30 next year, once the model is cleared to fly following its 2019 grounding.Unlike other carriers that have deferred aircraft purchases to conserve cash amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Ryanair has said it expects to receive its first Max plane early in the new year. The airline has about 4.5 billion euros ($5.3 billion) in cash, and wholly owns 80% of its fleet, the carrier said in a statement last week.Boeing has over 300 pending orders for planes with airlines in the EU. Those include British Airways, which has 10 787s and 18 777Xs pending, while Deutsche Lufthansa AG has 20 787s and 20 777Xs due.Boeing is likely to step in to make sure the move doesn’t impact its bumper order, according to Richard Aboulafia, an aerospace analyst with Teal Group.“There’s no way Ryanair is going to pay these tariffs in the current environment,” he said by phone. “Boeing’s going to have to figure out how to resolve this, either by convincing the new administration to settle the case or paying the 15% for Ryanair.”Counter PunchThe EU decision represents a counter punch to the US placing tariffs on $7.5 billion of European goods after Washington won a World Trade Organization case against aid to Airbus SE. Last month, in a parallel 16-year-old lawsuit, the EU received final WTO permission to slap $4 billion of duties on American products over subsidies to Boeing.Airbus welcomed the EU decision to impose tariffs on US imports. The planemaker “supports all necessary actions to create a level-playing field and continues to support the EU’s commitment to finding a negotiated settlement of this long-standing dispute,” a spokesman said in a statement.Ryanair Chief Executive Officer Michael O’Leary has previously said discussions are ongoing with Boeing for a follow-on order for new planes. Ryanair declined to comment, as did IAG SA, the parent company of British Airways.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-tariffs-on-us-made-jets-may-affect-ryanair-s-max-order/story-V8DNrdnmZLENcBh9rtDwCP.html
10-11-2020||World||UK vaccine chief to step down at year-end, Hancock says||The head of Britain’s Covid-19 vaccine taskforce will step down at the end of the year and her departure is not related to criticism over a 670,000 pound ($881,000) public relations bill, the health minister said. Health Secretary Matt Hancock said Kate Bingham had always been due to leave at the end of the year after accepting a 6-month contract.Bingham, who normally leads biotech investments, has been criticised after the Sunday Times reported that she used eight full-time consultants from London PR agency Admiral Associates to oversee her media strategy. “It was always a six month job and she was always clear that she couldn’t do it for longer than that,” Hancock told Times Radio.Bingham, who was appointed chair of the taskforce on May 16, was not immediately available for comment. Under Bingham’s leadership, the taskforce has secured supply deals for more than 350 million doses of six different Covid-19 vaccine candidates, including the Pfizer shot which is leading the race following positive trial data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-vaccine-chief-to-step-down-at-year-end-hancock-says/story-VUTOmmXOaozXphHSSnPKeP.html
10-11-2020||World||Covid-19 vaccine will be optional in Britain: Minister||People in Britain will be able to decide whether they want to have the coronavirus vaccine or not, health minister Matt Hancock said on Tuesday, adding that children will not need to be vaccinated. “We’re not proposing to make this compulsory, not least because I think the vast majority people are going to want to have it,” Hancock told BBC TV on Tuesday.“This is not for children and children have a very low susceptibility to coronavirus,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-vaccine-will-be-optional-in-britain-minister/story-VmONtCEjymn70fNKOmKm4M.html
10-11-2020||World||UK PM Johnson suffers heavy defeat in House of Lords on treaty-breaking Brexit laws||Prime Minister Boris Johnson suffered a heavy defeat in parliament’s upper chamber on Monday over proposed laws which would allow him to breach Britain’s EU exit treaty - a plan that has been criticised by US president elect Joe Biden.The Internal Market Bill is designed to protect trade between Britain’s four nations after Brexit. It contains clauses ministers say are needed to protect Northern Ireland’s delicate status as part of the United Kingdom, but would also break international law in a “specific and limited” way.The House of Lords voted to strip those clauses from the bill in a series of defeats for the ruling Conservative Party. The government does not have a majority in the Lords and even some high-profile Conservative members opposed the clauses. “The government should see sense, accept the removal of these offending clauses, and start to rebuild our international reputation,” said Angela Smith, the opposition Labour Party’s leader in the Lords. Far from backing down, however, the government said it would retable the contentious clauses when the bill returns to the House of Commons, where it had previously passed by 340 votes to 256.“We’ve been consistently clear that the clauses represent a legal safety net to protect the integrity of the UK’s internal market and the huge gains of the (Northern Ireland) peace process,” a spokeswoman said.The publication of the bill in September provoked criticism with some saying it would wreck Britain’s international standing. Biden tweeted on Sept. 16 that anything which endangered the peace accord between the Irish republic and Northern Ireland would threaten Anglo-American trade.Johnson says the clauses are there to act as a safety net in case ongoing negotiations with the EU fail to work out how goods can flow between Britain, the British province of Northern Ireland, and across the open border with EU member Ireland. Many instead saw the bill as a negotiating gambit to win concessions from the EU in trade negotiations. Brussels has launched legal action against Britain over the proposals.“EU cannot ratify a new deal while UK is legislating to break a previous agreement,” Irish foreign minister Simon Coveney said on Twitter. “Trust & Good Faith Matters.” The final wording of the bill has to be agreed by both houses, and typically the unelected Lords does not permanently block laws supported by the directly elected House of Commons.However, the clauses may no longer be needed if talks with the EU on how to make the Irish border work are successful.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-pm-johnson-suffers-heavy-defeat-in-house-of-lords-on-treaty-breaking-brexit-laws/story-tiSbh4HjUaF4XomgK26gBM.html
10-11-2020||World||Brazil suspends Sinovac Covid-19 vaccine trial due to severe adverse event||Brazil’s health regulator has suspended a clinical trial for China’s Sinovac coronavirus vaccine citing a severe adverse event, surprising the trial organisers who countered there had been a death but it was unrelated to the vaccine.The health regulator, Anvisa, said on Monday the event occurred on Oct. 29 but did not specify if it took place in Brazil or in another country. It also did not give an indication of how long the suspension might last.The trial is one of three large late-stage trials underway for the Sinovac vaccine. The vaccine has, however, faced controversy in Brazil with President Jair Bolsonaro dismissing it as lacking credibility.The setback to Sinovac’s efforts contrasts with good news from Pfizer Inc which said its experimental Covid-19 vaccine is more than 90% effective based on initial trial results.Dimas Covas, the head of Sao Paulo’s medical research institute Butantan which is conducting the Sinovac trial, said the regulator’s decision was related to a death but added he found it strange “because it’s a death unrelated to the vaccine.”“As there are more than 10,000 volunteers at this moment, deaths can occur... It’s a death that has no relation with the vaccine and as such it is not the moment to interrupt the trials,” Covas told local broadcaster TV Cultura.Butantan plans to hold a news conference on Tuesday at 11 a.m. local time (1400 GMT).Sinovac said in a statement on its website on Tuesday it was confident in the safety of its vaccine and will continue to communicate with Brazil on the matter. It has previously said it expects interim results of late-stage trials this year.BOLSONARO’S OPPOSITIONIt is not uncommon for clinical trials to be suspended temporarily - sometimes for as short as a week - after a volunteer dies or takes ill so that trial organisers can check whether it is related to the drug being tested.Sinovac’s vaccine is among the three experimental Covid-19 vaccines that China has been using to inoculate hundreds of thousands of people under an emergency use programme. A Chinese health official said on Oct. 20 that serious side effects have not been observed in clinical trials.The Sinovac vaccine has, however, been dismissed by Bolsonaro, who regularly expresses anti-Chinese sentiment and has previously said the federal government will not buy the vaccine.Earlier on Monday he appeared to row back on those comments, saying the government would buy any vaccines that were approved by the Health Ministry and regulator Anvisa.Even so, Bolsonaro’s stance has set a clear political battleline with the Governor of Sao Paulo, Joao Doria, who has said his state will both import the vaccine and produce it, with work having begun on a plant capable of producing 100 million doses a year.Doria, who is widely expected to challenge Bolsonaro at the next presidential election in 2022, has said a public inoculation program in Sao Paulo with the Sinovac vaccine would likely be rolled out as early as January.Sinovac is also hoping to supply its experimental coronavirus vaccine to more South American countries by outsourcing some manufacturing procedures to Butantan.Late stage trials are also being conducted in Indonesia and Turkey. Indonesia’s state-owned Bio Farma said on Tuesday that its Sinovac vaccine trials were “going smoothly”.Brazil has the second deadliest coronavirus outbreak outside the United States, with over 160,000 dead and more than 5.6 million confirmed cases.Four vaccines are being tested in Brazil seeking Anvisa approval, including those developed by Oxford University/AstraZeneca Plc and Johnson & Johnson’s pharmaceutical subsidiary Janssen.Pfizer’s vaccine, developed in partnership with BioNTech SE , is undergoing late-stage tests involving 3,100 volunteers in Sao Paulo and Bahia states.Worldwide, there are at least 10 vaccine candidates in late-stage clinical trials, according to the World Health Organization. Four of them are from China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brazil-suspends-sinovac-covid-19-vaccine-trial-due-to-severe-adverse-event/story-pW9y3cZmmEARgZfVwUKn7L.html
10-11-2020||World||China turns up heat on internet giants with antitrust rules||China on Tuesday laid out detailed regulations for the first time to root out monopolistic practices in the internet industry, as Beijing seeks to curtail the growing dominance of corporations like Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. and Tencent Holdings Ltd.The country’s antitrust watchdog is seeking feedback on a raft of regulations that establish a framework for curbing anti-competitive behavior such as colluding on sharing sensitive consumer data, alliances that squeeze out smaller rivals and subsidizing services at below cost to eliminate competitors. They may also require companies that operate a so-called Variable Interest Entity -- a vehicle through which virtually every major Chinese internet company attracts foreign investment and lists overseas -- to apply for specific operating approval.Alibaba and Tencent were both down more than 4% in Hong Kong, hurt also by a broader tech selloff. JD.com Inc. dived as much as 8.9%, its steepest intraday fall on record. And Meituan was down more than 12%, the biggest intraday decline since November 2018.“This is a watershed moment,” said Ma Chen, a Beijing-based partner at Han Kun Law Offices who specializes in antitrust. Chinese regulators “are stepping up control because these platform companies have become too powerful and touch upon all corners of life.”The rules also restrict targeting specific customers through their online behavior, a common practice adopted by players both at home and abroad. Under the regulations unveiled by the State Administration of Market Regulation, violators may be forced to divest assets, intellectual property or technologies, open up their infrastructure and adjust their algorithms.The latest proposal follows heightened scrutiny of technology companies worldwide, as regulators investigate the extent to which internet giants from Facebook Inc. to Alphabet Inc.’s Google can leverage their dominance. Consumers in China -- home to some of the world’s largest corporations from e-commerce giant Alibaba to WeChat-operator Tencent -- have in recent years protested against the gradual erosion of their privacy via technology from facial recognition to big data analysis.Beijing is increasingly seeking to diminish the influence that a handful of its tech corporations wield over vast swathes of the economy. It investigated Tencent’s music arm’s exclusive agreements with publishers last year, and most recently modified regulations to rein in risk at fast-growing micro-lending entities such as Ant Group Co. The latter step derailed Ant’s planned IPO last week, before it was to complete what would have been the world’s largest such offering on record.Alibaba and Tencent now dominate e-commerce and gaming, and are key backers of leaders in adjacent businesses such as food delivery giant Meituan and car-hailing leader Didi Chuxing. They’ve together invested billions of dollars in hundreds of up-and-coming mobile and internet companies, gaining kingmaker status in the world’s largest smartphone and internet arena by users. Companies like TikTok-owner ByteDance Ltd. and Tencent-rival NetEase Corp. that have risen to prominence without backing from either of the pair are viewed as rare exceptions. In other areas, Baidu Inc. dominates online search.The new rules were proposed in accordance with China’s Anti-Monopoly Law, which included broad language governing internet companies in January for the first time. The watchdog will seek public feedback on the regulations till Nov. 30.Ma said the specific regulation pertaining to VIEs requiring approval should be of concern to much of the industry as well. The model has never been formally endorsed by Beijing but has been used by tech titans such as Alibaba to list their shares overseas. Under the structure, Chinese corporations transfer profits to an offshore entity with shares that foreign investors can then own. Pioneered by Sina Corp. and its investment bankers during a 2000 initial public offering, the VIE framework rests on shaky legal ground and foreign investors have been nervous about their bets unwinding overnight.“It will not only have a huge impact on Alibaba but also all the companies that use a platform business model and a VIE structure,” Ma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-turns-up-heat-on-internet-giants-with-antitrust-rules/story-vPM0hLUGm0iobI1cYJXAjI.html
10-11-2020||World||Spain to get first Pfizer vaccines in early 2021, Health Minister says||Spain would get the first vaccines developed by U.S. pharmaceutical giant Pfizer
10-11-2020||World||Taliban asks Joe Biden to stick to US troop withdrawal deal||Afghanistan’s insurgent Taliban on Tuesday called on the incoming administration of US President-elect Joe Biden to stick to the February agreement to withdraw US troops.The United States has been pulling out troops under the deal which envisages the withdrawal to be complete by May, subject to certain security guarantees, while the Taliban holds peace talks with the Afghan government in Doha. “The Islamic Emirate would like to stress to the new American president-elect and future administration that implementation of the agreement is the most reasonable and effective tool for ending the conflict between both our countries,” the militant group said in a statement, its first substantive comment on the results of the United States presidential election.However, violence has been ramping up throughout the country with the Taliban attacking provincial capitals, in some case prompting United States airstrikes, as talks in Qatar’s capital have been mired in delays. Groups such as the United Nations have also raised questions over Al Qaeda with a senior U.N. official telling the BBC last month that the group were still “heavily embedded” with the Taliban.Outgoing US President Donald Trump had made ending the war in Afghanistan a major campaign promise and had said in a Tweet in October that troops could be out of Afghanistan by Christmas, though officials such as his national security advisor have said that they were working to the May 2021 deadline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-call-on-joe-biden-to-stick-to-us-troop-withdrawal-deal/story-XFTCCs0UmpQjvWExESNt5N.html
10-11-2020||World||Aung San Suu Kyi’s ruling party claims resounding election win in Myanmar||Myanmar’s ruling party claimed a resounding victory on Monday in the country’s second parliamentary election since the end of strict military rule, based on its own unofficial tally of votes.Sunday’s election was viewed as a referendum on the fledgling democratic government led by Aung San Suu Kyi and her ruling National League for Democracy (NLD), which remains very popular at home but has seen its overseas reputation battered by accusations of genocide against the Rohingya Muslim minority.NLD spokesman Myo Nyunt told Reuters it had won many more than the 322 seats in parliament needed to form a government, based on data compiled from reports by party agents at polling stations nationwide, though he gave no specific estimate.“For the people, for the party, this is such an encouraging election result,” he said, adding that the NLD expected to exceed the total of 390 seats it won in its 2015 landslide win.The Election Commission had been expected to release results on Monday but had only published a handful by the evening, as candidates and parties posted their own data online. Up for grabs were 315 seats in the 425-member lower house and 161 seats in the 217-seat upper house of parliament.A spokesman for the second biggest party, the military-backed Union Solidarity and Development Party (USDP), could not immediately be reached for comment.In separate statements, the European Union and Britain commended Myanmar on the polls but criticised the disenfranchisement of more than a million voters, including hundreds of thousands of Rohingya Muslims in Rakhine state.Some unable to voteThe military, which ruled Myanmar for nearly 50 years until it began withdrawing from civilian politics in 2011, controls a quarter of seats in both houses of parliament under a constitution it drew up and which Suu Kyi wants to amend.The NLD had been expected to win but with a smaller margin following the emergence of new parties and ethnic minority parties gaining support in some regions.Political analyst Yan Myo Thein said early results showed ethnic parties had won some seats in Kayah, Mon, and Shan states, where many people harbour grievances against the central government but the overall picture was of another NLD landslide.The results, he said, “show that the majority of people don’t want… the involvement of the military in politics and the majority of people still continue to recognize and support Aung San Suu Kyi, the leader of the NLD, as their leader.”In contrast to the wave of optimism that greeted the NLD’s 2015 win, Myanmar held this election amid a surge in Covid-19 infections, economic hardships and escalating ethnic conflicts. More than a million people were unable to vote after polls were cancelled due to insurgencies.In Rakhine state, where Rohingya Muslims are confined to camps and villages and mostly denied the vote because they are not citizens, the vast majority of polling stations were closed due to fighting between government troops and ethnic insurgents.Myo Kyaw, general secretary of the Arakan League for Democracy (ALD), said the Rakhine nationalist Arakan National Party (ANP) had won most seats contested in the state.The Democracy and Human Rights Party, a Rohingya party, said in a statement it was “utterly disappointed” that its people had been disenfranchised.The government does not consider most Rohingya Myanmar citizens but migrants from neighbouring Bangladesh even though many can trace family roots back many generations.The United Nations has said there was genocidal intent in a 2017 army crackdown that forced 730,000 Rohingya to flee to Bangladesh. Myanmar says its security forces were carrying out legitimate operations against Rohingya militants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/aung-san-suu-kyi-s-ruling-party-claims-resounding-election-win-in-myanmar/story-tOW4gyLlK66jw1KeN5jRDL.html
10-11-2020||World||US president-elect Joe Biden defends health care law as high court mulls its fate||President-elect Joe Biden is championing the Obama administration’s signature health law as it goes before the Supreme Court in a case that could overturn it.He will deliver a speech on the Affordable Care Act on Tuesday, the same day the high court will hear arguments on its merits. It ruled eight years ago to leave the essential components of the law known as Obamacare intact, but is now controlled 6-3 by a conservative majority after President Donald Trump’s appointment of Justice Amy Coney Barrett.The speech reflects the importance Biden is putting on health care as he prepares to take office in January amid the worst pandemic in more than a century. He’s launching his transition process this week as the virus surges across the country. The US surpassed 10 million cases Monday.Biden also focused on health care Monday as he pleaded with Americans to put aside their political differences and wear masks to protect themselves and their neighbours from the virus.“We could save tens of thousands of lives if everyone would just wear a mask for the next few months. Not Democratic or Republican lives, American lives,” Biden said. “Please, I implore you, wear a mask.”The suit challenging the health care law was brought in America’s largest conservative state, Texas, and is backed by Trump and top Republicans. It asks the Supreme Court to declare the law’s mandate to buy health insurance unconstitutional because Congress had previously repealed the penalties for non compliance.After serving as President Barack Obama’s vice president for eight years, Biden has pledged to build on the Affordable Care Act while championing a “public option” that would allow more people to opt into government-sponsored health insurance even as millions of others could stick with their current, usually employer-based coverage.But such changes could be difficult to enact if Democrats fail to win a majority in the Senate. Control of the chamber hinges on two run-off races in Georgia that will be decided in January.Biden, meanwhile, is moving forward with planning a presidential transition even as Trump refuses to concede the race and falsely argues it was stolen from him.The president-elect is expected to quickly name a chief of staff and start considering Cabinet appointments, though those likely won’t be finalized for weeks.But he’s running into hurdles from the General Services Administration, which is tasked with formally recognizing Biden as president-elect. That designation eases cooperation between the outgoing and incoming administrations. The agency’s Trump-appointed administrator, Emily Murphy, has not started the process and has given no guidance on when she will.That lack of clarity is fueling questions about whether Trump will spend as much of his remaining time in office as possible hindering Biden from building out his government. Biden has so far largely ignored Trump and instead called for bipartisanship — but he may not be able to keep doing so for much longer.“This election is over,” Biden said during his speech Monday. “It’s time to put aside the partisanship, and the rhetoric that is designed to demonize one another.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-president-elect-joe-biden-defends-health-care-law-as-high-court-mulls-its-fate/story-HNVvshQBABGnaRZ261PjfN.html
10-11-2020||World||Trump challenges Pennsylvania voting, ropes in attorney general||President Donald Trump’s re-election campaign on Monday filed a lawsuit in Pennsylvania, the tipping point state that gave President-elect Joe Biden the 2020 elections, challenging its “two-track” voting system and his attorney general William Barr authorised an investigation into “substantial allegations” of irregularities.Trump has refused to accept the outcome of the election called for Biden unanimously by media outlets, not conceded the election and continued to file lawsuits. Biden, who has sought to move on declaring the “election is over”, has continued to increase his victory margin in Pennsylvania, which along with key swing states, propelled him to victory.“Voters in Pennsylvania were held to different standards simply based on how they chose to cast their ballot, and we believe this two-tiered election system resulted in potentially fraudulent votes being counted without proper verification or oversight, as well as many voters being disenfranchised simply for casting their votes in-person,” said Matt Morgan, Trump 2020 campaign general counsel, announcing the lawsuit.Trump’s lawsuit contends that those who voted by mail were not subjected to the same rigorous scrutiny as those who voted in person, and this resulted “in two Constitutional violations: 1) Equal Protection Clause violation, and 2) Elections and Electors Clauses violation”.The Trump campaign has also sought recount of votes in Wisconsin and Georgia. The former is a state Trump won in 2016 but where he is trailing by more than 20,000 votes, and the latter is a solidly Republican state that last voted for a Democrat in 1992 and now has the president-elect ahead by 11,000 votes.Recounts are legitimate and matter. But in the 2000 recount, the best known one that is being discussed widely now, the initial winner, President George W Bush, had prevailed.President Trump is determined to make a fight of it though. “We will not stop fighting for transparency and integrity in our electoral process and ensuring all Americans can trust in the results of a free and fair election” Morgan, the campaign counsel, added.Attorney General Barr joined in Monday with instruction to US attorneys, according to a memo obtained and cited by Associated Press, that investigations “may be conducted if there are clear and apparently credible allegations of irregularities that, if true, could potentially impact the outcome of a federal election in an individual state”.Barr has acquired the reputation of a pliable attorney general who has reduced the office to serve as a lawyer to the president. But his memo was seen as an attempt to please the president while, at the same time, leave enough room for doubt through carefully worded caveats.President Trump’s efforts to discredit the election suffered another setback when a body of international election observers invited by his administration reported no irregularities in the elections.“While the OAS (Organization of American States) Mission has not directly observed any serious irregularities that call into question the results so far, it supports the right of all contesting parties in an election, to seek redress before the competent legal authorities when they believe they have been wronged,” the report said. “It is critical however, that candidates act responsibly by presenting and arguing legitimate claims before the courts, not unsubstantiated or harmful speculation in the public media.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-challenges-pennsylvania-voting-ropes-in-attorney-general/story-4GgdhVrILQLxK3amEBA6tK.html
10-11-2020||World||China vaccine trial halted in Brazil after serious adverse event||The final-stage trial of a Chinese frontrunner vaccine candidate has been halted in Brazil due to a serious adverse event, the first time that any of the Asian nation’s rapidly developed Covid-19 shots have met with such a setback.Testing of Sinovac Biotech Ltd.’s vaccine, called Coronavac, has been halted in Brazil after an event that occurred on Oct. 29, said the Brazil Health Agency on Tuesday, without any further detail on the illness. The study is interrupted in accordance with regulations while the agency analyzes if the study should continue, it said.Serious adverse events that occur in drug trials include death, immediate risk of death, long term or serious incapacitation, and hospitalization.Such pauses are not uncommon in large-scale drug trials and two western developers - AstraZeneca Plc and Johnson & Johnson -- have paused their vaccine trials in recent months due to serious adverse events, only to re-start them after investigation.But China has already started administering its vaccines, including Coronavac, to hundreds of thousands of people under an expansive emergency use approval, making the prospect of a safety issue being detected at this stage more concerning.China Defends Giving Experimental Vaccines to ThousandsLast month, China’s science ministry said its companies have inoculated about 60,000 volunteers in final-stage trials, but there have been no reports of serious adverse events. Sinovac’s company representative did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the Brazil trial pause.Chinese vaccine developers have been at the forefront of the global race to create an effective immunization against the virus. The push has taken on vital importance as countries look to move beyond Covid-19 and more definitively re-open their economies.Vaccine development processes that usually take years have been compressed into months by global players, encouraged by politicians wanting a quick fix to the pandemic that has sickened more than 50 million.The Chinese setback comes as Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE released early findings showing that a vaccine they are developing prevented more than 90% of symptomatic infections in the trial of tens of thousands of volunteers, boosting hope for a quick neutralization of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-vaccine-trial-halted-in-brazil-after-serious-adverse-event/story-tKE1z5y93bF3l0IVHpxegN.html
10-11-2020||World||Joe Biden acts on Covid plan with task force||President-elect Joe Biden, who has announced a team to shape his Covid-19 plan, on Monday called Pfizer’s announcement of vaccine test success as “excellent news” but said masks remained a “more potent weapon against the virus”.Biden, who had made fighting the pandemic his top priority, named a 13-member advisory board on Sunday to “shape my approach to managing” the surge in cases and the search for vaccine. It is co-chaired by former Surgeon General Vivek Murthy, former head of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) David Kessler and Yale School of Medicine’s Marcella Nunez-Smith.Biden’s transition team was informed of Pfizer’s vaccine, which the company said has proven to be 90% effective, just hours later. “Last night, my public health advisors were informed of this excellent news,” he said on Monday. “I congratulate the brilliant women and men who helped produce this breakthrough and to give us such cause for hope.”But he cautioning the end of the battle against Covid-19 was “still months away”. It will be “many more months” before a vaccine is widely available. This is why, he said, citing Centers for Disease Prevention Director Robert Redfield, “for the foreseeable future, a mask remains a more potent weapon against the virus than the vaccine”.“Today’s news does not change this urgent reality. Americans will have to rely on masking, distancing, contact tracing, hand washing, and other measures to keep themselves safe well into next year. Today’s news is great news, but it doesn’t change that fact.”Biden had withstood ridicule for his use of masks and strict adherence to social distancing norms during the campaign.President Trump, who has not conceded the election and is challenging the outcome, welcomed the announcement in a tweet in all-caps: “STOCK MARKET UP BIG, VACCINE COMING SOON. REPORT 90% EFFECTIVE. SUCH GREAT NEWS!”Vice-President Mike Pence, who leads the White House task force on Covid, was equally effusive. “Thanks to the public-private partnership forged by President @realDonaldTrump, @Pfizer announced its Coronavirus Vaccine trial is EFFECTIVE, preventing infection in 90% of its volunteers,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-acts-on-covid-plan-with-task-force/story-tOyHp5mCgWlYITjObLhXnI.html
10-11-2020||World||Behind Covid vaccine, a couple with shared passion for cancer research||Positive data on BioNTech and US partner Pfizer Inc’s Covid-19 vaccine is an unlikely success for the married couple behind the German biotech firm, who have devoted their lives to harnessing the immune system against cancer.Pfizer said on Monday said its experimental vaccine was more than 90% effective in preventing Covid-19 based on initial data from a large study.From humble roots as the son of a Turkish immigrant working at a Ford factory in Cologne, BioNTech chief executive Ugur Sahin, 55, now figures among the 100 richest Germans, together with his wife and fellow board member Oezlem Tuereci, 53, according to weekly Welt am Sonntag.The market value of Nasdaq-listed BioNTech, which the pair co-founded, ballooned to $21 billion as of Friday’s close from $4.6 billion a year ago, with the firm set to play a major role in mass immunisation against the coronavirus.“Despite his achievements, he never changed from being incredibly humble and personable,” said Matthias Kromayer, board member of venture capital firm MIG AG, whose funds have backed BioNTech since its inception in 2008. He added Sahin would typically walk into business meetings wearing jeans and carrying his signature bicycle helmet and backpack with him.Doggedly pursuing his childhood dream of studying medicine and becoming a physician, Sahin worked at teaching hospitals in Cologne and the southwestern city of Homburg, where he met Tuereci during his early academic career. Medical research and oncology became a shared passion. Tuereci, the daughter of a Turkish physician who had migrated to Germany, said in a media interview that even on the day of their wedding, both made time for lab work.Together they honed in on the immune system as a potential ally in the fight against cancer and tried to address the unique genetic makeup of each tumour.Founded in 2008, BioNTech pursued a much broader range of cancer immunotherapy tools. That included mRNA, a versatile messenger substance to send genetic instructions into cells.The BioNTech story took a twist when Sahin in January came across a scientific paper on a new coronavirus outbreak in the Chinese city of Wuhan and it struck him how small the step was from anti-cancer mRNA drugs to mRNA-based viral vaccines.BioNTech quickly assigned about 500 staff to project “light speed” to work on several possible compounds, winning pharma giant Pfizer and Chinese drugmaker Fosun as partners in March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/behind-covid-vaccine-a-couple-with-shared-passion-for-cancer-research/story-dUV9Z9Ndv8msRC49delHiJ.html
10-11-2020||World||China, Russia hold off on hailing Biden’s victory as Trump digs in||China and Russia held off congratulating US President-elect Joe Biden on Monday, with Bejing saying it would follow usual custom in its response and the Kremlin noting incumbent Donald Trump’s vow to pursue legal challenges.Democrat Biden clinched enough states to win the presidency on Saturday and has begun making plans for when he takes office on January 20. Trump has not conceded defeat and plans rallies to build support for legal challenges.Some of the United States’ biggest and closest allies in Europe, the Middle East and Asia, including India, quickly congratulated Biden over the weekend despite Trump’s refusal to concede, as did some Trump allies, including Israel and Saudi Arabia.“We noticed that Mr Biden has declared election victory,” China’s foreign ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin told a daily media briefing. “We understand that the US presidential election result will be determined following U.S. law and procedures.” In 2016, Chinese President Xi Jinping sent congratulations to Trump on November 9, a day after the election.While Biden is expected to maintain a tough stance on China – he has called Xi a “thug” and vowed to lead a campaign to “pressure, isolate and punish China” – he is likely to take a more measured and multilateral in his approach.The Kremlin said it would wait for the official results of the election before commenting, and that it had noted Trump’s announcement of legal challenges. President Vladimir Putin has remained silent since Biden’s victory. In the run-up to the vote, Putin had appeared to hedge his bets, frowning on Biden’s anti-Russian rhetoric but welcoming his comments on nuclear arms control. Putin had also defended Biden’s son, Hunter, against criticism from Trump. “We think it appropriate to wait for the official vote count,” a Kremlin spokesperson told reporters.There were two other notable holdouts among the world leaders who rushed to congratulate Biden: the leaders of Latin America’s two largest countries, both of whom have been seen as friendly to Trump.President Jair Bolsonaro of Brazil, sometimes dubbed “the Trump of the Tropics” for his populist, off-the-cuff style, has kept silent on Trump’s loss. And Mexican President Andrés Manuel López Obrador refused to congratulate Biden at this point, saying he would wait until the legal challenges over the vote were resolved.On Saturday, López Obrador was one of the few world leaders still willing to heap praise on Trump. “President Trump has been very respectful of us, and we have reached very good agreements, and we thank him because he has not interfered and has respected us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-russia-hold-off-on-hailing-biden-s-victory-as-trump-digs-in/story-TB431Vw26Xo3eAhx7VPGiI.html
10-11-2020||World||Pfizer says its Covid vaccine 90 per cent effective||The Covid-19 vaccine being developed by Pfizer Inc and BioNTech SE prevented more than 90% of infections in a study of tens of thousands of volunteers, the most encouraging scientific advance so far in the battle against the pandemic that has infected over 50 million people, of whom 1.2 million have died.Eight months into the crisis, the preliminary results pave the way for the companies to seek an emergency-use authorisation from regulators if further research shows the shot is also safe. The vaccine may be available by the end of the month. The disclosure ends the suspense over the release of interim analysis of the company’s Phase 3 clinical trials that was initially expected by the end of October. The data (the first interim efficacy analysis as it is called of late stage trial data) was released after being vetted by independent experts. Interim efficacy data presents the first significant evidence that a vaccine has been able to prevent disease, and not just trigger an immune response. Pfizer and BioNTech’s announcement that the messenger RNA, or mRNA, vaccine had at least 90% efficacy among 94 confirmed cases means that at least 84 of the people who developed symptomatic Covid from over 43,000 trial volunteers had received the placebo.This includes people who got two doses of the vaccine as well as those who received a placebo shot. According to Pfizer’s trial protocol released previously, this number falls closer to what would have been the third interim analysis checkpoint, for which it had set a 62.7% efficacy target – the 90% number far exceeds this target. “The first set of results from our Phase 3 Covid-19 vaccine trials provides the initial evidence of our vaccine’s ability to prevent Covid-19,” Pfizer CEO Albert Bourla said in a statement. He termed it “a great day for science and humanity.”The companies’ findings do not include details on safety because the US Food and Drug Administration requires at least two months of safety data and the company is in the process of collating that for the trial that began in late July and involves almost 44,000 participants. In a statement, Pfizer said it will “have the required safety data by late November. Submission for Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) to the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) will be planned soon after the required safety milestone is achieved, which is currently expected to occur in the third week of November.” If approved, the companies expect to produce around 50 million doses of the vaccine this year itself. “With today’s news, we are a significant step closer to providing people around the world with a much needed breakthrough to help bring an end to this global health crisis,” Bourla added.According to science informatics and analytics company Airfinity, Pfizer’s positive results mean they could have enough cases for EUA in the US following the safety readouts in less than two weeks. “We also expect EU and UK to approve quickly,” said Airfinity’s CEO Rasmus Bech Hansen, in an email to HT. “These results increase the likelihood of a positive readout for Moderna, whose vaccine follows similar technology and had comparable phase I data,” Hansen said, adding that “US, EU, and Japan stand as biggest winners as they have pre-purchased the most doses from Pfizer”.Pfizer-BioNTech have secured supply deals with multiple countries for a little over 1 billion doses till the end of 2021. In all, its production capacity till the end of 2021, based on deals with vaccine makers, is estimated at 1.8 billion doses, according to Airfinity data. To be sure, one of the fundamental questions about any vaccine for Covid-19 remains unanswered by this data (although that was never meant to be answered rightaway): the length of immunity provided by the vaccine.Pfizer and BioNTech are among the frontrunners in the race to develop a vaccine for Covid-19. Others that are in the midst of late-stage human trials include Moderna Inc, Johnson & Johnson, and AstraZeneca-Oxford.The interim data from the Pfizer vaccine was to be initially reviewed after 32 volunteers in the trial contracted the infection; this was subsequently increased to 62; but eventually, the data for 94 participants who were infected and symptomatic was analysed.If successfully tested and launched, the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine will be the world’s first mRNA one. Its vaccine carries a piece of genetic instruction code (mRNA) that activates human cells to themselves make a version of the spike protein of SARS-COV2, the virus that causes Covid-19. This spike protein then activates the body’s immune system, producing an immune reaction. Moderna’s vaccine candidate is also based on the same technology. The Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine will require two shots. According to the companies, the data indicates that the efficacy rate is in excess of 90%, seven days after participants received their second shot.News of the vaccine’s efficacy breaks amidst a surge in cases in the US, with the 7-day average crossing 100,000 over the weekend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pfizer-says-its-covid-vaccine-90-per-cent-effective/story-rpCzQlRMmLSXK9TtGJsfoM.html
10-11-2020||World||Trump fires US defence secretary Mark Esper||US President Donald Trump on Monday fired defence secretary Mark Esper and announced Christopher C Mills, head of the National Counterterrorism Center, as acting head of the defence department.Esper was Trump’s second defence secretary. The first, James Mattis, had resigned over policy differences with the president about troops in Syria.“I am pleased to announce that Christopher C Miller, the highly respected Director of the National Counterterrorism Center (unanimously confirmed by the Senate), will be Acting Secretary of Defense, effective immediately,” president said on twitter.“Chris will do a GREAT job! Mark Esper has been terminated. I would like to thank him for his service.”Esper had only two months, as does Trump who lost the election to Joe Biden, the president-elect.Esper’s firing further destabilises a government already navigating Trump’s refusal to concede election defeat to Democrat Joe Biden.Esper had clashed with Trump over his suggestion of using military personnel to quash civic unrest.Trump, who is pursuing so far flimsy claims of election fraud in the courts, has only until January 20 before he has to leave office and Biden takes over.Esper’s departure could foreshadow a broader post-election purge of appointees who displeased the president. It also means Trump will have seen the departure of two confirmed defence secretaries in less than two years.While Esper, 56, had worked with the president on controversial priorities such as sending US troops to the border with Mexico and drawing down forces in Germany, Afghanistan and Syria, the president voiced increasing dissatisfaction with his Pentagon chief in recent months.Trump said privately in August that he planned to replace Esper after the election, according to people familiar with the discussions, while the defence secretary told people close to him that he intended to leave regardless of the election’s outcome.The president was frustrated that Esper, who became secretary in July 2019 after serving as Army secretary and as a former executive at Raytheon Technologies Corp., didn’t do more to publicly defend him on key issues, including Trump’s rejection of reports that Russia paid Taliban fighters “bounties” for the killing of U.S. troops in Afghanistan.Trump has increasingly sought overt signs of loyalty and a willingness by his top aides to engage in partisan fighting, as demonstrated by Secretary of State Michael Pompeo’s making of a video in support of the president while on an official trip to Jerusalem for the president’s behalf at the Republican National Convention in August.But while Trump’s cabinet secretaries routinely shift praise for key accomplishments to the president, Esper sometimes showed neutrality. Last month, Esper lauded 10 NATO allies for meeting defence spending thresholds he didn’t mention that Trump had pressed for that outcome.Trump was also angered that Esper in June publicly opposed the idea of deploying active-duty military to contain nationwide protests over racism. He confronted his defense secretary June 3 at the White House after Esper held a news conference in which he said that using active-duty military forces to perform law enforcement within the US is “a matter of last resort” and that the National Guard was better-suited to the task, people familiar with the matter said.The president again signalled fatigue with Esper on August 15, when he used a derogatory nickname for his defense chief meant to suggest he’s a yes-man.“Mark Yesper, did you call him Yesper” Trump said at the time. “Some people call him Yesper. I get along with him,” he added with a shrug.When asked if he was considering firing Esper, the president replied, “I consider firing everybody. At some point that’s what happens.”(With inputs from Agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-fires-us-defence-secretary-mark-esper/story-XTMhJ81YVCyZZxmA58p7lK.html
10-11-2020||India||SCBA chief writes to top court, complains against ‘extraordinary listing’ of Arnab’s plea||The Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) president has objected to the “extraordinary” listing of the petition filed by Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Manoranjan Goswami and has questioned the Supreme Court Secretary General to disclose whether any order or direction to list the matter was issued by the Chief Justice of India in this regard.SCBA President and senior advocate Dushyant Dave in a communication dated Tuesday to Supreme Court Secretary General Sanjeev S Kalgaonkar said, “I address this letter to you (Secretary General) as the President of the SCBA to lodge strong protest with regard to the subject matter which has been listed for tomorrow (Wednesday)… I am not writing this letter to anyway interfere in with his (Goswami’s) rights to move the Supreme Court….The serious issue here is selective listing of matters that the Registry under your leadership is indulging in for last eight months during the Covid-19 pandemic.”The communication (though not on official letterhead) said, “It is deeply disturbing as to how and why every time Mr Goswami approaches the Supreme Court, his matter gets listed instantly.” Dave complained that he received complaints from several advocates on record (AoR) that the “matters filed by them are not getting listed for weeks and months though very urgent and involving serious issues requiring the Court’s urgent intervention including Bail matters.”Goswami had approached the apex court against an order of the Bombay High Court passed on Monday refusing interim bail in a 2018 abetment to suicide case. Dave stated, “The subject matter was filed yesterday, it got instant diary number, though not final, and it is listed tomorrow. This is a gross abuse of administrative power, whosoever has exercised it on the administrative side. It gives an impression that clients represented by certain lawyers are getting special treatment, which does not speak well of the great Institution, that the Supreme Court is.”The letter goes on to say that “it is quite well known that such extraordinarily urgent listings of matters cannot and does not take place without specific orders from the Chief Justice of India,” as he wished to know whether any specific order was issued in this regard by CJI.Without specifying which cases got listed in an extraordinary way, the SCBA President referred to the case involving the arrest of Congress leader P Chidambaram who could not get “similar speed listing” and had to spend long months in jail till the Supreme Court granted him bail. Dave questioned why this was happening despite the listing process being computerized. He also questioned how matters are getting circulated before few benches.Dave demanded that till all matters filed by various AORs with urgent listing requests prior to November 10 are listed, Goswami’s matter should not be taken up and requested to put up this letter before the bench that will take up Goswami’s case on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scba-chief-writes-to-top-court-complains-against-extraordinary-listing-of-arnab-s-plea/story-Mu5wqkxVQyRDVLMiCK8MXP.html
10-11-2020||India||6 labourers killed, 10 injured as wall of under-construction factory collapses in Jodhpur||Six labourers were killed and 10 others injured after the wall of an under-construction factory collapsed in Rajasthan’s Jodhpur district on Tuesday evening, police said.Search and rescue operations are underway as some more labourers are feared trapped under the debris, they said.Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot expressed grief over the loss of lives in the incident.Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (West) Umesh Ojha said the incident took place in Phase II of Basni Industrial Area.“In the evening, between 5:30 and 6:00 PM, a wall of the factory suddenly collapsed. There was a loud sound and about 15 labourers were buried under the debris,” he said.During the rescue operation, the bodies of six labourers were pulled out from the rubble. Ten labourers, who were injured, were rushed to the hospital. They are undergoing treatment at Mathura Das Mathur Hospital and AIIMS, he said.Ojha said none of the victims has been identified so far. Some of them are said to have come from other districts and working under a contractor.“We would also look into the matter with regard to any negligence by the civil contractor and register a case against him accordingly,” he said.Administration and police officials are supervising the rescue operation. Lighting arrangements have been made to facilitate the operation at night.In a tweet in Hindi, Gehlot said the news about the death of labourers was “extremely unfortunate”.The state government has announced an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh for the families of each of the deceased. The probe into the matter has been handed over to the divisional commissioner, Jodhpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-labourers-killed-10-injured-as-wall-of-under-construction-factory-collapses-in-jodhpur/story-p2jSvYcGgvYqqVBCNDM60O.html
10-11-2020||India||Brand Yogi gets a boost as BJP warms up for 2022 UP elections with bypoll sweep||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers in Uttar Pradesh launched into early Diwali celebrations as the party on Tuesday finally shrugged off the by-poll jinx with a strong showing giving the party a psychological edge ahead of the series of locally important polls it faces from December onwards.The BJP held six of seven by-poll seats and the SP one in the 2017 assembly polls. The by-elections did not alter the equation. The BJP was haunted by the jinx ever since the 2018 Lok Sabha by-polls when SP defeated the ruling party. This time around, there was no upset.The BJP quickly marketed its by-poll success as an endorsement of ‘brand Yogi’ to acknowledge chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s series of online cadre connect campaigns before he addressing a rally in each of the seven by-poll seats along with state BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh, for whom it was the first election since taking over the post.Watch: BJP-JDU top leaders in huddle as Congress blames Owaisi for ‘cutting votes’The BJP had rejected an offer by its ally Nishad party to let it field criminal- turned-politician Dhananjay Singh on its symbol in Malhani from where Singh had stood second in the 2017 UP assembly polls. The by-polls would now be followed by a series of locally important elections. After the elections to the graduate and teachers’ constituency polls on December 1, there would be a mini-contest for the upper house of the state legislature as the term of 11 MLCs is ending by January 30 next year, followed by the panchayat polls, likely in February.Also Read: MP bypolls: BJP’s Mahendra Singh Sisodia, Sumitradevi Kasdekar winElections to 35 MLC seats (local body) too would be held before March 2022, just ahead of the big battle for the UP assembly polls.Experts felt that the by-poll results made it clear that the party would go into the 2022 UP polls with Yogi Adityanath as its face. “Naturally, post win, it’s Brand Yogi that has gained strength. While Prime Minister Narendra Modi is the undisputed leader nationally, in UP, Yogi, in my opinion, would be the party’s face in 2022 elections,” said Irshad Ilmi, a veteran journalist. Also Read: RJD issues list of 119 seats in twist to Bihar vote count, says it has won themWhile top opposition leaders like Congress general secretary and UP in-charge Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav and Bahujan Samaj Party president Mayawati stayed away from the campaign, the BJP mounted a heavy-duty campaign that was led by Yogi Adityanath, who addressed seven rallies in all constituencies followed by deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, who addressed rallies in five seats.Deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma, too, was roped in for the by-poll campaign. Bihar Election Results: Full coverageEight cabinet ministers, apart from party functionaries and lawmakers had camped in the constituencies. State BJP general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal too visited all the constituencies to fine-tune the party plan. In seats like Deoria, the BJP had served a warning to dissidents not to violate the party line, said experts. Here, BJP rebel Ajay Singh aka Pintoo had contested as an independent after the party rejected his claim on the seat which was represented by his father Janmejay Singh and whose death caused the by-poll. For the same seat, the Samajwadi Party changed the candidate at the last minute though the BJP too sprang a surprise on its opponents by opting for a party worker Satyaprakash Mani Tripathi, an assistant professor of political science, to set up an interesting battle in which all the major political parties had fielded a Brahmin candidate. “In a way, the BJP’s win in Deoria amid an all-Brahmin cast of other parties, also settled the issue of Brahmins being unhappy with the present dispensation. The opposition conspiracy of labelling Yogi Adityanath government as anti-Brahmin, especially after the Bikru encounter, backfired. Had it been true, the results would have been markedly different both in Deoria and Ghatampur,” said BJP lawmaker Vijay Bahadur Pathak, who is also the party’s state unit vice president.“The BJP had won the Ghatampur (reserved) assembly seat in 2017 after four decades and hence retaining the seat was special,” he added. “It’s a win for good governance,” said UP minister Mohsin Raza who had campaigned especially in Bangermau, Unnao where the BJP denied a ticket to its ex-MLA Kuldeep Sengar’s family. The seat had fallen vacant after Sengar was disqualified from the assembly following his conviction in a rape case in December last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/brand-yogi-gets-a-boost-as-bjp-warms-up-for-2022-up-elections-with-bypoll-sweep/story-mfdz9hxsvBYh9G0xb8i0KN.html
10-11-2020||India||Ahead of Diwali, Delhi food safety dept destroys 3,200 kg of spurious khoya||Ahead of Diwali, to ensure that the quality of sweets being sold in Delhi is up to the mark, the government has launched a special drive to maintain strict surveillance on the sale of Khoya and Mawa. The government’s food safety department has deputed six enforcement teams and conducted raids to prevent sale of spurious khoya. The government has also deployed mobile testing vans that are being used to create awareness in people and quickly checking raw material that seem suspicious. The enforcement teams have so far conduced five raids at Khoya Mandi auction site at Mori gate from where the khoya is distributed across Delhi. During the surveillance, officers from the food safety department have collected 188 samples to check for the quality of khoya and 25 legal samples (the results of analysis of these samples can be presented in court as evidence). Around 3,200 kg of khoya that was either spurious or thought to be so was destroyed by the teams. The government is strictly monitoring and inspecting the premises of various food businesses to ensure that the sweets are prepared in a hygienic manner. Around 130,000 food business operators have been sent emails along with attached awareness materials on Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and food handling during festive seasons and check on common adulterants in sweets. “The government is very serious about the health of the people of Delhi. We are keeping a vigil on the sale of Khoya and Mawa as these are used to prepare most sweets that are in high demand during Diwali,” said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain. The department is also participating in creating awareness where over 2,500 food business operators were sensitized through 10 webinars.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-diwali-delhi-food-safety-dept-destroys-3-200-kg-of-spurious-khoya/story-4s3lWgAFaDWQaz04m78n0J.html
10-11-2020||India||Gujarat by-election results 2020: List of winning candidates as BJP wins all 8 seats||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday swept the by-elections for eight assembly constituencies in Gujarat, voting for which took place on November 3. Almost all candidates won convincingly, with the margin of 4,649 in Morbi being the narrowest.Also Read | BJP juggernaut steamrolls Gujarat by-elections, wins all 8 seatsThe eight constituencies for which by-polls were held are Abdasa, Karjan, Morbi, Gadhada, Dhari, Limbdi, Kaprada and Dangs. Polling was necessitated as Congress lawmakers from these seats resigned earlier this year, with five of them joining the BJP. The five who joined the BJP were Pradyumansinh Jadeja (Abdasa), Jitu Chaudhari (Kaprada), Brijesh Merja (Morbi), JV Kakadiya (Dhari) and Akshay Patel (Karjan). All of them were fielded from the respective constituencies they had resigned from.Meanwhile, three others who resigned, did not join any party.Taking a jibe at the Congress, chief minister Vijay Rupani called the party a ‘sinking’ ship, adding that the bypoll results were just a ‘trailer’ of the assembly elections in the state which will take place in 2022.Also Read | It is trailer for upcoming elections: Gujarat CM on BJP’s lead in by-pollsThe BJP had won 100 seats in state assembly elections in 2017, with 92 being the majority mark in the 182-member assembly. The Congress, meanwhile, was the second-largest party with 77 seats.Here’s the list of BJP’s winning candidates from Tuesday’s by-poll results:1. Abdasa: Pradyumansinh Jadeja (by 36,778 votes)2. Limbdi: Kiritsinh Rana (32,050)3. Morbi: Brijesh Merja (4,649)4. Dhari: JV Kakadiya (17,209)5. Gadhada: Atmaram Parmar (23,295)6. Karjan: Akshay Patel (16,425)7. Dangs: Vijay Patel (60,095)8. Kaprada: Jitu Chaudhari (47,066)Meanwhile, runners-up on all the eight seats were from the Congress: Dr Shantilal Senghani (Abdasa), Chetan Khachar (Limbdi), Jayantilal Patel (Morbi), Suresh Kotadiya (Dhari), Mohan Solanki (Gadhada), Kiritsinh Jadeja (Karjan), Suryakant Gavit (Dangs) and Babubhai Patel (Kaprada).Results of Gujarat by-polls can also be checked by visiting the official Election Commission of India (ECI) website.Besides sweeping the Gujarat by-polls, the BJP is also doing well in Madhya Pradesh and has won by-elections in Karnataka. Like Gujarat, both Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka are BJP-ruled states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-by-election-results-2020-list-of-winning-candidates-as-bjp-wins-all-8-seats/story-KFNW9DLjppFe38h3IwGLuK.html
10-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: Ruling coalition retains both seats in Jharkhand and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Jharkhand by-polls: 3rd member of Soren family elected in a ruling alliance showThe ruling allies Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) and the Congress retained their assembly seats in the Jharkhand by-polls on Tuesday, even as Basant Soren, youngest of the three sons of JMM patriarch Shibu Soren, became the third person of the political family to become a member of the current Jharkhand assembly. Read moreBJP juggernaut steamrolls Gujarat by-elections, wins all 8 seatsThe ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, which has won all eight assembly seats in Gujarat, termed its performance a trailer of sorts before the 2022 assembly polls whereas the Congress wondered how it could not convert the “palpable public anger” that it had claimed to have spotted, into votes. Read moreTwitter’s new feature to curb spreading of misinformation: Here’s how it will workTwitter wants you to see, retweet and like only that news that are legit and doesn’t spread misinformation. While it has been working on that front already, it’s latest efforts now come in the form of expanding “misinformation” labels on misleading tweets. As mentioned by TechCrunch, Twitter has developed a new feature that will pop up a “misleading information” label on a tweet that is already labelled as misinformation, whenever you try to like it. Read moreIPL 2020 Final, MI vs DC: ‘You got a huge problem’, Gautam Gambhir points out worrying factor for Delhi Capitals top orderDelhi Capitals decided to leave out Prithvi Shaw from the playing XI for the final against Mumbai Indians on Tuesday. Read moreWas Kajal from Hum Paanch a ‘90s LGBT icon’? Ekta Kapoor reacts to theory, says ‘you wish’Producer Ekta Kapoor on Tuesday responded to a social media post claiming that the character Kajal Bhai, from the popular 90s sitcom Hum Paanch, was an ‘LGBT icon’. Ekta dashed the fan’s hopes, and said that Kajal was simply a ‘non-conformist’. Read moreThey missed going to Disneyland’s roller coaster, so they build one in the backyard. WatchDue to the pandemic-induced lockdown all the Disney theme parks were closed. But that didn’t stop this family from California from making their own joyride right in the backyard. Shared on YouTube, the amazing creation by the LaRochelle family is a sight to behold. The video may make your jaw drop in surprise. Read moreBihar result: RJD, Congress raise EVM question, Election Commission respondsEven as counting of votes cast in the Bihar Assembly election continues, some Opposition parties raised questions regarding EVM safety and security. The Rashtriya Janata Dal tweeted a video claiming that vehicles laden with electronic voting machines and postal ballots entered a strongroom in Arrah without clearance. Congress’ Shatrughan Sinha retweeted the video, stating ‘one has to be careful and watch’, but added that he’s offering ‘no comments at the moment’. His son Luv Sinha, who is a candidate in the Bihar elections from Bankipur seat, said that if the NDA can’t win honestly, it would have no shame in doing whatever it takes to form the government. The Election Commission rejected all allegations against EVMs, stating that there is no doubt about the machines’ integrity. Watch the full video for more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-ruling-coalition-retains-both-seats-in-jharkhand-and-all-the-latest-news/story-7B23zVIQP3sRVjs8X0h1EK.html
10-11-2020||India||Guv Manoj Sinha urges J&K police to ensure maximum participation in DDC polls||While reviewing security arrangements ahead of the District Development Council (DDC) elections between November 28 and December 19, besides by-elections for panchayats and Urban Local Bodies, Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Tuesday asked the Union Territory Police to ensure maximum participation of the people in the upcoming polls.At the outset of a virtual meeting held by Sinha, the inspector general of police, Kashmir, and district superintendents of police of Kashmir division briefed him about the preparatory measures for the ensuing elections.Stressing to ensure free, fair, transparent and peaceful elections, he emphasised to provide sufficient security to the participating candidates. “Also ensure maximum participation of the people in the upcoming polls. People should feel secured to cast their ballot on the election day,” Sinha said.He added that the liaison between the different security agencies should be cohesive and strong for effective actions on the ground.The district SSPs informed the lieutenant governor that all the arrangements have been made to ensure the smooth conduct of polling with the deployment of forces and other security arrangements already in place.The lieutenant governor also appreciated the Jammu and Kashmir Police. “The J-K Police is one of the finest professional forces of the country, besides it has a splendid history of valour and sacrifice. I am confident that the J&K Police is capable of dealing with the emerging situation, while maintaining a close watch on all inimical elements to ensure peace in the region,” he maintained.Jammu and Kashmir Election Commissioner K K Sharma had last week announced that the first District Development Council elections in the Union Territory will be held in eight phases between November 28 and December 19.This will be the first electoral exercise in Jammu and Kashmir since the abrogation of the special status of the erstwhile state and its bifurcation into two Union Territories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/guv-manoj-sinha-urges-j-k-police-to-ensure-maximum-participation-in-ddc-polls/story-16Kcs7jJxH8zeIKCSsHKWK.html
10-11-2020||India||Greater India-UK collaboration in Indo-Pacific to be key part of roadmap for bilateral relations||Greater collaboration in the Indo-Pacific region on issues such as maritime security and climate change is set to be a key component of a 10-year roadmap being framed for the India-UK relationship, Britain’s acting high commissioner Jan Thompson said on Tuesday. The two sides are not yet ready for a free trade agreement (FTA), though the enhanced trade partnership launched by commerce minister Piyush Goyal and UK secretary of state for international trade Elizabeth Truss on Monday is a step in that direction, Thompson told a virtual news briefing. The 10-year roadmap figured prominently in recent discussions in London between foreign secretary Harsh Shringla and UK permanent under secretary Philip Barton, with the focus on greater cooperation on climate change, trade and investment, and defence and security. The UK is also conducting a review for a new global strategy that is expected “to point to a decisive shift towards greater engagement with the Indo-Pacific”, she said. The UK’s focus on the Indo-Pacific comes close on the heels of key steps taken by other major European states. Germany recently unveiled its Indo-Pacific policy and France has appointed its first ambassador for the region, who will work closely with India to implement a joint vision for the Indo-Pacific. “There is a lot of potential to collaborate with India in the Indo-Pacific region. Part of the UK’s new international posture is likely to be a very significant tilt around the Indo-Pacific,” Thompson said. “We have a very similar vision to India, in terms of wanting to see a free and open Indo-Pacific region that supports the rules-based international system, there is a lot of synergy there,” she said, identifying maritime security, piracy, trade and investment and climate security as potential areas for cooperation. The new enhanced trade partnership launched on Monday is aimed at addressing trade barriers and “difficult areas”, and could lead to an FTA in future. “For now, we are not yet ready to launch a formal FTA but the enhanced trade partnership is very much a stepping stone towards that,” Thompson said. The UK is the second fastest growing G20 investor in India over the past decade and bilateral trade grew by 10% last year. Since 2000, UK firms have invested nearly £22 billion in India, while the combined revenue of Indian companies in Britain has grown by 87% in the past five years. Thompson said UK foreign secretary Dominic Raab is expected to visit India in next few months, and Prime Minister Boris Johnson too is keen to come to the country. In response to a question on the UK’s position on Hong Kong, Thompson said Britain is committed to “upholding Hong Kong’s high degree of autonomy [and] rights and freedoms under the ‘one country, two systems’ framework”. She added, “We have been concerned about some of the measures China has been taking in respect of Hong Kong, for example the national security law.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/greater-india-uk-collaboration-in-indo-pacific-to-be-key-part-of-roadmap-for-bilateral-relations/story-EcYhRSoXXGI4RlcohaQkXN.html
10-11-2020||India||AMU VC registers himself as first volunteer of Covaxin Phase-3 trial||As the trial of Covid-19 vaccine enters the third phase, AMU Vice Chancellor Professor Tariq Mansoor on Tuesday got himself registered to be the first volunteer for the Covaxin trials.The phase 3 trials of Covaxin developed by Bharat Biotech began at JN Medical College and Hospital (JNMCH) of the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) here.Prof Tariq Mansoor volunteered himself to motivate and inspire others to come forward, an AMU spokesman said.Covaxin Phase 3 trial is aimed at evaluating the safety and efficacy of the coronavirus vaccine study led in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and Bharat Biotech, he said.Seeking active participation from all age groups and socio-economic background in the clinical trials, the AMU VC said, “By volunteering for a trial or study, one get a chance to participate in ground breaking research and contribute to developing better cure and treatment options.” JNMCH principal Prof Shahid Ali Siddiqui said an ethical committee comprising doctors, social workers and lawyers, has already been constituted to manage the clinical trials. He said the required staff for conducting the vaccine trial has been recruited and the registration of volunteers has also been started from Tuesday.Principal Investigator Prof Mohammad Shameem said ICMR Covaxin Phase 3 trial is going on after the Phase 1 and Phase 2 trials showed encouraging results.Volunteers who will undergo the Phase 3 trial will receive travel expenses and other benefits as per ICMR guideline, AMU spokesman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amu-vc-registers-himself-as-first-volunteer-of-covaxin-phase-3-trial/story-vVt2shvZ9NW7RpmS4KzgGO.html
10-11-2020||India||Govt making pensioners ‘atmanirbhar’ by promoting digital life certificates: Jitendra Singh||Union minister Jitendra Singh on Tuesday said the government is trying to make pensioners “atmanirbhar” by promoting the digital life certificate which can also be given from the comfort of one’s home. Due to the difficulties faced by the pensioners earlier in submitting the life certificate because of the Covid-19 pandemic, the government has relaxed the existing timeline for submission from November 1 to December 31 this year, he said.“Under the able leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Department of Pensions and Pensioners’ Welfare (DoPPW) is trying to make the pensioners ‘atmanirbhar’ (self-reliant) by promoting the digital life certificate for pensioners which can be given from the comfort of one’s home also,” Singh, the Minister of State for Personnel, said.Addressing an interactive session of Brahma Kumari Sister Shivani on “Power of Thoughts and Meditation in Covid-19 pandemic” organised by the DoPPW here, he said pensioners, as senior citizens being the most vulnerable group in the wake of the pandemic, need a helping hand and compassionate ears in addition to medical care. Such programmes will help them tackle their mental stress levels thus protecting them from physical illness as well, he said.Singh said that senior citizens always have a lot to offer to the society and their valuable experiences can bring changes to the society, according to a Personnel Ministry statement. The key to happiness is being grateful for all that we have and to be self-content which is enshrined in all ancient scriptures and now it has also been acknowledged by science that mental and emotional well-being leads to better physical health and immunity against diseases, he said.Endorsing the thoughts on building positivity in life given by Sister Shivani in her address, the minister said that lifestyle modifications are a must in this period as one should liberate oneself from nagging thoughts. Earlier, while addressing the programme, Sister Shivani called for keeping oneself energised with positive thoughts in this period, the statement said. “Through their sanskars (values), they can take care of not only their own emotional well-being but also contribute to emotional strength of everyone else in their homes and in the society as they are the givers of unconditional emotional support, stability, hope and love to all younger members of their family and society at large,” she added. This programme was aimed at sensitising senior pensioners on mental well-being during the pandemic, the statement said. “The DoPPW has been taking extra efforts for organising programmes for addressing pensioners’ health issues, including providing counselling for Covid-19, yoga sessions for enhancing immunity and overall health, through video-conferencing connecting a large number of pensioners across India with the help of pensioners associations,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-making-pensioners-atmanirbhar-by-promoting-digital-life-certificates-jitendra-singh/story-h4QvFHdudiCssuB6CiFfUM.html
10-11-2020||India||Gujarat bypolls: Two more Congress renegade win on BJP tickets||The ruling BJP in Gujarat on Tuesday won by elections to Morbi and Karjan Assembly seats by defeating contestants of the opposition Congress, the Election Commission said.Click here for LIVE updates on Gujarat bypollsThe BJP has already won Abdasa seat.In a tight contest in Morbi seat, BJP’s Brijesh Merja emerged victorious against his nearest Congress rival Jayantilal Patel by a margin of 4,649 votes.Merja was polled 64,711 votes while Patel secured 60,062 votes.In the 2017 assembly poll, Merja, who had contested on a Congress ticket, had defeated five-time BJP MLA Kantilal Amrutiya.Also Read | Gujarat bypolls: Congress turncoat wins Abdasa seat on BJP ticketIn Karjan constituency in Vadodara district, BJP’s Akshay Patel, also a Congress turncoat, won by a margin of 16,425 votes against Congress nominee Kiritisinh Jadeja.Patel garnered 76,958 votes, while Jadeja could secure 60,533 votes.In the rest five seats, out of the total eight constituencies for which by elections were held on November 3, the BJP has established a dominant lead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-bypolls-two-more-congress-renegade-win-on-bjp-tickets/story-TrnJokrlM3n2mvCyuLIEXJ.html
10-11-2020||India||ICMR clears new test for Covid-19, Kochi lab to ramp up production||With ICMR listing the faster and accurate RT Lamp technology for confirmatory testing of Covid-19 in labs across India, a Kochi-based company Tuesday said it will make available over 10 lakh tests of reagents and supportive equipment in the coming months to augment the nation’s continuing fight against coronavirus.Kochi-based Agappe Diagnostics Ltd (ADL), claimed to be the first company to roll out this technology in India, said in a release it will work closely with the Centre and state governments in their efforts to increase the rate of testing to tackle the spread of the pandemic.“RT Lamp-based test kits can provide accurate test results in the shortest possible turnaround time and at competitive rates. This will relieve the public health sector from the heavy burden of test result backlogs,” company Managing Director Thomas John said.“It will also address the system overload caused by slower results from other confirmatory testing processes for covid,” he said while launching commercial production of the RT Lamp-based equipment and reagent through virtual conference here.He noted that in recent days, test rates across the states have been fluctuating and the number of Covid cases have crossed one crore as on Monday, indicating that conducting more and more tests was the only alternative before the country.“The listing of RT Lamp technology for Covid testing makes it possible for laboratories located in rural India to adopt this test protocol with the minimum investment in infrastructure and logistics,” John said.He said the RT Lamp-based Tests will help reduce backlogs in testing patients for Covid-19 because the process can identify positive samples in 10 minutes.The equipment can be easily handled by lab personnel as it is simple and compact in nature, John said.The first unit of RT Lamp equipment, under the brand name Mispa Lume, was handed to Dr Ramesh Kumar, Chief Executive Officer and promoter, Metropolis Kerala, by D M Vasudevan, well-known medical academician and Director and head of the R&D of Agappe.The company officials said Agappe Diagnostics is the first company in India to get ICMR validation for its Covid test kits based on RT Lamp technology with a specificity of 100 per cent and sensitivity of 98.7 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-clears-new-test-for-covid-19-kochi-lab-to-ramp-up-production/story-HH2nzN75UBDUFtGi8LfbhO.html
10-11-2020||India||Fire breaks out in Kolkata’s Topsia area, 20 shanties gutted||Around 20 shanties were completely gutted in a major fire which broke out in the city’s Topsia area on Tuesday afternoon, a fire department official said. At least six fire tenders were pressed into service to control the blaze, which was first spotted around 3.30pm, he said.“No one was injured in the fire. Our officers are trying their best to douse the flames,” the official added.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee visited the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-breaks-out-in-kolkata-s-topsia-area-20-shanties-gutted/story-XzAQ2y44af8S6KjH6qyekJ.html
10-11-2020||India||Jats, Muslims renew quota demand amid Gurjar agitation in Rajasthan||Groups from the Jat and Muslim communities in Rajasthan have renewed their demand for reservations, amid ongoing agitations in the state by Gurjars for quota in government jobs and educational institutions. The protest by members of the Gurjar community, who have blocked the Delhi-Mumbai rail route in Pilupura and the Hindaun-Bayana road, entered its tenth day on Tuesday after talks between its leaders and the Rajasthan government remained inconclusive on Monday. Leaders from the Jat community in Bharatpur and Dholpur districts have decided to hold ‘mahapanchayats’ at different places to discuss the course of action to get reservations in government jobs and educational institutions. The first of these meetings will be held in Bharatpur district’s Pathena village on November 18. “We will hold ‘mahapanchayats’ at different locations starting November 18 and take a decision. If the government wants to hear us through agitations, then we will do a ‘chakka jam’ after a decision taken in the ‘mahapanchayats’,” Jat Aarakshan Sangarsh Samiti convener Nem Singh Faujdar said. The state government should recommend to the Centre to give Jats of these two districts reservation in the Central OBC list, he said, adding that Jats of other districts of the state have already got quota. The Jats of Bharatpur and Dholpur districts were excluded from the Central OBC (other backward classes) list after a March 2015 Supreme Court order, and then from the state OBC list following a Rajasthan High Court ruling in August that year. In 2017, the Vasundhara Raje-led government had extended reservation to Jats of these two districts under the state OBC list, but they are yet to be included in the central list. The Muslim Minority Development Committee (MMDC), which has written to Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on the reservation issue, has demanded 10 per cent quota for backward Muslim castes. “Muslim OBCs fare worse than other OBCs in education and social backwardness. Separate reservation for Muslim OBCs in education and services should be given in the state on the lines of Karnataka,” MMDC secretary general Yunus Ali Khan said. The Delhi-Mumbai rail route in Bayana’s Pilupura and Hindaun-Bayana road has been blocked by members of the Gurjar Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti over reservation for the community. The organisation is demanding that the Rajasthan government should get the Gurjar reservation included in the Ninth Schedule of the Constitution, fill the backlog of vacancies and give the benefit of five per cent reservation to the Most Backward Classes (MBCs) in the pending recruitment process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jats-muslims-renew-quota-demand-amid-gurjar-agitation-in-rajasthan/story-zbZHUmPiEUaIkna338srdO.html
10-11-2020||India||Raj mayoral polls: Cong wins in 4 corporations, BJP wins 2||The ruling Congress on Tuesday won the mayoral polls in four corporations of Rajasthan, while the BJP won the seat in two corporations. Elected ward councilors on Tuesday voted to elect the mayors of six municipal corporations of three cities, including Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota.The BJP and Congress workers came face to face during the polls in Kota. The police had to use mild force to control the situation.“I strongly condemn the police lathicharge on Congress workers and journalists in Kota. I hope that the top police officers will take strict action against those responsible in this case,” Congress state unit president Govind Singh Dotasra tweeted.According to the State Election Commission, Saumya Gurjar of BJP defeated Divya Singh of Congress in Jaipur Greater Municipal Corporation, while Munesh Gurjar of Congress won in Jaipur Heritage Municipal Corporation defeating Kusum Yadav of BJP. Similarly, Kunti Parihar of Congress was elected mayor of Jodhpur North Municipal Corporation defeating Sangeeta Solanki of BJP. In Jodhpur South corporation, BJP’s Vanita Seth became the mayor after defeating Pooja Pareek of Congress. Manju Mehra of Congress won the mayoral election in Kota North Municipal Corporation defeating Santosh Bairwa of BJP. In Kota South Municipal Corporation, Rajiv Agarwal of Congress won by defeated BJP’s Vivek Rajvanshi.Elections were recently held for a total of 560 wards in the newly formed cities Jaipur Heritage, Jaipur Greater, Jaipur North, Jodhpur North, Jodhpur South, Kota North and Kota South. The Congress got a clear majority in Jodhpur North and Kota North municipal corporations, while the BJP got the lead in Jaipur Greater and Jodhpur South municipal corporations.The polls to elect deputy mayors of these municipal corporations will be held on November 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raj-mayoral-polls-cong-wins-in-4-corporations-bjp-wins-2/story-dA3JsZ1Pd8lJKYbLBnngUP.html
10-11-2020||India||Punjab CM announces 2-hour window for use of green firecrackers on Diwali, Gurpurab||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday announced a two-hour window for the use of green firecrackers on Diwali and Gurpurab, with curb for Christmas too, except in Mandi Gobindgarh where a total ban is imposed from midnight of November 9-10 till November 30-December 1 midnight due to the poor Air Quality Index (AQI) levels.The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed cities and towns in India with ‘moderate’ air quality (or below) to only allow the sale of green crackers and restricted timings to burst them during festivals.The NGT published its November 5 order on Monday that specified that average air quality for each city was to be calculated for November 2019 and then declared whether it was ‘poor’ or ‘moderate’ or otherwise. For NCR and those cities with ‘poor’ (or worse) air quality, the NGT directed a total ban on the sale and use of firecrackers from November 9-10, 2020 to the midnight of November 30-December 1, which would be reviewed thereafter.The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) categorises AQI levels in the 0-50 range as good; 51-100 as satisfactory; 101-200 as moderate; 201-300 as poor; 301-400 as very poor. Green crackers have 30% lower emissions of toxic gases than traditional ones and they do not contain barium nitrate, a metal oxide that increases both air and noise pollution.To address the issue of pollution which could aggravate the Covid-19 situation, NGT said the timings for bursting crackers other than green ones be restricted to two hours during festivals for cities and towns with ‘moderate’ air quality, as may be specified by the state concerned. “If nothing is specified by the state, timing will be 8pm to 10pm on Diwali and Gurupurab, 6am to 8am on Chatt and 11.55 pm to 12.30 am during Christmas and New Year’s Eve. All states may initiate special drives to contain air pollution from all sources in view of potential of aggravation of Covid-19,” read the order.The chief secretaries and director-general of police were directed to issue orders with enforcement guidelines, while pollution control boards were asked to monitor air quality status during this period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-cm-announces-2-hour-window-for-use-of-green-firecrackers-on-diwali-gurpurab/story-F6Yzr5refnLsQQnwSrmhFM.html
10-11-2020||India||BJP releases 1st list of candidates for J-K DDC polls||The BJP has released the first list of candidates for the upcoming District Development Council polls to be conducted on party basis in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir.Meanwhile, the parties of Peoples Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), that is jointly contesting the polls, have decided that the alliance candidates will contest the upcoming polls on their respective party symbols.BJP state spokesman Altaf Thakur said that the first list of the candidates for the DDC and panchayat polls has been released by the party high command.“In the first list, total 72 names were announced; 35 candidates from Jammu and 37 candidates from Kashmir, who will be the party candidates for the DDC polls,” Thakur said.Earlier, chairman PAGD, Farooq Abdullah said that the parties of the alliance will put up candidates on all the seats. “PAGD candidates will be contesting polls on the ticket of the parties in the alliance they belong to,” he said.Abdullah had also said that Congress will also be part of the PAGD alliance after his meeting with J&K Congress president on Sunday.Bihar Election Results: Full coverageOn November 7, PAGD leadership held a meeting in winter capital Jammu where it was decided that the alliance parties will jointly contest these polls. “Despite the abruptness of the DDC elections in terms of timing, it is important that this sacred space in democracy is not allowed to be invaded and plundered by divisive forces,” the PAGD spokesman Sajjad Lone had said, while announcing that the Gupkar alliance had unanimously decided to fight the DDC elections.Besides National Conference and the PDP, the Peoples Conference, the CPI (M), and the Awami National Conference are part of the PAGD. The National Conference and the PDP had stayed away from the panchayat polls in 2018.Also Read: BJP wins both Sira and RR Nagar assembly by-polls in KarnatakaMeanwhile, Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor, Manoj Sinha, reviewed the security arrangements for the DDC election and by-elections for Panchayats and urban local bodies (ULB) on Tuesday.Advisor to L-G, RR Bhatnagar; chief secretary, BVR Subrahmanyam, secretary, home, Shaleen Kabra, director general of police, Dilbag Singh, ADGPs and IG Jammu were present in the meeting. IG Kashmir, DIGs, SSPs and other senior police officers from Kashmir division attended the meeting via video conferencing.Sinha stressed upon the officers to ensure free, fair, transparent and peaceful elections. He emphasized on providing sufficient security to the participating candidates besides ensuring maximum participation of the people.“People must be facilitated during these elections so that they feel secure to cast their ballot on the particular election day,” the L-G said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-releases-1st-list-of-candidates-for-j-k-ddc-polls/story-gUn0k0JB1hitfvvncjfxtM.html
10-11-2020||India||EVMs absolutely robust and tamper-proof: EC||Against the backdrop of some leaders questioning the reliability of EVMs, the Election Commission (EC) asserted on Tuesday that the machines are “absolutely robust and tamper-free”.After the ruling NDA took a lead over the opposition Grand Alliance in the poll trends for Bihar on Tuesday, Congress leader Udit Raj raised questions on the reliability of EVMs, asking why the machines cannot be hacked if satellites can be controlled from the earth.But another Congress leader, Karti Chidambaram, said the electronic voting machine (EVM) system is robust, accurate and dependable.“This has always been my view. I stand by it. There have been doubters of the EVM from across political parties, particularly when the results don’t go in their favour. Till now no one has demonstrated scientifically their claims. Whatever be the outcome of any election, it’s time to stop blaming the EVM. In my experience, the EVM system is robust, accurate and dependable,” he tweeted.Responding to a question on doubts being raised by some politicians, Deputy Election Commissioner in-charge of EVMs Sudip Jain told reporters here that the machines are absolutely robust and tamper-proof.“It has been clarified time and again that EVMs are absolutely robust and tamper-proof. Even the Supreme Court has upheld their integrity more than once,” he said.Click here for live updates on Bihar Assembly election resultsJain recalled that in 2017, the commission had offered an “EVM challenge” to political parties.“The integrity of EVMs is absolutely without any doubts and merits no other clarification,” he said.Udit Raj asked if Donald Trump could have lost in the US presidential polls had EVMs been used.“If the direction of satellites to Mars and Moon can be controlled from the earth, then why can’t EVM be hacked,” he wrote on Twitter.“If elections were held in America with EVMs, could Trump have lost,” he asked.Udit Raj is the Congress party’s national spokesperson. He is a former BJP MP from Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/evms-absolutely-robust-and-tamper-proof-ec/story-PtvrrnAGXURg4Or8vBk7QI.html
10-11-2020||India||BJP wins both Sira and RR Nagar assembly by-polls in Karnataka||Celebrations broke out in the Karnataka unit of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party after it registered comfortable wins in both the Raja Rajeshwari Nagar (RR Nagar) and Sira assembly seats which went to by-polls on November 3.In RR Nagar, Congress turncoat and BJP candidate Munirathna won by a comfortable margin of 57,936 votes defeating his nearest Congress rival H Kusuma. JDS candidate Krishnamurthy came in a poor third.While Munirathna polled 125,734 votes, Kusuma got 67,798 and Krishnamurthy got 10,251 votes. For Munirathna who resigned his seat and crossed over to BJP helping the saffron party topple the 14-month-old Congress-JDS coalition government in the state it was a hat-trick victory having registered wins in two earlier polls too from the seat. The CM during the poll campaign had promised that Munirathna would be made a minister after winning the by-polls. However, it was the upset win in Sira seat which has brought much cheer to the ruling party. BJP had never even been a runner-up in this seat. In the by-poll, however, Dr Rajesh Gowda the BJP candidate defeated Congress party’s five time MLA and former minister T B Jayachandra by a margin of 12,949 votes. Surprisingly, the regional JD(S) which held the seat before the untimely death of its MLA B Satyanarayana due to Covid-19 leading to the by-poll - came in a poor third.BJP’s winning candidate Rajesh Gowda got 74,522 votes, while Jayachandra of Congress got 61,573 votes and JD(S) nominee Ammajamma the wife of the deceased MLA Satyanaryana got a mere 35,982 votes. In his first reaction to the defeat, KPCC president D K Shivakumar said, “While we accept the verdict, it is well known that by-polls tend to favour the ruling party. There is no question of being disheartened. We will continue to oppose the anti-people policies of the BJP government.”BJP state unit vice president and CM Yediyurappa’s son, B Y Vijayendra who led the party campaign especially in Sira warned the opposition parties saying, “At least now they should stop practicing politics of caste. Opposition parties’ money and liqour politics has been rejected by people. Everybody cutting across, caste and class lines have accepted the leadership of Yediyurappa.” Political analyst Manjunath said that while by-polls traditionally tend to favour the ruling party, BJP’s win in the Sira seat was commendable. “This could prolong Yediyurappa’s hold on the reins of the government. It is a setback for the Congress specially the margin of defeat in RR Nagar. It is a wipe-out for the JD(S) which is staring at dis-integration if it continues its poor run.”The results of four graduates and teachers constituencies for the upper house in the state, where BJP does not enjoy a majority is awaited as counting is still on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-wins-both-sira-and-rr-nagar-assembly-by-polls-in-karnataka/story-mLDBoxVWW12BvKZULBdsVL.html
10-11-2020||India||Have always been at the forefront to fight for the nation: Farooq Abdullah||National Conference President Farooq Abdullah announced late Monday that the constituents of the Peoples’ Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) will contest the upcoming election to District Development Councils in Jammu and Kashmir on their respective party symbols because allotment of combined symbol may not be possible at this advanced stage of the poll process. “Now very little time is left and therefore the alliance partners would contest on their own party symbols but they will be the joint candidates of the PAGD,” Farooq Abdullah told reporters in Kathua.The NC patriarch who has been under fire for recent comments, said those indulging in vicious campaigns against him may have nothing to say about the strong defence put forth by him along with Atal Bihari Vajpayee during a United Nations event in Geneva. “When it comes to fighting for the nation, I have always been in the forefront,” he said.He also said that dubbing him as anti-national was nothing new. The NC chief said that the PAGD’s fight is not against the nation but it is to oppose a certain party that has brought the country to an impasse by dividing the communities and driving a wedge between them. He said he has always opposed divisive politics of the BJP, as he believes in the India of Mahatma Gandhi, which is inclusive, based on the spirit of respect for all, harmony and tranquility. He said India belongs to all, irrespective of region, religion or colour and those trying to trample this glorious and unique ethos were enemies of the nation. To a question on the US elections, he said he hoped that the new regime will clear the mess across the world created during the tenure of Donald Trump. He said the irrational and reactionary politics has no place in democracy. “Like the US, a change is sure to take place in India also,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/have-always-been-at-the-forefront-to-fight-for-the-nation-farooq-abdullah/story-6R7WSScwkoPdXhBW3Uj8eK.html
10-11-2020||India||PM Modi to inaugurate office-cum-residential complex of ITAT’s Cuttack bench on Nov 11||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate a state-of-the-art office-cum-residential complex of Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT) in Odisha’s Cuttack on Wednesday, according to an official statement.According to the Ministry of Law and Justice, the inaugural function will be virtually attended by Union ministers Ravi Shankar Prasad and Dharmendra Pradhan, and Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik, Chief Justice and Judges of Orissa high court, ITAT President Justice PP Bhatt, Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) Chairman PC Modi and other officials.Briefing the media regarding the inauguration, Justice Bhatt said that the ITAT Cuttack has been functioning from rented premises since 1970 for almost 50 years and has jurisdiction for appeals arising from the State of Odisha.“So, the inauguration of this complex will help Cuttack bench of ITAT in imparting justice to the needy. With the e-court facility provided in the new building with good connectivity facility, the Cuttack bench will be able to hear and dispose of even the appeals pending with other benches in the Kolkata Zone which are presently non-functional such as Ranchi, Patna and Guwahati,” he added.While mentioning the performance of ITAT during the Covid-19 pandemic, ITAT President said that The ITAT has set up virtual court at all the benches across the country.“ITAT has been effectively using these facilities to conduct ‘virtual hearings’ during the lockdown period due to the Covid-19 pandemic. During this period, ITAT has disposed of 7,251 cases as against 3,778 cases filed. He told that ITAT is making extensive use of technology to make justice more accessible to people,” Justice Bhatt said.“A new e-filing portal is ready which shall facilitate e-filing of appeals, documents and other applications by the litigants. Physical notice boards are being replaced by digital screens displaying the constitution of benches, cause lists and other information. E-office workplace solutions are being implemented. With the e-court facility provided in the new building with good connectivity facility, the Cuttack bench will be able to hear and dispose of even the appeals pending with other benches in the Kolkata Zone which are presently non-functional such as Ranchi, Patna and Guwahati,” he added.On this occasion, an e-coffee table book on ITAT along with an e-book on ‘Reforms in Direct Taxes since 2014’, will also be released.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-office-cum-residential-complex-of-itat-s-cuttack-bench-on-nov-11/story-Ve88O9s9OwCoTz4wfWlmrJ.html
10-11-2020||India||On Pfizer’s big announcement, India says in touch with all Covid-19 vaccine manufacturers||The Union health ministry said on Tuesday India’s national expert group on the Covid-19 vaccine administration is in conversation with all vaccine manufacturers, including domestic and foreign. When asked if India was conducting discussions with Pfizer regarding its vaccine against Covid-19, the health ministry’s Rajesh Bhushan said, “The national expert group on Covid-19 vaccine administration is in dialogue with all vaccine manufacturers including domestic manufacturers and foreign manufacturers.”Bhushan’s comment came after US pharmaceutical giant Pfizer on Monday announced that its vaccine against coronavirus disease, which is jointly being developed with BioNTech SE, was more than 90 per cent effective based on Phase 3 trial.India’s Covid-19 tally on Tuesday crossed 8.59 million, according to the Union health ministry’s data. In the last 24 hours, India reported 38,073 new Covid-19 cases and 448 fresh fatalities, taking the death toll to 127,059.The current Covid-19 tally stands at 8,591,730 in the country. India so far has lodged over 7.9 million recoveries from the coronavirus disease, the highest recovery count in the world, the health ministry further said.“In India, recovered cases have crossed 79 lakhs, which is the highest in the world. On average, 51,476 cases have recovered daily in the last week,” said Rajesh Bhushan, secretary of the Union health ministry.Meanwhile, India has so far conducted nearly 12 crore tests for Covid-19. “More than 11.96 crore Covid-19 tests conducted till now; more than 11 lakh tests conducted daily during last week. Daily positivity rate during last week recorded at 4.2 per cent,” the health ministry said.“India’s Covid tests are the second-highest in the world. If we take the last two weeks figures, we’re testing more than any other country in the world. So, we should look at the brighter side of the current situation in testing,” the ministry added.According to the data provided by the health ministry on Tuesday, 54 per cent of new Covid-19 cases reported in last 24 hours are from six states and Union territories, including Delhi, West Bengal, Kerala, Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-pfizer-s-big-announcement-india-says-in-touch-with-all-covid-19-vaccine-manufacturers/story-sQ66ZS8so95hGL4JkxOvvK.html
10-11-2020||India||Haryana by-poll win for Congress reinforces Hooda’s clout among Jats||The opposition Congress retained the Baroda assembly seat in Haryana by securing a fourth consecutive victory from this rural Jat dominated seat since 2009 assembly polls.The Congress candidate Indu Raj Narwal, 40, who comes from Rindhana village defeated BJP candidate and Olympian wrestler Yogeshwar Dutt by 10, 566 votes. Dutt bagged 50,070 votes, while Narwal got 60,636 votes. The Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) nominee Joginder Singh Malik, who performed slight better than in the 2019 assembly polls, bagged only 5,003 votes while the Loktantra Suraksha party chief Raj Kumar Saini failed to make a mark on the Jat turf and got only 5,611 votes. Both Malik and Saini failed to save their security deposit. A total 469 votes were polled for None of the above (NOTA) voting options on the EVM.The by-poll was a battle of prestige for former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, who managed to guard his bastion and demonstrate his influence, particularly in the Deswali belt. Narwal’s win took the Congress tally to 31 in the state assembly.Yogeshwar Dutt has witnessed the second consecutive defeat from Baroda seat after joining the saffron party having quit as deputy superintendent of police (DSP) last year.Bihar Election Results: Full coverageIn the 2019 assembly elections, Sri Krishan Hooda of the Congress got 42,566 votes, defeating Yogeshwar Dutt, who bagged 37,726 votes and INLD’s Joginder Malik, who got only 3,145 votes.Reacting to his defeat, Dutt said he will introspect on the reason for losing the election.“I want to thank my party leadership for reposing faith and fielding me again from this seat. The Baroda voters have given me more love and affection than the previous election,” he added. Also Read: BJP’s Dubbak by-poll win serves a warning to TRS in TelanganaIndu Raj Narwal dedicated his win to party workers and farmers.“I got my nomination due to Bhupinder Singh Hooda. This is a joint win of Hooda sahab and farmers, who are fighting against this arrogant government. Deepender Hooda and Bhupinder Singh Hooda fought my election and ensured a thumping majority,” he added.The Baroda assembly seat recorded a turnout of 68% during voting on November 3. There were 14 candidates in the fray from the constituency. The seat fell vacant in April following the death of Congress MLA Krishan Hooda, who had won the seat thrice in 2009, 2014 and 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-by-poll-win-for-congress-reinforces-hooda-s-clout-among-jats/story-YUPbCKzjJu31bTSqcDsDPO.html
10-11-2020||India||Gujarat bypolls: Congress turncoat wins Abdasa seat on BJP ticket||BJP’s Pradhyumansinh Jadeja on Tuesday defeated his nearest Congress rival Shantilal Senghani by a margin of 36,778 votes from Abdasa Assembly seat in Kutch district of Gujarat, the Election Commission said.Counting of votes in the rest seven seats, where bypolls were held on November 3, is underway.The ruling BJP is leading in all the seven seats.Click here for LIVE updates of Gujarat bypollsWhile Jadeja secured 71,848 votes, Senghani was polled 35,070 votes. Independent candidate Hanif Padyar garnered 26,463 votes.Jadeja had won Abdasa seat in 2017 on the Congress ticket.He was one of the five turncoat MLAs of the Congress who had joined the BJP after resigning from their parent party earlier this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-bypolls-congress-turncoat-wins-abdasa-seat-on-bjp-ticket/story-vDwt7z8hwyzcwwuizFWGTM.html
10-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: UK trying to sort out Mallya extradition issue as quickly as possible and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.UK trying to sort out Mallya extradition issue as quickly as possibleThe UK is trying to resolve as quickly as possible the “confidential” legal issue holding up the extradition of fugitive businessman and former member of parliament Vijay Mallya to India, Britain’s acting high commissioner Jan Thompson said on Tuesday. Read moreBihar election results: BJP wins Darbhanga and Keoti, emerges as single-largest party; JD(U) in third placeThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has tasted first victory in the Bihar Assembly election. Its candidates have won from Darbhanga and Keoti Assembly seats, according to Election Commission. Read moreRepeated attempts being made to bring bilateral issues into SCO agenda, says PM Modi at virtual summitWhile speaking at the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) Summit on Tuesday, the Prime Minister Narendra Modi emphasised on the importance of countries respecting each other’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. Read moreIPL 2020 Final, MI vs DC Preview: Mumbai Indians favourites to retain title against upbeat Delhi Capitals“Even my mother can lead this Australian side,” former New Zealand all-rounder Chris Cairns had famously quipped while talking about the great Australian team of the late 90s and 2000s, which went on to win three successive ICC World Cup titles and ruled the roost in Test cricket. That Australian team had an aura of invincibility around itself, which was a by-product of the unparalleled talent it had in store. It was a team that ticked every box and the opposition failed to find a chink in their armour. Read moreRanveer Singh jumps on the roof of his car, delivers important message to sea of fans. Watch videoA video of actor Ranveer Singh, up to his usual antics, is being widely shared on social media. The video shows the famously flamboyant actor, on the roof of his car, surrounded by a sea of fans. Read moreTwitter launches custom Diwali emojiTwitter today announced the launch of a customised emoji for Diwali. The new Diwali emoji can be activated with dedicated hashtags on Twitter, and it’s available in different regional languages as well. Read moreHarley-Davidson left us in the dark, say dealers on India exitAs a part of its new ‘Rewire’ strategy, Harley-Davidson confirmed its India exit in September. The news came as a shock since Harley was the first premium motorcycle brand in the country to set up shop officially and locally manufacture its bikes in India. The company dealers said in a FADA organised conference on Tuesday that they were kept in the dark regarding the company’s future plans and the news struck a huge blow as Harley-Davidson never officially informed its dealer body about its India exit. Read moreWoman bags world record title for completing largest hand-drawn maze in 3 monthsIf you loved solving mazes as a child, a video shared by Guinness World Record may amaze you thoroughly. Even if you didn’t, the intricate design and the hardwork behind the feat will leave you impressed. Read moreWatch why Donald Trump slammed Covid vaccine breakthrough claim by PfizerDonald Trump, the outgoing President of the United States of America, criticised pharma major Pfizer a day after it announced a breakthrough in its research to find a vaccine for Covid-19. The latter claimed that the vaccine it developed with BioNTech showed 90% effectiveness in preventing infection as per a study of initial evidence in the ongoing Phase 3 trial. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-uk-trying-to-sort-out-mallya-extradition-issue-as-quickly-as-possible-and-all-the-latest-news/story-9kjUbkYSBVlWoNgNTOOz3O.html
10-11-2020||India||KCR announces Rs 50 lakh, house site, govt job for family of soldier killed in J-K encounter||Chief Minister of Telangana, K Chandrashekhar Rao on Tuesday announced Rs 50 lakh financial assistance to the family of Army Jawan Ryada Mahesh, who lost his life in the anti-terror operation at the Jammu and Kashmir Machil sector.The Chief Minister also said that one member of the family based on the qualification would be given a government job and a house site would also be allotted to the family. Mahesh would be remembered in history as the one who sacrificed his life for the country, said the chief minister.Ryada Mahesh of Nizamabad district in Telangana was among four Indian Army personnel who were killed in an encounter at Machil sector of Kupwara district in Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday.During the joint operation, the Indian security forces also eliminated three terrorists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kcr-announces-rs-50-lakh-house-site-govt-job-for-family-of-soldier-killed-in-j-k-encounter/story-5Uo3fawhVTz14gmvbovl6N.html
10-11-2020||India||Finance minister asks banks to ensure all accounts are linked with Aadhaar by March 2021||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday asked banks to ensure that all accounts are linked with Aadhaar numbers of respective customers by March 31, 2021.She said the financial inclusion story is not over and banks still have inclusion to carry forward. There are many accounts which are not linked with Aadhaar.“… by March 31, 2021, every account should have a PAN where needed and where applicable, and Aadhaar in every one of your accounts,” Sitharaman said while addressing the 73rd annual general meeting of the Indian Banks’ Association (IBA).She said banks should discourage non-digital payments and should bank on promotion of digital payments techniques and also adopt many of the UPI driven payments.“UPI should be a common parlance word in all our banks,” the finance minister said, adding that banks should promote RuPay cards.“Whoever needs the card, RuPay will be the only card you will promote,” she said.Sitharaman also said that the country is thirsting for large banks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/finance-minister-asks-banks-to-ensure-all-accounts-are-linked-with-aadhaar-by-march-2021/story-PPc7iwjM8SW1Lp73S5oygP.html
10-11-2020||India||Foreign secretary Shringla holds bilateral meetings with Maldivian leadership||Foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla on Tuesday held a series of meetings with the Maldivian leadership and the Opposition and discussed ways to further strengthen India’s relations with the island nation, and reviewed progress of key infrastructure projects under the USD 1.3 billion bilateral package.Shringla, who is on a two-day visit to Maldives, held a joint meeting with minister for national planning, housing and infrastructure Mohamed Aslam, minister of economic development Fayyaz Ismail and minister of finance Ibrahim Ameer.On Monday, Shringla also called on President of Maldives Ibrahim Mohamed Solih and Speaker of the People’s Majlis Mohamed Nasheed.“FS@harshvshringla held a joint-meeting with Minister for National Planning, Housing & Infra Dvpt @AslamAslamtey Minister of Economic Dvpt@faya_i& Minister of Finance @iameeru; they assessed progress in 8 infrastructure projects part of the $1.3 billion bilateral package,” the High Commission of India in Maldives tweeted.India is carrying out a wide-range of infrastructure projects in Maldives, including Greater Male Connectivity Project (GMCP) and other projects such as port, roads and reclamation, expansion of airports, building of a new Cricket Stadium and cancer hospital and development of fisheries.Shringla also met Maldivian Home Minister and leader of the Adaalath Party Imran Abdulla and sought the party’s cooperation in further strengthening the bilateral relations.The religious conservative Adaalath party is part of the Maldivian Democratic Party-led ruling coalition.“Foreign Secretary @harshvshringla @HarshShringla met Home Minister & leader of the Adaalath Party @ShimranAb; FS sought continuing cooperation of the Adaalath Party in ensuring the success of #IndiaMaldives relations,” it said in another tweet.In keeping with the democratic traditions India and the Maldives share, Shringla also met the leadership of the Opposition Progressive-Congress Coalition.“He briefed them on India-supported projects in the Maldives, being undertaken as per Maldivian priorities,” it tweeted.“The opposition coalition recognised India’s historical assistance and expressed strong support for further deepening #IndiaMaldives relations,” it said.The foreign secretary also called on former president Maumoon Abdul Gayoom and acknowledged his valuable contribution in laying a solid foundation of the India-Maldives partnership and sought his continued support for bilateral ties.In a tweet, Gayoom said, “Indian FS @harshvshringla called on me today. We had a wide-ranging discussion on our excellent bilateral relations. Once again I reiterated my thanks to successive Indian governments for their outstanding support to Maldives for over many decades.” On Monday, India and the Maldives signed two Memorandum of Understandings (MoUs), including one for a USD 100 million grant to fund the Greater Male Connectivity Project, that are emblematic of the strong development partnership which is multi-faceted and designed to meet the specific requirements of the government and people of Maldives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreign-secretary-shringla-holds-bilateral-meetings-with-maldivian-leadership/story-XV5udjKpqWvEPU62HhcapM.html
10-11-2020||India||India will use its vaccine production, distribution capacity to help humanity fight Covid-19: PM Modi at SCO summit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said that India will use its vaccine production and distribution capacity to help the world fight the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. The prime minister was speaking at the 20th summit of SCO Council of Heads of State which was held virtually. In his remarks, the prime minister said that India is the “largest vaccine producting country” in the world.“In this very difficult time of unprecedented epidemic, India’s pharma industry has sent essential medicines to more than 150 countries. As the world’s largest vaccine producing country, India will use its vaccine production and distribution capacity to help the whole humanity in fighting this crisis,” PM Modi said.The prime minister was addressing the summit attended by top leaders of eight countries including Russia, China and Pakistan, who are the SCO members. In 2017, India became a full member of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation Council of Heads of State and ever since then, PM Modi has been leading the Indian delegation to the summit which is held annually. During the summit, the council sets the agenda and main directions for the next year.PM Modi further pushed for new UN reforms. “The United Nations (UN) has completed its 75 years. But despite many successes, the basic goal of the United Nations is still incomplete. The world, which is suffering from the economic and social suffering of the epidemic, is expected to bring about a complete change in the system of the UN,” the prime minister said.This year’s SCO summit which was held through video conference was chaired by Russian President Vladimir Putin and each country was given 10 minutes to speak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-will-use-its-vaccine-production-distribution-capacity-to-help-humanity-fight-covid-19-pm-modi-at-sco-summit/story-ypPTzOv5n12OCzA9pEVeQP.html
10-11-2020||India||Manipur bypolls: BJP wins 1 seat, Independent supported by BJP wins 1||BJP candidate Oinam Lukhoi Singh won the by-election to the Wangoi seat, while Y Antas Khan, an Independent candidate supported by the saffron party bagged the Lilong seat in Manipur, officials said Tuesday. BJP candidates Paonam Brojen Singh and Ngamthang Haokip were leading from Wangjing Tentha and Saitu seats respectively, they said.Oinam Lukhoi Singh won the Wangoi seat by defeating his nearest rival Khuraijam Loken Singh of the National People’s Party by 257 votes, as per the ECI website. In the Lilong seat, Y Antas Khan won by defeating his nearest rival Mohd Abdul Nasir by 3,078 votes. Paonam Brojen Singh was leading over his nearest rival Moirangthem Hemanta Singh of the Congress by over 1,560 seats in the Wangjin Tentha seat.In Saitu constituency, Ngamthang Haokip was ahead of his Congress rival Lamtinthang Haokip by 4,297 votes.The by-polls held on November 7 were necessitated after Congress MLAs of these four seats resigned from the assembly and joined the ruling BJP. The BJP contested in three seats and supported an Independent candidate in Lilong, while the Congress fielded its nominees in all the four constituencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-bypolls-bjp-wins-1-seat-independent-supported-by-bjp-wins-1/story-tkDO1Ird3xxsbzUkqryrxO.html
10-11-2020||India||No crackers for Diwali in Lucknow, 12 other UP cities with poor air quality||Uttar Pradesh chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari on Tuesday directed all district magistrates to ensure strict compliance with the National Green Tribunal’s (NGT) order banning sale and bursting of crackers in cities with severe, very poor or poor air quality.The government has identified 13 cities, including Lucknow, on the basis of the average ambient air quality found in November last year to enforce the NGT directions. Eight of these cities, including Ghaziabad, Noida, Greater Noda, Baghpat and Bulandshahr ( “severe” category), Meerut and Hapur (“very poor”) and Muzaffarnagar (“poor”) are in the National Capital Region (NCR). The five other cities are Kanpur, Lucknow and Moradabad (“severe” category), Agra and Varanasi where the air quality has been found to be “very poor”.The chief secretary has said in a circular that only digital/laser and similar other techniques could be used to celebrate Diwali in these cities according to the NGT order.“The other cities where air quality is “moderate” or below, only green crackers can be sold and used,” the circular said.In an order on November 9, NGT directed states, “There will be ban against sale or use of all kinds of crackers in the NCR from midnight of November 9-10, 2020 to November 30-December 1.” It said that the direction would be reviewed thereafter.“The direction will also apply to all cities and towns in the country, where the average of ambient air quality during November (as per available data of last year) falls under “poor” and above category,” the NGT order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-crackers-for-diwali-in-lucknow-12-other-up-cities-with-poor-air-quality/story-oqKJEW9dOjQW1BZmQpXSLJ.html
10-11-2020||India||T’gana bypolls: Close contest in Dubbak; BJP gains slender lead after 20 rounds of counting||The ruling TRS and opposition BJP were locked in a neck and neck contest in the Dubbak Assembly bypoll and the saffron party gained a slender lead of 240 votes after the completion of 20 rounds of counting of votes on Tuesday.The BJP was ahead of the TRS in initial rounds, but the ruling party bounced back and secured a lead subsequently.The TRS was ahead by 251 votes after 19 rounds, but the BJP again managed to gain upper hand after the 20th round with 240 votes.The counting of votes is expected to be completed in 23 rounds.The bypoll, held on November 3, has been necessitated due to the death of sitting TRS MLA Solipeta Ramalinga Reddy in August this year due to health issues and the TRS has fielded his widow Sujatha as its candidate.Though 20 others are also in the fray, the main contest is among the ruling TRS, BJP and Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/t-gana-bypolls-close-contest-in-dubbak-bjp-gains-slender-lead-after-20-rounds-of-counting/story-fDuylYhXP2Aqh8uvuoxBAL.html
10-11-2020||India||Trends in Gujarat bypolls show BJP has support of all sections, says CM Rupani||With the trends of counting of votes on Tuesday showing the BJP leading in all eight assembly constituencies in Gujarat, the party workers broke into celebration and burst firecrackers at its headquarter here.Chief Minister Vijay Rupani told reporters the BJP’s showing in these by elections was just a “trailer” of the outcome to be expected in upcoming elections to local bodies and in 2022 assembly polls.The BJP is ahead in all the eight seats while the Congress is trailing behind as counting of votes polled for the Assembly bypolls progressed.The CM and state BJP president CR Paatil arrived at the party headquarter “Kamalam”, where they were greeted by upbeat BJP workers who thumped drums and waved the party flags.Women activists broke into a garba gig while holding small cutouts of lotus, the poll symbol of the BJP, in their hands.Rupani said voters have rejected the “negative campaign and activities” of the Congress in Gujarat, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, where counting for bypolls is underway.“Today BJP has emerged victorious across the country, whether it is Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh or Gujarat.This outcome is the result of the work done by Narendra Modi government and the support of people for the BJP,” the CM said.Click here for LIVE updates on Gujarat bypollsHailing voters for exercising the franchise for the bypolls held on November 3 amidst the Covid-19 pandemic, Rupani said the constituencies were spread in different regions of Gujarat and consisted of areas dominated by Muslims, Adivasis, Kolis and Patidars among others.“In all these areas, the BJP has received a huge lead.The BJP bagged more votes than the Congress everywhere. As I had said earlier, this election will prove to be the last nail in the Congress’ coffin,” Rupani said.He said Gujarat will continue to remain a BJP bastion where the Congress has recorded its worst-ever electoral performance.Paatil said the BJP and its workers were confident of winning all the eight seats.“The voters reposed their faith in the BJP and ensured a grand victory for the party. I thank all of them,” he said.He said people supported the BJP for the welfare and developmental works done by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trends-in-gujarat-bypolls-show-bjp-has-support-of-all-sections-says-cm-rupani/story-JgaahhXirpn4U7qSDW5fLK.html
10-11-2020||India||Goa professor booked for ‘outraging religious sentiments’||The Goa police have booked a professor at Panaji’s V M Salgaocar College of Law for allegedly “outraging religious sentiments” in a Facebook post on mangalsutras and burqas.Shilpa Surendra Pratap Singh, the professor, insisted her post was academic in nature and was not intended to hurt sentiments. “...it was taken totally out of context. It was never my intention to ridicule religion or women. Since my childhood, I have been curious on questions why we have exclusive marital status symbols for women and not for men in various cultures practices. It is depressing to see that a false opinion has been created about myself by my detractors - that I am an ‘anti-religion’ or a run-of-the-mill ‘god-hating atheist.’ This is far from the truth,” Singh said in a subsequent post. “I wish to express my regret to my fellow women if any of my Facebook posts have caused them hurt and offended them”Singh said her criticism of a set of practices and dogma has little to do with disdain or irreverence for religion or religious believers but more to do with the symbolism they represent.Also Read: Thieves steal cash, electronic items from Se Cathedral heritage site in Old GoaShe has also filed a police complaint alleging she was being threatened. “...instead of countering the point made by me in a rational or logical manner, mob justice is being meted out to me by certain people and organisations with vested interests. I am afraid that this may degenerate into vigilante actions that are aimed at suppressing my voice and even cause physical harm to me,” she said.“My modesty is being outraged, my mental health is being assaulted and yet nobody is able to stop these threatening visuals since it is driven by men. Since men hold all positions of power everywhere, a female will always be penalised for her free thinking.”A First Information Report based on her complaint has also been registered.Earlier Maharashtra branch of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad sought her sacking even as her students and college rallied behind her.She was booked after Ravi Jha, a member of the Rashtriya Hindu Yuva Vahini, filed a complaint against her for insulting religious belief.“We have booked a case under section 295A of the Indian Penal Code and have begun investigating. We have asked her to explain her post,” Police Inspector Sudesh Naik said. Singh could face up to five years if convicted under the section that has been applied, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-professor-booked-for-outraging-religious-sentiments/story-3JljDgc6djd8fQ85X8npKN.html
10-11-2020||India||UK trying to resolve issue holding up Vijay Mallya’s extradition as quickly as possible||The UK is trying to resolve as quickly as possible the “confidential” legal issue holding up the extradition of fugitive businessman and former member of parliament Vijay Mallya to India, Britain’s acting high commissioner Jan Thompson said on Tuesday. Extradition proceedings against the liquor baron concluded in May after the UK high court rejected Mallya’s plea to approach Britain’s Supreme Court against the move to send him back to India, but the secret proceedings have held up his departure. Asked about the matter at a virtual news briefing, Thompson said it wouldn’t be possible for her to provide a precise timing for Mallya’s extradition. “I think you are probably aware, because we’ve said it a number of times, there is a further legal issue that needs resolving before we would be in a position to extradite Mr Mallya.” Also Read: India seeks expeditious extradition of Vijay Mallya, Nirav Modi from UKShe said the extradition had “been ordered some time ago”, and it was “difficult for me to comment on it very substantively” because it is a legal matter. “But the extradition cannot take place until that particular legal issue is resolved. It’s a confidential issue, I can’t say any more on it. Nor can I estimate how long it will take to be resolved, but what I can is that we’re trying to resolve the issue as quickly as we can,” Thompson said. India has already said it is not a party to the “secret legal matter” in the UK that has held up Mallya’s extradition. External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a news briefing in October that the secret legal matter “is yet to be resolved, and that without its resolution, he cannot be extradited”. “We are not a party to this matter and we continue to be in touch with the UK government,” Srivastava had said at the time. The UK magistrate’s court recommended Mallya’s extradition on December 10, 2018. Mallya’s appeal against this order was dismissed by the UK high court on April 20 this year. Mallya then applied to the UK high court for leave to appeal in the Supreme Court and it was rejected on May 14. He has exhausted all avenues for appeal. There has been speculation in London that the most likely issue holding up Mallya’s extradition was an application for asylum, a process on which British authorities do not publicly comment on individual cases as a matter of policy and strict data protection laws. Mallya flew to the UK in March 2016 as a consortium of Indian banks, which claims he owes Rs9,000 crore in principal and interest on loans extended to his defunct Kingfisher Airlines, closed in on him to recover the money. He was subsequently declared a wilful defaulter in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-trying-to-resolve-issue-holding-up-vijay-mallya-s-extradition-as-quickly-as-possible/story-lC23ZUXnJjLrsGwDTPqt4J.html
10-11-2020||India||MP by-polls: Scindia congratulates BJP’s winning candidates, thanks voters||As the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) took a lead in the Madhya Pradesh by-polls, party leader Jyotiraditya Scindia on Tuesday congratulated all the winning candidates and thanked the voters as well. “Heartiest congratulations to all the candidates of the Bharatiya Janata Party who won the MP Assembly by-elections. At the same time, heartfelt gratitude to all the devout voters. I am confident that all the winning candidates will always be ready for public service and proper development of their constituency,” Scindia tweeted (roughly translated from Hindi).“Congratulations and best wishes to BJP candidate Hardeep Dang Ji for winning by a huge majority in the by-election of Suwasra Assembly,” he added.The BJP is leading on 21 seats, while Congress and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) are ahead on six and one seats, respectively in Madhya Pradesh by-polls, as per the Election Commission of India (ECI) on Tuesday.As per the ECI at 3 pm, BJP’s vote share stands at 51.3% with its candidates leading in Gwalior, Gwalior East, Dabra, Bamori, Ambah, Sanwer, Bandawar and Jaura seats, among others.Meanwhile, Congress candidates, with 39.9% combined vote share, are ahead on Agar, Karera, Biaora, Sumaoli, Dimani and Gohad seats.Celebrations are underway at BJP headquarters in Bhopal.BJP workers and supporters, carrying banners of Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and Jyotiraditya Scindia, danced to the beats of dhol outside the party office.The result of 28 assembly constituencies in Madhya Pradesh will decide the fate of Chief Minister Chouhan led-BJP government, which requires at least eight more MLAs for a clear majority in the state assembly.Jyotiraditya Scindia, a prominent face of the Congress, had resigned from the party on March 11 this year. Scindia’s decision to leave Congress was followed by the resignation of 22 party MLAs loyal to him. He later joined BJP.These resignations paved the way for BJP’s Shivraj Singh Chouhan to take over as Madhya Pradesh chief minister for the fourth time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-by-polls-scindia-congratulates-bjp-s-winning-candidates-thanks-voters/story-DdClW1egz9lhptFx5FVTBP.html
10-11-2020||India||SC tells HC to hear AAP govt’s plea on ICU beds on Thursday||The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to interfere with the Delhi high court’s order staying the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government’s instruction to private hospitals in the city to reserve a substantial number of beds in intensive care unit (ICU) for Covid-19 patients.The AAP government issued an order on September 12 asking 33 private hospitals in the city to reserve 80% ICU beds for Covid-19 patients. This order was stayed by the Delhi HC on September 22 on a petition by the Association of Healthcare Providers. Later, on October 9, a division bench of the Delhi high court took up an appeal by the Delhi government, refusing to vacate the stay while adjourning the matter to November 27. The AAP government approached the apex court against these two orders of September 22 and October 9.The apex bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and BR Gavai raised a preliminary objection against hearing the case. The bench said, “We know the problem faced by Delhi as cases (of Covid-19) are increasing. But the October 9 order passed by the Delhi high court has merely adjourned the matter. How can a special leave petition (SLP) be entertained against such an order?”Additional solicitor general (ASG) Sanjay Jain appearing for the Delhi government pressed the panic button citing the upcoming Diwali festival. He said, “We are willing to go back to the Delhi high court but we request if the HC judgment could be stayed for a week as this week is crucial. Due to Diwali, people are intermingling and cases will go beyond control… If our order (of September 12) would not have been stayed, we could have got 500 more beds to admit Covid-19 patients. The current requirement is for more than 6000 beds and Delhi government hospitals, put together, can provide only up to 4,000 beds.”The bench told Jain, “We are aware that the situation in the city is worsening. Delhi has a problem, sometimes 5,000, sometimes 10,000; this is a fluctuating situation… You can bring this matter to the attention of the high court.”Jain explained that in the last few days, daily average of Covid-9 cases crossed the 7,000 mark. “If possible, please understand my predicament. The city is facing an extraordinary situation. Lots of people from other states are coming into Delhi for better healthcare. A large number of people in the middle class segment in the city prefer to get admitted to private hospitals.” He submitted that the order to reserve 80% ICU beds applied only to 33 private hospitals and was meant to be a temporary measure. “We won’t insist on reserving 80% beds beyond a week or two weeks,” Jain said.Also Read: Centre’s timely intervention could have reduced pollution surge in Delhi: Gopal RaiThe Association of Healthcare Providers, the petitioner before the high court, appeared on caveat and objected to any stay of the HC order. Senior advocate Maninder Singh informed the Court that the high court was functioning till November 12 and till date, no request for early hearing has been made before the division bench. Even the matter arising out of the September 22 order was listed for hearing on November 18. Singh said he had no objection if the top court directs the matter to be heard by the high court this week.The bench recorded this submission and stated in its order, “Looking to the facts of the case and the request made by learned counsel for the parties, we request the concerned Bench (of the Delhi high court) for taking up the letters patent appeal (LPA) on November 12.”Bihar Election Results: Full coverageDelhi government’s standing counsel Chirag M Shroff presented a chart before the apex court showing the availability of ICU beds in Delhi’s government hospitals vis-à-vis private hospitals. In its petition, the Delhi government stated that out of a total of 1,263 registered hospitals and nursing homes, 88 are government-run hospitals while 1,175 fall under private sector. There are 168 private hospitals in Delhi (including the 33 hospitals asked to reserve ICU beds) having 3,239 ICU beds.The Delhi HC in its September 22 order held, “The State cannot discriminate between a Covid-19 and a non-Covid-19 patient requiring emergent treatment. In time of emergency, such patients cannot be told to run around finding a hospital where beds have not been reserved for Covid-19 patients.” Though the HC accepted a surge in the number of Covid-19 patients, it felt that the government’s decision was “arbitrary, unreasonable and violative of Article 21 (right to life)” of non-Covid patients suffering from life-threatening diseases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-tells-hc-to-hear-aap-govt-s-plea-on-icu-beds-on-thursday/story-mpiB2qfIi5l2xFMbNy1kjL.html
10-11-2020||India||Six properties of Dawood Ibrahim in Ratnagiri auctioned today||Six properties of underworld don and India’s most wanted terrorist Dawood Ibrahim at his ancestral place Ratnagiri were auctioned by the Smugglers and Foreign Exchange Manipulators (Forfeiture of Property) Authority (SAFEMA) on Tuesday.While four of the properties were successfully bid by Delhi-based lawyer Bhupendra Bhardwaj in the virtual auction held today, the other two bids were won by advocate Ajay Srivastava.“We had an excellent response in the auction. The six properties at Ratnagiri and Goregaon have been sold. While four bids were won by Bhupendra Bharadwaj, two were won by Ajay Shrivastava,” SAFEMA Additional Commissioner RN D’Souza told reporters here.He said the highest bid for two of the properties went from the reserve price of Rs 1.89 lakh and Rs 5.35 lakh to Rs 4.3 lakh and Rs 11.2 lakh respectively. He added that the other properties went for their base prices.One other property, belonging to Dawood Ibrahim, was however withdrawn from the auction by officials due to some technical reasons.“We auction in all three modes -- public auction, e-auction and silk tender. But, this being a very peculiar situation during the Covid-19 pandemic. So, we had to improvise a little. Instead of having a public auction, we conducted a virtual public auction,” D’Souza said.The officials said there were several enquiries for the Mylton apartment, owned by gangster Iqbal Mirchi, but no bids were received for the same.“As per the procedure, 25 per cent of the bid amount has to be deposited within seven days if the total amount is below Rs 50 lakh, if above 50 lakh, 25 per cent of the bid needs to be deposited within a period of one month. The rest of the amount can be deposited within one month and three months respectively. After the entire payment is made a confirmation letter will be issued communicating the same,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-properties-of-dawood-ibrahim-in-ratnagiri-auctioned-today/story-hQ4rGSInJAtOASPnHF59HJ.html
10-11-2020||India||PM Modi calls for ‘reformed multilateralism’ to reflect global realities||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday called for “reformed multilateralism” that reflects global realities of the present times and discussed topics such as expectations of all stakeholders, contemporary challenges and human welfare.Addressing the 20th Summit of Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) Council of Heads of State, via video-conferencing, Prime Minister Modi said the United Nations has completed its 75 years but the basic goal of the world body is still incomplete.“The United Nations has completed its 75 years. But despite many successes, the basic goal of the United Nations is still incomplete. The world struggling with the economic and social suffering of the epidemic is expected to bring radical changes in the system of the UN,” PM Modi said.“A reformed multilateralism that will reflect today’s global realities and discuss topics such as expectations of all stakeholders, contemporary challenges and human welfare. We expect full support from SCO member nations in this endeavour,” he added.Member states of the SCO was convened at the highest level on Tuesday under the chairmanship of Russia. It was attended by all member states including China and Pakistan. Major leaders that are attending the SCO meet are Chinese President Xi Jinping, Pakistan’s Prime Minister Imran Khan, Russian President Vladimir Putin, and leaders of four Central Asian countries - Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan.This is the third meeting, in which New Delhi is participating as a full member.It was granted the observer status of the SCO in 2005 and in June 2017 it became a full member.The summit is expected to conclude with the release of a Moscow declaration, which will reflect the broad agenda of the bloc for 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-calls-for-reformed-multilateralism-to-reflect-global-realities/story-vnio0kum4WFnasQBGDMH1N.html
10-11-2020||India||UP: BJP leads on 6 seats, SP on 1||The ruling BJP appeared set to retain six seats while the Samajwadi Party may get re-elected from the one it held earlier as counting of votes in the bypolls for seven Uttar Pradesh Assembly constituencies continued on Tuesday. BJP’s Usha Sirohi was leading in Bulandshahr, Prem Pal Dhangar in Tundla, Shrikant Katiyar in Bangarmau, Satya Prakash Mani Tripathi in Deoria, Upendra Nath Paswan in Ghatampur and Sangeeta Chauhan in Naugawan Sadat, according to the latest trends . In Malhani, SP’s Lucky Yadav was ahead of independent candidate Dhananjay Singh by 3,029 votes. The seat was earlier with SP’s Parasnath Yadav. A tough contest was on for the Naugawan Sadat seat held earlier by Chetan Chauhan, the former cricketer who was minister in Yogi Adityanath’s BJP government. SP’s Javed Abbas was trailing there by 1,862 votes to his BJP rival Sangeeta Chauhan. In Bulandshahr, BJP’s Usha Sirohi was leading by 9,841 votes over Bahujan Samaj Party’s Mohammed Yunus. In Tundla, BJP’s Prempal Singh Dhanghar was ahead of SP’s Mahraj Singh Dhangar by 4,945 votes. BJP’s Shrikant Katiyar was leading by 12,978 votes over Arti Bajpai of the Congress in Bangarmau. In Ghatampur, BJP’s Upendra Nath Paswan was leading by 3,618 votes over the BSP’s Kuldeep Shankhwar. In Deoria, BJP’s Satyaprakash Mani Tripathi had a lead of 5,443 over SP’s Brahma Shankar Tripathi. The bypolls for the seven UP seats recorded a voter turnout of 53 per cent on November 3, when 88 candidates were in the fray. Barring Malhani, which was with the Samajwadi Party, the other seats were earlier held by the BJP. The Naugawan Sadat seat fell vacant after the death of minister Chetan Chauhan who died of COVID-19. The Ghatampur constituency in Kanpur Nagar district was held by another minister, Kamal Rani Varun, who too died of the disease. The Tundla seat fell vacant after its MLA S P Singh Baghel was elected to the Lok Sabha. The Bangarmau seat in Unnao was vacated by BJP MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar after his conviction in a rape case. The bypolls to the Bulandshahr, Deoria and Malhani seats were necessitated by the deaths of BJP MLAs Virendra Singh Sirohi and Janmejay Singh, and SP’s Parasnath Yadav. Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad’s Azad Samaj Party has fielded Mohammad Yameen from Bulandshahr to test its electoral popularity. The Bulandshahr seat had the highest number of 18 candidates while Ghatampur seat had the lowest of six. Sixteen candidates were in the fray in Malhani, 14 each in Naugaon Sadat and Deoria and 10 each in Bangarmau and Tundla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-bjp-leads-on-6-seats-sp-on-1/story-T3TvDE336mAwAySkfjVvjP.html
10-11-2020||India||Kerala HC grants anticipatory bail to activist who attacked YouTuber||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday granted anticipatory bail to dubbing artist and activist Bhagyalakshmi and two of her friends accused of manhandling YouTuber Vijay P Nair in September.Police had registered a case against three after they allegedly trespassed into a lodge where Nair was staying on September 26 and assaulted him for making derogatory remarks against women on his YouTube channel. The incident was live-streamed on the Facebook account of one of the accused. The issue triggered a debate in the state with many activists and others hailing the “direct action”.They said they were forced to take action after police failed to act on their complaint. The police later arrested Vijay P Nair but he was released on bail. Following the incident the state government had decided to bring an ordinance to deal with cyber attack on women.All three were charged under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation), 452 (house trespassing) and 392 (robbery) of the Indian Penal Code. In the first week of October, the chief judicial magistrate court had rejected their anticipatory bail plea after accepting the contention of the prosecution that it would give a wrong message and it may prompt others to take law into their hands. They later approached the High Court. The petitioners contended that they went to the lodge to talk to Nair about his video and they had no intention to attack or commit robbery. They said they seized videos and other materials and deposited them at the nearest police station immediately and they told police officials about the incident. They also said they bought an ink bottle to pour on him and humiliate but they had no intention to manhandle him.Though the High Court took a strong position in the case initially saying those who take law into their hands should also be ready to face its consequences, Justice Ashok Menon granted them anticipatory bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-hc-grants-anticipatory-bail-to-activist-who-attacked-youtuber/story-MqB1sba0j2tMT5NVDWSV5J.html
10-11-2020||India||Repeated attempts being made to bring bilateral issues into SCO agenda, says PM Modi at virtual summit||While speaking at the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) Summit on Tuesday, the Prime Minister Narendra Modi emphasised on the importance of countries respecting each other’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. “India has strong cultural and historical ties with Shanghai Cooperation Organisation countries. Respecting one another’s sovereignty, territorial integrity should be a basic principle while enhancing connectivity,” PM Modi said.PM Narendra Modi, during his virtual speech, also pointed out the attempts being made to hinder with the SCO’s agenda. “It is unfortunate that repeated attempts are being made to unnecessarily bring bilateral issues into the SCO agenda, which violate the SCO Charter and Shanghai Spirit. Such efforts are contrary to the spirit of consensus and cooperation that defines SCO,” he added.The prime minister was virtually addressing the 20th summit of SCO Council of Heads of State, which comes against the backdrop of the India-China border conflict. Ever since India became a full member of the SCO Council of Heads and State in 2017, PM Modi has been leading the Indian delegation to the annual summit. However, this is the first time that the annual meeting was held virtually due to the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. During the 9-minute speech, the prime minister further highlighted India’s strong opposition against terrorism and drug smuggling. “India strongly believes in peace, security and prosperity, and we have always voiced opposition to terrorism, illegal arms smuggling, drugs and money laundering. India has remained firm in its commitment to work under the SCO as per the principles laid down in the SCO Charter,” he said.Calling for a “reformed multilateralism” that reflects today’s global realities, the PM suggested that countries also discuss topics such as “expectations of all stakeholders, contemporary challenges, and human welfare”.“We expect full support from SCO member nations in this endeavour,” he said.The Shanghai Cooperation Organisation Summit sets the agenda and main directions for the next year. The virtual meeting on Tuesday was attended by the eight SCO members: Russia, China, India, Pakistan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan.Russian President Vladimir Putin chaired the virtual meeting on Tuesday and each country was allotted 10 minutes to speak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-will-use-its-vaccine-production-distribution-capacity-to-help-humanity-in-fighting-covid-19-pm-modi-at-sco-summit/story-Wtq8fEvFnU5U0APJ1KdqCN.html
10-11-2020||India||It is trailer for upcoming elections: Gujarat CM on BJP’s lead in by-polls||As BJP leads on all seats in Gujarat assembly by-polls, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Tuesday said that this is the trailer for the next elections.“BJP is nearing win on all eight seats. It is a trailer for the upcoming elections,” Gujarat Chief Minister said at a press conference in Gandhinagar. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is leading on all eight Assembly seats which went to by-polls in Gujarat, as per latest trends of Election Commission of India.As per the ECI, BJP’s vote share is 53.71 per cent, INC is 34.51 per cent and NOTA is 2.09 per cent and Others 9.70 per cent.Click here to follow live updates of Gujarat by-pollsThe by-elections for eight assembly seats in Gujarat were conducted by the poll panel on November 3 and counting of votes began at 8 am today.The by-elections were held after the sitting Congress MLAs resigned ahead of the Rajya Sabha polls held in June this year. Five of them later joined the BJP and are contesting the by-polls on the party’s ticket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-is-trailer-for-upcoming-elections-gujarat-cm-on-bjp-s-lead-in-by-polls/story-VcdDN7A5O0bL5QbtuqCORM.html
10-11-2020||India||Centre’s timely intervention could have reduced pollution surge in Delhi: Gopal Rai||As air quality continues to deteriorate in the national capital, Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Tuesday said that Delhi was paying the price of Centre’s negligence as timely intervention by the government on the issue of stubble burning in the fields of Punjab and Haryana could have helped lowering pollution levels in the city.“Had there been timely intervention by the Centre and had they listened to our proposal of bio decomposers which was successful in decomposing 90 per cent of stubble in Delhi, then perhaps Delhi could’ve been protected from 35-45 per cent of pollution due to stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana,” Gopal Rai told ANI.Justifying the ban imposed on bursting firecrackers during the on-going festive period in the city, the Delhi Minister said that the ban was necessary amidst rising pollution during the pandemic.“Rise in pollution is affecting the respiration of people. In the wake of that, the Delhi government decided to ban crackers because people cannot do anything about the pollution coming from outside,” he added.In a bid to prevent the Covid-19 pandemic from worsening due to increased air pollution, the Delhi government has banned all types of firecrackers from November 7 to 30. On Monday, Rao had said that if anyone violates the ban on firecrackers during Diwali, then the violator shall be penalised under the Air Act.He also mentioned that the Delhi government is running the ‘Red Light Campaign’ to put a check on the toxic emissions from the vehicles and combat vehicular pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-s-timely-intervention-could-have-reduced-pollution-surge-in-delhi-gopal-rai/story-16qMGYz98luIyYS5kjZAWN.html
10-11-2020||India||India’s clean fuel transition hindered by belief linking firewood to well-being: Scientists||India’s transition to clean cooking fuels may be hampered by people’s belief that using firewood is better for their families’ well being than switching to Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG), a new study says.According to the study, published in the journal Nature Energy, understanding differences in the perspectives of rural Indian women using different fuels is vital to unpack the dynamics of cooking fuel transition.“Despite India’s aim of switching to clean fuels, the scale of solid fuel use in rural areas signals that widespread uptake and sustained use of clean fuels is a distant reality,” said Rosie Day, senior author of the study from the University of Birmingham in the UK.“Whilst cooking is not solely a woman’s job, the reality is that, in rural India, women are considered the primary cooks. It is, therefore, critical to unravel how women see the relationship between well being and cooking fuel if India is to make progress in transitioning to clean fuels,” Day said.The study noted that India has more people relying on solid fuels for cooking than any other country in the world. It said providing universal access to clean cooking fuels has been identified as one of the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), to which the country is a signatory.In the current research, the scientists conducted focus group discussions with women in four villages in the Chittoor district of Andhra Pradesh. They said two of the four villages mostly used firewood whilst the other two comprised of mostly LPG users who had switched from using firewood. According to the scientists, the firewood users believed that cooking with this fuel improved their financial well being because selling firewood generated income, whilst collecting the fuel gave them an opportunity to socialise -- a tradition they hoped to continue. The people in these villages viewed LPG as a financial burden that gave food an undesirable taste, and feared a fatal canister explosion, the researchers added.LPG users told the scientists that their fuel allowed them to maintain or improve social status, as well as making it easier to care for children and other family members. They said cooking with LPG freed up time which they could use to work outside the home and earn money, and spend time with their family.The scientists believe future interventions to promote new fuels should actively involve women who used solid fuels and clean fuels, opening discussion about the benefits of each, and allowing cooks to observe different cooking practices. They said the interaction programmes could inform firewood users about the positive well being outcomes of LPG, address concerns, and promote learning from each other.However, the scientists believe further research is needed to analyse the perceived relationship between women’s fuel use and multi-dimensional well being in other settings. “This will help to increase our understanding of how social and cultural factors come into play in transition to clean fuels,” Day said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-clean-fuel-transition-hindered-by-belief-linking-firewood-to-well-being-scientists/story-5QypFIPvA5WFiF0HGhGvfM.html
10-11-2020||India||Karnataka bypolls: BJP maintains lead in both seats||The ruling BJP has continued to maintain its lead over opposition Congress and JD(S) in the bypolls for two assembly constituencies in the state, poll officials said on Tuesday. Votes polled in the November 3 byelections to Sira in Tumakuru district and Rajarajeshwari Nagar (R R Nagar) in the city were taken up for counting at 8 am and the results are expected to be out in a few hours from now.According to the Karnataka Chief Electoral Officer’s office, the trends show- BJP candidate was ahead with a margin of over 7,800 votes in Sira, while the party has maintained a lead with a margin of over 34,500 votes in RR Nagar.BJP’s Dr C M Rajesh Gowda is leading with 37,808 votes in Sira, followed by Congress’ T B Jayachandra with 29,938. Trends show JD(S) that had won the seat in the 2018 assembly elections being relegated to the third place with the party candidate Ammajamma B securing 19,522 votes. In R R Nagar too BJP’s N Munirathana is leading with 73,932 votes, followed by Congress’ Kusuma H with 39,415. JD(S) is in third place here too with party candidate V Krishtramurthy so far securing 4,660 votes. As the trends clearly showed BJP leading in both seats, the Chief Minister’s office released a video of Ministers R Ashoka, Basavaraj Bommai, Seiramulu, Byrathi Basavaraj and others greeting CM Yediyurappa with sweets. The bypoll has been necessitated in Sira following the death of JD(S) MLA B Sathyanarayana in August, while R R Nagar seat here fell vacant due to disqualification of the then Congress MLA N Munirathna last year under anti-defection law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-bypolls-bjp-maintains-lead-in-both-seats/story-XT8ieF5Symax8NvWYsQ5IM.html
10-11-2020||India||Flood, rain losses over Rs 6,300 crore, Andhra Pradesh seeks Centre’s help||The heavy rain and flash floods that wreaked havoc in several parts of Andhra Pradesh in the second week of October caused an extensive damage to the extent of Rs 6,368 crore, besides claiming around 50 lives, the state government officials said on Monday. A report to this effect was submitted by state chief secretary Neelam Sawhney to the seven-member Central team, led by Saurav Ray, joint secretary in the Union ministry of home affairs, which came to Andhra Pradesh on a two-day visit to assess the extent of damage caused due to rain and floods. Officials of various departments gave a detailed presentation to the visitor. The chief secretary requested that the Centre release an amount of Rs 5,279.11 crore towards flood relief and restoration of damaged infrastructure, including Rs 840.07 crore for temporary restoration as per NDRF norms and Rs 4,439.14 crore towards permanent relief measures. Sawhney requested that the Centre release the flood relief on war footing in the wake of the precarious financial position of the state due to Covid-19 pandemic. She said the state had received a cumulative rainfall of 444.5 mm as against the normal 351.2 mm during the period, which was 26.6 per cent in excess. “Out of 670 mandals (revenue blocks) in the state, 387 mandals in 12 districts had been affected due to incessant rains and floods in Godavari and Krishna rivers,” she pointed out. She said in all, 45 people were killed in rain-related incidents like wall collapse, drowning and landslides. Five more were reported missing and they could not be traced, despite the best possible search and rescue efforts by NDRF and SDRF. In all, 8,784 houses were fully damaged in the affected districts while a large number of cattle was also killed. The chief secretary explained that agriculture crops like paddy, maize, cotton, black gram, pulses and sugarcane, suffered damage to an extent of 2,12,588 hectares. Paddy alone suffered the worst damage in 1,40,485 hectares, while cotton crop was damaged in 25,068 hectares. Horticulture crops, including vegetables, banana, papaya and turmeric, worth Rs 483 crore were also damaged. About 2657 fish and prawn farming ponds to an extent of 5,819.7 hectares were damaged in West Godavari, Krishna, East Godavari, Guntur and Visakhapatnam districts. There was extensive damage to road networks, rural water supply schemes, irrigation tanks and drainage systems in urban local bodies. The Central team later split into three different groups and visited Anantapuramu, Krishna and Guntur districts for an on-the-spot inspection of the damage suffered. The teams will visit East and West Godavari districts on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flood-rain-losses-over-rs-6-300-crore-andhra-pradesh-seeks-centre-s-help/story-oOUbz8BjZjf9tkTnBK62UP.html
10-11-2020||India||PAGD constituents to contest upcoming election individually: Farooq Abdullah||National Conference (NC) president Dr Farooq Abdullah on Monday announced that the constituents of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) will contest the upcoming election to the district development councils in Jammu and Kashmir individually. He said it may not be possible to allot candidates a combined symbol at this advanced stage of the poll process.“Now there is very little time and therefore the alliance partners will contest on their own, but they will jointly represent the PAGD,” Abdullah said, while speaking to media persons on the sidelines of a social function in Kathua late Monday. Also Read: Peoples Conference asks for early hearing of petitions challenging abrogation of Article 370When asked about the controversy regarding certain remarks attributed to him, Abdullah said those indulging in such vicious campaigns may have nothing to say about the strong defence put forth by him and Atal Bihari Vajpayee during a United Nations event in Geneva. “When it comes to fighting for the nation, I have always been in the forefront,” he said, adding that dubbing him anti-national was nothing new, as some people “are fashioned to speak this language”.The NC chief said that the PAGD’s fight is not against the nation but a certain party that has brought the country to an impasse by dividing communities and creating a wedge between them. He said he has always opposed the divisive politics of the BJP, as he believes in the India of Mahatma Gandhi, which is inclusive, based on the spirit of respect for all, harmony and tranquillity. He said India belongs to all, irrespective of region, religion or colour and those trying to trample this glorious and unique ethos were enemies of the nation.To a question on the US elections, Abdullah replied that he hoped the new regime will clear the mess across the world created during the tenure of Donald Trump. He said irrational and reactionary politics have no place in democracy. “Like the US, a change is sure to take place in India also,” he added.Earlier, replying to media questions, NC provincial president Devender Singh Rana said that the new alliance will carry out its political obligations under the ambit of the Constitution of India.Rana said that his party’s fight is not against the nation but against the divisive thought that is not in consonance with the traditional unity in diversity of this country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pagd-constituents-to-contest-upcoming-election-individually-farooq-abdullah/story-vJTLsQsuum4NXv7wXTG2dM.html
10-11-2020||India||Gujarat bypolls: BJP leading in 7 seats, Congress in one||Candidates of the ruling BJP in Gujarat are leading in seven out of the eight Assembly constituencies for which bypolls were held while the Congress is ahead in one seat, as per the early trends of counting on Tuesday.BJP’s Pradhumansinh Jadeja is leading by over 2,300 votes in Abdasa seat while former minister Kiritsinh Rana is ahead by 5,400 votes in Limbdi, among other candidates.Congress’ Jayantilal Patel is leading in Morbi constituency by a margin of more than 1,500 votes, as per the Election Commission data.Click here for all the Gujarat bypolls LIVE updates The counting began at 8 am in eight centres set up in these constituencies, an election official said.The bypolls were necessitated after sitting Congress MLAs resigned ahead of Rajya Sabha polls in June this year.Five of them then joined the ruling BJP, which fielded them from the same seats they had won in the 2017 elections.A 60.75 per cent voter turnout was recorded in the bypolls held on November 3 in Abdasa (Kutch), Limbdi (Surendranagar), Morbi (Morbi district), Dhari (Amreli), Gadhada (Botad), Karjan (Vadodara), Dang (Dang district) and Kaprada (Valsad) Assembly seats.As many as 81 candidates contested the bypolls across the eight seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-bypolls-bjp-leading-in-7-seats-congress-in-one/story-LD5qTXGotWktnSz42dHZEL.html
10-11-2020||India||India reports less than 40,000 Covid-19 cases for second time in November||India reported less than 40,000 cases of the coronavirus disease in a single day for the second time in November, taking the country’s tally to over 8.59 million, according to the Union health ministry’s data on Tuesday. The Covid-19 tally has surged to 8,591,730 with 38,073 new infections in the last 24 hours and the death toll climbed to 127,059 with 448 fresh fatalities, the health ministry’s dashboard showed at 8am.Data showed that the number of people who have recovered from the viral disease is now at 7,959,406 which has taken the national recovery rate to 92.64% even as the case fatality rate stands at 1.48%. The number of active cases remained below 600,000 for the twelfth day in a row. On Tuesday, there were 505,265 active cases of the coronavirus so far, which comprise 5.88% of the total caseload, the health ministry data said.Also read | Covid-19: What you need to know todayThere have been 127,059 deaths so far in the country, including 45,325 from Maharashtra followed by 11,410 from Karnataka, 11,362 from Tamil Nadu, 7,350 from West Bengal, 7,231 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,060 from Delhi, 6,802 from Andhra Pradesh, 4,338 from Punjab and 3,765 from Gujarat. Out of the 448 new fatalities reported from across the country, 85 are from Maharashtra, 71 from Delhi, 56 from West Bengal, 25 from Uttar Pradesh, 22 from Kerala and 20 from Punjab.Also read | Move HC against decision on ICU beds reservation for Covid-19 patients: SC to Delhi govtThe health ministry has said that more than 70% of these deaths have been due to comorbidities. “Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR),” the ministry said on its website and that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.Also read | Union health minister reviews Covid-19 situation in 9 high disease burden statesIndia’s Covid-19 tally had crossed the 2 million mark on August 7, 3 million on August 23 and 4 million on September 5. On September 16, Covid-19 cases went past 5 million, 6 million on September 28, 7 million on October 11 and crossed 8 million on October 29.ICMR has said that a cumulative total of 11,96,15,857 samples have been tested up to November 9 with 10,43,665 samples being tested on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-less-than-40-000-covid-19-cases-for-second-time-in-november/story-jJs03SK2DTUDC2loYV5ptO.html
10-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: At 19.2 degrees Celsius, Mumbai records coolest morning of season so far and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan TimesAt 19.2 degrees, Mumbai records coolest morning of season so farMumbai recorded its lowest minimum temperature of the season so far on Tuesday.The Santacruz weather observatory, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, recorded the minimum temperature at 19.2 degrees Celsius, over 3 degrees Celsius below normal.The Colaba weather station, representative of south Mumbai, recorded 22.5 degrees Celsius, a degree Celsius below normal.Mumbai had recorded 19.7 degrees Celsius on November 7, but the minimum temperature kept fluctuating thereafter. It increased to 25 degrees Celsius on November 8 and then dropped back to 23 degrees Celsius over the weekend. Read MoreBihar Election 2020: Trends show smaller parties fail to make a markVoters in Bihar appear to have rejected the smaller parties, which were part of separate alliances in the assembly elections, as per early trends available on the Election Commission (EC) website.Asaduddin Owaisi’s All India Majlis–e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) and Mayawati’s Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) were the only two smaller parties visible on the leader board. Read MoreBy-poll Results 2020 live updates: In Madhya Pradesh, BJP ahead in 17 of 28 seats but 3 ministers trailing, trends showCounting of votes of by-polls held in 58 assembly constituencies across 11 states in the country began at 8m on Tuesday. This is being held along the vote-counting process in Bihar where the country’s first major electoral exercise was held amid the coronavirus pandemic.Votes are being be counted for 28 assembly constituencies in Madhya Pradesh, where the stakes are high for the ruling Shivraj Singh Chouhan led-BJP government and the Congress. Read MoreNDA maintains lead in Kosi and Seemanchal region, AIMIM leader trailsGoing against most exit poll predictions, the NDA has maintained lead over the Grand Alliance in Bihar and the Nitish Kumar led alliance is also maintaining a lead over its rival formation in Kosi and Seemanchal region.JD(U) candidates are leading in Supaul, Saharsa and Madhepura against RJD candidates. However, Congress candidate Subhashini Yadav, daughter of Sharad Yadav is leading on Bihariganj seat. RJD’s Lovely Anand is trailing on the Saharsa seat where BJP candidate Alok Ranjan Jha is ahead. Read MoreIPL 2020 Final, MI vs DC: Biggest thing after the World Cup final, says Kieron PollardThe Indian Premier League is one of the biggest tournaments in cricket if not the sports world. The cash-rich league is watched by millions all around the world as the biggest cricket stars come together to play for their respective franchises. Since its launch in 2008, IPL has gone from strength to strength to make the Indian cricket one of the biggest markets in the sports world. Several nations have prioritised IPL in making plans for their cricketing future. Read MoreDance numbers, in films, are great exposure: Karishma TannaDancing to the tune of a remix song is unlike dancing to iconic dialogues turned into lyrics, feels Karishma Tanna.The actor is enjoying the feedback for her dance number Basanti in the upcoming film, Suraj Pe Mangal Bhari. The lyrics Basanti aaj in kutton ke saamne na naach are from a popular dialogue from the Ramesh Sippy directed iconic film Sholay (1975). “As the lyrics are from a famous dialogue, I was most excited to recreate them with this modern twist. The legendary Hema Malini ji has been our favourite Basanti over the years and nobody can ever change that, so it was definitely an overwhelming feeling for me to step into this new Basanti’s shoes and groove to the song which I thoroughly enjoyed!” says Tanna, who feels the song is quite a catchy and peppy with a fun and sexy vibe to it. Read MoreDelhi-NCR wakes up to dense smog, sixth consecutive ‘severe’ air dayDelhi-NCR woke up to a grey morning as air quality remained in the ‘severe’ category for the sixth consecutive day. The city’s air quality index (AQI) reading on Tuesday morning was 487. The smog reduced the visibility to merely 300 meters in the morning affecting traffic. IMD said improvement in air quality was highly unlikely in the coming days. A combination of an extremely high number of stubble fires in Punjab, low to calm winds in the region and subsidence of air has led to Delhi recording ‘severe’ air quality since November 5. The National Green Tribunal (NGT) imposed a total ban on sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers in Delhi-NCR as well as much of north India till December 1. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-19-2-degrees-celsius-mumbai-records-coolest-morning-of-season-so-far-and-all-the-latest-news/story-8yPgs1Nnl0MUP1meXelqmM.html
10-11-2020||India||SCO Summit: India to raise importance of rules-based world order, need for action against terror||India is expected to raise the importance of a rules-based world order and the need for concerted action against terror when Prime Minister Narendra Modi joins the heads of state of China and Pakistan at the virtual summit of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) on Tuesday. This will be the first time that Modi and President Xi Jinping will be on the same virtual platform since the India-China border standoff began in May. The two sides are currently discussing proposals for disengagement at friction points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh sector and senior military commanders of the two sides are expected to meet again this week. This is the first time the annual meeting of the SCO heads of state is being held virtually because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Russia, the current chair of SCO, has organised most of the grouping’s meetings virtually this year, except for meetings of foreign ministers and defence ministers that were held in Moscow in September. Also Read: China ready to talk on all flashpoints: OfficialsThe economic impact of the pandemic, efforts to strengthen the rules-based world order, counter-terrorism and the troubled peace process in Afghanistan are expected to figure in the discussions between the SCO leaders. The SCO Summit is one of five virtual meetings this month that will be joined by the top leadership of India and China. As with all recent virtual multilateral summits and meetings, there will be no bilateral meetings on the sidelines. President Vladimir Putin will chair Tuesday’s meeting and the heads of state of the eight SCO members – Russia, China, India, Pakistan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan – will speak for 10 minutes each. The heads of state of four observer countries – Iran, Afghanistan, Belarus and Mongolia – will join the meet, and the SCO secretary general and executive director of the SCO’s Regional Anti-Terrorist Structure (RATS) will also address the gathering. The SCO Summit is the grouping’s main body that sets the agenda for the coming year. The meeting is also expected to focus on all the main areas of activity, including politics, security, trade and economy, and will conclude with the adoption of the Moscow Declaration containing the joint position of the members on global and regional issues. There will also be statements on issues such as digital economy, Covid-19, countering terrorism, including on the Internet, and countering drug trafficking. The summit is also expected to make decisions on major projects and trade and economic initiatives. Modi, who has led the Indian delegation to the annual summit since India became a full member of SCO in 2017, had outlined his vision with the acronym HEALTH – covering healthcare cooperation, economic cooperation, alternative energy, literature and culture, terrorism-free society and humanitarian cooperation – at last year’s summit in Bishkek.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sco-summit-india-to-raise-importance-of-rules-based-world-order-need-for-action-against-terror/story-PJhmKblkKbCaCvRugTg5xL.html
10-11-2020||India||K’taka by-polls: BJP candidate leads from RR seat by over 33,000 votes||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is leading on both the seats which underwent voting during the by-polls held in Karnataka.BJP’s Munirathna is leading from the Rajarajeshwarinagar seat by a tall margin of 33,185 votes, while its candidate from the Sira seat, Dr CM Rajesh Gowda is ahead by 7,870 votes, as per the Election Commission on Tuesday. While BJP’s vote share at 12:30 pm stands at 53.3 per cent, that of rival Congress is 32.7 per cent. The other big party in the state Janata Dal (Secular) meanwhile is at the third position in terms of vote share with just 11.6 per cent.Congress’ Kusuma H is trailing behind the BJP candidate on the Rajarajeshwarinagar seat, while the party’s TB Jayachandra is trailing from the Sira seat. Counting of votes for the by-election held in two assembly constituencies of Rajarajeshwari Nagar (RR Nagar) in Bengaluru and Sira in Tumkur in Karnataka began today morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/k-taka-by-polls-bjp-candidate-leads-from-rr-seat-by-over-33-000-votes/story-zTLVoyeGSIHqqj9yEVxihI.html
10-11-2020||India||SC to hear tomorrow Arnab Goswami’s petition challenging Bombay HC order denying him bail||Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami moved Supreme Court after the Bombay High Court dismissed his petition for interim bail in 2018 abetment to suicide case on Monday. A bench of Justice DY Chandrachud and Justice Indira Banerjee will hear the petition at 10.30am on Wednesday.The top court hear the petition tomorrow.Goswami was arrested along with two others - Feroze Shaikh and Nitish Sarda - by Alibag Police and remanded to judicial custody for 14 days on November 4 in connection with the death of interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother Kumud Naik in 2018. The 47-year-old journalist had earlier filed an interim bail plea before the Bombay high court on Saturday. The court had reserved its order on Goswami’s plea and given him an option to file the application in sessions court, which he took and filed a bail plea before a sessions court on Monday.Following his arrest from his Lower Parel residence, Goswami was kept at a local school designated as a Covid-19 centre for the Alibag prison till November 8, after which he was shifted to the Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai. ALSO WATCH | Arnab Goswami’s interim bail plea rejected; Governor ‘concerned’ l Key updates Speaking to Republic TV reporters from a van that shifted him from the prison quarantine centre to the jail on Sunday, Goswami alleged that he was being subjected to torture and was not being allowed to talk to his lawyers.The decision to move him to the jail before he completed his quarantine period at the school was taken after he was allegedly found using someone’s mobile phone to access his social media accounts in the quarantine centre. His own mobile phone was confiscated by the police at the time of his arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arnab-goswami-moves-supreme-court-challenging-bombay-hc-order-dismissing-his-interim-bail-plea/story-12qlSsvyUVxUt3gJ2qZwQI.html
10-11-2020||India||Haryana bypoll: Wrestler Yogeshwar Dutt trails from Baroda seat||Congress candidate Indu Raj is leading over the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) contender and wrestler Yogeshwar Dutt from the Baroda Assembly constituency for a by-election to the Haryana Legislative Assembly, as per the Election Commission (EC) on Tuesday.As of noon, Indu Raj is leading with 17,827 votes, while Dutt has 13,985 votes.The counting of votes for the Baroda Assembly by-poll in Haryana began at 8 am on Tuesday.Click here to read complete bypoll coverage.The fate of 14 candidates, including seven Independents, will be decided today.According to the EC, 68 per cent of the 1.81 lakh electors exercised their franchise on November 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-bypoll-wrestler-yogeshwar-dutt-trails-from-baroda-seat/story-xKliB3fsJMHC7piYgxnaVM.html
10-11-2020||India||BJP surges ahead in UP by-polls, billed as semi final to 2022 contest||The ruling BJP is putting up a strong show in by-polls for seven Assembly seats in the politically critical state of Uttar Pradesh by maintaining lead in six seats as per trends available three hours after the beginning of counting.An independent candidate was leading on the seventh seat. Six of these seats were earlier held by the BJP, while Malhani was won by the SP in the 2017 assembly election.BJP candidates are leading on Tundla (Firozabad), Bangarmau (Unnao), Bulandshahr, Deoria, Ghatampur (Kanpur) and Naugaon Sadat (Amroha), and the independent candidate Dhananjay Singh is leading on the Malhani (Jaunpur) seat, previously held by SP. Counting of votes began at 8am and this is the status till 11 am with the most constituencies touching round 6 or 7 of counting.An average of over 53% voters had exercised their franchise to decide the electoral fate of 88 candidates, including one women candidate in the fray.In Bangarmau, the BJP was ahead with 18,160 votes against its nearest rival SP that had pocketed 10,412 votes so far. Former Congress MP from Unnao Anu Tandon’s joining the Samajwadi Party, a day before the polling, did not seem to have benefited SP in the by-polls.In Ghatampur, the BJP is ahead with 9,016 votes against its nearest BSP rival, who has bagged 8,360 votes so far.In Naugwan Sadat, BJP candidate Sangeeta Chauhan is leading against her nearest rival Javed Abbas from the SP by a wafer-thin margin of 90 votes as per ECI website. Sangeeta Chauhan has bagged 20,526 votes so far against 20, 436 votes obtained by Javed Abbas of the Samajwadi Party.In Tundla, the BJP candidate is ahead with 16,358 votes against its nearest rival from BSP, who has cornered 11,734 votes so far. Bihar Election Results: Full coverageIn Bulandshahr, BJP candidate has bagged 10,365 votes and BSP is in second place with 6,640 votes. SP was supporting a Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) candidate on this seat as per their poll-pact. The RLD candidate is in the third position as per the trends.On the eve of counting, SP chief Akhilesh Yadav had accused the BJP of rigging the by-polls; the party spokesperson and former SP minister Abhishek Mishra, however, on Tuesday expressed confidence that SP will put up a strong show in the state.“These are initial trends, ultimately by the time counting ends, SP would emerge the gainer. SP is the only alternative in UP,” Mishra said.The counting of the votes is going on amid tight security and adherence to Covid-19 containment guidelines. Uttar Pradesh chief electoral officer (CEO) Ajay Kumar Shukla said the election commission has made adequate arrangements for protective gears, PPE kits, face shields, masks, thermal scanners, gloves, sanitisers, soaps and water for those engaged in the counting process.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath and Bharatiya Janata Party state unit president Swatantra Dev Singh had led the party’s campaign on the seven seats. The Samajwadi Party had also campaigned vigorously but party president Akhilesh Yadav did not venture out to any of the constituencies. The Bahujan Samaj Party and the Congress had also campaigned actively for the by-polls.Also Read: Bihar election results: NDA takes lead in cliffhanger trends, hovers around magic markPolitical observer AK Saxena said the results of the by-elections will set the tone for the 2022 UP assembly elections. He said that results on the seven seats, spread across various parts of the state, will reflect the mood of voters both in urban and rural areas in the wake of Covid-induced lockdown. The highest number of candidates, 18, were in fray in Bulandshahr, 16 in Malhani, 14 each in Deoria and Naugawan Sadat, 10 each in Tundla and Bangarmau and six in Ghatampur.The Naugawan Sadat, Ghatampur, Bulandshahar, Deoria and Malhani seats fell vacant after the deaths of sitting MLAs Chetan Chauhan, Kamal Rani Varun, Virendra Singh Sirohi, Janmejai Singh and Prasanath Yadav respectively.Bangarmau assembly seat in Unnao district fell vacant after the disqualification of the then sitting MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar, following his conviction in a rape case on December 20, 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-surges-ahead-in-up-by-polls-billed-as-semi-final-to-2022-contest/story-8kkIZldUmYAKfY8cwttMZJ.html
10-11-2020||India||MP bypolls: BJP ahead in 17 seats but three ministers trailing||Three ministers in the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government in Madhya Pradesh are trailing behind their Congress rivals even as the ruling BJP has taken a lead in 17 of the 28 Assembly constituencies, as per the trends of counting on Tuesday.The opposition Congress is ahead in nine seats out of the 27 constituencies for which trends are available. The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) is leading in Morena seat, as per the Election Commission data.Ministers Aidal Singh Kansana, Girraj Dandotia, and OPS Bhadoria are struggling in Sumaoli, Dimani and Mehgaon seats, respectively, where their Congress rivals have taken a lead.Click here for the full coverage of bypollsElsewhere, BJP candidates are leading in 16 seats by a margin ranging from 312 votes (Dabra) to 17,283 votes (Badnawar), while Congress contestants are ahead in Sumaoli, Dimni, Ambah, Mehgaon, Gohad, Bhander, Karera, Biora and Agar constituencies.Tulsiram Silawat of the BJP is leading by a margin of 8,238 votes from Sanver against his Congress rival.BJP candidates are ahead in Gwalior, Gwalior East, Dabra, Bamori, Ashok Nagar, Mugaoli, Surkhi, Bada Malhera, Anuppur, Sanchi, Hatpiplya, Mandhata, Nepanagar, Badnawar, Suwasara and Jaura seats.A total of 355 candidates, including 12 ministers, contested the byelections held on November 3.Despite the Covid-19 pandemic, a total of 70.27 per cent voter turnout was recorded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-bypolls-bjp-ahead-in-17-seats-but-three-ministers-trailing/story-7PTdnJCMEW28e5ETKWJkcN.html
10-11-2020||India||West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee pays tribute to victims of political violence||On the occasion of the 13th ‘Nandigram Dibas’ on Tuesday, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee remembered all those who have lost their lives in political violence across the world. The chief minister described the killings at Nandigram in Purba Medinipur district as a “barbaric massacre in the name of new dawn” during the erstwhile Left Front rule.“Today is Nandigram Dibas - the 13th anniversary of the barbaric massacre in the name of new dawn. My homage to all those who have lost their lives due to political violence across the world. Peace must always win,” she tweeted.In January 2007, farmers in Nandigram had erupted in protest led by Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress (TMC) against a special economic zone (SEZ) proposed by the Left Front government.Fourteen persons were killed in police firing on demonstrators against land acquisition at Nandigram on March 14, 2007.On this day in 2007, several persons were killed in clashes.The anti-land acquisition movement had catapulted the firebrand Trinamool Congress supremo to power in West Bengal.The TMC went on to win 19 seats in the 2009 Lok Sabha elections and wrested power from the Left Front in the state in 2011 Assembly elections.Since 2012, the TMC observes the day as “Nandigram Divas” every year.The TMC also observes March 14, which witnessed the killing of 14 farmers at Nandigram, as ‘Krishak Divas’ each year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-cm-mamata-banerjee-pays-tribute-to-victims-of-political-violence/story-xEkyiXtXzJc6MfsfHG2K1K.html
10-11-2020||India||Bihar Election 2020: BJP, JD(U) offices see activity after initial trends trickle in, leaders cautious||As election trends trickled in, giving the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Janata Dal (United)-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) an edge over the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and Congress-led Mahagathbandhan by a slender margin, the BJP and JD(U) offices started seeing some activity. The BJP office at Beer Chand Patel Marg, however, saw a muted response to the initial trends, with leaders and workers not engaging in any celebrations till 11am, probably taking a lesson from the 2015 assembly election—the initial trends then had given NDA a lead, and the euphoria fell flat when the final results were announced.“We are hopeful of winning the polls. The initial results are good and we are waiting for the final outcome,” said a BJP worker. State president Sanjay Jaiswal has not commented on the trends so far and neither has any senior leader of the party, though trends show the BJP is leading in 68 seats. Also Read: Full coverage of Bihar assembly election 2020The BJP’s tally is higher than senior partner JD(U), which is leading in 47 seats, giving credence to opinion and exit polls that the BJP would be doing better than its allies this election. JD(U) state president Basishtha Narayan Singh said he was confident of the NDA getting a majority.ALSO WATCH | Bihar election: Counting underway; Tejashwi’s supporters ready to celebrate On the other hand, the mood outside the 10, Circular Road residence of Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, where RJD workers have started trickling in, was upbeat. Senior leaders have not given any reaction so far, with RJD’s chief ministerial candidate Yadav still confined inside his official bungalow. There are chances that Yadav, who has singe-handedly steered the campaign—taking part in 247 election rallies and four road shows in 20 days—will speak to the media in the afternoon. By any standards, the RJD has done well, leading in 63 seats so far, as per trends, with chances the tally could go up. “ We will get a clear majority this time and RJD will cross 90 on its own,” said a senior RJD leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-election-2020-bjp-jd-u-offices-see-activity-after-initial-trends-trickle-in-leaders-cautious/story-HfAjWaCYntIVQQnImnHkVO.html
10-11-2020||India||UP bypolls: Early trends show BJP leading in 5 seats, SP, independent in one each||The BJP was leading in five seats while the SP and an independent candidate were leading in one each as counting of votes polled in seven Uttar Pradesh Assembly seats progressed on Tuesday.Bypolls to seven seats in the state were held last week.While BJP’s Usha Sirohi is leading in Bulandshahr, Prem Pal Dhangar is leading from Tundla, Shrikant Katiyar from Bangarmau, Satya Prakash Mani Tripathi from Deoria and Upendra Nath Paswan from Ghatampur. SP and independent candidates are leading in Naugawan Sadat and Malhani seats SP’s Javed Abbas is leading from Naugawan Sadat, held by Chetan Chauhan, who was also minister in the Yogi Adityanath government. Abbas is leading by a margin of 4028 over Sangeeta Chauhan of the BJP.In Malhani, independent Dhananjay Singh is leading over nearest candidate SP’s Lucky Yadav by a margin of about 1236 votes. The seat was earlier with SP’s Parasnath Yadav.In Bulandshahr, BJP’s Usha Sirohi is leading by a margin of 3725 votes from BSP’s Mohd Yunus while in Tundla, BJP Prempal Singh Dhanghar is leading by a margin of 2890 votes from Mahraj Singh Dhangar of SP.In Bangarmau, BJP’s Shrikant Katiyar is leading by a margin of 7230 votes over SP’s Suresh Kumar Pal.In Ghatampur, BJP’s Upendra Nath Paswan is leading by a margin of 807 votes over Kuldeep Shankhwar of BSP while in Deoria, BJP’s Satyaprakash Mani Tripathi is leading by a margin of 2403 votes over SP’s Brahma Shankar Tripathi . An average of over 53 per cent voters had exercised their franchise on November 3 to decide the electoral fortunes of 88 candidates in Naugaon Sadat, Tundla, Bangarmau, Bulandshahr, Deoria, Ghatampur and Malhani Assembly constituencies.Barring Malhani, which was with the Samajwadi Party, the other seats were in the BJP’s kitty.The Naugaon Sadat seat fell vacant after the death of state minister and former cricketer Chauhan. The Ghatampur bypoll in Kanpur Nagar district was necessitated due to the death of state minister Varun. Both the ministers died of Covid-19.The Tundla seat fell vacant after its MLA, S P Singh Baghel, was elected to the Lok Sabha, while the Bangarmau seat in Unnao fell vacant after the conviction of BJP MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar in a rape case.The BJP had dumped Sengar soon after his involvement in the case was alleged.The bypolls to the Bulandshahr, Deoria and Malhani seats were necessitated due to the deaths of sitting MLAs Virendra Singh Sirohi, Janmejay Singh and Parasnath Yadav (SP) respectively.Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Aazad’s Azad Samaj Party has fielded Mohammad Yameen from Bulandshahr to test its electoral popularity.The Bulandshahr seat has the highest number of 18 candidates while Ghatampur seat has the lowest of six. Sixteen candidates are in the fray in Malhani, 14 each in Naugaon Sadat and Deoria, 10 each in Bangarmau and Tundla.SP chief Akhilesh Yadav on Monday accused the BJP of indulging in “rigging, fraud and whatever it could through the administration to win the elections”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-bypolls-early-trends-show-bjp-leading-in-5-seats-sp-independent-in-one-each/story-pOH7ejdZ7G0K5MMnRuVt0N.html
10-11-2020||India||Shopian encounter: 2 unidentified terrorists neutralised in J&K’s Kutpora||At least two unidentified terrorists neutralised in an ongoing operation in Kutpora area of Shopian district of Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday. According to the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), the troops of 178 Bn CRPFalong with the Indian Army and Jammu and Kashmir Police conducted a joint cordonand search operation in Kutpora, Shopian, Jammu and Kashmir.A brief exchange of fire had occurred between the troops and terrorists at 6 am, the CRPF said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shopian-encounter-2-unidentified-terrorists-neutralised-in-j-k-s-kutpora/story-d4D0XtDhzNAvAnlQqpuXyM.html
10-11-2020||India||Senior Republic TV executive held in fake TRP scam||Republic TV’s distribution head Ghanshyam Singh was arrested on Tuesday in connection with the alleged TRP (Television Rating Point) rigging scam, a Mumbai crime branch official said.Singh, who is also Assistant Vice President of the Republic Media Network, was picked up from his residence around 7.40 am, the official said.The latest arrest has taken the number of people held by the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) of the crime branch in the case to 12.Singh was earlier questioned on multiple occasions by the CIU, the official said.The fake TRP scam came to light last month when ratings agency Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) filed a complaint through Hansa Research Group, alleging that certain television channels were rigging TRP numbers.Hansa is one of BARC’s vendors on engagement with panel homes or people’s meters. PTI DC NSK NSK||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/senior-republic-tv-executive-held-in-fake-trp-scam/story-UeTu0ipqGtXP9suud8WVRN.html
10-11-2020||India||Punjab revokes ‘general consent’ to CBI||The Congress-led government in Punjab has revoked its general consent to the Central Bureau of Investigation for probing cases in the state, joining several other non-BJP ruled states that have carried out similar moves.West Bengal, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh are among the states that have already withdrawn their “general consent” to the CBI.According to the notification issued by the Punjab government on November 8, its prior consent will be required by the CBI, which comes under the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, to investigate any case in the state.“In exercise of the power conferred by section 6 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946 (Central Act No 25 of 1946), the Government of Punjab hereby withdraws the general consent accorded to the members of the Delhi Special Police Establishment, anytime herein before,” as per notification issued by the Additional Chief Secretary, department of Home Affairs and Justice.“In view of revocation of all previous general consents issued earlier, prior consent of the Government of Punjab shall be required, hereinafter, on a case-to-case basis for investigation of any offence or class of offences under section 3 of the aforesaid Act, by the Delhi Special Police Establishment,” it further said.The Punjab government had earlier withdrawn consent from the CBI for investigating the 2015 sacrilege incidents there after the state assembly passed a resolution in this regard in 2018.Later, it handed over the probe into the incidents of desecration of religious texts to the special investigation team of the Punjab police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-revokes-general-consent-to-cbi/story-tU7HZJk6YrTf5pQ3GXoLKN.html
10-11-2020||India||BJP candidate wins Singhat in Manipur by-polls||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has secured a victory in the Singhat Assembly constituency (Manipur), out of a total of five seats, in which by-polls were held, according to the Election Commission of India (ECI) on Tuesday.According to the data from the ECI, BJP candidate Ginsuanhau has been declared the winner from Singhat, while Oinam Lukhoi Singh is leading by a margin of 268 votes from the Wangoi seat against National People’s Party (NPP) candidate, Khuraijam Loken Singh.Meanwhile, Congress’ Moirangthem Hemanta Singh is leading by a margin of 675 votes against BJP’s Paonam Brojen Singh on the Wangjing Tentha seat.By-polls were held in five Assembly constituencies, including Lilong, Wangjing Tentha and Saitu, in the state on November 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-candidate-wins-singhat-in-manipur-by-polls/story-pog7loRCVQELJdPSFpEkNL.html
10-11-2020||India||UP Bypoll Results 2020: BJP leading in 4 seats, trailing in 2, early trends show||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was on Tuesday leading in four seats and trailing in two others, early trends showed as votes were being counted in the seven assembly seats in Uttar Pradesh, where by-polls were held last week.The by-polls are being seen as a test of popularity for the government led by chief minister Yogi Adityanath, as the BJP, which has a comfortable majority in the state assembly, is contesting on seven seats. The party had won six of these in the 2017 elections and one was held by the Samajwadi Party.The BJP is leading in four, while the Samajwadi Party (SP), Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and Independent candidates are ahead in one each by margins varying from 1,000 to 2,000 votes. The BJP’s Usha Sirohi is leading in Bulandshahr, while Prem Pal Dhangar is leading from Tundla, Shrikant Katiyar from Bangarmau and Satya Prakash Mani Tripathi from Deoria. The SP’s Javed Abbas is leading from Naugawan Sadat and BSP’s Kuldeep Shankhwar from Ghatampur. Independent Dhananjay Singh is leading from Malhani seat.Also read | D-day for 58 assembly seats across 11 statesThe ruling party in the state was trailing in seats held by state ministers Chetan Chauhan and Kamla Rani Varun, Navgawan Sadat and Ghatampur respectively, while the SP was trailing in Malhani.The Naugaon Sadat seat fell vacant after the death of state minister and former cricketer Chetan Chauhan. The Ghatampur bypoll in Kanpur Nagar district was necessitated due to the death of state minister Varun. Both the ministers died of Covid-19. The Tundla seat fell vacant after its MLA, SP Singh Baghel, was elected to the Lok Sabha, while the Bangarmau seat in Unnao fell vacant after the conviction of BJP MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar in a rape case. The BJP had dumped Sengar soon after his involvement in the case was alleged.Also read | BJP rigged UP assembly by-polls alleges Akhilesh, promises ‘proof’ after resultsThe by-polls to the Bulandshahr, Deoria and Malhani seats were necessitated due to the deaths of sitting MLAs Virendra Singh Sirohi, Janmejay Singh and Parasnath Yadav (SP) respectively.The Bulandshahr seat has the highest number of 18 candidates while Ghatampur seat has the lowest of six. Sixteen candidates are in the fray in Malhani, 14 each in Naugaon Sadat and Deoria, 10 each in Bangarmau and Tundla. Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Aazad’s Azad Samaj Party has fielded Mohammad Yameen from Bulandshahr to test its electoral popularity.SP chief Akhilesh Yadav had on Monday accused the BJP of indulging in “rigging, fraud and whatever it could through the administration to win the elections”.Adityanath and the BJP’s state unit president Swatantra Dev Singh had led the party’s campaign on all the seven seats. The SP had also campaigned vigorously.An average of over 53% of voters had exercised their franchise to decide the electoral fate of 88 candidates, including nine women, for the Naugawan Sadat, Tundla, Bangarmau, Bulandshahr, Deoria, Ghatampur and Malhani assembly seats.UP chief electoral officer (CEO) Ajay Kumar Shukla said the Election Commission of India (ECI) has made adequate arrangements for personal protective equipment (PPE) kits such as face shields, masks, thermal scanners, gloves, sanitisers, soaps and water for those who have been deputed for the counting.“A maximum seven tables have been be placed in a counting hall. The counting of votes for Bulandshahar and Malahani assembly segments are being done in three halls each while counting for the remaining five constituencies are being conducted in two halls each,” Shukla said. “Adequate security forces have been deployed at the counting centres to maintain law and order. The ECI has deputed seven observers to monitor the exercise. The results of all the seven seats are likely to be declared by Tuesday evening,” he added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-bypoll-results-2020-bjp-leading-in-4-seats-trailing-in-4-early-trends-show/story-VuwpK4z4dTaSnJVU4iSTzM.html
10-11-2020||India||MP by-polls: BJP ahead on 13 seats while Congress leads on 5||As per the Election Commission of India’s trends at around 10:05 am on Tuesday, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is ahead on 13 seats while the Indian National Congress (INC) is leading on five seats. The counting of votes is underway at the centres across the state. As the counting began the state looks on for the effect of BJP leader Jyotiraditya Scindia factor in the changed political scenario in Madhya Pradesh. Meanwhile, the by-poll results are equally crucial for the former Chief Minister, Kamal Nath who lost power in the State when a group of Congress MLAs revolted against him after Scindia quit the party and joined the BJP.Click here to follow all the live updates of MP bypollsCounting of votes for by-polls held in 58 assembly constituencies across 11 states in the country began at 8 am on Tuesday. This will be carried out along with the vote-counting process in Bihar where the first major electoral exercise was held amid the pandemic.The result of 28 assembly constituencies in Madhya Pradesh will decide the fate of Shivraj Singh Chouhan led-BJP government which requires at least eight more MLAs for a clear majority in the state assembly.By-polls were held in Joura, Sumaoli, Morena, Dimani, Ambah, Mehgaon, Gohad, Gwalior, Gwalior East, Dabra, Bhander, Karera, Pohari, Bamori, Ashok Nagar, Mungaoli, Surkhi, Malhara, Anuppur, Sanchi, Biaora, Agar, Hatpipliya, Mandhata, Nepanagar, Badnawar, Sanwer and Suwasra of Madhya Pradesh. By-elections were held on 28 seats in Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday. The results will be declared on November 10. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-by-polls-bjp-ahead-on-13-seats-while-congress-leads-on-5/story-FGS5ZbO18lUFRjEmDifxRL.html
10-11-2020||India||India’s active Covid-19 cases fall below 6% of total cases, says health ministry||India’s Covid-19 active cases have fallen below 6 per cent of the total cases, said the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Tuesday.In a tweet, the Health Ministry said, “Demonstrating a landmark achievement, India’s Active Cases have fallen below 6% of the Total Cases. The Recovered Cases have leaped past 92% of the cumulative cases.”In another tweet, it said, “Calibrated and effective strategy of the Centre focused on high levels of testing for early identification combined with timely tracing, isolation and hospitalisation for the severe cases have resulted in a manageable number of active cases and continuously rising number of recoveries.”On Monday, Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan held a virtual meeting with Health Ministers of Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, Punjab, Rajasthan, Telangana, and West Bengal to review the Covid-19 situation.With 45,903 new Covid-19 infections reported in the last 24 hours, India’s total cases surged to 85,53,657, the MoHFW said on Monday.With 490 new deaths reported in the last 24 hours, the death toll has mounted to 1,26,611.The total number of active cases stands at 5,09,673 in the last 24 hours while the total cured cases are at 79,17,373.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-active-covid-19-cases-fall-below-6-per-cent-of-total-cases-health-ministry/story-fPWZKxNc3CKtb1KHllZWgN.html
10-11-2020||India||NDA has an edge over RJD+ alliance but there’s bad news for Nitish Kumar||In early Bihar poll leads, the BJP seems to zoom ahead of its partner Nitish Kumar - who faces a massive anti-incumbency after helming the state for 15 years - the chief ministerial face of the ruling National Democratic Alliance. The early numbers suggest that the BJP is the gainer, while the JD(U) faces a stiff test. Nitish Kumar’s party has always played the role of the senior partner in the Bihar alliance. However, if the trend carries on, there will be a reversal of roles. The BJP has never held the chief minister’s post in the state. The Tejashwi Yadav-led Mahagathbhandan, which most exit polls have given an advantage, appears to be in a tight contest with the NDA. For full Bihar polls coverage,click hereTejashwi Yadav, mahagathbandhan’s chief ministerial face, ran a spirited election campaign and centred on the promise of 10 lakh jobs if voted to power. The issue seems to have galvanised them as was evident by the huge numbers at his rally. The young leader, who critics say has come into his own during this election, marshalled his party well with no Lalu Prasad to guide him around. ALSO WATCH | Bihar results | ‘We’re losing because...’: JDU leader amid counting of votes The Congress, contesting on 70 seats, is the junior partner in the alliance. The BJP campaign was bolstered by Prime minister Narendra Modi. Other star campaigners were defence minister Rajnath Singh, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, BJP chief JP Nadda, among others.Chirag Paswan, who lost his father Ram Vilas Paswan in the middle of the polls, has kept up his unrelenting attack on Nitish Kumar. Despite breaking away from the NDA alliance in Bihar, Chirag’s Lok Janshakti Party continues to support the BJP at the Centre. The Jamui MP has openly professed his support for PM Narendra Modi while keeping up his attacks on Nitish Kumar. The BJP, on its part, has kept its distance from Chirag Paswan, insisting that it is with Nitish Kumar. Paswan even put up candidates in all seats against the JD(U) and at one stage during the campaign even vowed to put the CM in jail.Nitish Kumar, 69, contested the 2015 assembly polls in alliance with the RJD - his archrival Lalu Prasad’s party. The two went on to form the government with Tejashwi Yadav becoming the deputy chief minister. However, by 2017, the bonhomie disappeared and Nitish Kumar was back in the NDA fold.The other block in this election is the Grand Democratic Secular Front (GDSF) led by Upendra Kushwaha’s the Rashtriya Lok Samata Party. The GDSF is a coalition of six parties - the RLSP, the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM), the BSP, the Suheldev Samaj Party (SBSP), the Samajwadi Janata Dal Democractic and the Janatantrik Party (Socialist).The counting of votes for the 243-member state assembly is underway. The majority mark is 122.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-early-bihar-leads-it-s-advantage-bjp-over-nitish-kumar-s-party/story-E2pp67DIEZjFY6rYyt1DrO.html
10-11-2020||India||6 workers heading home to Jharkhand killed in road accident near Hyderabad||Six migrant workers were killed and four others seriously injured in a ghastly road accident on an expressway on the outskirts of Hyderabad in the early hours of Tuesday, police said. Ten workers, said to be carpenters from Jharkhand, were travelling from Hyderabad to their native places in an SUV with Delhi registration on the Outer Ring Road (ORR) expressway when a van rammed into the vehicle from behind at near Patancheru in Telangana’s Sangareddy district.“Due to the impact the SUV lost control and overturned killing six people on the spot. The van that hit the SUV did not stop, but we could find parts of it on the road,” Patancheru inspector Rami Reddy said. Five of the deceased were identified as Kamalesh Lohare, Hari Lohare, Pramod Buhare, Vinod Buhare and Pavan Kumar – all from Ramgarh district of Jharkhand. The identity of the sixth person is yet to be established. Four others – Pramod Kumar, Arjun, Anand Kumar and Chandra Vamsi – all from Gorakhpur in Jharkhand, who sustained grievous injuries were shifted to the government hospital at Patancheru, the inspector said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-workers-heading-home-to-jharkhand-killed-in-road-accident-near-hyderabad/story-A8VbRdwsEonS9IXTqBHx9L.html
10-11-2020||India||Karnataka formulates SOPs for colleges reopening from November 17||The department of higher education has formulated SOPs (standardized operating procedure) as per the UGC guidelines, in view of the opening of degree, engineering, and diploma colleges in the state from November 17.Deputy Chief Minister Dr CN Ashwatha Narayana, who is also the minister of higher education informed on Monday that preparation is underway to enable the start of the off-line classes.“The SOP has separate advisories set for the students of the final year and the classes will be conducted accordingly. Likewise, there are separate advisories set for the students of first and second-year students of the courses,” he said.Postgraduate and final year students who wish to attend classes physically should bring in the consent letter of their parents in the prescribed duly signed by them.While conducting the physical classes social distance needs to be maintained by taking into account the total number of students and the available total number of classrooms, as per the guidelines of the health department and the present advisories.Teaching, practical and project classes should be conducted on shift system, if it is necessary. For those students who want to skip attending physical classes, an online facility will be there.Contact classes should be conducted every day to facilitate students to clarify any doubts and resolve issues of such students with regard to topics, as per the SOP.“The time table should be prepared at the college level itself so as to enable to maintain the social distance as per the guidelines of the health department and the present advisories based on the total number of students and the available number of classrooms while conducting the contact classes,” it said.According the SOP, the teaching faculty should prepare the study materials required for the duration of one month based on each period/session and compulsorily send it to concerned students via Telegram/ WhatsApp/E-mail.Study materials should be in the form of video Lectures, PowerPoint Presentations, E-Notes, E-Books, Audio Books, Practice Questions and it is also mandatory to upload it on the website of the college.All those students (exclusive of post-graduation and final year) who attend online/ contact classes can stay in hostels located on-campus or off-campus, read the SOP.Apart from these the SOPs, general guidelines which include cleansing of buildings, entrance, furniture, teaching materials by sanitizers, Covid-19 test of teaching faculty, students, and non-teaching staff, and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-formulates-sops-for-colleges-reopening-from-november-17/story-jh8u1FRVbfZI5XgROXYMeI.html
10-11-2020||India||Dawood Ibrahim’s properties in Ratnagiri to be auctioned today||The competent authority of the Smugglers and Foreign Exchange Manipulators (Forfeiture of Property) Act (Safema) will go ahead with an auction of seven land parcels of fugitive gangster Dawood Ibrahim in his ancestral village in Ratnagiri district in Konkan on Tuesday, officials said.Two flats of Dawood’s aide Iqbal Mirchi will also be auctioned, officials said. Safema’s competent authority Harigovind Singh will supervise the auction. Under Safema, the finance ministry had planned to auction all 13 properties of Dawood in the first quarter this year. However, the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown forced them to defer the plan. A Safema official said that properties were inspected by prospective bidders as per procedure. “All three modes of sale – e-auction, public auction and sealed tenders – would be used,” he said. Section 68F of Safema empowers the authority to attach properties of family members and relatives of the fugitive. “As the lockdown has adversely affected people across all sections financially, we are not sure what kind of response we would get,” said another official. In April 2019, Safema officials auctioned a flat measuring 600 sq ft at Gordon Hall Apartments in Nagpada, belonging to Dawood’s sister Haseena Parkar, for ₹1.80 crore. Parker died in 2014 and later her brother Iqbal Kaskar had come to stay there. In 2018, Safema auctioned Dawood’s property, Amina Mansion, on Pakmodia Street. The reserved price of the property was ₹79.43 lakh, and it was won by the Saifee Burhani Upliftment Trust (SBUT) for ₹3.51 crore. In November 2017, the Saifee Burhani Upliftment Trust (SBUT) had made the highest bid for the three sealed properties of the fugitive don. The Rounaq Afroz restaurant, also known as Delhi Zaika, was sold for ₹4.53 crore. Six flats in Damarwala building were sold for ₹3.53 crore, while Shabnam Guest House fetched a price of ₹3.52 crore. The reserve price for the land parcels to be auctioned at Mumbake village taluka, Khed, range from ₹1.38 lakh to ₹2.23 lakh. Another plot of land with a two-storey bungalow has a reserved price ₹5.35 lakh. The reserve price for another plot of land with a structure for petrol pump and other buildings is ₹61.48 lakh.Two flats, 501/502, in Milton Apartments on Juhu Tara Road in Santacruz (West), belonging to the late gangster Iqbal Mirchi, will also be sold||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dawood-ibrahim-s-properties-in-ratnagiri-to-be-auctioned-today/story-wCiylG9WinJ59HkeRxlv6H.html
10-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: MHA forms committee to look into complaints of caste-based discrimination and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan TimesMHA forms committee to look into complaints of caste-based discriminationThe Union home ministry has constituted a five-member panel to address complaints of Scheduled Caste (SC) employees pertaining to discrimination in promotions or seniority, vacant reserved vacancies, termination from services and denial of pensionary benefits, etc, people familiar with the development said. Read moreDelhi air severely polluted for sixth consecutive dayDelhi continued to record “severe” air quality for the sixth consecutive day. The city’s air quality index (AQI) reading on Tuesday morning was 487. On Monday, the city’s average AQI reading was 477. Read more Internal differences widen in TMC, BJP watches minister Suvendu AdhikariDifferences over running the party and selection of candidates for the coming assembly polls in West Bengal have rapidly widened in recent weeks between the top leadership of the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) and several district leaders, especially transport minister Suvendu Adhikari. Read moreEver wonder what happens when you open a jar of honey in space? Watch to find outLife in space can seem intriguing to many. If you’re among those who often wonder what it’d be like to live outside Earth, then this video by the Canadian Space Agency may interest you. Watch here‘As outsiders in Bollywood, you get one ball and you must make 7 runs off it’: Pankaj Tripathi on his eight-year strugglePankaj Tripathi took his sweet time watching Mirzapur. It took him a lockdown to sit down and watch the popular Amazon Prime Video series, which has him in the lead role as the don, Kaleen bhaiya. Read moreJanhvi Kapoor takes Instagram back to the 1950s with her yesteryear fashion in brocade, polkas and blue netted sareeGoing retro on a fresh Monday evening, Gunjan Saxena star Janhvi Kapoor took the Internet by storm as she treated netizens with a flood of her dolled up pictures which took Instagram back to the 1950s. Read moreFirst for Delhi or fifth for Mumbai?It had come down to the game’s last ball. For their fourth Indian Premier League (IPL) title, Mumbai Indians (MI) had to stop Chennai Super Kings (CSK) from scoring two. Lasith Malinga bowled the ball of IPL 2019, a slow yorker, to win it for MI. Read moreIndia’s anti-satellite missile system statue unveiled by Rajnath SinghA statue of India’s anti-satellite missile system was unveiled in Delhi at the DRDO headquarters. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh unveiled the statue at a ceremony. PM Modi had announced successful testing of the missile on mar 27, 2019. A low earth orbit satellite was destroyed as part of mission Shakti. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-mha-forms-committee-to-look-into-complaints-of-caste-based-discrimination-and-all-the-latest-news/story-RKXnBBADFufO6RdwYwibOL.html
10-11-2020||India||MHA forms committee to look into complaints of caste-based discrimination||The Union home ministry has constituted a five-member panel to address complaints of Scheduled Caste (SC) employees pertaining to discrimination in promotions or seniority, vacant reserved vacancies, termination from services and denial of pensionary benefits, etc, people familiar with the development said.The committee, headed by joint secretary Saheli Ghosh Roy, will look into all kinds of complaints from the SC employees and submit its report within one month to Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla.Also Read: Bedi refers proposal for 10% reservation in medical courses for govt school students to MHAPeople cited above, who did not want to be named, said the decision to form the Internal Grievance Redressal Committee was taken on the recommendation of the National Commission for Scheduled Castes, which has asked all the central ministries and departments to look into complaints of SC employees.The NCSC has said thousands of complaints are received by it every year from SC employees in which they allege discrimination in promotions, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-forms-committee-to-look-into-complaints-of-caste-based-discrimination/story-5AQTb06TSEzlKy5bG5lsjJ.html
10-11-2020||India||What BJP, Congress, JD(S) have at stake in Karnataka bypolls||All the three major parties in Karnataka - the BJP, the Congress and the Janata Dal (Secular) - are going all-out for win in the Sira and RR Nagar bypolls though their results will have no effect on the survival of the state government.For chief minister BS Yediyurappa victories in one or both the constituencies would underscore the BJP’s continued dependence on his appeal in the state. Also the fate of Vijayendra, the younger son of Yediyurappa, would be determined by the Sira bypoll outcome. Vijayendra is the vice president of the state unit of BJP. A victory in Sira, where the party has never even come second, would underscore his ability to pull off upsets after a similar one in KR Pete last year.Any loss in both the constituencies might further shorten Yediyurappa’s tenure as the high command is keen on replacing the ageing Lingayat leader with a fresh face. So it is important for Yediyurappa and his son Vijayendra to ensure victories although the state government, with 117 members plus the support of three independents in a house of 225 members, is safe.The stakes are equally high for the DK brothers - state Congress chief DK Shivakumar and his parliamentarian younger brother DK Suresh. RR Nagar assembly constituency is a part of Bengaluru Rural which Suresh represents in the Lok Sabha. Also, this is the first electoral challenge that the Congress is facing after Shivakumar took over as state party chief in March of last year. Shivakumar also handpicked the candidate in RR Nagar and chose to back an old warhorse - a former minister TB Jayachandra in Sira.Regional JDS has the most to lose as it has been shrinking for several years now. For the JDS, led by the Gowda family, HD Deve Gowda, HD Kumaraswamy and HD Revanna - a loss in both seats might mean that their traditional hold on the Vokkaliga community is a thing of the past.Their aspiration to remain as kingmakers in Karnataka politics by being the swing third pole which determines who rules the state might also be impacted if they lose both the seats which are Vokkaliga dominated. So all three players are keen to emerge victorious.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-bjp-congress-jd-s-have-at-stake-in-karnataka-bypolls/story-OLXC9hvqZ2GCF187Sama9H.html
10-11-2020||India||Bihar election results: Tejashwi Yadav’s grand alliance takes early lead over Nitish Kumar’s NDA||The grand alliance led by Tejashwi Yadav made a propitious beginning in early leads as counting of votes for the Bihar assembly elections started at 8 am on Tuesday at centres across the state. Tejashwi Yadav has been fronting the opposition offensive against Nitish Kumar who has been Bihar’s chief minister for 14 of the last years and is the face of the National Democratic Alliance’s (NDA) campaign.Full Coverage: Bihar Assembly electionIn very early trends, according to counting data provided by C Voter, the Rashtriya Janata Dal-led alliance is leading in 119 Bihar assembly seats as against the NDA which is ahead in about 93 seats at 9 am. There will be many more rounds of counting of votes in the bitterly-fought elections to the 243-member assembly.Bihar polls: Counting begins, track live updatesThe early trends are in line with projections by most exit polls that predicted the 31-year-old, who has emerged from the shadow of his father and RJD founder Lalu Prasad Yadav in the 2020 elections, could halt Nitish Kumar’s juggernaut. This is the first election that Tejashwi has led his party into the state election on his own since father Lalu Prasad Yadav is serving time for the fodder scam.Nitish Kumar, who has been Bihar chief minister for over 14 years, won the 2015 assembly election in alliance with RJD but switched sides in 2017 when he pole vaulted from the grand alliance with the RJD and Congress into the BJP’s team. Nitish Kumar had then painted Tejashwi Yadav as the villain, attributing his decision to dump the RJD to corruption cases against deputy chief minister Tejashwi Yadav.Track party wise results hereBack then, Nitish Kumar and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had hoped to stitch together a winning combination in 2020. But over the next three years, the NDA in Bihar first lost Upendra Kushwaha’s Rashtriya Lok Samta Party (RLSP) in 2018 and closer to the state elections, Chirag Paswan’s Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), over differences with Nitish Kumar and his party. To be sure, Chirag Paswan has made it clear that his party still supports the BJP at the Centre.It is Nitish Kumar that he had a problem with. And to get back to him, Chirag Paswan’s party fielded candidates on 137 seats, mostly upper castes in constituencies allocated to the JD(U) to chip away at the NDA’s support base. Exit polls have indicated that Chirag Paswan’s strategy could cost the JD(U) dearly in about two dozen constituencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-election-results-tejashwi-yadav-s-grand-alliance-takes-early-lead-over-nitish-kumar-s-nda/story-ipliIR4V1yIPS46ziUGb1H.html
10-11-2020||India||After 12-day blockade over border row, trucks start moving from Assam to Mizoram||Ending a 12-day blockade of a national highway following a border row between the two states, trucks started moving from Assam to Mizoram on Monday. Circle Officer of Sonai in Cachar district of Assam Sudeep Nath said that 21 trucks carrying essential goods as well as buses carrying passengers moved from Lailapur on the border with police escort. He added that empty trucks, which were stranded on the Mizoram side due to the blockade, also started entering Assam from Monday. The movement of vehicles resumed after Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla brokered chief secretary-level talks between both states on Sunday to end the impasse. According to Nath, there has been no untoward incident along the 164-km long border between the two states since Saturday and the situation is slowly returning to normalcy. Residents on the Assam side had blocked the NH 306 leading to Mizoram on October 28 seeking removal of Mizoram security forces from the border areas between two states. Assam had claimed that Mizoram’s security personnel had encroached upon its territory and had even started construction while the latter maintained that its personnel were on its territory. The residents of Lailapur decided to call off the blockade a day after Mizoram agreed to withdraw its forces from the border and deploy 3 companies of Border Security Force (BSF) along the disputed area. Tensions between both states flared up last month after some huts on the border were allegedly burnt by miscreants. In the violence that followed several persons from both sides were injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-12-day-blockade-over-border-row-trucks-start-moving-from-assam-to-mizoram/story-al5gQAQP0sCBf9z4SxQx3M.html
10-11-2020||India||Four kids die in mudslide in Bhopal||Four kids including three girls and a boy were killed while two other were injured in a mudslide in Bhopal on Monday, police said. The deceased were identified as Manoj Singh, 7, Asha Singh, 7, Sheila Singh, 9 and Kavita Singh, 10, all residents of Barkhedi village of Bhopal while Rohit, 8, and Vikram, 9, sustained serious injuries. The children were extracting mud from near a drain when loose soil caved in.Bhopal’s additional superintendent of police (ASP), Rajesh Singh Bhadoriya said, “Seven kids had gone to extract mud for their houses on Monday morning. While extracting mud, they got trapped in the mudslide. A six-year-old girl Bunty who cried for help was saved by a villager named Laxman Singh. Later, the girl told him that six more kids were trapped in the mud.” “The children were pulled from the head of mud and were rushed to Hamidia Hospital where doctors declared four of them brought dead,” said the ASP. In the preliminary postmortem report, the cause of death of kids was found to be suffocation, said the officer. Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan expressed grief over the incident and announced ex-gratia of Rs 4 lakh each to the families of the deceased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-kids-die-in-mudslide-in-bhopal/story-8oqU6VIHQPYvIqBCbiIHfI.html
10-11-2020||India||Internal differences widen in TMC, BJP watches minister Suvendu Adhikari||Differences over running the party and selection of candidates for the coming assembly polls in West Bengal have rapidly widened in recent weeks between the top leadership of the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) and several district leaders, especially transport minister Suvendu Adhikari.Many party veterans said they are apprehending desertions in the rank and file ahead of the polls which are due in about six months. A two-time former Lok Sabha member with an impressive fan following among party workers, Adhikari, 50, is acknowledged as one of the leaders who helped TMC chief Mamata Banerjee galvanize the anti-land acquisition movement at Nandigram in East Midnapore district during the Left Front rule. The two-year-long movement became a key factor in the CPI(M)’s ouster in 2011 because of the violence. The former youth leader of the TMC also oversaw poll preparations in other districts after the TMC came to power. Adhikari’s differences with the TMC has increased so much that on Tuesday he will observe the success of the Nandigram movement and condole the death of party workers outside the ambit of the TMC. The Nandigram Diwas (day) rally has been organised by Adhikari’s followers who, over the past few months, have been putting up banners and posters in districts across Bengal, declaring Adhikari as their leader and making no mention of the TMC. Over the last seven days, these posters appeared in north Bengal as well. This is unprecedented in the TMC. Senior party leaders told HT on condition of anonymity that Adhikari is specifically unhappy with Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee and election strategist Prashant Kishor who was roped in by the chief minister after the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) won 18 of the state’s 42 Lok Sabha seats in 2019. “Suvendu wants the party to field candidates of his choice in 65 assembly seats spread across several districts. This is unacceptable to the leadership. We are aware that he was approached by the BJP. There is nothing one can do if he is determined to leave. But we have information that he is not yet ready to join the saffron camp,” a top TMC leader told HT on Monday evening. “Like several other district leaders, Adhikari is also not ready to follow instructions from I-Pac, Kishor’s company,” said another TMC leader. Adhikari was not available for comment but a leader known to be close to him said, “He will lose his independence if he joins the BJP. He may launch his own platform instead for the time being which will give him bargaining power whichever way the poll results go.” Incidentally, Union home minister Amit Shah, who was on a two-day tour of Bengal last week, avoided answering questions on whether the BJP was keen on taking Adhikari on board. On Monday, BJP state president Dilip Ghosh and national vice-president Mukul Roy (a former TMC leader) flew to Delhi for a few hours to discuss poll strategy with national leaders. Members of the party’s core team led by B L Santhosh, national general secretary (organization) and a Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh pointsman, also discussed the issue of desertions from the TMC. “It is different thing if Adhikari joins the BJP. Otherwise our party is unlikely to form an alliance with anyone before the elections. What may happen after the polls is something only the future can tell,” said a senior BJP leader who did not wish to be named.Adhikari and his family have played a key role in the growth of the TMC in East Midnapore. The Kanthi and Tamluk Lok Sabha seats, most of the assembly segments comprising these and a many local bodies are controlled by 78-year-old Sisir Adhikari and his three sons since 2009. Sisir Adhikari, who served as a minister in the Manmohan Singh govt (2009-2012), is the sitting MP from Kanthi. His second son Dibyendu is the MP from Tamluk. Dibyendu’s elder brother Suvendu, who held the Tamluk Lok Sabha seat twice, resigned in 2016 to become a minister in Bengal. Dibyendu won the Kanthi South assembly seat in 2009, 2011 and 2016. He vacated it to become an MP when Suvendu became a minister. Sisir Adhikari’s youngest son Soumendu is the chairman of Kanthi municipality. Troubled by infighting among district TMC leaders, Abhishek Banerjee and Kishor travelled to Siliguri in north Bengal last month to sort things out. Mihir Goswami, the lawmaker from Cooch Behar South seat, who did not meet them despite being summoned, announced on Monday that he will leave the TMC. At Singur in south Bengal, Rabindranath Bhattacharya, the local lawmaker and former school teacher with a clean image, also threatened to quit in protest against appointment of some organizational leaders at community block level. “The thought of joining another party has crossed my mind. I have received proposals,” said Bhattacharya, who is fondly called “Mastermoshai” (teacher) by local people. Singur had witnessed a major anti-land acquisition movement by Mamata Banerjee against the Tata’s small car project. Though infighting is not new in the TMC, the current spate has its roots in the induction of younger faces in district committees during a reshuffle in July this year. Done on the recommendations of Kishor, the structural changes have made many old-timers insecure. In May 2017, the state BJP started acting on a masterplan prepared by Amit Shah who was then party president. Taking some pointers from the Marxists’ proverbial organisational strategy, Shah instructed state leaders to expand the BJP’s presence right down to 77,000-odd polling booth areas. Since that work is not yet complete, split in the TMC’s district units can only help the BJP, saffron camp leaders feel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/internal-differences-widen-in-tmc-bjp-watches-minister-suvendu-adhikari/story-WFyQqUjyueygCIlLVSv0VI.html
10-11-2020||India||Delhiwale: The joys of signage art||Here’s a delicious assault of the shop signages. New Fashion House has “parde hi parde,” boasting a great choice of curtains. Sudhiksha Beauty Parlour also happens to be a Training Centre (presumably for aspiring beauticians). And Kavya Collection is stocked with “fancy kurtis, slex, top, leggings, etc.”These vital infos are screaming out from the shop hoardings in Yasin Plaza. This ramshackle multi-storey shopping complex is nothing like the glitzy malls that this part of the National Capital Region is known for. It’s a shabby building, in old Gurugram’s Sadar Bazaar, faces the Jama Masjid and a grassless park. It has many tailoring establishments, plus a popular eatery serving passable chhole bhature.It would be fair to say you won’t miss much by never stepping inside. In the old times.But now you ought to drop by.After months of staying home due to the coronavirus pandemic, of making online shopping a habit, and of succumbing to all sorts of snazzy ads popping up on your Instagram and Facebook feeds, entering Yasin Plaza is like stepping into a museum. Here’s a world of archaic advertising, and of small businesses tempting customers with small hoardings announcing their shop names and specialities in multi-coloured Hindi and English fonts.Think of it. Increasingly, as independent shops turn into retail chain outlets, their hoardings have become uniform in all cities—all showing the same brand names in the same aesthetics. But a walk inside the Yasin Plaza forcefully transports the viewer to the shrinking world of early visual advertising. Simply mulling over the eclectic names of the shops gives a sense of the aspirations, identities and diversities of the place, its store owners and customers.Start with the huge column on the plaza’s staircase that is decked with banners. Among other things, it champions interfaith tolerance—Om Collection - Ladies Boutique is atop Khan Tailors - Men’s Wear. Other placards evoke other wonders. Does Continental Tailors have European dressing as its ideal? What can Rajput Fashion - Leather Items be all about?Each signage is a palette of many colours, with separate words done in separate shades. They get more descriptive as you approach the individual shops. The so-named Rafiq - The Tailoring Point is a mishmash of fonts and images. It prominently shows a painting of a safari suit, a dress that went out of style some decades ago.Delhi Tailors choses to be text-heavy—like those super-confident minimalist book covers, whose publishers think that putting only the title and the author’s name on the page will be enough.Also check the pillar-length advertisement of the aforementioned chhole bhature establishment. This is a neatly executed geometrical arrangement of dish names in Devanagari, and is more tasteful than the chhole.In our globalised world, as all of us are being bombarded with the same choices, brands and advertising slogans no matter how disparate our GPS coordinates, here is an opportunity to gaze upon something so hyperlocal that it exists nowhere else. The complex opens daily from 9am to 9.30pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-the-joys-of-signage-art/story-bFyJoiQG1sIonvez15ffiK.html
10-11-2020||India||Cut adjournments in criminal trials against lawmakers, says Supreme Court||The Supreme Court has asked for major changes in how cases against sitting and former lawmakers are heard, putting a bar on unnecessary adjournments and indefinite stays in pending criminal trials, and considering to offer protection even without a formal request to all witnesses.These new rules, which will apply to cases against both sitting and former members of Parliament and legislative assemblies, are part of a Supreme Court order on November 4 in a PIL filed by BJP leader and lawyer Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay.The full order was made public on Monday. Upadhyay’s petition, being heard by the top court since 2016, demanded the quick resolution of criminal trials pending against lawmakers. Senior advocate Vijay Hansaria and advocate Sneha Kalita, who are assisting the SC as amicus curiae in the case, pressed for many reforms in a report submitted on November 2.There are 4,859 criminal cases pending against lawmakers across the country. Of these, 2,556 cases involve sitting legislators.In the order, a three-judge bench, headed by justice NV Ramana and also comprising justices Surya Kant and Aniruddha Bose, said: “Keeping in mind the public interest involved in these matters, and in order to prevent undue delay, we direct that no unnecessary adjournments be granted in these matters (involving MPs/MLAs).”Senior advocate Gopal Shankarnaraynan, appearing for Upadhyay, argued that stay orders cannot be indefinite.The court was also particular about enhancing the scope of the witness protection scheme for people deposing in cases against lawmakers. “Keeping in mind the vulnerability of the witnesses in such cases, the trial court may consider granting protection under the said scheme to witnesses without their making any specific application in this regard,” the top court said in the order. Advocate Sneha Kalita, who is assisting the amicus curiae in the present case said, “Using political might, money and muscle power, trial in such cases get prolonged. The decision of the court is a step in the right direction.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cut-adjournments-in-criminal-trials-against-lawmakers-says-supreme-court/story-XD2rGbNrR2GujcN9YnR5LN.html
10-11-2020||India||Derek O’Brien questions Parliamentary panel functioning on data privacy||Trinamool Congress Rajya Sabha floor leader Derek O’Brien expressed “serious concern” at what he described as the hasty functioning of the parliamentary panel on the Data Protection Bill, 2019, saying “this is not how a Joint Parliamentary Committee functions”, signalling differences in the process to fine-tune India’s first data privacy law.In a letter to panel chairperson Meenakshi Lekhi, O’Brien argued that more stakeholders should be consulted and said it was difficult for MPs living outside Delhi to attend successive meetings within a week.“For a Bill that seeks to establish a comprehensive data policy in India, a committee which is simply going through the motions is a grave injustice. This committee has been formed with the mandate of both Houses of Parliament but it is unfortunate that the essence of the JPC is being violated,” O’Brien wrote on November 7. The JPC on the Personal Data Protection Bill, formed December last year with members from LS and RS, has met representatives from Facebook, Twitter, Google, Amazon, telecom service providers Jio and Airtel and some payment service providers like Paytm.O’Brien wrote: “It is of serious concern that the Committee is considering clause-by-clause consideration of the contents of the Bill before completing its consultations with all stakeholders.” The consideration of clauses of a bill is usually the last stage of discussion in a parliamentary panel before the draft report is finalised. O’Brien suggested, “consumer groups, e-commerce companies, online streaming platforms and aggregators, civil society groups & think-tanks operating in the domain, more legal groups with expertise in the areas of cyber policy, data privacy and data protection” to be invited to depose before the panel.When contacted, Lekhi said, “It’s almost a year since this JPC was constituted and like all JPCs this is also time bound; this one was given three months. Two extensions have already been sought and taken. It’s a sensitive issue as admitted by Mr O’Brien himself, which needs effective and timely redressal and cannot be hanging fire. So many leaders across party lines including from his own party have been attending the meetings diligently.”The TMC leader said there have been 18 meetings of the committee over 10 months. “In the first 7 months, the Committee had only 5 meetings. Post that, in only 3 months, we have had 13 more meetings. Now in the middle of a pandemic, the committee is meeting three days a week.”Lekhi responded: “This seems like a belated realisation from someone who has been absent. Facilities in Delhi are provided for Parliamentary work. He has been attending Parliament even during the pandemic, but cannot find the time to attend committee meetings. Histrionics may work in Rajya Sabha, but committee proceedings are hard work behind closed doors.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/derek-o-brien-questions-parliamentary-panel-functioning-on-data-privacy/story-5ytb81BFYWBQj4DW58I3LJ.html
10-11-2020||India||15th Finance Commission submits report to Kovind||The 15th Finance Commission, which decides the sharing of resources between the Centre and states, submitted its report for the five-yearly period between 2021-22 and 2025-26 to President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday, making wide-ranging recommendations that are likely to be seminal in the area of health care, financial incentives to states based on performance, and national security.The report by the commission, headed by NK Singh, comes at a juncture when the Covid-19 pandemic has greatly strained government revenues, shrinking the resource pie, and amid a turbulent Centre-states relationship over payment of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation cess.Titled “Finance Commission in Covid Times”, the four-volume report contains, for the first time, a chapter on the health care scenario of the country, accompanied by recommendations likely to prove crucial in ramping up public-health spending in a post-pandemic era. “Over the next five years, the Centre alone should be able to spend at least 2.1% of GDP on health,” chairman NK Singh told HT in an interview on July 8.A key term of reference by the Centre to the commission is the creation of a non-lapsable defence and internal security fund, either through allocation from the divisible pool of funds, from which resources are shared between the Centre and states, or through a cess. The report has addressed this, and several other wide-ranging proposals written into its mandate. “The commission has sought to address all its terms of references in this report to the Union government. The commission has analysed the finances of each state in great depth and has come up with state-specific considerations to address the key challenges that individual states face,” an official statement said.The Constitution, through Articles 280 to 281, provides for finance commissions, set up every five years, as a mechanism to divide taxes and revenues vertically i.e. between the Centre and states, and horizontally, i.e. among all states, based on their levels of development, prosperity and regional needs.Over the years, finance commissions have incrementally increased the share of states in resources, but also linked grants and incentives to states based on their performance in various areas, such as demography, sanitation, public health, and so on. The previous 14th Finance Commission recommended a leap in states’ share, raising it by 10 percentage points to 42%. The 15th commission has reviewed the recommendations of the 14th commission, which was one of its mandates.According to its terms of reference set by the President, the commission has examined and recommended performance incentives for states in several areas, such as power-sector reforms, adoption of direct benefit transfers, solid waste management, and others.Given the shrinking base, what states would get in absolute terms would matter more than the percentage share over the next five years, a senior official told HT requesting anonymity in a November 7 interview. Also, since the pie is smaller, the grants component recommended by the commission “becomes very important for states”, he said.The recommendations, for the next five years, are unlikely to be made public anytime soon, and will possibly be tabled in the Parliament, along with an action-taken report, when finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman presents the Budget next February.The report’s Volume I and II contain the main report. Volume III is devoted to the central government and examines key departments in greater depth, with the medium-term challenges and the road map ahead. Volume IV is devoted to the states. Members of the commission included Ajay Narayan Jha, Anoop Singh, Ashok Lahiri and Ramesh Chand, who along with chairman NK Singh and secretary to the commission, Arvind Mehta, presented the report to the president.According to NR Bhanumurthy, vice-chancellor of the Dr BR Ambedkar School of Economics, the pandemic need not impact the “devolution formula” mainly because all states had been affected equally. “What might be impacted is the fiscal responsibility and budget management road map because the pandemic has put huge pressure on both expenditure and revenue,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/15th-finance-commission-submits-report-to-kovind/story-X9DPENCPlfh48WPcd0ZhkN.html
10-11-2020||India||Foreign secy to visit Nepal to boost bilateral ties||Foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla will travel to Kathmandu later this month for a formal dialogue between the two countries, a sign that New Delhi is willing to go the extra mile to improve bilateral ties that nosedived earlier this year, people familiar with the matter said.The decision to send the foreign secretary comes days after Indian Army chief General MM Naravane was conferred the honorary rank of general of the Nepali Army. Naravane met Nepal’s Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli who underscored that the two countries could resolve all problems between them through dialogue because they have a longstanding special relationship.Oli faced resistance within his cabinet to Naravane’s visit but dealt with it, even withdrawing the defence portfolio from deputy prime minister Ishwar Pokhrel, according to people aware of the developments.Naravane’s visit was considered crucial, particularly given that he was the first one in the Indian side to react to protests by Nepal’s government over a border road built in Uttarakhand. It was very possible that Nepal raised the issue at someone else’s behest, he said in May, a remark that was interpreted as implying that Beijing could have prodded Nepal to create a new boundary dispute.It was not clear if Oli directly broached the topic when Naravane called on him last week.People familiar with the discussions said Oli, who also holds the defence portfolio after shunting out Pokhrel, did make a pointed reference to the fallout of the row over Nepal’s political map, describing it as a “misunderstanding”. At the same time, he underlined that Nepal takes its sovereignty very seriously, a remark that is being seen in New Delhi as explaining his decision to issue a fresh political map.During the two days – November 26 and 27 – that Shringla spends in Kathmandu, he is scheduled to hold meetings with his counterpart Bharat Raj Paudyal, who took charge just last month, and foreign minister Pradeep Kumar Gyawali. The career diplomat will also meet President Bidhya Devi Bhandari and Prime Minister Oli during his visit.Shringla’s conversations in Nepal are also expected to lead both sides to finalise the schedule for the meeting of the Joint Technical Level Boundary Committee.Officials stressed that the boundary issue was going to be only one aspect of the visit. “This is not a single-agenda visit,” a senior diplomat said, pointing out that the visit could see India committing to help Nepal with coronavirus vaccines once its production begins. Also, the two sides will discuss the revival of the Pancheshwar multi-purpose project on river Mahakali as well as other hydro-electric projects.India was holding off on Shringla’s visit for most of this year to convey New Delhi’s displeasure over the Nepal government’s move to issue a new political map that included a slice of land including the Limpiyadhura, Lipulekh and Kalapani areas to the west of Nepal. New Delhi rejected the map, brushing away what it said was Nepal’s effort at a cartographic expansion.Nepal has been working at mollifying New Delhi for some time and withdrew school textbooks that contained the new political map. Last month, Research and Analysis Wing chief Samant Kumar Goel did the groundwork for restoring ties during his quiet visit to Nepal, according to the people quoted above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreign-secy-to-visit-nepal-to-boost-bilateral-ties/story-HTISCig2S97NnLo3ZHdtBJ.html
10-11-2020||India||If you can talk to China, why not Pakistan, says Mehbooba Mufti||Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti said on Monday that militancy was on the rise in Kashmir, even as she said that dialogue with Pakistan and stakeholders in Jammu & Kashmir was important to bring peace to the region.Mufti on Monday visited Jammu for the first time after her release from a 14-month detention following the revocation of the special status to Jammu & Kashmir. Speaking against the Centre’s move in August last year, Mufti said the “arbitrary and illegal decision” forced youngsters to pick up arms.“Today, 10-15 young men are joining militancy from each village because the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has suppressed their voices. People don’t have any option left. Faced with the option of either going to jail or picking up arms, they choose to pick up arms and die. As the BJP [Bharatiya Janata Party] doesn’t allow people to speak, they are ready to explode,” she said.Asking the Centre to hold dialogue with Pakistan in a bid to bring border skirmishes to an end and restore peace, she said: “If you can talk to China, why can’t you talk to Pakistan? We have been pleading with China to give us our land back but they are not budging from their stand. Why can’t we talk to Pakistan?” She said that there was no other way to resolve the Kashmir issue than the one shown by former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. “My father (Mufti Mohammad Sayeed) always wanted to see border opened between India and Pakistan. Let J&K become a bridge of peace between India and Pakistan,” she added.“We have to take a leaf out of that book and start a dialogue with them (Pakistan) and with the stakeholders in J&K. When we can hold eight rounds of talks with China which martyred our 20 soldiers and we did not even raise our finger,” she said.“Our jobs, natural resources and land… everything has been put on sale by the BJP. Article 370 was a protective shield provided by Maharaja Hari Singh to protect the distinct Dogra identity and culture under the Indian Constitution. However, the BJP has desecrated Dr BR Ambedkar’s Constitution,” she added.“Article 370 is not linked to Muslims or Hindus. It was enacted to protect the identity of J&K,” Mufti said.The BJP recently said that Mufti was attempting to disturb peace in the region by instigating the people of Kashmir. Jammu & Kashmir BJP president Ravinder Raina said that “no power on earth” could restore Article 370.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-you-can-talk-to-china-why-not-pakistan-says-mehbooba-mufti/story-1E9auzxuPGJrkbdsR9stFN.html
10-11-2020||India||Punjab also takes back consent to CBI to probe cases||The Congress-led government in Punjab on Monday became the latest state government to withdraw the general consent accorded to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to investigate cases in the state. It now joins a list of non-BJP ruled states that have enacted similar measures.The move by the Captain Amarinder Singh-led government means that the central agency will have to seek permission from the state government on a case-to-case basis to investigate cases in the state.Jharkhand, Rajasthan, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Kerala and Chhattisgarh are other states that have withdrawn the general consent accorded to the CBI to exercise its powers under the Delhi Special Police Establishment (DPSE) Act.The withdrawal of the consent is not unprecedented but never have so many states withdrawn the consent to the federal investigating agency. As per the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act that governs the CBI, the agency requires prior consent to exercise its authority in states.The withdrawal of consent through a notification issued by the state home department comes amid a standoff between the state and the Centre over the contentious farm laws. “The general consent granted to the CBI under Section 6 of the DPSE Act has been revoked. If the CBI has to investigate any offence or class of offences related to the state, prior consent of the Punjab government will be required on a case-to-case basis,” said a senior officer familiar with the matter.The official said that law and order is a state subject and there are multiple agencies in the state to probe cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-also-takes-back-consent-to-cbi-to-probe-cases/story-9wvPpzzCB6zISPxMWW3sHJ.html
10-11-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||The big news of Monday is, of course, on Page 1 of this paper -- on the Pfizer-BioNTech mRNA vaccine being at least 90% effective in preventing Covid-19 according to the first interim analysis of late stage trail data. Pfizer’s CEO termed it a “great day for science and humanity,” and history may well prove him right, although there are still a few hurdles the vaccine has to clear. If it does that, it may well be available by the end of the year (See front page). But this column isn’t about vaccines; it is about spillovers. David Quammen’s 2012 book, Spillover: Animal Infections and the Next Human Pandemic, and the chapter on AIDS from it, later published as a separate book, The Chimp and the River: How AIDS Emerged from an African Forest, are among the best reads on zoonotic diseases. A spillover is an infection that originates in a non-human species but spills over into humans. In the case of AIDS, as Quammen chronicles, everything began with one “bloody encounter” between a Cameroonian hunter and an infected chimpanzee. In the case of Mers (Middle Eastern Respiratory Syndrome), a camel figures somewhere in the chain. And in the case of Sars, the virus was traced back to civets (hunted for meat), and further back to a species of horseshoe bats. Sars-CoV2, the virus behind the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), is believed to have jumped from horseshoe bats, perhaps to an intermediary (pangolins are likely candidates), and then to humans, although this chain is still being investigated. Spillovers are far more common than people think (to be fair, many of the zoonotic pathogens are common ones such as Salmonella), although there are times when a new virus emerges. The virus behind AIDS was new. As were those responsible for Sars, Mers, and Ebola. And, more recently, Covid-19. These are so-called black swan events that result in nightmarish scenarios – and, unfortunately, given indiscriminate commercial farming of animals for meat or fur, and rampant deforestation and hunting (the consumption of bushmeat is widely believed to be behind Ebola), they are becoming far more common than the generic term used to describe them would suggest.There’s been a lot of interest in spillovers in recent days because of minks in Denmark. Minks are small carnivorous mammals that belong to the same family as weasels, otters, ferrets, and wolverines (Mustelidae). In Dispatch 151 on September 7, I wrote about Netherlands deciding to close its mink farms by next March ahead of a planned 2024 deadline following research by the Erasmus Medical Centre, Rotterdam, that showed workers in mink farms (the animals are farmed for fur) were infected by other workers, who passed on the infection to more workers, suggesting that the virus was anthropozoonotic (capable of jumping from humans to animals), apart from being zoonotic (capable of jumping from animals to humans) in the case of minks. Last week, Denmark announced that it is culling the entire mink population of its farms – around 17 million – citing mutations in the virus as it jumped from humans to minks, and then back. Worryingly (and scarily), the country’s environment ministry said in a statement that state health authorities “have now found a mutation in tests from five mink farms in Northern Jutland and in tests from 12 persons, and testing shows that the potential vaccines would not work effectively on this mutated virus”.The statement also clarified that “there is no evidence that those people infected with this mutation experience a more serious disease”. Denmark has already started sharing the results of its genomic sequencing of the mutated virus on scientific databases, and more research is needed to understand and confirm the effect the mutation has on the infectivity of the virus, the severity of the disease, and the response to vaccines under development. This is the year that proved Murphy’s Law beyond doubt, so how worried should we be? The opinion of most experts is: not much (although they’d like to see more data); many think the link Denmark makes about the mutation and the effectiveness of vaccines may not be backed by research. It’s not uncommon for viruses to jump from humans to animals. And Sars-CoV2 is no longer a strange virus whose effect on the human body is unknown. Still, it is 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-J4sDUP6WROA2SwZyMwubRN.html
10-11-2020||India||Emergency in the air: NGT extends cracker ban, curbs||Bursting or selling firecrackers in the Delhi-National Capital Region (NCR) as well as much of north India will be prohibited till December 1, the National Green Tribunal said on Monday, announcing a near-sweeping ban that stems from concerns that already critical levels of air pollution will add to the growing toll of the Covid-19 pandemic.In a 58-page order, NGT said the ban will apply to all cities or towns where the average air quality during November (as per last year’s data) was in “poor” category, or worse. The order refers to submissions by an amicus on the links between severe air pollution and Covid-19 infections as well as mortality. In Delhi, where the air quality index remained in the “severe” category for the fifth consecutive day, state environment minister Gopal Rai announced that people not complying with the ban on firecrackers will face action under the Air Act which means a jail term of up to six years and a fine of up to ₹1 lakh. The announcement was made after a meeting between the state government, and district and police officials to discuss standard operating procedures to implement the ban.Firecrackers emit plumes of heavy metals into the air, which is already a toxic mix of ultra-fine PM2.5 and fine PM10 particles spewed by farm fires and local sources such as vehicles and construction dust. The air is already past the point of what is fit for breathing, experts said, welcoming Monday’s ban.“Air pollution in Delhi is at hazardous levels. This time, the period of hazardous air seems to have arrived even before Diwali. The relationship of air pollution with severity of pneumonia is well established. Therefore, it is expected that there will be an increase in positivity and severity of Covid 19. All efforts should be made to curb pollution,” said Dr GC Khilnani, chairman of PSRI Institute of Pulmonary and Critical care and former head of pulmonology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). Across the country, in cities or towns where air quality is “moderate” , only green crackers can be sold — and burst for two hours during festivals. If nothing is specified by a state, the timing for firecrackers will be 8 to 10pm on Diwali and Gurupurab, and 6am to 8am on Chhath. On Christmas and New Year’s Eve, this can be between 11.55pm and 12.30am. In other places, ban/restrictions are optional but if there are more stringent measures by the state authorities, they will prevail, NGT said.By HT’s estimates, seven states and Union territories around the country have completely banned crackers. The NGT order directed chief secretaries and police chiefs of all states and Union territories to issue and circulate appropriate orders and enforcement guidelines. It added that the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and state pollution control boards are to regularly monitor the air quality during the ban and upload all data on their websites. An independent analysis by HT of CPCB’s publicly released AQI data for November 2019 showed that of the 110 cities for which AQI was released that month (which will serve as the basis for the ban), 42 had an average AQI that was “poor” or worse through the month.CPCB collects AQI data from 387 cities across the country, of which only 110 were published in the agency’s daily AQI bulletins in November 2019. CPCB officials said that data of remaining cities is collected manually, and thus not included in the daily bulletin. This will be included in the final list of cities, they added.“The assessment of where the ban on firecrackers will be imposed will have to be made by respective state pollution control boards based on NGT’s order. But generally, we understand that ban may be imposed in all of north India while peninsular; parts of northeast India may not have to impose the ban,” a senior CPCB official said, asking not to be named. To be sure, some states have already banned the use of firecrackers this year. These include Odisha, Rajasthan, Chandigarh, Sikkim, Delhi, Bengal and Tripura. Two key NCR states, Haryana and Punjab have a partial ban in place, but will now need to follow the NGT direction. The ban is not likely to be easy to enforce given religious sensitivities and economic compulsions. “Diwali is a special challenge this year given the twin crisis of Covid pandemic and winter pollution. Past experience has shown that enforcement of ban and restrictions on crackers need strong public support and awareness. It is therefore important to make people aware that we cannot afford to increase disease burden from short term toxic exposure when winter smog is also worsening the health risk,” said Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director, Centre for Science and Environment.Similar bans in the past, particularly the one enforced by the Supreme Court in 2018, were widely flouted.The Tamil Nadu Fireworks and Amorces Manufacturer’s Association, Sivakasi (TNFAM) claimed during the NGT hearing that there is no correlation between use of firecrackers and increase in the number of Covid cases. They cited data from Ayodhya, where people celebrated the beginning of the Ram Temple construction with fireworks but there was no increase in Covid 19 cases. Santosh Harish, fellow at Centre for Policy Research, said, “The NGT order is a welcome move... Also, this idea of laying out a broader principle restricting firecrackers across the country is useful. Now, the responsibility is with state governments. However, instead of a last minute order, if such directions had been provided a few months earlier, it would have improved the implementation and likely reduced economic hardship for those that depend on the fireworks industry.”Firecracker traders said the timing of the ban would impact their earnings, especially since the lockdown earlier in the year had caused hardships. “States like Maharashtra have announced that they won’t ban firecracker despite having a high number of cases in the state. Though we are worried about the number of Covid-19 cases and the pandemic threat, what about the economic hardship faced by small-time traders? ” asked Subhash Chandra Jain, a firecracker trader in old Delhi who has been in the business for around four decades.Jain said that traders like him who deal in the business all year round will not face losses as huge as those who took loans to secure firecracker stocks and temporary licences. “The Delhi government officials held meetings with the fireworks traders and gave us the thumbs-up for green crackers. Now, they have imposed a ban. The government should have done its homework.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/emergency-in-the-air-ngt-extends-cracker-ban-curbs/story-VsLmL81ABbFkuWrnHeDvhI.html
10-11-2020||India||Nitish Kumar or Tejashwi Yadav? Verdict day in Bihar||Counting is scheduled on Tuesday in the first mass elections in the country during the Covid-19 pandemic, with the results expected to determine the fate of Bihar, possibly set the agenda for the evolution of the politics of “social justice”, and perhaps herald the emergence of a new generation of leaders in the state.Exit polls have given either a decisive lead or an edge to the Mahagatbandhan (Grand Alliance) of Opposition parties led by Tejashwi Yadav, and shown the Nitish Kumar-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) struggling to retain power. To be sure, exit polls got the verdict wrong in 2015, when the Grand Alliance won the elections and ruled for 18 months, until Nitish Kumar switched to the NDA.Parties across the political spectrum on Monday publicly talked up the prospects of their respective parties — a tool often used to motivate workers on counting day and keep up the morale of supporters — while privately beginning efforts to ensure that their respective alliances would have the edge in case of fragmented verdict for the 243-member assembly.Click here for complete coverage on Bihar Assembly election 2020Janata Dal (United) executive president Ashok Choudhary dismissed the findings of the exit polls and said that all predictions would go wrong, as they did in 2015, and suggested that Nitish Kumar would return to power. On the other side, Tejashwi Yadav, who turned 31 on Monday, received birthday greetings from his father Lalu Prasad and several colleagues, many of whom offered their congratulations even before the results, while Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) state president Jagdanand Singh asked all the district presidents to stay put outside strong rooms and keep watch over electronic voting machines (EVMs) until the counting is finished.Among the national parties, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which has been witnessing an internal debate on whether sticking to Nitish Kumar was the wise course in this election, projected confidence about the outcome.The party’s national media co in-charge Sanjay Mayukh said that the party was confident of a convincing majority in Bihar again. “There is nothing to be worried about,” he said.The Congress, for its part, predicted the end of the incumbent government, and a person familiar with the party’s internal assessment claimed that the Mahagathbandhan was likely to win between 130 and 150 seats and the Congress was hopeful of bagging 40 seats on its own. As a precautionary step to prevent any “poaching” attempt, the Congress has asked all its winning candidates to gather at a hotel in Patna and report to general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala for further instructions.Also read: Bihar readies for D-day amid predictions of changeBut experts believe that the real importance of the election lies in its broader message — of how citizens have assessed the response of the government to the pandemic, the possible eclipse of the era of Mandal politics and leaders born out of that moment, the perception of Kumar’s third full term, and the attention that Tejashwi Yadav has got because of his new vocabulary of politics, shifting focus from “social justice” to “economic justice”.Rahul Verma, fellow at the Centre for Policy Research, said, “The 2020 elections bring closure to the patterns of competition set forth in the 1990s. There is a shelf-life to any kind of politics — be it socialist-Mandal politics of Lalu Prasad or provision of basic necessities of Nitish Kumar. Leaders must continue to reinvent their narrative to respond to new aspirations.” This, Verma suggested, happened with Yadav understanding the limits of the social justice plank and constructing the economic justice plank. “Kumar’s campaign was wrapped in the past, with no focussed line of attack, no new promise.”Chandrachur Singh, a political scientist at Delhi University’s Hindu College, agreed and said that while caste-based strategies for political mobilisations may have deepened/widened or even bridged democratic deficits and conferred democratic legitimacy on Bihar’s polity, this had reached its limits. “The mindless application of policies of social justice overlooking issues of governance, all-round-development and rule of law has had its own costs — harshly impacting the youth in the state across caste divides. Whatever may be the outcome, the agenda of education and employment opportunities will become stronger in the times to come.”Political scientist Manisha Priyam said that the elections had played a significant role in bringing forth the voices of the poor in general and labour in particular. “In these elections, the world’s poorest have used the opportunity of voting to express their views on political change but, even more so, to express their voice and vulnerability as labour that was hanging on to insecure work opportunities at the fringes of in few urban centres”. Tuesday’s results, she suggested, is also a moment to watch out for the assertion of young citizens, and their ability to think as a new generation and critique prior pathways of politics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitish-or-tejashwi-verdict-day-in-bihar/story-q3crie8xnykFrXjWnZYzMM.html
10-11-2020||India||IIMs offer one-year MBA despite ministry caution||Months after the Union education ministry wrote to the prestigious Indian Institutes of Management (IIMs) that the one-year-MBA degree programmes being run by them violated norms, many of these B-schools have decided to continue offering them, triggering a fresh debate on the issue of their autonomy.IIM-Indore on Monday invited fresh applications for its one-year Executive Post Programme in Management for the year 2021-22 while the IIMs at Ahmedabad and Bangalore also carried details of similar programmes on their websites.A senior official at one of the IIMs, who asked not to be identified, confirmed that many of the IIMs that were offering the one-year MBA degree course have decided to pursue the matter with the ministry and meanwhile “continue with the programmes”.“The ministry raised objections to the one-year course and that is being discussed including with the ministry. Meanwhile, several of the IIMs are continuing with the course. Some of the IIMs are also keeping aspirants updated about the status through caveats,” added this person. One such warning/caveat was visible on the IIM-Bangalore website in the section where it gave details of the one-year course.“IIM-B is working with all the other IIMs to engage with and address the concerns of the MHRD related to the programme. The final structure of the programme (degree /diploma) will depend upon the outcome of the said interaction,” the warning said.IIM-Ahmedabad has a similar caveat in a brochure on the one-year degree programmes.Senior officials from IIM-Ahmedabad, Bangalore and Indore when contacted were not willing to speak on the matter on record.“There is a view among the IIMs that they have autonomy in such matters. Also they can take up any issue with ministry if required,” said a second senior official of one of the IIMs who did not wish to be identified.In June, the Union education ministry wrote to the B-schools saying they cannot offer one-year post graduate degrees in management and should follow the University Grants Commission (UGC) regulations which do not allow this .The ministry said it sought the opinion of the law ministry on the matte and that the latter’s recommended was against one-year degrees.The education ministry said that the quality of degrees could be compromised if the duration were curtailed.When contacted , an official at the education ministry said there is no change in the ministry’s position. “The ministry has already made the position clear,” added this person who asked not to be named.The IIM Act of 2017 granted degree- giving powers to the 20 IIMs who are the country’s premier B-schools. However, after the passage of the act, which gave academic autonomy to these management institutes, a debate has raged on whether the IIMs can also decide to provide one-year post graduate degree courses. Post graduate programmes usually have a duration of two years. Some of the IIMs were of the opinion that they were empowered to issue one-year degrees . Education ministry officials, however, have argued that the issuance of one-year degrees also creates a precedent. If the IIMs can issue such degrees, then other institutions may also want to, they argue. And it the programme can be one-year long, then how long before someone decides to make it six-months long? The UGC Act defines the duration of programmes.Experts said that a one-year course may end up “diluting” degrees.“A one-year PG MBA degree at this stage is academically incorrect. It is true that since 2017, IIMs have been given academic autonomy but it should not result in diluting their degrees. In NEP2020, there are provisions for three- or four-year UG programmes. One year MBA programme after four years of UG may be justified. But that situation shall arise after few years, not now,” said professor Inder Mohan Kapahy, a former UGC member.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iims-offer-one-year-mba-despite-ministry-caution/story-Vqe73Cgs43vFWSj3QoP1jO.html
10-11-2020||India||Local4Diwali: Ministries and celebs get on board PM Modi’s appeal to buy from local artisans||Festivals bring communities closer and are a time to spread cheer. Propagating this thought, Prime Minister of India Narendra Modi urged people to buy local this Diwali. “It will strengthen local identity and will illuminate Diwali of craftsmen and artisans who make these products. Celebrate Diwali with local, be vocal for local. You will see, it will bring a new life to the entire economy,” Modi said. Diwali is approaching. Inspired by the festive spirit, let us spread brightness, happiness and prosperity. Support Indian talent! #Local4Diwali https://t.co/RIzEkbTDNJNo sooner was this message heard that people sprung into action, with various union ministers sharing it. Union Cabinet Minister for Textiles Smriti Z Irani posted it on her social media, asking people to share their photos using handicraft products, weaves, art and more. Among the many celebrities and boards sharing this is FDCI (Fashion Design Council of India).   I always practice what I tweet. I just bought this from a local in Goa. Earlier we came together to honour our weavers & now it's time to support our artisans by bringing in the joy of a simple earthen diya, rangoli & other embellishments from our local market. This Diwali, let's help our artisans, local & small businesses! #Local4Diwali @smritiiraniofficialA post shared by  AMIT SADH (@theamitsadh) on Nov 9, 2020 at 5:20am PSTSunil Sethi, chairman, FDCI, says, “We are making people aware that we need to go and buy local for Diwali. Whether it is to bring to your own home or to gift, go out and buy something made by an artisan. If you don’t support the artisan, then local will never prosper. The idea is to support the local artisan wherever you are. No matter how austere we need to be given the pandemic, the fact remains that Diwali and other festivities are an occasion for celebration. FDCI is not only appealing to the designers but also to out fraternity. When you buy local from artisans, there is also a feel-good factor.”  #Repost @lakmefashionwk Under the aegis of the Ministry of Textiles, we support the social media campaign #Local4Diwali. Encourage Diwali sales through the medium of weavers, artisans, local and small businesses and show your support on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. Use the hashtag #Local4Diwali; take a picture of your favourite article ---- be it clothing or handcrafted product, tag the person you purchase it from and go #Local4Diwali. @ministryoftextilesgoi @smritiiraniofficial @fdciofficial #imgreliance #Local4Diwali @lakmefashionwkA post shared by  FDCI (@fdciofficial) on Nov 9, 2020 at 4:33am PSTThe initiative has gained steam, especially given the power of social media. Designer Nachiket Barve, who shared a photo of him and his wife Surabhi wearing chanderi gota-patti kurtas against the backdrop of a pichwai painting, says, “This initiative reinforces this idea and the kind of reach social media has it can influence popular imagination. Over the years, everything which is foreign or foreign-endorsed became the benchmark of excellence. We forgot what it means to celebrate where we are and who we are. As a designer and a brand, I believe in local, whether it is art, décor at home or the kind of clothes we make.”  Always Vocal for Local... in our festive best... handwoven chanderi and gotapatti Kurta and the Tusshar Silk textured Men’s Kurta ... as we get ready to celebrate Diwali! Our home and our loves are intertwined with Indian Art, India’s rich Craft and our modern spin on these craft traditions. The exquisite #pichwai created in Nathdwara forms the favourite backdrop for our photos. @smritiiraniofficial @ministryoftextilesgoi #local4diwali #Local4DiwaliA post shared by  NACHIKETBARVE (@nachiketbarve) on Nov 9, 2020 at 2:53am PSTInteract with Etti Bali @TheBalinianFollow @htcity for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/local4diwali-ministries-and-celebs-get-on-board-pm-modi-s-appeal-to-buy-from-local-artisans/story-PFV9EfM8omF4P1dLwjk8II.html
10-11-2020||India||Over 31 million exposed to Covid in Karnataka: Sero study projections||Close to 31.5 million people in Karnataka are projected to have been infected by the Sars-COV-2 virus, according to a seroprevalence study carried out by an independent group of researchers, which suggests the actual number of infections in the state could be close to 100 times higher than the 327,000-odd cases confirmed till end of August.The research uses a survey design that has previously been utilised to gather detailed household econometrics, making it one of the most comprehensive such exercises yet. Sero prevalence studies, which involve drawing blood to determine presence of antibodies, typically require careful consideration in sampling in order to get a true picture of prevalence in a given area.“Adjusted seroprevalence across Karnataka was 46.7%, (95% CI: 43.3-50.0), including 44.1% (95% CI: 40.0-48.2) in rural and 53.8% (95% CI: 48.4-59.2) in urban areas... The relatively high prevalence in rural areas is consistent with the higher level of mobility measured in rural areas, perhaps because of agricultural activity,” said the researchers from IDFC Institute in their paper published as a preprint on medRxiv.The researchers collected samples from close to 3,000 households in 20 districts in the state from mid-June through August 2020 and also swabbed respondents for RT-PCR tests to determine active infections. “The proportion of those testing positive on RT-PCR, ranged from 1.5 to 7.7% in rural areas and 4.0 to 10.5% in urban areas, suggesting a rapidly growing epidemic,” they added. “Our findings provide new evidence that the Covid-19 epidemic in India has affected rural areas almost as severely as urban areas, despite early attention to the epidemic in urban areas,” the researchers adding, identifying two key factors: “First, the release of the lockdown imposed in March was immediately followed by a large migration of daily labourers who lost their sources of income in urban centers and returned home to rural parts of the country...“A second contributing factor was that, while urban areas experienced severe lockdowns, rural areas experienced fewer restrictions on mobility because agricultural activity was deemed an essential sector,” they said.Survey design is a “critical challenge,” said lead author Manoj Mohanan, a professor at Duke university and a fellow at IDFC Institute. He added that for the study, they partnered with CMIE, which runs the world’s largest household survey panel known as the Consumer Pyramids Household Survey covering a little under 175,000 households in India. Among these, 9717 are in Karnataka.“We worked with a randomly drawn subset of a quarter of these households and then followed up with each of them (and their household members) to collect swabs and blood samples. This strategy has two major advantages: First, because we have data from CPHS survey in previous rounds on exactly who is in these households, we are able to adjust the proportion of tests positive to reflect the composition of households... Second, it gives us a sampling frame that is very well defined and we know exactly how to extrapolate findings from this CPHS population to arrive at a statewide number,” he added.The researchers add that their findings have several policy implications. “With nearly half the population in the state being infected with Covid as of August 2020, stringent suppression policies across the general population will impose significant costs on those who are already infected,” they said in their paper. To address this, Mohanan, in a separate conversation over email with HT, said states could “consider strategies that are more targeted, to focus on areas where there is a growing infection and limit opportunities for transmission there rather than general statewide suppression measures”. The researchers also use their sampling strategy of reaching out to households to pitch for pooled testing. Mohanan added that the team is working on future studies that focus on understanding how antibodies and immunity might progress over time. “This will be important to understand any risks of re-infection and also to help inform policies on vaccination, which will be a key challenge in coming months,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-31-mn-exposed-to-covid-in-k-taka-sero-study-projections/story-VqCA0prkzY2mUFSJIHfT8J.html
10-11-2020||India||China ready to talk on all flashpoints: Officials||There are signs of a forward movement in military talks between India and China, with the neighbour agreeing to discuss disengagement at all flashpoints in eastern Ladakh and not insisting on talking about only the southern bank of Pangong Tso where the Indian Army holds dominating heights, officials familiar with developments said on Monday.The Indian side is considering a Chinese proposal for disengagement at all friction points, including some that the neighbour had been unwilling to discuss till now, and the next meeting of the military commanders is expected to be held by Friday, the officials said, asking not to be named.The Chinese side shared the proposal at the eighth round of talks between senior commanders from the Indian Army and the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in Chushul on November 6, said one of the officials cited above. India has been demanding that the dialogue should focus on all flashpoints along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) and not be confined to a specific sector.The next round of talks between corps commander-ranked officers from the two armies could take place as early as this week. There was currently no proposal for a meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs, which forms the diplomatic leg of the ongoing discussions on disengagement and de-escalation, the official said.“Joint secretary (East Asia) Naveen Srivastava of the external affairs ministry, who co-chairs the WMCC, has been part of the most recent meetings of the military commanders and there is no real need for separate meetings of the WMCC,” he said.There is also a perception on the Indian side that the Chinese military is grappling with the difficulties of mobilising and deploying tens of thousands of troops along the LAC during the harsh winter – something that it hasn’t done in the past, a second official said.In a joint statement issued after the November 6 talks, the two sides said they would ensure their frontline soldiers “exercise restraint and avoid misunderstanding and miscalculation” along the LAC. The statement also said both sides agreed to maintain dialogue and communication through military and diplomatic channels, take forward the November 6 discussions and push for the settlement of “other outstanding issues.”Until now, China had been insisting that India withdraw its soldiers from strategic heights on the southern bank of Pangong Tso to reduce friction along the LAC, while the India side was firmly pushing for comprehensive disengagement at all flashpoints and restoration of status quo ante of early April during the military talks. “With China agreeing to discuss all flashpoints, we hope future talks lead to some breakthrough. Earlier, they were only focussed on the southern bank of the lake,” said a third official.The PLA’s aggressive forward deployments in the eastern Ladakh theatre have hindered the Indian Army’s patrolling patterns in Depsang, Finger Area on the northern bank of Pangong Tso, Gogra and Kongka La.The scope of the military talks changed after the Indian Army occupied a series of key heights to prevent the PLA from grabbing chunks of Indian territory on the southern bank of Pangong Tso in a stealthy midnight move on August 29.Former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd) said: “If the PLA is willing to discuss disengagement at all friction points, it is at least a sign of some moderation in their stand. However, keeping in view the positions that both sides have taken in the military and diplomatic level talks held so far, we should not expect any quick breakthroughs.”The Indian Army now controls ridgeline positions on the lake’s southern bank that allow it to completely dominate the sector and keep an eye on Chinese military activity, with the positions scattered across Rezang La, Reqin pass, Gurung Hill and Magar heights.The Indian Army has also taken control of key heights overlooking the PLA’s deployments on the Finger 4 ridgeline on the northern bank of Pangong Tso where rival soldiers are deployed barely a few hundred metres from each other.Last week, Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat said India will not accept shifting of the LAC in eastern Ladakh even as he did not rule out the possibility of the situation escalating into a larger conflict in the sensitive theatre.In September, defence minister Rajnath Singh told lawmakers in Parliament that no force in the world can stop the Indian Army from patrolling the country’s borders in the Ladakh sector, signalling a strong resolve to regain access to several areas that are now difficult to reach due to actions by the Chinese army along the LAC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-ready-to-talk-on-all-flashpoints-officials/story-PdLGcSaYDKsskl2dBZU6JO.html
10-11-2020||India||LSR college student dreamt of becoming an IAS officer||The 19-year old undergraduate student of Delhi’s Lady Shri Ram College for Women, who died by suicide at her residence in Shadnagar of Telangana’s Ranga Reddy district on the night of November 2, was a brave girl who was determined to fight against all odds to chase her dream of becoming an IAS officer, said her parents. Her mother Sumathi Reddy, who tailors clothes for a living, told reporters that her daughter, who was pursuing second year of BSc (Honours) in Mathematics in LSR College, was compelled to take the extreme step because of the coronavirus pandemic that ruined her career and the family. “My daughter was dreaming of becoming an IAS officer. It was precisely for this reason that she had chosen to go to Delhi to study in a prestigious institution, so that she could chase her dreams. We had high hopes from her and did our best to support her financially, though it was beyond our capacity,” Sumathi said. The coronavirus pandemic shattered all their plans. Sumathi’s husband Srinivas Reddy, a bike mechanic, sacrificed everything for his elder daughter, right from mortgaging his home, pledging gold ornaments and even discontinuing the education of his 16-year old second daughter. “She had come back from her college due to lockdown in March and since then, she had been staying at home. When online classes started, she was in dire need of a laptop, but we couldn’t afford it,” Sumathi said. She said her daughter had been in a state of depression ever since she received a message from the college authorities asking her to vacate the hostel room by October end, which was later extended till November 10. “She replied to the college authorities that she would vacate the room by November 7, but she was worried about the expenses she would incur if she had to stay in a private accommodation. We had no money even to buy a ticket for her travel, let alone pay advance for her private accommodation,” Sumati said. Having seen her parents struggle for mobilising money, the girl took her own life. In her brief suicide note in Telugu, which was seen by HT, the girl said her education had become a burden for everybody in the family. “I cannot live without my studies. I have been thinking about it for a long time and I felt my death is the only solution to my problem. Nobody is the reason for my death. I should have got INSPIRE scholarship for at least one year,” she said in the letter. Her father Srinivas Reddy said she had earned the seat in LSR through merit. “Right from the beginning, she was a brilliant student and topped the school in Class 10. We tried our best to give her the best education,” she said. Congress president Rahul Gandhi expressed shock over the suicide of the LSR student from Telangana due to poverty. “I extend my profound condolences to the family members of the student who died under unfortunate conditions,” he said in a tweet in Telugu. He blamed it on the BJP government which he alleged had ruined the lives of several families with its measures like demonetisation and lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lsr-college-student-dreamt-of-becoming-an-ias-officer/story-dQ1HvLmbytGXlYxZ4imsOM.html
10-11-2020||India||Cracker ban triggers row||The National Green Tribunal’s (NGT) directive against bursting or selling firecrackers evoked differing political reactions on Monday, with a number of Bharatiya Janata Party-(BJP)-ruled states leaning against a complete ban and Congress and some other Opposition parties treading cautiously and leaving the final decision to local administration.The BJP-ruled states of Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat did not enforce a statewide ban on busting of crackers until print time, even though each government said they will implement the NGT order. The state will comply with the NGT decision, said additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi but added that green crackers -- which are less polluting than the usual brands -- will be sold and promoted. Meerut banned crackers and Agra stopped issuing license to traders. Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan ruled out a ban on crackers. ”MP is a state of happiness. Here, there will be no ban on happiness. Celebrate return of Lord Ram to Ayodhya, burn crackers and celebrate Diwali,” he said on Twitter. Gujarat also didnt clamp a complete ban. Maharashtra, ruled by an alliance of Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party and Congress, didn’t ban crackers but chief minister Uddhav Thackeray urged people not to burn crackers as it could aggravate the Covid pandemic. Only Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) imposed a partial ban. The Congress-led Punjab government didn’t impose a full ban but said it will implement the Supreme Court guidelines to allow fire crackers for two hours on festivals beginning from Diwali to New Year celebrations. The Jharkhand Mukti Morcha and Congress coalition that rules Jharkhand said no final decision was taken on a ban. ”We are studying the AQI (air quality index) of Jharkhand cities. Following the study, we will decide either to go for complete ban of crackers or window period like previous year,” said Jharkhand state pollution control board member secretary Rajiv Lochan Bakshi.The banning of crackers during Diwali is a sensitive issue and many BJP leaders say the celebrations are important for Hindus and cannot be banned.“There are many factors that contribute to air pollution and instead of trying to combat those problems, states like Delhi and Punjab trying to deflect attention by imposing a ban on crackers during Diwali,” said a senior party functionary.Odisha, Rajasthan, Chandigarh, Sikkim, Delhi, West Bengal and Tripura have banned crackers. Two prominent BJP-ruled states, Haryana and Karnataka, walked back a complete ban on crackers after pressure from within the party and Hindu groups. Both states have allowed crackers for a limited period during the festivities.Goa BJP chief Vinay Tendulkar said no such move was necessary in Goa as a ban for one day cannot improve air quality. The Congress has left it to party-ruled states to take a call on the ban.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cracker-ban-triggers-row/story-UCNE1Mu9XqoyN80emROVDL.html
10-11-2020||Editorials||Why the Bihar outcome matters||With the Bihar assembly election results scheduled for Tuesday, established tenets of Indian politics are on test. The battle in Bihar is not just about who will become the chief minister or which formation will win. It is as much about the coronavirus pandemic and how citizens have perceived the response of the State; the political discourse that is resonating with voters; and the future architecture of power not just in the state but beyond. One, it is clear that the lockdown, imposed to curb the spread of Covid-19, had enormous human and economic costs. Bihar was deeply affected because of the high flow of migrants from the state to the rest of the country, who struggled, first, to return home, and, then, to find employment. There was already increasing disillusionment with Nitish Kumar’s third term in office but the pandemic appears to have cemented stronger views on the government. The outcome will reveal the political costs that the pandemic and its management may have levied on state governments (not the Centre, because, all reports indicate that citizens appear to be placing the responsibility on states). Two, the emergence of Tejashwi Yadav, but more importantly, his invocation of “economic justice”, rather than the old formulation of social justice, was a clear attempt to find solidarities across castes and rebuild a wider alliance. Whether this succeeds or whether voters still don’t trust the Opposition — for its governance deficits and political degeneration of the past — will be important lessons for other parties.And, finally, the outcome will determine not just who assumes power in Patna, but shape larger national politics. A win for Mr Yadav will energise the Opposition — it will encourage regional parties and the Congress will find a reason to smile. This will then get reflected in sharper attacks on the central government. It will also have a psychological impact — though not necessarily any political impact — on West Bengal, scheduled to hold polls next year. It will also cement the perception of voters distinguishing central and state polls. A win for Mr Kumar, on the other hand, will reveal that voters still want a hand with a proven record at the helm while a good performance by the Bharatiya Janata Party but not for Mr Kumar will potentially lead to a further churn in the already depleted National Democratic Alliance. The stakes are, indeed, high.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/why-the-bihar-outcome-matters/story-F8zQBM3Gd4nptVAVsvsZWK.html
10-11-2020||Editorials||What a Biden tenure means for climate||The election of Joe Biden as the president of the United States is good news for the environment. In a speech on Saturday, he identified the climate crisis as one of his top priorities, saying Americans must marshal the “forces of science” in the “battle to save our planet.” In the run-up to the elections, Mr Biden, rightly, called, Donald Trump’s position on climate reckless, irresponsible and unacceptable, and outlined his policy plan: Rejoin the Paris Climate Agreement; invest $1.7 trillion to ensure that by 2050 the country will be a 100% clean energy economy with net zero emission, with an enforcement mechanism in place to achieve the goal; invest in clean technologies; stop investments in business that affect the climate and the envir-onment; and bring the world with the US to fast pace climate action. Mr Biden’s commitment to battling the climate crisis will work in favour of India, a country that is vulnerable to the phenomenon. The impact of a changing climate is a barrier to achieving its development outcomes. Yet despite its low per capita emissions, India has made significant commitments in its Intended Nationally Determined Contribution as part of the Paris Agreement. The country is doing as best as it can with the resources (finance and technology) it has along with meeting its growth challenges, but at the same time, it has, rightly held that the developed world must pay for the clean-up (based on the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities). India’s emission share is 6% and the country needs help to grow, but by adopting a cleaner path. The new US administration must not disappoint, as it gears up to rejoin the Paris Agreement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/what-a-biden-tenure-means-for-climate/story-yZVCj6GZmK4E5bCViPYmsL.html
