16-11-2020||News||Covid-19 vaccine: Room for cautious optimism | Analysis||The Covid-19 pandemic has galvanised the world scientific community to fast-track the creation of a vaccine against the Sars-CoV-2 virus. Recent reports about a messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) vaccine, BTN162b2, developed by Pfizer and BioNTech being 90% effective in trial volunteers has brought cheer and hope that a vaccine for one of the deadliest diseases in history is finally within reach. The global stock markets soared in anticipation that the economy will recover at a faster pace. The phase 3 trial of this vaccine requiring two doses, three weeks apart, officially began on July 27. It has already enrolled 43,538 participants, of which at least 42% belong to diverse racial and ethnic backgrounds. An interim analysis of 94 individuals conducted by an independent data-monitoring committee found that the vaccine efficacy rate was above 90%, seven days after the second dose. This means that protection was achieved 28 days after the first dose.The data is still not enough to qualify it for emergency-use authorisation, yet the findings are remarkable, especially since it validates the cutting-edge genetic strategy of utilising mRNA (or DNA) for producing a vaccine. Such technology has not been deployed in any successful vaccine against any infectious disease so far.So what are RNA-based vaccines and is there sufficient data on their safety and efficacy? Traditionally, vaccines are developed by using the whole organism (viruses or bacteria) that is already inactivated with a proven record of safety. However, the proteins produced by this product are sufficiently immunogenic to prime the host immune system to mount an effective immune response against the disease-causing pathogen. The mRNA vaccines, in contrast, utilise a unique process of making the body produce specific viral proteins itself. Here the scientists produce a synthetic version of mRNA and use it as a template to build a protein that is exactly similar to the one produced by the natural virus. The advantage is that such synthetic proteins are solitary and lack the ability to assemble and form a virus. The host immune system is tricked to detect these as natural viral proteins and it starts to mount a robust defensive response. Besides, Pfizer and BioNTech, the other company that is also in an advanced stage of producing a similar vaccine is the United States (US)-based Moderna with its product, mRNA-1273, which the company claims is over 94% effective. Once data becomes available from the latter, it will be interesting to perform a comparative analysis on the safety and efficacy of the two. There are also reports about the equally high efficacy of the Russian vaccine, Sputnik V. Indeed, there could soon be more than one quality product available to control the pandemic. Speaking specifically for Sars-CoV-2, the mRNA vaccines encode a part of the spike protein found on the surface of the coronavirus. The region is called the receptor-binding domain (RBD), which enables the virus to infect cells lining the human lung epithelium. The idea is to generate a highly-potent immune response that can interfere with the key starting point of the virus infection and block its replication. The mRNA vaccines are expected to be more potent because they can activate both the innate (pre-existing and present since birth) and the acquired (develops in response to surrounding pathogens as one ages) component of the immune system, providing an extra layer of protection. Once standardised, they are quicker and easier to produce in large scales than conventional vaccines. Pfizer’s two doses in three weeks is a good strategy because the second dose acts as a booster for generating a strong immune response. However, such cutting-edge technology has serious and logistic challenges for the mass administration of the vaccine. The mRNA vaccine needs to be stored at -70°C or below. They lose potency at normal refrigeration temperatures or even at -20C. This could pose practical difficulties of maintaining ultra-cold chains in several countries, including India. Further questions relate to the technology and associated issues. The concerns include whether the proteins chosen for the vaccine are of the right type, are able to induce a targeted immune response, how long the immunity lasts and, most important, whether there are any long-term adverse reactions to the product. It is understandable that the availability of a Covid-19 vaccine will initially be limited. The challenge will be to select the right one from the several that might become available. Pfizer may not be the best option for mass vaccination, also because it is not a part of the World Health Organization’s COVAX distribution programme. Nations will have to develop strategic prioritisation plans based on demography and chosen priorities. Policymakers will have to decide how much of the population should be vaccinated, particularly the elderly and those at higher risk of hospitalisation or death when infected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-vaccine-room-for-cautious-optimism/story-lyFYekj2IdunuEGttvJv7L.html
16-11-2020||News||For multilateralism, a change in climate, writes Syed Akbaruddin||As the ripples of the United States (US) presidential election results spread, myriad views are being expounded about the implications. All elections have consequences, but the US elections have global consequences. I recall two elections in 2016 that signalled global multilateral change. On October 5, 2016, the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) indicated that Antonio Guterres would be the ninth United Nations Secretary General (UNSG). It was akin to the projection of votes in the US presidential elections. While formal decisions would follow, the die was cast. I recollect the then president of the UNSC for October 2016, ambassador Vitaly Churkin, rushing to the Indian Mission where we were having a lunch for Brazil, Russia, India, China, South Africa (BRICS) ambassadors, and sharing that in the first straw poll under his presidency, he had brought the process to a closure. A month later, in the early hours of November 9, with the projections of results indicating the election of Donald Trump as the President of the US, the terms of the job of the UNSG changed substantially. Whatever may have been candidate Guterres’s aspirations, SG Guterres, from the time he took office in January 2017, had an overarching defensive goal. He has been admirably shepherding multilateralism and the UN through the tumultuous winds of change, which candidate Guterres never planned for. As he looks to the last year of his current term, the suave former Portuguese prime minister may be forgiven for feeling his efforts have not been in vain. On day one of the impending change of guard in the US on January 20, 2021, there are prospects for some good news for the UNSG. President-elect Joe Biden, has, throughout his campaign, said that he will bring the US back into the Paris Agreement and reverse the intention of moving the US out of the World Health Organization. This symbolises that the climate is changing for multilateralism. President-elect Biden has repeatedly asserted that he is committed to targeting carbon neutrality by 2050. As he formalises this commitment, he will add to countries covering 50% of the world’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and half of global CO2 emissions who have made a net-zero commitment. This is a goal that Guterres is assiduously promoting. In 2021, the climate crisis will rise to the top of the multilateral agenda, with active US support. In reality, the US never fully turned away from multilateralism. There is no better example than this year’s Nobel Peace Prize winner, the UN’s World Food Program (WFP). It is an agency whose last five directors general, including the current one, have been US nationals. Until October, the US’s voluntary contribution of $2.7 billion comprised 43% of the entire budget. By contrast, China contributed $4 million. After having established a larger multilateral architecture, the US pursued an a la carte approach — selectively meeting some of its responsibilities but not fulfilling others. Consequently, the many contributions it made to multilateral institutions were overshadowed by the anxiety some of its decisions caused. Changing this strategy lies primarily in the realm of the US President’s executive decisions. Indicating re-engagement with the Human Rights Council, joining the global effort to assist countries to get access to the Covid-19 vaccine through COVAX and restoring funding for the UN Refugee and Works Agency (UNRWA) are some other executive decisions that can be taken swiftly.Multilateralism needs US engagement across the board. Where the US has engaged, it has garnered the enthusiastic support of others. The coordination to ensure the election of Daren Tang of Singapore as director-general of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO), earlier this year, is a case in point. Where the US sought to plough a lonely furrow, the results have not been to its own satisfaction. The jettisoning of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action with Iran is an example. The US’s re-engagement multilaterally is in India’s interests. As India’s interests grow, areas of cooperation that India and the US can work together in will keep expanding. A US which takes sharply distant positions in multilateral organisations tends to open up areas of discord between us. As the climate is set to change for multilateralism, the US will likely take to advocacy to battle the climate crisis. In 2021, the US and the UN will both focus on the subject. The European Union will join in. China will be keen to be seen as a helpful partner. Many small developing island states view it as an existential issue. Although the field is getting crowded, India needs to seize opportunities for leadership here. Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi is viewed globally as a climate champion. His advocacy of renewables and the International Solar Alliance are acknowledged as notable Climate Action initiatives. India’s adoption of renewables is on the fast track, as is its promotion of disaster-resilient infrastructure. We must highlight all this and add to our initiatives, making adjustments if required. Looking ahead, global public goods in environment and health, and not conventional peace and security issues, are likely to be areas of multilateral focus. An early opportunity will be the Climate Ambition Summit to which the United Kingdom, as host, has invited PM Modi to join in December 2020, as a precursor to the Conference of Parties-26 next year. The early bird really will catch the worm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/for-multilateralism-a-change-in-climate/story-ZeENji3KRR2KSzJSoIB6rJ.html
16-11-2020||News||There is a shift in global trade. But 2020 is not 1930 or 2008 | Analytics||There is a general sense, both among policymakers and observers, that trade in the post-Covid-19 world will undergo fundamental shifts. Two factors seem to have led to these conclusions. The first is the nature of trade during the crisis and the second is the dramatic decline in global trade and employment. However, what is most critical is that the global crisis has focused attention on the required changes in the multilateral trade order. The special World Trade Organization (WTO) section on Covid-19 reveals a striking similarity in the response of countries. All of them tightened export restrictions on medical hardware and eliminated all duties on imports and medicines. However, the nature of the pandemic enforced co-operation. Producers of medical hardware (developed countries) needed to co-operate with pharma exporters (for example, developing countries such as India) to control the pandemic. The end result was a remarkable degree of cooperation among both sets of countries. This was never a feature of global restrictions during the trade wars after 1930 and 2008. The nature of the pandemic, which has sharpened the focus on global public goods, sets this period apart from meltdowns of the 1930s and 2008. This is not surprising as the previous two episodes of recession were the consequences of an endogenous failure of expectations after a decade or more of global expansion. The current trade crisis is completely exogenous, driven by government action and the fear of the unknown which has separated buyers from sellers. For example, multilateral agencies estimate that global employment in the Covid-19 period will fall by as much as 25% to 30%. Consequently, global trade will also decline by about 15% in the second quarter of 2020. Closer to home, India’s exports declined by about 60% in the first couple of months of the crisis. Globally, most economists have suggested typical Keynesian pump priming measures. However, the causal factor today is not economic and hence Keynesian demand stimuli will not work and will lead individuals to increase their savings. The real problem is the fear psychosis, which will only disappear once a vaccine is made available and/ or the impact of the pandemic wanes over time. The recovery from the pandemic will manifest itself in a V-shape pattern rather than the U-shape associated with endogenous trade cycles. The most significant change is in the nature of trade since the 1960s and 1970s. By and large, since the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) 1948, countries have largely traded manufactured goods. In addition, these manufactured goods were distinct so that if one country exported food products, it imported computers and cars. This is why GATT was devoted largely to rules regulating merchandise trade. However, in the last four decades, the nature of commodity trade has changed dramatically. For one, the type of commodities now traded fall in the category of so-called Intra Industry Trade (IIT): Here trade is largely in intermediate inputs rather than in final consumption goods. Second, since about 2008, global merchandise trade has reached its peak as a share of global trade (around 60%) and the growing segment is now trade in services. In fact, technological developments in the last two decades and fragmentation of production imply that it may be difficult to separate one from the other. The moot point is that typically protection via nominal tariffs may be outdated as a country is simultaneously importing and exporting commodities in the same industrial category. The second change in the nature of global trade is the nature of actors involved: 60% of trade today is intra-firm and 50% between subsidiaries of the same transnational company. Yet, WTO is a forum in which only countries can participate. Future multilateral and plurilateral agreements will have to address these issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/there-is-a-shift-in-global-trade-but-2020-is-not-1930-or-2008/story-MWPq1FI9xQ7YJh3pR7N0hP.html
16-11-2020||Chandigarh||GMSH 16 clinic for post Covid complications opens today||The Government Multispeciality Hospital in Sector 16 will today open up a dedicated clinic for patients suffering from long-term Covid related complications well after recovery. Dr Amandeep Kang, director of the health and family welfare department, said as many as 10 to 15 patients who had recovered from covid were turning up every day complaining of fatigue, lack of appetite, lack of concentration, breathlessness, persistent cough as well as physiological issues.“We have decided that the patients who have recovered will have a dedicated clinic which will be managed by the doctors of different specialties but will be the part of medicine out patient department (OPD). A dedicated room and separate counter for such patients have been earmarked. It will function like a regular OPD,” Dr Kang said.She added that it will also help the department to keep track of patients who have recovered and the problems they face. “A registry will be maintained to keep a record of the patients and doctors will keep track of patients,” she added.In Chandigarh, as many as 14,584 patients have recovered after contracting Covid. Various research journals have cited post discharge complications in recovered patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gmsh-16-clinic-for-post-covid-complications-opens-today/story-PPpWrDlVAfFyRuGXsgwc9I.html
16-11-2020||Noida||Jewar gang-rape victims’ family leaves home over ‘security threat’||Greater Noida: The family of 2017 Jewar gang-rape victims has left their native home in Jewar allegedly over threats from local suspects. The family members said they have shifted to Palwal in Haryana over security reasons and decided to sell the Jewar house. On the night of May 24/25 in 2017, a group of men had waylaid a car in Sabota village and gang-raped four women and murdered one male member of the family for putting up resistance. On July 23, 2017, four criminals of Bawariya gang were arrested in connection with the sensational murder and gang-rape case. The deceased’s nephew said that on August 3 this year, a group of eight persons from his neighbourhood attacked his family and shot his uncle in the leg. The family alleged the gang-rape case and this attack was linked. However, the police have denied the allegation. In the complaint related to August 3 incident, the victim said that the suspects had a quarrel with a third party in neighbourhood. He went to see what had happened in the neighbourhood when the suspects beat him up without a provocation. “They took out a countrymade gun and fired at my uncle. He received two bullets in his legs and was rushed to a private hospital,” the nephew said. The deceased’s nephew said that the police had arrested some suspects, but others are yet to be arrested. “They have been threatening to kill us. We had complained to the Jewar, police but no action was taken. We have no option but to shift to Palwal for our safety. We also want to sell our Jewar-based ancestral house,” he said. Rajesh Kumar Singh, deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said that the Jewar gang-rape case and the second case has no connection. “In the second case, the police had arrested four persons while others are absconding. The local police provide security to the family and also arrange police vehicle for their appearance in court in the cases. We have found that the family deals in scrap business in Palwal. It appears they have visited Palwal for business,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/jewar-gang-rape-victims-family-leaves-home-over-security-threat/story-tcPMdnP5Q1sVqh7XmSfDYK.html
16-11-2020||Noida||Noida traffic police sensitize people to follow traffic rules on World Day of Remembrance for Road Traffic Victims||Noida:The traffic police on Sunday observed World Day of Remembrance for Road Traffic Victims and sensitized people to follow traffic rules. During the event, the Noida traffic police also associated with 80-year-old former wing commander B S Bakshi to make him traffic volunteer in the city. Ganesh Saha, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), said that the programme was held in the GIP mall. “Road accident is a serious concern as its consequences affect not only the road users but also their family members. In accidents, people get injured and sometimes lose lives. The accidents have serious health and economic consequences. We sensitized the people to follow traffic rules and avoid speeding,” he said. The participants also observed two-minute silence in the remembrance of accident victims who lost their lives.Saha said that Bakshi has been engaged as a traffic volunteer. “This will inspire other people to follow traffic rules,” he said.Bakshi, who also fought for India in the 1965 Indo-Pakistan war, had retired from Indian Air Force in 1992. He has been living in Jalvayu Vihar in Noida Sector 21 for the past 32 years. “I have been concerned over traffic issues in Noida. I always advise people to follow traffic rules, wear helmets and use seat belts. I have associated with Noida police as a traffic volunteer. I, along with the police personnel, will run enforcement drive and issue fines to the violators,” Bakshi told HT. On November 1, Gautam Budh Nagar police had launched the road safety month aimed at raising awareness among the public about the traffic rules. The month-long programme aims to focus on five Es – education, enforcement, engineering, emergency and environment.Rohit Baluja, director, Institute of Road Safety Education, on the launch of programme, said that most road accidents take place due to indiscipline by road users. “People violate traffic rules which lead to accidents. In 2019, a total of 1.54 lakh people had died in road accidents in India as per National Crime Records Bureau. Every year, around 23,000 people die and 28,000 are injured in road accidents in Uttar Pradesh only,” he said. From March 1 to September 15 this year, GB Nagar recorded 162 deaths while 205 people were injured in 317 accidents. Ashutosh Singh, traffic inspector, said that the traffic police have organised various programmes and awareness initiatives in November. “We have associated with an NGO for a free eye check-up camp for drivers of auto rickshaws, e-rickshaws and cabs next week. This is because a good eyesight is important for road users,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-traffic-police-sensitize-people-to-follow-traffic-rules-on-world-day-of-remembrance-for-road-traffic-victims/story-JSBlS5nGQcN4KRFMrIPTjI.html
16-11-2020||Noida||Armed men attack security guard at brick kiln in Greater Noida, flee with two tractors||Greater Noida: Two men allegedly held a 50-year-old security guard of a brick kiln in Dadri at gunpoint and decamped with two tractors parked on the premises. The incident took place on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday, police said. The security guard, Devendra Singh, was sleeping near the brick kiln in Beragpur when the masked robbers attacked, the police said, adding that he was unarmed at the time of incident. Singh has filed a complaint at Dadri police station. “Two armed criminals came at 12:30am and started beating me. They snatched the keys of two tractors parked on the premises, and fled with them,” he said in the complaint. The police have registered a case and launched an investigation into the matter.According to the police, the criminals had tied the guard’s hands and legs and threatened for consequences if he raised an alarm. The suspects then started the tractors and fled on the Eastern Peripheral Expressway. Three hours later, the victim freed himself with the help of a passerby and reported the matter to the police. Rajveer Singh Chauhan, station house officer, Dadri police station, said that the two robbers fled with a Mahindra tractor and one Eicher tractor. “A police team reached the spot after getting information and launched a search, but the suspects managed to escape,” he said. The police scanned the CCTV footage from the expressway and found the two tractors had gone towards Mewat in Haryana. Chauhan said that only the security guard was at the spot at the time of crime as the brick kiln was not in operation for the past two months. The police have admitted the security guard to a private hospital for treatment. The police said that neither the victim nor his employer has cited any personal enmity with anybody.“We have registered a case against unknown criminals under Section 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) of Indian Penal Code. We have launched a search to arrest them and recover the tractors,” Chauhan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/armed-men-attack-security-guard-at-brick-kiln-in-greater-noida-flee-with-two-tractors/story-5iphfq98q0UK0fTKLWiLZO.html
16-11-2020||Noida||Golf course planned along Yamuna Expressway||GREATER NOIDA: The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) is mulling over a proposal to develop a golf course along the 165km Yamuna Expressway that connects Greater Noida with Agra.As per the proposal, the golf course will be developed on 900 acres of land near Tappal-Bajna area along the expressway, said officials.“We have 900 acres of recreational green land along the Yamuna Expressway near Tappal-Bajna area. There is a proposal to develop a golf course so that the allottees can use this facility in future,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer of Yeida.The authority has planned to develop a logistics hub, industrial sector and warehousing centre near Tappal-Bajna area, where Sector 35 is to be developed, said the officials. If all goes as per the plan, the golf course will be first one to be developed by Yeida along the expressway, they said.“It will be the first golf course along the Yamuna Expressway. And it will be an attraction for the corporate houses, who are investing to set up their businesses along the e-way,” said another Yeida official, who was not authorized to speak to media.The Tappal-Bajna area is located near the site of Noida Internaitonal Greenfield Airport project at Jewar.Noida has one golf course built by the Noida authority in Sector 38A. And the Noida authority is on way to develop another golf course in Sector 151A along the 25km Noida-Greater Noida expressway. The Greater Noida authority, however, did not develop any golf course in its jurisdiction. However, a realty firm developed a golf course in Greater Noida just next to Pari Chowk traffic intersection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/golf-course-planned-along-yamuna-expressway/story-rDBcs4e4oiCdNbl619c20H.html
16-11-2020||Noida||Yamuna Expressway area’s draft Master Plan-2041 to be ready by March: Yeida||GREATER NOIDA: The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) on Monday said that it is likely to finalise by March next year the draft Master Plan-2041 that will detail out the future urbanization to be done along the 165km Yamuna Expressway that connects Greater Noida with Agra. At present, the authority is developing the urban centres along the expressway as per the provisions of the Master Plan-2031, said officials. The MP-2041 will have exact details as to how much agricultural land is to be acquired in Bulandshahr, Gautam Budh Nagar, Aligarh, Mathura, Hathras and Agra for future projects. According to the officials, the master plan will define the land uses for residential, industrial, commercial, institutional and greenery development along the expressway area that has started witnessing a rapid industrial growth after Switzerland company Zurich International AG signed an agreement to develop Noida International Greenfield Airport at Jewar. Zurich is likely to start work at the site by mid-June next year. In MP-2041, the authority will define the nature of the uses of land to be sold to investors and property buyers and how the development around the aviation hub will take place, said the officials.“The work on Master Plan-2041 is underway and we are likely to be finalise the blue print by March, 2021. Once it is finalised, we will send it to Uttar Pradesh national capital region cell and the state government for approvals,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer of Yeida. Yeida, in 2013, had prepared the Master Plan 2031 and notified land for urbanisation along the expressway. Master Plan-2041 is important because Yeida has decided to develop some cities in Aligarh, Vrindavan, Mathura and Agra and the advance planning is required before the development begins at the ground, said the officials.The state government, on April 24, 2001, had established Yeida for development in areas between Greater Noida and Agra. The objective was to set up industries to generate employment and develop urban areas in the region.Around 2 lakh hectares from 1,187 villages of six districts -- Gautam Budh Nagar, Bulandshahr, Aligarh, Hathras, Mathura and Agra -- were notified under Yeida. So far, it has acquired at least 25,000 hectares of land for its various schemes. Now, the authority has decided to acquire agricultural land in Chola area, which is part of Bulandshahr district .“We need land for manufacturing units in Bulandshahr’s Chola, where railway connectivity already exists. Many manufacturing units, including electronics product makers, want to buy land from us and start business. They want to buy the land in this region because the region will have access to air and rail connectivity to travel or transport goods,” said the Yeida CEO.As per the rules, the state government will get approvals for the draft MP-2041 from the National Capital Region Planning Board. Once the NCRPB gives green signal, then Yeida will engage in urbanization in line with the provisions approved in the master plan.“The master plan is crucial because it will make sure that the development takes place without damaging the ecology of any region. It is also important for implementation of urban town planning rules,” said Atul Gupta, president at Architects Association Noida Zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/yamuna-expressway-area-s-draft-master-plan-2041-to-be-ready-by-march-yeida/story-BaXPlGTtgJmysIgSi6TGzN.html
16-11-2020||Noida||GB Nagar’s Covid-19 tally crosses 20K mark, last 10K recorded in only 64 days||NOIDA: After the detection of first Covid-19 case on March 8 this year in Gautam Budh Nagar, it took 252 days for the overall tally to cross 20,000-mark on November 14 in the district. According to the state’s Covid-19 bulletin, while the first 10,000 cases were recorded in 188 days, another 10,000 took just 64 days. The official data also shows that after the first 5,000 Covid-19 positive cases were detected in a span of 145 days, it took only 107 more days for the tally to reach 20,000. November has seen a surge in the positive cases, as in the past 15 days GB Nagar added 2,497 fresh cases. On Monday, GB Nagar reported 84 new cases, taking the tally to 20,424 in the district. GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY, however, attributes the increased number of testing behind the rise in positive cases since July. “Started with 597 tests in March, we could reach a total of only 26,170 tests by June 30. But after that, we ramped up our testing rate aggressively, and between July 1 and November 15, we have collected samples of as many as 4,68,243 persons. It’s very much obvious that the number of positive cases detected will be directly proportional to the number of persons tested,” he said. The DM further said that apart from increasing the testing, stress is being laid on proper contact tracing. “In the present situation, early and timely tracking and providing adequate treatment are the main goals before the administration. “Despite having adequate beds for Covid-19 patients, all private and government hospitals have been asked to increase the number of beds in their intensive care units (ICU) and high dependency units,” he said. Suhas also said that the administration’s main focus is on reducing the number of deaths and curing the maximum possible number of infected patients on time. “For that, we have adapted the universally accepted ‘tracking, testing and treating’ method. The health workers have been told to ensure maximum contact tracing – precisely finding out 25 contacts of one infected patient. We are testing nearly 5,000 people every day and treating infected patients as per symptoms. While recovery rate in GB Nagar is still over 90%, the current case fatality rate (CFR) is around 0.36%, which is much better than the state’s overall CFR of 1.43%,” the DM said. District chief medical officer Dr Deepak Ohri said that the health workers have been asked to increase the daily testing to over 7,000 and enhance the contact tracing in the district. “It is really a matter of concern for us that the second, third and fourth 5,000 cases came within 44 days, 30 days and 33 days, respectively. To check this speedy growth of new positive cases in the district, the health officials and workers have been categorically asked to keep strict surveillance in the crowded areas. The district magistrate is himself keeping a tab on daily testing and contact tracing in the district,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gb-nagar-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-20k-mark-last-10k-recorded-in-only-64-days/story-HDaN2zrFLYcBqaGvarYg3H.html
16-11-2020||Noida||FSI survey to assess trees in non-forest areas||Ghaziabad: On directions of the Uttar Pradesh government, the Forest Survey of India (FSI) is conducting a survey in Meerut and Saharanpur divisions to assess trees outside forest areas. The UP forest department said Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar will be included in the survey, which are part of the Meerut division. The department generally takes up tree plantations in protected and reserved forest areas while there is hardly any assessment of tree cover in non-forest areas. The survey is being done with the help of remote sensing.“Through remote sensing, sampling points will be generated. The assessment will be done by about 90 personnel of the forest department. Once the sample is ascertained, it will be extrapolated to give an assessment of the number of trees in non-forest areas which will also include trees on private land,” said Diksha Bhandari, divisional forest officer, Ghaziabad. The remote sensing will assess trees in scattered, linear, dense and in block formation. “The work has already been done in Saharanpur division and now it is going on in Bulandshahr and Gautam Budh Nagar. Besides assessment, the survey will also help assess availability of timber,” said SK Janu, chief conservator of forests (Meerut). The ‘State of Forest - 2019’ report states that Ghaziabad district, with its geographical area of about 1,179 square kilometres (sq km), has forest cover on about 25.22 sq km, which is about 2.14% of its geographical area. The district also suffered a negative growth of forest cover of 0.78% in comparison to the last 2017 assessment by the FSI, the report adds.Gautam Budh Nagar on the other hand has 1.56% of forest cover, about 20 sq km, of its 1,282 sq km of geographical area, as per the 2019 report. In comparison to the 2017 report, the district did not make any addition to its forest cover in 2019. “Despite plantation of lakhs of trees during the annual plantation drive, the forest cover has gone down in Ghaziabad. The survey is a welcome step as it will provide a baseline of tree availability. Once the baseline data is available, it will be helpful in assessing the per capita of tree cover available and ways to increase it further,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/fsi-survey-to-assess-trees-in-non-forest-areas/story-DH9Req1Uy80Ndl69EqSaFM.html
16-11-2020||Noida||Noida: 35 issued fines for bursting firecrackers day after Diwali||Noida: In a move aimed at controlling the pollution situation in the district and to ensure enforcement of the National Green Tribunal’s (NGT) ban on firecrackers in the later part of the month, Noida police commissionerate on Sunday fined 35 people for bursting firecrackers. While 15 fines were issued by the Phase 3 police, 20 were issued by the Surajpur police. “Since before Diwali, police teams across the district have been patrolling the streets, asking people to adhere to the NGT ban Awareness drives were carried out on Diwali as well. We have been constantly making announcements on speaker systems. Many people who were seen flouting norms were also given warnings. However, there were a few who continued with violations. Fifteen such people from different parts of the jurisdiction were then fiend and sent to jail,” said Jitendra Kumar Dikshit, SHO, Phase 3 police station. They were booked for disrupting public order under Section 151 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, he said. Surajpur police had also fined three people on Diwali night for these violations. They were among five in the entire district who were booked. “On Sunday, 20 others were fined. Most of them were from the Surajpur Kasba area and a few from surrounding villages. These were people who ignored our initial warnings and continued to break the law. They were booked under Section 290 (punishment for public nuisance) of the IPC,” said Pradeep Kumar Tripathi, SHO, Surajpur police station. The NGT ban is effective till midnight of November 30 and senior police officials said that the enforcement and awareness drives will continue while action will be taken against violators. Air quality in the district had fallen to the “severe” category on Diwali night, which has now come under the “poor” quality, and will continue to improve further according to the India Meteorological Department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-35-issued-fines-for-bursting-firecrackers-day-after-diwali/story-JK7WFYIIlerGFWxJy9Z5SK.html
16-11-2020||Noida||Banyan tree on Hapur Road has nowhere to go: Forest department gives permission to shift it to NDRF campus, NDRF says it has no space||Environmentalists have vehemently opposed the Ghaziabad forest department giving permission to residents close to Hapur road to translocate a banyan tree, citing hindrance to traffic. The tree would be translocated to the campus of the eighth battalion of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) in Govindpuram, said a department official. The NDRF, however, said it had no not given permission to shift the tree to their campus.In the meantime, many branches of the tree had already been chopped, which the forest department official said was part of the translocation process.The tree is estimated to be between 50-75 years old and is located opposite to Navyug Market in Ghaziabad city. Some people had sought permission to translocate the tree as it obstructed their view, said environmentalists. “The tree had dense and a big canopy and pose no hindrance to traffic. All its main branches have been chopped during late night/early morning of Sunday. Last month when the issue came to light, I had raised a complaint with the authorities and was told that it would not be chopped,” said Ruchin Mehra, a city-based environmentalist. “However, it happened. And when the branches were chopped, there were no forest officials on-site. Now, only the main stem of the tree is left.” The environmentalists have now written to the top officials of the forest department and sought intervention. “We have sought action against the district forest department officials as there are procedural aspects that were overlooked. The tree should have been preserved. It is a big tree and its transplantation or translocation may not be possible. The age of the tree is also to be ascertained,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist. Translocation is a highly complex process and requires machinery in case of a big and old tree. Diksha Bhandari, divisional forest officer (DFO), said that she had given permission for translocation on November 7. “Initially, the local people requested us to fell the tree, but we decided for translocation. The DFO has powers to decide to fell a tree in view of public interest. In this case, the tree posed hindrance to traffic and tilted towards the road. The soil near it base was loose. I have suspended the activity for now and will visit the site,” she said, while confirming that the tree would be translocated to the NDRF campus. “The chopping of branches is part of the translocation exercise and once the new shoots come, it will be shifted. It seems to be about 50-75 years but we are yet to ascertain its age.” NDRF, however, said they had not given any permission for the translocation. “We received a letter from the forest department for translocating the tree but we did not given permission as there are other trees on the campus and infrastructure development is ongoing. We had verbally suggested that if they translocated the tree to a ground opposite to the campus, we will help take care of it,” said PK Tiwary, commandant of the eighth battalion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/banyan-tree-on-hapur-road-has-nowhere-to-go-forest-department-gives-permission-to-shift-it-to-ndrf-campus-ndrf-says-it-has-no-space/story-NK6sid4H3PORUT3vCJyduL.html
16-11-2020||Noida||Noida: 2017 video of man shooting gun lands him in trouble with police||An incident that happened in 2017 has attracted the attention of the Noida Police after a video surfaced on social media.The video showed a man firing four shots from a pistol, apparently during Diwali. Noida Police took cognizance of the matter and investigated it.“The video was traced to Barola village and it was made in 2017. We identified the person who fired the shots. He is a local property dealer who also runs a dairy. He owns both the weapons seen in the video. They are licensed. However, once we contacted the man, we seized both the weapons,” said Sudhir Kumar, station house officer, sector 49 police station. “Firing in the air is against the law. It does not seem that there was any legal action taken when it was shot in 2017. We are investigating the case and due action will be taken.”He said that another video of a weapon being fired had come to their attention. “A second clip of air-firing had reached us. This one seemed to originate from sector 50. We have traced the man seen in the video and this one also seems to be a few years old. A probe in this case is also underway and we will take necessary action,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-2017-video-of-man-shooting-gun-lands-him-in-trouble-with-police/story-DlSa1sRzRArU31G34xgCOK.html
16-11-2020||Chandigarh||Lalru dhaba blast: No action by govt despite complaints earlier, say oil companies||The recent blast in which four men were killed while stealing fuel from an oil tanker at Sirsini village, Lalru, on the Ambala-Chandigarh highway was a tragedy waiting to happen, say representatives of oil companies, alleging that their complaints to the state government earlier about thefts had fallen on deaf ears. “We have taken up the matter with the state government and sometimes the dhabas have been raided and the thefts stop. But then it starts all over again soon,” says Sujoy Choudhury, executive director, Indian Oil Corporation Limited.“ Our company can only take up the matter with the state government, but action has to be taken by the state government,” he adds.Many companies are relying on technology. “A vehicle tracking system is installed in our tankers and we check where the vehicle has been diverted. We have also introduced electromagnetic locks for the tankers which open at the final destination with a one time password (OTP),” says a senior officer of Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited on condition of anonymity.He says oil pilferage is a serious matter and the company will contact the state government again. Shalabh Raj Gupta, divisional manager, Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited, too, says they will take up the matter with the government. Meanwhile, Kuldeep Bawa, subdivisional magistrate probing the blast, has found that the usual practice is to steal about 100 litres of oil from one tanker, which can hold up to 1 lakh litres of liquid. This is then sold at rates cheaper by Rs 5 to Rs 7 than current rates. The stolen fuel is stored in drums of five litres each.Such thefts are causing huge losses to the state exchequer, says Ashwinder Mongia, president, Mohali District Petroleum Dealers Association, while calling for intervention by the finance ministry.Four persons, including Sandeep Kumar, Jaswinder Singh, 35, owner of Rama Punjabi dhaba, and his relatives, Babloo, 20, and Vikram Kumar were killed in the blast last Friday.,||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/lalru-dhaba-blast-no-action-by-govt-despite-complaints-earlier-say-oil-companies/story-tONYtf5d9Rp52WsaRrxKGM.html
16-11-2020||Noida||Snow in hills to reduce temperature further||Noida and neighbouring areas are set to feel a chill as the mercury is set to fall by six degrees over next two days, weather analysts said. According to the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) data, Noida recorded 1mm rain in past 24-hours. While the western disturbance caused the light rain, snowfall in the northern regions helped cool the winds headed to Noida. “The wind direction is currently easterly and south-easterly, which will change to north-westerly by Tuesday evening, and between eight to 10kmph. This will bring in cool wind ave of chilly winds from the northern states where the western disturbance have caused snowfall. Due to this, the mercury in the plains will fall sharply over next two days,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD. According to the IMD, the maximum temperature for Noida on Monday was 25 degrees Celsius, two notches below the season’s average, against 29 degrees Celsius a day earlier. The minimum temperature was recorded at 16 degrees Celsius, two notches above the season’s average, against 14.2 degrees Celsius a day earlier. The humidity oscillated between 81-79 per cent on Monday. “By Wednesday, the minimum temperatures are likely to shrink around ten degrees Celsius. The main reason behind this fall is the icy cold winds from norther states like Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Jammu and Kashmir,” said Srivastava. According to the IMD, another western disturbance – the weather phenomenon that causes rains in the region – is expected around November 18-19, which will further hit the mercury due to snowfall on the northern mountainous states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/snow-in-hills-to-reduce-temperature-further/story-9iaE0ePGhxYQMD4KYboB9N.html
16-11-2020||Noida||Noida breathes cleanest air of month||Noida: Noida and its adjoining areas breathed the cleanest air of the month so far as the air quality improved to the ‘poor’ zone after oscillating between ‘very poor’ and the more hazardous ‘severe’ for the past 15 days. The rain and moderate easterly winds washed away a heavy chunk of pollutants trapped in the city and adjoining areas for several days, bringing down the pollution levels. According to weather analysts, the air quality is likely to improve slightly further on Tuesday but would slip slightly on Wednesday due to a change in wind direction. “The region received good wind speed on Monday. The region received easterly winds of 14 kmph, which led to the dispersal of pollutants. The wind calmed down towards the evening and will change to north-westerly on Tuesday evening. On Tuesday evening, the wind speed will be around 8 to 10 kmph, which may bring smoke from stubble fires, if any, from the neighbouring states, which could lead to a slight drop in the air quality on Wednesday,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, India Meteorological Centre (IMD). According to the central pollution control board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on Monday improved to 243 or ‘poor’ against 441 or ‘severe’ on Sunday. The AQI of Greater Noida was 226 against 417 on Sunday. The AQI above 400 is considered severe, while that between 301 and 400 is considered ‘very poor’ and between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’. The last time ‘poor’ category air quality was recorded in Noida was on November 2 with an AQI of 299. On October 20, Noida’s AQI was 219, the best since November 16. The pollution mass also dropped drastically with the PM2.5 levels in the past 24 hours in Noida dropping to 113.71 microgrammes per cubic meters against 391.71 microgrammes per cubic meters a day earlier. The PM2.5 for Greater Noida also dropped to 105.73 units against 316.47 units on Sunday. According to the System of air quality and weather forecasting and research (SAFAR), the AQI may improve further on Tuesday, but will soon deteriorate further slightly. “Scattered rainfall in Delhi and surrounding regions washed out some of the pollutants. Effective stubble fire counts with sufficient potential estimated from SAFAR-multi-satellite products are significantly reduced and are around 282. However, in reality it could be an underestimate due to the inability of satellites to identify spots under cloudy conditions. A change in boundary layer wind direction is forecasted by tomorrow afternoon but since the fire-related emissions have reduced, significant impact is not expected. AQI is forecasted to marginally deteriorate on 18 and 19 November,” SAFAR said in statement on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-breathes-cleanest-air-of-month/story-BwckVyWxVvKwdrrchoN8aN.html
16-11-2020||City||Fire at hosiery unit in Ludhiana’s New Madhopuri, no casualty||Fire broke out at a hosiery unit in New Madhopuri on Monday afternoon. Panic gripped the area as the unit is situated on a congested street, where several other hosiery units are also located. Though no casualties were reported, goods and machinery worth lakhs are believed to have been destroyed in the blaze. The firefighting operations continued for about two hours. As per information, the fire broke out on the second and third floor of the unit, reportedly due to a short-circuit, and then spread to the other floors. Shopkeepers in the area said there had been frequent power cuts in the area and a short-circuit may have taken place due to fluctuations in power supply. Sub-fire officer (SFO) Atish Rai said, “We received an alert about the fire around 12:50pm following which we rushed five fire tenders to the spot. As the unit is situated near the Sundar Nagar fire station, the fire brigade reached the spot within a few minutes and controlled the blaze.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fire-at-hosiery-unit-in-ludhiana-s-new-madhopuri-no-casualty/story-Lv1sYT4UD1CxKeQ3yyLQON.html
16-11-2020||City||PRTC’s daily receipts cross ₹1 crore for first time post lockdown||Facing over ₹100-crore losses during the lockdown, Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) is on the path to recovery as its daily receipts have crossed ₹1 crore for the first time after easing of travel restrictions.For the past one week, PRTC’s daily income is pegged between ₹1-1.2 crore. Before the lockdown was imposed due to the Covid pandemic, it earned around ₹1.4 crore daily.PRTC managing director Jaskiran Singh said the increase in revenue has come as a great financial relief to the corporation, which is now managing to cope with operational losses incurred in the recent months.“We have restarted buses in a phased manner. Buses are being sanitised daily, and we have managed to convince people that they can board them without any fear of contracting the virus,” said the MD.At present, the corporation is running 90% of its fleet of 1,125 buses.In the first 60 days of the lockdown, the corporation had incurred losses to the tune of ₹51 crore, with daily losses pegged at ₹85 lakh. Even after resuming operations on May 18, PRTC was finding it hard to meet its committed expenditure due to low occupancy. The corporation had also sought ₹90-crore bailout package from the Punjab government to compensate for the losses. “We are yet to receive any response from the state government,” said the MD. Nirmal Singh Dhaliwal, convener of the PRTC trade unions, said it is good sign that the general public has started believing in the corporation’s services, but the state government must help it financially too.“The government already owes PRTC more than ₹200 crore against the free and concessional facilities it is providing, mainly to police personnel and students,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/prtc-s-daily-receipts-cross-1-crore-for-first-time-post-lockdown/story-5sdMqbOy4ulQG4H3B3thuK.html
16-11-2020||City||Jalandhar’s Adampur flyover project hanging fire for 4 years||Hanging fire for four years, the incomplete Adampur flyover continues to cause traffic snarls on the Jalandhar-Hoshiarpur road.The ₹130-crore project kicked off in December 2016, and was supposed to be completed within two years. However, even after nearly four years, only about 20% work has been completed, said Adampur MLA Pawan Kumar Tinu, who also met Jalandhar deputy commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Monday to push for speeding up its construction.With domestic flight operations set to resume from the Adampur airport on November 20, the situation is likely to worsen as the travelers will have to cross this stretch, said Tinu, who also demanded construction of a service lane besides deployment of traffic cops to ease congestion at the junction. Angrez Singh, executive engineer, public works department, Jalandhar, said the main reason for the delay was the revision in the length of the flyover from two kilometers to three kilometers last year.Thori said he held a meeting with officials concerned and asked them to speed up the work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jalandhar-s-adampur-flyover-project-hanging-fire-for-4-years/story-ZyeNNP45wlYjY6os2nf6RI.html
16-11-2020||City||Wedding procession gives fillip to farmers’ agitation in Sangrur||If not for the traditionally attired groom, it would have looked as any other march being taken out by farmers protesting against central agricultural legislations in various parts of Punjab. Holding flags of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) — one of the 30 farm bodies up in arms in the state — Jashanjeet Singh’s wedding procession marched through his village Retgarh, 22 kilometers from Sangrur, before proceeding to his bride’s town on Monday.Harnek Singh, Jashanjeet’s father and head of the union in the village, said that he is making a statement against the Centre’s “anti-farmer policies” while celebrating his son’s wedding.“We will keep fighting against the Modi government, which is trying to give our land to corporate houses,” he said.Some guests were taken by surprise, but appreciated the move, saying the union flags had become a part of their “happiness and sorrows”.Meanwhile, thousands of farmers continue to sit on dharnas outside railway stations and at toll plazas in Sangrur and Barnala districts, as the protest entered its 47th day on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/wedding-procession-gives-fillip-to-farmers-agitation-in-sangrur/story-zVpXiXxWkbhDBGhR4ZkreN.html
16-11-2020||City||Ludhiana: Family booked for setting neighbour’s house ablaze||A family in Ramandeep Colony has been booked for allegedly setting their neighbour’s house on fire on Diwali night.The accused have been identified as Bharat Sharma, his brother Sanju Sharma, mother Harpreet Kaur and father Kamal Sharma.Complainant Harjit Kaur said that on Diwali night, her husband, Baljinder Singh, and nephew, Daljit Singh, were bursting crackers on the street. Irked by this, the accused started abusing them. When they objected to the verbal abuse, the accused attacked Baljinder and Daljit with sticks and baseball bats and fled the spot, leaving them severely injured. Harjit had to rush them to the hospital for treatment. However, when she was at the hospital, she received a call from another neighbour, informing her that a fire had broken out in her house.She rushed home and saw the entire house engulfed in flames. It took the firefighters around 40 minutes to control the blaze.Harjit claimed that her family lost about Rs 2 lakh in cash, besides furniture and jewellery worth Rs 4 lakh in the incident.Based on her a complaint, a case under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint), 436 (mischief by fire or explosive substance with intent to destroy house), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against Bharat Sharma and his family members. Assistant sub-inspector Sulakkhan Singh said a hunt is on for the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-family-booked-for-setting-neighbour-s-house-ablaze/story-9aQjnlYXl7wGVfuImlCBPN.html
16-11-2020||City||SGPC’s centenary celebration a low-key affair||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC)’s 100th foundation day function is set to be a low-key affair, amid the ongoing row over missing holy saroops (copies) of Guru Granth Sahib.The apex gurdwara body was founded on November 15, 1920. The day passed off without any public event to mark the centenary this year. However, a function is planned on November 17, for which an akhand path (recitation of Guru Granth Sahib) started at the Akal Takht on November 15. An SGPC official cited Diwali festivities as the reason for postponing the main function, even as the celebrations had culminated by the night of November 14.Moreover, the main function is set to be a simple affair, after bhog (culmination) ceremony of the akhand path. “After performance of ragis (traditional gurbani singers) and dhadis (ballad singers), all panthic personalities will address the gathering at Manji Sahib Diwan Hall and share their views on 100-year journey of the SGPC,” said spokesperson Kulwinder Singh Ramdas.However, unlike other centennial events in the past, when even the Prime Minister and President were invited, no big personality is expected at the event.“This centenary cannot be compared with past events in terms of enthusiasm and circumstances. If we talk about the reasons behind it, the first is Covid outbreak. Second, the SGPC has been under a cloud for some time. Its credibility is at stake. So, people in general are not showing that much interest in this centenary,” said Tarlochan Singh, former Rajya Sabha MP and chairman of the National Commission of Minorities. However, the pandemic did not deter the SGPC from organising Diwali and birth anniversary of Guru Ramdas on a large scale this month.Sikh leaders and organisations at loggerheads with the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), which controls the SGPC due to its majority in the General House, will stay away from the main function. Even dissenting SGPC members, such as Kiranjot Kaur, expressed uncertainty over their participation.Splinter Akali groups, which are gearing up jointly to contest SGPC general polls against the SAD, have also showed their apathy towards the centenary by not planning any separate event.“The programme to celebrate 100 years of SGPC is as vague as its policies,” said Kaur, who has also been its general secretary.The SGPC is still under fire over alleged misappropriation in its publication department that led to 328 Guru Granth Sahib saroops going missing. Bargari sacrilege and pardoning of Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim by the Akal Takht were other major issues that dented the credibility and image of the SGPC, also known as the Sikh parliament, in recent years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sgpc-s-centenary-celebration-a-low-key-affair/story-NyNzJlMEoUIpN9kbMAFk3M.html
16-11-2020||Chandigarh||Paddy yield hits all-time high in Punjab, but raises concerns||As Punjab is heading towards an all-time high production of paddy this kharif season, experts welcomed the resultant higher income for farmers, but also raised concern over its long-term impact. According to experts, increase in production means efforts for diversification will take a hit, as more farmers will shift back to growing paddy that offers an assured income by way of minimum support price. As per the crop cutting experiments conducted by the state agriculture directorate, there’s an increase of 10.5% in the paddy yield. “It is expected to break the previous record of 2017, when a total of 199.65 lakh tonne paddy was produced (including basmati),” said director agriculture Rajesh Vashisht. Non-basmati varieties production in 2017 was 174.62 lakh tonne. Crop cutting experiments are conducted in all blocks of the state and the trend could be assessed on basis of results of 60% of them. This kharif season, paddy was grown over 27.89 lakh hectare, including basmati over 6.6 lakh hectare.The yield is expected to touch 210-215 lakh tonne, while paddy procurement by state agencies has already crossed 197 lakh tonne. Vashisht said this season, crop delivered best results as all the conditions, such as weather, humidity and rainfall, were most conducive, there was no pest attack, and direct sowing rice (DSR) method was adopted over 5.5 lakh. Also, short-duration varieties were sown, which contributed to a higher yield. “On one side, we are happy as the production has increased. However, more production will lead to a vicious cycle, wherein more farmers will turn towards the paddy crop with assured income in mind and our diversification plan will take a hit,” said Vashisht. Stubble burning cases could riseMoreover, the per-hectare productivity of paddy is also expected to touch an all-time high of 70 quintal. “More productivity means higher stubble volume. When more stubble is burnt, it will emit more smoke,” said an official of the pollution control board. At least 20-25 lakh tonne stubble is produced along with the grain. The number of stubble burning cases in the current season has touched an all-time high of 73,988, and due to this, air quality index remained over 300 (very poor) for many days before the Sunday’s rainfall. ‘Need alternatives for farmers’Dr Sukhpal Singh principal economist, Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, said assured income as well as environment protection are important. “No doubt there is need to save subsoil water and ambient air. For that, we have to ensure an alternative to farmers, so that they can also get good remuneration. I think cotton and maize are good alternatives, if assured procurement could be ensured,” said Singh. PAU vice-chancellor BS Dhillon said the challenge is to conserve water and sow short-duration varieties. “I am happy for the farmers, as increase in yield means higher income,” he said. Storage to pose problemAccording to sources in the food and civil supplies department, the storage of rice after shelling of the current paddy crop will pose a logistical problem. Out of 205 lakh tone expected to be procured this season, 135 lakh tonne rice would come for storage. Already 55 lakh tonne rice from the previous season besides 136 lakh tonne wheat is stored in state godowns. “More production is certainly a concern, if we look at the logistics, as the storage space is restricted,” said a food department official, who did not wish to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/paddy-yield-hits-all-time-high-in-punjab-but-raises-concerns/story-xeCxm7ZbJSnwxcsTsiKSVM.html
16-11-2020||Chandigarh||Monday was Chandigarh’s wettest Nov day in 11 years||With 15.1 mm of rain recorded in the city, Monday was the wettest November day in the city since 2009, shows data available with the India Meteorological Department (IMD), even as more rain was expected in a few days. The air quality index (AQI) to measure pollution too improved to 31, in the “good” categoryWhile clear skies are expected on Tuesday, another western disturbance (WD) is likely to hit the region from Wednesday.Monday’s rainfall was an unusual occurrence as November is one of the driest months of the year with normal rainfall of 9.4 mm usually recorded in the city.Interestingly, just one day’s precipitation made November as a whole the second wettest since 2009, after 20.9 mm of rain was recorded throughout the month in 2019.According to Surender Paul, director of IMD Chandigarh, rain at the beginning of this week intensified as western disturbances active in the region, though feeble, coupled with low level easterly winds laden with moisture. “The system also drew winds from the north east monsoon system to intensify,” he added.On another WD likely to hit the region from Wednesday, Paul said “it’s unlikely to combine with other wind systems so chances of rain and intensity will be significantly lower than the showers received on Monday.” Though the cloud cover and pressure pushed up minimum temperature from 12.6 °C on Sunday to 14.4 °C on Monday, 3 °C above normal, a 2°C to 4 °C drop was expected due to snowfall in Himachal Pradesh, with a good chance of lows below 10 °C soon.The maximum temperature dropped from 26.4 °C on Sunday to 24 °C on Monday, 4 °C below normal, the lowest of the season. AQI drops to 64 Monday’s rain also cleared the AQI, with monitoring stations recording levels at 31 at 10 pm, which is bracketed as good, something that usually happens in the monsoon. Debendra Dalai, member secretary of the Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee, said the AQI would increase as soon as temperatures fell. “However, the air quality in the city this year had been far better than previous years due to the cooperation of the people on Diwali,” he added||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/monday-was-chandigarh-s-wettest-nov-day-in-11-years/story-BoPTWaZKPT7LYNLVLNAlfP.html
16-11-2020||City||Ludhiana: ASI suspended, three cops transferred for custodial torture||Two days after lawyer brothers, Sidharth Chandi and Mohit Chandi, were allegedly beaten up in custody, police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal suspended assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Sham Singh, after a meeting with a delegation of advocates.The police chief also transferred Haibowal station house officer (SHO) Jaskanwal Singh, ASI Didar Singh and constable Hemant to the police lines with immediate effect, and constituted a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to look into the matter. Another delegation of lawyers, along with the two advocate brothers, went to meet the police commissioner in the evening, however, he was not available. Following this, the advocates staged a protest outside the commissioner’s office for about 45 minutes. Later, joint commissioner of police and SIT head Bhagirath Singh Meena met the advocates, who handed over a written complaint to him. District bar association general secretary Gagandeep Singh Saini said the SIT head had assured an FIR against errant cops and said that the footage of closed-circuit television cameras, installed at the police station, would be procured.In the written complaint, advocate Sidharth Chandi named 10 cops, including inspector Jaskanwal Singh Sekhon, ASI Sham Singh, ASI Bhinderpal, constables Hemant, Inderjit and Gagandeep Singh, Sarabha Nagar SHO sub-inspector Madhu Bala, ASI Malkit Singh and ASI Didar Singh.The advocate further alleged that when the cops were thrashing them, the SHO was heard saying that they should not have dared to go against the liquor sellers in the area as they “run the government”. The SHO allegedly also threatened to implicate the brothers in a rape case and brandished a gun at them.The complainant also alleged that when the cops were beating them, SHO Madhu Bala had visited the police station. When Sidharth requested her for help, the woman sub-inspector allegedly abused him and asked the police personnel to thrash them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-asi-suspended-three-cops-transferred-for-custodial-torture/story-j5AWAIvE09e9R78CrkngFM.html
16-11-2020||City||Seven more succumb to Covid-19 in Ludhiana||Two days after Diwali, Ludhiana witnessed a sudden spurt in Covid deaths, sending health department officials in a tizzy. As per the officials, seven people have succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours. It is after 15 days that the district has witnessed so many Covid deaths in a span a day. On November 1, eight people had lost their battle to the contagion, the highest single-day casualties reported in this month so far.With the fresh deaths, the district’s toll for the month of November has gone up to 48.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga, however, said that it is too early to say if the second wave has begun as there was not much increase in cases. “The positivity rate is stable but we will look into the reason behind the casualties,” he said. The dead include a 64-year-old male from Jamalpur Awana, a 75-year- old male from Jagraon, a 53-year-old female from Kot Mangal, a 49-year-old female from Umedpur Sahnewal, a 48- year-old female from Model Gram Extension, a 70-year-old female from Chhawani Mohalla, a 55-year-old male from Azad Nagar. 84 test positiveAs many as 84 persons tested positive for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative count of cases to 21, 488. As many as 19, 865 persons have recovered so far. Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said the district currently has 753 active cases and added that efforts are on to prevent fresh infections. He added that in all, 97 patients tested positive in the last 24 hours. Of these 84 belong to Ludhiana while 13 are from other states and districts. He further said that till date, a total of 4, 19, 284 samples have been taken, out of which reports of 4, 17, 886 samples have been received. As many as 3, 93, 409 test reports came back negative while 1,398 reports are still pending. He said that now, the total number of patients related to Ludhiana is 21, 488, while 2, 989 patients are related to other districts/states.Ludhiana has so far lost 867 patients to the contagion. The deputy commissioner further informed that till date, 48, 509 persons have been kept under home quarantine in the district and at present, the number of such persons is 1, 372. On Monday, 114 persons were sent into home quarantine. Sharma said that whenever the district administration or health department finds out about any positive or suspected Covid patient, their samples are immediately sent for testing. A month-by-month account of Ludhiana’s tollIn March, when the pandemic first broke out, Ludhiana recorded one death. The next month, i.e April, saw three more deaths followed by five fatalities in May. As the state borders reopened and the curfew restrictions reduced, the fatalities shot up to 12 in June. The situation worsened in July with 67 deaths, turning even more deadly in August when 323 deaths were recorded. The following month, September, remained equally bad with 330 deaths. In October, the fatalities began to dip and 97 deaths were reported. It is to be seen what November holds for the district, as it has already recorded 44 deaths in the first 16 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/seven-more-succumb-to-covid-19-in-ludhiana/story-x0cjkZPO5kikHqLJYWsGPK.html
16-11-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab govt will take up matter of awarding national martyr status to Kartar Singh Sarabha: Sarkaria||Paying tribute to martyr Kartar Singh Sarabha during the state-level event organized on his martyrdom day at his ancestral village - Sarabha on Monday, state water resources, mining and geology, housing and urban development minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria announced that the state government will take up the matter of awarding the status of “national martyr” to Sarabha with the union government. Addressing the gathering, Sarkaria also announced a grant of Rs 5 lakh out of his discretionary funds for the sports club of the village. Sarkaria said, “The state government is committed to promoting the ideas of our great martyrs so that today’s society takes a cue from it. The state government has already decided to develop and restore all places related to the martyrs. During the Independence Day celebrations at Ludhiana on August 15, 2018, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had also announced a grant of Rs 1.25 crore for the development of village Sarabha.” While hailing the contribution of Kartar Singh Sarabha in the freedom struggle, Sarkaria said that it was only due to the efforts of our great martyrs that we are now breathing in free air. Capt Sandeep Singh Sandhu, political secretary to the CM, said, “All of us should learn from the life of the martyrs of our freedom struggle. Several freedom fighters attained martyrdom for the independence of our country and Kartar Singh Sarabha was the youngest of them all.” Earlier, Sarkaria and Sandhu paid floral tributes at the statue of Sarabha and also visited his ancestral home. They even attended the ongoing sports festival in the village and distributed prizes to winners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-govt-will-take-up-matter-of-awarding-national-martyr-status-to-kartar-singh-sarabha-sarkaria/story-3pLIpbxtOojp5mIDZxK9CP.html
16-11-2020||Chandigarh||3 held for bursting crackers in Chandigarh||Even as 11 persons were arrested and bailed out on Diwali for violating the ban imposed by the Chandigarh administration on bursting crackers, three other persons from Sector 38 were booked for the offence on Monday.A case was registered under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 39 police station after a woman resident of sector 38 dialled the police on Sunday to complain that her neighbours Rakesh Mehta, Arun Mehta and one unidentified person were bursting crackers.The trio were arrested and later bailed out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/3-held-for-bursting-crackers-in-chandigarh/story-FyhMHYiZTMX2rMRaoIDFgI.html
16-11-2020||Gurugram||Woman gets extortion call seeking Rs 10 lakh for lost phone with sensitive data||Less than two months after a 45-year-old woman lost her mobile phone in a mall in Sector 51, she received a call from an unidentified man demanding ₹10 lakh for not misusing the content of her phone. The police said the woman had lodged a complaint on October 2 at Sector 50 police station but no progress was made in the matter, said the police. According to the police, the woman, a resident of Sector 57, lodged a complaint again on Saturday, alleging that she received a call from unidentified person asking her for money. She alleged that the man was asking her to pay ₹10 lakh, failing which he would publish her personal pictures, videos and other content on social media platforms. KK Rao, commissioner of police, said that they registered a case under sections 384 (extortion) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the India Penal Code(IPC) at Sector 50 police station. “The cyber crime team is investigating the case and the mobile number from which the call was received has been put on surveillance. The call details are being scanned to identify the suspect,” he said. The police said the suspect had tried to negotiate money with the victim, who, in turn, reported the incident to the police after discussing it with her husband. Rao said the victim had lost her mobile on September 27 in a mall and registered a complaint with the police regarding the matter. “The victim was shocked to receive the extortion call as there were personal pictures and other stuff stored in the mobile. Initially, she dismissed the call, thinking it was a prank but when the blackmailer started negotiating money, she discussed the matter with her family members and approached us,” he said. Rao said they’re trying to find the culprit and have formed teams to be sent to the place from where the phone was stolen. The police said a similar incident was reported in June 2017 when a Cyber Hub employee had received an extortion call demanding ₹50 lakh after he lost his mobile.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/woman-gets-extortion-call-seeking-rs-10-lakh-for-lost-phone-with-sensitive-data/story-nlqMtIU5qoSEtLKtrX3WKJ.html
16-11-2020||Gurugram||2 pedestrians dead after being hit by speeding car||Two pedestrians, who were on their way to work, were mowed down by a speeding car in Sector 66 on Sunday and died, the police said.The incident took place around 4.30pm near Ramgarh crossing on Golf Course Extension Road, when the two men were on their way to work at an under-construction site, as per the report made to the police control room by a passerby. The deceased were identified as Manjeet Kumar (21) and Sunil Kumar (23), both of Gopalganj in Bihar. The police said that the speeding white Hyundai i20 was coming from Vatika City crossing towards Sector 56, when the incident took place. “It seems that the driver lost control over the wheels and the car hit both of them, after which the driver left the vehicle at the spot and fled. A police team rushed them to a nearby hospital where both died while undergoing treatment for their injuries,” said Aman Yadav, assistant commissioner of police (Sadar). The bodies were handed over to the family members after an autopsy and the vehicle has been seized, said the police. “We had registered the case on Sunday night after we received the complaint from a relative of deceased. Efforts are on to trace the driver,” said Yadav. A case under sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering the life of personal safety of others), 304 A (death by negligence) and 337 of the Indian Penal Code was filed at Sector 65 police station, said police. Rajan Kumar, a cousin of one of the deceased, said that they both worked as plumbers at an under-construction site of a private developer and lived together in Sector 66. “They were working in Gurugram for the last four years and had returned from home after the lockdown was lifted. They were saving money for the construction of their house in Bihar,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/2-pedestrians-dead-after-being-hit-by-speeding-car/story-X31LdEk7b5arQjVzYHSXFJ.html
16-11-2020||Gurugram||Goons attack family in tiff over parking a car||An argument over parking a car at a public place in Bhamrauli village near Sector 10A turned ugly on Sunday night, with 30 persons breaking into the house of a former sarpanch and attacking the family, leaving five injured.The police said that a gang led by Akash Yadav alias Ashu, a repeat offender involved in more than 50 cases of murder, attempt to murder, assault, and extortion, was behind the attack. Over the past decade, Yadav has been booked in many cases, most notably for shooting a classmate in a private school in 2007 and for allegedly murdering an acquaintance at the Sector 21 market in 2015. The police said that Yadav, a notorious gangster, runs an illegal water business in developing sectors. He had also spent three years in a juvenile observation home when he was a minor. Now 26, Yadav is out on bail and heads a gang, said police. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that the incident took place around 9pm when a villager, identified as Joginder Yadav, parked his SUV at the village entrance, near Yadav’s house. He was waiting for his cousins, when a group of men asked him to remove the car. “Joginder refused, saying that it was public property, following which the group of men allegedly started hitting him and his relatives,” he said. The villagers immediately intervened and sent both the groups to their respective houses, but within a few minutes, Yadav, along with a few armed men, broke into Joginder’s house and started assaulting the family with sticks and rods. The police said that both the parties abused each other and the situation went out of control as Yadav shot around 30 rounds. The incident was recorded by a local on his mobile and was also picked up by four CCTV cameras in the vicinity. “Yadav was holding a pistol and he, along with another man, his brother, father and mother, shot around 30 rounds out of which three hit two of our family. When we raised the alarm, they fled the spot,” said Neeraj Yadav, a victim. Manoj Yadav (21) suffered a bullet injury, while Shamsher Singh, the former sarpanch, and his family members Sanesh Yadav, Parveen Yadav, and Sumit suffered head injuries and are admitted to a private hospital. Their condition is stable, the police said. Yadav and his family members fled the village in three SUVs following the incident, the police said. A case under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object), 323 (assault), 452 (house trespass) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and sections of the Arms Act was registered against four family members and unidentified men at the Sector 10 police station. Sangwan said the attackers have been identified from CCTV footage at the spot and police teams are on the trail of the suspects. Joginder Yadav, the complainant in the case, said that more than 30 goons are deployed at Yadav’s house, who often trouble villagers. “These men are often seen standing outside the house and balcony. They often pass lewd comments and we have, several times, complained to the father and mother of Yadav, but they do not pay any heed and situation is getting worse day by day. Women and young girls do not even use the stretch,” he said, adding that the family is now fearing for their lives. Many of them had left the village on Sunday night and returned after the panchayat held a meeting and assured their safety. Yadav lives in a three-storey house, fitted with imported tiles inside and CCTV cameras outside. He has spent over Rs 3 crore on the construction, said villagers. Manoj Yadav, a village resident, said that Yadav’s family backs him as they are dependent on him for money and that his younger brother, Sumit Yadav, is also a part of the gang. “He holds supremacy in the area, people are scared of him and often avoid him. He is always surrounded by goons and roams around openly loaded with arms,” he said. The police recovered empty cartridges from the spot and said country made pistols were used in the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/goons-attack-family-in-tiff-over-parking-a-car/story-H989YVE8DDx7huNv7urjfL.html
16-11-2020||City||DTCP carried out demolition drive in DLF Phase-2||The department of town and country planning(DTCP) on Monday carried out a large-scale demolition drive in DLF Phase 2, in which around 15 dhabas and commercial establishments, which were operating illegally, were razed to the ground. The department also carried out a sealing drive in Suncity, during which two houses and three shops were sealed. DTCP officials said that an enforcement team of the department, along with a large police team comprising around 50 police personnel, started the demolition drive at Dakshin Marg in DLF Phase 2 around 11am. According to DTCP officials, the demolition drive was carried out on the basis of complaints by local residents, who told the authorities that illegal dhabas and shops were being run in residential plots, leading to pollution, frequent traffic jams and entry of outsiders in the area. RS Bhath, district town planner, said that around 15 illegal shops, dhabas and kiosks being run illegally on residential plots were demolished. “A number of illegal kiosks being run in setback area of plots were removed. Some kiosks that were operated illegally in a commercial complex without any permission were also removed. A survey in this regard was conducted last week and it was decided to remove the encroachments,” said Bhath. Apart from the demolition drive in DLF phase 2, the enforcement team also sealed two houses in Suncity colony on Golf Course Road and recommended that a criminal case be registered against owners for not adhering to rules and violating the approved building plan. Bhath said one of the building violated construction rules and in the other building, construction was carried out after obtaining the occupancy certificate (OC).The enforcement team also sealed three shops in Suncity commercial complex for not complying with the directions issued by department with regard to encroachment of the common area. “The shop owners and all other stakeholders will have to ensure that norms are followed. We will not allow violations of building plans and misuse of residential plots for commercial purposes,” said Bhath. The enforcement team included assistant town planner Ashish Sharma and junior engineers, Akash Kumar and Ankur Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dtcp-carried-out-demolition-drive-in-dlf-phase-2/story-BucEi7YztCCnno2J56PHCK.html
16-11-2020||Gurugram||Crackers burst extensively in condos as well as villages, shows data||Areas around Teri Gram, sectors 67, 32, 30, and 44 witnessed the highest surge in pollution levels after Diwali, an analysis of the 24-hour average air quality data obtained from the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram’s air lab shows.The air lab measures 24-hour average AQI data from 3pm to 3pm the following day.Until Saturday afternoon on Diwali, the average air quality index (AQI) of the monitor at Teri Gram was 169 (‘moderate’). However, this deteriorated to 405 (‘severe’) the following day, the worst in the city. Similarly, in Sector 67, the average AQI on Saturday was 159, which jumped to 360 on Sunday.Although the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had last week imposed a blanket ban on firecrackers across the National Capital Region (NCR) till November 30, residents living near the two air quality monitors said that cracker bursting went unchecked.“Despite areas around Teri Gram being lush green due to the Aravallis, there is a cluster of five villages located in close proximity. Throughout Diwali night, firecrackers were continuously burst in these five villages, completely unchecked. When residents woke up on Sunday morning, there was a thick cloud of black smoke all around. Only after heavy winds and a slight drizzle in the afternoon did the situation improve and the air became breathable,” said Vaishali Rana Chandra, an environmentalist who resides in a condominium in Gwal Pahari, next to Teri Gram.Karam Singh, a resident of Gwal Pahari village, said, “Although there was a general awareness among villagers about the NGT order, there was continuous bursting of firecrackers throughout the night. I had to visit family members in nearby villages due to an emergency and the situation was the same there too. There was no presence of police or government official to control the situation.”Aditya Singh, joint secretary of Tulip Violet in Sector 69, said that bursting of firecrackers could be heard at regular intervals from nearby areas from 7 pm-10pm on Saturday. “Bursting of firecrackers could be heard from residential areas and villages nearby, especially during a three-hour period on Diwali evening, where the occurrence took place in regular intervals. Bursting of firecrackers continued even later in the night but these were sporadic. We suspect the bursting of firecrackers could be the main cause for the sudden surge in AQI,” said Singh. To check the directions of NGT, around 1,600 police personnel were deployed to check sales as well as use of firecrackers. In total, 104 people were penalised for these violations while around 350 were let off with a warning on Diwali, as they claimed to be unaware of the NGT order.“Around 40 special teams, including crime branch officials, kept a check on firecracker violations. Leading up to Diwali, the teams also initiated various awareness drives in residential areas to inform people about the NGT order. Overall, we were able to keep a strong vigil on Diwali and will continue to do so, whenever such future directions are received,” said KK Rao, commissioner, Gurugram Police.Rao said that firecrackers were also extensively burst inside townships, gated societies and condominiums, prompting police intervention.Dhruv Bansal, the official spokesperson for Gurgaon Citizens Council, an umbrella body of residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) said, “Bursting of firecrackers was common throughout the city, even in highly urbanised areas, where the awareness of the NGT order was largely prevalent. Instances of bursting of firecrackers were also found in the townships of DLF Phases 1 and 2, which resulted in the local RWA taking up the matter with the residents concerned and cautioning them that a repeat of the violations could lead to a police complaint.” MCG officials said that they will be sharing the pollution data with the departments concerned for future preparedness. “The rationale behind opening the air lab was to monitor varying AQI across the city on highly polluted days, such as Diwali. The data garnered over the two days is extremely important as the same would be shared across various departments in the city to accordingly analyse and create future preparations and combating plans for Diwali next year,” said Chahat Sanghvi, consultant to the MCG commissioner, who is also supervising the MCG’s air lab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/crackers-burst-extensively-in-condos-as-well-as-villages-shows-data/story-XzZcitjnT6ba9zIoQPEZoL.html
16-11-2020||Gurugram||Air quality improves to ‘poor’ as winds push away pollutants||The air quality in the city improved on Monday, with Gurugram recording an air quality index (AQI) of 246 (‘poor’), an improvement from the AQI of 425 (‘severe’) on Sunday, as per the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) daily bulletin. Experts attributed the improvement to high-speed winds and rain on Sunday. On Monday, however, Gurugram was the most polluted city in the National Capital Region (NCR), even as the AQI in neighbouring Delhi, Noida, and Ghaziabad stayed in the same category. Gurugram’s AQI had plunged into the ‘severe’ zone of the CPCB’s AQI on Sunday, a day after Diwali, on account of extensive cracker bursting across the city. The level of ultrafine particulate matter having a diameter of 2.5 microns or less (PM 2.5), the city’s primary pollutant, was 574.35 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m³) on Monday, as per the CPCB’s air quality monitor at Vikas Sadan in Sector 11, almost at 10 times the permissible limit of 60 µg/m³. According to the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, the air quality is likely to remain in the ‘moderate’ category on Tuesday. The air quality is expected to deteriorate marginally and remain in the ‘moderate’ to ‘poor’ category on Wednesday. Sachin Panwar, a city-based independent air quality scientist, said that the AQI is expected to deteriorate later this week due to a fall in temperature. “In the morning hours, we will once again see a peak in the level of pollutants due to thermal inversion as cold winds bring down the temperature. The mixing height will also come down,” said Panwar. On Monday, the city recorded a maximum temperature of 24.5 degrees Celsius, while the minimum temperature was 13.9 degrees Celsius. Both the maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to hover in a similar range on Tuesday. As per the weekly IMD forecast, clear skies will prevail on Tuesday. Navdeep Dahiya, a Rohtak-based meteorologist, said that temperature is expected to drop by several degrees between November 18-20. “The temperature has already started falling post the passage of the western disturbance. North-westerly winds from the snow-clad mountains will further bring down the temperatures in the coming days,” said Dahiya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/air-quality-improves-to-poor-as-winds-push-away-pollutants/story-JM5ifWhnwKIvHhrYjK4alI.html
16-11-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram prepares to conduct 6,000 daily Covid-19 tests||The state health department is now preparing to conduct 6,000 daily tests in Gurugram by the end of the month, said officials privy to the matter. The development comes amid concerns that the district is ‘undertesting’ for Covid-19, even as new infections emerge at a faster rate than ever before.At present, the district is conducting 4,000 daily tests, which, officials and experts both agree, is an insufficient number. “At the current stage, given Gurugram’s increasing positivity rate, we definitely need to conduct more tests. We are preparing to conduct 6,000 daily tests in the district soon, starting with an additional 1,000 or so tests this week,” said Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary (health), Haryana government.In fact, despite a recent increase in testing (from 3,000 to 4,000 samples per day), the district’s test positivity rate (TPR) — or the ratio of positive cases to samples tested — has not dipped. On the contrary, health department data shows that Gurugram’s TPR has been rising by two to three percent every week for at least the past five weeks.For example, Gururgam tested 21,584 samples for Covid-19 between November 1 and November 7. Of these, 15 percent (or 3,251 samples) came back positive for coronavirus infection. The following week saw a slight increase in the number of tests, with the health department testing 23,035 samples for Covid-19 between November 8 and November 14. Of these, 18 percent (or 4,130 samples) came back positive. The positivity rate has been trending upward since at least mid-October, department data shows. Even between October 25 and 31, for example, the district tested 18,936 samples for Covid-19, with a positivity of 12.5 percent. This continuing upward trend elicited concern from experts, who strongly advised that citizens should continue to maintain social distancing. “This trend is the opposite of what one would like to see. If the TPR is rising even with an increase in tests, it means that we are not keeping up with the spread of the virus. A TPR of 18 percent is quite high, and if there is still an upward trend then it is not a good sign,” cautioned Dr Rajesh Kumar, epidemiologist and former head of the department of community medicine, PGIMER, Chandigarh.Kumar also added that winter conditions are likely to get more severe in the coming weeks. “Failing to reign in the spread of Covid-19 now will mean more people will fall sick at the peak of winter. While mortality may not go up the way it did during the summer, thanks to six months of clinical experience with patients, it can still put a lot of strain on the healthcare system. To stay in control of the situation we need to start testing and isolating more people soon,” he added. State health department officials said they are monitoring the situation closely. As stringent lockdown restrictions, including curbs on public mobility, have been lifted, the health department agreed that expanding testing is the most appropriate way to stem the growth of new infections.Addressing concerns of undertesting, Arora said, “There is no dearth of resources. We are pushing up the numbers in response to the situation. The use of rapid antigen kits has slowed, but we are also going to supply Gurugram with more of them, which will be used in market places and crowded economic zones in the next few days.”Arora, as well as authorities at the district level, also said that Gurugram’s testing strategy may be further narrowed as new infections balloon. “Even if the TPR reduces, the actual number of daily new infections will take some time to come down. We were already prioritising tests for the elderly and patients with co-morbidities, but going forward we have to really look out for the most vulnerable people in the most high-risk areas,” said Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme’s district surveillance officer in Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-prepares-to-conduct-6-000-daily-covid-19-tests/story-TH8ksz7Y9lwluETyPvk2PL.html
16-11-2020||City||Potholes turn deadly as Ludhiana MC fails to act; residents seek compensation for injured||With municipal corporation (MC) turning a blind eye towards the issue, the potholed roads have turned into a nightmare for the residents as they are leading to accidents regularly. The apathy of MC had landed a girl in the ICU recently. A girl suffered a head injury after she lost balance while riding a two-wheeler on the Model Town - Jawaddi road on November 9. Raising hue and cry over the issue, the area residents rued that they have been complaining about the pothole situation for around three months but the civic body had failed to take any action. The residents also sought compensation for the injured as it was the responsibility of MC to get the roads repaired.A resident of Model Town area and social activist Jaskirat Singh, who had come to the rescue of the girl, said, “I have been complaining about the pothole situation to the MC officials since August. Even after the girl suffered a serious injury to her head on November 9, the MC officials filled the pothole with sand and rubble rather than repairing it properly.” “The sand went off due to heavy rainfall on Sunday evening and, another accident took place on the same spot-on Monday. A person riding a two-wheeler lost balance and fell. It was fortunate that he did not suffer any serious injury,” he added.“As the officials and the area councillor failed to respond, I took up the issue on social media on Monday, which woke the officials from their deep slumber and, they reached the spot. Even now, the pothole has not been repaired with hot mix material. Sand has been poured on the area by placing interlocking tiles. The MC should give compensation to those suffering injuries due to their apathy,” said Singh.Deep potholes can also be seen on different roads of the city including, Haibowal, Dugri, Civil Lines, Ferozepur road, Model Town extension, Field Ganj, Brown road, Focal Point, and Dhandari.Baljeet Singh, a resident of Dugri, said, “Even if the civic body gets the repair work done, it does not stand for more than a week. The MC should keep a check on the quality of the material and should announce compensation for the injured. The civic body had also repaired the main Dugri road after a lot of accidents took place there and, the shopkeepers staged a protest against the civic body.” Mayor Balkar Sandhu said, “The repair work has been going on in the city for over a month and, major roads have been repaired. The work might have been hit due to the rainfall witnessed in the city on Sunday. I will direct the staff to immediately repair the main roads so that no accident takes place.”Despite attempts made to reach MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal, he was not available for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/potholes-turn-deadly-as-ludhiana-mc-fails-to-act-residents-seek-compensation-for-injured/story-V81yG6Gr4tAZy8mXDI54TN.html
16-11-2020||Chandigarh||Showers bring respite from poor AQI in Ludhiana||Overnight showers coupled with breeze and cloud cover on Monday morning added to the chill in the air and brought respite from the rising pollution levels that were witnessed post-Diwali .There has been 10.8mm rainfall in the district in the last 24 hours, as per the meteorological centre in Chandigarh. While there was no change in the night temperature, the day temperature dipped by six degrees to 21.7°C. The minimum temperature was recorded at 13.6 °C, a drop of two degrees below normal.No loss of life or damage to property due to rain and lightning has been reported so far.The city’s air quality had started deteriorating on Saturday afternoon itself, with an AQI of 291 being recorded at 3pm. By 8pm, it had reached 317 points, going down further to 332 by 10pm and finally settling at 346 at midnight.The condition only worsened on Sunday morning, as the cloud cover and windy conditions, clubbed with an AQI of 377 (as of 9am), left many residents, especially the elderly and children, feeling uneasy.However, there was a significant improvement in air quality on Monday, with an AQI of 162 points being recorded at 10am . By 5pm, it had improved considerably at 92 points.The MET department said the mercury will dip further due to snowfall at higher altitudes.Prabhjyot Kaur Sidhu, HOD of climate change and agricultural meteorology, Punjab Agricultural University, said that with the clearing of the weather, night temperature will drop further.“Due to cloud cover, there was not much difference between day and night temperature. But, as the sky clears in the coming days, there will be a fall in the night temperature,” Sidhu said.She added that except for the crops sown a few days ago, the showers were largely good for farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/showers-bring-respite-from-poor-aqi/story-PZF5K83GK9mnyIJkFgGaLI.html
16-11-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Migrants stranded ahead of Chhath Puja as train services yet to resume in Punjab||Labourers from states like Bihar and Uttar Pradesh who planned to go back to their native places to celebrate Chhath Puja are in a fix as train service in the state have not resumed yet due to ongoing farmers’ protest against the agriculture bills. Labourers’ unions have appealed to railway officials to restart the service so they can return to their homes to celebrate with their families.With three days left for Chhath Puja, there is almost no chance of train services resuming in time. The railways have already cancelled 23 festival special trains in Punjab.Manoj Gupta, a resident of Bihar’s Begusarai, said due to trains not plying in the state, he could not go back to vote. But, he was hopeful that the service would resume as talks between farmers and the government were on, but to no avail.He also appealed to the government and farmers’ unions to resolve the matter at the earliest so that the people do not suffer anymore.Interstate bus service are operational, but labourers are not opting for it due to high cost. Another labourer, Pankaj Yadav, said that a bus ticket to Bihar will cost between Rs 3,000 to 4,000. As he lives in Ludhiana with his wife and three children, he has to shell out at least Rs 15,000 to reach Bihar, while a train ticket costs between Rs 600 to Rs 700 per person.The protest is also causing loss of revenue for railways. Over three lakh labourers from industrial cities return to their native places every year on Chhath Puja.RK Yadav, general secretary of Samajwadi Party, Punjab, said the festival is celebrated every year in Bihar and some parts of Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. Labourers used to go to their native places to perform Pooja every year, but they are forced to stay back in the city this time.According to a spokesperson of the railways, 23 festival special trains have been cancelled due to the ongoing farmers’ protest in Punjab. Also, 18 special trains have been cancelled temporarily . Routes of two trains have also been changed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-migrants-stranded-ahead-of-chhath-puja-as-train-services-yet-to-resume-in-punjab/story-npZaGcbsm8Lp8TLwjuB6NO.html
16-11-2020||Chandigarh||Few students turn up as colleges reopen in Ludhiana||Few students turned up to colleges in the city on Monday as classes resumed for the first time in eight months after the Covid lockdown was imposed in March. The colleges authorities expect better attendance in the coming days.The Punjab government has allowed colleges and universities to reopen from Monday with Covid-19 safety guidelines in place. On an average, colleges in the city had an attendance of 40 to 50 students. According to principals, as it was the first day, few students turned up. Also, the rainfall in the city on Sunday evening and ‘Bhai Dooj’ on Monday were also contributing factors to the low attendance. Teachers took classes in-person and online simultaneously. The colleges have taken all safety precautions as per government guidelines. Thermal screening was conducted at the main gates and hand sanitisers were placed outside classrooms. Due to few students attending, the colleges called off offline classes after half day.Charanjit Singh, a student of SCD Government College, said he was waiting for college to restart as some concepts can be cleared by interacting with teachers in person. He added that he is carrying his own hand sanitiser and wearing a mask as precautionary measures.Dharam Singh Sandhu, principal at SCD Government College, said that the college is prepared for classes to resume and students are following all guidelines. He added that have asked only students of final year to attend and they will call other students as per government guidelines.He added that thermal screening of students is being done at the main gates and physical distancing is also being maintained.Shruti Sharma, a student of Government College for Girls, said that due to the coronavirus outbreak, students have suffered a lot. She added that college students are mature enough to take all precautions, so the colleges can be reopened for everyone.The decision to reopen colleges and universities in Punjab has been taken nearly eight months after the institutes were closed due to the Covid outbreak.Mukti Gill, Principal of Khalsa College for Women, said around five to seven students per class turned up on Monday and they are expecting better attendance in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/few-students-turn-up-as-colleges-resume/story-TxCy8vAUGJnY3twHseJVUI.html
16-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s death toll climbs to 250 with two fatalities, 82 test positive||As many as 82 new Covid-19 cases surfaced in Chandigarh on Monday, even as two people lost the battle to the virus. With this, the case tally has risen to 15,866, while the death toll has reached 250.The deceased were both males, aged 56 and 50 and residents of Ram Darbar and Mauli Jagran, respectively.On the bright side, 116 patients recovered on Monday, increasing the recoveries to 14,584.104 test positive in MohaliIn Mohali, 104 residents were found infected and one person succumbed to the virus, taking the toll to 255. Among the 13,678 cases now, 1,046 patients are still recovering, while 12,377 have been cured. These included 57 patients who recovered on Tuesday.The fresh infections included 86 from Mohali (urban), 11 from Dhakoli, six from Gharuan and one from Kharar. Panchkula reports two deaths after 11 daysPanchkula witnessed two Covid casualties after no deaths for 11 days, pushing the total fatalities to 119.The two deceased – a 27-year-old man from Pinjore and a 69-year-old man from Industrial Area – were both suffering from diabetes. It was on November 5 last when one resident had died due to the virus.Also, 53 new cases were reported. These included Dr Usha Gupta, the director health services of Haryana and in-charge of Covid-19, and her husband, who is an IAS officer. Of the 7,939 cases in the district, 432 are active, while 7,388 patients have been discharged. ‘Next few weeks crucial’Even though the cases have been rising over the two weeks, experts said it was too early to term it a second wave.“In September, when the first peak was reached, almost 450 cases were reported in Chandigarh in a day. But, now the daily number is not more than 120. The next three to four weeks will be crucial,” said Dr Jagat Ram, director, PGIMER, Chandigarh.Mohali’s district nodal officer Dr Harmandeep Kaur Brar said it could not be termed a second surge in Mohali for now, as the cases were still low. “We have to see how the cases surface over the next few weeks,” she added. “During the last three-four days, less sampling was done because of Diwali, so that may be why the number of new positive cases in Panchkula is low. We may see a spike from Tuesday onwards as normal testing resumes,” said Dr Jasjeet Kaur, civil surgeon, Panchkula district. Alerting residents to exercise caution, she said in winter, cases of viral and respiratory tract infections increase, so the second wave will be more severe, leading to higher number of cases and deaths.Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajiv Narwal said they had started screening employees of government offices. “On Monday, 80 employees from the office of the deputy commissioner of police and 28 from the office of director, general health services, Haryana, were tested. Their reports will be out on Tuesday,” he added.Incoming passengers at ISBT to be tested for freeThe UT health department will depute a mobile testing team at the Inter-State Bus Terminal in Sector 17 for voluntary testing of all passengers deboarding there.“Since Covid is spreading fast in Delhi and several other states, health department teams will be deputed for incoming travellers willing to get tested. To help keep the cases in Chandigarh low, travellers are advised to get tested via the mobile team at the bus stand or at GMSH, Sector 16, and thereafter, isolate themselves for 10 days,” said Dr Amandeep Kang, director, health services and family welfare, Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-death-toll-climbs-to-250-with-two-fatalities-82-test-positive/story-jtCpyP9CE4PO6Mq93V9nyO.html
16-11-2020||Patna||Nitish says he’ll miss Sushil Modi, points to BJP for answers||Does the BJP’s decision to appoint Tarkishore Prasad, four time BJP MLA from Katihar, as leader of BJP legislature party in place of Sushil Kumar Modi left the former deputy CM sulking? Modi maintained a stoic silence at the swearing-in ceremony of the new NDA cabinet. He walked into the hall, greeted the newly-elected ministers and quietly sat down. After the swearing-in ceremony, he quietly walked for a high tea and refused to open his mouth before the media. He sat with a group of legislators but did not go to the enclosure where chief minister Nitish Kumar, Union home minister Amit Shah or BJP national president J P Nadda were sitting. After some time, he quietly walked off. The BJP’s high command’s decision to replace him with a new face may have come as a surprise to several party leaders and also to BJP’s alliance partner, the JD(U).“I think that the people of Bihar have given their approval for the continuation of Nitish Kumar and Sushil Kumar Modi,” said state president Bashistha Narain Singh. But, if BJP leaders are to be believed, Sushil Kumar Modi is in for some role at the centre. “Sushil Modi Ji is not at all upset. He is an asset to us. Party will think about him, a new responsibility will be given to him,” said former Maharashtra chief minister and Bihar in-charge Devendra Fadnavis.Party sources said that Modi was one of the few leaders to receive Shah at Patna airport when he came to attend the swearing-in. Also Read: In 2-line tweet, Prashant Kishor throws many punches at ex-boss Nitish KumarEven CM Kumar said that he would be missing Modi as they enjoyed a very good rapport. Modi served as deputy CM for 11 years under Nitish Kumar.“Yes,” said Kumar, on being asked if he will be missing Sushil Modi. “It is the decision of the BJP not to field Sushil Modi as the deputy chief minister. They should be asked about this,” he said after the swearing in.While Modi being overlooked for the post of deputy CM has become the talking point, a group of BJP leaders tried to assuage the hurt sentiment of the leader. Union minister Giriraj Singh put out a tweet for Sushil Kumar Modi and said, “Respected Sushil ji, you are the leader, you had the post of deputy chief minister, you will continue to remain the leader of BJP in the future as well, nobody’s status is determined by the post he holds,” Singh tweeted in Hindi in response to Modi’s tweet on Monday that “No one can take away the post of a party worker.” Also Read: ‘Only Congress can keep nation united’: Gehlot attacks Sibal, takes Congress versus Congress a notch higherSources close to Modi, on conditions of anonymity, said that he himself proposed the name of Tarkishore Prasad and opted out from the race of deputy chief ministership after seeing a lot of “dissension and to ensure that no ugly scene is created in the party following a commendable performance.”A BJP MLA present at the NDA meeting said, “As soon he proposed the name of Tarkishore Prasad, we immediately realised that something is wrong. He thanked everybody as if giving a farewell speech,” said a BJP MLA.Party sources said that there could be many reasons and one of could be that the party wanted to go for a generational shift and secondly, because Modi was the lone BJP leader who had been openly attacking Paswan, dismissing LJP’s existence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/nitish-says-he-ll-miss-sushil-modi-points-to-bjp-for-answers/story-nxtNjupSgDJSVgM6HVbtuI.html
16-11-2020||Lucknow||Murder leads to communal tension in Kanpur area, 5 arrested||Tempers ran high in Wazidpur area of Kanpur’s leather belt of Jajmau on Monday, a day after the murder of a 25-year-old man in a petty fight led to a clash between members of two communities here on Sunday night.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath expressed grief over the loss of life in Kanpur’s Wazidpur and conveyed condolences to the bereaved family. “Chief Minister @myogiadityanath expressed grief over the incident which took place yesterday under Chakeri police station in Kanpur and conveyed condolences to the bereaved families,” the Uttar Pradesh chief minister’s office tweeted, according to the news agency ANI.Protestors put up a road blockade with the body of the victim on Monday, refusing to relent for several hours as they blamed the local police for siding with the accused.Officials had a tough time pacifying the protestors who later agreed and cremated the body at Sidhnath Ghat amid heavy security.The police arrested five people and the National Security Act (NSA) would be invoked, said Raj Kumar Agarwal, superintendent of police, Kanpur-East.More people were being identified and security had been beefed up further, he said.Members of two communities clashed late Sunday night following a petty fight between one Aman and Pintu Nishad in Wazidpur.Aman and his friends allegedly assaulted Pintu over a trivial matter, inflicting serious injuries on him. He was first taken to the nearest hospital and then referred to Lala Lajpat Rai Hospital, where he died.Also Read: 25-year-old killed, several injured in Kanpur clashHis death caused tension and the people from the two communities fought a pitched battle and resorted to heavy brick-batting. Two people were hurt in the violence, according to the police, but the locals said the number of those injured was more than 15.Later, the police arrested Mohd Mohsin, Sarfaraz Alam, Meraj and Anjum. They were charged with murder and violence in the FIR. One more person identified as Lal was also arrested by the Chakeri police. Lal is brother of a criminal Raja Bookie. In other developments, Jajmau police post incharge Anurag Singh and constable Rajveer were removed. Constables with the UP 112 emergency response service would face an inquiry.But locals became enraged after the autopsy was completed and the body was handed over to the family members. They took the body to Wazidpur where they put up a road block, accusing the police of being soft on the accused.They alleged that though prompt information was given, the police did not make proper arrangements and allowed the people to assemble in a surcharged atmosphere. “The situation is now under control,” the SP East added, according to ANI.The news agency PTI reported that police personnel, including the Provincial Armed Constabulary, have been deployed in large numbers to keep a tab on the situation.Senior state cabinet minister Satish Mahana met the family members of the victim and assured them of strict action against troublemakers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/murder-leads-to-communal-tension-in-kanpur-area-4-arrested/story-NKaAWa8M87Bkbt0Fnv2vjO.html
16-11-2020||City||Colleges, varsities in Mohali to remain closed for now||Even as the Punjab government allowed reopening of colleges and universities from Monday, those in Mohali have decided against resuming classes for now. The government had allowed the educational institutions to take a call on their own after securing undertakings from students’ parents regarding adherence to the Covid-19 safety protocols. But, none of the private or government colleges opened on Monday, while stating that it may be another month before they resume normal operations, as a sizeable number of students lived out of the city. Chandigarh University’s chancellor Satnam Singh Sandhu said, “Almost 60% of our students belong to states other than Punjab. While we have yet to get their parents’ undertaking, it is also a cumbersome and expensive process to sanitise the entire premises. Besides, students are also not keen on resuming physical classes. So, we have decided against reopening the university for some more time.” However, PhD scholars were already visiting the campus for research, he added. “Students are comfortable with online classes. For clearing their doubts, they can always visit the campus as and when required. Even in hostels, it is not financially viable to house one student per room,” said Anshu Kataria, president, Punjab Unaided Colleges Association (PUCA) and chairman, Aryans Group of Colleges.Similarly, the media in-charge of Government College, Phase 6, Ghansham Singh Bhullar said, “Neither the students are keen nor their parents have agreed to them attending classes in person. Therefore, we will continue the online classes for now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/colleges-varsities-in-mohali-to-remain-closed-for-now/story-XDoVavNherbxNLCOaV5I6N.html
16-11-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Over 1K new containment zones created in Delhi in last 15 days as cases rise||With the national capital witnessing a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases, there has been a significant rise in the number of containment zones as authorities have created over 1,000 new such zones in the last 15 days, according to Delhi government data.There were 3,359 Covid-19 containment zones in the city on November 1, but the number rose to 4,430 on November 15, with the maximum 740 in southwest Delhi and the lowest 142 in northeast Delhi.Delhi has witnessed a spurt in coronavirus cases since October 28 when the daily rise breached the 5,000-mark for the first time and it crossed the 8,000-mark on Wednesday.On Thursday, 104 deaths, the highest in over five months, were recorded in the city.According to data, there were 4,016 containment zones in the national capital on November 11, followed by 4,141 (November 12), 4,184 (November 13) and 4,288 (November 14).In a containment zone summary as on November 15, the revenue department said that Delhi’s three districts have more than 500 containment zones - southwest (740), south (700), west (568) and southeast (505).Central Delhi has 472 containment zones while there are 421 and 246 such zones in northwest and New Delhi districts, respectively. Earlier in the day, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said that there is no chance of reimposition of lockdown in the city since the third wave of coronavirus has Peaked out in the city.Talking to reporters, he said the virus cannot be contained through lockdown and that people should protect themselves by wearing face masks.On Sunday, the city recorded 3,235 fresh Covid-19 cases as the infection tally in Delhi rose to over 4.85 lakh.Ninety-five more fatalities pushed the death toll to 7,614, authorities said on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-over-1k-new-containment-zones-created-in-delhi-in-last-15-days-as-cases-rise/story-tKIuMwFQfMUGJgswtymbsM.html
16-11-2020||City||Budding hockey player killed in crash with tree in Mohali||A 20-year-old budding hockey player was killed after his motorcycle crashed into a tree near the traffic lights of Sectors 68/78 on Airport Road on Sunday night.The deceased, Prateek Sharma, was a native of Bathinda and lived in a rented accommodation at Sector 86.According to police, he was commuting back home around 11.30pm when he lost control of his motorcycle and rammed into a tree.A seriously injured Prateek was rushed to the civil hospital in Phase 6 by a PCR vehicle, but was declared brought dead.A DDR has been filed in this regard at the Sohana police station. The deceased’s family in Bathinda has been informed and the post-mortem examination will be conducted on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/budding-hockey-player-killed-in-crash-with-tree-in-mohali/story-BaRdG6ErsLwYMqfOMnltBL.html
16-11-2020||City||Two men triple-riding bike without helmets killed in Mohali mishap||Two men were killed and another was injured after the motorcycle that they were triple-riding was hit by a speeding car on Airport Road past Sunday midnight. The deceased were identified as Neeraj, 21, a resident of Dadumajra Colony, Chandigarh, and Krishan Kumar, 22, who was visiting from Kaithal, Haryana. The injured person, Ravinder Pal, 23, is also from Dadumajra Colony. Police said Neeraj and Ravinder worked as DJs at a Chandigarh-based club, while the latter’s cousin, Krishan, had recently arrived in the city to visit him.Around 1.15am on Monday, they were triple-riding a motorcycle without helmets while returning to Chandigarh after having dinner at a restaurant on Airport Road. On the way, a speeding Volkswagen Polo hit the two-wheeler from behind, causing the trio to fall down and suffer severe injuries. “The car driver fled on foot, leaving his vehicle behind. Neeraj died on the spot and Krishan succumbed to his injuries at Fortis Hospital in Mohali. Ravinder suffered a fractured leg and is admitted at Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32, Chandigarh,” said Amardeep Singh, station house officer (SHO), Balongi.“The car was impounded. Its driver will be arrested soon. The autopsy will be conducted on Tuesday,” he added.The unidentified car driver has been booked under Sections 279 (rash driving), 304-A (causing death by negligence), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the Indian Penal Code at the Balongi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-men-triple-riding-bike-without-helmets-killed-in-mohali-mishap/story-1QXr3aGJW5uJ9nvReeGA4H.html
16-11-2020||Chandigarh||First batch of inmates released on bail, parole due to pandemic returns to Chandigarh jail||The first batch of inmates, who were among the 249 prisoners let out on special bail and parole because of the Covid-19 pandemic earlier this year, returned to the Model Jail on Monday.Of the 40 prisoners in the first batch, 38 reported at the jail and all of them tested negative for Covid-19 through Rapid Antigen Tests. They have been shifted into the special barrack set up on the jail premises for 10-day quarantine.The next batch of convicted prisoners will return on November 22, and thereafter, another batch of undertrials on December 12.Earlier in March, a special committee was constituted for decongestion of jails to check the spread of infection. On September 29, the panel’s chairman, Justice Jaswant Singh of Punjab and Haryana high court, had directed the prison authorities to submit a detailed plan for re-admission of prisoners in a staggered manner, while keeping the gravity of offence/punishment in view.After the prison authorities informed that all necessary arrangements had been made, the panel directed the re-admission of inmates from November 16.Adequate seating arrangements have been made for the returning prisoners in compliance with social distancing norms and a team from the UT health department is conducting the Rapid Antigen Tests.The jail’s total sanctioned strength is 1,120 prisoners (1,000 males and 120 females). As of November 5, there were 779 inmates, including 741 men and 38 women.A total of 202 prisoners, including 193 men and nine women, were released on special parole and another 47, including 46 men and one woman, on special interim bail.With the 249 inmates returning to the jail premises, the total number of prisoners will increase to 1,028 (980 men and 48 women), which is well within the sanctioned capacity of the jail and will not result in congestion, the jail authorities said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/first-batch-of-inmates-released-on-bail-parole-due-to-pandemic-returns-to-chandigarh-jail/story-JoqRptOIlPFVIsZ3bAPERL.html
16-11-2020||Chandigarh||Aditya, Harleen make way into quarterfinals of AITA U-16 tourney||After a gap of nearly nine months, the Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association (CLTA) Stadium in Sector 10 witnessed a competitive All-India Tennis Association (AITA) tournament for girls and boys that kicked off on Monday. As many as 56 players (36 boys and 20 girls) from Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh have signed up for the three-day championship series for Under-16 girls and boys.The association had last hosted a tournament in February this year. Top seeds Aditya Chauhan and Harleen Dhanda beat their opponents with ease to enter the quarterfinals. Haryana’s Aditya got the better of Naveen Pruthi Sabyasachi of Chandigarh 8-1, while Haryana girl Harleen beat her state-mate Saanvi Garg 8-2. Other results: Boys’ U-16: Anirudh Sangra (CH) [6] beat Darshan Dilabr Singh (CH) 8-3, Akshat Dhull (CH) beat Umang Singh Cogi (PB) 8-7(4), Rakshit Dhankar (CH) beat Yash Solanky (CH) 8-2, Aarush Sharma (PB) [5] beat Gurbaaz Singh Dhanoa (PB) 8-3, Rishi Dahiya (PB) [4] beat Gurpuneet Singh (PB) 8-3, Arnav Bishnoi (CH) [7] beat Aryan Jolly (HR) 8-1, and Keshav Dangi (CH) beat Lakshya Gupta (CH) [2] 8-4.Girls’ U-16: Riya Kaushik (CH) [6] beat Milli Pandit (CH) 8-6, Vanya Arora (HR) [3] beat Krittika Katoch (CH) 8-1, Rubani Kaur Sidhu (HR) beat Cahterine Bhangu (CH) [7] 8-4, Harnoor Kaur Sidhu (HR) beat Gurmanat Kaur Sandhu (PB) 8-7(4), Shriya Singh (HR) beat Ananya Dogra (CH) [4] 8-5, Sidhak Kaur (PB) beat Simar Atwal (PB) [8] 8-4 and Radhika Vasudeva (CH) [2] beat Agrima Gandhi (CH) 8-1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/aditya-harleen-make-way-into-quarterfinals-of-aita-u-16-tourney/story-9mYnPAFpzu5dnPTMSReeSN.html
16-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai court grants bail to man who tweeted against Thackerays||A magistrate’s court here on Monday granted bail to Nagpur resident Sameet Thakkar in one of the three cases registered against him for allegedly tweeting “objectionable” content against Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and his minister son Aaditya Thackeray.Thakkar was granted a cash bail of Rs 25,000 by the magistrate’s court in Bandra, said his lawyer Abad Ponda.Thakkar had secured bail in a case registered against him at the BKC Cyber Cell police station in Mumbai following his tweet against the Thackerays earlier this year.Two more FIRs were registered against him for the same tweets, one in Nagpur, and another in the VP Road police station, also in Mumbai.Ponda said Thakkar will be released from jail following the bail order since he had already secured a similar relief in the other two cases.Thakkar was arrested by the Mumbai Police in October this year after he failed to appear before the VP Road and BKC police stations to record his statement, despite a Bombay High Court order directing him to do so.Earlier in the day, the Supreme Court declined to entertain a petition filed by Thakkar under Article 32 of the Constitution alleging violation of his fundamental rights and seeking his release from the jail.A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian asked the counsel for Thakkar to approach the Bombay High Court with the plea saying that it can also uphold his fundamental rights.Thakkar’s counsel in the apex court, Mahesh Jethmalani, had prayed that all the three criminal cases registered against his client be consolidated into one.In Nagpur, the FIR was registered against Thakkar following a complaint lodged byShiv Sena worker Nitin Tiwari.The two FIRs in Mumbai were registered on the complaints of lawyer and Shiv Sena functionary Dharmendra Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-court-grants-bail-to-man-who-tweeted-against-thackerays/story-BuFcHadVlVOxqdTWnpvRYK.html
16-11-2020||Kolkata||Bihar battle won, BJP turns focus to Bengal, vows to transform it into Gujarat||With Bihar elections getting over and the festive season coming to an end, the Bharatiya Janata Party is now shifting its entire focus to West Bengal, diving headlong into the poll campaign for the crucial 2021 assembly polls. While on one hand, the BJP has made a series of organisational changes with an eye on the polls over the past few weeks, on the other, party’s top guns are visiting the state one after another to take stock of the battle preparations as the polls are drawing nearer. Leaders of the saffron party’s Bengal unit are also gradually upping the ante against the ruling Trinamool Congress and are promising to intensify the poll campaign further in the coming days with sharper attacks on the ruling party. BJP’s IT cell chief, Amit Malviya, who has been recently appointed as the co-incharge of West Bengal, arrived in the state on Monday. Party leaders saw Malviya’s appointment as a thrust by the BJP’s top leadership on the battle on social media in the run up to the Bengal polls. BL Santosh, BJP’s national general secretary (organization), is also arriving on Tuesday and a series of party meets are scheduled. “For the last two to three elections fought in Bengal, Malviya has managed the social media and IT strategies of the party. He is well aware of the issues in Bengal. His arrival would further strengthen the IT wing of the party’s state unit. Santosh is also arriving to hold some meetings,” said Dilip Ghosh, president of the BJP’s state unit. Earlier in November, Union home minister Amit Shah was on a two-day visit to Bengal to take stock of the party’s organisational preparedness. Shah’s Bengal visit also helped to assuage strained nerves in the party’s state unit. It was only after Shah’s visit that the BJP released the list of its district youth leaders. On Monday, the BJP upped its ante against the TMC as Ghosh, while speaking to the media, said that the BJP aims to transform Bengal into Gujarat. “Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee sometimes says that efforts are to transform Bengal into Gujarat. I would say this is 100% true. We would turn Bengal into Gujarat. Now people from Bengal need to migrate to Gujarat to get jobs. In the coming years, people will not have to go to Gujarat. They will get jobs in Bengal,” said Ghosh. Also Read: Ahead of assembly polls, tasks cut out for BJP’s national team, friction in Kerala, Bengal Leaders of the ruling TMC have criticised the BJP saying the words Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh invoke pictures of police encounters. “The problem with Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh is police encounters. Around 2000 people have been murdered in Gujarat. Several people like Ishrat Jahan have been killed in encounters. So we don’t want Bengal to be turned into Gujarat. Tata’s Nano car manufacturing factory has also closed down in Gujarat,” said Firhad Hakim, state minister and TMC leader. Strong supervision by the BJP’s central leadership is being viewed by state office-bearers as a measure to stop internal rumblings and to iron out differences between leaders who earlier worked for the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and those who joined the BJP in recent years, leaving the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC). Although the BJP won 18 of the state’s 42 Lok Sabha seats in 2019, party leaders said the assembly polls would not be a cakewalk, especially in the 15 south Bengal districts, where most of the assembly segments are located. Under instructions from Shah, the party is now strengthening the organisation right down to the polling booth level in south Bengal districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bihar-battle-won-bjp-turns-focus-to-bengal-vows-to-transform-it-into-gujarat/story-P7qv6pVowpng7LGEHZbV3K.html
16-11-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab universities, colleges reopen to poor attendance||Colleges and universities reopened on Monday across Punjab after an eight-month break following the Covid-19 outbreak, but most reported poor attendance. In Amritsar, however, Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) and most of its affiliated colleges were closed with reopening dates yet to be fixed even though plans are being chalked out to start classes in phases. Buildings were being sanitised and staff tested for Covid-19.According to the Khalsa college principal, Dr Mehal Singh, “the college was reopened for exit classes in the first phase, but just 15% students showed up. Since it was raining today (Monday) and the students were still confused about reopening dates not many of them attended classes. However, it will take nearly eight to 10 days for the situation to normalise,” he added. Students took precautionary measures and wearing of masks was mandatory. “College staff was also tested for Covid-19 last week and the buildings are being sanitised regularly,” Dr Singh added. According to information from Saroop Rani Government College in the city, nearly 15% to 20% students attended classes. In Jalandhar, Doaba College remained open while Saint Soldier, Khalsa and others were closed due to the Bhai Dooj festival. A Lovely Professional University spokesperson said the authorities had decided to resume classes from the next semester. Most private colleges closedIn Faridkot, government colleges reopened in the south Malwa district but most private colleges were closed. Central University of Punjab (CUP) and Maharaja Ranjit Singh Punjab Technical University (MRSPTU), both in Bathinda, did not reopen.Special teams, however, inspected all campuses and reviewed sanitisation and social distancing arrangements in classrooms.The student turnout was poor here too, with just 100 students out of 3,200 attending classes at the Government Brijindra college in Faridkot, and 10% reporting at the Government Rajindra College at Bathinda,Confirming the poor attendance, Dr Raminder Ghai, principal of the Government Brijindra College said, “To maintain social distancing, we have asked the students to come on alternate days,with girls attending classes one day and boys the next.” An MRSPTU official spokesperson said the academic session for the current semester will start from November 18, so the classes will resume from Wednesday. “The university officials on Monday held a meeting to discuss the reopening process,” he added. CUP, which is running online classes, is yet to resume classroom teaching. 50% final year students in classes Poor attendance was reported in Patiala too with about 10% students turning up at Government Mohindra College, even as the administration asked 50% final year students to attend.“We have called final year students and that too on rotation basis. We have taken all precautionary measures to provide a safe environment to them,” said a college spokesperson.About seven teachers had been deputed to ensure social distancing norms were being followed, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-universities-colleges-reopen-to-poor-attendance/story-BwBee9R5C2kxoBladut6VO.html
16-11-2020||City||Former PDP leader Muzaffar Baig will reveal future plans later, DDC polls not an issue: Safeena Baig||Two days after the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) leader Muzaffar Hussain Baig resigned, his wife Safeena Baig, the president of the women’s wing of the party, said he would reveal his future plans at the appropriate time.“I am not authorised to speak on the issue of Baig sahib (Muzaffar Hussain Baig) resigning, but he has spoken to the PDP president Mehbooba Mufti,” she said. Safeena Baig also denied that Muzaffar Baig is contesting the District Development Council polls from Baramulla. “These are rumours spread by some people with vested interests who have lost their minds. We will be registering cases against those people in the Cyber Cell for spreading such rumours.”Also Read: Gupkar alliance wants to continue with corruption in J&K, says RS Prasad, seeks explanation from CongressSafeena Baig also ruled out contesting the DDC seat in Sangrama but said there is pressure from people asking her to contest the polls.“Yes, as a member of the PDP we have groomed the party and constituency from past 16 years. There is a pressure from people of Sangrama. I am not sure whether I will contest but there is lot of pressure from workers and the common people.”Safeena Baig said that Mehbooba Mufti had offered her three seats - Baramulla, Sangrama and Narwav. “I pity those people who think that DDC seat is an issue. I have worked hard for this party for years.”However, PDP leaders who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said that Muzaffar Hussain Baig was not happy that his wife was denied a ticket from the Sangrama block in Baramulla, a seat reserved for women. The seat has been allotted to a National Conference (NC) candidate. Muzaffar Hussain Baig , a former member of Parliament from the Baramulla Lok Sabha seat, has stayed away from active politics since the Centre’s move on August 5, 2019, to nullify Article 370, which accorded special status to the state of J&K, and bifurcate it into two Union territories – J&K with a legislative assembly and Ladakh without one. Sources said that denial of ticket in the DDC polls could have meant a loss of political fortune for Muzaffar Hussain Baig and his wife. On Sunday night, the PDP dissolved the party unit in Sangrama constituency. On Sunday, PDP general secretary Ghulam Nabi Hanjoora termed Muzaffar Hussain Baig’s resignation as self-serving as he reportedly resigned over seat-sharing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/former-pdp-leader-muzaffar-baig-will-reveal-future-plans-later-ddc-polls-not-an-issue-safeena-baig/story-z3FOktkrydiL7vYa3KUJqO.html
16-11-2020||Jaipur||On the run for 7 months, rape accused returns on Diwali to set victim afire||A rape accused, who had been absconding for the last seven months, allegedly poured petrol and set the victim on fire on Diwali in Jaipur. He and three others have been arrested by the police for the crime. Both the victim and the chief accused are hospitalised for treatment of burn injuries received during the incident. The arrested persons are under police remand till November 18. Jaipur Kotwali police station, station house officer, Yeshwant Singh said a complaint has been lodged by the victim, who is married, stating that her neighbour, also a relative, came to her house on Diwali, poured petrol on her and set her alight, using an earthen lamp. Also Read: 18-year-old Rajasthan youth murdered in Mohali’s Nayagaon area, three arrestedEarlier in April, the victim had lodged a complaint alleging the accused had raped her in the year 2018. Since then, the 28-year-old accused was absconding. The police have registered a case under IPC section 307– attempt to murder-- and have arrested two brothers and their father. The victim has suffered 50% burn injuries and the accused suffered 30% injuries, said Singh. The accused had fled from the crime scene after the incident before he was hospitalised, leading to his arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/on-the-run-for-7-months-rape-accused-returns-on-diwali-to-set-victim-afire/story-H1jMK1XHoSl1iOx5ikIgzO.html
16-11-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram gangster attacks family over car parking; two severely injured||Around 30 men attacked a former sarpanch’s family in village Bhamrauli, near Sector 10 A, 11 kilometres from Gurugram on Sunday night over a parking issue. Police said a gang led by Akash Yadav alias Ashu, involved in more than 50 cases of murder, attempt to murder, assault, and extortion, was behind the attack. Yadav had shot a classmate in a private school in Gurugram in 2007 and had killed his friend in 2015 in Sector 21 market. Police said Yadav, a notorious gangster, runs an illegal water business in developing sectors. He was sentenced to three years in a juvenile observation home. Now 26, and the leader of a criminal gang, Yadav is out on bail, said police. Also read | UP suspends senior IPS after SIT report in Vikas Dubey casePreet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that the incident took place around 9pm when a villager identified as Joginder Yadav parked his SUV at the village entrance near Yadav’s house. He was waiting for two of his cousins when a group of men asked him to remove the car. “Joginder refused, saying that it was public property following which, the group of men allegedly started hitting him and his relatives,” he said. The villagers said they intervened and asked everyone to go to their respective houses but within a few minutes, Yadav, along with his armed men, forced entry into Joginder’s house and started assaulting the family with sticks and rods. The incident was recorded by a local on his mobile and was also picked up by two CCTV cameras. “Yadav was holding a pistol and he, along with another man, shot around 30 rounds out of which three hit two of our family. When we raised an alarm , they fled from the spot,” said Neeraj Yadav, a victim. Police said Yadav and his men fled in three SUVs and his family members are also absconding. A case under section 307 (attempt to murder) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Sector 10 police station. Sangwan said they have formed five teams which are conducting raids to arrest the gang members. They have recovered CCTV footage from the spot and all the attackers have been identified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-gangster-attacks-family-over-car-parking-two-severely-injured/story-zHV6gtGKgajAuFToXsmoqJ.html
16-11-2020||Chandigarh||Winter makes presence felt with rain bringing down mercury in Punjab, Haryana||Several places in Punjab and Haryana received rain overnight and Monday morning, leading to a dip in temperature, the meteorological department said. Chandigarh received 15mm of rainfall on Monday, officials said, adding that rain up to 20mm was forecast on Tuesday. Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Pathankot, Jalandhar, Patiala and Ludhiana in Punjab received rain, while Panchkula, Ambala, Sonepat, Gurgaon, Kurukshetra, Karnal, Jind and Hisar got showers in Haryana. Isolated places in Haryana were also lashed by hailstorm. The minimum temperature in the two states dropped by a few notches after the rains. An IMD official in Chandigarh said, “The rain was the result of a feeble western disturbance that had coupled with low level easterly winds active in the region. The system will remain active in the region on Monday but the chances and intensity of rain will be less as compared to Sunday night.” Officials added that winds up to 50km/h blew on Monday morning. The minimum temperature on Monday was 14.4 degrees, higher than 12.6 degrees on Sunday. With cloudy weather to continue, it will stay on the higher side, the official said, adding the maximum temperature is expected to take a fall during the day. The sky remained overcast in south Malwa districts of Bathinda, Faridkot, Muktsar, Mansa, Moga, Fazilka and Ferozepur and light rain is forecast. Some parts of Bathinda, Muktsar, Faridkot and Ferozepur districts witnessed hailstorm on Sunday. Ludhiana got 10.8mm of rainfall showers coupled with breeze, adding to the chill. While there was no change in the night temperature, the day temperature fell by two degrees to settle at 26.2 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature was 11.2 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/winter-makes-presence-felt-with-rain-bringing-down-mercury-in-punjab-haryana/story-b9srVemcSoCFFLO1FP2JnL.html
16-11-2020||Gurugram||75% ICU beds in Gurugram now reserved for Covid-19 cases||At least 75% of the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds in Gurugram hospitals have been reserved for critical coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients, according to an order issued by the district administration on Monday. Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner (DC), Gurugram, also issued directives to reserve 50% of the general beds in at least 42 private hospitals for moderately ill Covid-19 patients.So far, 35% of beds in hospitals were reserved for patients, who had contracted SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19. The hospital beds include both in the general category and those in the ICU fitted with ventilator. Earlier in September, the reserved bed capacity was increased from 25% to 35%. Also Read: Haryana governor tests positive for Covid, in Mohali Fortis ICU“Under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and the Disaster Management Act, 2005, public and private hospitals are directed to ensure 50% of the total bed capacity in the general category and 75% of the total bed capacity in the ICU and fitted with ventillators are reserved for Covid-19 patients,” the order stated. There has been a surge of new Covid-19 cases since the end of October and hospital beds are being quickly occupied by patients suffering from the viral infection.On Sunday evening, 405 Covid-19 patients were admitted to various hospitals in Gurugram. Over 600 Covid-19 patients from Delhi, Uttar Pradesh (UP), and other parts of Haryana etc were also undergoing treatment, data showed. On Monday, Gurugram is likely to cross the 40,000 mark of total Covid-19 cases reported in the district to date.“There has been an uptick in demand for ICU beds because of a spike in Covid-19 cases of late,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer of health (CMOH), Gurugram. “The decision has been taken based on the directives issued by Niti Aayog on Friday to tackle the surge of Covid-19 cases in the Delhi-National Capital Region (NCR) over the last three weeks,” he added.Niti Aayog had asked the Haryana government to take urgent steps to contain the spread of Covid-19 cases. Data showed that 2,095 beds were reserved in 42 hospitals in Gurugram on Monday, including 312 in the ICU and 139 ventillator-fitted beds, respectively. At present, 116 and 63 ICU and ventillator-fitted beds are occupied, respectively.Out of 1,644 general category beds, 994 are currently occupied.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/75-icu-beds-in-gurugram-now-reserved-for-covid-19-cases/story-1kjqMvHN5StEkAC9NKGr7L.html
16-11-2020||Dehradun||Kedarnath, Yamunotri temples close for winters amid heavy snowfall||The portals of Kedarnath and Yamunotri temples in the Garhwal Himalayas were closed for winters on Bhai Dooj on Monday amid heavy snowfall.Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, his Uttar Pradesh counterpart Yogi Adityanath, and priests and officials of Devasthanam Board were present at Kedarnath as the temple gates closed at 8.30 am after an elaborate ceremony.The two chief ministers arrived at the shrine on Sunday to offer prayers and take a look at the reconstruction projects underway at Kedarpuri.Later, the gates of Yamunotri were closed at 12.15 pm.Three out of the famous four Himalayan temples of Uttarakhand, also called Chardham, are now closed for devotees as the Gangotri temple was closed on Sunday.The Badrinath temple is scheduled to be closed on November 19.  The Kedarnath Temple priest also performed a ‘Samadhi Puja’ of Lord Shiva.       After the ceremony, an idol of Lord Shiva left on board a flower bedecked palanquin, also called Utsav Doli, for the Omkareshwar Temple in Ukhimath where he will be worshipped during the winter season.Snowfall accompanied by a drizzle began in Kedarnath on Sunday night and continued till the morning. A total of 1,35,023 pilgrims visited Kedarnath, while 8,000 devotees turned up for darshan at Yamunotri during this season which had a delayed and restricted opening for due to the Covid-19 pandemic in July this year, Devasthanam Board official Harish Gaud said.Goddess Yamuna’s Utsav Doli was taken after the closure of the Yamunotri Temple gates for Kharsali where she will be worshipped during winters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/kedarnath-yamunotri-temples-close-for-winters-amid-heavy-snowfall/story-dk9XxBSXdwfcx8Qsw8u4BP.html
16-11-2020||Delhi||As Delhi pollution spikes, AAP launches 2nd phase of ‘Red Light On, Gaadi Off’ campaign||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday launched the second phase of ‘Red Light On, Gaadi Off’ campaign in the national capital.“We successfully asked people to switch off cars at red lights. 15 days of first phase have gone well. Now we are launching second phase,” said Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia.Environment minister Gopal Rai was also present on the occasion. He thanked the people of Delhi for contributing and playing their part in switching their vehicles off on the traffic signals to combat pollution.Rai had said that to control pollution levels in Delhi, Kejriwal had launched the ‘Yuddh, Pradushan Ke Viruddh’ campaign. “Under the campaign, various initiatives have been started to combat several internal sources of pollution in Delhi, and on-ground actions have been taken,” he added.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had launched the campaign on October 21,saying that even if 10 lakh vehicles in the city join the campaign, the PM10 levels would fall by 1.5 tonnes and PM2.5 by 0.4 tonnes in a year.“The campaign was to continue till November 15. However, the Delhi government has decided to extend it till November 30 considering the pollution situation,” Rai had said during a press conference.“It will be called Phase 2 of the campaign,” he added.Like earlier, this phase will also aim to make people aware to switch their vehicles off on traffic signals, and around 2500 marshals will be deputed on the 100 junctions in 11 districts for the effective implementation of the campaign. Around 20 environmental marshals, each will be deputed on 10 major junctions. The joint monitoring system of the ACP, SDM, and Traffic Police will continue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/as-delhi-pollution-spikes-aap-launches-2nd-phase-of-red-light-on-gaadi-off-campaign/story-JylSo3eoSc9by0JbrbevKM.html
16-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana governor tests positive for Covid, in Mohali Fortis ICU||Chandigarh@hindustantimes.com Haryana governor Satyadev Narayan Arya was admitted to Fortis Hospital here on Monday after testing positive for Covid-19. Arya, 83, had chest infection and was tested on Sunday evening.A senior doctor at Fortis said the governor was admitted on Monday after he tested positive for Covid-19. He is suffering from a lung infection and is in the intensive care unit.Another official said samples of Arya’s family members and staff will also be tested and his close contacts have been asked to isolate themselves immediately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-governor-tests-positive-for-covid-in-mohali-fortis-icu/story-bH0R4ZDPb3dvrYvzyA66EI.html
16-11-2020||City||Jammu: 10 rescued from Sinthan Pass in Kishtwar||A team comprising personnel from the army and police rescued 10 people, including two women and a child, from Sinthan Pass in Kishtwar district late Sunday.They were stuck on their way to Chingam from Sinthan Pass and got stuck due to heavy snowfall, said defence spokesman Lt Col Devender Anand.“They were stranded at Sinthan Pass due to continuous snowfall last night. The rescue team walked for five hours along NH244 to reach the civilians during the night, in zero visibility conditions, and then brought them down to Sinthan Maidan where they were provided with food and shelter,” said Col Anand.Also Read: Srinagar-Jammu highway reopens as snowfall, rains abate for now, few vehicles plyAround 7pm on Sunday, police received information about civilians stranded on NH244 somewhere between Sinthan Maidan and the pass.“A team from Sinthan Maidan, comprising a junior commissioned officer and five soldiers besides four SOG personnel of police, left at 7.30pm to bring them down to Sinthan Maidan,” said Anand. The team walked for around 15km on NH244 during continuous snowfall and reached the civilians near Sinthan Pass at around 12.05am. Kishtwar district police chief SSP Harmeet Singh Mehta said, “The civilians belonged to different areas of Doda and Kishtwar and were returning to Kishtwar from Anantnag in three vehicles on Sunday.”The SSP said that around three to five feet of snow had accumulated at Sinthan Top.NH244 is 246km long, starts from Khanabal in Anantnag district and culminates at Batote in Ramban district. It touches Sinthan Top, Kishtwar, Thathri and Doda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jammu-10-rescued-from-sinthan-pass-in-kishtwar/story-5KnZLRp03Fc2W7sQziyZCI.html
16-11-2020||Delhi||No lockdown in Delhi even as Covid-19 cases go up, says Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain||A day after the meeting with union home minister Amit Shah to curb the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Delhi, the city’s health minister has stated that there will be no lockdown. “There will be no reimposition of lockdown in Delhi. I don’t think it will be an effective step now; wearing of masks will be more beneficial,” said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain to ANI. He added that Delhi has crossed the peak of the third wave of infections. The number of Covid-19 cases started soaring about three weeks ago, with the highest number of cases so far—8,593—being recorded on November 11. Delhi reported 3,235 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Diwali as per Sunday’s health bulletin. Experts, however, have warned that this decline could be because of fewer people getting tested closer to the festive season and the numbers might go up again. Also Read: Covid-19: 75 paramilitary doctors, 350 paramedics head to Delhi after Amit Shah’s meeting“There was a dip in numbers, but it is too soon to say whether the number of infections has peaked. In fact, I think that it isn’t even true decline. With Diwali, fewer people might have gotten tested. We are likely to see more cases on Monday again,” said Dr Vikas Maurya, director, department of pulmonology and sleep disorders at Fortis Hospital, Shalimar Bagh. Adding to the worries are Delhi’s pollution levels that usually go up during winter and the dip in temperature, both of which can result in more infections and severe disease.A committee headed by Niti Aayog member Dr VK Paul had said Delhi might see as many as 15,000 cases a day in the winter. In the meeting with the union home minister Amit Shah, it was decided that the number of tests will be increased to about 100,000 a day, with assistance from the centre. Currently, the city tests about 60,000 samples a day. There will also be an increase in the number of ICU beds in the army-run facility at Dhaula Kuan, the number of oxygen beds at the 10,000-bed Covid Care Centre at Chhatarpur, and doctors from paramilitary forces will be flown in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/no-lockdown-in-delhi-even-as-covid-19-cases-go-up-says-delhi-health-minister-satyendar-jain/story-Vc1jdf9VP7FevclfZJ6aXO.html
16-11-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal’s tourist destinations of Manali, Kufri get season’s first snowfall||Himachal Pradesh’s tourist destination of Manali besides Kufri and Narkanda near Shimla received the season’s first snowfall with the temperature dipping across the state on Monday. State meteorological department director Manmohan Singh said that snowfall in the higher reaches and rainfall in the mid-hills that began on Sunday night will continue on Monday. The 97-km national highway number 305 was closed for traffic between between Sainj and Aut due to fresh snow at the 10, 570-ft Jalori Pass in Kullu district. Kullu superintendent of police Gaurav Singh said that roads beyond Palchan and Solang Nalla were also shut and people have been urged not to venture to these areas until the snow is cleared. Sangla received 25cm of snowfall, Gondla 20cm, Kothi 20cm, Khoksar 10cm, Kalpa 5.6cm, Keylong 4cm and Manali 2cm of snowfall followed by 20mm of rainfall. In Shimla district, Khadrala got 18cm of snowfall, Shilaroo 10.4cm and Kufri 7cm. Light to moderate snowfall occurred at Kharapathar and Narkanda. SHIMLA SHIVERS AT 3.6 degrees Dalhousie received 33mm of rainfall, Solan 27mm, Shimla 21.6mm, Una 16mm, Palampur 15mm, Dharamshala 12.6mm and Hamirpur, Bilaspur and Mandi 11mm each. The minimum temperatures also dropped by one to two degrees in the past 24 hours Shimla recorded a low of 3.6°C, while Kufri, 14 km from Shimla, froze at 0°C. Manali, Dharamshala and Dalhousie recorded minimum temperatures of 0.2°C, 5.8°C and 0.6°C, respectively. Una recorded a low of 11°C, Bilaspur recorded 11°C, Hamirpur 10.4°C, Nahan 12.5°C and Kalpa minus 0.8°C, while Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district was the coldest with a minimum temperature of minus 3°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-s-tourist-destinations-of-manali-kufri-get-season-s-first-snowfall/story-Ni6JYnxBAyt830zPbtigbJ.html
16-11-2020||City||Tripura engineer generates power from wet clothes, receives innovation award||An engineer from Tripura has developed a technology to generate power from wet clothes that can be used to charge mobile phones or to use medical diagnostic devices.This innovation won him the Gandhian Young Technological Innovation ( GYTI) award this November; it was presented by Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan. Shankha Subhra Das, from Khedabari in Sepahijala district of Tripura, used a cloth cut to a particular size and inserted it in a plastic straw to fix in a half-filled water container. He attached copper electrodes to both ends of the straw. “The water is transported to the top after some time, due to capillary action, and around 700 millivolts are registered in the voltmeter,” Das said. To increase power, Das and his team connected a series of 30-40 such devices. According to Das, this generates 12 volts, enough to charge mobile phones, microchip, mini gadget, medical diagnostic kits and even light a small LED bulb. “This is part of a funded research project wherein we have explored the scope of powering medical diagnostic devices that can be used in remote places. We have found cloth-based devices useful for our project. Our challenge was to eliminate external pumping input for water flow,” Das said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tripura-engineer-generates-power-from-wet-clothes-receives-innovation-award/story-pmjarMi1JPKUZXEN2NtjwO.html
16-11-2020||Delhi||‘3rd wave of Covid-19 has passed its peak in Delhi,’ says health minister Satyendar Jain||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Monday said that coronavirus (Covid-19) infection peak has passed in the national Capital and that there will be no reimposition of lockdown in Delhi. He also reiterated the importance of wearing masks in preventing the spread of the disease.“There will be no reimposition of lockdown in Delhi. I don’t think it will be an effective step now, wearing of masks by everyone will be more beneficial,” Jain said, adding that the third wave of Covid-19 has passed its peak in Delhi.Also Read: Steep decline in daily Covid-19 numbers; recovery rate above 93%Jain’s statement comes in the backdrop of the Capital being in the grip of an unprecedented wave of infections. On Sunday, Union home minister Amit Shah chaired a meeting in which a decision to provide hundreds of more intensive care unit (ICU) beds for Covid-19 patients in Delhi was taken.Testing for the disease will be doubled and doctors from central paramilitary forces will be flown in, it was decided. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and Delhi’s lieutenant governor and top officials from Niti Aayog, Indian Council of Medical Research and All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) also attended the meeting.Also Read: Covid-19: Home secy to chair meeting to rework Delhi’s containment strategy todayIn another attempt to bring the situation back under control, home secretary Ajay Bhalla will on Monday chair a meeting with union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan and the Delhi chief secretary to rework the containment strategy of Delhi.On Sunday, Delhi recorded 3,235 fresh cases, the lowest since October 26 when 2,832 cases were seen, taking the infection tally to 4,85,405. The low daily infection tally may be attributed to fewer tests being conducted on Diwali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/3rd-wave-of-covid-19-has-passed-its-peak-in-delhi-says-health-minister-satyendar-jain/story-zbB5LHwtMHig09NUxIAMZI.html
16-11-2020||Ranchi||No Chhath Puja celebration near water bodies in Jharkhand||In view of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, the Jharkhand government has decided to ban organising of Chhath Puja celebrations on the banks of water bodies. Chhat Puja, observed mainly by the people of Bihar, Jharkhand and bordering areas in Uttar Pradesh, will be celebrated on November 20.“Chhath Puja in water bodies including public ponds, lakes, rivers, dams, reservoirs shall not be permitted in view of Covid-19 pandemic,” said a notice issued by the government.As part of this puja, devotees congregate on the banks of water bodies, take a holy dip and perform a few rituals, all standing inside the water. “Due to the fixed timing of performing the aforementioned rituals, it is not possible to ensure social distancing,” the notice read.“The ritual of holy bathing in common waters is a matter of serious concern,” the notice pointed out, adding that it would increase the chances of spreading of Covid-19 and contaminate the water. “It is important to strike a balance between permitting religious activities and ensuring that checks and balances are in place to prevent the spread of coronavirus,” it further read.Kolkata and New Delhi governments have also imposed restrictions on the celebrations this year.India on Monday recorded 30,548 fresh Covid-19 cases. The total number of people infected with the disease has gone up to 8,845,127 while 130,070 people have died so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/no-chhath-puja-celebration-near-water-bodies-in-jharkhand/story-XJV5nG072SE3XgrrVPjc5L.html
16-11-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Home secy to chair meeting to rework Delhi’s containment strategy today||Home secretary Ajay Bhalla will chair a crucial meeting with union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan and the Delhi chief secretary on Monday to rework the containment strategy of Delhi, a day after home minister Amit Shah reviewed the Covid-19 situation in the national capital.Delhi, which is facing a huge surge in Covid-19 cases every day, is going through its worst phase of the pandemic so far, and its Covid-19 management strategy is facing intense scrutiny. According to two officials present at the meeting on Sunday, Niti Aayog’s Dr VK Paul described the Delhi situation as “unprecedented” and added that “it is likely to become worse”. He said Delhi’s containment strategy has gone haywire and contact tracing must be followed up with mandatory home isolation. Also Read: Steep decline in daily Covid-19 numbers; recovery rate above 93%On Monday, the three top officials will sit together to rework Delhi’s containment strategy. Delhi has over 80 containment zones and there is a distinct possibility that more areas may be brought into containment zones. Officials also revealed that the issue of reimposition of some lockdown provisions in the capital was raised but no further discussion took place. Paul’s presentation pointed out that Delhi’s positivity rate has increased from 5% in July to 14% now. Paul also advised officials that they should not count the data for the last two days as there would have been lesser tests anyway due to Diwali. He pointed out that in July- August, the death rate was 10 per day and now it is over 100 daily. He said the case fatality rate (CFR) of 1.5% would increase. According to the presentation, on November 11, Delhi registered 361 per million cases, the highest ever anywhere in India, surpassing the worst of Mumbai (140 per million) and Chennai’s 214 per million. He said that Delhi must substantially increase ICU facilities, double the daily testing rate, and augment home care facilities as a large number of people are in home care.He said more doctors and nurses need to be mobilised and that retired doctors and nurses, and senior and junior residents must be tapped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-home-secretary-to-chair-meeting-to-rework-delhi-s-containment-strategy-today/story-hAWghohvVbizqhtInpRKMJ.html
16-11-2020||Delhi||Noise pollution up from last year||In at least three of six residential localities surveyed by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), noise levels on Diwali night were higher compared to 2019, data shows. The CPCB surveyed five residential colonies and one industrial area — Lajpat Nagar, Mayur Vihar Phase-2, Pitampura, Kamla Nagar, Janakpuri and Okhla — for noise levels on Diwali night. Of these, the noise levels this year were higher compared to 2019 in three areas. Data shows that in between 6pm and midnight, Lajpat Nagar recorded 71 decibels of noise levels as against 69dB (A) recorded last year, in Mayur Vihar Phase-2 the levels rose to 72dB (A) from 68dB (A) recorded last year. Similar trends were seen in Janakpuri, where on Saturday night 72dB (A) noise levels were recorded, while in 2019, 71dB (A) noise levels were recorded on Diwali night. The noise standards for residential areas are 55 dB (A) during the day and 45 dB (A) at night. The industrial area standards are 75 dB (A) during the day and 70 dB (A) at night time. The CPCB report said the pollution monitoring body had monitored pre-Diwali noise levels on November 9, to get a sense of the contribution of firecrackers. Since 2016, on a regular day, the ambient levels in five of these six localities, noise levels had reduced or remained unchanged. “Pre-Diwali day values are only indicative when background noise making activities, such as fire crackers, are not affecting ambient noise level,” the CPCB report read. A senior official of the CPCB explained that while green crackers were allowed in Delhi last Diwali, there was a complete ban on all kinds of crackers this year, and that the data therefore indicates that several residents did not adhere to the ban. “In ideal circumstances, the noise levels should have remained the same as that on a regular day because crackers were completely banned. This issue was foreseen because Delhi cannot be seen in isolation, even if you ban crackers in the Capital, there are means for people to easily procure crackers from towns in the National Capital Region (NCR). In the data we can see that the levels in residential areas suddenly saw a spike from 6pm, when cracker bursting started,” the official said. The body also said that they are monitoring noise level 24x7 at 10 localities across the city to assess noise pollution for a fortnight, before and after Diwali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/noise-pollution-up-from-last-year/story-lGbfTKssox6O1srT69CpQI.html
16-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Air quality improves marginally after Sunday’s rain||Delhi’s air quality index (AQI) improved from “severe” on Sunday afternoon to “very poor” category by late evening. The AQI further improved on Monday morning, but still remained in the “very poor category. The national capital’s AQI improved to 325 on Monday morning from 395 on Sunday evening. An AQI between 401 and 500 and 301 and 400 is considered in the “very poor” and “severe” category, respectively. Severe air quality was recorded on the Diwali day, which was celebrated on Saturday (November 14), but dispersed quickly by the evening because of rainfall and thunderstorms triggered by a Western disturbance in the western Himalayan region. Also read | Diwali pollution: Delhi-NCR exhibits irresponsibility, againSome parts of Delhi had received rainfall, measuring up to 2 millimetres (mm), till at around 6.30pm on Sunday accompanied by winds blowing up to 30 kilometres per hour (kmph). The wind speed helped disperse Diwali-induced air pollution accumulated over the past two days. Favourable meteorological conditions helped improve the national capital’s AQI this year after Diwali, which was far worse during the corresponding period last year. In 2019, Diwali was celebrated on October 27. The AQI on October 27 and 28 was 337 and 368, respectively, and was in the “very poor” category. On October 29 and 30, the AQI further worsened to the “severe” category and showed 401 and 419, respectively. The Union Ministry of Earth Sciences’ (MoES) air quality early warning system has forecast that wind direction would likely to be easterly or north-easterly on Monday and wind would blow up to six kmph. “The AQI is likely to remain in the ‘very poor’ category on Monday. Wind speed is unlikely to pick up significantly. As a result, no major improvement in the AQI is expected,” said Vijay Soni, a scientist at India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) air quality division. Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) evaluation report on air and noise pollution levels was released on Sunday. CPCB data showed that the AQI was far higher than last year, despite a blanket ban on sale and use of firecrackers because of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak and pollution woes. Besides, there was no significant dip in noise pollution levels. Delhi’s average particulate matter (PM) 10 and PM 2.5 concentrations on Diwali day was 645 micrograms (mg) per cubic metres (m), 6.45 times of the national standard and 483 mg per cubic m, eight times of the national safe standard. CPCB attributed the AQI to unfavourable meteorological conditions along with an impact of raging stubble fires in neighbouring Haryana, Punjab and parts of western Uttar Pradesh. This year the surface temperature and average mixing height were recorded to be the lowest in the last five years. A lower mixing height limits vertical dispersion. The hourly average concentration of PM2.5 started increasing since 11pm on Saturday (November 14) and reached its peak in most of the weather stations at around 1am, the report added. “This year air pollution levels both during pre-Diwali and the Diwali day have been higher than last year. One of main reasons for this is the contribution of stubble fires to Delhi’s PM 2.5 concentrations on both the days. On the Diwali day, stubble fires contributed to 32% of Delhi’s PM 2.5 load and on the pre-Diwali day it was 38%. Meteorological conditions are also adverse because Diwali was in mid-November this year, when mixing height is low (mixing height is the height at which pollutants mix in the air). The contribution of firecrackers or festivities is lower this year, as compared to 2019. Besides, pollution levels had spiked substantially last year on the Diwali day, as compared to pre-Diwali,” said a CPCB scientist on condition of anonymity.The minimum temperature in Delhi on Monday morning was 16 degrees Celsius (C) -- 2 degrees C above normal. It is likely to fall below 10 degrees C in the next two-three days, according to IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-air-quality-improves-marginally-after-sunday-s-rain/story-9879mXAsbSm24tCGIBcU6O.html
16-11-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: A train station steeped in history||Intro: Slow life in an atmospheric railway landmarkHere’s a little survey of the National Capital Region — for one city, it turns out to be particularly embarrassing. New Delhi railway station has 16 platforms. Ghaziabad railway station has 6. Faridabad has 4. Gurugram has 3.And they say Gurugram is the Millennium City.Even so, while the station is comparatively minuscule, it is an object of historical curiosity. In a place such as Gurugram, where everything noteworthy appears to have spring up after the year 2000, this station traces its origins to the Rajputana-Malwa metre-gauge line, laid way back in 1879. Indeed, according to the Gurgaon Gazetteer, 1883, the Rajputana-Malwa State Railway was the first railway in India to be constructed following the metre-gauge standards, and the first railway to be built and operated under the government of British India. Today, the station exists like a lonely island, hardly bearing any resemblance with the hyperactive metropolis that Gurugram has become. If a foreigner were airdropped into it, she would refuse to believe that this is the only station in a sprawling city otherwise stuffed with swanky malls and high-rises. The station is so laidback that it is difficult to spot even a coolie, or porter. There are anyway only six of them—Vishnu, Ajay Tiwari, Ram Kripal, Raju, Sunil and Bhagwan Shah. Not surprisingly, time in the station moves as slowly as any lazy passenger train, though some buzz can be experienced around the bread-pakora cart on platform 2. As for Platform 1, it used to have a bookstore (the only non-academic bookshop in this part of the city) but it shut down a year ago and now sells biscuits and namkeens. A snack cart nearby, however, makes excellent green chilly pakoras.But let’s go back to Platform 2 and its own cluster of high-rises—it has quite a few trees, and among them the tallest, the densest is a most luxuriant banyan. A huge plinth is built around its trunk, which itself is so huge that more than ten people would have to hold hands to make a circle around it. Existing like a self-sustaining eco-system under the tree’s welcoming shade, this sanctuary can rival the AC of any First Class Waiting Room. Squirrels run after one another along scores of narrow, twisty sub-branches. The foliage itself is alive with bird sounds, but so leafy that you can barely spot the birds. Very often waiting passengers lie under it for a nap.In fact, the atmosphere around the tree is what city folks like us might imagine a sleepy village square to be. While the entire station remains one of those places in urbanised Gurugram where you can spot folks dressed in ethnic costumes—men in turbans and dhotis, and women in long ghagras.One of the most evocative sights in the station is found on a wall of the entrance foyer. It lists trains passing through Gurugram, and connecting it to places such as Sultanpur, Sikar, Ajmer, Bhuj and Farrukhnagar. There are actually two boards—one lists trains going towards the direction of Rewari, the other lists trains going towards Delhi. The layout resembles the pages of the railway timetable book that most train users kept at home before the internet made it museum worthy.Gazing a moment upon this wall is reason enough to treasure the small railway station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-train-station-steeped-in-history/story-a3S5HZBaJeZeIf7wb05WBK.html
16-11-2020||Delhi||Rain, strong winds help Delhi get cleaner air day after Diwali||The weather gods came to Delhi’s rescue a day after Diwali, helping the city get a breather from the incessant cracker bursting on Saturday. While Delhi’s air quality index remained in the ‘severe’ zone on Sunday, high wind speed and rain in various parts of the city helped improve the air. This improvement is expected to continue till Monday when the AQI levels are likely to come back to the ‘very poor’ zone, the weather forecast said.Senior scientists at India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that a western disturbance, which started impacting the Western Himalayas on Saturday, brought widespread and moderate rains to Delhi NCR. Delhi recorded 0.4mm rainfall till 5.30 pm (at Safdarjung observatory) on Sunday and average wind speed over the city touched 40kmph by evening.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that the wind direction blowing over Delhi changed from north-westerly to easterly, which also reduced the transport of stubble smoke from Punjab and Haryana.“At the Safdarjung observatory, the maximum temperature was recorded 29.1 degree Celsius, while the minimum temperature was 11.4 degree Celsius, which is two degrees below the season’s normal. Wind speed will remain high in Delhi and NCR throughout Sunday night, which will help in the dispersion of pollutants,” Srivastava said.IMD recordings show that the Palam observatory recorded 1.8mm rainfall, Ridge recorded 1.2mm rainfall and at Jafarpur and Najafgarh, 1mm rainfall was recorded till 6.30pm on Sunday.Unlike previous years when air pollution levels remain very high turning to “severe” category the day after Diwali, this time air pollution levels gradually reduced on the day after Diwali due to favourable meteorological conditions.For instance, in 2019, Diwali was on October 27. The air quality index (AQI) on October 27 and 28 were 337 and 368 respectively both in “very poor” category. But on October 29 and 30 air quality had deteriorated to “severe” category with AQI of 400 and 419.“Delhi escaped prolonged exposure to severe air pollution this time because of the western disturbance. It has brought rain and thundershowers to many parts of northwest India. The wind speed started picking up since Sunday morning recording over 10 kmph which led to gradual dispersal. Winds were stronger in the evening when it started raining. We expect that air pollution levels will reduce significantly tonight,” said Vijay Soni, scientist at IMD’s air quality division.The ventilation index on Sunday was approx. 10000 m2/s. The ventilation index is a function of the mixing height and the wind speed and defines the ability of the atmosphere to disperse contaminants. A ventilation index below 2,350 sq metres/second is considered poor.Mixing height is the height at which pollutants mix in the air.Winter chill is likely to set in over northwest India in a couple of days due to the impact of the WD. “The minimum temperature is likely to fall in the next couple of days by about 2 to 4 degree C due to cold winds from the Himalayan region,” said M Mohapatra, director general, IMD.The western disturbance was lying over Afghanistan and neighbourhood on Sunday. Under the influence of the Western Disturbance, an induced cyclonic circulation and its interaction with lower level easterlies, widespread rainfall accompanied with thunderstorm, hailstorm and lightning was recorded over the Western Himalayan region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/rain-strong-winds-help-city-get-cleaner-air-day-after-diwali/story-zd5k8MHMmGRmHJRuRii6hO.html
16-11-2020||Delhi||Pollution levels soar on Diwali as cracker ban falls flat in Delhi||Pollution levels soared in the national Capital on Saturday night and early Sunday morning as tens of thousands of people defied the ban on firecrackers, before providential winds blowing in the right direction flushed the pollutants out on Sunday, with a smattering of rain in the late afternoon and evening washing everything down. On Saturday and early Sunday, though readings from air quality sensors across the city showed a rapid rise in concentration of harmful emissions, before going on to surpass levels seen during last year’s Diwali. The average air quality index rose from 414 at 4pm on Saturday to reach 435 on Sunday, with PM2.5 and PM10 emission concentration recording a sharp spike that began at 6pm. According to the Central Pollution Control Board’s emergency dashboard, concentration of PM2.5 – ultra-fine particles that can stick deep into a person’s lungs – went from 306ug/m3 at 5pm to a peak of 672 ug/m3 at 2am.The crackers just made already bad air worse. “This year air pollution levels both during pre-Diwali and Diwali day has been higher than last year. One of main reasons for this is the contribution of stubble fires to Delhi’s PM 2.5 concentrations on both days. On Diwali day, stubble fires contributed to 32% of Delhi’s PM 2.5 load and on pre-Diwali day it was 38%,” said a senior CPCB scientist on condition of anonymity. But then, the region had an unexpected stroke of luck this year, one absent during last year’s Diwali, when pollutants from the farm fires and from firecrackers enveloped the city in a noxious shroud. A senior official from SAFAR, Union ministry of earth sciences’s air quality monitoring centre, said that even though the spike in pollution levels witnessed on Saturday was highest compared to the Diwali days, the dispersion post-Diwali was also the fastest because of high wind speed.“Looking at the dispersion of pollutants, this was the best Diwali compared to the last four years. The winds were strong and the rain also helped wash off pollutants,” said the Safar official. By late Sunday evening, the AQI was at 395, in the ‘very poor’ category.On Diwali day, the emissions trajectory was in near tandem with what was seen last year, when it began climbing around 5-6pm before peaking around 1-2am. In 2019, baseline pollution levels were lower than what they were this year, which meant the peak pollution was nine times more than before Diwali celebrations began – compared to twice as more this year. In absolute terms, however, the concentration of the ultra-fine particles was more this year than it was last year.It was around 6pm on Saturday that PM2.5 levels crossed the emergency threshold – 300ug/m3, a level where it would stay at least for the next 24 hours despite an increase in wind speeds and some rain the following day. This post-Diwali spike in pollution has been a consistent trend for the last five years and it comes at a time of the year when the air is already a mix of smoke from farm fires in neighbouring states and dust from an increasingly drying, post-monsoon ground.“Meteorological conditions are also adverse because Diwali was in mid-November this year when mixing height is low (mixing height is the height at which pollutants mix in the air). But our understanding is that the contribution of firecrackers or festivities is lower this year compared to 2019. This is evident from the fact that pollution levels spiked substantially last year on Diwali in comparison to pre-Diwali day,” the CPCB scientist added.According to CPCB’s analysis of its three manually operated stations at ITO, Pitampura and Janakpuri, and three real time stations at Dilshad Garden, Shadipur and Dwarka, most pollution parameters were found to be higher than last year in a majority of the stations monitored both on Diwali day between 6am on Saturday to 6am on Sunday and on a pre-Diwali day on November 9 during the same period. “On Diwali day (this year), almost all the pollutants reported higher values as compared to 2019 Diwali day. Pitampura recorded increase in PM and SO2 indicating impact of firecracker bursting on Diwali day,” said the CPCB report referring to data from three manual monitoring stations. Similar trends were seen in data from automatic stations also. Noise data from six stations reveal that at three locations (Lajpat Nagar, Mayur Vihar Phase-II, Janakpuri) it increased on Diwali night this year compared to 2019, while it remained same at one (Kamla Nagar) and decreased at two (Pitampura and Okhla). Highest noise levels were recorded at Mayur Vihar Phase II and Janakpuri at 72 Leq dB(A) between 6pm and midnight.According to CPCB data, the air quality index (AQI) at 10am on Saturday was 369, but the value reached 378 at 12pm, 385 at 1pm, 396 at 2pm. By 3pm, the AQI recording had slipped into the “severe” zone, at 405.As firecracker bursting continued unabated across the national Capital, by Saturday midnight the AQI had spiked to touch 460, with air quality monitoring stations such as Jahagirpuri maxing out at 500, which is the highest possible recording on the AQI scale. Stations including Narela, Bawana, Vivek Vihar and Alipur also clocked AQI levels above 485, by 12am.With a ban ordered by the National Green Tribunal on November 9, the Delhi Police said it registered 1,206 cases on Saturday for selling and bursting firecrackers, and held 850 people for such offences.In all, the number of people booked and held for selling and bursting firecrackers on Diwali night and in the days preceding it far outnumbered similar action last year when there was a ban only on non-green firecrackers.The police said that people were also able to burst firecrackers because it was difficult for the police to act against those who were bursting them from their homes or from multi-storey buildings. “We had an active presence in the streets, but there is only so much you can do about such activities in buildings,” said another police officer.Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), said that the firecracker bursting on Saturday showed that no ban can be implemented without the participation of public and therefore the stress should be on creating awareness among people. “Collective and cohesive framing of problems and solutions at the community level is still a work in progress.This argument by no means is pushing the onus and burden of action to individual decisions and choices and detracting attention from stronger governmental action for good governance. Governments will have to act. But this is about strengthening societal acceptance of difficult action that otherwise get slow because of lack of public support,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/pollution-levels-soar-on-diwali-as-cracker-ban-falls-flat-in-delhi/story-SrIy5PRFKjc4J9KUmMJvcM.html
16-11-2020||City||Four lives snuffed out in road mishaps in Haryana||Four persons were killed in two separate accidents that took place in Haryana, police said on Sunday. In the first case, Pankaj and Ajit Kumar from Rohtak lost their lives after the Mahindra Scorpio SUV they were travelling in crashed into a divider near Chhichhrana village in Sonepat on Saturday. A spokesperson of the Sonepat police said the accident took place when the victims were going towards Panipat from Rohtak. “We have sent their bodies for postmortem examination and launched an investigation into the matter,” he added.The second mishap occurred on the National Highway 44 near Karnal wherein two employees of a private company were killed. The deceased have been identified as Kuldeep Singh, 35, of Punjab’s Hoshiarpur and Bhim Singh, 26, from Jharkhand.The police said the victims used to work at Daruhera in Gurugram and were on their way to Himachal Pradesh. As per the police, the accident took place late on Saturday when a truck hit their canter in which they were transporting some raw material from their Daruhera plant to Una in Himachal. Investigating officer Satish Kumar said the driver of the truck managed to flee the accident spot, but a commuter provided the registration number of the vehicle with the help of which it was traced and its driver arrested under sections 279 and 304 A of the IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-lives-snuffed-out-in-road-mishaps-in-haryana/story-dYYA9jtkLSZIfEsHFTazIP.html
16-11-2020||City||Haryana logs 46% rise in farm fires this year||Notwithstanding the Haryana government’s claims of zero farm fires this year, the state has reported 46% rise in such incidents than the last year, forcing the authorities to ban the sale and use of fire crackers in 21 districts of the state during festivals.As per the data released by the Haryana Space Applications Centre (HARSAC), the state has this year logged 8,831 active fire locations (AFLs) so far against the last year’s total 6,630 (from September 25 to November 30).The number may go up further as the stubble burning is still going on with around 200 AFLs being reported in the state in the last 24 hours. The maximum number of farm fires has been reported in Fatehabad district (1,682), followed by 1,521 in Kaithal, 1,096 in Jind, 1,041 in Karnal, 837 Kurukshetra, 801 in Ambala, 496 in Yamunanagar, and 473 in Sirsa.Districts with a small area under paddy cultivation also reported the stubble burning incidents as 279 AFLs were witnessed in Hisar, 152 in Sonepat, 126 in Rohtak and 118 in Palwal.As of now, there is no visible impact of the central government’s decision to form a commission for action against violators causing air pollution in the National Capital Region (NCR) with hefty penalty up to ₹1 crore and jail term up to five years. The farm fires have increased despite the officials in the state agriculture department claiming that area under paddy cultivation has declined to around 11.5 lakh hectares against 12.5 lakh hectares last year, following the cash incentive scheme for diversification. The farm fires have affected the air quality of several cities, especially those falling in NCR as the bulletin of the Central Pollution Control Board revealed that the air quality of Jind, Murthal, Gurugram, Fatehabad and Hisar fallen to “severe” category with the Air Quality Index (AQI) of these cities was found above 400, while Rohtak, Bahadurgarh, Sonepat, Karnal, Kurukshetra and Sirsa were in the “very poor” category on Sunday.Officials in the state agriculture department claimed that they were making all efforts by providing subsidised machines to farmers for the management of crop waste. Haryana State Pollution Control Board member secretary S Narayanan said that they were making efforts to minimise the incidents of farm fires and ground level officers of the board were working hard to make farmers aware of the harms of stubble burning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-logs-46-rise-in-farm-fires-this-year/story-XjRRfMnbfY0PJHPOSHTYNO.html
16-11-2020||Chandigarh||Appointment of non-cadre officers to cadre posts needs Centre’s approval: Khemka||Bringing up the issue of appointment of non-cadre officers on cadre posts meant for the IAS officers, senior Haryana IAS officer Ashok Khemka has written to the chief secretary to refer such cases for the consideration of the central government. The Haryana government has appointed a number of IPS, IFS and IRS officers to the cadre posts of the IAS. In a November 3 demi-official communication to the chief secretary, Khemka said that IAS cadre rules stipulated that a non-cadre officer may be appointed temporarily to a cadre post if no suitable cadre officer is available and that too for a maximum period of three months. “For continuing a non-cadre officer on a cadre post beyond three months, prior approval of the central government is mandatory. Besides, advice of the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) is required if a non-cadre officer is to be continued beyond six months,” the officer wrote. Khemka has requested the chief secretary to refer the cases of IPS, IRS and IFS officers appointed on the cadre posts of IAS officers to the central government. The officer has also sought that the Civil Services Board (CSB) be activated as transfers and postings of IAS officers can be done only on its recommendation. The chief minister may though modify, amend or reject CSB’s recommendations by recorded reasons on writing. “Transfers and postings without prior recommendation of the CSB violated the rules in letter and spirit. Ex post facto rubber stamping by the CSB is undoing the civil service reforms. It needs no reiteration that transfers and postings are to be done in best public interest and discretion ends where the rules begin. Certain amendments were made in the IAS Cadre Rules following Supreme Court directions in TSR Subramanian case,” Khemka wrote. The IAS officer, who is known for plain speaking, said a public post does not exist in vacuum and is created after consultation with the public service commission. There exists a service rule for every public post laying down duties and responsibilities, eligibility, qualifications, experience, mode of selection, and remuneration, he said. Khemka said that some additional chief secretaries and principal secretaries were grossly underutilised with not more than a few hours of workload during the day. Under these circumstances, there is no justification to appoint non-cadre officers to the cadre posts of principal secretaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/appointment-of-non-cadre-officers-to-cadre-posts-needs-centre-s-approval-khemka/story-52s6HZSi55zx0AZhChPjzM.html
16-11-2020||Mumbai||Woman arrested for duping south Mumbai jeweller, stealing 180 grams of gold||The property cell of the Mumbai crime branch arrested a 39-year-old woman on Saturday for allegedly duping a jeweller and stealing 180 gram (18 tolas) of gold by exchanging real gold ornaments with imitation jewellery.According to police, the accused is identified as Sana Shaikh, a housewife from Nal Bazar in south Mumbai. The incident came to light last month when she managed to steal gold ornaments worth ₹43,100 from the shop without the owner’s knowledge. The shopkeeper Deepak Rathod later found the gold ornaments missing so he checked the CCTV footage and learnt that a burkha-clad woman replaced the gold ornaments with imitation ones, said Kedari Pawar, police inspector of the property cell.Rathod then approached the Byculla police station, and a case was registered against the woman. After an extensive search, the property cell managed to arrest the woman. During the inquiry, she confessed that she had visited the shop five to six times in the last few months. After finalising the gold ornaments, she took photos of them and said she would buy them within two to three days, added Pawar. In her next visit, she carried imitation jewellery in the same design and exchanged them with the real ones. Police are now trying to find out if Shaikh committed similar offences in other jewellery shops using the same modus operandi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/woman-arrested-for-duping-south-mumbai-jeweller-stealing-180-grams-of-gold/story-iyAUQ1wb8mvcNZTmb0C9sK.html
16-11-2020||Mumbai||Drug menace in Mumbai will continue until agencies break the source of supply chain, say experts||Even as the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) continues its crackdown on the drug menace in Bollywood, the anti-narcotics cell of the Mumbai Police, too, has taken action against several drug peddlers across the city this year. However, despite all the efforts, the drug menace in the city is unlikely to end as none of the state or central agencies have cracked down on the supply chain that provides drugs, said former senior police officers. Till September, Mumbai Police had registered 2,720 cases of drug-related cases, including 2,503 cases of consumption. The police also seized drugs worth Rs15 crore, including 6.3kg of heroin, 7.3kg of charas worth Rs33 lakh, cocaine worth Rs10 lakh, 2.26kg of mephedrone worth Rs65.1lakh and 336kg of ganja worth Rs1.29crore. The figures are much lesser as compared to the 10,394 drug-related cases registered last year till September. An officer said that there was a decline in the seizure and registration of cases primarily because of the Covid-19 pandemic and the ensuing lockdown, which halted the flow of drugs into the city. Despite the action against drug supply and consumption, law enforcement agencies did not achieve any major success in busting an entire supply chain or unearthing any links related to drug trafficking cartel operating out of Himachal Pradesh, Kashmir and Andhra Pradesh, where weed and hashish are produced. “Hashish, which fetches a lot of money, is primarily controlled by the Russian drug mafia or the Israeli drug mafia, unlike marijuana whose production and supply is controlled by locals from different parts of the country. Till we do not dismantle these drug syndicates, the supply into the city will continue,” a senior Indian Police Service (IPS) officer said. The chain will stop only when the source of the drug or supplier is busted, added the officer. “If a well-coordinated major crackdown against the drug’s supply chain or the core source unit of the drugs manufacturers is not taken, then the flow of drugs into the city will continue as always,” said former Maharashtra anti-terrorism squad chief, KP Raghuvanshi. “A peddler has a very small unit of drugs. In fact, they are also victims. Most of them start as consumers and end up being peddlers. They peddle primarily to fulfil their own need to consume drug and also to make small monetary gains,” Raghuvanshi added. Former director general of Maharashtra Police PS Pasricha also said that peddlers are the last unit in the drug chain before the consumers. “They don’t run the drug business. Hence, the police agencies should focus more on busting the entire supply chain to stop the actual supply of flow of drugs in the city. But the city’s police often don’t prefer going after the suppliers as they work in a set format and are bound with too many restrictions – one of the biggest ones being the problem of jurisdiction.” Raghuvanshi opined that even if the local ANC units set aside their regular duty of keeping a check on the local peddlers in the city and go after the supply chain or busting the source of the drugs then they face many challenges. “If local police wants to take any action against any drug rackets in other state, then they would have to involve the local police of that state. Also, many drug rackets flourish their businesses are in connivance with the local police, which tip them off whenever police from other states arrive in their territory for crackdown,” Raghuvanshi said. According to Pasricha, as local ANCs have limited resources and network, the central anti-narcotics agencies such as the NCB and the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence are entrusted with the task of going after the supply chain. In India, majority of the domestic as well as international narcotics syndicates, especially those trafficking cocaine and heroin, penetrate into metros such as Delhi and Mumbai. In Mumbai, cocaine is ferried mostly by nationals of African countries, who are hired by Colombian and other South American drug cartels. Most cocaine peddlers and smugglers who have been arrested in Mumbai by ANC and NCB are from African countries, especially Nigeria, which is known to be the key transit point for Colombian drug cartels, said another IPS officer from Mumbai Police. The other major drug heroin is trafficked into India from the cartels operating out of Afghanistan. Though the NCB has not carried out any significant crackdown on the drug supply chains in Maharashtra in the past couple of years, the DRI has busted scores of drug manufacturing units being operated from chemical factories. A senior DRI officer said that around 15 (synthetic) drugs manufacturing factories were busted by the agency in the past five years. In Maharashtra, DRI raided factories and make-shift set ups in Palghar, Raigad and Kolhapur districts in the past couple of years. KPS Malhotra, deputy director (operations), NCB, said, “Narcotics trafficking is a network crime. It involves two kinds of networking: tiered and flat. To bust a supply chain, the law enforcers keep on looking for the intelligence thread linked to the entire chain at any level, from consumers to the manufacturers or cartel runners. The majority of cartels, especially the domestic ones, keep on changing their methods, locations and members to stay off the radar of the NCB or other law enforcement agencies. The groups would set up some makeshift facilities in the interiors of the country, produce drugs and then dismantle everything. Despite this, efforts are always taken to derail their plans.” However, a senior police officer from Mumbai Police said that said that the DRI’s operations too have remained restricted to domestic syndicates which manufacture synthetic drugs or psychotropic substances. Even they find it difficult to cut the supply chain of drugs that involves international cartels. Another senior DRI officer said, “Crackdowns on the supply chain of traditional drugs such as cocaine or heroin, which are being trafficked into the country, is difficult. Developing information obtained from the domestic member of the racket and then taking on the supply chain or cartels operating internationally have a very low success rate as it requires the involvement of cross-borders and multiple national and international agencies. But there are mechanisms to share information across the border. UNODC (United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime) and Interpol generally help in information-sharing and ensure action against the cartel runner.” Explaining the challenges faced by the law enforcers with respect to taking on the cartels operating domestically and trafficking synthetic drugs, the senior DRI officer said, “Busting cartels or factories manufacturing synthetic drugs is challenging because India’s chemical-pharmaceutical industry is quite huge and the monitoring is not rigorous. Drug prepared in factories does not require any state-of-the art equipment or major set up. Ephedrine and mephedrone can be prepared using basic chemicals and equipment as the raw materials required for their preparation are legally available in chemical and pharmaceutical industries.” The data or intelligence sharing is another major problem owing to which drug cartels manage to remain off the radars. “There is a considerable gab in the pace at which data or intelligence is shared among all the stake holders conducting involved in anti-narcotics tasks and the pace at which the cartels run,” the senior DRI officer said. The central government has shown their intent to work in this direction and recently revamped the NCORD (Narco Coordination Centre). The government has also constituted an apex committee under the Union home secretary to support the coordination mechanism under NCORD to enable focused resolution of policy and operational issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/drug-menace-in-mumbai-will-continue-until-agencies-break-the-source-of-supply-chain-say-experts/story-4uetJ8Uo9Gth4swzXWgbLJ.html
16-11-2020||City||Fire breaks out in three commercial buildings in Ambala City on Diwali||A multi-storey building in Ambala City’s narrow alleyway on the Shukul Kund road on Saturday night caught fire that spread to two adjoining buildings, causing huge losses to the owners.As per information, it took seven fire tenders three hours to douse the fire that started at around 9.30pm; smoke continued to billow even on Sunday morning.The owner of the building that dealt in wedding accessories told the reporters that it was difficult to estimate the losses. The fire supposedly started due to firecrackers from the top floor of the accessories shop, and spread to the whole building, market office-bearers said.“The fire was so huge that it extended to adjoining two buildings; one belongs to the relative of the main building’s owner and other is a godown of a shoe seller. The economic losses could be in lakhs,” Krishan Gambhir, president of the wholesale general merchant dealers association said. Station in-charge of Ambala City police station Ram Kumar said, “Various teams are investigating the site to ascertain the cause of the fire. The losses are being estimated too.”Meanwhile, 11 cases were registered under the Explosives Act regarding the use of firecrackers in the district on Saturday and Sunday. The deputy commissioner had announced a blanket ban on the use and sale of explosive items.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fire-breaks-out-in-three-commercial-buildings-in-ambala-city-on-diwali/story-4qQFGdftZHN1SlCjA3lNVO.html
16-11-2020||City||Covid-19 guidelines go up in smoke during Diwali in Thane, Ulhasnagar, noise pollution spikes||While there was a 45-50% reduction in bursting firecrackers as compared to previous years during Diwali in Thane, citizen activist Dr Mahesh Bedekar’s findings show the noise pollution levels still surpassed the permissible limit on Saturday. Ulhasnagar was noisy as well, according to reports.According to Bedekar’s findings for Saturday, residents were seen bursting crackers in large numbers at Upvan lake, Hiranandani Meadows, Hiranandani Estate and around Ghodbunder Road.At 8.30pm, the noise level was 90-95dB (decibels) at Hiranandani Estate. The same level was noted at Upvan lake at 9.45pm.“There were groups of people coming together at Upvan lake to burst crackers. Social distancing norms were not followed as well. For Hiranandani Estate and Meadows, although few noisy crackers were burst, majority of them were created a lot of smoke, causing pollution,” said Bedekar.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had appealed to citizens to not burst crackers, stressing the need to be cautious during the pandemic.Naupada reported a noise level of 65-70dB at 10.30pm. For residential areas, the permissible noise limit is 55dB till 10pm and up to 45dB post 10pm. “The analysis of pollution [due to Diwali firecrackers] will be completed on Tuesday. We will share the findings then,” said Manisha Pradhan, pollution control officer at Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC).Noise activists in Ulhasnagar have alleged that people were bursting crackers till late in Goal Maidan, Bhatia Chowk area, OT Section 3, and Maratha Section.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-guidelines-go-up-in-smoke-during-diwali-in-thane-ulhasnagar-noise-pollution-spikes/story-CsVsgrH1Cp6oxdohbWPHMM.html
16-11-2020||Mumbai||Shirdi Sai Baba temple set to reopen; devotees to present RT-PCR result ahead of entry||With the Maharashtra government allowing the re-opening of religious places, the Sai Baba temple in Shirdi is set to welcome devotees on Monday after seven months of closure due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The temple management told ANI that visitors will be allowed only after making a booking online for a specific time slot. “We are glad that the government has allowed us to open after so many months. Devotees who want to visit will have to do online booking to get a time-slot for the ‘darshan’. Along with this, people will also have to show a Covid-negative RT-PCR result at the gate. Children aged eight to ten won’t be allowed,” a representative of the temple management said. Earlier on Saturday, the Chief Minister’s Office had issued an order for the reopening of religious places in the state from November 16 while maintaining the Covid-19 protocol.As per the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Maharashtra currently has 86,470 active cases. So far, 16,12,314 recoveries and 45,914 deaths have been reported in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/shirdi-sai-baba-temple-set-to-reopen-devotees-to-present-rt-pcr-result-gate/story-cAyvZAY3Sjw3yhpM5VFDdK.html
16-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Smart City Limited refloats tenders for 24x7 water supply project in Manimajra||Having failed to find any takers in previous attempts, the Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) has once again floated tenders for the 24/7 Manimajra water supply project.The work on the project, which was approved in March this year for a budget of ₹162 crore, was expected to begin in September and finish by the end of March 2022. With CSCL failing to even allot the tender, the completion of the project is expected to stretch to at least the end of 2022.In July this year, CSCL had made amendments and allowed joint venture companies to participate in the bidding process. But the tendering process that was restarted in August also didn’t find any takers.What project entailsThe scope of the project entails retrofitting of existing network, laying of new network, including civil, electro-mechanical, instrumentation, smart water metering, SCADA and operation and maintenance for 15 years.A total of 13,700 water connections are planned to be covered under the project. One of the main focus areas will be to reduce water leakage from the existing 50% to 15%.The success of the Manimajra 24/7 water supply project will also majorly impact CSCL’s planned pan-city 24/7 water project, for which CSCL and the municipal corporation are in advanced talks with a French development bank, Agence Française de Développement, for availing a loan of ₹550 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-smart-city-limited-refloats-tenders-for-24x7-water-supply-project-in-manimajra/story-6jY91oGbsHTjBn51QOYJwJ.html
16-11-2020||Mumbai||Likely spike in Covid-19 post Diwali will not result in bed shortage in Mumbai: BMC||As the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is expecting a possible spike in Covid-19 cases post Diwali, it has also maintained that the possible spike post Diwali would not pose a challenge in Covid-19 bed availability in the city.Of more than 14,000 beds available in Covid-19 hospitals, 66% are currently vacant, BMC officials said. In categories like intensive care units (ICU), oxygen and ventilators the vacancy rate is between 30% and 60%. BMC said there will not be any impact on bed availability, and if need arises it can increase the bed capacity depending on the requirement.According to data from BMC’s dashboard, of the 14,456 beds in dedicated Covid-19 hospitals and centres, 9,580 were vacant, as of November 14. In case of ICU beds, of the total 2,003 beds, 803 are available, followed by 5,987 oxygen beds of total 8,689 oxygen beds and 373 ventilators of 1,183 ventilators.After the Covid-19 outbreak, BMC had come under criticism due to non-availability of beds. To deal with this, starting June, BMC created 24 mini control ward war rooms to regulate the allocation of beds rather than having a single centralised bed allocation control room.Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner of BMC, said, “The 14-day cycle after Diwali is crucial, and there may be surge up to some extent. But bed availability will not be an issue and citizens don’t need to worry about it. However, they need to be cautious and take precautions to control further spread.”However, with daily case load going down, several hospitals and nursing homes requested to bring down the cap and reduce Covid-19 beds, but BMC has not allowed the same yet.BMC had also decided to put several temporary Covid-19 centres on standby or shut them owing to the case load going down. But the state Covid-19 task force has warned against permanently closing down such centres fearing second wave.Dr Kedar Toraskar, a member of the Covid-19 task force, said, “We understand that daily operations of these centres can be a costly affair but we don’t have to shut them. Instead put them on standby wherein they can be activated anytime in case of any spike in coming days.”On Sunday, the city reported 577 cases, taking the tally to 269,710, and 15 deaths were reported, taking the toll to 10,573. Further, 244,843 patients have been discharged in Mumbai. The city’s discharge rate is 90.78%. There are 13,532 active cases in Mumbai and the fatality rate is 3.92%. Dharavi recorded only one new case on Sunday and the tally is 3,620 of which 3,282 have been discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/likely-spike-in-covid-19-post-diwali-will-not-result-in-bed-shortage-in-mumbai-bmc/story-QTFyHHDQCTPxOt82hS4Z1L.html
16-11-2020||Noida||Noida’s air quality dips to ‘severe’ day after Diwali||Noida: With Noida seeing one of the most polluted Diwali and post-Diwali air in the past three years, primarily due to the weather conditions and local emissions, the light rain on Sunday and strong wind may improve the air quality on Monday. The air quality of Noida and Greater Noida dipped to “severe” on Diwali, November 14, and further dipped the next day due to the considerable rise in the pollutants. However, the arrival of the western disturbance -- a weather phenomenon originating over the Mediterranean-- led to light rain between 4 to 5 pm on Sunday. The additional effect of south-westerly winds led to the ventilation and thereby improving air. “Noida and adjoining areas had around 1mm rainfall. The wind speed also increased to about 22 kmph by around Sunday evening. There is very low chance of rain on Monday, but the south-westerly winds will continue although it will be comparatively slower,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, India Meteorological Centre (IMD). He added that weather conditions for better ventilation and thereby dispersion of the pollutants are likely to continue for next two days on Monday and Tuesday. According to the central pollution control board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on Sunday was 441 against 425 a day earlier (on Diwali) and 337 on the eve of Diwali. The AQI of Greater Noida was 417 against 394 on Diwali and 336 on Diwali’s eve. Last year, the AQI of Noida, a day after Diwali (October 28) was 397, while in Greater Noida it was 375. In 2018, the AQI of Noida, a day after Diwali November 8) was 432, while that for Greater Noida it was 410. The AQI above 400 is considered severe, while that between 301 and 400 is considered ‘very-poor’. The region also saw high pollution levels with PM2.5 for past 24-hours in Noida increased to 391.71 microgrammes per cubic metres (µg/m³) against 319.94µg/m³ a day earlier. The PM2.5 for Greater Noida for also increased to 316.47 µg/m³ on Sunday against 269.89µg/m³ a day earlier. However, the AQI of Noida areas showed improvement as the wind speed increased following light showers. The AQI at sector-125, at 4 pm on Sunday was recorded at 443 which dipped to 431 by 8pm. The AQI at sector-62 was 454 at 4 pm that dropped to 435 by 8 pm. The AQI for sector-1 was 447 at 4pm dropping to 425 by 8pm and AQI sector-116 was 438 which dropped to 419 by 8pm, according to the data obtained by CPCB. According to the System of air quality and weather forecasting and research (SAFAR), the AQI may improve further if the weather conditions remained positive. “The AQI is likely to start improving from the afternoon and make AQI in the lower end of very-poor on 16th November. It may touch the poor category in case of enough rains and washout. AQI is forecasted to stay in the middle-end of the Very Poor category on 17th and 18th November,” said a statement by Safar on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-s-air-quality-dips-to-severe-day-after-diwali/story-E3kJyMbBAqUpZKvmm3rKSM.html
16-11-2020||Chandigarh||Two women held for house theft in Chandigarh’s Sector 21||The operation cell of the Chandigarh Police arrested two women on Friday for allegedly committing house theft and stealing valuables worth ₹10 lakh from a house in Sector 21 on November 11.As per police, complainant Gitika Sharma of Sector 21 had gone to Karnal on October 31 and her husband was in the USA, and their neighbour had the key for the maid.On November 11, the neighbour noticed that the locks of the house were broken. Sharma told the police that her gold chain, ear rings, silver utensils, watches, 20-30 pairs of imported shoes, ₹40,000-₹50,000 in cash, imported cosmetics, perfumes, two televisions, and new clothes had been stolen.On November 13, the police laid a naka near Dadumajra market and the accused, Seeto, 55, of Dadumajra and Rani, 30, were arrested. They were presented in court on Saturday and sent to two-day police remand. Items worth ₹10 lakh have already been recovered from them.Police said Rani was a history-sheeter and there were six cases of theft registered against her in 2012.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-women-held-for-house-theft-in-chandigarh-s-sector-21/story-ODFUAULoZJOUhYi7hwjZHK.html
16-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s air post Diwali second-best in six years: SAFAR report||Despite the use of firecrackers on Saturday in parts of Mumbai, hotter temperatures and faster winds kept the air quality in check on Sunday, making it the second-cleanest post-Diwali day air since monitoring began in 2015, the System Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) under the Ministry of Earth Sciences said.SAFAR had on Thursday predicted that Mumbai may witness its worst post-Diwali air quality since 2015 with a 50% firecracker emissions scenario on Diwali day. However, on Saturday, as Mumbai recorded its hottest day temperature of the season (36 degrees Celsius), SAFAR revised its forecast, predicting marginally lower air pollution after Diwali.“Mumbai’s air quality a day after Diwali was found to be better than the forecast made (considering 50% of the average firecracker emissions of past years [2016-2018]). The air quality index (AQI) was in the moderate category. However, there was close to 0% firecracker emission scenario (between Saturday and Sunday). This tends to suggest that there were negligible local additional fire emissions,” read SAFAR’s Diwali 2020 air quality report released on Sunday. Also read: Change in weather factors may keep air pollution lower than expected in Mumbai post-Diwali: SAFARIt further said that sudden change in weather (winds from the sea at relatively faster speed) and probability of negligible firecracker emissions in Mumbai “worked positively to keep air quality in check”. “This was the best AQI post Diwali day in the past six years if the 2019 cyclone year is excluded,” said Gufran Beig, project director, SAFAR.According to SAFAR, the AQI was recorded at 90 (satisfactory) on Saturday, which increased to 107 (moderate) on Sunday. However, by Sunday late evening, fireworks were burst across some areas. The AQI worsened to 115 (moderate) with a thin layer of haze across the skyline.Last year, Mumbai recorded its cleanest air since monitoring began (during Diwali) as the AQI was as low as 75 (satisfactory) on Diwali (October 27, 2019) and 104 (moderate) a day after Diwali owing to fast winds under the influence of Cyclone Kyarr in the Arabian Sea.Also read: Mumbai: BMC bans bursting of firecrackers except on Diwali eveningIn 2018, the AQI was 221 (poor) on Diwali (November 7, 2018) and 305 (very poor) a day after Diwali. In 2017, the AQI was 204 (poor) on Diwali (October 19, 2017), and 319 (very poor) a day after. In 2016, it was 278 (poor) on Diwali (October 30, 2016), and 315 (very poor) the day after, and in 2015, it was 279 (poor) on Diwali (November 11), and 313 (very poor) the next day.According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), Mumbai’s AQI on Sunday was 148 (moderate) based on the average of data from 15 monitoring stations.This year, Mumbai had the best Diwali and post-Diwali air quality among four cities —Delhi (severe), Pune (very poor), and Ahmedabad (poor) —where SAFAR monitors air. In Mumbai, the concentration of PM2.5 (fine pollutant particles that can easily enter the lungs and cause health ailments) was 54 micrograms per cubic metre (μg/m3) on Saturday and 62 μg/m3 on Sunday against the safe limit of 60 μg/m3 for 24 hours.The highest PM2.5 levels in Mumbai were recorded between 11pm Saturday and 4am Sunday. Chembur was the most polluted area during this period with an AQI of 257 (poor), followed by Andheri 133 (moderate), while Bhandup had the cleanest air in the city at 73 (satisfactory).Also read: Mumbai: BMC forms squads to monitor Covid-19 guidelines violations around DiwaliThe Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said they received around 50 complaints for excessive cracker bursting on Saturday. “While fireworks were used mostly in residential areas between 8pm and 10pm, there was a significant reduction in the number of complaints received by us compared to previous years,” said Tanaji Kamble, spokesperson, BMC.An independent analysis of hourly particulate matter (PM2.5) concentration by city-based air quality researchers Respirer Living Sciences (RLS) Pvt. Ltd. revealed that fireworks in Mumbai started around 7.30pm with most neighbourhoods reaching their peak levels (worst air quality) around 10pm. “Our assessment showed that of 14 locations real-time air quality is monitored, the area around Sanjay Gandhi National Park, Borivli, which indicates the baseline level of the city, had twice as clean air than most parts of the city, while Kalyan reported worst levels at 342 μg/m3,” said Ronak Sutaria, founder and director, RLS.Meanwhile, anti-noise campaigners Awaaz Foundation measured noise pollution during the permissible hours for cracker use on Saturday from 8pm – 10pm and until the next morning, but submitted decibel (db) readings of only one location in its report to the state government on Sunday. Maximum noise levels recorded was 105.5dB and just before the deadline of 10pm at Shivaji Park grounds near a Silence Zone board. The maximum level recorded in 2019 was 112.3 dB; in 2018, it was 114.1 dB and in 2017, it was 117.8 dB. “It was difficult to take measurements throughout the city since, although aerial shots and bombs were audible in parts of Mumbai, they were scattered in private residential societies which were inaccessible,” said Sumaira Abdulali, convener, Awaaz Foundation, adding that she received complaints from Borivali, Worli, Dahisar, Thane, Juhu and Versova. “Considerably fewer firecrackers were burst compared to previous years, but illegal and green crackers were used beyond the 10pm deadline in many areas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-air-post-diwali-second-best-in-six-years-safar-report/story-NijtPXw9JtHcxhrbR5HMtI.html
16-11-2020||Mumbai||Most Metro networks in India have not met projected ridership: Report||Even though the country is investing hugely in laying a Metro network in major cities, most of the Metro networks are not meeting their projected ridership, a recent analysis by the World Resources Institute (WRI)-India has revealed. Mumbai Metro is the only exception on the list of Metros analysed by the organization that has included Jaipur, Kochi, Lucknow and the Hyderabad Metro network. Mumbai has surpassed the projected ridership of around 4.2 lakh. Before the pandemic hit the city, Mumbai Metro had a ridership of 4.5 lakh on weekdays. The analysis, which looks at projected versus the actual ridership of Metro networks, notes that one of the major reasons for this shortfall is lack of first and last mile connectivity to the corridors. First and last mile connectivity refers to the beginning and end of the commuter’s public transport journey; or the ease with which they can access the Metro/railway stations. The data analyzed by WRI shows that Bengaluru’s ‘Namma Metro’ with more than 40km of operational line had a projected ridership of more than 8 lakh trips, but has reached only half the number in 2019. Even Chennai Metro had a projected ridership of close to 6 lakh trips, however, it is close to 1.15 lakh trips per day, the data shows. “This shortfall has been attributed to a lack of comprehensive first-and last-mile solutions to connect homes, offices, and other activity centres with Metro stations,” the WRI analysis read. According to a WRI survey of 2016, 70% of potential commuters in Bengaluru had said that they are not using the Metro owing to poor first and last-mile connectivity. Sudeept Maiti, senior manager at WRI, said, “Apart from access to stations, the overall cost of door-to-door travel along the Metro compared to buses is also a reason for the poor ridership. People may not prefer to take the Metro owing to the transfers and wait time associated with it. Unlike a direct bus, Metro trips in most cases will have at least two transfer points i.e. when transferring from bus/auto to metro and vice versa.” However, the reasons for Mumbai being an exception are multifold. For one, Mumbai Metro, for now, is only a single operational 11.5-km line connecting the three suburbs of Versova, Andheri and Ghatkopar. Subhadeep Bhattacharjee, project associate – sustainable cities and transport program, WRI said, “Mumbai Metro acts as a major connectivity between eastern and western suburbs. People travelling from other cities in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (Thane, Kalyan, Navi Mumbai) can change to Metro at Ghatkopar station and travel till Andheri station, to travel further on the western railway line. Many commercial centres are located along the present Mumbai Metro Line-1 corridor; stations like Sakinaka, Marol Naka, Chakala and Western express highway have high boarding and alighting numbers. Another reason could also be that Mumbai commuters are familiar with multimodal travel.” However, with 337km of metro lines planned in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, of which 180km are currently under construction, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) is planning multimodal integration at each of the upcoming metro stations. RA Rajeev, metropolitan commissioner, MMRDA said, “Each of the upcoming metro stations will have bus bays, auto stands, cycle docks and walking space. Last-mile connectivity is being given the highest priority in Mumbai now.” Before the pandemic hit the city, the Mumbai Metro One Pvt Ltd (MMOPL), which runs the Metro-1 corridor and MMRDA had inaugurated the MyByk services, a public bike-sharing mechanism from the Jagruti Nagar metro station. MMRDA had also recently inaugurated e-bikes in the Bandra Kurla Complex for enhancing connectivity to the suburban Bandra and Kurla stations. “New mobility services make efficient use of technology innovations, such as digital payments and vehicle tracking, to provide convenient last-mile solutions for commuting,” the WRI analysis states. Arjit Soni, founder of MyByk said, “Unless first and last mile connectivity issues are addressed, public transport will continue to be less accessible and inconvenient. Mumbai needs a combination of different new mobility solutions as the demand during peak hours is huge.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/most-metro-networks-in-india-have-not-met-projected-ridership-report/story-7zKkATHiuu9J4ilL4fMGFL.html
16-11-2020||Chandigarh||Partial amalgamation of commercial properties to be allowed in Chandigarh||The UT administration has notified the draft Chandigarh Building Rules (Urban) 2020 to allow partial amalgamation of floors in two adjacent commercial properties owned by different parties but rented out to one tenant.  “The partial amalgamation of floors as temporary arrangement, if the owners of the two adjoining plots are different and both the buildings are rented to one party, entry/opening be allowed for connectivity at each floor,” reads the notification.Amendment in the rules will allow entry and opening at each floor of a building: In shop cum offices and shop cum flats, semi industrial sites, booths and bay shops, the aim being to better utilise internal space in properties for larger retailers and corporate offices.However, the changes can be made only at the discretion of the owners and allowed subject to furnishing of an affidavit by the owners of the commercial properties and a no objection certificate from the UT estate officer.Permissions will be given till the tenancy is applicable.Approvals will also depend on buildings meeting structural stability and other technical feasibilities as laid down in the building bye-laws.Public comments, objections soughtThe administration has sought public comments and objections on the draft notification, which can be accessed by the general public on the official website of the administration: chandigarh.gov.in.Suggestions can be forwarded to the senior town planner, UT Urban Planning Department and through email stputchd@gmail.com within 30 days from the date of the publication of the draft notification.The amended rules, to be called the Chandigarh Building Rules (Urban) Amendments, 2020, will come into force from the date of its publication in the official gazette of the administration. It will primarily amend Rule 5.1 on amalgamation of properties in the Chandigarh Building Rules (Urban) 2017.Notably, in July this year, the administration amended the building rules to allow amalgamation of residential plots with no change in original floor area ratio (FAR). In 10 marla plots, 70% coverage area in both plots was allowed; and in case of one kanal plots, only 50% coverage was allowed. Marla plots got the benefit of excess coverage area which was earlier withheld by the urban planning department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ut-to-allow-partial-amalgamation-of-commercial-properties/story-oKgPy0Bs8CRqVqHBJarrDN.html
16-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai man stabs woman after she ended relationship||Dadar police on Saturday arrested a 28-year-old man for stabbing his former partner after she ended their relationship. Police said the accused stabbed himself after he saw police, and is being treated at Sion hospital.According to police, the victim is identified as Ruchita Hadkar, 25, and the accused is Tejas Khobrekar. In her statement to police, Hadkar’s elder sister Nikita said, “Ruchita and Tejas were in a relationship for four years and were looking to get married. However, she was very upset with Tejas’s alcohol addiction.”The couple allegedly had numerous fights about his alcohol habit and the accused physically assaulted Hadkar on multiple occasions. “She was fed up with his behaviour and decided to move on. She kept ignoring him for the past two months and was not answering his calls,” her statement read.An officer from Dadar police station said, “On November 13, Khobrekar called her and asked to meet him for the last time at Agar Bazar Road, Dadar (West). When she reached there around 11pm, the accused started hitting. Hadkar fled from there but he chased her till Chandrakant Dhuru Wadi Road and pushed her. When she fell on the ground, he pinned her there and started stabbing her with the intent to kill her. She received injuries on her neck and left hand. After attempting to kill her, Khobrekar ran away from the spot.” the officer said.According to police, pedestrians alerted them, and they rushed the woman to KEM Hospital for treatment. Meanwhile, the detection team from Dadar police station started searching for the accused. A police team spotted him near Kirti College, Dadar Chowpatty, and when they were chasing him he started stabbing himself to avoid being arrested. The team managed to nab him, and he was rushed to Sion hospital.A senior officer said, “We have deployed adequate security near his hospital ward. Once he will be discharged we will arrest him for further investigation.”The accused has booked under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-man-stabs-woman-after-she-ended-relationship/story-KqY1XXWTOm841GoWIBvDRK.html
16-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi in battle mode to rein in Covid-19 wave||Delhi will get hundreds of more intensive care unit (ICU) beds for Covid-19 patients, testing for the coronavirus will be doubled, and doctors from central paramilitary forces will be flown in, the government announced following a high-level meeting that on Sunday underscored what numbers have been indicating of late: the Capital is in the grip of an unprecedented wave of infections.The meeting was chaired by Union home minister Amit Shah and attendees included chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, the health ministers of the Centre as well as the state, Delhi’s lieutenant governor and top officials from Niti Aayog, Indian Council of Medical Research and All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).Delhi’s air quality takes a hit post Diwali, dips further into ‘severe’ zoneAmit Shah calls meeting to review spike in cases of Covid-19 in DelhiThe meeting began with a presentation from Niti Aayog’s VK Paul, who described Delhi’s situation as “unprecedented” and “ likely to become worse”, according to an official familiar with the discussions, who spoke on condition of anonymity. Among the worrying details presented was this: on November 11, a day when it reported 48,355 new cases, Delhi recorded 361 cases per million of population, a level not seen before in India, not even in Maharashtra during its worst days. “First, it was decided that the testing capacity for RT-PCR tests would be doubled in Delhi. Labs in Delhi will be utilised to their maximum capacity and wherever the risk of an outbreak is high, mobile testing vans from health ministry and ICMR will be deployed,” Shah said in a series of tweets. ICMR is expected to decide how this can be done by Monday afternoon. Legendary actor Soumitra Chatterjee passes away at 85Experts said that while the decision to increase testing was welcome, authorities will need to focus on speeding up results since people are likely to continue spreading the infection in the time it takes between when their samples are collected and the reporting of results.The minister also said that a decision had been taken to strengthen hospital infrastructure. “It was decided that 250-300 additional beds with ICUs would be added to the existing medical facility of DRDO at Dhaula Kuan... The 10,000-bed Covid Care Centre established at Chhattarpur would also be strengthened with enhanced availability of beds with oxygen capacity,” the home ministry said in a statement.Officials also are believed to have briefly considered the idea of additional restrictions, although no decision on this was taken. “There was nothing discussed on more restrictions, although the home ministry may hold a meeting on the matter,” chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said following the meeting. Manipur CM N Biren Singh tests positive for Covid-19Kejriwal described the lack of ICU beds as the “biggest challenge”. “We have seen that after October 20, cases have really started rising. Hospital beds are in adequate number but ICU beds have been dwindling. The Centre has assured that 500 ICU beds will be added at the DRDO hospital followed by another 250,” he said, adding: “Second big decision was to increase daily tests to over 100,000. ICMR has assured us they will extend facilities. Delhi government’s facilities are at capacity”.As on Sunday evening, of the total 3,524 ICU beds for Covid-19 patients across more than 100 hospitals in Delhi, 3,099 were occupied. Hospitals have particularly been swamped this month, with active cases having risen from a little over 22,000 in mid-October to close to 40,000 on Sunday. HT also learns that a team of senior government officials from the Centre and the state may visit private hospitals to ensure that every available bed is being utilised.The spike has been particularly pronounced due to the festive season. In the week ending October 25, when the city held Dussehra celebrations, there was an average of 3,663 cases every day. As on the middle of last week, this number rose to 7,196. In comparison, the number was 2,627 in the first week of October.Arthritis drug can reduce mortality rate in Covid-19 patients by 71%: Study“It was pointed out that the number of active cases per day has increased substantially. While the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) continues to remain in control, the health and medical infrastructure, such as dedicated Covid-19 beds, beds with ventilators, and ICUs, is already showing signs of strain,” the home ministry statement said. The ministry added that house-to-house surveys will be carried out across Delhi by teams of AIIMS, Delhi government and municipal corporations after which all symptomatic persons people would be tested and provided necessary treatment. People familiar with the development said Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla, health secretary Rajesh Bhushan and Delhi chief secretary Vijay Kumar Dev will meet on Monday to discuss a strategy on containment zones. “With the positivity rate on the rise, there is no other option but to scale up testing to contain the spread of the infection. And, in an ideal world, all the tests would be conducted using RT PCR, which is more sensitive and can pick-up more cases,” said Dr Rajinder K Dhamija, professor of medicine and head of the department of neurology at Lady Hardinge Medical College.Doubling RT-PCR tests to mobile testing vans: Amit Shah announces steps to curb Covid-19 surge in Delhi“If there is a delay, it has to be ensured that anyone who undergoes the test -- and you undergo the test only if there is some suspicion -- remains in quarantine till they get the results to limit transmission of the infection. And, it is the responsibility of the government and the people,” Dr Dhamija added. The Centre also decided to rush additional doctors and para-medical staff from central paramilitary forces, who will be airlifted to Delhi from other parts of the country. The Union government also directed some hospitals of the three municipal corporations of Delhi – which do not fall under the Delhi government -- will be turned into dedicated Covid-19 hospitals to treat patients with mild symptoms. Subsequently, teams comprising officials from various departments will visit the private hospitals across Delhi to inspect the availability of medical infrastructure, beds, admission of patients and to assess if the decisions taken earlier are being implemented or not. There will also be new protocols prepared for plasma donation and providing plasma to critical patients. A high level committee with Niti Aayog’s Paul, AIIMS director Randeep Guleria and ICMR’s head Balram Bhargava will soon submit a report in this regard. “The containment measures taken previously like establishment of containment zones, contract tracing and quarantine and screening will also be reassessed,” Shah said in his tweets, before adding: “Prevention is the only solution to coronavirus; hence Delhi needs to have a robust communication awareness program to inform people about Covid-19 behaviour and negative aspects of the pandemic,” Shah tweeted. The home minister also suggested that the Delhi CM consult the three mayors in the city for better Covid management. Later in the day, Kejriwal tweeted: “Delhi has shown before that we can overcome corona when we all work together. Centre, state government, DRDO, ICMR will double their efforts n work together but we need support from all delhites. We can’t afford to be careless. We need all citizens to help by taking all precautions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-in-battle-mode-to-rein-in-covid-19-wave/story-6tNd5wEHx5f8O9MUI0TQmI.html
16-11-2020||City||DU postpones special cut off, spot admission in entrance based courses||New Delhi:The Delhi University (DU) on Sunday postponed the announcement of a special cut-off list scheduled to be released on November 18 for admission to undergraduate courses after several university officials got affected by the coronavirus infection. The university has also postponed spot admissions to entrance based undergraduate courses till further order.In a statement issued on Sunday, DU registrar Vikas Gupta said, “Many of the university departments and officials have been affected by Covid-19. Due to this, spot admission to undergraduate entrance based courses and special cut off got undergraduate merit based courses have been deferred till further notice.”The university has already enrolled over 65,000 students under the five cut off lists for merit based courses and three lists of selected candidates for the entrance based courses. A special cut off was scheduled to fill the remaining seats in merit based courses on November 18.Similarly, a special admission drive or spot admission for the remaining seats in entrance based courses was to be conducted on November 19. DU conducts entrance exams for admission to nine undergraduate course. Meanwhile, the university will display vacant seats in each course on its official website on Wednesday. “As announced earlier, the University of Delhi shall display the course wise and category wise vacant seats in each college on 18th November, 2020,” the registrar said in the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/du-postpones-special-cut-off-spot-admission-in-entrance-based-courses/story-Z4JWEb88sTu1TM6ImN8oqK.html
16-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s South civic body approves policy for movie shoots||In order to boost its revenues, the cash-strapped South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has approved a policy to allow film shooting under its jurisdiction. The policy suggests that filmmakers will have to seek permission for shooting and will also have to pay prescribed fee ranging from Rs 25,000 to Rs 75,000 per day depending on shooting locations.According to SDMC officials, at present, there is no policy for granting permission to film shooting under the areas of SDMC.“NDMC issues permission for shooting in areas under its jurisdiction on payment of a fee of Rs 2 lakh per day. When one civic body can charge for film shooting then why can’t we? This policy will not only bolster revenue to the corporation but also help filmmakers in conducting hassle free shooting. If they obtain permission before shooting then no one be it police or civic body will trouble them,” a senior SDMC official said.Anamika Mithilesh, mayor SDMC, said that the policy has a potential for generating the revenue as well as to bring showcase tourist friendly locations under south civic body before the public through electronic medium which include TV serials, films, documentaries among others.“Area under SDMC is dotted with myriad number of sites of historical importance, which are ideal for film shooting. In many Bollywood films, scenes have been shot at different locations in South Delhi such as like Humayun’s Tomb, Nizamuddin Dargah, Qutab Minar, Lotus Temple, Tughlakabad Fort and Vasant Kunj Malls, etc. Other than these historical sites, we have more locations such as Waste to Wonder Park, Garden of Five Senses, upcoming Bharat Darshan Park, business hubs and bustling markets which are appropriate for film shooting,” she said.She said that the policy will be sent to SDMC House later this month for final approval and then it is likely to be implemented by December end.SDMC officials said that as compared to NDMC, the shooting permission fee is nominal.As per the policy document accessed by HT, filmmakers will have to pay Rs 50,000 per day in premises of ASI monuments and parks falling under the jurisdiction of SDMC. They will have to shell out Rs 75,000 per day for shooting at other promises such as SDMC heritage buildings, private properties like malls, hotels, motels, streets and open areas which also include markets.Other than this, filmmakers will also have to pay a security amount of Rs 25,000 per day which may be refunded after the shoot.As per the policy, the SDMC commissioner will have the right to modify prescribed rates, if required.The filmmaker will have to apply online to the office of additional commissioner (IT) along with the necessary documents and requisite security and permission fee. The permission will be issued within three days of application, an SDMC official said.Ravi Sarin, line producer, who facilitates film producers and directors to shoot in Delhi, described the policy as a good move and said that it would help do away with unnecessary hurdles during the shoot.He, however, said that the permission fee has to be reasonable. “Filmmakers now don’t prefer much to shoot in NDMC area because they charge Rs 2 lakh/day which is quite high. In SDMC’s case the maximum amount is Rs 75,000 for a day’s shoot which is not much for a film shooting. Getting a proper shooting permission from the civic body will also make the process hassle free as filmmakers will not have to pay additional money to local authorities for hurdles during the shoot.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sdmc-approves-movie-shooting-policy/story-fhKbTjTUyfM36XKJB9YX4H.html
16-11-2020||Delhi||850 held for flouting curbs, 1.2k cases filed||Despite a blanket ban on bursting all forms of firecrackers in the capital, fireworks were seen in different parts of the city on Diwali with the city police registering 1,206 cases on Saturday for sale and use of crackers and arresting/detaining 850 people for violating the government orders.Data provided by the police shows that the number of people booked and held for selling and bursting firecrackers on Diwali night and in the days preceding it far outnumbered cases last year when there was a ban only on non-green firecrackers.On Diwali day and days preceding it, the police registered a total of 1,292 cases and held 926 people. In contrast, last Diwali season, the police had registered 433 cases and arrested 261 people.The outer-north police district reported the most number of cases (165) and the highest number of people, 165, were apprehended from there, said police officers.This year, the sale and bursting of PESO-certified firecrackers was initially allowed in Delhi and there was a ban only on other polluting firecrackers. So, the Delhi Police had issued licences to 167 shops to sell firecrackers by November 4.But the Delhi government on November 5 banned bursting of all firecrackers. Following this, the Delhi Police revoked all the licences on November 8.But firecrackers continued to be sold in the neighbouring towns of the National Capital Region until November 9 when the National Green Tribunal (NGT) banned firecrackers across cities and towns where air quality was categorised as “poor”. These included the NCR towns as well.A senior Delhi Police officer said that it was too late by the time the Delhi government and NGT bans were announced. “A lot of firecrackers were already sold legally before the NGT imposed the ban. So, many people had already purchased firecrackers,” said a senior officer.The officer also said many Delhiites who burst crackers on Diwali night had bought them from neighbouring cities. This was despite the police’s repeated assertions that they were carrying out checks at borders to prevent people from bringing in firecrackers into Delhi.“We carried out random checks of vehicles, the way we do to prevent smuggling of illicit liquor, but it was not practically possible to search each and every vehicle,” said the officer.The seizure of firecrackers was much lesser this year compared to the previous year. This time, 4,725 kilos of firecrackers were seized compared to 9,758 kilos last year.The maximum amount was seized from outer district where the police found 286 kilos of firecrackers.The police said that many bursted crackers from their terrace or balconies to evade police action. “We had an active presence on the streets, but there is only so much you can do about people bursting crackers in their buildings,” said another police officer.Unlike last year, when the police shared a break-up of the cases and arrests made separately for bursting and selling firecrackers, this time the police only shared a combined data for Diwali night.The number of cases registered included FIRs as well as Kalandara notices to people caught bursting firecrackers. The police explained that a Kalandara notice sent under CrPc section 107 is a legal action that does not include an FIR, but a report is sent to court about the offence and the offender.While a person against whom a Kalandara notice is sent does not need to apply for bail, he or she has to appear before a court.The police did not specify how many people it registered FIRs against and how many received a Kalandara notice.The police also did not specify how many people it arrested formally and how many were “boundown”. While a person who has been arrested needs to seek bail from the court, those boundown are let off from police station after taking assurances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1206-case-registered-for-bursting-crackers-on-diwali-850-people-held/story-2lQKkR1Ms66kuHCb7LE93M.html
16-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s Covid-19 test positivity rate 15.3 %, highest in 140 days||The Capital reported 3,235 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Diwali, as per Sunday’s health bulletin, a dip in infections that came on a day when testing fell to a 76-day low, even as the state battles a third wave of the pandemic that has seen deaths and hospital admissions rise sharply.In a matter of continuing concern, the positivity rate on Saturday soared to a 140-day high.While new infections dipped to their lowest since October 26, this only happened because daily tests saw a massive drop and fell to 21,098, the lowest since August 31. In contrast, Delhi had been conducting an average of around 54,000 tests a day in the week before Diwali.The positivity rate, meanwhile, continued to rise as it touched 15.33% on Saturday — the highest since 15.37% on June 27, indicating that if the government had maintained a regular testing number, the cases would have been significantly higher.Further, only around 9,000 of the tests on Diwali day were conducted using the more accurate RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) method.The positivity rate — the number of positive cases among total tests — usually goes up with increase in the number of RT PCR as it is a more sensitive test that can pick more positive cases as compared to its alternative rapid antigen test.Experts see positivity rate as a crucial metric to assess an outbreak in a community and, when this number is coupled with an increase in new cases, it can determine how fast a contagious disease is spreading.According to recommendations by the World Health Organization (WHO), the positivity rate from a region that has a comprehensive testing programme should be at or below 5% for at least two weeks before an outbreak is considered under controlExperts have attributed the current exponential rise in cases to the festive season, hazardous pollution levels, as well as the dip in temperatures.“The number of cases is likely to remain high for at least two more weeks after Diwali, with people being out and about aiding the spread of the infection. It is also known that the low temperatures and high levels of pollution leads to increase in respiratory infections including Covid-19; this might lead to more infections in the coming time,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital.Concerns remain over the ability of the city’s health infrastructure to handle the severe Covid-19 caseload.With over 8,700 people with the infection hospitalised across the city, facilities too are fast running out of intensive care unit (ICU) beds. Over 87% of the 3,542 ICU beds earmarked for the treatment of the Covid-19 patients across hospitals were occupied as on Sunday evening, as per data on the Delhi Corona app. Over 53% of all Covid-19 beds were occupied, as per the app.The number of available ICU beds are likely to go up, however, with the Delhi high court allowing the government to reserve 80% of the total ICU capacity in 33 big private hospitals.“Even as more are being opened up for Covid-19 patients,they are filling up fast. If the number of cases continues to go up further, there will be a problem,” said Dr Vikas Maurya, director, department of pulmonology and sleep disorders at Fortis Hospital, Shalimar Bagh.On Sunday, the city also recorded 95 deaths due to the infection, taking the total toll to 7,614. Earlier this week,the city had seen the highest single day mortality of 104 deaths in a day, higher than the 101 recorded during the June-July surge, when protocols for treatment were still being developed.“If the hospitals are overwhelmed and the beds get exhausted, naturally the mortality of the disease will go up. People who are in need of ICU care or oxygen support need it in a timely manner. Also, if we look at Covid-19 cases, most people are preferring to stay in home isolation. These days people also have the oxygen saturation monitors at home. So, chances are those who reach the hospitals are in need of immediate medical attention. If they do not get it, they are likely to die,” said Dr Shobha Broor, former head of the department of virology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-positivity-rate-in-delhi-at-140-day-high/story-0oym42Bka8v1d4dOASy5xJ.html
16-11-2020||Delhi||Parents in debt, out of work, school kids in city forced into child labour||Prolonged closure of schools and job loss due to the lockdown enforced to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has pushed a lot of students from the economically weaker section into child labour, NGOs working for child rights and attendance data from online classes suggest.With classes being shifted online, education has taken a back-seat for the majority of these children who do not have access to electronic devices and the internet. Most of these children who live in slums and working class neighbourhoods are now working full-time to support their families.A joint report published by the Unicef and International Labour Organization (ILO) on June 12, had said that the Child labour has declined by 94 million since 2000, but job losses and rising poverty because of the lockdown and sickness is likely to force more children to seek exploitative and hazardous jobs as families use every available means to earn some money and survive.A 10-year-old class 4 student at a municipal school in Seelampur, has been engaged by her mother to peel electric wires with a sharp knife at her rented one-room house. “My mother gets these wires from a nearby factory and we get ₹5 per kg for peeling them. We did not get any work for months due to coronavirus lockdown. My father, who works in a factory, also did not earn anything for months. Mother says we have a debt to pay. She asked us to work faster and help her peeling at least 20 Kg wire a day to make good money,” she said.They first burn the wire to melt it and then separate the copper and plastic using a sharp knife. Acknowledging that it is dangerous work for a 10-year-old, her mother said, “We remained out of work for months and bought the regular ration on credit from the local shops here. I have to pay that back and for that, we need to earn more. I would not have taken their help if the schools were open. But now they are home the whole day and we do not have a smartphone for online classes. Her teacher calls every week and then I send her to school to get the homework.”A few kilometers away in Geeta Colony, a 12-year-old girl has been working as a domestic help to support her family. Her mother, who was working in a local condiment factory, and brother who was employed in a jeans manufacturing unit lost their jobs during the lockdown. Her father does not work due to his failing health. “After losing her job, my mother started working as a cleaner in a temple. She later started working in some households. She was earning only Rs 3,000, and it was difficult for her to support the family of eight. She then employed me as a maid in two households. I clean the house and also wash the utensils,” she said.The girl, a class 7 student at a government school in Gandhi Nagar, said that she studies during the nights. “We have one phone at home and six of us study using that only. My turn of using the phone comes in the end. So I try to study for some hours before I go to bed,” she said.According to NGO CHETNA (Childhood Enhancement Through Training and Action), at least 55% or 325 of the 586 children in their contact in east and north-east districts of Delhi have been engaged in some sort of work ever since the schools have been shut in view of the pandemic.Most of them are engaged in waste picking, domestic work, selling vegetables, fruits, or other items with parents, and cutting threads from readymade garments and peeling wires, among other works.A class 4 student who goes to dump yards in Dilshad Garden’s Qalandar Colony to collect scrap, said, “I earn Rs 40-50 every day by selling plastic scrap. Both my brother and I use the money to feed ourselves.” His mother, who also collects and sells scrap, said, “Earlier, they would get at least one meal from the school. I am the sole earner and with my meagre income of around ₹100-150 a day how do I provide food to them multiple times? We have received money for mid-day meals in their accounts only till June and nothing after that.”The central government’s mid-day meal programme has also been disrupted by the pandemic. The scheme is run through state governments. Officials at the Directorate of Education (DoE) said that as per the new directions from the central government, students will now be given dry ration instead of allowance. “We have already procured dry ration for students. They will be given wheat, dal, rice, oil among other items with effect from July. We will soon start distributing the kits through schools,” said a senior DoE official.In north Delhi’s Majnu Ka Tilla area, a class 6 student at a government school has been selling fruits on a cart to support his family. His father, who drives an e-rickshaw in the locality, said, “I had no work for months and had to borrow money to feed my children. In order to pay back the money, I have rented out this cart for my son to sell fruits till his school reopens. He anyway cannot study during the day because I have to carry the only phone we have to work.”Sanjay Gupta, director of CHETNA, said, “Every year NGOs like ours motivate thousands of children to get admission in government schools so that they can study, get a mid-day meal, and have constructive engagement. But the closure of schools has pushed children back to work due to the poor financial condition of their families. We request authorities to provide means for online education, creatively think about how mid-day meals can still be provided, provide education and recreational material, and most importantly do an assessment of how many children have been pushed to work or migrated.”Amrita Johri of NGO Delhi Rozi Roti Adhikar Abhiyan said they are going to hold a public hearing by the end of this month to highlight issues faced by the low-income families of Delhi amid the pandemic, including the vulnerable children.Officials at the DoE and municipal corporations said that schools have been asked to track each and every student who is not attending online classes.An official at Delhi government’s education department, who wished not to be named, said, “Our teachers are in regular touch with the children and their parents. In some cases, teachers even visited the houses of irregular students. The majority of the students are in touch with the schools and are either attending the online classes or collecting assignment sheets or worksheets from their schools. There is a possibility that some of them might be working to support their families along with that. The schools will be asked to identify such kids and counsel their families.”The Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) said that it has started the process of tracking students who are not attending online classes regularly. Anurag Kundu, chairperson of DCPCR, said, “We have set up teams which are visiting homes, tracking these children since the last week of October. We have decided to hold a fortnightly review meeting,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/closure-of-schools-job-loss-push-ews-students-into-child-labour/story-sehfYAYuDSGhHSJR6bfRpN.html
16-11-2020||Delhi||205 calls reporting fires on Diwali day||A 28-year-old man was charred to death and his colleague injured inside an air-cooler godown in outer Delhi’s Mundka on Saturday night, when the fire department reported 205 calls regarding blazes in the national capital on Diwali day. Despite a blanket ban on firecrackers this year — with fire department officials saying they anticipated much fewer calls — the number of fire incidents went down only marginally compared to 2019, when it received 245 calls. Of the last 13 years for which data of Diwali day was available, there were five instances when the department received fewer fire calls.Of the 205 calls, 129 were received during peak hours, between 6pm and midnight, Delhi Fire Services (DFS) officers said. Atul Garg, director, Delhi Fire Services, said that this year saw a large number of fire incidents being reported from garbage-dumping grounds. “This time, there were 71 calls from garbage spots. This is a big number as we usually never receive more than 50 such calls from these areas,” Garg said. “It is possible that people were bursting firecrackers at isolated spots away from their homes to avoid getting caught by authorities, and empty plots and garbage-dumping grounds are often the areas of choice in such cases,” he said.The fire department said despite anticipating fewer fire incidents this Diwali, they hadn’t lowered their guard. “Apart from our 63 permanent fire stations, we had deployed fire tenders at 26 temporary spots. Last year we had deployed them at 21 such spots,” Garg said. While no firefighters were injured during the day, the cooler factory fire in Mundka left one man, Sunil Kumar, dead and a 20-year-old man, Aditya, injured. This particular blaze, though, was due a leak in a cooking gas cylinder rather than due to Diwali festivities. A Koan, deputy commissioner of police (outer district), said there were 11 workers inside the godown when the fire broke out around 11.30pm. “While nine workers managed to escape unhurt, Kumar was charred to death and Aditya received 20% burns,” he said. The police have registered a case of causing death due to negligence, Koan added. Apart from the fatal fire, a restaurant, which was shut on Saturday, went up in flames in Keshavpuram. Garg said the fire broke out to due to a candle lit outside the restaurant. “We controlled the fire soon, but the restaurant was destroyed and a car parked outside was partially burnt,” said Garg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-charred-to-death-in-factory-blaze-on-diwali-fire-services-receive-205-calls/story-Q6qhA0DjBL0LmdnusOYlpM.html
16-11-2020||City||Ludhiana: Residents flout cracker time limit with impunity||Despite restrictions on bursting crackers after 10pm, city residents did not give two hoots to the police commissioner’s orders and carried on with the fireworks till about 2am in several parts of the city on Diwali night.This even as the police control room (PCR) was flooded with complaints from concerned residents. As per information, at least 250 complaints regarding the bursting of crackers beyond the permitted time (8pm to 10pm) were received on Saturday night but the police have registered only eight FIRs, against unidentified persons, so far. Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said patrolling parties have lodged FIRs against the violators in New Shivpuri, Baba Than Singh Chowk, Dehlon area, Sua Road and Overlock Road.The cases have been registered under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) on the basis of complaints filed by patrolling parties and officers of duty at the police stations concerned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-residents-flout-cracker-time-limit-with-impunity/story-yW8ZBygOTTNSvmOcf6ucKP.html
16-11-2020||Mumbai||Pregnant leopard killed road accident on Mumbai’s Western Express Highway||A female leopard identified as L98 was found grievously injured in a road accident near Delhi Darbar Inn on the Western Express Highway near Kashimira area at Mira Road.around 12.30am on Sunday and subsequently succumbed to her injuries. The leopard, aged between three and four years, was one-month pregnant, carrying three unborn cubs, said forest officials.According to Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) director and conservator of forest, the injured leopard was rescued by the SGNP rescue team and brought to the park’s leopard rescue centre. “However, the leopard succumbed to its injuries during treatment at 2.15am. A post mortem was conducted by a team of veterinarians at SGNP on Sunday afternoon, during which the leopard was found to be pregnant with three foetuses,” said Mallikarjuna.The post mortem revealed that the cause of death was probably due to a vehicular collision. “It was due to strong mechanical impact [probably vehicular origin] causing multiple haemorrhages, multiple fractures, and muscular damage, resulting in hypovolemia [life threatening condition due to high blood loss] and respiratory arrest,” added Mallikarjuna.Nikit Surve, wildlife biologist from Wildlife Conservation Society, who has been annually assessing leopard numbers in and around SGNP, said L98 was first photographed in October 2018 at Ghodbunder village after residents had spotted the animal. “Early last year, the leopard was spotted on the opposite side of the road near Kashi Mira, Bhayander, which showed that she had successfully crossed. Also, just about seven days ago, the leopard was spotted in one of our camera traps near Kashi Mira. However, it is extremely unfortunate that she met with the accident, probably while crossing the road on Sunday because it is not easy for animals to understand oncoming traffic. It is even more disheartening that she was pregnant,” said Surve, adding that leopards do not stop hunting or movement till the moment they stop to give birth.Dr Shaliesh Pethe, senior veterinarian, SGNP, said the gestation period for a leopard is three months. “This leopard was one-month pregnant. Externally one can identify that a leopard is pregnant only within the last 15 days before she delivers,” he said.SGNP and peripheral areas are home to at least 47 big cats that include the transient population moving between SGNP into surrounding landscapes, according to a 2019 estimation by Surve and SGNP. Data from SGNP, NGO Wildlife Protection Society of India (WPSI) and Mumbaikars for SGNP revealed that 19 leopards had been killed around SGNP, most of them on the Western Express Highway and Tungareshwar Wildlife Sanctuary (TWS), from 2008 to 2018. “Unless we provide adequate mitigation structures [under or overpasses] on roads, railways and canals, we will lose most of our large mammals to linear infrastructure very rapidly,” said Anish Andheria, president, Wildlife Conservation Trust.An earlier assessment under the Mumbaikars for SGNP initiative in 2013 revealed that 40 leopards died in road accidents along the periphery of SGNP from 1994 to 2012.“Over the last two years, accident cases with animals have reduced as road widening work is underway on the WEH. Owing to less traffic during Diwali, vehicles were moving at a faster speed that probably led to this unfortunate incident. However, we have suggested several mitigation measures along this route, and we are trying to expedite their construction with project proponents as early as possible,” said Mallikarjuna.TWO LEOPARD DEATHS DUE TO ROAD ACCIDENTS IN MAHA DURING DIWALI PERIODAnother leopard was killed in a road accident on Saturday near Satara on the National Highway 4 that connects Pune and Bengaluru. The country recorded 83 leopard deaths in train and road accidents in 2019, the highest in a decade, according to the Wildlife Protection Society of India. Of these, 73 were killed in road accidents, and 10 were run over by trains. Also, there had been a 278% rise in such deaths due to road and rail accidents from 2010 to 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pregnant-leopard-killed-road-accident-on-mumbai-s-western-express-highway/story-QLpsmvC5hjnuxiWrDQ3GpI.html
16-11-2020||Gurugram||21 villages opposed to MCG takeover to be included under the proposed Manesar civic body||Around 21 of the 39 villages of the district, which were originally proposed to be included under the jurisdiction of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), will now be included under the proposed Municipal Corporation of Manesar (MCM),revealed official documents of the MCG.The 39 villages have been protesting against the MCG’s decision of bringing them within its jurisdictional limits — the decision regarding which was taken during a meeting on August 22. Some of the prominent villages, which have been protesting against the civic body’s decision, include Bajghera, Daultabad, Dhankot, Gopalpur, Wazirpur, Hayatpur, Nakhrola, Mewka, Rampura, Shikohpur, Naurangpur, Palra, Bhondsi, Dhumaspur, Maidawas, Ullawas, Kadarpur, Behrampur, Nayagaon, Manesar, Kasan, Naharpur Kasan, Kankrola, Bhangrola and Bar-gujjar, among others. These villages have been protesting against being included under the MCG, citing a preference of continuing to operate under the existing panchayati raj system.The internal MCG order issued by RK Singh, chief town planner, on behalf of MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh to the civic body’s taxation department on Friday, stated that the proposed MCM will comprise 27 villages, including the 21 villages that were earlier proposed to be included under MCG’s ambit.The 21 villages include areas such as Manesar, Kasan, Khoh, Naharpur Kasan, Nawada Fatehpur, Dhana, Baskusla, Bas Haria, Kankrola, Bhangrola, Dhorka, Wazirpur, Badha, Sikanderpur Badha, Shikohpur, Nakhrola, Bar-Gujjar, and Hayatpur, among others. In the order, a copy of which is in the possession of Hindustan Times, Vinay Pratap Singh has asked the taxation department for details on the expected income that can be generated from the 21 villages with regards to property tax, electricity charges, and any other civic dues. The details have to be submitted by Monday so that the same can be discussed during an internal MCG meeting on Tuesday. Following the takeover, the MCG had originally anticipated a cumulative expenditure of around ₹30 crore in the 39 villages with regards to civic development as opposed to a cumulative income of around ₹97.5 crore in return.“The meeting on Tuesday would be an internal one. Decisions on finalising the areas along Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway that can come under the jurisdiction of MCM would be taken during the meeting. Other important issues will also be discussed. Essentially, the new Gurugram areas, located between sectors 77 and 93 would come under the ambit of MCM,” said an MCG official privy to the matter.RK Singh, chief town planner, when asked about the matter, declined to comment.“Over the last decade, areas along the Gurugram-Manesar border and Manesar have undergone urbanisation and development. As such, the Haryana government thought of developing a new municipal corporation in Manesar. The MCG is undertaking all necessary steps in aiding for the formation of MCM,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, adding that apart from 21 villages, two more villages, namely Garhi Harsaru and Gopalpur, have been added to the list of villages that will come under the proposed MCM. Sunder Lal Yadav, sarpanch of Sikanderpur Barha and the president of the district sarpanch association, said, “Apart from having a preference for the panchyati raj system, we also did not want to come under the ambit of MCG as we felt that the jurisdictional expansion would result in its resources getting stretched and would hamper civic development in our villages. Due to this reason, we felt that coming under MCM would be far beneficial than MCG. Since its area of jurisdiction is smaller, more attention would be given to the villages coming under it. We are carefully monitoring the developments in the matter but no formal decision has been taken by us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/21-villages-opposed-to-mcg-takeover-to-be-included-under-the-proposed-manesar-civic-body/story-k9DviN2a2blKxMwMxK52UK.html
16-11-2020||Mumbai||BEST to buy 100 new upgraded double-decker buses for Mumbai||The city is likely to get new double-decker buses by next year. In a major upgrade in its fleet, the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) has decided to procure 100 upgraded double-decker buses equipped with advanced features that will make commute smoother and safer for passengers. BEST has floated tenders for procurement of these buses on November 11 which will open on December 7. The new double decker buses will have capacity of around 70 passengers. They will be operated on automated manual transmission and will be BS-VI compliant that aims at reducing pollution. The new fleet will have two-door entrances, rear door and front door, with pneumatic door closers and two staircases provided for smooth movement of passengers as against to one staircase in the double-decker buses at present. Emergency exit doors on the back side of the buses will be equipped with closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras. The buses will also have electronic bus halt destination boards and inter-communication system that will help in communication between bus driver and conductors on both the decks, the officials said. The diesel-operated buses will be procured in 2021 and will be operated majorly on long-distance routes. “The buses will be the upgraded version for the present double-decker buses. The design and features of the buses are finalised by keeping in mind safety and easy access for passengers. Two staircases and two entrances will help in smooth movement of passengers while boarding and alighting,” said a senior BEST official. BEST double-decker buses were introduced in 1937 and gained popularity both among commuters and tourists in Mumbai. With an initial fleet of 141 in 1947-1948, it grew to 882 by 1993. At present, there are only 120 double-decker buses in a fleet of over 3,500 buses operating on seven routes in the city. In 2018, BEST administration had planned to scrap them as they require twice the time for maintenance than a single-decker bus. However, the BEST committee had raised objections. The committee had assured that new double-decker buses will be procured as replacement of scrapped buses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/best-to-buy-100-new-upgraded-double-decker-buses-for-mumbai/story-aI3JKKINfMS7OA8C7beCoO.html
16-11-2020||City||80 families left homeless by blaze at Panchkula’s Saketri slum||Over 200 people were left homeless after a fire broke out at a slum in Saketri village, gutting 80 hutments.While the cause behind the fire could not be established, locals said it could have spread from an unattended kitchen fire.“Around 3pm, we noticed that a hutment had caught fire, which spread to other structures in no time. We heard no blast, so it could not be due to a cylinder,” said a slum dweller.The fire department received a call at 3.16pm, following which 12 water tankers were sent to the spot from Panchkula, Barwala and even Kalka. The last water tanker went in around 6.30pm, so it took nearly four hours to douse the fire.A fire official said the cause of the fire was not known, but it started from one hutment and engulfed all others. “Nearly 225 people living in the slum lost their homes and belongings. But no one was hurt,” he added.Members of the Shirdi Sai Sewa Samaaj donated blankets, tarpaulin sheets, ropes and ration among the affected families.Meanwhile, 12 more fires were reported across Panchkula on Diwali and another two on Sunday. Besides some fodder catching fire at a house in Ramgarh, all other incidents were minor, the fire official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hundreds-left-homeless-by-blaze-at-saketri-slum/story-vxIiiacOuMAkjxiIgFue7L.html
16-11-2020||Chandigarh||168 people contract Covid in Chandigarh, two dead||Covid-19 claimed two lives, while 168 people reported positive in the past two days, pushing the death toll to 248 and case tally to 15,804. The deceased included a 67-year-old man from Sector 41 and a 53-year-old woman from Khuda Lahora. The former was suffering from diabetes, hypertension and acute chronic kidney disease, while the woman was also diagnosed with acute respiratory distress syndrome and metabolic acidosis.As many as 87 patients recovered, including those in home isolation. The city now has 1,088 active cases, while recoveries stand at 14,468. Over 1.22 lakh tests have been conducted so far.One casualty in Mohali, 88 test positive Mohali also confirmed one death and 88 fresh Covid-19 cases. With this, the total fatalities rose to 254 and the case count to 13,574.Among the 88 cases, Mohali (urban) had the most at 57, followed by Kharar with 10, Dhakoli seven, Gharuan five, Lalru three, and Kurali, Banur and Dera Bassi with two cases each.Also, on Sunday, 83 patients were discharged, bringing down the active cases to 1,000. So far, 12,320 patients have recovered from the virus in the district. 63 new cases in PanchkulaWhile there was no Covid death in Panchkula, 63 cases surfaced on Saturday and Sunday, taking the case count to 7,886. Most of the cases were from Panchkula urban, Mansa Devi Complex, Amravati Enclave, Kalka, Pinjore, Shyamtoo and Tipra.There are 455 active cases in the district, 7,314 patients have been discharged and 117 have succumbed to the virus. Over 1 lakh samples have been tested till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/168-people-contract-covid-in-chandigarh-two-dead/story-tUgNI1sWexq1isq6m4N8zL.html
16-11-2020||City||Blast during fuel theft: Well-oiled nexus rampant at 19 dhabas in Dera Bassi, reveals probe||Investigation following the Friday blast at a dhaba in Lalru has revealed that fuel pilferage from oil tankers, in connivance with their drivers, has been rampant at 19 such eateries in Dera Bassi and Lalru for the past two years.As per the investigation, around 100 litres of oil is stolen from one tanker, which can hold up to 1 lakh litres of liquid, and then sold for Rs 5 to Rs 7 cheaper than the current oil price. The stolen fuel is stored in drums of five litres each.Sub-divisional magistrate Kuldeep Bawa, who is conducting a magisterial probe into the Friday blast that killed four, said they will be raiding the dhabas and work in collaboration with oil companies to rein in fuel theft. Ashwinder Mongia, president, Mohali District Petroleum Dealers Association said, “The price difference between fuel sold in Chandigarh and Punjab encourages smugglers to hoard fuel illegally. As per projections, this leads to a loss of Rs 600 crore per annum to the Punjab government due to smuggling and shifting of business to neighbouring states.”Petrol or diesel cannot be purchased, stored or sold without a valid licence as mandated by the Motor Spirit and High Speed Diesel (Regulation of Supply, Distribution and Prevention of Malpractices) Order.Fourth victim succumbs to burnsThe fourth victim, who suffered 80% burns in the blast at a Lalru dhaba on Friday, also succumbed to his injuries at PGIMER, Chandigarh, on Saturday night.Apart from Sandeep Kumar, Jaswinder Singh, 35, owner of Rama Punjabi dhaba, and his relatives, Babloo, 20, and Vikram Kumar, were also killed in the blast, which occurred while they were stealing fuel from an oil tanker at the dhaba located in Sirsini village, Lalru, on the Ambala-Chandigarh highway.The explosion ripped through the dhaba’s basement after a spark in the pump that led to fire in the petrol and diesel drums stored in its basement.In July last year, Jaswinder was booked for illegally storing 525 litres of petrol and 630 litres of diesel in his dhaba’s basement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/blast-during-fuel-theft-pilferage-rampant-at-19-dhabas-in-dera-bassi-reveals-probe/story-DzgIULclXDommchiXOlxLL.html
16-11-2020||World||Moderna says its Covid-19 vaccine is nearly 95% effective||US biotech company Moderna said on Monday its candidate vaccine for Covid-19 has turned out to be nearly 95% effective in thwarting the deadly coronavirus and it planned to apply for regulatory authorisation in 10 days’ time, setting up limited-capacity distribution in the United States before year-end.This is the second vaccine on the way. US pharmaceutical company Pfizer and German BioNtech announced last week that their candidate vaccine tested 90% effective. “This is a pivotal moment in the development of our Covid-19 vaccine candidate,” said Stéphane Bancel, chief executive officer of Moderna, in a statement. “We look forward to the next milestones of submitting for an EUA (emergency use authorisation) in the US, and regulatory filings in countries around the world.”Bancel told The Washington Post the company planned to apply for EUA shortly before November 26, and that he hoped to make it available to those at high risk in the second half of December.It could not be immediately ascertained if and when Moderna would be able to make the vaccine available in India. Pfizer has said it is in talks to sell its vaccine in India.More than 1.3 million people have died from Covid-19 around the world and more than 54 million have been infected. The pandemic has begun surging again with experts warning of a grim winter. The US and India are the two worst-hit countries, with 11 million and 8 million infections and 246,000 and 130,000 fatalities respectively, according to the Johns Hopkins University’s coronavirus tracker.The US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), which is headed by leading epidemiologist Anthony Fauci and which co-developed the drug, said the “data suggests that the vaccine is safe and effective at preventing symptomatic Covid-19 in adults… The findings are statistically significant, meaning they are likely not due to chance”.US President Donald Trump, who has been more focused in recent days on seeking to overturn his defeat in the election, welcomed Moderna’s announcement with a swipe at his critics. “Another vaccine just announced. This time by Moderna, 95% effective. For those great ‘historians’, please remember that these great discoveries, which will end the China plague, all took place on my watch!”Moderna received substantial funding from the US government as part of Trump’s Operation Warp Speed, a project launched to expedite the search for a Covid-19 vaccine. As mentioned, Fauci’s NIAID collaborated with it. Pfizer and BioNtech developed their vaccine candidate independently, without any government funding, though the Trump administration sought to claim credit for it as well.The Moderna vaccine candidate was being tested on 30,000 volunteers, half of whom received two doses of it and the rest were on placebo. Among the 95 people who tested positive for Covid-19 two weeks after the second dose, 90 were those who were in the placebo group, as were the 11 who developed severe symptoms.The 95 Covid-19 cases included 15 older adults (ages over 65) and 20 who identified themselves as belonging to diverse communities (including 12 Hispanic or Latinx, four Black or African-Americans, three Asian-Americans and one multiracial), Moderna said in the press announcement.Moderna added that it expected to apply for EUA with the US drug regulator FDA in the coming weeks, with an unspecified time-frame for other counties. A response was awaited to a request for plans for India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/moderna-says-its-covid-19-vaccine-is-nearly-95-effective/story-pGxbAKcScADu7GvQ4xWEBL.html
16-11-2020||World||Brazilian voters ignore Jair Bolsonaro’s city election endorsements||Brazil’s President Jair Bolsonaro has suffered a setback as most of the dozens of candidates he backed for municipal elections failed to secure victories or spots in run-offs.In more than 5,500 cities, Brazilians voted for mayors and city councillors on Sunday. The wave of political renewal that two years ago catapulted Bolsonaro to the presidency appeared to ebb in the face of well-known candidates and traditional parties, which scored the most votes in the two most populous cities. Of the nearly 60 candidates whom the leader backed, only nine advanced, according to a tally by newspaper Estado de S.Paulo.Bolsonaro, who is currently not affiliated with any political party, had said he would not get involved in the election campaign, but in recent weeks he turned to social media to promote a dozen candidates for mayor as well as councillor candidates.Bruno Carazza, a professor of economic law at Brazil’s Ibmec business school, said Bolsonaro had not made a concerted effort to rally supporters in the municipal elections and had lost an opportunity to “prepare the ground for the 2022 elections.″The president deleted a social media post with a list of the candidates he had supported and sought to distance himself from their poor performances. Only two mayors backed by the president secured a spot in the second round.“My help to a few mayoral candidates was summed up by 4 live broadcasts on social media over a total of 3 hours,” he wrote.An adviser to the president, Filipe Martins, was more forthcoming with his disappointment, writing on Twitter that the opposition had scored significant advances.“Either we do the necessary self-criticism, or our errors will be paid for at an even higher price in the future,” Martins wrote.One of Bolsonaro’s biggest frustrations came in Sao Paulo, where his chosen candidate — the television presenter and federal lawmaker Celso Russomanno (Republicanos) — came in fourth place. The incumbent Mayor Bruno Covas (PSDB party) didn’t garner enough votes to avoid a runoff against opponent Guilherme Boulos (PSOL party), a Bolsonaro critic.In Rio de Janeiro, the former mayor Eduardo Paes (DEM party) tallied a wide lead over current Mayor Marcelo Crivella (Republicanos party) —one of two mayoral candidates who Bolsonaro supported. The two will also face one another in a runoff.“The vote wasn’t an evaluation of the presidential administration, but rather a political thermometer of the country,” said Mauricio Santoro, a political science professor at the State University of Rio de Janeiro. “The voter was more cautious, trending toward more experienced and moderate politicians than the anti-system election of 2018.”About 148 million people were eligible to vote across the country, and voting is compulsory for Brazilians between 18 and 70 years old.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brazilian-voters-ignore-jair-bolsonaro-s-city-election-endorsements/story-NWmq22W1ABTTNRtZQkuUkM.html
16-11-2020||World||Trial starts over foiled Paris train attack that inspired Clint Eastwood movie||A Moroccan man and three alleged accomplices went on trial in France Monday for an attempted terror attack on an Amsterdam-Paris train five years ago that was foiled by passengers whose heroic actions were turned into a Hollywood film.Director Clint Eastwood, 90, is on the witness list for the trial in Paris, scheduled to last until December 17. It is believed his 2018 film “The 15:17 to Paris” will serve as a reconstruction of the events of August 21, 2015.Asked by the judge whether he admitted to the facts detailed in the indictment where he is charged with seeking to carry out the attack, Ayoub El Khazzani, 31, replied: “Yes, to all of them.”Khazzani was tackled by passengers shortly after emerging bare-chested and heavily armed from a toilet on a Thalys high-speed train.There were some 150 passengers in the carriage with Khazzani, who had an AK47 slung over his back, and a bag of nearly 300 rounds of ammunition.One of them, Franco-American professor Mark Moogalian, grabbed Khazzani’s assault rifle as he emerged.The attacker took a pistol out of his belt, shot and wounded Moogalian, and reclaimed the AK47 only to be tackled afresh and disarmed by two US soldiers -- Spencer Stone and Alek Skarlatos -- who heard the commotion from a neighbouring carriage.The soldiers were aided by their friend Anthony Sadler, with whom they were backpacking through Europe.- ‘Mass attack’ avoided -Stone was slashed in the neck and on an eyebrow and almost had his thumb sliced off with a box-cutter wielded by Khazzani.“He had 270 rounds of ammunition on him, enough to kill 300 people,” according to Thibault de Montbrial, the lawyer for the three Americans.The lawyer argues there was no doubt his clients had prevented a “mass attack”.Khazzani, who joined the Islamic State group in Syria in May 2015, is charged with “attempted terrorist murder”. The 31-year-old appeared in court dressed in a blue denim shirt, his black hair tied back. He detailed his childhood in Morocco and how the family had moved to Spain, where he was arrested several times and turned to religion.He was joined in the dock by three men facing charges for aiding and abetting the crime: Bilal Chatra, Redouane Sebbar and Mohamed Bakkali.Also present in court to face his attacker was Moogalian, accompanied by his wife.- Link to Paris attacks -The train assault happened in the same year as the December 15 massacre of staff at the Charlie Hebdo satirical magazine, the killing of a policewoman, and a deadly hostage siege at a Jewish supermarket -- three days of violence that left 17 dead.In November the same year, jihadists armed with assault rifles and explosives struck simultaneously outside the national stadium, Paris cafés and the Bataclan concert hall, killing 130 people and wounding more than 350 in France’s deadliest peace-time attack.Co-accused Chatra is charged with having acted as an advance scout for Khazzani to get into Europe via the migrant trail from Syria. The other two are accused of having helped Khazzani and Belgian Abdelhamid Abaaoud -- believed to have been one of the masterminds behind the Thalys and November 13 attacks -- to enter Europe and set up a jihadist cell.Police killed Abaaoud after he shot indiscriminately at packed café terraces in Paris on the night of the coordinated attacks, for which Bakkali is also accused of having acted as logistics coordinator.The former American soldiers, who along with Moogalian played themselves in Eastwood’s film, would attend the trial on Thursday and Friday this week, days set aside for witness testimony from train passengers, the court heard.The trial comes at a time of heightened security alert in France following three attacks blamed on jihadists in a month -- a knife attack outside Charlie Hebdo’s former offices, the beheading of a history teacher, and a deadly stabbing spree at a church in Nice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trial-starts-over-foiled-paris-train-attack-that-inspired-clint-eastwood-movie/story-TzWkPHWZ9i2t8X6vIFZFAM.html
16-11-2020||World||President Donald Trump drops key claim in Pennsylvania lawsuit over US election result||US President Donald Trump’s campaign has dropped a significant portion of its lawsuit in Pennsylvania, a key battleground state that gave the White House 2020 race to Joe Biden, once again reflecting the weak legal case he has made to overturn the outcome of the election.The campaign had in an earlier lawsuit sought to block the state from certifying its election result and asked for setting aside 682,479 ballots that it alleged had been counted “illegally, in secret” as its poll watchers were not allowed to observe the counting.An amended lawsuit filed on Sunday in a federal court still aimed at blocking the certification, but dropped the demand for setting aside those nearly 700,000 ballots.President Trump and the campaign pushed back aggressively in tweets and statements on Monday. “We are still arguing that 682,479 ballots were counted illegally, in secret,” said Tim Murtaugh, Trump 2020 communications director. “Our poll watchers were denied meaningful access to watch the vote counting and we still incorporate that claim in our complaint.”Rudy Giuliani, personal attorney to the president who is not the point person for the legal challenges, said, “It’s routine for attorneys to file amended complaints to tighten the claims. We simplified the suit, so it is more focused and narrowed. This is part of the process.”The case is up for hearing on Tuesday.The Trump campaign and the president’s allies in the Republican Party have filed multiple lawsuits - 18, according to one count - seeking to challenge the outcome in key states that were won by Biden: Pennsylvania, Michigan, Wisconsin, Arizona, Georgia and Nevada.But they mostly haven’t had real impact. And, in fact, judges dealing with them have responded with mounting frustration. “At what point does this get ridiculous?” Andrew Gordon, a judge in Nevada, had asked Republican lawyers who challenged the counting saying their observers were not able to hear everything ballot counters were saying.Trump’s legal challenges faced a severe setback last week when a law firm representing him in a lawsuit in Pennsylvania withdrew saying it did not represent the campaign any longer.Trump’s allegations of fraud have been debunked by election security officials of his own administration who said last week that the November 3 voting and the counting of votes has been the “most secure in American history”.Trump has continued to press his case undeterred. Though he acknowledged on Sunday that Biden has “won” the election, he has still not conceded it.On Monday, Trump tweeted, saying, “I won the election.” The post was summarily flagged by Twitter and a warning was placed under it.President-elect Biden has sought to move on seemingly undistracted by Trump’s efforts to challenge the election outcome.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/president-donald-trump-drops-key-claim-in-pennsylvania-lawsuit-over-us-election-result/story-bZwiH08FMCZVTLG3tLLJSI.html
16-11-2020||World||WHO says no time for Covid complacency despite vaccine news||The World Health Organization (WHO) said on Monday that there is no time for complacency in confronting the coronavirus despite positive news about possible vaccines.“Right now we are extremely concerned by the surge in #COVID19 cases we’re seeing in some countries,” WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said in a Tweet on Monday.“Particularly in Europe and the Americas, #healthworkers and health systems are being pushed to the breaking point.”More than 54.44 million people have been reported infected by the coronavirus globally and 1,318,042​ have died, according to a Reuters tally.Infections have been reported in more than 210 countries and territories since the first cases were identified in China in December 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-says-no-time-for-covid-complacency-despite-vaccine-news/story-319R9KtmGd5COBlER14J1I.html
16-11-2020||World||65 coronavirus cases, with 1 cluster, in WHO Geneva staff||The World Health Organization has recorded 65 cases of the coronavirus among staff based at its headquarters, including at least one cluster of infections, an internal email obtained by The Associated Press shows, despite the agency’s past assertions that there has been no transmission at the Geneva site.The revelation comes amid a surge of cases in Europe, host country Switzerland, and the city of Geneva, in particular, and the email said about half of the infections were in people who had been working from home. But 32 were in staff who had been working on premises at the headquarters building, indicating that the health agency’s strict hygiene, screening and other prevention measures were not sufficient to spare it from the pandemic.Farah Dakhlallah, a WHO spokeswoman, confirmed the accuracy of the information about the case count in an email to the AP and that officials were still investigating.“We have not yet established whether transmission occurred on campus, but are looking into the matter,” Dakhlallah said.Raul Thomas, who heads business operations at WHO, emailed staff on Friday noting that five people — four on the same team and one who had contact with them— had tested positive for Covid-19. While the email did not use the term “cluster,” one is generally defined as two or more cases in the same area, and the five cases indicate basic infection control and social distancing procedures were likely being broken.A previous email he sent on October 16 indicated that no clusters had been found at the site.“As per standard protocols, these colleagues are receiving the necessary medical attention and are recovering at home,” the email Friday said. “These last five cases bring the total reported number of affected members of the Geneva based workforce to 65 since the beginning of the pandemic.”The email did not specify who was infected, but a WHO staffer with direct knowledge of the situation who spoke on condition of anonymity because she was not authorized to speak to the press said the cluster included a member of the WHO director-general’s leadership team who is also an infection control specialist.Thomas’ email was sent after other WHO officials raised concerns that people who had been in contact with the cluster were still working in the Geneva building and potentially exposing others to Covid-19, the staffer said.The senior manager reportedly held several in-person meetings at WHO in early November before testing positive last week. The person, contacted by the AP, referred all comments to the WHO media office.WHO has faced repeated criticism of its handling of the pandemic. US President Donald Trump accused the U.N. agency of “colluding” with China to hide the extent of the initial outbreak. In June, the AP found WHO publicly lauded China for its speed and transparency, even though private meetings showed WHO officials frustrated that the country sat on releasing critical outbreak information.According to Thomas’ email, 49 of the overall cases had occurred in the last eight weeks, “thus very much in line with the situation being reported in Geneva and the surrounding areas.” He added that “a higher number of cases among those who telework might have gone unreported.”Enhanced measures to “reduce our risk profile” were being considered, the email said.“Finally, members of the workforce are reminded that physical meetings, including gatherings in common areas or in the cafeteria, are strongly discouraged and should only take place where absolutely necessary,” it added.Elsewhere in Geneva, restaurants are among many public venues that have been closed to prevent the spread of Covid-19.Last month, Thomas told WHO staffers the agency was restricting access to its Geneva headquarters to critical staffers, including senior directors, their assistants and management officers. “All members for the workforce are reminded to always keep proper hand hygiene, respect physical distancing standards (at least one meter) and wear masks, when distancing is not possible,” he wrote.In normal times, an estimated 2,400 people regularly work at WHO’s seven-story headquarters overlooking Geneva. As the pandemic has swelled in the area, staffers have been encouraged to work from home when possible. Non-staff visitors have been required to wear masks, and access to the building has been curtailed.And ahead of WHO’s weeklong meeting of its member states last week — which was mostly virtual — staffers were told in an internal email to take extra precautions, including mask-wearing in public places.On Monday, from a vast meeting room at the headquarters, WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus and other officials were participating in a session of the agency’s latest executive board meeting, which was largely conducted by video conference. He was returning from a two-week self-quarantine at home after coming into contact with a person who tested positive. Because Tedros did not show any symptoms himself, he was not tested for Covid-19 but stayed at home out of an abundance of caution.On Nov. 2, WHO’s technical lead for the Covid-19 response, Maria Van Kerkhove, told reporters there had been no transmission or clusters at headquarters, before adding: “But it is something that we’re monitoring every day.”The WHO press office did not respond to two emails from the AP — on Nov. 2 and Nov. 10 — asking how many staffers based at WHO headquarters had tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/65-coronavirus-cases-with-1-cluster-in-who-geneva-staff/story-Fi4mfdra4ChqW2F3omaiWJ.html
16-11-2020||World||Imran Khan’s party wins 8 seats in Gilgit-Baltistan polls; Opposition says election ‘stolen’||Prime Minister Imran Khan’s Pakistan Tehreek-i-Insaf (PTI) on Monday won eight of 23 constituencies and was leading in one seat in the legislative assembly polls in Gilgit-Baltistan, prompting Opposition parties to dub the election as “stolen.” India has slammed Pakistan for its decision to hold elections in Gilgit-Baltistan and said any action to alter the status of the militarily-occupied region has no legal basis.Elections were held on 23 seats of the third legislative assembly on Sunday amidst tight security due to the threat of militancy. Polling on one seat was postponed after the death of one of the contestants.Unofficial results compiled by the various media outlets showed that PTI won at least 8 seats and was ahead in one, but it was still well short of majority to form the government. However, it was in a position to form the government as 6-7 independent candidates also won.Geo TV reported that PTI won 8 seats, independent candidates 7, Pakistan People’s Party (PPP) 3, Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) 2, Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam Fazl (JIU-F) and Majlis Wahdatul Muslimeen (MWM) 1 seat each.The official results were still not known as election authorities may take some time to announce the final outcome.Both the Opposition parties PPP and PML-N have alleged poll rigging by the ruling PTI.Commenting on the unofficial results, PPP chief Bilawal Bhutto Zardari alleged that the “election was stolen”.“Our candidates were asked to leave PPP and join PTI,” Bilawal said while addressing a protest rally at Gilgit’s DC Chowk against the alleged “rigging” in the elections.“The people of this region will not allow you to steal their votes,” he said.PML-N also rejected the election results, saying the party would protest against them.“The people are being robbed of their rights,” PML-N’s secretary-general Ahsan Iqbal said, adding that independent candidates won against PTI candidates. “ “The success of the independent candidates means that the people have rejected the PTI,” he added.As many as 330 candidates, including four women contested the election.Out of 1,141 polling stations, 577 have been declared sensitive and 297 highly sensitive. Over 15,000 security personnel from Gilgit-Baltistan, Punjab, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Sindh and Balochistan were deployed at the polling stations.It is the third election for the current legislative assembly after political reform introduced in 2010.Traditionally, the party ruling in Islamabad have won the Gilgit-Baltistan polls. The first election was won by PPP when it got 15 seats, followed by the PML-N, the then ruling party, in 2015 when it won 16 seats.The voters kept the tradition but with a difference as PTI failed to get an outright majority. PML-N emerged as the biggest loser as it ruled from 2015-2020 and was popular in the region.PPP Secretary General Nayyar Bukhari on Sunday demanded disqualification of ruling PTI candidates from the election.It is expected that some changes in the status of the region would be announced after the new government was formed in the region.In a ruling earlier this year, the Pakistan Supreme Court allowed Islamabad to amend a 2018 administrative order to conduct general elections in the region. The Gilgit-Baltistan Order of 2018 provided for administrative changes, including authorising the prime minister of Pakistan to legislate on an array of subjects.Following the verdict, India issued a demarche to a senior Pakistani diplomat in New Delhi and lodged a strong protest over the apex court ruling.India also clearly conveyed to Pakistan that the entire Union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, including the areas of Gilgit and Baltistan, are an integral part of the country.The polls in Gilgit-Baltistan were to be held on August 18, but Pakistan’s election commission on July 11 postponed them due to the coronavirus pandemic.The five-year term of the previous assembly had ended on June 24, bringing an end to the five-year rule of the Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N). PTI SH RS ZH AKJ ZH ZH||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/imran-khan-s-party-wins-8-seats-in-gilgit-baltistan-polls-opposition-says-election-stolen/story-p0GnOcEi0fXBxgFn4M3DjJ.html
16-11-2020||World||‘A Promised Land’: First volume of Barack Obama’s memoir to hit stands on November 17||The first volume of former US president Barack Obama’s memoir, which has created a buzz over his candid remarks on Indian politicians, is coming out on November 17. The book, titled ‘A Promised Land’, mentions former prime minister Manmohan Singh, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and party president Sonia Gandhi. While the memoir is currently not available in stores, the New York Times provided a glimpse of the content in its book review. Obama says Rahul Gandhi has “a nervous, unformed quality about him, as if he were a student who’d done the coursework and was eager to impress the teacher but deep down lacked either the aptitude or the passion to master the subject,” according to The NYT review.Also Read | Obama urges media to rebuild social trust; ‘the country is divided’Former PM Manmohan Singh also finds mention in Obama’s memoir as he recalls Singh as “having a kind of impassive integrity.” The book has been able to draw India’s attention due to the remarks made by Obama on the country’s political leaders. On Sunday, Congress leader Shashi Tharoor said that he has got hold of an advance copy of ‘A Promised Land’, in which the former US President has praised Singh, describing him as “wise, thoughtful, and scrupulously honest”.In a series of tweets, the 64-year-old parliamentarian said that Obama has called Singh as a “man of uncommon wisdom and decency” with whom he enjoyed “a warm and productive relationship”. Tharoor added that the memoir offers a “foretaste of what the second volume is likely to tell us about India” in a post-Manmohan Singh era. The 768-page memoir, the first of a two-part memoir, will hit the stands tomorrow, after which more details regarding Obama’s view on Indian leaders are expected to emerge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/a-promised-land-first-volume-of-barack-obama-s-memoir-to-hit-stands-on-november-17/story-lo8GUt4lkoqyjFIkfDo1MJ.html
16-11-2020||World||‘On my watch!’: Trump boasts about Moderna’s Covid-19 vaccine efficacy||US President Donald Trump boasted about the impressive early trial results of Covid-19 vaccine developed by Moderna Inc., which has shown 94.5 per cent efficacy. Calling Covid-19 vaccine development as “great discoveries”, the US President said the “great historians” should remember that it happened on his watch. “Another Vaccine just announced. This time by Moderna, 95% effective. For those great ‘historians’, please remember that these great discoveries, which will end the China Plague, all took place on my watch!” Trump tweeted.Earlier today, the US biotech firm said the trial has met the statistical criteria, adding that the preliminary analysis suggests a broadly consistent safety across all evaluated subgroups. Moderna confirmed that it intends to submit for an Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) with the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in the coming weeks.Also Read | Moderna says its vaccine is 94.5% effective in preventing Covid-19After the announcement, President-elect Joe Biden said that the news regarding the second vaccine is further reason to feel hopeful, but warned that the availability is still months away. Biden took to Twitter to advise that Americans need to continue wearing mask and practice social-distancing to get the virus under control.“Once again, I congratulate the brilliant women and men who produced this breakthrough and have brought us one step closer to beating this virus. I am also thankful for the frontline workers who are still confronting the virus around the clock,” he tweeted.The United States remains the worst-hit nation in terms of overall coronavirus cases and related deaths. According to Johns Hopkins Coronavirus Resource Center, the US has reported over 11 million Covid-19 cases and more than 246,000 related deaths so far. Last week, Biden’s transition team had announced the formation of the Transition Covid-19 Advisory Board, comprised of leading public health experts to advise the administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/on-my-watch-trump-boasts-about-moderna-s-covid-19-vaccine-efficacy/story-9Ymy89s52H99GEOxQeqybL.html
16-11-2020||World||Questions over Al-Qaeda future after leaders’ reported deaths||The reported deaths of Al-Qaeda’s top two leaders in recent months have raised questions about the future strategy and strength of the terror network, already a shadow of the global force it was two decades ago.The New York Times reported last week that Al-Qaeda’s deputy leader Abdullah Ahmad Abdullah, who went by the nom-de-guerre Abu Muhammad al-Masri, was secretly killed in Tehran in August by two Israeli operatives at Washington’s behest.Meanwhile, prominent experts on Al-Qaeda have quoted sources as saying that Ayman al-Zawahiri, who succeeded Osama Bin Laden as the chief of the group behind the September 11, 2001, attacks on the United States, is also dead.Iran has strongly denied the report over the killing of Abdullah, while Al-Qaeda has not issued any confirmation of the purported death of al-Zawahiri through its usual media channels.Yet the reports have come as questions grow over Al-Qaeda’s future intentions, with the network radically different from the franchise that spread fear around the world under the leadership of the charismatic Bin Laden.- ‘Very typical of AQ’ -The killing of the Saudi in a US operation in Pakistan in 2011 left the group in the hands of al-Zawahiri, an Egyptian veteran of jihad and the key Al-Qaeda ideologue, but without Bin Laden’s ability to rally radicals around the world.Hassan Hassan, director of the US-based Center for Global Policy (CGP), said at the weekend that al-Zawahiri had died a month ago of natural causes.And Rita Katz, director of the jihadist media monitor SITE, said unconfirmed reports were circulating that al-Zawahiri had died.“It is very typical of AQ to not publish news about the death of its leaders in a timely manner,” she said. Nonetheless, this is not the first time there have been reports of al-Zawahiri’s death, only for him to re-emerge on several occasions.“Intelligence agencies believe he is very sick,” said Barak Mendelsohn, associate professor at Haverford College and author of several books on Al-Qaeda and jihadism.“Ultimately, if it did not happen now, it will happen soon,” he told AFP.- ‘Board of advisors’ -If either or both men are dead, the group they have left behind can in no way be compared to the network which planned and carried out the September 11 attacks, analysts say.Its ideology has spawned several franchises across the world that bear its name, including in Africa’s Sahel region, in Pakistan as well as in Somalia, Egypt and Yemen.But it does not control their actions or the alliances that they may forge on a local level.Mendelsohn said he expected Al-Qaeda’s leadership to act more along the lines of a “board of advisors” in the future.“People will listen to AQ central leadership if they want to, not because they think they are bound to obey its view,” he said.No longer the supreme jihadist group, Al-Qaeda has seen other outfits grow and has sometimes clashed with them on the ground.It has been overshadowed by the Islamic State (IS) group which sought to carve out a caliphate in Iraq and Syria and coordinated attacks in Europe.- Who’s next? -The key challenge of a new leader would be to retain the group’s potency within this context.Many analysts point to one key candidate -- Saif al-Adel, a former lieutenant-colonel in the Egyptian armed forces who joined the Egyptian jihadist movement in the 1980s.He was arrested and then released, ending up in Afghanistan which was the base for Bin Laden and al-Zawahiri, and joining Al-Qaeda.According to the US-based Counter Extremism Project (CEP) think tank, he was arrested in Iran in 2003 and freed in 2015 in a prisoner exchange. He was still believed to be in Iran in 2018 as one of al-Zawahiri’s key deputies.“Adel played a crucial role in building Al-Qaeda’s operational capabilities and quickly ascended the hierarchy,” the CEP said.Mendelsohn said Adel was a “big name” in the movement and “should be the next in line”.But he stressed that Adel, along with Abdullah, spent several years hiding in Iran, thus possibly staying away from Al-Qaeda’s new generation of leaders.“I’m not sure how strong his position is within Al-Qaeda, especially now that the old generation, basically all the old guard, is dead.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/questions-over-al-qaeda-future-after-leaders-reported-deaths/story-DZBWbfOWvufzLHVSJvae6L.html
16-11-2020||World||Moderna, Pfizer shots look strong. Here’s how they stack up||The first two Covid-19 vaccines out of the gate have now delivered positive news in the quest to end the pandemic. The encouraging late-stage trial results from Pfizer Inc. and Moderna Inc. set a high bar for rivals such as AstraZeneca Plc that are expected to follow soon with their own pivotal reports.The data will likely increase confidence that more vaccines will work and that the world may soon find a way to get the coronavirus under control. Here’s what we know about the two shots.How do the results compare?Moderna said Monday its vaccine was 94.5% effective in a preliminary analysis. That compares favorably with the lofty level achieved a week earlier by Pfizer and its partner, BioNTech SE. The shot created by the US and German companies was found to be more than 90% effective. Moderna data showed that side effects were generally short-lived and there were no significant safety concerns, while no serious Covid cases developed among trial participants who got the vaccine. US regulators earlier this year released guidance that said any shot should be at least 50% effective.What do the two vaccines have in common?Both shots rely on a technology called messenger RNA that has never been used before to develop an approved vaccine. The approach is designed to transform the body’s own cells into vaccine-making factories. The vaccines instruct cells to make copies of the spike protein of the coronavirus, stimulating the creation of protective antibodies.How are they different?Moderna received $955 million from the US Operation Warp Speed program. Pfizer has said it didn’t receive any federal funding to develop its vaccine, though BioNTech got as much as 375 million euros ($444 million) in German government assistance. Still, Pfizer has struck a supply agreement with the U.S. worth nearly $2 billion. The U.S. has agreed to pay up to $1.53 billion to purchase supply of the Moderna shot.What are the storage and distribution challenges?After vaccines are approved, the effort to immunize hundreds of millions of people will need to overcome a series of other hurdles. Storage and distribution for some of the products is complex. Pfizer’s vaccine must be stored ultra-cold until a few days before it is used, but can be kept at refrigerator temperatures for as much as five days. Moderna, meanwhile, pointed to new data showing its vaccine is stable at refrigerator temperatures for 30 days, much longer than a previously estimated seven days. It can be kept in freezers over the longer term and doesn’t need the special facilities required for the Pfizer vaccine.Where Will Vaccines Go First?Global demand for vaccines initially is expected to far exceed supplies despite significant efforts to ramp up production ahead of time. Moderna has already reached agreements to supply 100 million doses to the US and 80 million to the European Union, among others. The UK said Monday that it’s negotiating with the company but any doses wouldn’t become available in the country until next spring, at the earliest. Pfizer and BioNTech have their own deals for hundreds of millions of shots.When could they be ready to deploy?The results are preliminary, but both Moderna and Pfizer are expected to seek emergency-use authorization from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration if further review demonstrates their vaccines are safe. Moderna said it could seek clearance from regulators in the coming weeks. Pfizer expects to get two months of safety follow-up data in the third week in November. If all goes well, Pfizer could apply for an authorization in the U.S. this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/moderna-pfizer-shots-look-strong-here-s-how-they-stack-up/story-vpLQOdxMIgmdgTkgYmjhgN.html
16-11-2020||World||Covid-19: How does Moderna’s vaccine candidate compare to Pfizer’s?||The global Covid-19 vaccine race received a major boost as the US biotech firm Moderna Inc. revealed impressive early trial results, days after similar results released by Pfizer. Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB), appointed by NIH for the Phase 3 trials, reportedly informed the company that the trial has met the statistical criteria, with a vaccine efficacy of 94.5 per cent.“Preliminary analysis suggests a broadly consistent safety and efficacy profile across all evaluated subgroups,” the biotech firm said in a statement.Moderna said that it intends to submit for an Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) with the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in the coming weeks. The company added that it also plans to submit applications for authorizations to global regulatory agencies. It uses the same messenger RNA technology as the Pfizer vaccine candidate.Also Read | Moderna says its vaccine is 94.5% effective in preventing Covid-19According to the preliminary data, Moderna’s vaccine has shown a slightly better efficacy rate as compared to the vaccine developed by Pfizer/BioNTech SE, which was found to be more than 90 per cent effective in preventing COVID-19 in participants. However, the final numbers could change since the trials are still underway. Moderna’s vaccine, mRNA-1273, appears to be easier to store as it is expected to remain stable at standard refrigerated conditions of 2°C to 8°C for up to 30 days within the 6-month shelf life. It allows for storage at most pharmacies, hospitals, or physicians’ offices. The vaccine can be kept at room temperature conditions for up to 12 hours once it is removed from the refrigerator for administration. On the other hand, Pfizer’s vaccine candidate needs ultra-cold storage at around minus 75°C and can be kept in the fridge for five days.“The ability to store our vaccine for up to 6 months at -20° C including up to 30 days at normal refrigerator conditions after thawing is an important development and would enable simpler distribution and more flexibility to facilitate wider-scale vaccination in the United States and other parts of the world,” Juan Andres, Moderna CTO and Quality Officer, said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-how-does-moderna-s-vaccine-candidate-compare-to-pfizer-s/story-1kWqY2g0PYeEeH8YpXiqEN.html
16-11-2020||World||WHO registers one-day record in new Covid-19 cases||The World Health Organization’s coronavirus dashboard on Sunday showed a record daily number of new Covid-19 cases over the weekend.The WHO’s figures for Saturday showed that 660,905 coronavirus cases were reported to the UN health agency, setting a new high watermark.That number, and the 645,410 registered on Friday, surpassed the previous daily record high of 614,013 recorded on November 7. Within Saturday’s new case numbers, the WHO’s Americas region registered a one-day record high of 269,225 new confirmed cases.Within each week, the pattern of cases being reported to the WHO tends to peak towards Friday, Saturday and Sunday, and dip around Tuesday and Wednesday.According to the WHO’s figures, there have been more than 53.7 million confirmed cases of the disease in total since the start of the pandemic, while over 1.3 million people have lost their lives. WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus warned Friday that there was “a long way to go” in getting the virus under control globally.The 9,928 deaths reported to the WHO on Thursday, 9,567 on Friday and 9,924 on Saturday marked the first time that more than 9,500 deaths have been registered on three consecutive days.Thursday’s toll was the highest since the 10,012 registered on August 15, and the third-highest one-day toll in the entire pandemic -- though those previous higher figures were seemingly due to unusual reporting spikes.“No country can say it was well-enough prepared for Covid-19, or that it has no lessons to learn,” Tedros said Friday as he closed the WHO’s annual assembly, at which member states approved a resolution on strengthening preparedness for health emergencies.As he welcomed the rapid progress towards a safe and effective vaccine, Tedros nonetheless warned that “we have a long way to go”, and insisted that the virus could be contained even without a vaccine breakthrough.“The world cannot put all its eggs in one basket and neglect the many other tools at our disposal that... are effective for bringing this virus under control,” he said.“The virus itself has not changed significantly, and nor have the measures needed to stop it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-registers-one-day-record-in-new-covid-19-cases/story-dcRsyp4fbR1NKB86fA782K.html
16-11-2020||World||Playing video games is good for well-being, shows Oxford research||Many have mixed views about video games and time spent playing them, but new research released by the University of Oxford on Monday says that the time spent playing such games is positively associated with well-being.The Covid-19 pandemic has seen more people hunkered down in homes playing video games and connecting with others through social media. Described as a first-of-its-kind study, researchers used industry data on actual play time for popular video games.The study concluded that the actual amount of time spent playing was a small but significant positive factor in people’s well-being; and that a player’s subjective experiences during play might be a bigger factor for well-being than mere play time.Players experiencing genuine enjoyment from the games experience more positive well-being, it said, adding that the study’s findings align with past research suggesting people whose psychological needs were not being met in the “real world” might report negative well-being from play.The study used data on actual play time for popular video games Plants vs Zombies: Battle for Neighborville and Animal Crossing: New Horizons, and suggests that experiences of competence and social connection with others through play may contribute to people’s well-being.Andrew Przybylski, director of research at the Oxford Internet Institute, and lead author of the study, said, “Previous research has relied mainly on self-report surveys to study the relationship between play and well-being. Without objective data from games companies, those proposing advice to parents or policymakers have done so without the benefit of a robust evidence base.“Our findings show video games aren’t necessarily bad for your health; there are other psychological factors which have a significant effect on a persons’ well-being. In fact, play can be an activity that relates positively to people’s mental health - and regulating video games could withhold those benefits from players.”The researchers worked with Electronic Arts and Nintendo of America to combine academic and industry expertise.“Through access to data on peoples’ playing time, for the first time we’ve been able to investigate the relation between actual game play behaviour and subjective well-being, enabling us to deliver a template for crafting high-quality evidence to support health policymakers,” Przybylski added.The study explored the association between objective game time and well-being, examining the link between directly measured behaviour and subjective mental health. It also explored the roles of player experiences, specifically how feelings of autonomy, relatedness, competence, enjoyment and feeling pressured to play related to well-being.More than 3,270 players were asked to complete a survey designed by the researchers to measure well-being, self-reported play, and motivational experiences during play. The survey findings were combined with objective behavioural data for the survey participants, collected by the video game companies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/playing-video-games-is-good-for-well-being-shows-oxford-research/story-FIHxOPZZ5KGK0noTcUzwDI.html
16-11-2020||World||Vaccine will not be enough to stop coronavirus pandemic: WHO chief||The head of the World Health Organization said Monday that a vaccine would not by itself stop the coronavirus pandemic.The pandemic is raging months after it broke out, with infections soaring past 54 million and claiming more than 1.3 million lives.“A vaccine will complement the other tools we have, not replace them,” director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said. “A vaccine on its own will not end the pandemic.”The WHO’s figures for Saturday showed that 660,905 coronavirus cases were reported to the UN health agency, setting a new high water mark.That number, and the 645,410 registered on Friday, surpassed the previous daily record high of 614,013 recorded on November 7.Tedros said that supplies of the vaccine would initially be restricted, with “health workers, older people and other at-risk populations (to) be prioritised. That will hopefully reduce the number of deaths and enable the health systems to cope.”But he warned: “That will still leave the virus with a lot of room to move. Surveillance will need to continue, people will still need to be tested, isolated and cared for, contacts will still need to be traced... and individuals will still need to be cared for.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/vaccine-will-not-be-enough-to-stop-coronavirus-pandemic-who-chief/story-t2iguhXshONFOg8Yt4kYnL.html
16-11-2020||World||RCEP deal that India didn’t join stands signed now. What’s next?||The Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership, or RCEP, was signed virtually on Sunday during the annual summit of the 10-nation Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN).The signing of the pact was an unusual ceremony since all the member countries were connected by video.The trade ministers of each country took turns to sign separate copies of the pact and later held it up for the cameras, accompanied by their respective head of the state. 14 countries under the tutelage of China have formally agreed to form the world’s largest free trade bloc, encompassing nearly a third of all economic activity. After 8 long years of negotiations, the deal was finally sealed as leaders world over are keen to nudge their pandemic-hit economies back on track.Why did India not take part?India was part of the negotiations up until last year but withdrew from talks after severe domestic protests. The Indian pharmaceutical industry was all in favour of the RCEP because they wanted to import generic drugs to China, but textile, agriculture, and dairy sectors were worried about cheap imports flooding the domestic market. The dairy sector in particular was worried about products from New Zealand and Australia inundating the domestic market. China also rebuffed India’s demands for a more ambitious pact that would have gone further in tying together the region’s economies and would have included trade in services as well as trade in goods. India already faces a mammoth trade deficit with China, and sought power to increase tariffs if imports surged. It also wanted to be able to reduce tariffs for low-end, labour-intensive industrial goods, all points which China refused to include in the pact. “As far as India is concerned, we did not join R.C.E.P. as it does not address the outstanding issues and concerns of India,” Riva Ganguly Das, the secretary for Eastern relations at India’s Ministry of External Affairs, said at a news briefing on Thursday.What changes after the pact comes into force?The most crucial aspect of the pact, for now, is that it opens up trade liaisons between Japan and South Korea. Earlier, Japan due to its controversial role in the wartime occupation of the Korean peninsula was not able to establish friendly relations with South Korea. Last year, at the face of an escalating diplomatic dispute, removed South Korea from its ‘white list’ of trusted trade partners, a move South Korea criticized as a violation of the “spirit” of RCEP. Now, under a comprehensive multilateral trade pact, the two countries are expected to develop better trade relations which they were unable to foster bilaterally.The RCEP also has a rules of origin clause, which will set common standards for how much of a product must be produced within a particular region for the final it to qualify as duty-free. These rules could make it simpler for companies to set up supply chains across several countries. It does not cover environmental protection laws, intellectual property, and labour protection laws, all three laws have been a particular contention for China from time to time with the United States and Europe. It does not put restrictions on state-subsidy of business either, something which the Trans-Pacific Partnership(TPP) brought about by the Obama administration to counter China’s influence in Asia, explicitly dealt with. Experts opine that RCEP is the formalisation of bilateral trade agreements that already existed within different countries into a uniform multilateral trade deal, it does not attempt to remake. China has been taking the lead on RCEP for 8 years now since the Obama administration made plans for a TPP excluding China. When Donald Trump took office he withdrew US from the TPP, choosing to put “America First”, but since last year even Trump has been trying to counter China’s influence, with Joe Biden giving no indication of easing up on China the Communist Parties anxieties are well placed. With the UK’s criticism of its activities in Hong Kong, European Union coming down on China’s Ughyur repression, and America banning Chinese government linked technology companies China is doing its best to hold fort against the global storm that is coming.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/rcep-deal-that-india-didn-t-join-stands-signed-now-what-s-next/story-fl7bwVJxnVvVXLuTNsH12O.html
16-11-2020||World||After congratulating Joe Biden, France’s Macron sees Donald Trump’s envoy||French President Emmanuel Macron has met Monday with US President Donald Trump’s top diplomat behind closed doors in a potentially uncomfortable encounter only nine days after having congratulated President-elect Joe Biden on his election victory.Macron’s office said US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo first met with French Foreign Affairs Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian at the Elysee presidential palace, then met with Macron himself.Neither side said much in advance about Pompeo’s low-profile visit to Paris, the starting point of a seven-country tour of Europe and the Middle East.The purposes of Pompeo’s three-day visit to Paris in the midst of the pandemic appeared unclear. Macron’s office described Pompeo’s planned stop Monday at the presidential Elysee Palace as a “courtesy” visit.No press conference was scheduled, seemingly ruling out the likelihood of journalists getting to ask Pompeo or Macron about their conflicting visions of the US election outcome.Officials in Pompeo’s team said French authorities told them that no press access was possible due to concerns over the Covid-19 pandemic. Paris is under a partial lockdown aimed at slowing the spread of the coronavirus.Pompeo has not accepted Trump’s election defeat. Macron has spoken by phone last week with Biden to congratulate him.Pompeo’s trip is aimed at shoring up the priorities of Trump’s outgoing administration.In an arrival tweet Saturday in France, he laid out the standard diplomatic groundwork for his Paris talks, noting that France is the “oldest friend and Ally” of the United States. “The strong relationship between our countries cannot be overestimated,” he tweeted.From Paris, Pompeo was expected to travel to Turkey.No meeting with Turkish officials were scheduled during the brief visit to Istanbul, a senior State Department official who was not authorized to speak publicly about Pompeo’s agenda said last week.The stop in Turkey will focus on promoting religious freedom and fighting religious persecution, which is a key priority for the U.S. administration, the official said.Pompeo will discuss religious issues with the Ecumenical Patriarch of Constantinople Bartholomew I, considered the “first among equals” in the Orthodox world, and with the apostolic nuncio to Turkey, Archbishop Paul Russell.The trip will also include visits to Israeli settlements in the West Bank that have been avoided by previous secretaries of state.Before the scheduled meetings with Macron and his foreign minister, Pompeo laid a bouquet of red, white and blue flowers at a memorial to victims of terrorism at a Paris landmark, the Hotel des Invalides.The ceremony lasted about a minute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/after-congratulating-joe-biden-france-s-macron-sees-donald-trump-s-envoy/story-jVybQLmeifwEG0R8Qrp6dJ.html
16-11-2020||World||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson self-isolates after MP he met tests positive for Covid-19||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said on Monday he is “bursting with antibodies” after going into self-isolation for coming in contact with a Conservative lawmaker last week who later tested positive for Covid-19.Later it the day, it was learnt that four more Conservative MPs were self-isolating after having PM Johnson: South Ribble MP Katherine Fletcher, Warrington South MP Andy Carter, Great Grimsby MP Lia Nici and Bassetlaw MP Brendan Clarke-Smith.The developments came as UK health officials announced two new “mega-labs” with 600,000 more daily coronavirus testing capacity and faster results.New daily Covid-19 cases in the UK continued to rise, with another five-fold increase compared to the previous peaks in April and May. As of Sunday evening, 24,962 new cases were recorded, besides 168 deaths and 1,922 patients admitted to hospitals in the last 24 hours.Johnson, who had a bout of Covid-19 in March-April, went into self-isolation for 14 days after being informed that MP Lee Anderson whom he met had tested positive for the virus. The prime minister’s spokesman said he did not have any symptoms of the disease and will continue to work.Johnson said in a video message on Monday, “It doesn’t matter that we were all doing social distancing, it doesn’t matter that I’m fit as a butcher’s dog, feel great - so many people do in my circumstances.“And actually it doesn’t matter that I’ve had the disease and I’m bursting with antibodies. We’ve got to interrupt the spread of the disease, and one of the ways we can do that now is by self-isolating for 14 days when contacted by test and trace.”British health officials said two new “very high throughput” laboratories will open in early 2021 in Leamington Spa, Warwickshire, and in Scotland, adding capacity to test for Covid-19 and also in future for other illnesses, including cancer, cardiovascular and metabolic diseases. They will use cutting-edge technology, including automation, robotics and consumables.The UK’s health secretary Matt Hancock said, “The radical expansion of testing has been one of the successes of this pandemic… We didn’t go into this crisis with a significant diagnostics industry, but we have built one, and these two mega-labs are another step forward.”Since the start of the pandemic, testing capacity in the UK has grown from 100,000 tests per day at the end of April to over 500,000 tests per day at the end of October.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/british-prime-minister-boris-johnson-self-isolates-after-mp-he-met-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-pC9MJ00QVbiR6n7sNVb99N.html
16-11-2020||World||Islamabad under partial seige over anti-France protest by extremists||Hundreds of protestors of an extremist religious group on Monday laid partial siege to the national capital to denounce the publication of blasphemous cartoons in a French magazine and force the government to expel the French ambassador.Tehreek-i-Labaik Pakistan (TLP) of controversial cleric Khadim Hussain Rizvi organised the protest march on the Murree Road of the garrison city of Rawalpindi on Sunday.Riot police had to resort to teargas shelling against the stone-pelting TLP protesters who successfully reached the Faizabad interchange connecting Rawalpindi and Islamabad, where they launched their sit-in.Though Rizvi did not join them at the sit-in but his representatives were leading the protestors who refused to move away until the basic demand to send back the French envoy was fulfilled.The TLP first came to limelight in 2017 when it protested against some changes in the oath of elected representatives and organised about a three-week long sit-in at Faizabad, paralyzing life in Islamabad.The TLP lifted the siege when then Pakistan Muslim League(N) government led by Nawaz Sharif fired its law minister.The then opposition leader Imran Khan had supported the TLP demand as he was trying to topple the PML-N government. However, now he faces a similar dilemma, showing that extremists are a threat to everyone, sources saidLike it has done in the past, the Islamabad administration reacted by sealing the Red Zone, having important offices, and blocked all roads leading to the diplomatic enclave, housing foreign missions.So far none of the government representatives tried to broker a deal with the protestors.Last night, police and protesters clashed for hours, leaving several people injured. Police claimed to have arrested about 200 protestors.Mobile service remained suspended in Rawalpindi region and Islamabad while the internet was slow, making communication difficult, local print and electronic continued to ignore the protest.Rizvi is considered a controversial cleric and was arrested for asking army troops to rebel against the army chief. He spent several months in jail before being released in May 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/islamabad-under-partial-seige-over-anti-france-protest-by-extremists/story-56VWgTveHSCGNMF2kl7svM.html
16-11-2020||World||Japan’s foreign minister says Tokyo looks to deepen US ties||Japanese Foreign Minister Toshimitsu Motegi said Monday that Japan hopes to deepen its alliance with the United States under President-elect Joe Biden and do more to get its ally continuously committed to regional security and other key international issues.Motegi, discussing Japanese diplomacy at the Japan National Press Club, said his country hopes to pursue cooperation with the Biden administration to achieve the “Free and Open Indo-Pacific,” or FOIP, vision of economic and security cooperation in the face of China’s growing assertiveness.With the US increasingly focusing on how to rebuild its social divide and economy, Japan will have to take more of a share of the Japan-US security alliance, Motegi said.This would involve not just more spending for hosting the 50,000-plus American troops in Japan under the countries’ bilateral pact, but would also mean an increase of Japan’s own military capability and spending, experts say.At a time when the United States is largely focusing on internal politics, “How to secure the US commitment to international security, climate change and the Free and Open Indo-Pacific vision is a major diplomatic challenge for Japan,” Motegi said.Japan has been pursuing the FOIP with the US and they have formed a four-way cooperation that also includes Australia and India. They are trying to bring in other countries in Southeast Asia and beyond that share concerns about China’s increasing assertiveness in the region.Japan is opposed to any Chinese attempts to “unilaterally change the status quo” by force in the East and South China Seas and has promoted the FOIP concept with the United States to counter China’s growing influence. Japan has its own territorial disputes with China over Japanese-controlled islands in the East China Sea that Beijing also claims.With the US-China row expected to continue under the Biden administration, Japan, as a key economic partner and neighbor of China, also hopes to play a role in encouraging Beijing to play by international rules and act responsibly as a global giant, Motegi said.Japan’s new prime minister, Yoshihide Suga, is carrying on the policy and is trying to get more countries to join.Japan has also been setting up strategic defense partnerships with other Asia-Pacific nations such as Australia, as well as Europe.Suga is to hold talks with visiting Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison on Tuesday to discuss stepping up bilateral defense cooperation and other regional issues at a time of the US leadership transition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-s-foreign-minister-says-tokyo-looks-to-deepen-us-ties/story-poxlsSJtyTocNHop28oPnI.html
16-11-2020||World||Moderna says its vaccine is 94.5% effective in preventing Covid-19||Moderna Inc (MRNA.O) said on Monday its experimental vaccine was 94.5% effective in preventing Covid-19 based on interim data from a late-stage clinical trial, becoming the second U.S. company in a week to report results that far exceed expectations.Together with Pfizer Inc’s (PFE.N) vaccine, also shown to be more than 90% effective, and pending more safety data and regulatory review, the United States could have two vaccines authorized for emergency use in December with as many as 60 million doses of vaccine available by the year’s end.Next year, the U.S. government could have access to more than 1 billion doses just from the two vaccine makers, more than needed for the country’s 330 million residents.The vaccines, both built using new technology known as messenger RNA or mRNA, represent powerful new tools to fight a pandemic that has infected 54 million people worldwide and killed 1.3 million. The news also comes at time when Covid-19 cases are soaring, hitting new records in the United States and pushing some European countries back into lockdowns.“We are going to have a vaccine that can stop Covid-19,” Moderna President Stephen Hoge said in a telephone interview.Moderna’s interim analysis was based on 95 infections among trial participants who received either a placebo or the vaccine. Of those, only five infections occurred in those who received the vaccine, which is administered in two shots 28 days apart.A key advantage of Moderna’s vaccine is that it does not need ultra-cold storage like Pfizer’s, making it easier to distribute. Moderna expects it to be stable at standard refrigerator temperatures of 2 to 8 degrees Celsius (36 to 48°F) for 30 days and it can be stored for up to 6 months at -20 degrees Celsius.Pfizer’s vaccine must be shipped and stored at minus 70 degrees Celsius, the sort of temperature typical of an Antarctic winter. At standard refrigerator temperatures, it can be stored for up to five days.The data from Moderna’s 30,000 participant-strong trial also showed the vaccine prevented cases of severe Covid-19, a question that still remains with the Pfizer vaccine. Of the 95 cases in Moderna’s trial, 11 were severe and all 11 occurred among volunteers who got the placebo.Moderna, part of the U.S. government’s Operation Warp Speed program, expects to produce around 20 million doses of the vaccine for the United States this year, millions of which the company has already made, and is ready to ship if it receives FDA authorization.“Assuming we get an emergency use authorization, we’ll be ready to ship through Warp Speed almost in hours,” Hoge said. “So it could start being distributed instantly.”  DATA DETAILS The 95 cases of Covid-19 included several key groups who are at increased risk for severe disease, including 15 cases in adults aged 65 and older and 20 in participants from racially diverse groups.Most side effects were mild to moderate. A significant proportion of volunteers, however, experienced more severe aches and pains after taking the second dose, including about 10% who had fatigue severe enough to interfere with daily activities while another 9% had severe body aches. Most of these complaints were generally short-lived, the company said.Moderna’s data provide further validation of the promising but previously unproven mRNA platform, which turns the human body into a vaccine factory by coaxing cells to make certain virus proteins that the immune system sees as a threat and mounts a response against.Moderna expects to have enough safety data required for U.S. authorization in the next week or so and the company expects to file for emergency use authorization in the coming weeks.The United States has the world’s highest known number of Covid-19 cases and deaths with more than 11 million infections and nearly 250,000 deaths.The Trump Administration has primarily relied on development of vaccines and treatments as its response to the pandemic. Moderna has received nearly $1 billion in research and development funding from the U.S. government and has a $1.5 billion deal for 100 million doses. The U.S. government also has an option for another 400 million doses.The company hopes to have between 500 million and 1 billion doses in 2021, split between its U.S. and international manufacturing sites and dependent in part on demand.The U.S. government has said Covid-19 vaccines will be provided free to Americans, whether they have health insurance, are uninsured or are covered by government health programs such as Medicare.Moderna also said it will use its data to seek authorization in Europe and other regions.Other countries such as China and Russia have already begun vaccinations. Russia licensed its “Sputnik-V” Covid-19 vaccine for domestic use in August before it released data from large-scale trials. It said on Nov. 11 that its vaccine was 92% effective based on 20 infections in its large trial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/moderna-says-its-vaccine-is-94-5-effective-in-preventing-covid-19/story-TjF3qAJZxNUn9D7YIhCO3K.html
16-11-2020||World||Donald Trump tweets words ‘he won’; says vote rigged, not conceding||President Donald Trump worked to take back an apparent acknowledgement that Joe Biden won the White House and was making clear he would keep trying to overturn the election result.Trump’s earlier comments Sunday had given some critics and supporters hope that the White House was ready to begin working on a transition with Biden’s team. Not so fast, Trump soon assured.Trump, without using Biden’s name, said that “He won” as part of a tweet that made baseless claims about a “rigged” election. But as the Republican president saw how his comments were being interpreted as his first public acknowledgment of a Biden victory, he quickly reversed course.“He only won in the eyes of the FAKE NEWS MEDIA,” Trump subsequently tweeted. “I concede NOTHING! We have a long way to go. This was a RIGGED ELECTION!”There was no widespread fraud in the 2020 election. In fact, election officials from both political parties stated publicly that the election went well, and international observers confirmed there were no serious irregularities. Trump’s campaign has tried to mount legal challenges across the country, but many of the lawsuits have been thrown out and none has included any evidence that the outcome might be reversed.Biden, a Democrat, defeated Trump by winning back a trio of battleground states: Michigan, Wisconsin and Pennsylvania, and topped the 270 electoral vote threshold to clinch the presidency. Biden so far has 78.8 million votes, the most ever by a winning candidate, to Trump’s 73.1 million.“If the president’s prepared to begin to recognize that reality, that’s positive,” Biden’s incoming chief of staff, Ron Klain, told NBC’s “Meet the Press.” Still, Klain said, “Donald Trump’s Twitter feed doesn’t make Joe Biden president or not president. The American people did that.”A Republican governor, Arkansas’ Asa Hutchinson, said “it was good, actually” to see Trump’s tweet that Biden won. “I think that’s the start of an acknowledgment. ... We want to make sure that there is a smooth transition,” Hutchinson said on NBC.Nearly two weeks after Election Day, Trump has neither called Biden nor made a formal concession, and White House officials have insisted that they are preparing for a second term.Former President Barack Obama, in an interview conducted and aired Sunday on CBS’ “60 Minutes,” said he would remind Trump that, as president, he is a public servant and a temporary occupant of the office.“And when your time is up then it is your job to put the country first and think beyond your own ego, and your own interests, and your own disappointments,” Obama said. “My advice to President Trump is, if you want at this late stage in the game to be remembered as somebody who put country first, it’s time for you to do the same thing.”Obama also criticized those Republicans going along with Trump’s false claims of widespread voter fraud.“I’m more troubled by the fact that other Republican officials who clearly know better are going along with this, are humoring him in this fashion. It is one more step in delegitimizing not just the incoming Biden administration, but democracy generally. And that’s a dangerous path,” he said.In recent days, Trump appeared to be inching closer to acknowledging the reality of his loss. In comments Friday in the Rose Garden about a coronavirus vaccine, Trump said his administration would “not be going to a lockdown” to slow the spread of COVID-19, and added that “whatever happens in the future, who knows which administration it will be? I guess time will tell.”Trump on Sunday renewed his groundless attacks on an election technology firm, Dominion Voting Systems, without evidence of any serious irregularities. Dominion has said it “denies claims about any vote switching or alleged software issues with our voting systems.”The Cybersecurity & Infrastructure Security Agency, a federal agency that oversees U.S. election security, said in a statement last week that the “November 3rd election was the most secure in American history.” The agency said, ”There is no evidence that any voting system deleted or lost votes, changed votes, or was in any way compromised.”John Bolton, a former Trump national security adviser, said it was important for Republican Party leaders to explain to voters that Trump did lose and that his claims of election fraud are baseless. Bolton left the administration last year. He says he resigned; Trump says he fired Bolton.“I think as every day goes by, it’s clearer and clearer there isn’t any evidence. But if the Republican voters are only hearing Donald Trump’s misrepresentations, it’s not surprising that they believe it,” Bolton said on ABC’s “This Week.” “It’s critical for other Republican leaders to stand up and explain what actually happened. Donald Trump lost what by any evidence we have so far was a free and fair election.”Having none of that was Rudy Giuliani, the president’s personal attorney who is helping lead Trump’s national legal front on the election challenge. In a television appearance that Trump previewed on Twitter after his morning tweets, Giuliani denied Trump was conceding — “No, no, no, far from it.”“I guess,’‘ Giuliani told Fox News Channel’s ”Sunday Morning Futures,” “you would call it sarcastic.”___Associated Press writers Will Weissert in Wilmington, Delaware, and Zeke Miller in Washington contributed to this report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-tweets-words-he-won-says-vote-rigged-not-conceding/story-bDnvXNI3KsxmwP21iN1iCK.html
16-11-2020||World||Women struggle to access abortion as coronavirus pandemic adds to hurdles in Europe||Helplines across Europe have reported higher demand for their services as the coronavirus pandemic adds to the hurdles many women face to access abortion.While abortion is legal in most of Europe, some women have struggled to get appointments in public health systems overwhelmed by the pandemic. Others could not escape abusive partners because of lockdowns, non-governmental organisations and some women who chose to have an abortion told Reuters.In countries where abortion is highly restricted, such as Poland, women found themselves unable to travel abroad to terminate an unwanted pregnancy as the pandemic grounded flights and closed borders. “In some cases it made abortion catastrophically more complicated,” said Mara Clarke, head of the UK-based Abortion Support Network (ASN), which helps women get abortions abroad.Sending abortion pills by post, a common practice for organisations helping women in places where it is not widely available, became difficult because packages were taking weeks to be delivered.When she found out she was pregnant in April, mother-of-two Ania, from Warsaw in Poland, said she had experienced two miscarriages and decided it was not the right time to have another baby.“It was intense ... really hard,” she said. “If it wasn’t for the pandemic I would have gone to another country - to Slovakia or the Czech Republic.”Ania, who declined to give her surname for fear of stigma, eventually managed to terminate her pregnancy with help from Women on Web, an NGO which supports women in her situation.She is one of thousands of people now protesting in Poland against a court ruling last month that could amount to a near-total ban on abortion in the staunchly Roman Catholic country.“Dangerous”Abortion Without Borders, a helpline in Poland that launched in December 2019, has received nearly 2,300 calls this year, with a jump in requests for help since a lockdown was announced. Women in the island-nation of Malta, the only country in Europe where abortion is banned, and where the airport was shut for months due to Covid-19, were the worst hit, Clarke said.Calls from Malta to an ASN helpline almost doubled, from 44 in 2019 to 83 this year. In Romania, where abortion is legal within a 14-week limit, some women struggled to access services as the government deemed it a “non-essential procedure” as its healthcare system battled the coronavirus, women’s rights groups said. Romania-based FILIA said in April only 11 per cent of 112 state hospitals surveyed were providing abortions, and none in the capital Bucharest. Experts fear restrictions to tackle a second wave of the coronavirus in Europe will create further challenges, especially in countries where healthcare systems are under-resourced.Marie Stopes International, a non-profit organisation providing contraception and abortion services, has estimated an additional 2.7 million unsafe abortions will take place worldwide as a result of health service disruptions.“The pandemic had an impact on reproductive health as a whole - because it was not considered a priority,” said one of Portugal’s top obstetricians Teresa Bombas.Rebecca Gomperts, founder of Women on Web, said remote working and lockdowns also created problems for some women with controlling partners as they were unable to leave home.Requests to Women on Web have been higher this year than the group expected based on previous years, particularly in Portugal - where the procedure is provided mostly in a hospital setting - with 34 demands, and in Northern Ireland - where abortion was decriminalised in 2019 - with 97.Some governments have taken steps to tackle the issue. In Britain, where abortion is legal in England, Scotland and Wales within a 24-week limit, women can now take abortion pills at home instead of going to hospital and some consultations have moved online.“We have seen such colossal advantages,” said Jonathan Lord, Marie Stopes UK’s medical director, who hopes the measure will become permanent. But rights groups say many more will face a struggle in the coming months because of the economic damage caused by the pandemic.“Half of all pregnancies are unplanned and people will look at the economic forecast right now and decide not to do it,” Clarke said. “We are in for a very hard 2021.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/women-struggle-to-access-abortion-as-coronavirus-pandemic-adds-to-hurdles-in-europe/story-92wN8VkvFTRA1gUuuDxKxJ.html
16-11-2020||World||Donald Trump rushes environmental regulations that could handcuff Joe Biden||The Trump administration is rushing to issue permits, finalize major environmental regulations and even sell the rights to drill for oil in Alaskan wilderness before Inauguration Day in a push that could complicate Joe Biden’s climate and conservation agenda.The 11th-hour regulatory race underscores the extent to which federal agencies are anticipating Biden’s swearing-in as US president on January 20 even as President Donald Trump refuses to concede the election. It also reveals a widespread effort by Trump officials to leave their imprint on federal policy and -- at least temporarily -- tie the hands of their successors.“Everyone has to be vigilant over the next 60-odd days because the administration can create more work for the people coming in,” said David Hayes, a former deputy Interior secretary who leads New York University’s State Energy and Environmental Impact Center. “They can take additional actions here that will put sand in the gears of the early Biden administration.”Already, the Trump administration is poised as soon as Monday to advance plans for selling drilling rights in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, despite Biden’s vow to protect that Alaskan wilderness. And officials are reviewing measures that would lift criminal penalties for accidentally killing migratory birds, lock in existing air pollution limits and make it harder to impose new environmental safeguards.Altogether, the White House Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs that is in charge of reviewing proposed rules is looking at 23 measures submitted just since Election Day, foreshadowing the coming deluge.While Biden officials can unwind many Trump rules, that will consume time and resources, even as the incoming administration intends to write new measures regarding pollution, energy efficiency and drilling regulations.And the Biden administration probably won’t have help from Congress immediately on overturning rules under the Congressional Review Act, since Republicans are likely to maintain control of the Senate. The law makes it easier to repeal last-minute regulations enacted by an outgoing administration.“They have to clean up this huge mess that’s been deliberately left behind before they can even start advancing their affirmative agenda,” said James Goodwin, an analyst with the Center for Progressive Reform.“The story for the last four years is how can we tear down these agencies and make them as useless as possible,” Goodwin said. “The next few weeks is going to be dedicated to that, and they will not miss a trick when it comes to making the Biden administration’s life a misery.”For instance, the White House just began scrutinizing a final rule to end criminal penalties for oil explorers, homebuilders and other companies that accidentally kill migratory birds, setting the stage for the Interior Department to finalize the measure within weeks. And on Thursday, the White House started reviewing a rule defining the “habitat” that gets protection under the Endangered Species Act, just four weeks after the deadline for public comments on the proposed measure.The Energy Department is trying to finish regulations weakening energy efficiency standards for furnaces and other appliances. That includes a rule greenlighting high-flow shower heads with multiple nozzles -- a measure that drew momentum after Trump complained that with more efficient models “you can’t wash your beautiful hair properly.”EPA RegulationsThe Environmental Protection Agency is rushing to codify decisions to retain existing air quality limits on ozone and particulate matter, rebuffing public health advocates’ calls to tighten the pollution standards.The administration also is propelling regulations that go to the heart of federal agencies’ power.For instance, Trump’s EPA is close to finalizing two measures that could make it harder to impose pollution curbs. One would block the agency from relying on scientific research that isn’t or can’t be made public. Another would limit how the agency calculates the costs and benefits of future regulations.It’s customary for administrations to finalize a spate of rules during their final months in office, with a final spurt of so-called midnight regulations.“One big difference from the recent past is that because Trump is only a one-term president, there is more for EPA to rush to finalize then when we’ve had two-term presidents,” observed Amit Narang, a regulatory policy expert with the watchdog group Public Citizen. “But there is a real risk that anything EPA rushes out the door in sloppy fashion will get struck down in court, just like so many of EPA’s rollbacks under Trump have been.”Though Inauguration Day is still nine weeks away, the regulatory clock may run out sooner. The enforcement of any final rules that haven’t become binding by Jan. 20 can be postponed by a new administration, buying time for a rewrite. Because there is a 60-day waiting period for major rules to come into force, the Trump administration actually needs to get those measures published in the Federal Register by Nov. 21.Federal RegisterThe EPA already is trying to beat that clock with an air permitting regulation teed up for publication in the Federal Register on Nov. 19, just two days before the cutoff.The push goes beyond well-telegraphed rules to permitting decisions and project approvals that may be harder to undo.For example, the Interior Department is fast-tracking a proposal to conduct seismic surveys in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge -- an industrial operation designed to help pinpoint possible oil reserves that environmentalists say risks scarring the tundra and trampling polar bears in snow-covered dens.Adam Kolton, executive director of the Alaska Wilderness League said he’s deeply concerned the Interior Department is trying “to jam this massive seismic program through in the final minutes of the Trump administration,” without enough environmental review and against the wishes of the American people. “It’s Defcon one on the level of concern list,” Kolton added.Last-Minute PushWhile regulations can be undone, the Biden administration could not repair damage if heavy seismic vehicles roll into to the refuge and begin work, Kolton said. “If you want to throw a hand grenade in the middle of the Interior Department transition team, this would be the way to do it,” he said.The Trump administration is also advancing plans to sell drilling rights in the refuge before Jan. 20. It’s not clear that the Interior Department would have time to formally issue any leases sold in the final weeks before Inauguration Day, but every step advancing Arctic oil development could complicate a Biden administration retreat.Oil companies also can expect a few more chances to buy up drilling rights in other parts of the US, including during a Trump administration sale of coveted New Mexico territory Jan. 14.The last-minute push is essential, said Tom Pyle, the president of the American Energy Alliance, a free-market advocacy group that has cheered much of Trump’s deregulatory agenda.“Even as President Trump and his legal team continue to explore their options, it is critical that his agencies to put a full-court press on getting the remainder of his agenda across the finish line as an insurance policy,” Pyle said. “Joe Biden did not receive a mandate from voters to upend all the gains that President Trump made with respect to our energy independence.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-rushes-environmental-regulations-that-could-handcuff-joe-biden/story-Dfjr1GODPrHKcP9sQzr8QP.html
16-11-2020||World||UN-led Libya talks end without naming interim government||Libya’s rival sides wrapped up a week of UN-brokered talks without agreeing on a transitional government that would lead the county to an election in December next year, the top UN official for Libya said Monday.The political forum, which concluded late Sunday in Tunisia, was the latest effort to end the chaos that engulfed the oil-rich North African nation after the 2011 overthrow and killing of dictator Moammar Gadhafi.The main goal of the gathering was to draw a roadmap for presidential and parliamentary elections. The participants agreed to hold the vote on Dec. 24, 2021, but failed to name a transitional administration to lead the war-torn country.UN acting envoy for Libya Stephanie Williams told reporters in Tunisia that the 75-member forum did not discuss names during their week-long talks. The Libyan rivals would meet again, online and within a week, to agree on a mechanism to name the next government, she said.The UN had selected 75 delegates from Libya to take part in the week-long forum at a luxury hotel in the Mediterranean town of Gammarth, just outside the capital of Tunis. Williams said on Sunday night that she was “very pleased with the outcome” of the gathering.The talks took place amid heavy international pressure after the warring sides agreed to a UN-brokered cease-fire agreement last month in Geneva.Libya is split between a UN-supported government in the capital, Tripoli, and rival authorities based in the east. The two sides are backed by an array of local militias, as well as regional and foreign powers.Eastern Libya forces, led by commander Khalifa Hifter, launched an offensive in April 2019 to try and capture Tripoli. His campaign collapsed in June, when the Tripoli-allied militias, with heavy Turkish support, pushed Hifter’s forces away from Tripoli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-led-libya-talks-end-without-naming-interim-government/story-lsSwaCbuPWXfWeEoIvSodO.html
16-11-2020||World||Peru left without president as Merino resigns after protest deaths||Peru was without a president Monday after Congress failed to agree on a successor to interim leader Manuel Merino, who resigned following days of street protests against him.Merino announced he was stepping down Sunday, following an ultimatum from Congress for him to quit or face censure after a police crackdown on protesters left at least two dead and scores injured.“I want to let the whole country know that I’m resigning,” said Merino, 59, in a televised address, sparking celebrations in the capital Lima following street protests against the ousting of his popular predecessor.Congress now has to name Merino’s successor to become the country’s third president in a week.Merino only assumed office on Tuesday, a day after the assembly impeached predecessor Martin Vizcarra on corruption charges. As speaker of Congress, he was next in line as the post of vice president was vacant.A crisis session of Congress failed to agree on a new president Sunday night. Leftist legislator and former human rights activist Rocio Silva Santisteban, supposedly a consensus candidate, needed 60 votes but she only got 42, with 52 against and 25 abstentions.“Congress had in its hands the solution to this political crisis that they generated. However, today they have turned their backs on the country,” former economy minister Vizcarra Maria Antonieta Alva tweeted.Party whips then held a closed-door meeting as thousands of protesters remained peacefully on the streets, undisturbed by police.Thousands have taken to the streets in days of protests against Merino, who had launched the first, unsuccessful, impeachment proceedings against Vizcarra in September.Elections are scheduled for April 2021 and Merino was due to leave office in July, when Vizcarra’s mandate was to end.The Congress ultimatum came after the health ministry said two protesters were killed on Saturday during a massive march in Lima, which was repressed by police firing shotgun pellets and tear gas.Merino said that to avoid a “power vacuum” the 18 ministers he swore in on Thursday would temporarily remain in their posts, though almost all had resigned in the wake of Saturday’s crackdown on protests.His resignation was greeted by noisy celebrations in Lima, with demonstrators sounding horns and banging pots.“We succeeded. Do you realize what we are capable of doing?” Peru national soccer team midfielder Renato Tapia wrote on social media.Some lawmakers questioned the wisdom of removing Vizcarra in the midst of the coronavirus pandemic and a crippling recession.The pandemic has hit Peru hard, with the politically fragile country having the world’s highest per capita death rate -- with nearly 35,000 fatalities -- and GDP plunging over 30 percent in the second quarter.- Police criticized -Vizcarra, 57, welcomed his rival’s resignation, having questioned the legality of his dismissal last week.“A dictatorship has left the palace,” he told reporters outside his home in Lima, adding that Merino “was breaking our democracy.”The popular former president did not rule out a return to his mandate and urged an early ruling on a constitutional challenge to his November 9 dismissal.“It is essential that the Constitutional Court make a statement urgently and say whether what the congressmen did on the 9th is legal,” said Vizcarra.Thousands of mostly young protesters took to the streets Saturday to oppose what they called a parliamentary coup against Vizcarra.A crackdown by police left at least two dead and 94 injured, according to health ministry officials. But the National Human Rights Coordinator said 112 were injured and warned that a dozen had also “disappeared” during the protests.The violent repression of the protests eroded whatever political support Merino had and the head of Congress called for his immediate resignation.The police tactics have been criticized by the UN and rights organizations such as Amnesty International since the protests began on Tuesday.The Inter-American Commission on Human Rights regretted the deaths of the two protesters and demanded “an immediate investigation of the facts and to establish responsibility.”Vizcarra had broad support since succeeding Pedro Pablo Kuczynski, the former Wall Street banker who was forced to resign under threat of impeachment over corruption allegations in 2018.Congress impeached and dismissed Vizcarra on Monday over allegations he took kickbacks from developers when he was governor of the Moquegua region in 2014, charges he denies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/peru-left-without-president-as-merino-resigns-after-protest-deaths/story-L5VBfVz3NvgCKdCtcP2XQK.html
16-11-2020||World||Americans across party lines, regions embrace marijuana||Bill Stocker could be considered the archetype of a conservative voter: He’s a retired Marine and former police officer who voted for President Donald Trump. But he’s also among the majority of South Dakota voters who broadly legalized marijuana this month.Stocker, 61, said enforcing marijuana laws gets in the way of pursuing other drug crimes and called warnings about the ills of marijuana “a bunch of baloney” that even people in a Republican stronghold like South Dakota no longer believe.South Dakota’s values of “personal responsibility and freedom” won out, said Stocker, who lives in Sioux Falls.Also Read: Donald Trump admits Joe Biden ‘won’, but insists US election was ‘rigged’The 2020 election helped prove how broadly accepted marijuana has become throughout the United States, with measures to legalize recreational pot also breezing to victory in progressive New Jersey, moderate Arizona and conservative Montana. Fifteen states have now broadly legalized it, while 36 states allow medical marijuana.Voters in Mississippi overwhelmingly approved medical marijuana this month, giving the drug another foothold in the South.A Gallup Poll released Nov. 9 indicated that 68% of Americans favor legalizing marijuana — double the approval rate in 2003. That wide margin was evident in the election, with marijuana measures passing with strong bipartisan support.In South Dakota and Montana — where Republicans swept to victory in the key races — recreational marijuana passed with at least 16 percentage points more support than Democratic President-elect Joe Biden received. South Dakota also approved medical pot, which outpolled Biden by 34 percentage points.“We’ve waged a war against this plant for a century and by any reasonable metric, that war has been an abject failure,” said Matthew Schweich, deputy director of the Marijuana Policy Project, which favors legalization. “All it’s done is incarcerate millions of Americans, it has perpetuated racism in this country, and perhaps the worst injustice of all is that it’s deprived us of medical marijuana research.”Marijuana is still illegal at the federal level, hurting veterans who can’t be prescribed medical pot at Veterans Affairs clinics, he said.They “come home with chronic pain and we’re pushing them to opioids,” Schweich said. “That’s crazy. That’s unpatriotic and it’s a disgrace.”Support for legalization was around 25% in 1992 when then-presidential candidate Bill Clinton tried to avoid answering questions about whether he had used marijuana before finally saying in a television interview that he had experimented with the drug, didn’t like it and “didn’t inhale.”In early 2019, Kamala Harris — now the vice president-elect — was asked about her prior marijuana use during a radio interview and acknowledged: “I did inhale.”Brendan Johnson, a former U.S. attorney in South Dakota who supported the state’s marijuana initiatives, said the campaign focused on the fact that in recent years 10% of arrests in the state were for marijuana, and most were small amounts.“We have a real problem here where we have criminalized an entire generation of South Dakotans, and we’re paying a price,” Johnson said.The owner of a chain of medical marijuana dispensaries in Billings, Montana, credited passage of the recreational marijuana initiative to a yearslong campaign by medical marijuana supporters to educate the public about the benefits of cannabis.“There has been a considerable change in the political demographic because people are educated, because they know Aunt Margaret tried it for her cancer and she can eat,” said Richard Abromeit, owner of Montana Advanced Caregivers.Advocates’ next goal is to get marijuana removed from a federal list of illegal drugs with no accepted medical use and high potential for abuse. The listing prevents labs from researching potential medical remedies using marijuana.House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer told lawmakers last week that he would hold a vote in December on a bill that would decriminalize cannabis, create a process to expunge nonviolent pot convictions and remove the drug from the Controlled Substances Act. It’s not clear if the bill could pass both chambers.Also Read: Cases filed by people show ‘unconstitutionality’ of election: Donald TrumpThe outcome of two runoff elections in Georgia could determine how the issue might fare in the Senate, where Republican Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has impeded its progress.Other states are expected to consider marijuana legislation next year, which could put more pressure on Congress to act.Supporters argue that the industry creates jobs and raises tax money to help prop up governments that are hurting because of business closures tied to the Covid-19 pandemic.But some oppose broad legalization.Republican Gov. Kristi Noem of South Dakota argued that marijuana leads people to use other, more-addictive drugs, while law enforcement officers and prosecutors in Montana asserted that legal pot would lead to more drugged driving and other crimes, while exacerbating mental health issues.The Gallup Poll says just under half of Republicans, people who identify as politically conservative and those who attend church on a weekly basis say they think marijuana should be legal.The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, widely known as the Mormon church, strongly opposed Arizona’s broad legalization measure despite supporting medical marijuana in Utah.Chris Nylen, 50, of Flagstaff, Arizona, is a Trump supporter who voted to legalize recreational marijuana. She said her feelings evolved after a CBD pill, made from hemp and prescribed by a veterinarian, eased her dog’s anxiety and arthritis.“I’m so old school,” she said. “I personally don’t have a desire for it, but (I’m) seeing the benefits for my dog.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/americans-across-party-lines-regions-embrace-marijuana/story-tWkhII9xeFGVuIvIG178bK.html
16-11-2020||World||UK PM Boris Johnson says he is well and will govern by Zoom after Covid-19 contact||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said he was well after coming into contact with someone with Covid-19 and will drive the government forward via Zoom while in self-isolation in Downing Street.Johnson said on Sunday he had been told by the NHS Test & Trace scheme to self-isolate for two weeks. Smiling and wearing a jumper with an open shirt, Johnson said in a video posted on Twitter that he was as “fit as a butcher’s dog.”“I’m bursting with antibodies,” Johnson said. “Plenty more to say via Zoom of course and other means of electronic communication.”Ministers said Johnson was fine. “He’s well, he’s absolutely full of beans,” Health Secretary Matt Hancock told Sky News. “He’ll be, I’ve got no doubt, driving things forward this week by Zoom.”When Johnson caught Covid-19 in March, he tried to work through the illness “in denial” - but ended up wearing an oxygen mask in an intensive care unit and was ultimately out of action for almost a month.He later said he had fought for his life as the state prepared for the unthinkable: the possible death in office of a prime minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-pm-boris-johnson-says-he-is-well-and-will-govern-by-zoom-after-covid-19-contact/story-RY2Wq1Lpie6iZOM06PkTVN.html
16-11-2020||World||Obama urges media to rebuild social trust; ‘the country is divided’||Former US president Barack Obama, in an interview to CBS News on Sunday, said that they have to work with the media and the tech companies to find ways to inform the public better about the issues and bolster the standards to ensure that they can separate truth from fiction.“I do think the current media environment adds to that greatly. This democracy doesn’t work if we don’t have an informed citizenry. This democracy doesn’t work if we don’t have responsible elected officials at other levels who are willing to call the president when he’s not doing something right, call him on it”, Obama said.Obama said that not just politicians, even the voters are divided now as the priority is to “beat the other guy” rather than discussing issues, facts and policies, and the current media environment adds to that greatly.He added, “It’s not just the politicians now. The voters are divided. It has now become a contest where issues, facts, policies per se don’t matter as much as identity and wanting to beat the other guy. You know, that’s taken priority.Read more | Violence erupts in Washington as Trump supporters clash with counterprotesters In the run up to the 2020 US presidential election, the political divide between the supporters of President Donald Trump and his democratic challenger Biden got deeper with political analysts predicting that almost half of the US was likely to feel betrayed by the result. Trump and Biden voters expressed strikingly different views on different issues.  “We need to make sure our kids have a safe playground to play in.’ And at that level, I don’t think people have that kind of -- visceral hatred. And that’s where we have to start in terms of rebuilding the social trust, we need for democracy to work,” the 59 year old Obama said. Watch EJ Espresso: Obama’s remark on Rahul stirs row; Pfizer volunteers report side effects||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/obama-urges-media-to-rebuild-social-trust-the-country-is-divided/story-XXaotJoLFK19SGWDttBl1N.html
16-11-2020||World||Europe needs its own sovereignty in defence, even with new US govt: Emmanuel Macron||Europe still needs its own independent and sovereign defence strategy, even if it is dealing with a new US government which may result in friendlier ties, French President Emmanuel Macron told the “Revue Grand Continent” publication.In an interview with the publication, Macron rebuffed comments from German Defence Minister Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer to Politico on Nov. 2, in which the German minister said Europe would have to remain dependent on US military protection for the near future.“I am in complete disagreement with the opinion article published in Politico by the German defence minister,” said Macron, adding he believed German Chancellor Angela Merkel shared his position on this issue.“The United States will only respect us as allies if we are serious about our own position, and if we have our own sovereignty regarding our defence,” said Macron.“We need to continue to build up our own autonomy, just as the United States does for itself, and just as China does for itself,” added Macron.Macron spoke to US President-elect Joe Biden on Nov 10, and told Biden he was ready to work with him on issues such as the climate, health, and the fight against terrorism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/europe-needs-its-own-sovereignty-in-defence-even-with-new-us-govt-emmanuel-macron/story-9SU2tCQVvh1ISs2WIDnKLK.html
16-11-2020||World||India will miss the bus to economic development by not joining RCEP: Chinese state media||India has committed a “strategic blunder” and “missed the bus” to long-term growth, Chinese state media has said about New Delhi’s decision not to join the China-led 15-country Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP), signed on Sunday at an online ceremony hosted by this year’s ASEAN chair, Vietnam.The 15 countries that signed the deal span the Asia-Pacific region including China, Japan, South Korea, Australia and New Zealand, along with the 10 members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN).Signed after eight years of negotiations, the RCEP has created the world’s largest trading bloc, aiming to boost the member nations’ economic growth that has been hit by the Covid-19-pandemic.Together, they account for around 30% of the world’s gross domestic product (GDP) and population.Also Watch l Explained: RCEP world’s largest trade deal, India’s rejection, China’s dominance “The RCEP agreement covers a market of 2.2 billion people, or almost 30% of the world’s population, with a combined GDP of $26.2 trillion or about 30% of global GDP,” official news agency Xinhua reported.It hailed the deal as “…not only a monumental achievement in East Asian regional cooperation, but more important, a victory of multilateralism and free trade”.Two major economies - the US and India - are not part of the deal. India, which had initially taken part in the negotiations, pulled out of the trade bloc last year. There are “significant outstanding issues, which remain unresolved”, New Delhi said last year before pulling out of the RCEP.New Delhi’s list of concerns includes the possibility of opening up its markets to cheap, China-made goods, with which it already has a huge bilateral trade deficit.Chinese South Asia experts were quick to criticise India for not joining the trade bloc, calling it a mistake, and blaming “interest groups” for the decision.“The Indian government argues that as China has an advantageous position in the deal, and India has a ballooning trade deficit with China, such a context would leave India in an unfair position, were it to join,” Liu Zongyi from the Centre for China-South Asia Cooperation at Shanghai Institutes for International Studies wrote in the Chinese state media.“However, most international observers believe that it’s the work of some interest groups in India, trying hard to obstruct India’s participation for their own interests, while Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Bharatiya Janata Party made concessions in order to win their support,” Liu wrote.Qian Feng, director of the research department at the National Strategy Institute at Tsinghua University, argued that New Delhi has missed the bus to the fast lane of economic recovery.“With the world’s second largest number of novel coronavirus infections so far, India may miss a new round of regional industrial reconstruction and the fast lane of economic recovery,” Qian wrote in the nationalistic tabloid, Global Times.“The Indian economy has been hit hard by Covid-19 and recorded a record contraction during the April-June quarter of 23.9%. According to an IMF estimate, it may shrink 10.3% in 2020. Though the RCEP may still leave a chance for India, it will be hard for the nation to reset its direction unless New Delhi clearly realises that its core interest has been hindered by its skewed strategy,” Qian added.A joint statement issued in November 2019 in Thailand at the end of RCEP negotiations had acknowledged India’s concerns.“India has significant outstanding issues, which remain unresolved. All RCEP participating countries will work together to resolve these outstanding issues in a mutually satisfactory way. India’s final decision will depend on satisfactory resolution of these issues,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-will-miss-the-bus-to-economic-development-by-not-joining-rcep-chinese-state-media/story-LTv6pnvOHhJ8ZOigHtyXbJ.html
16-11-2020||World||Gunmen in western Ethiopia kill at least 34 people in bus attack, says rights body||Gunmen in western Ethiopia killed at least 34 people in an attack on a bus on Saturday night, the national human rights body said on Sunday, as fears grow of a security vacuum in the country amid a military campaign in the north.The Ethiopian Human Rights Commission said the number of people killed was likely to rise after what it called a “gruesome” attack on the passenger bus in the Benishangul-Gumuz region. It said there were reports of “similar” attacks, and of people fleeing the violence, in other parts of the region.“The latest attack is a grim addition to the human cost which we bear collectively,” Daniel Bekele, commission head, said in a statement.He urged regional and federal authorities to work together on a strategy for Benishangul-Gumuz due to the “unrelenting pace” of attacks there. Armed militia men killed at least 45 people in the same region in September, according to the Ethiopian government.The violence comes amid a 12-day-old war between the Ethiopian government and the restive Tigray region in the country’s north. Experts say that conflict could encourage other ethnic groups to exploit the chaos to push for more autonomy, while the redeployment of forces to Tigray could leave other regions exposed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/gunmen-in-western-ethiopia-kill-at-least-34-people-in-bus-attack/story-jhSHBuqORWLRW7w279jJNL.html
16-11-2020||World||North Korea’s Kim orders tightening of anti-coronavirus measures: Report||North Korean leader Kim Jong Un ordered a tightening of state emergency anti-coronavirus systems in the face of the worldwide pandemic, as he presided over a meeting of the politburo of the ruling Workers Party, state news agency KCNA said on Monday.The meeting came amid economic and political uncertainty surrounding the global Covid-19 pandemic that is putting additional pressure on the North’s economy, already battered by international sanctions aimed at stopping its nuclear program.Making his first public appearance in 25 days, Kim stressed the need to keep a high alert and intensify the anti-epidemic work, KCNA reported. Also Read: Kim Jong Un breaks down in rare apology to North KoreansThe meeting discussed an unspecified “serious crime” committed by party officials at the Pyongyang University of Medicine. Other officials at the Central Committee and other government agencies “shielded, connived and fostered the crime” by failing to tighten oversight over the university, KCNA said, but did not specify if the crime was related to the coronavirus. North Korea had tested over 12,000 people and reported no confirmed cases of the coronavirus, as of early November, according to the World Health Organization.A total of 6,173 people, eight of whom were foreigners, were detected as suspected cases and 174 people were quarantined in the last week of October, the WHO said.More than 54 million people have been reported to be infected by the novel coronavirus globally and 1,312,334​ have died, according to a Reuters tally.Also Read: From ‘love’ to ‘thug’: Joe Biden win to change US-North Korea dynamicKim had called on his country to embark on an 80-day campaign to attain its goals in every sector before a congress in January to decide a new five-year plan.North Korea’s premier, Kim Tok Hun, visited a heavy machine complex and a notebook factory to the southeast of Pyongyang to discuss efforts to reach those goals, KCNA reported on Monday.“At the Taean Heavy Machine Complex, he gave pep-talks to its workers working hard to produce custom-built equipment ahead of schedule amid the intensive 80-day campaign,” KCNA reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korea-s-kim-orders-tightening-of-anti-coronavirus-measures-report/story-bpoD1Flzoyn1f5o4RXeLII.html
16-11-2020||World||J&J starts two-dose trial of its Covid-19 vaccine candidate in the UK||Johnson & Johnson launched a new late-stage trial in Britain on Monday to test a two-dose regimen of its experimental Covid-19 vaccine among thousands of volunteers, as the U.S. drugmaker expands its trials by geography and type.The UK arm of the study is aiming to recruit 6,000 participants among a total of 30,000 people globally, scientists leading the UK trial said. Volunteers will be recruited at 17 sites across the UK.Also Read: Covid vaccine would begin to be delivered at the “end of this year, beginning of next year”, says one of the vaccine creatorsThey will be given a first dose of either a placebo or the experimental shot, currently called Ad26COV2, followed by a second dose or placebo 57 days later, said Saul Faust, a professor of paediatric immunology and infectious diseases who is co-leading the trial at University Hospital Southampton.J&J signed an agreement for the two-dose global Phase III clinical trial with the British government in August, to run in parallel with a 60,000-person trial of a single shot of the experimental vaccine which was launched in September.Also Read: Covid-19 vaccine updates: Over 250 register for Covaxin trial, Sputnik-V to reach Kanpur trialIf the results of the single-shot trial are positive, the company said it could simplify distribution of millions of doses compared with leading rivals requiring two doses. The efficacy of a double-dose vaccine could be affected if people fail to return to get their a second shot.Rival drugmakers Pfizer and BioNtech said last week that their potential Covid-19 shot showed more than 90% efficacy in interim data from a late-stage trial, boosting hopes that vaccines against the pandemic disease may be ready for use soon.While the Pfizer-BioNtech vaccine uses a new technology known as messenger RNA, J&J’s uses a cold virus to deliver genetic material from the coronavirus into the body to prompt an immune response.The platform, called AdVac, is also used in an Ebola vaccine that was approved earlier this year.“It’s really important that we pursue trials of many different vaccines from many different manufacturers and be able then to ensure the supply both to the UK and global population,” Faust told reporters at a briefing.Scientists leading the UK trial did not give details of the other countries that would be involved in this two-dose trial, but said Britain is the first location to start it. Recruitment into the study will complete in March 2021 and the trial will last for 12 months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/j-j-starts-2-dose-trial-of-its-covid-19-candidate-vaccine-in-the-uk/story-9OaNw9IcwfbUkH7piooVLL.html
16-11-2020||World||Hurricane Iota heads for already battered Central America||Iota rapidly gained strength after becoming the 13th hurricane of the Atlantic season Sunday, threatening to bring more dangerous winds and rains to Nicaragua and Honduras — countries recently clobbered by Category 4 Hurricane Eta.Nicaragua’s government said authorities had begun evacuating some people near the country’s border with Honduras, an area that forecasts said likely would be in Iota’s path.Iota became a Category 2 hurricane late Sunday afternoon, and the US National Hurricane Center warned it would likely be an extremely dangerous Category 4 storm when it approached the Central America mainland late Monday.Also Read: ‘On steroids’: Hurricanes are becoming turbocharged and harder to predictIt was already a record-breaking system, being the 30th named storm of this year’s extraordinarily busy Atlantic hurricane season. Such activity has focused attention on climate change, which scientists say is causing wetter, stronger and more destructive storms.The hurricane center said Iota had maximum sustained winds of 100 mph (155 kph) early Sunday evening. It was centered about 110 miles (175 kilometers) east of Isla de Providencia, Colombia, and was moving westward at 9 mph (15 kph). Forecasters said Iota was expected to pass or cross over Providencia late Sunday or early Monday and then approach the coasts of Nicaragua and Honduras on Monday night.By Sunday evening, Nicaraguan officials said about 1.500 people had, nearly half of them children, been evacuated from low-lying areas in the country’s northeast, including all the inhabitants of Cayo Misquitos. Authorities said 83.000 people in that region were in danger.Also Read: Eta expected to be hurricane and strike Florida KeysIota threatened to wreak more havoc in a region where people are still grappling with the aftermath of Eta. That system hit Nicaragua just over a week ago as a Category 4 hurricane, killing at least 120 people as torrential rains caused flash floods and mudslides in parts of Central America and Mexico. Then it meandered across Cuba, the Florida Keys and around the Gulf of Mexico before slogging ashore again near Cedar Key, Florida, and dashing across Florida and the Carolinas.Iota was forecast to bring up to 30 inches (750 millimeters) of rain from northeast Nicaragua into northern Honduras, while Costa Rica, Panama and El Salvador could also experience heavy rain and possible flooding, the hurricane center said. That raised fears of more landslides and flooding.Eta was the 28th named storm of this year’s hurricane season, tying the 2005 record for named storms. Theta, the 29th, was far out in the eastern Atlantic Ocean, and became a remnant low Sunday.The official end of hurricane season is Nov. 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hurricane-iota-heads-for-already-battered-central-america/story-PJNABqxJYHEidif3oyMtiJ.html
16-11-2020||World||SpaceX launches 4 astronauts to space, kicking off regular crew flights from the US||SpaceX launched four astronauts to the International Space Station on Sunday on the first full-fledged taxi flight for NASA by a private company.The Falcon rocket thundered into the night from Kennedy Space Center with three Americans and one Japanese, the second crew to be launched by SpaceX. The Dragon capsule on top — named Resilience by its crew in light of this year’s many challenges, most notably Covid-19 — was due to reach the space station late Monday and remain there until spring.Also Read: Resilience: Nasa, SpaceX send four astronauts to International Space Station aboard Falcon 9Sidelined by the virus himself, SpaceX founder and chief executive Elon Musk was forced to monitor the action from afar. He tweeted that he “most likely” had a moderate case of Covid-19. NASA policy at Kennedy Space Center requires anyone testing positive for coronavirus to quarantine and remain isolated.Sunday’s launch follows by just a few months SpaceX’s two-pilot test flight. It kicks off what NASA hopes will be a long series of crew rotations between the US and the space station, after years of delay. More people means more science research at the orbiting lab, according to officials.“This is another historic moment,” NASA Administrator Jim Bridenstine said Friday. But he noted: “Make no mistake: Vigilance is always required on every flight.”The flight to the space station — 27 1/2 hours door to door — should be entirely automated, although the crew can take control if needed.With Covid-19 still surging, NASA continued the safety precautions put in place for SpaceX’s crew launch in May. The astronauts went into quarantine with their families in October. All launch personnel wore masks, and the number of guests at Kennedy was limited. Even the two astronauts on the first SpaceX crew flight stayed behind at Johnson Space Center in Houston.Vice President Mike Pence, chairman of the National Space Council, traveled from Washington to watch the launch.Outside the space center gates, officials anticipated hundreds of thousands of spectators to jam nearby beaches and towns.NASA worried a weekend liftoff — coupled with a dramatic nighttime launch — could lead to a superspreader event. They urged the crowds to wear masks and maintain safe distances. Similar pleas for SpaceX’s first crew launch on May 30 went unheeded.The three-men, one-woman crew led by Commander Mike Hopkins, an Air Force colonel, named their capsule Resilience in a nod not only to the pandemic, but also racial injustice and contentious politics. It’s about as diverse as space crews come, including physicist Shannon Walker, Navy Cmdr. Victor Glover, the first Black astronaut on a long-term space station mission, and Japan’s Soichi Noguchi, who became the first person in almost 40 years to launch on three types of spacecraft.They rode out to the launch pad in Teslas — another Musk company — after exchanging high-fives and hand embraces with their children and spouses, who huddled at the open car windows. Musk was replaced by SpaceX President Gwynne Shotwell in bidding the astronauts farewell.Also Read: SpaceX Dragon reaches orbit in milestone NASA commercial flightBesides its sleek design and high-tech features, the Dragon capsule is quite spacious — it can carry up to seven people. Previous space capsules have launched with no more than three. The extra room in the capsule was used for science experiments and supplies.The four astronauts will be joining two Russians and one American who flew to the space station last month from Kazakhstan.The first-stage booster — aiming for an ocean platform several minutes after liftoff — is expected to be recycled by SpaceX for the next crew launch. That’s currently targeted for the end of March, which would set up the newly launched astronauts for a return to Earth in April. SpaceX would launch yet another crew in late summer or early fall.SpaceX and NASA wanted the booster recovered so badly that they delayed the launch attempt by a day, to give the floating platform time to reach its position in the Atlantic over the weekend following rough seas.Boeing, NASA’s other contracted crew transporter, is trailing by a year. A repeat of last December’s software-plagued test flight without a crew is off until sometime early next year, with the first astronaut flight of the Starliner capsule not expected before summer.NASA turned to private companies to haul cargo and crew to the space station, after the shuttle fleet retired in 2011. SpaceX qualified for both. With Kennedy back in astronaut-launching action, NASA can stop buying seats on Russian Soyuz rockets. The last one cost $90 million.The commander of SpaceX’s first crew, Doug Hurley, noted it’s not just about saving money or easing the training burdens for crews.“Bottom line: I think it’s just better for us to be flying from the United States if we can do that,” he told The Associated Press last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/spacex-launches-four-astronauts-to-space-kicking-off-regular-crew-flights-from-the-us/story-laCX0E226D6nztXmgBOguM.html
16-11-2020||World||British PM Boris Johnson self-isolates after Covid-19 contact||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson is self-isolating after coming into contact with someone who tested positive for Covid-19, a fresh setback after infighting among his top advisers plunged Downing Street into chaos last week.Johnson, who was admitted to intensive care in a London hospital earlier this year with the novel coronavirus, is well and does not have any symptoms, a spokesman for the prime minister said on Sunday.Also Read: From Joe Biden to Boris Johnson, world leaders extend Diwali greetings“He will carry on working from Downing Street, including on leading the government’s response to the coronavirus pandemic,” the spokesman said. “The prime minister will follow the rules and is self-isolating.” Johnson met lawmakers in Downing Street on Thursday, including Lee Anderson, a Conservative Party member who subsequently developed Covid-19 symptoms and tested positive.The British leader had been hoping to seize back the initiative after last week’s drama in Downing Street.Johnson’s office said on Friday that Dominic Cummings, the prime minister’s most powerful adviser and a fellow veteran of the Brexit referendum, would stop working for him next month. Weekend newspapers were full of reports of bitter rows between rival factions in Downing Street that painted a picture of a government in chaos.Also Read: Boris Johnson seeks green jobs for UK as unemployment surgesIn an attempt to show he was not letting the upheaval distract him, his office said Johnson would make a string of “critical announcements” over the next two weeks on issues from green policy to a return to regional Covid-19 rules from Dec. 2.Johnson has come under pressure from within his party not to extend the economically damaging, four-week coronavirus lockdown that he ordered for England this month.Downing Street said the prime minister would remain firm in the finale of talks with the European Union over a post-Brexit trade deal and reiterated that he was ready to end Britain’s transition period on Dec. 31 without a trade deal if necessary.Johnson will agree a one-year public spending plan with his finance minister, Rishi Sunak - to be announced on Nov. 25 - and he will publish this week a plan setting out steps for a “green industrial revolution” to boost green jobs as Britain aims for net zero carbon emissions by 2050, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/british-pm-boris-johnson-self-isolates-after-covid-19-contact/story-BQuhFbmOO8oMq2CL4OI97L.html
16-11-2020||World||SpaceX Dragon reaches orbit in milestone NASA commercial flight||Four astronauts reached orbit on a SpaceX rocket after lifting off at 7:27 p.m. from Florida, in the company’s first regular NASA mission to the International Space Station.The Sunday launch appeared to go as planned as the Falcon 9 rocket lifted off from NASA’s Kennedy Space Center. The rocket’s first stage successfully landed on a drone ship about nine minutes after lift off. The Dragon will ferry the astronauts to the space station on SpaceX’s first operational trip following a test flight with a two-person crew that returned from the orbiting lab three months ago. The latest launch, known as the Crew-1 mission, comes 18 years after Elon Musk founded Space Exploration Technologies Corp. with the ultimate goal of populating other planets.The Crew-1 mission marks a crucial milestone in the development of a space industry in which private-sector companies provide business and tourism services in low-earth orbit. Following the retirement of the Space Shuttle in 2011, NASA awarded SpaceX and Boeing Co. nearly $7 billion in contracts to build new transport systems to the space station as part of the agency’s Commercial Crew program.The launch was originally slated for Saturday, but was scrubbed due to bad weather.In the Crew-1 mission, Commander Michael Hopkins, 51, an Air Force colonel and test pilot, will make his second trip to the space station, seven years after his first. He’ll be joined by three others on the mission:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/spacex-dragon-reaches-orbit-in-milestone-nasa-commercial-flight/story-P76GVRneZCs2ZM4I4qbP8M.html
16-11-2020||World||Normal life will only be back ‘next winter’: BioNTech CEO Ugur Sahin||While coronavirus cases continue to rise at an alarming rate in North America and Europe, one of the creators of the Covid-19 vaccine developed by Pfizer and Germany’s BioNTech says normal life will return by next winter. BioNTech CEO Ugur Sahin said he was “very confident that transmission between people will be reduced by such a highly effective vaccine, maybe not 90%, but maybe 50%”. It’s essential that all immunisation programmes are finished before the autumn, he said on Sunday on the BBC’s Andrew Marr Show.North Dakota earlier became the 35th US state to require face coverings be worn in public, as governors across the country are grappling with a surge in coronavirus infections. North Dakota joined 38 other states this month in reporting record daily jumps in new cases.New cases nationwide rose on Friday to a daily record of over 177,000, the fourth straight day an all-time high was set, according to a Reuters tally of figures from US public health agencies.The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has recommended mask wearing, and a widely cited model estimated that a nationwide mandate could save 68,000 lives by next spring. In France, the number of confirmed new cases and deaths rose sharply in the last 24 hours. France registered 32,095 new cases and deaths in hospitals from Covid-19 rose by 359.Ten people died on Saturday in a fire at a Romanian hospital treating coronavirus patients, the country’s agency for emergency situations said. The blaze broke out in the ICU of the Piatra Neamt county hospital and spread to an adjoining room.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/normal-life-will-only-be-back-next-winter-biontech-ceo-ugur-sahin/story-QbJmFPMxJOeUZmMTjz538J.html
16-11-2020||World||70 Taliban commanders killed in Helmand and Kandahar by Afghan forces||At least 70 Taliban commanders were killed in Helmand and Kandahar by Afghan forces in operations carried out in retaliation to the attacks started by the group more than a month ago. According to Kabul’s ministry of interior affairs, 152 pakistani fighters were also killed in the operations in the Helmand region.The ministry released the list of commanders killed in the operations on Sunday, according to which 20 of them belonged to different parts of Helmand and were heading groups of 45 to 100 associates. It said 10 of the commanders killed belonged to Uruzgan, Kandahar and Ghazni and had come to aid the fight in Helmand. Forty of the commanders were killed in the Kandahar region, as per the data of the ministry.Interior ministry spokesperson Tariq Arian said 54 bodies of fighters were transported to Helmand, 65 across Durand Line, 35 to Farah province, 13 were taken to Zabul as well as 13 to Uruzgan province. The Afghan forces also warded off Taliban attacks in Helmand, Kandahar and other provinces in the south through their active defense mechanism, the spokesperson said.Though the strikes in parts of Kandahar, Helmand and south were ongoing, Arian said that the Taliban forces in the southern provinces have been defeated.Chief of Army Staff Gen. Mohammad Yasin Zia led the southern war. The spokesperson added that the clashes that have been going on over a month have claimed the lives of 134 civilians and wounded 289 others in the last 25 days. The Taliban has rubbished the government’s claims of casualties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/70-taliban-commanders-killed-in-helmand-and-kandahar-by-afghan-forces/story-mUYihXOLHzh3g2c8sU3kyL.html
16-11-2020||India||Branded Indian spy, Kanpur man returns home after 28 years in Pakistan||Seventy-year-old Shamsuddin finally made it back to Kanpur and his family on Monday after 28 years in Pakistan. He spent eight of these years in a Pakistani prison after being branded an Indian spy but was later acquitted of the charge. His return set off Diwali-like celebrations in Kanpur’s congested Kanghi Mohal locality.Shamsuddin was quarantined in Amritsar after he was released from a Pakistan jail on October 26. An Uttar Pradesh police team brought him to Kanpur on Monday afternoon and he was handed over to his family after brief questioning, circle officer (Sisamau) Tripurari Pandey said.As he stepped into the narrow lane, his sister Shabeena fainted. His daughters Azra and Uzma cried on seeing him after a long time. There were hundreds to welcome Shamsuddin, who was choked with emotion. “I suffered a lot in that prison. My freedom is the best Diwali gift I could ask for,” he said. A shoemaker by profession, Shamsuddin had left India in 1992 after a tiff with some relatives and went to Pakistan on a 90-day visa.After sometime, he sent his family back to Kanpur and stayed on in Pakistan. In 2012, he was arrested on charges of spying and then spent eight years in a Pakistan prison. He was exonerated of the charge and released from Ladi jail in Karachi on October 26.He entered India via the Attari border, but since the rules required him to complete a 14-day quarantine, he was kept in Amritsar.After completing all the formalities, a UP police team reached Amritsar on November 14 and brought him back on Monday morning.“My country is the best; the Muhajirs (Indian immigrants) are not treated well (in Pakistan). I made a huge mistake by going there. The Indians are like enemies to them,” he said.On his return, the policemen gave him sweets and garlanded him. He started sobbing and said this was the most memorable Diwali for him. His sister Shabeena said the prayers of the family were finally answered and everyone was elated to have him back.His brother Fahim thanked the central government for help. The family, he said, had lost all hope of seeing him ever again at one stage. His two daughters, who were three and four years old when they last saw him, did not leave their father’s side after his return. His wife, Azra, who has not been keeping well, could not stop crying.“I cannot explain what I am feeling on seeing him alive. I am going to take such care of him that he forgets all the suffering he underwent,” said Azra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/branded-indian-spy-kanpur-man-returns-home-after-28-years-in-pakistan/story-9i0Aap47OXEvpDrWnnXSFL.html
16-11-2020||India||Snowfall strands Adityanath, Trivendra Singh Rawat in Kedarnath for hours||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Adityanath and his Uttarakhand counterpart Trivendra Singh Rawat were stuck for several hours in Kedarnath on Monday because of foul weather following snowfall.They managed to reach Gauchar, in Chamoli district of Uttarakhand, in the evening. “Uttarakhand CM Rawat and UP CM Adityanath were stuck in Kedarnath due to bad weather following snowfall,” Ashok Kumar, director general (law and order), Uttarakhand, said.Both the chief ministers arrived at the Kedarnath temple on Monday morning to offer prayers at the closing ceremony of the shrine for the winter. The portals of Gangotri temple in Uttarkashi were closed for winter on Sunday and that of Kedarnath, and Yamunotri were closed on Monday. The last of the Char Dham (four Himalayan pilgrimage sites), Badrinath, will follow the ritual on November 19. Adityanath and Rawat witnessed the closure of Kedarnath shrine’s portals amid all rituals and special prayers as snowfall continued. The portals for Kedarnath closed at 8:30 am and, thereafter, the two CMs got stuck there following heavy snowfall. Both were scheduled to leave for Badrinath at 8.40 am by a helicopter. But due to the snowfall, the chopper could not take off.The two chief ministers then waited in the government guest house near Kedarnath from where they could finally fly at around 4.45 pm for Gauchar town in Chamoli district, 130 km away from Badrinath. They will spend the night at Gauchar and visit Badrinath on Tuesday. “I was supposed to inaugurate a tourist guest house of the UP government near Badrinath shrine. We were stuck due to snowfall,” Adityanath said. On the sidelines of the event, Adityanath told reporters that all problems related to distribution of assets between UP and Uttarakhand have been sorted out and a few that may be remaining will also be resolved amicably soon. Citing an example, he said the two state governments had long been fighting a legal battle in the Supreme Court over the ownership of Alaknanda guest house in Haridwar but now UP has agreed to give its ownership to Uttarakhand.“All issues between UP and Uttarakhand have been resolved and in future also we will continue to work together. There was a case regarding the Alaknanda guest house. That has also been resolved and it was decided that the guest house will be given to Uttarakhand government,” Adityanath said.Later in the day, his office, in a statement, said that he along with Rawat he inspected the renovation/development works being carried out in Kedarnath Dham by the Uttarakhand government.According to a UP government statement, Adityanath said the state government is making another guest house near Haridwar, which will help pilgrims. The guest house will be ready before next year’s Kumbh.“The UP government is making a tourist lodging place and I have already spoken to the Uttarakhand government about it. Soon, the foundation will be laid for it,” Adityanath said.(With input from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/snowfall-strands-adityanath-trivendra-singh-rawat-in-kedarnath-for-hours/story-bRUCJagtR8AmQT8lMxu1yJ.html
16-11-2020||India||Delhi records 3,797 new Covid-19 cases, peak of third wave nearing end, says minister||Delhi recorded 3,797 new infections on Monday after 29,821 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, taking the positivity rate to 12.73 per cent. The Capital, which has been reeling under the third wave of Covid-19 since October last week, recorded 99 deaths in the last 24 hours. In the third phase, the daily cases breached the 8,000 mark and daily death toll crossed 100.However, health minister Satyendar Jain on Monday said the peak of the third wave has already been reached. Instead of further increase, the cases will now come down, the health minister said dismissing rumours of lockdown in the Capital — in view of the sudden increase in the number of case.Also Read: Covid-19: Over 1K new containment zones created in Delhi in last 15 days as cases rise Delhi has witnessed a spurt in coronavirus cases since October 28 when the daily rise breached the 5,000-mark for the first time and it crossed the 8,000-mark on November 11.On November 12, 104 deaths, the highest in over five months, were recorded in the city.Union minister Amit Shah has intervened and has announced a number of steps to tackle the Covid-19 situation, including making available 300 additional ICU beds, doubling the number of daily RTPCR tests and a house-to-house survey in the national capital to check the spiralling numbers of cases in Delhi.Amid the increase of the cases, Delhi markets witnessed huge footfall during the festive season. In the last 15 days, over 1,000 areas have been identified as containment zones. There were 3,359 Covid-19 containment zones in the city on November 1, but the number rose to 4,430 on November 15, with the maximum 740 in southwest Delhi and the lowest 142 in northeast Delhi.According to data, there were 4,016 containment zones in the national capital on November 11, followed by 4,141 (November 12), 4,184 (November 13) and 4,288 (November 14). In a containment zone summary as on November 15, the revenue department said that Delhi’s three districts have more than 500 containment zones - southwest (740), south (700), west (568) and southeast (505).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-records-3-797-new-covid-19-cases-peak-of-third-wave-nearing-end-says-minister/story-zNAHI3t0lzdCG7HbCyUlUN.html
16-11-2020||India||Nagaland seals civil secretariat after surge in Covid-19 cases in state||The Nagaland State Civil Secretariat has been sealed for 48 hours for preventive measures to contain the spread of Covid-19 in workplace settings amid fresh spike in the daily coronavirus cases, according to a government notification on Monday.With the state’s Covid -19 tally crossing 10,000 mark on Monday, the government ordered aggressive contact tracing. The daily case tally, which was at a double figure consistently in the past two weeks, shot to 135 on Sunday and 140 on Monday with maximum cases reported from the state capital Kohima.Along with the Civil Secretariat complex, the establishment of the Chief Electoral Officer and the Directorate of Information and Public Relations have also been sealed till November 18.“Fumigation of the premises is to be done and aggressive contact tracing is to be initiated following all health and safety measures and SoPs of the government,” said the notification issued by the Deputy Commissioner of Kohima.“The sealed area is mapped and cordoned off and the public and all concerned are advised to follow all safety precautions,” the notification added.The Nagaland health department has reported that out of 10,025 total Covid positive cases in the state, there are currently 1,009 active cases while 8,860 have recovered so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-seals-civil-secretariat-after-surge-in-covid-19-cases-in-state/story-B6lbO9316LihPAEUZoCnAI.html
16-11-2020||India||AIADMK, BJP spar over Vetrivel Yatra days before Amit Shah’s Chennai visit||The alliance between the ruling AIADMK and the BJP in Tamil Nadu has run into friction over the saffron party’s Vetrivel Yatra with the former insisting that it will not allow any procession that aims to disrupt the peace and the harmony in the state.“Tamil Nadu will not allow any procession or yatra that seeks to divide people in the name of caste or religion,” stated a column published Monday in the AIADMK’s mouthpiece, Namadhu Amma. The standoff between the allies comes ahead of the visit of Union home minister Amit Shah to Chennai on November 21 to strategize with BJP’s state unit for the 2021 assembly elections. On Sunday, BJP’s state president L Murugan, announced that Shah will attend government programmes and his maiden visit since taking over as Union minister was expected to boost the morale of the cadre. The BJP has recently appointed its national general secretary CT Ravi as in-charge of the state. The party has been attempting to make inroads into Tamil Nadu where it is battling a perception of being an outsider. The party which swept the 2014 and 2019 general elections hasn’t been able to recreate its electoral dominance in Tamil Nadu. The DMK won 37 of 38 Lok Sabha seats in 2019 drubbing the AIADMK-BJP combine. But in the assembly bypolls conducted simultaneously, AIADMK won 9 of the 22 seats to retain power. The DMK won 13.While the AIADMK has been a loyal partner by supporting BJP’s stance at the Centre on issues such as the CAA, triple talaq and the farm bills, it has asserted itself recently in the state’s interests on issues of NEET and NEP. An AIADMK leader who did not wish to be named said that any truck with the BJP will affect their performance. Political observers also say that the BJP wants to be seen as a contender against the DMK.The month-long Vetrivel yatra was designed to consolidate the Hindu vote bank by invoking Lord Muruga, a popular deity amongst the Tamils. The BJP wants to expose what it views as “anti-Hindu and anti-Tamil propaganda”. The yatra stemmed from a controversy when BJP went up against a Youtube channel Karuppar Kootam which ridiculed Kandha Sashti Kavasam, a devotional hymn dedicated to Lord Muruga. “It seems like Lord Muruga is being hijacked by the Aryan discourse,” said Ramu Manivannan, head, politics and public administration department, University of Madras. “BJP is bringing in a Hindu narrative which may create some dent but that number will be insignificant. Radicalisation of the Hindus in the north is different. While the Ram mandir issue is a captivating situation in the north, people in Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh have been marching for Lord Muruga for a long time, so they don’t need BJP to campaign for them now.” Though BJP leaders say they are hurt with the opinion piece in the AIADMK mouthpiece and feel it was unnecessary, both parties maintain that there is no strain in their ties even while their representatives wrangle over the matter at the Madras high court.“Both Karuppar Kootam and those holding saffron flags should understand that unity and harmony prevails in Tamil Nadu,” said the AIADMK opinion piece. This was in response to BJP’s newly appointed Mahila Morcha national president, Vanathi Srinivasan’s comments on the yatra. Srinivasan clarmed that the AIADMK misunderstood her comments. “We are alliance partners but that doesn’t mean we will not raise people’s issues,” Srinivasan said. “We want to expose the hypocrisy of political parties in the state who don’t object to those ridiculing Hindu dharma.” The BJP has accused opposition DMK leader M K Stalin of backing the arrested members of the Youtube group. DMK denied any role in it but has steered clear of commenting on the yatra. “The BJP is thinking that they will pit the Tamil parties as being against religion. But opposition parties will pitch it as a Dravidian versus Aryan discourse,” said Manivannan. “Tamil Nadu views them as communalising the social environment. They are unlikely to eat into DMK’s Hindu votes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiadmk-bjp-spar-over-vetrivel-yatra-days-before-amit-shah-s-chennai-visit/story-z7Dokgdr2XpuCxIhizqesN.html
16-11-2020||India||Sonu Sood is now Punjab icon, announces Election Commission||Actor Sonu Sood has been appointed as the Punjab state icon by the Election Commission of India, an official statement said here on Monday. The statement quoting Punjab Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) S Karuna Raju said his office had sent a proposal to the ECI in this regard and they approved the same. Belonging to Moga district of Punjab, Sood catapulted to the national spotlight for his work in helping migrants reach their homes during the coronavirus-triggered lockdown. Sood arranged transport facilities for migrant labourers stuck in various places to their homes and his humanitarian work was highly appreciated by all sections of society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonu-sood-is-now-punjab-icon-announces-election-commission/story-tuMgcwzgVzBhTv9TNXwfPN.html
16-11-2020||India||Mehbooba Mufti alleges Centre driving out Gujjar-Bakerwals from J&K||Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti on Monday accused central government of driving out Muslim nomads - Gujjars and Bakerwals- from their homes with an intention to elicit an extreme reaction from this community and to settle outsiders here.Mufti made the comments after visiting Anantnag in south Kashmir where the administration has been issuing eviction notices for the past few weeks and demolished dozens of structures. She met the families of those whose houses were demolished.The administration says that it was an anti-encroachment drive meant to retrieve forest and state land.Mufti said that Gujjars and Bakerwals are the protectors of the forests and their ancestors have lived here for hundreds of years.“The central government has started an illegal process by which our people living here–-nomads, Gujjars and Bakerwals-- whose ancestors have lived here are being pushed out. They finished our domicile law and want to bring people here from across the country but they want to chase away the locals from here,” Mufti said.Tribal activists say that some of the structures which the administration was demolishing are temporary (Kothas) which the nomads use during their annual migration in summers and winters along with their livestock. For half of the year, these structures, made of mud and wood and partially underground, remain empty till the nomads return. Deputy Commissioner, Anantnag, Kuldeep Krishan Sidha said that they have launched the drive to remove illegal encroachers and the drive is being monitored by the high court.“Whatever illegal encroachment we saw on paper we have removed that. No nomad was affected. We did not bring down any Kotha. This action has affected those who have constructed concrete structures in forest areas,” he said.Also Read: Gupkar alliance wants to continue with corruption in J&K, says RS Prasad, seeks explanation from CongressMufti said that this was not only happening in Kashmir but even in Jammu’s Bathindi, Sujwa and Chatta areas.“Wherever, there is a Muslim population or Gujjars and Bakerwals, who are the actual protectors of these forests, they are being evicted. Where will they and their children go in these winters?,” she said.Mufti questioned whether the central government’s intention was to hand over the land to their capitalist friends. “You have already given 24,000 kanal land to industries, that land is forest land which is our resource and now you are evicting them (nomads),” she said.Also Read: Gupkar alliance an exploitative outfit formed to grab power: BJP“To whom do you want to hand over our land, air, water and beautiful forests? They want to give everything to their big capitalist friends who give them funds; Railways, Air-India, now, do you want to put J&K’s land also on sale,” she said. She said that Gujjars and Bakerwals are very loyal and peace loving people. “I think the central government is deliberately pushing them out. They have never participated or opted for violence. They have always opted for peace but I think they are being forcefully evicted to force them for extreme reaction,” she alleged.She cautioned the government of consequences if it did not stop. “I want to tell the central government, which is controlling the administration here that these nomads should not be disturbed, else you will have to face its dangerous consequences,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mehbooba-mufti-alleges-centre-driving-out-gujjar-bakerwals-from-j-k/story-NKQLgJ9FZYBc8jEUR0UJUN.html
16-11-2020||India||Centre forms teams to check treatment, testing of Covid-19 patients in Delhi private hospitals||The ministry of home affairs on Monday constituted 10 multi-disciplinary teams to visit all private hospitals in Delhi to check status of compliance of various directions issued by the Union health ministry for testing and treating Covid-19 patients and of government of Delhi to contain the spread of Covid-19.In an order issued on Monday evening, MHA has directed the 10 teams to start their visit immediately. The teams have been further directed to submit their reports, along with specific details to the health ministry and MHA within two days of issuance of the order. The multi-disciplinary teams, in a designated list of tasks, will have to report to MHA if the private hospitals have wards and ICU beds in accordance with orders issued by the Delhi government, and whether the same is displayed on Corona dashboard of Delhi government on a real-time basis. Violations by these selected Delhi private hospitals will also be checked and reported by the newly formed teams to the MHA. The teams will also scrutinize whether these private hospitals are following the Covid-19 discharge policy as directed by the Centre. In the drill, the teams will also spotlight the RT-PCR testing mechanism to check the testing capacity available, along with the turnaround time of the test report. In terms of patient care, the teams will also check if the critical patients are being referred to other government or private hospitals without ascertaining the availability in those hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-forms-teams-to-check-treatments-testing-of-covid-19-patients-in-delhi-private-hospitals/story-zDtUUWU5lZcsjnNHRfyZMP.html
16-11-2020||India||Central agencies sabotaging Kerala’s pet projects, says CM Pinarayi Vijayan||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday said the central investigating agencies were exceeding their jurisdiction to malign the state government and sabotage its pet developmental projects. Addressing a news conference in the state capital he came down heavily on central agencies saying they were “acting in a prejudiced manner to portray the state government in bad light”. “I think except one all agencies are hovering over the skies of the state. They can’t interfere with decisions taken by the executive. They are summoning officials at will and demoralising them. We will not allow this,” he said. His statement came in the wake of the ruling Left Democratic Front’s state-wide protest against the Union government and its agencies. The Kerala government had initially welcomed the probe by the NIA into the gold smuggling case after the seizure of 30 kg gold that came to the United Arab Emirates consulate in the state capital in July camouflaged as diplomatic baggage.But it has taken offence after the Enforcement Directorate (ED) that is also involved in the probe, sent a communiqué to the chief secretary last month seeking details of four projects of the government - K Phone, e Mobility Hub, Smarty City and Down Town. The ED claims it came across alleged irregularities in some of these projects when it was probing money-laundering linked to the gold smuggling case. The ED suspects that kickbacks and commissions were paid in some of these projects but the state government feels that the agency’s conduct is aimed at sabotaging these projects. The ED’s suspicion about kickbacks was fuelled after it found Rs one crore in cash and two kg gold in the locker of Swapna Suresh, one of the main accused in the gold smuggling case.She reportedly told investigators that the money was the commission she received for clinching a deal with an international aid agency ‘Red Crescent’ which funded the Life Mission project in Vadakkencherry in Thrissur district. The government is also angry at central agencies after Vijayan’s former secretary M Sivasankar gave a statement that he was forced to take the name of senior political leaders and others and he was victimised by central agencies for not toeing their line in the gold smuggling case. In a statement in the High Court, Sivasankar also said he had become a pawn in the state-Centre cold war and central agencies were leaking concocted stories to discredit the state. The senior IAS officer who was suspended after his alleged liaison with Swapna Suresh came to light said the ongoing investigation was politically motivated. He said he was arraigned as an accused based on some WhatsApp chats and he claimed he was not aware of smuggling activities of Suresh. His bail plea is coming up before a special court in Kochi on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-agencies-sabotaging-kerala-s-pet-projects-says-cm-pinarayi-vijayan/story-bHlJ7IELuXO1LdR4Mvwy3O.html
16-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: DRDO hospital in Delhi to get 250 more ICU beds by weekend and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.DRDO hospital in Delhi to get 250 more ICU beds by weekendThe Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has begun work on expanding the capacity of its Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Covid Hospital in Delhi Cantonment to deal with an unprecedented surge in coronavirus infections in the capital, DRDO officials said on Monday.Read more. ‘BJP-nominated CM’: Prashant Kishor’s acerbic message to Nitish KumarPrashant Kishor, the political strategist who had worked closely with Nitish Kumar during the 2015 assembly elections before they fell out earlier this year, tweeted his congratulatory message to the Bihar chief minister as soon as he started his fourth straight term.Read more. Quad navies ready for high intensity Malabar phase 2, China watchesThe navies of India, United States, Japan and Australia will kick off the second phase of the Malabar exercise in the northern Arabian Sea on Tuesday at a time when China is closely tracking the activities of the Quad countries and seeking to increase its footprint in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR), officials said on Monday.Read more. Govt considering common code of conduct for TV news channels, backs self-regulationThe government is thinking of developing a common code of conduct for TV channels while also considering enhanced powers for the Press Council of India (PCI), Information and Broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar said on Monday.Read more. Apple Watch Series 6 review: How do you make something good, better?The Apple Watch Series 6 is a great device, I cannot say that enough, but it isn’t a huge upgrade over the Apple Watch Series 5 except for the Blood O2 reader.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-drdo-hospital-in-delhi-to-get-250-more-icu-beds-by-weekend-and-all-the-latest-news/story-ROZtNw9vtpx92mPxsJzauO.html
16-11-2020||India||Quad navies ready for high intensity Malabar phase 2, China watches||The navies of India, United States, Japan and Australia will kick off the second phase of the Malabar exercise in the northern Arabian Sea on Tuesday at a time when China is closely tracking the activities of the Quad countries and seeking to increase its footprint in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR), officials said on Monday. The second phase of Malabar naval drills --- to be conducted from November 17-20 --- will be more elaborate and complex than the first one as it will involve the participation of Indian and American aircraft carriers. “Phase 2 of Exercise Malabar 2020 will witness joint operations centered around the Vikramaditya Carrier Battle Group of the Indian Navy and Nimitz Carrier Strike Group of the US Navy. The two carriers, along with other ships, submarines and aircraft of the participating navies, would be engaged in high intensity naval operations over four days,” an Indian Navy spokesperson said on Monday. The exercise is being conducted at a time when India and China are locked in a border row in the Ladakh sector and talks to reduce military tensions remain deadlocked. The first phase of the exercise was held in Bay of Bengal from November 3-6. The exercise is being conducted in a ‘non-contact, at sea only’ format in view of Covid-19 pandemic. The second phase of the drills will include cross-deck flying operations and advanced air defence exercises by INS Vikramaditya’s MiG-29K fighters and USS Nimitz’s F-18 fighters and E2C Hawkeye aircraft, the officials said.The drill will cover advanced surface and anti-submarine warfare exercises, and weapon firings to “further enhance inter-operability and synergy between the four friendly navies,” the spokesperson said.The Indian warships taking part in the exercise include indigenous destroyers INS Kolkata and INS Chennai, stealth frigate INS Talwar, fleet support ship INS Deepak and integral helicopters. Rear Admiral Krishna Swaminathan, Flag Officer Commanding, Western Fleet, will be leading the Indian Navy during the exercise, which will also feature the indigenously-built submarine INS Khanderi and P-8I maritime reconnaissance aircraft. The USS Nimitz will be accompanied by cruiser USS Princeton and destroyer USS Sterett, with the US Navy’s P-8A maritime reconnaissance aircraft also taking part in the drills. Her Majesty’s Australian Ship (HMAS) Ballarat (long-range frigate) with its integral MH-60 helicopter will also take part in the exercise. The last time Australia was invited as a non-permanent partner by India for Malabar was in 2007, a move that drew sharp reactions from China. Also Read: Malabar exercise that upsets China is a tectonic shift in power balance | AnalysisThe Indian Navy statement said the Japanese navy would be taking part in the drills, without giving out the details of its participation. Japanese destroyer Onami with its integral SH-60 helicopter had taken part in the first phase of the drills. “The 24th edition of Malabar highlights enhanced convergence of views amongst the four vibrant democracies on maritime issues, and showcases their commitment to an open, inclusive Indo-Pacific and a rules-based international order,” the spokesperson said. China has been wary of the Quadrilateral security dialogue or Quad that was revived in late 2017 by India, the US, Australia and Japan, and these suspicions have increased since the four countries upgraded the forum to the ministerial level last year. Also Read: Under Biden, the future of US-India tiesSpeaking at an event on November 6, navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh said a “great power competition” was playing out “fairly vigorously” in IOR. The navy has stepped up surveillance and activities in the IOR to check China’s ambitions. “IOR is one of the most militarised regions… Also, there are differing interpretations of international laws and there is this fear that ‘Global Commons’ can change to ‘Contested Seas’, threatening free flow of commerce and trade,” the navy chief said.The exercise comes after the Quad foreign ministers meeting in Tokyo on October 6 and follows the India-US two plus two dialogue on October 26-27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/quad-navies-ready-for-high-intensity-malabar-phase-2-china-watches/story-1qGNjygMTtQqMqlKTof3eP.html
16-11-2020||India||DRDO hospital in Delhi to get 250 more ICU beds by weekend||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has begun work on expanding the capacity of its Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Covid Hospital in Delhi Cantonment to deal with an unprecedented surge in coronavirus infections in the capital, DRDO officials said on Monday. This comes a day after the government announced that the Capital will get hundreds of more intensive care unit (ICU) beds for Covid-19 patients, testing for the coronavirus will be doubled, and doctors from central paramilitary forces will be flown in. The 1,000-bed DRDO medical facility will get 250 additional ICU beds by Friday to provide treatment to patients who are seriously ill, said one of the officials cited above asking not to be named. This will take the total number of ICU beds at the hospital to 500 though the total capacity of the centre, spread over 25,000 square metres will stay the same. The hospital --- built by DRDO in record time of 12 days with assistance from the armed forces, ministry of home affairs, ministry of health and family welfare and Tata Trust --- became operational in July and has so far treated and discharged 2,500 people. More than 400 patients are currently being treated at the hospital whose ICU centre is almost full, said a second official. The doubling of the ICU beds will increase the requirement of doctors and paramedics at the hospital. “The medical centre currently has around 150 doctors and paramedic. We will need an additional medical staff of around 100 people. This will be provided by the Armed Forces Medical Services and the Central Reserve Police Force,” said a third official, adding that the hospital also plans to get dialysis machines. The ICU ward in the hospital has been named after Col B Santosh Babu and two other medical wards have been named after Naib Subedar Mandeep Singh and Naib Subedar Satnam Singh to honour the memory of brave hearts killed in action in the June 15 Galwan Valley clash with the People’s Liberation Army in eastern Ladakh. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal described the lack of ICU beds as the “biggest challenge” in the fight against Covid-19 at a high-level meeting on Sunday. The meeting was chaired by Union home minister Amit Shah and attendees included Kejriwal, the health ministers of the Centre as well as the state, Delhi’s lieutenant governor and top officials from Niti Aayog, Indian Council of Medical Research and All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). In a presentation, Niti Aayog’s VK Paul described Delhi’s situation as “unprecedented” and “likely to become worse.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drdo-hospital-in-delhi-to-get-250-more-icu-beds-by-weekend/story-1eIAzwkr8VpOHSk0Izs4qN.html
16-11-2020||India||‘Only Congress can keep nation united’: Gehlot attacks Sibal, takes Congress versus Congress a notch higher||Veteran Congress leader Kapil Sibal, in an interview, has emphasised on the need of introspection in the party. The party is on decline, the former Union minister said in the aftermath of the Congress’s massive drubbing in the recently held Bihar assembly election.Congress leaders are divided over Sibal’s comment which took Congress versus Congress a notch higher with senior leader contributing to the discourse. Karti Chidambaram has supported Sibal’s introspection call. Earlier, when Congress leaders alleged EVM fraud during the counting of the votes, Karti disagreed.Rajasthan Chief Minister and Congress’s tall leader Ashok Gehlot blamed Sibal for mentioning the party’s internal issue in media. “This has hurt the party workers across the country,” Gehlot said.“Congress has seen various crises including 1969, 1977, 1989 and later in the 1996 - but every time we came out stronger due to our ideology, programs, policies and firm belief in party leadership,” Gehlot tweeted. Congress leader Sanjay Nirupam demanded that party leaders who were responsible for taking decisions in Bihar polls should be held accountable for the dismal show, but defended Rahul Gandhi.Gehlot lauded Sonia Gandhi’s leadership but did not brush aside the issue of Congress’s electoral loss. “There are various reasons for Electoral loses. But each time rank and file of the Congress Party has shown undivided and firm belief in the party leadership and that is why we came out of it stronger and united after every crises. We have improved with each and every crisis and also formed UPA government in 2004 under the able leadership of Soniaji, we shall overcome this time too,” he said. “Even today, Congress is the only party which can keep this Nation united and take it forward on the path of comprehensive development,” he added.“We are yet to hear on recent polls... Maybe Congress leadership thinks it should be business as usual, Sibal tweeted on Monday. Sibal was part of a group of 23 senior Congress leaders who had in August written to party chief Sonia Gandhi making suggestions on ways revive the organisation.In 2018, the Congress wrested Rajasthan from the BJP, winning 100 seats (Rasjtriya Lok Dal won 1 seat. With deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot crossing swords with Gehlot, the Congress leadership in the state was questioned. But finally, Gehlot government win floor test and Pilot too yielded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-congress-can-keep-nation-united-gehlot-attacks-sibal-takes-congress-versus-congress-a-notch-higher/story-T7V0D47GZs4c4pWRfLTRRM.html
16-11-2020||India||‘He was passionate about Rajasthan’, PM Modi expresses grief over passing away of Bhanwarlal Meghwal||Rajasthan minister of social justice and empowerment Bhanwarlal Meghwal passed away on Monday after prolonged illness. The 71-year-old Congress leader suffered brain haemorrhage in May following which the right side of his body had paralysed. Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed sadness over the demise of the veteran leader.“Saddened by the demise of Rajasthan Cabinet Minister, Master Bhanwarlal Meghwal Ji. He was a veteran leader who was passionate about serving Rajasthan. In this hour of sadness, my condolences to his family and supporters,” PM Modi tweeted. Saddened by the demise of Rajasthan Cabinet Minister, Master Bhanwarlal Meghwal Ji. He was a veteran leader who was passionate about serving Rajasthan. In this hour of sadness, my condolences to his family and supporters: PM @narendramodi“Deeply saddened at the passing away of my ministerial colleague Master Bhanwar Lal Meghwal ji after a prolonged illness. We have been together since 1980. My heartfelt condolences to his family members in this most difficult time, may God give them strength. May his soul RIP,” chief minister Ashok Gehlot tweeted. Saddened by the demise of Rajasthan Cabinet Minister, Master Bhanwarlal Meghwal Ji. He was a veteran leader who was passionate about serving Rajasthan. In this hour of sadness, my condolences to his family and supporters: PM @narendramodiRecently, his daughter Banarasi Devi had passed away due to cardiac arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-minister-bhanwarlal-meghwal-passes-away/story-7bhpciCGptmBVvNlVBS8kK.html
16-11-2020||India||Daughter of BSF soldier vows to join army as ‘tribute’ to father killed in Pak firing||Thirty-nine year old Border Security Force (BSF) sub-inspector Rakesh Dobhal who died on Friday in cross border shelling by Pakistan in Jammu & Kashmir’s Baramulla was cremated in his hometown in Rishikesh on Monday. Dobhal’s mortal remains reached his home in Rishikesh at 7am and he was cremated in the afternoon in the presence of a large number of people who had gathered to pay their tributes to him. He is survived by his wife and a 10-year-old daughter named Dwitya who showed exemplary courage while paying last tributes to her father.Raising slogans of Bharat Mata ki Jai and Jai Hind, she hardly shed any tears and declared her intent to join the Indian Army to serve the nation, which she said would be the “ultimate tribute” to her father. “When I grow up, I will join the army and serve the nation. My father sacrificed his life for the country; I too, would follow in his footsteps and serve the nation with whatever I could. That would be my biggest tribute to him,” she said during the last rites. While Dobhal’s mother and wife were seen crying, Dwitya was trying to console them, saying, “Why are you crying? Feel proud for the sacrifice made by father,” bringing tears in the eyes of people gathered there. Also Read: Our immediate neighbourhood, a particularly egregious example of state-sponsored cross border terrorism’: S JaishankarDobhal had joined BSF in 2004 and was posted in Jammu & Kashmir since last one year. Earlier Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat paid his tributes to him saying, “People of Uttarakhand are proud of Dobhal who made the supreme sacrifice for the motherland. Our prayers are with his family members in this difficult moment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/daughter-of-bsf-soldier-vows-to-join-army-as-tribute-to-father-killed-in-pak-firing/story-ZWVSxQrkAf2yiVkA29BHRI.html
16-11-2020||India||CBI books 16 people for targeting SC, Andhra HC judges on social media||The Central Bureau of Investigation has initiated a probe against some YSR Congress party supporters who allegedly posted abusive comments and derogatory statements on the social media against the Andhra Pradesh High Court and Supreme Court judges earlier this year, people familiar with the development said. The agency took over 12 First Information Reports (FIRs), registered by the Andhra Pradesh Crime Investigation Division (CID) from April to July this year on the complaint of Registrar General of Andhra Pradesh high court, and clubbed all these into a single case. Sixteen people have been named as accused by the central agency in its FIR registered on November 11 and they have been charged under various sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC) including section 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on ground of religion, race, residence, language etc), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace), 505 (inciting a community), 506 (criminal intimidation) and section 67 of Information Technology Act. According to the CBI FIR, it was alleged in the complaint that key persons who were occupying posts of prominence in Andhra Pradesh, by intentionally targeting the judges, made interviews/posts/speeches attributing motive, caste and corrupt allegations to some of the Supreme Court judges and high court judges in delivering orders/judgements. “These people posted abusive, life threatening and intimidating posts against judges on Facebook, Twitter over recent judgments delivered by judges of Andhra Pradesh HC,” the CBI FIR said.The CBI has stated that it has clubbed 12 CID cases into one “in view of the similarities in the nature of allegations and the modus operandi and for the purpose of uniformity and to look into commonality, if any”. A division bench of Andhra Pradesh high court, comprising Justice Rakesh Kumar and Justice J Uma Devi, had ordered a CBI probe in the matter on October 12 observing that the CID had failed to take appropriate action against those who had made derogatory comments against the judiciary. “The persons occupying high posts are indulging in waging war against the judicial system in the state, oblivious to the fact that even their entity existed since there is a democratic system in our country. In a democratic state, if such a war is initiated against the judicial system by persons holding high positions, certainly it will create unnecessary doubt in the mind of citizens against the judicial system, which may cripple the entire system,” the bench had remarked. Chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy had complained to the Chief Justice of India that the Andhra Pradesh High Court Chief Justice and four other judges were acting against his elected government at the behest of a senior Supreme Court judge. Reddy had claimed that this SC judge was close to his rival, the Telugu Desam Party chief, Chandrababu Naidu.Reacting to the development, senior YSR Congress party legislator and government chief whip G Srikanth Reddy said the comments made by some social media activists allegedly against some judges of Andhra Pradesh high court only reflected the feelings of the common people in the state. “Whenever there is any judgment from the high court against the state government, the Telugu Desam Party leaders are claiming it as their victory. Doesn’t it given an impression among the people that the judiciary in the state is acting in favour of the TDP?” Reddy asked. He said let the CBI inquiry bring out all the facts. “The people will judge who is right and who is wrong,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-books-16-people-for-targeting-sc-andhra-hc-judges-on-social-media/story-lqE389oJ7uI2txH0RMJD0L.html
16-11-2020||India||Bharat Biotech’s Covid-19 vaccine ‘Covaxin’ into phase-3 trials||Covid-19 vaccine - Covaxin - being developed by Bharat Biotech, is now undergoing phase-3 trials, Chairman and Managing Director of the company Krishna Ella said on Monday. Speaking at a virtual programme organised by the Indian School of Business, Ella said the company is also working on another vaccine for Covid-19 which would be in the form of nasal drops and can be ready by next year. “We partnered with ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) for a Covid-19 vaccine as we speak it will be entering the phase-3 trials,” he said. Bharat Biotech is the only vaccine company in the world which has BSL3 production facility (Biosafety-level 3), he said. Last month, the vaccine-maker said it had successfully completed interim analysis of Phase-I and -II trials of the vaccine and is initiating Phase-III trials in 26,000 participants. Covaxin is being developed by BharatBiotech, in collaboration with the ICMR - National Institute of Virology (NIV). The city-based vaccine-maker had, on October 2, sought the Drug Controller General of India’s (DCGI) permission to conduct phase-3 randomised double-blind placebo-controlled multicentre trial of its Covid-19 vaccine, sources said. “We are working on another vaccine through nasal drops.My feeling is by next year it will reach the population,” Ella said. Bharat Biotech in September said it had entered into a licensing agreement with Washington University School of Medicine in St Louis for a novel ‘chimp-adenovirus’ (chimpanzee adenovirus), a single-dose intranasal vaccine for Covid-19. Meanwhile a press release from Bharat Biotech said the Phase-III trials of Covaxin would involve 26,000 volunteers across 25 centres in India and it is being conducted in partnership with ICMR. It is the largest clinical trial conducted for a Covid-19 vaccine in India. This is Indias first phase-3 efficacy study for a Covid-19 vaccine, and the largest phase-III efficacy trial ever conducted in the country. Participating volunteers, who undergo vaccination in the phase-II trials, would be monitored over the next year to detect occurrence of Covid-19. The trial volunteers would receive two intramuscular injections approximately 28 days apart, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-s-covid-19-vaccine-covaxin-into-phase-3-trials/story-Fu40AZW9ESmgXzqRKqQvKM.html
16-11-2020||India||Govt considering common code of conduct for TV news channels, backs self-regulation||The government is thinking of developing a common code of conduct for TV channels while also considering enhanced powers for the Press Council of India (PCI), Information and Broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar said on Monday.The minister also said efforts to provide a regulatory framework for the Over the Top (OTT) platforms, like Netflix and Amazon Prime, were also on as the sector was largely unregulated.Javadekar also asserted that the government felt that it should not step into the regulatory domain and self-regulation by those in the profession was the ideal system.Speaking at an event organized by the PCI on the National Press Day, Javadekar said that while the Press Council was working in the print domain there was no similar system for the electronic media.“There is no system like the Press Council for TV channels so there should be a system of self-regulation. An organization has been formed which is headed by Justice Sikri which even punishes and asks channels to apologise if required. However, many channels are not even members of this system and we can’t leave things like that,” Javadekar said.The I&B minister said that many people were suggesting a common code of conduct for all TV channels. “We have not taken a final decision but are definitely discussing it,” the minister said.Complaints related to content are presently handled by the News Broadcasters Standards Authority which is headed by Justice (retd) A K Sikri.Javadekar said that there was a demand to also increase the powers of the PCI.I was also a member of the Press Council, he said, adding the body had representatives from all stakeholders.“Some people are demanding that there should be more powers for the Press Council. This is being considered,” the minister said.Also Read: ‘NDA family will work together for Bihar’s progress’: PM congratulates NitishSignificantly, the minister’s comments come days after the government brought digital media under the I&B ministry’s purview. There have been demands in the past that the Press Council of India be converted into a Media Council with digital and even electronic platforms under its ambit.Touching another key area, Javadekar said that a self-regulatory mechanism for OTT platforms was also needed.For OTT platforms, there is neither a platform like the PCI nor a self-regulatory mechanism, he said. “There can be good films, bad ones and very bad ones on these platforms. That is why, what can be done there? People are giving suggestions and we are looking into all of them. These are the challenges. Hundreds of people write on these issues and we are deliberating on them,” he said.The I&B minister, however, asserted that in his opinion people from the press or media should take lead so that an ideal forum supporting responsible freedom is established.“The government does not want to enter this (regulation) and also not curb any freedom. However, when the government is showing trust, those in journalism should also present an example of responsible journalism,” the minister said, adding that this was a challenge and “our work this year”.Also Read: CBI books 16 for ‘defamatory’ content against judges on social media Speaking on the issue of TRP manipulation, an issue that came to the fore recently, involving Republic TV, Javadekar said while the government was reluctant to enter into this domain but it had to set up a committee to look into issues as the situation demanded.“To check the possibility of any TRP manipulation and address the issue, we have formed a committee which will give its report very soon,” he said.At the event, President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi also, in their messages, emphasised on the importance of a free media while lauding the work done by journalists to spread awareness about Covid-19.In his written message, which was read out at the event, President Ram Nath Kovind said media persons were among frontline corona warriors who played a major role in educating people and mitigating the impact of the pandemic.The vice president, through a video message, said the press in India has always been at the vanguard of protecting and strengthening the foundations of democracy.“Democracy cannot survive without a free and fearless press. Therefore, any attack on the freedom of the press is detrimental to national interests and should be opposed by one and all,” Naidu said.The prime minister also lauded the media for doing an exceptional service by spreading awareness against COVID-19 and said that it has acted as a valuable stakeholder in helping the government in its initiatives. His message was read out by PCI Chairman C K Prasad during the webinar conducted to celebrate the occasion.Modi said that at a time the world is up against an unprecedented crisis in the form of Covid-19, the nation’s fight against the pandemic is powered by the restraint and resolve of its 130 crore citizens.“In such a scenario, the media has been continuously doing exceptional service by spreading awareness against the Covid pandemic. In a post-Covid world, India is marching ahead with its resolve to build a strong and ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’. Media is giving our resolve the shape of a big campaign and carrying forward the message of ‘Vocal for Local’,” he said.The government could also consider changes in the Press and Registration of Books (PRB) Act to deal with digital media entities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-considering-common-code-of-conduct-for-tv-news-channels-backs-self-regulation/story-HDecpffJim3uO96m6YTCPM.html
16-11-2020||India||In 2-line tweet, Prashant Kishor throws many punches at ex-boss Nitish Kumar||Prashant Kishor, the political strategist who had worked closely with Nitish Kumar during the 2015 assembly elections before they fell out earlier this year, tweeted his congratulatory message to the Bihar chief minister as soon as he started his fourth straight term.Kumar took oath as chief minister on Monday afternoon after the Bharatiya Janata Party decided to stick with Nitish Kumar despite the less than impressive performance of the Janata Dal United in the just-concluded assembly elections.Nitish Kumar’s party, once considered the senior partner in the ruling Bihar alliance, won only 43 seats in the 243-member assembly, in contrast to the BJP’s 74 seats. The depleted strength of the JDU in the assembly is reflected in the composition of the council of ministers that was sworn-in with Kumar. The BJP has seven ministers in Nitish Kumar’s team as compared to five ministers from the JDU. One cabinet berth each has gone to the smaller allies, Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM) and Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP).“Congratulations to Nitish Kumar for taking oath as the BJP-nominated chief minister,” tweeted Prashant Kishor, an effort to underline Nitish Kumar’s dependence on the BJP.Kishor continued.“With a tired and politically belittled leader as CM, #Bihar should brace for (a) few more years of lacklustre governance,” Prashant Kishor said in a tweet that appeared to echo the campaign pitch of the opposition.Through the campaigning, Rashtriya Janata Dal’s Tejashwi Yadav who led the Grand Alliance of opposition parties, or Mahagathbandhan, had put Nitish Kumar’s 15 years as Bihar chief minister at the heart of its pitch. Tejashwi Yadav would frequently claim that Nitish Kumar was tired, an attempt to dent the public perception during his early years in power that Nitish Kumar is an efficient and effective administrator.Prashant Kishor had strategised for Nitish Kumar ahead of the 2015 elections when arch rivals - JDU, RJD and Congress - had come together to form a grand alliance to stop the BJP from coming to power. Nitish Kumar walked out of this alliance in 2017 when he pole vaulted into the BJP’s camp, accusing Tejashwi Yadav - his deputy from the RJD - of corruption.Nitish Kumar’s switch had ejected Tejashwi Yadav from the treasury benches in the assembly to the opposition but the 31-year-old had promptly hit the ground running in his new role, campaigning against Nitish Kumar. Tejashwi Yadav’s RJD, which had emerged as the single largest party in the elections, was projected to be within striking distance of power by most exit polls.The Tejashwi Yadav-led alliance boycotted Monday’s oath ceremony, claiming the mandate in the elections was “against the NDA” which has been changed by a “fraud”. Tejashwi Yadav later tweeted his congratulations to Nitish Kumar, stressing that he had been nominated as chief minister. Tejashwi Yadav also added that he hoped Nitish Kumar would, instead of struggling to retain the chief minister’s chair, give priority to delivering the NDA’s promise on 19 lakh jobs, education, health and irrigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-nominated-cm-prashant-kishor-s-acerbic-message-to-nitish-kumar/story-TZeMVQz218Xu5TyOus7HXK.html
16-11-2020||India||Top BJP leaders congratulate Nitish Kumar after he takes oath as Bihar CM for record 7th time||Janata Dal (United) chief Nitish Kumar took oath on Monday as Bihar’s chief minister for a record seventh time. Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) were sworn in as the deputy chief ministers of the state. Several BJP leaders have extended their wish to the chief minister and the deputy chief ministers after they were sworn in at Raj Bhawan in Patna.BJP president Jagat Prakash Nadda congratulated Kumar and all the newly sworn-in ministers in Bihar cabinet. Taking to Twitter, Nadda said that the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) will provide a “pro-farmer, women, youth and development-oriented” government in the state. He assured the people of Bihar that NDA is committed to fulfilling their aspirations.Devendra Fadnavis, BJP in-charge for Bihar Assembly elections, expressed delight over the NDA’s victory in Bihar. Speaking to ANI, Fadnavis stressed that the government will run for the next five years and take Bihar forward. Bihar’s firebrand BJP leader Giriraj Singh also extended his hearty congratulations to Nitish Kumar and all other leaders who took oath at the swear-in ceremony.Also Read: Nitish Kumar forms government in Bihar, inducts new Cabinet. Full list of ministers hereUnion I&B minister Prakash Javadekar expressed confidence that Bihar will achieve new dimensions of development under Kumar’s leadership. “Many congratulations and best wishes to Shri Nitish Kumar for taking the oath of Chief Minister of Bihar for the seventh time,” tweeted Javadekar.Defence minister Rajnath Singh wished Bihar chief minister and deputy chief ministers all the best for fulfilling the aspirations of the people of Bihar. Congratulating the three newly elected leaders, Union minister of railways Piyush Goyal expressed confidence that Bihar will continue its “development journey by adding more new dimensions of progress.”NDA crossed the magic figure of 122-mark to form the government, out of which JD(U) has won 43 seats and BJP grabbed 74 seats. Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) and Vikassheel Insaan Party shared 4 seats each, helping the tally to reach 125.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-bjp-leaders-congratulate-nitish-kumar-after-he-takes-oath-as-bihar-cm-for-record-7th-time/story-Xfvy5nPtYhNoxDkfEw7lhO.html
16-11-2020||India||Amid snowfall, Kedarnath and Yamunotri shrines close for winter season||The Kedarnath and Yamunotri shrines were closed for the winter season on Monday after special prayers amid snowfall. The portals for Kedarnath closed at 8:30 am in the presence of chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Adityanath, while the portals of Yamunotri shrine in Uttarkashi district closed at 12:15 pm. This year over 1,35,000 pilgrims visited the Kedarnath shrine in Rudraprayag district of Uttarakhand since the Char Dham yatra resumed July 1. Yamunotri shrine in Uttarkashi district welcomed 8,000 pilgrims this year. On Monday morning, the shrine was opened at 3 am when the chief priest Shivshankar Ling performed the Samadhi Puja of Lord Kedar and the sanctum sanctorum was closed at 6:30 am. At 8:30 am the assembly hall and the main gate of the shrine were closed. Harish Gaur, media in-charge of Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board said, “This year, 1,35,023 pilgrims have visited the Kedarnath shrine since pilgrims were allowed to visit the shrine from July 1 following all safety protocols in view of Covid-19 pandemic. The deity will now stay in his winter abode of Ukhimath for the next six months and the palanquin left for the winter abode after closing of the shrine.” The palanquin with the deity will reach the winter abode of Onkareshwar temple on November 18 after which prayers will be offered there. Adityanath along with Rawat was scheduled to visit Badrinath shrine on Monday, but due to snowfall and inclement weather, the duo was not able to leave from Kedarnath till late afternoon.“I was supposed to inaugurate a tourist guest house of the Uttar Pradesh government near Badrinath shrine but we are stuck due to snowfall. Another guest house has been made by the Uttar Pradesh government near Haridwar, which is almost ready and will be inaugurated before next year’s Maha Kumbh,” Adityanath said. He also spoke of cooperation between Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand.“All issues of dispute between Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand have been solved and in future also we will continue to work together. There was a case regarding an Alaknanda Guest House in Haridwar, which was pending in Supreme Court, that has also been resolved and it was decided that the guest house will be given to Uttarakhand government,” Adityanath said.On the occasion of Bhai Dooj, special prayers were offered to Goddess Yamuna before the portals of Yamunotri closed for the next six months. Kriteshwar Uniyal, secretary of the Yamunotri Temple committee said, “Now for the next six months, devotees will be able to offer prayers to the Goddess Yamuna at her winter abode in Kharsali village in Uttarkashi district, where priests from the Uniyal community will conduct prayers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-snowfall-kedarnath-and-yamunotri-shrines-close-for-winter-season/story-rfBLNfuthyz5ICDo8oiqiM.html
16-11-2020||India||CBI books 16 for ‘defamatory’ content against judges on social media||The The Central Bureau of Investigation(CBI) has booked 16 individuals for allegedly posting defamatory content against judges of the Supreme Court and the Andhra Pradesh High Court on social media, officials said on Monday.The case was earlier being probed by the Andhra Pradesh The Central Bureau of Investigation(CID).The Andhra Pradesh High Court had directed the CBI to probe the case and submit a report to it in a sealed cover within eight weeks.The next hearing of the case is scheduled on December 14.Taking cognizance of the alleged defamatory posts, the high court had directed the CBI to probe the role of prominent persons in the southern state, who were intentionally targeting the Supreme Court and high court judges.“The postings were made to bring hatred, contempt, incite disaffection and ill-will against the High Court and Hon’ble judges,” the court had noted.The bench comprising justices Rakesh Kumar and J Uma Devi had passed the order after a series of allegedly derogatory posts were made on social media platforms against judges and the judiciary, following some court verdicts that went against the state government.On the directions of the high court, its registrar general got a complaint lodged with the CID, giving names and related evidence, but the state police wing reportedly booked only nine people.“Their comments are perilous to democracy and amounted to an attack on the judiciary. If some ordinary person makes any comment against the government, cases are promptly registered against such persons”.“When persons in positions made comments against the judges and the courts, why have cases not been filed? Looking at things, we are left to infer that a war has been declared on the judiciary,” the bench commented orally during a hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-books-16-for-defamatory-content-against-judges-on-social-media/story-3zmWX75rprfi0l0bCeV1XM.html
16-11-2020||India||Congress MP Manish Tewari tests positive for Covid-19||Congress MP and former Union minister Manish Tewari on Monday said he has tested positive for Covid-19.Tewari got himself tested after running mild fever.“I have tested positive for Covid-19 today afternoon. I got up with mild fever around 2 AM last night. Got myself tested first thing in the morning. Two parallel Tests. No other symptoms so far,” the MP from Sri Anandpur Sahib said in a tweet.The former Union minister for Information and Broadcasting said “all those who have been in contact with me over the past few days are advised caution.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-mp-manish-tewari-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-TZm0bqjgAbNAbUXhSlTyJJ.html
16-11-2020||India||A slimmer Ganesh sweats it out in Lucknow||National Award-winning choreographer Ganesh Acharya is enjoying his stint as an actor. Seen in a slimmer avatar after losing 98 kgs, he is currently shooting for ‘Dehati Disco’ on the outskirts of Lucknow where he plays the leading role. “It has been a working Diwali this time but it’s a happy feeling that we are able to work during the unlock phase. For us work is ‘puja’ (worship), so it’s a good omen to work on auspicious days. Since I was in Lucknow, I called my entire family here for festival,” says the ABCD actor. Earlier weighing 200 kgs, he has now come down to 102 kgs and is sweating it out to shed more kilos. “A lot of hard work has gone in it. Combination of three-hour of gym workout, aquatic regime, exercise and diet has made it all possible. I have been working on it for over a year but this lockdown gave a golden opportunity to work more on it and made it possible. Hum industry wale pagal hote hain, isliye kuch bhi kar jate hain.” Talking of his fat to fit avatar, he says, “Many years back, I did a film ‘Hey Bro’ for which I had gained weight. Now, for this role, I am giving my best.” As he plays the leading role in the film, he says, “This is a very different kind of film. Unlike my comic roles, this is a much serious role, action and dance. I play a father who has a 10-year-old son. It’s a dance film based on Hindustani ‘kala’ (art form). Since I have directed films as well, all those experiences I am utilising in my role.” Acharya has earlier choreographed for ‘Bullet Raja’ and ‘Jolly LLB2’ in Lucknow. “This time we were able to find a beautiful village and the location that we were looking for. In his corona phase, even with big cast and crew, we are able to work so freely maintaining social distancing which is the need of the hour.” In the unlock phase he choreographed for Akshay Kumar’s film ‘Bell Bottom’ in Scotland for a month. His song in ‘Laxmii’ did well and his upcoming films are ‘Coolie No 1’, ‘Bhuj’, ‘Toofan’ and ‘Bell Bottom’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/a-slimmer-ganesh-sweats-it-out-in-lucknow/story-7Xh0t8I8RNHh4xLIQaa3mJ.html
16-11-2020||India||PM Narendra Modi, President Xi Jinping to join Brics Summit tomorrow||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Xi Jinping will be on the same platform within a week when leaders of the Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (Brics) grouping convene for a virtual summit on Tuesday to focus on economic recovery amid the Covid-19 pandemic. At the invitation of Russian President Vladimir Putin, Modi will join the virtual Brics Summit with the theme “Global stability, shared security and innovative growth”. The summit, being held in the backdrop of the pandemic, will discuss intra-Brics cooperation and key global issues such as reforming the multilateral system, measures to mitigate the impact of the Covid-19 crisis, and cooperation in counter-terrorism, trade, health and energy. This will be the second time Modi and Xi will be on the same virtual platform since the India-China border standoff emerged in May.On November 10, Modi and Xi participated in the virtual summit of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO), also hosted by Russia. In an indirect reference to China’s Belt and Road Initiative, Modi had urged SCO members to respect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of countries while implementing connectivity projects. He had also taken a swipe at Pakistan, saying it was unfortunate that repeated attempts are being made to violate the SCO charter by raising bilateral issues. Russia had subsequently backed India’s position on this matter. The top leadership of India and China are expected to be on the same online platform during five meetings this month. Besides the SCO Summit on November 10, the East Asia Summit on November 14 and the Brics Summit on November 17, the two countries will also participate in the G20 Summit during November 21-22 and the SCO council of heads of government meeting on November 30. In 2021, India will take over as chair of Brics for the third time since the grouping’s inception and host the next summit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-president-xi-jinping-to-join-brics-summit-tomorrow/story-JkIzCD9q04byVVA9BEC09L.html
16-11-2020||India||PM Modi to attend 12th BRICS summit with Putin, Xi Jinping; terrorism, trade in focus||Prime minister Narendra Modi will be attending the 12th BRICS Summit hosted by Russia on November 17, the ministry of external affairs said. The theme for this year’s summit has been decided as ‘Global stability, shared security and innovative growth’ and the meet will be conducted in a virtual format, the ministry said. The ministry also confirmed that India will host the next session of the BRICS summit in 2021.The 12th Summit will see the leaders from Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa engage in topics ranging from intra-BRICS cooperation and key issues in the global context, the official statement read.In addition to PM Modi, BRICS leaders Chinese President Xi Jinping, Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro and Russian President Vladimir Putin are also scheduled to attend the summit.“During the 12th Summit, held in the backdrop of the 75th Anniversary of UN and in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic, leaders would be discussing intra-BRICS cooperation and key issues in the global context, including the reform of the multilateral system, measures to mitigate the impact of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, cooperation in Counter Terrorism, trade, health, energy and people to people exchanges,” MEA said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-attend-12th-brics-summit-with-putin-xi-jinping-terrorism-trade-in-focus/story-1mmLUBWKAo3tyjufeFiTiK.html
16-11-2020||India||Rajasthan’s paddy farmers look at Joe Biden with hope, it’s about Iran||Paddy farmers of Rajasthan’s Hadoti region and some other parts of India are selling their basmati quality paddy produce at half of the last year’s price as exports to the biggest market, Iran, has fallen due to United States trade sanctions against the Gulf state. About one-third of the rice exported from India goes to Iran.“I recently sold 20 quintals of quality Bundi rice for Rs 2000 per quintal. About three years ago, the price was Rs 4000 per quintal,” said Manveer Singh Virk, a paddy grower from Surajmal Nagar in Bundi district of Rajasthan.Virk said because of the fall in prices they are unable to recover the cost of Rs 25,000 to Rs 30,000 incurred for per acre of cultivation. “Rice cultivation is not as profitable as it used to be earlier,” he said.Dashrath Kumar, general secretary of Hadoti farmers union said the rice produced in Kota region is mostly exported because of its Basmati like aroma and thin and long rice grain. “The demand is high in Iran because of its taste and smell,” he said.According to Rajasthan agriculture department, rice was grown on around 1.12 hectares of land in the Hadoti region this year and the estimated rice production would be around 4 lakh metric tonnes.But, the farmers are not getting the best price for their crop as exports to the Gulf and Iran have reduced due to strained US-Iran relationship. “With decline in export of rice from Kota region due to sanctions against Iran by the US, the prices have dipped substantially,” said farmer leader Jagdish Kumar.Joint Director, agriculture, Kota region, Ramavtar Sharma, agreed and said that less export demand has led to a crash in the prices.According to the US Department of State website, the US had imposed several economic sanctions against Iran since early this year for Tehran’s purported support to terrorist groups. The sanctions are aimed to contain Iran’s nuclear programme and as a punishment for the alleged violation of human rights.Also Read| Fund set up to plug gaps in food supply a hit among investorsThe US also asked countries not to buy crude-oil from Iran. A huge dip in international oil prices during Covid-19 pandemic also affected Iran’s cash inflow badly. Rice exporter, Neelesh Patel, said Iran was the major buyer of rice produced in Hadoti region but a decline in its purchasing power, due to the drop in the crude oil prices during Covid-19 pandemic and the US sanctions on its oil sale, had led to this situation.In 2019-20, India exported rice worth Rs 32,000 crore, of which about 10,800 crore was exported to Iran alone, according to an estimate by the All India Rice Exporters Association. Earlier this year, the association issued an advisory to all its members asking them to be cautious and not to send rice shipment to Iran till the situation improves.“Dues worth Rs 800 crore to big Indian exporters are still pending with Iranian firms. We have not got payment for exports last year and therefore traders are not willing to export rice on credit,” Patel said.Chauthmal Nagar, a board of management member of Agriculture University, Kota, blamed the US-Iran stand-off and the low demand for high quality rice in Gulf countries due to Covid-19 as the main reasons for Hadoti rice fetching poor price.However, farmers and rice traders in the region believe that the situation may change with Joe Biden taking over as US President from Donald Trump in January 2021.Dashrath Kumar said now with the election of Joe Biden as new US President, the rice farmers are hopeful of the revival of rice exports soon. He added that the farmer organizations of Hadoti region have been asking the Central government to resolve the rice export issues claiming it alone can help in fetching the right price for the farmers in the domestic market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-s-paddy-farmers-look-at-joe-biden-with-hope-it-s-about-iran/story-p2B9DE5QfMeoK0iIfAJHfL.html
16-11-2020||India||‘Ask BJP,’ says Nitish Kumar on why Sushil Modi was dropped from Bihar cabinet||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Monday said the decision to replace Sushil Modi, who has been in the chair of Bihar’s deputy chief minister for the maximum period since 2005, was taken by the BJP. “They should be asked about this,” Kumar said after his swearing-in ceremony in Patna.In a surprise element, the BJP introduced the two deputy CM formula in Bihar, after it did the same in Uttar Pradesh and many other states where it is in power. Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi have been chosen as the deputy CMs. Sushil Modi may get a post in the Centre, reports said. Also Read: Nitish Kumar takes oath as Bihar CM, 14 ministers inducted into cabinetThis move is being seen as a first indication that though JD(U) will have its leader as the CM, BJP might wield more power in the government. And the way has been paved by the votes — while the BJP won 74 seats, the JD(U) won only 43 seats.On the formation of the new government, Nitish said, “Based on the public decision, NDA has once again formed the government in the state. We will work together and serve the people.”Also Read: Chirag Paswan congratulates Nitish Kumar and BJP. But for two different reasonsAfter the name of the two deputy CMs became public after the NDA meeting on Sunday, Sushil Modi said he would remain a party worker and no one can take away that post. “The BJP and the Sangh Parivar gave me so much in the political life of 40 years. I will discharge the responsibility that will be given to me. No one can take away the post of the party worker,” Sushil Modi tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ask-bjp-says-nitish-kumar-on-why-sushil-modi-was-dropped-from-bihar-cabinet/story-l8eaOOjLnu1wgaTkZvFoNJ.html
16-11-2020||India||Nitish Kumar takes oath as Bihar CM for 7th time, gets two deputies from BJP||The new NDA government in Bihar was sworn in Monday evening with Nitish Kumar taking oath as chief minister for the seventh time with two deputy chief ministers - Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi from the BJP – in the cabinet namely.A total of 14 ministers in the new cabinet also took oath. Five of them from the JD(U) and seven from the BJP and two from smaller allies, HAM(S) and VIP. Kumar was administered the oath of office by Governor Phagu Chauhan at a simple ceremony at the Raj Bhawan which was attended by BJP national president J P Nadda, Union home minister Amit Shah and other prominent BJP leaders including former chief minister of Maharashtra Devendra Fadnavis. Both Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi were administered the oath after the chief minister indicating their position as number 2 and number 3 in the new council of ministers. They both sat beside Nitish Kumar at the main dais. The other prominent faces inducted as ministers are former Speaker in the previous NDA government, Vijay Kumar Choudhary, Bijendra Prasad Yadav, Ashok Choudhary, Mewalal Choudhary and Sheela Kumari (all from the JD(U). From the BJP, Mangal Pandey, former health minister and Amarendra Pratap Singh, former deputy Speaker and senior party leader, Rampreet Paswan, Jibesh Kumar and Ramsurat Kumar were sworn in as ministers. Paswan took oath in Maithili as he hails from Madhubani district and won from Rajnagar assembly seat. Jibesh Kumar, another BJP MLA from Jale in Darbhanga, was also sworn in as minister . He also took oath in Maithili. The Mithilanchal region comprising Darbhanga and Madhubani got wider representation in the cabinet with three new faces from the districts namely Paswan, Jibesh Kumar and Sheela Kumari. The BJP and JD (U) performed well in the Mithilanchal region where Prime Minister Narendra Modi had addressed rallies during the campaign. Santosh Kumar Suman, son of Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi and Mukesh Sahani, chief of Vikasheel Insaan Party, also took oath as ministers in the new cabinet. Both HAM(S) and VIP are key smaller allies in the new NDA government having four MLAs each. Former deputy chief minister and senior BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi was also present although he was not seen much in the confabulations throughout the day among JD(U) and BJP leaders at the CM’s residence to decide on the ministerial faces, giving rise to speculations that Modi is apparently unhappy over not being re-appointed as deputy CM in the new government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitish-kumar-takes-oath-as-bihar-cm-for-7th-time-gets-two-deputies-from-bjp/story-HV1PjhT6ZFACksC4eM2VpN.html
16-11-2020||India||‘NDA family will work together for Bihar’s progress’: PM congratulates Nitish||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday congratulated Nitish Kumar on taking oath as Bihar chief minister and said NDA family will work together for state’s progress.“Congratulations to @NitishKumar Ji on taking oath as Bihar’s CM. I also congratulate all those who took oath as Ministers in the Bihar Government. The NDA family will work together for the progress of Bihar. I assure all possible support from the Centre for the welfare of Bihar,” PM Modi tweeted.Kumar was formally named the leader of the state’s ruling alliance at a meeting of the NDA MLAs on Sunday. The meeting was also attended by senior BJP leader and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, the party’s state in-charge Bhupendra Yadav and election in-charge Devendra Fadnavis.Apart from Kumar, a host of leaders from the constituent parties of the NDA alliance took oath as cabinet ministers. The deputy CMs — Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi — also took their oath in the ceremony.Santosh Kumar Suman, son of Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi, Mukesh Sahni of Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP), JD(U)’s Vijay Kumar Choudhary, Vijendra Prasad Yadav, Ashok Choudhary and Mewa Lal Choudhary were also sworn in.The swearing-in ceremony comes a day after the Nation Democratic Alliance (NDA) in Bihar chose Kumar as the chief minister for another term. Deputy chief ministers. Eight other ministers from NDA constituents — BJP, JD(U), HAM and VIP were also sworn in today.The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD)and its chief Tejashwi Yadav boycotted the oath ceremony. “Best wishes to respected Nitish Kumar ji for being ‘nominated’ as Chief Minister. I hope instead of pursuing his ambitions, he will fulfill the aspirations of the public and will fulfill NDA’s promise of 19 lakh jobs, and will make positive issues like employment, health, income generation, irrigation his priority,” the 31-year-old tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nda-family-will-work-together-for-bihar-s-progress-pm-modi-congratulates-nitish-kumar/story-5cCedhIBnRkmmO5UHhgXGN.html
16-11-2020||India||Chirag Paswan congratulates Nitish Kumar and BJP. But for two different reasons||Lok Janshakti Party chief Chirag Paswan, who was projected to be a crucial factor in Bihar’s new government but then turned out to be a damp squib, congratulated both Nitish Kumar and the BJP, soon after the swearing-in ceremony on Monday. “Congratulations to you for being the CM once again and congratulations to BJP for making you the CM,” Nitish Kumar’s bete noire Paswan tweeted. In fact, he was one of the first political leaders to congratulate Nitish for his fourth consecutive time at the helm of Bihar.Also Read: “I am sending you the vision document prepared by four lakh Biharis so that you can implement some from them. Congratulations once again on becoming the Chief Minister and the Bharatiya Janata Party for making you the Chief Minister,” Chirag tweeted. 4 लाख बिहारीयों द्वारा बनाया गया #बिहार1stबिहारी1st विजन डॉक्यूमेंट आप को भेज रहा हूँ ताकी उसमें से भी जो कार्य आप पुरा कर सकें वह कर दें। एक बार पुनः आप को मुख्यमंत्री बनने की और भारतीय जनता पार्टी को आप को मुख्यमंत्री बनाने के लिए बधाई।https://t.co/kZvjg56fRZ आदरणीय @NitishKumar जी को फिर से मुख्यमंत्री बनने की बधाई। आशा करता हूँ सरकार अपना कार्यकाल पुरा करेगी और आप एन॰डी॰ए॰ के ही मुख्यमंत्री बने रहेंगे।Earlier, Paswan wished for a complete term for Nitish Kumar. “I hope the government will complete its tenure and you will continue to be the Chief Minister of NDA,” he tweeted.The LJP which is an NDA constituent in the Centre severed its ties with the NDA and decided to contest alone in the elections. In a twist, it continued supporting the BJP aiming at an NDA government in Bihar minus the JD(U). But LJP managed to win only one seat though it was successful in cutting JD(U) votes, as Nitish Kumar himself has admitted. With only 43 seats, JD(U) has now made way for the BJP — which won 74 seats — to be the senior party in the alliance. keeping its pre-election promise, the NDA chose Nitish Kumar as their leader in Bihar, which also carries stamp from BJP’s top leadership. Prime Minister Narendra Modi acknowledged Kumar’s leadership, his development initiatives, women empowerment programmes for the victory in Bihar. However, JD(U)’s performance and RJD emerging as the single-largest party in the election made Kumar’s road to the CM chair for the fourth consecutive term a little bumpy. Terming NDA’s victory as PM Modi’s victory, Paswan wrote, “I hope the new government materialises the dream of a self-reliant Bihar. Respected Narendra Modi ji has won a big victory in Bihar. It is the wish of all Bihari to have a better change in Bihar’s conditions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chirag-paswan-congratulates-nitish-kumar-and-bjp-but-for-two-different-reasons/story-XR8oHhQLv7S0OgPiq0rLBO.html
16-11-2020||India||Centre agrees to deploy 5 new CRPF battalions in Maoist-hit Bastar in a ‘bold’ move||Accepting the demand of the Chhattisgarh government, the Union ministry of home will deploy five extra battalions of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) in Bastar region, officials said on Monday. The officials said that Chhattisgarh chief minister, in September 2020, wrote a letter to Union home minister Amit Shah and urged him for deployment of seven battalions of (CRPF) in Bastar region-- sanctioned in 2018-- and also for installation of mobile towers. “Taking cognisance of the demand, the union home minister has decided to send five battalions as soon as possible,” said a senior official privy to the development. The official further stated that CM Baghel wrote a letter to home minister Amit Shah, on November 12, and thanked him for accepting the demand and also made some suggestions to eradicate Maoism from Bastar region. “Out of the seven additional CRPF battalions allocated to the state in 2018, five battalions were immediately directed to be deployed in the Bastar region. As per the information I’ve received, a special recruitment rally for Indian Army is being considered in Bastar division in March 2021 to provide employment opportunities to the youth of Bastar while giving them a chance to render a national service. With your kind initiative on both of these subjects, we will reach a decisive edge in the anti-Naxal campaign,” Baghel stated in his letter. The officials posted in Bastar claimed that the impact of the five newly-deployed battalions would be incumbent on the speed and safety with which Bastar police assist in their induction in the designated places. Bihar: Maoists blow up community hall in Gaya, demand Rs2 crore from JD(U) leader“Five battalions means 30 companies, which further means that more than 20 locations would be acquired. Most of these locations are in security vacuum areas considered core areas of the Maoists. There will be strong resistance from the Maoists against CRPF acquiring advanced locations,” said an IPS officer posted in the region. Another intelligence officer deployed in the Bastar region said, “As all the five battalions are to be deployed in Sukma and Bijapur districts, the security forces in both districts would be tested.” “It seems governments (both central and state) have decided to take the battle to the end and aggressive deployment of CRPF companies can be a game changer,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-agrees-to-deploy-5-new-crpf-battalions-in-maoist-hit-bastar-in-a-bold-move/story-lucY5sHtOMS3tncsMJuRON.html
16-11-2020||India||PM Modi urges spiritual leaders to promote ‘AtmaNirbharta’ by going vocal for local||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday urged all spiritual leaders to promote “AtmaNirbharta” (self-reliance) by going vocal for local.Speaking after unveiling the ‘Statue of Peace’ to mark the 151st birth anniversary celebrations of Jainacharya Shree Vijay Vallabh Surishwer Ji Maharaj, via video conferencing, the Prime Minister said, all the spiritual leaders should amplify the message of “AtmaNirbharta” and preach about the benefits of ‘vocal for local’, just as it happened during the freedom struggleMentioning two ‘Vallabhs’, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and the Jainacharya Shree Vijay Vallabh Surishwer Ji Maharaj, the Prime Minister said that he feels blessed by the fact that after dedicating the world’s tallest statue of Sardar Patel,‘Statue of Unity’, he is getting the opportunity to unveil the ‘Statue of Peace’ of the Jainacharya Shri Vijay Vallabh.“Reiterating his stress on ‘vocal for local’, PM Modi requested that as happened during the freedom struggle, all the spiritual leaders should amplify the message of “AtmaNirbharta” and preach about the benefits of ‘vocal for local’,” according to a release by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO). The Prime Minister said India has always shown the path of peace, non-violence, and friendship to the world. Today the world is looking towards India for similar guidance.“If you look at the history of India, whenever the need arose, some saintly figure emerged to guide the society, Acharya Vijay Vallabh was one such saint,” he said. Mentioning the educational institutions established by the Jainacharya, the Prime Minister praised his efforts to make the country “AtmaNirbhar” in the field of education as he established many institutes imbued with Indian values in states like Punjab, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Maharashtra, and Uttar Pradesh.He said these institutions have given so many industrialists, judges, doctors, and engineers who have given yeoman service to the nation.The Prime Minister underscored the debt that the country owes to the efforts of these institutions in the field of women’s education.“These institutions kept the flame of female education alive in those difficult times. The Jainacharya established many institutions for girl children and brought women to the mainstream. The life of Acharya Vijay Vallabh ji was full of kindness, compassion and love for every living being. With his blessings, Bird Hospital and many gaushalas are running in the country today. These are not ordinary institutions. These are the embodiment of the spirit of India and the hallmarks of India and Indian values,” he said. The statue unveiled in the honour of the Jainacharya has been named as ‘Statue of Peace’. The 151-inch tall statue has been made from Ashtadhatu i.e. 8 metals, with Copper being the major constituent, and is installed at Vijay Vallabh Sadhana Kendra, Jetpura, in Pali, Rajasthan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-urges-spiritual-leaders-to-promote-atmanirbharta-by-going-vocal-for-local/story-T9YKIdqc2zFFTkOQLtEN8N.html
16-11-2020||India||Gupkar alliance an exploitative outfit formed to grab power: BJP||The Jammu and Kashmir unit of the BJP on Monday called constituents of Gupkar Alliance an “exploitative outfit”, whose sole aim was to come to power and “hide their misdeeds”.The BJP also asked Congress to make its stand clear on joining the Gupkar Alliance, which has “openly given pro-Pak and pro-China statements”. “Gupkar alliance is not a political organisation but an exploitative outfit. The sole aim of this group is to come to power and at the same time hide their black deeds like illegally occupying land, getting them regularised, corruption cases and murders at the CM’s residence. Since all these cases will be investigated, they have joined hands to get power and hide their misdeeds,” BJP’s chief spokesman advocate Sunil Sethi told reporters.Sethi said that despite joining hands, differences have cropped up among the constituents over allotment of tickets for the upcoming District Development Council (DDC) polls. “While PDP has become the assistant of the NC, senior leaders and workers have started leaving PDP,” he said. One of the founding members of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and former minister Muzaffar Hussain Beigh recently quit the party.“It is the same story with other parties in the alliance. I am confident that rebel leaders and workers of the PDP, who will contest as independents, will emerge winners from Kashmir in the upcoming polls,” he said. Sethi also expressed surprise that the Congress joined the Gupkar bandwagon.“The Congress has to clear its stand. It should tell the people whether it endorses the pro-Pak and pro-China statements of PDP and NC. Congress cannot sail into boats and try to fool the people. The people won’t allow their duplicity to succeed,” he said. The BJP spokesman also took a swipe at the NC and the PDP saying “till recently they were not ready to contest any elections and demanded restoration of Article 370 and today they are on board just to get into the corridors of power.”Earlier in the day, Ravinder Raina, the JP’s chief in Jammu and Kashmir said the Congress joining teh Gupkar Alliance was “treachery”. “Congress has embraced those (Gupkar alliance), who speak the language of Xi Jinping, Syed Salahuddin, Azhar Masons and Hafiz Dared. It amounts to treason. By joining Gupkar alliance Congress has joined Pakistan and China but people will not forgive them, “ said. Raina further said that Congress wanted to deprive Dalits, West Pakistan refugees, women and Valmikis of their basic rights in J&K.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gupkar-alliance-an-exploitative-outfit-formed-to-grab-power-bjp/story-TbbgeJS2BcdbnVToF3lgvL.html
16-11-2020||India||Woman’s body found in a lake 3 days after quarrel with husband||The body of a 45-year-old housewife was found in a lake in Diva on Monday morning, three days after she left home following a fight. Police suspect she died by suicide.The woman, Savita Shirsagar, a resident of Ganesh Nagar in Diva had been missing since Friday when she left home after a fight with her husband.Shirsagar did not leave behind a suicide note. Around 9 am, a few locals alerted the police about the body, which had floated to the top of the lake.“The fire brigade officials reached the lake and pulled the body out. The body was bloated and it was handed over to police officials,” Santosh Kadam, Regional Disaster Management Cell chief, Thane Municipal Corporation said.According to the police, the woman had a domestic fight with her unemployed husband, over his drinking habit. Her two daughters are married.“The reason behind her suicide is not yet known except that she had a fight and had left home. No foul play is suspected. We have filed an accidental death report,” said MS Kad, senior inspector at Mumbra police station.Police said even though she did not return home for three days, no missing person’s complaint was filed at the police station.The police will record the statement of her husband and daughters to establish the trigger behind the suicide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-s-body-found-in-a-lake-3-days-after-quarrel-with-husband/story-NEKDM3rMXlM6cXWInmyNPI.html
16-11-2020||India||Centre to regulate sale of veterinary NSAIDS to boost vulture numbers||The Centre plans to stop the misuse and overuse of veterinary non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) that lead to death of vultures by regulating its sale only against prescription and ensuring all treatment of livestock is done by qualified veterinarians. This is one of the key interventions of the Vulture Conservation Action Plan 2020-25, which was released by the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) on Monday.Regulating the sale of veterinary NSAIDs can prevent poisoning of cattle carcasses, which is the primary source of sustenance for vultures. Other interventions under the action plan include carrying out safety tests of available molecules of veterinary NSAIDs on vultures. Also read | UNESCO declares Panna Tiger Reserve a biosphere reserve“The new molecules should be introduced in the market following safety tests on vultures. The Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) must institute a system that removes a drug from veterinary use if it is found to be toxic to vultures,” the plan stated amid a bid to establish new vulture conservation breeding centres in the country.At present, there are eight vulture conservation breeding centres across the country.The plan proposes to have at least one vulture safe zone in each state for the conservation of the remnant populations in that state. The vulture safe zone will be created ensuring low prevalence of toxic NSAIDs in an area spanning a radius of around 100 kilometres (km) from the vulture colony. The Red Headed Vulture and the Egyptian Vulture will receive special attention in the conservation breeding programme, as their numbers have dwindled by over 80%.In the 1980s, the population of three resident vulture species such as Oriental White-backed Vulture, Long-billed Vulture and Slender-billed Vulture in the country was estimated at 40 million, but their count crashed by over 90% in the mid-1990s. By 2007, 99% of these three species of vultures had been wiped out. The numbers of other vulture species also declined rapidly. In 2004, following extensive research the cause of the crash in vulture numbers was identified to be the use of diclofenac, a NSAID. The MoEFCC had released the vulture action plan 2006 to prevent possible extinction of vultures. One of the main interventions under the 2006 plan was to remove the use of diclofenac and curbing leakage of human formulation of diclofenac into the veterinary sector.“However, the vulture populations in the country are still not safe. The populations are precariously small and remain vulnerable to adverse events till their numbers have increased substantially. This vulnerable period will be lengthy because of vultures’ low natural reproductive capacity,” the report stated.Experts lauded the MoEFCC’s move.“It’s a good move and a big decision, if it’s implemented well. I must congratulate the MoEFCC on this key action plan. Though veterinary diclofenac was banned, the drug meant for human use was being used for veterinary purposes in some parts of the country. If NSAIDs are sold only against prescription, the implementation gap can be curbed to a large extent,” said Asad Rahmani, a former director of the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) and a veteran ornithologist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-regulate-sale-of-veterinary-nsaids-to-boost-vulture-numbers/story-f1PxQXGSSdHLmYWAliWEEM.html
16-11-2020||India||10 kids, 2 adults die of ‘unknown’ disease in 4 Jharkhand villages, doctors suspect Malaria||At least 10 children and two adults have died of an ‘unknown’ disease in four different villages under Noamundi block in West Singhbhum district of Jharkhand during the past 15-20 days, putting the district health department on the edge. Health officials said on Monday that all the deaths were in different villages and tollahs in malaria-prone remote Naxalite violence-hit hilly and forested areas. A health team was sent to Gitikendu village, 30 km away from the block headquarter Noamundi, on Monday to examine other sick people and assess the situation on the ground. Three children, 2-year-old Pani Purty, 2-year-old Gita Languri, 2-year-old Ranjit Angariya, 18-year-old Jena Sirka and 25-year-old Ram Sirka alias Selay have died in Gitikendu village during the past fortnight.Earlier, health department teams had identified five malaria patients in Nuia village where two kids – 12-year-old Bablu Champia and 10-year-old Rohit Champia had died of this ‘unknown’ disease. Deaths of four more children were reported from Lupunga village, adjacent to Nuia village, during the past 14 days. 11-yeat-old Mani Kerai, daughter of Birsingh Kerai, also died on Thursday in Chumbrusai tollah in Pokhria village under Noamundi block while about a dozen villagers have fallen sick in the village during the period.“We have sent a team to Gitikendu village today. They will camp there and medically examine the sick people and assess the situation. Three children have died in the village apart from four in Lupunga, two in Nuia and one in Pokhariya during the past 15-20 days. Most of them had high fever and our preliminary suspicion is that they might have died of malaria. We have found five sick people testing positive in Nuia village. The entire area is inside a deep forest and malaria has been prevalent in the area. Further investigation and action will be taken as per the guidance of the senior authorities,” Dr Narendra Kishor Sundi, in-charge of Noamundi community health centre (CHC), said on Monday.West Singhbhum civil surgeon Dr Om Prakash Gupta said this is no epidemic or case of mass-infection as the four deaths in Lupunga village were reported from four different tollahs. “Some of them had high fever while some were having acute loose motion and such symptoms. We have done verbal autopsy and villagers are not able to give much information. Many sick people have tested positive for malaria and treatment is being done accordingly. We are keeping a close eye on these villages and further investigation is on,” Dr Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-kids-2-adults-die-of-unknown-disease-in-4-jharkhand-villages-doctors-suspect-malaria/story-5wVjcp4cckbvKdC5SdbmBK.html
16-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 pm: AAP launches 2nd phase of ‘Red Light On, Gaadi Off’ campaign in Delhi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.As Delhi pollution spikes, AAP launches 2nd phase of ‘Red Light On, Gaadi Off’ campaignThe Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday launched the second phase of ‘Red Light On, Gaadi Off’ campaign in the national capital. Read moreIndia shaped debate on need for transparency in connectivity projects: JaishankarIn an indirect reference to China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Monday that India had shaped the debate on the need for transparency and respect for territorial integrity while implementing connectivity projects. Read moreSonam Kapoor Ahuja proves to fashion world’s ‘knight in shining armour’ in Rs 1.6 lakh jacket, Versace heels and other haute dressesIf there is one Indian celebrity whose sartorial pulse has left international designers smitten, it has to be actor Sonam Kapoor Ahuja who entered the week with a flood of ravishing pictures from her latest photoshoot for a magazine. Read moreBigg Boss 14: Devoleena Bhattacharjee angrily reacts to Salman Khan’s comment about her, Rashami Desai getting less votesDevoleena Bhattacharjee was irked by Bigg Boss 14 host Salman Khan’s comment that she and Rashami Desai were shown the door by the audience in the first five weeks of an earlier season of the reality show, despite being popular stars with a huge fan following. She tweeted to Bigg Boss and said “mujhe gussa mat dilao (don’t make me angry)”. Read moreBhai Dooj 2020: Tweeple celebrate brother-sister relationship with memes dipped in naughtiness and loveThe festival of Bhai Dooj is observed every year to celebrate the lovely bond shared between brothers and sisters. Read moreMaruti sells 2 lakh cars through digital-only channel, boosts online presenceMaruti Suzuki on Monday informed that its online sales channel, first launched in 2018, has been witnessing increased traction with each passing month and that the company had sold 2 lakh units since April of 2019 through digital means alone. Read more‘If Tim Paine plays till 37-38, it may be too late for Steve Smith to become Australia captain,’ says Mark TaylorEven though it is Tim Paine who will be leading Australia troops in the upcoming home series against India, questions are circling around Steve Smith. The right-handed batsman was removed as Australia captain in 2018 after he was banned for 12 months for his role in the ball-tampering scandal. But now that Smith is back into the team, fans continue to wonder if he would ever return as Australia captain. Read moreWatch: Kedarnath shrine wrapped in a blanket of snow, closes for wintersKedarnath shrine was wrapped up in a blanket of snow after the valley and the surrounding hills received fresh spells of snowfall, causing a significant dip in the temperature levels of the hills. Devotees visiting the temple enjoyed the snowfall. Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) informed that the state will receive light showers & snowfall. Snowfall is likely to occur at isolated places with height 3,000 m and above. Earlier, Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat & UP CM Yogi Adityanath participated in the closing ceremony of the shrine’s portals. Kedarnath temple is scheduled to close for winters on November 16. Badrinath temple in Chamoli district also witnessed fresh snowfall. Watch the full video for more. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-aap-launches-2nd-phase-of-red-light-on-gaadi-off-campaign-in-delhi-and-all-the-latest-news/story-fXM15qDaTzqikLhDaHNLDK.html
16-11-2020||India||Telangana reports 502 new cases of Covid-19, lowest since June||Amid apprehensions over a second wave of spread of Sars-Cov-2 across the country, Telangana has been witnessing a steady decline in the number of positive cases for Covid-19 in the last two weeks. Official figures released by the state health department on Monday revealed that the state has reported only 502 positive cases for Covid-19 till 8 pm on Sunday night, which is the lowest in the last five months. The last time the state recorded the lowest number of positive cases was on June 19, when 499 cases were reported. Since then, the state witnessed a steep rise in the Covid-19 cases. The figures reported on Sunday night were the lowest since June 19.The previous day, too, only 661 new Covid-19 positive cases were reported in the state. “Not just in the last two days, if one takes into consideration the overall figures available since the beginning of November, there has been a decline in the number of positive cases in the state,” an official in the state health department said. On November 1, there were 1,416 positive cases in the state. This figure fluctuated between 15,00-1,600 cases for a week, but after that there has been a steady fall in the infections. “The fall in the number of cases is not really in proportion to the number of tests. Except in the last two or three days, we have been conducting on an average around 40,000 tests per day,” the official said. The Covid-19 mortality rate has also fallen. In the last 15 days, there has been only three to four deaths per day, except on November 2 when the toll was 7. Director of health G Srinivasa Rao, however, cautioned the people against being complacent. He said the next three months would be crucial for the people of the state, as the country was bracing up for facing a second wave of Covid-19. “We are hoping to get the vaccine or even proven drugs against Covid-19 in January or February. Till then, people need to be very cautious and continue to take safety measures as they have been doing till now,” he said. He said a survey conducted by the state health department revealed that people were throwing safety precautions to winds in many places. “They have not been wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. This is dangerous. We cannot afford to hold mass gatherings which might result in a spreading of the disease,” Rao said. In neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, too, there has been a sharp fall in the number of positive cases for Covid-19. By Sunday night, there were only 1,056 new cases and 14 deaths. The state has been reporting around 1,500-1,700 cases for the last one week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-reports-502-new-cases-of-covid-19-lowest-since-june/story-dQ57azMI1oU3ZgaqLe1TRJ.html
16-11-2020||India||On Bhai Dooj, coronavirus curbs keep sisters away from brothers lodged in UP jails||Sisters were disappointed on Bhai Dooj as they were not allowed to meet their brothers lodged in Uttar Pradesh’s (UP) Jalaun jail where 62 inmates have contracted coronavirus in recent days.Similar scenes were witnessed in the state’s Shahjahanpur jail due to the precautions taken in the wake of the Covid outbreak. Jalaun Jail Superintendent Sitaram Sharma said due to coronavirus cases in the jail, they had told the inmates’ relatives before Diwali that if they wanted to send any item to their brothers or kin, then they would have to inform them.He said on Monday some women came to the jail to meet their brothers. “They should not have come as they were informed well in advance,” Sharma said. Jalaun Chief Medical officer Dr Alpana Bacariya told PTI that 62 inmates of the jail tested positive for coronavirus in the past some days. Meanwhile in Shahjahanpur, women were stopped at the entrance of the jail.Jail Superintendent Rakesh Sharma said, “Sisters of the inmates, who had come to meet their brothers on Bhai Dooj, were not allowed to enter the premises due to Covid-19. Packed items were sent to the inmates while there was a ban on open sweets.”He said a telecom facility was made available at the entrance so that the woman could speak to their brothers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-bhai-dooj-coronavirus-curbs-keep-sisters-away-from-brothers-lodged-in-up-jails/story-PJ3ctGOjlPtg8BG8Ui5WWP.html
16-11-2020||India||Nitish Kumar takes oath as Bihar CM, says ‘will work together’||In the presence of Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP chief JP Nadda, JD(U) chief Nitish Kumar on Monday took oath as Bihar chief minister for the fourth consecutive term. Apart from Kumar, a host of leaders from the constituent parties of the NDA alliance took oath as cabinet ministers. The deputy CMs — Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi — also took their oath in the ceremony. The presence of Amit Shah was significant as unlike Kumar’s past swearing-in ceremonies, this was a small-scale gathering owing to Covid-19 restrictions. Santosh Kumar Suman, son of Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi, Mukesh Sahni of Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP), JD(U)’s Vijay Kumar Choudhary, Vijendra Prasad Yadav, Ashok Choudhary and Mewa Lal Choudhary were also sworn in.The swearing-in of Vijay Kumar Choudhary as a cabinet minister indicates that the Speaker post is going to BJP as Choudhary was the Speaker in the last term.Also Read: Nitish Kumar forms government in Bihar, inducts new Cabinet. Full list of ministers hereNitish Kumar’s new cabinetSushil Kumar Modi who has been Bihar’s for the maximum time since 2005 has not found any place in the new cabinet. According to reports, he might get a Central berth. The ministers who were sworn in on Monday form the interim cabinet. More ministers will be inducted later on. RJD boycotted Nitish’s swearing-inRJD leader Tejashwi Yadav did not attend the oath-taking ceremony as his party said the election has been rigged. The mandate was “against the NDA”, but has later been changed by a “fraud”. “The RJD boycotts oath-taking ceremony of this puppet government. The mandate is for a change, and against the (ruling) NDA. The peoples verdict has been changed by the rulers order,” the RJD alleged in a tweet.Swearing-in ceremonies in 2010, 2015Bihar state assembly election was the first major election to be held amid Covid-19 pandemic. Bearing the brunt of Covid, the swearing-in ceremony has become small-scale this year. During his previous terms, Kumar had taken oath amid large gatherings of dignitaries and common people at Gandhi Maidan. According to pre-election seat-sharing agreement, the JD (U), which has 43 MLAs, will get a maximum of 14 ministerial berths. BJP which has won 74 seats will get 20 posts in the cabinet. Both HAM (S) and VIP will have to settle for one ministerial berth each.Here are the latest updates of Nitish Kumar swearing-in 2020> The newly formed Bihar cabinet will hold a meeting tomorrow. A special session of the state legislative assembly to be held on November 23.> The new government in Bihar will be pro-farmer, said BJP chief JP Nadda Congrats to @NitishKumar Ji and all newly sworn-in ministers. I am sure that under the guidance of PM @narendramodi Ji, NDA will give pro-farmer, women, youth and development-oriented govt in the State. I assure people of Bihar that NDA is committed to fulfil their aspirations.> Prime Minister Narendra Modi wished Nitish Kumar after his swearing in. Congratulations to @NitishKumar Ji on taking oath as Bihar’s CM. I also congratulate all those who took oath as Ministers in the Bihar Government. The NDA family will work together for the progress of Bihar. I assure all possible support from the Centre for the welfare of Bihar.> Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders Mangal Pandey and Amarendra Pratap Singh take oath as Bihar cabinet ministers. Patna: Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders Mangal Pandey and Amarendra Pratap Singh take oath as Bihar Cabinet Ministers. pic.twitter.com/U9Cn6oR3bk> Santosh Kumar Suman, son of Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi, and Mukesh Sahni of Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) take oath. Patna: Santosh Kumar Suman, son of Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi & Mukesh Sahni of Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) take oath as a Cabinet Minister of Bihar. pic.twitter.com/mYCYhk22Pr> JDU leaders Vijay Kumar Choudhary, Vijendra Prasad Yadav, Ashok Choudhary, and Mewa Lal Choudhary take oath as cabinet ministers of Bihar. Patna: JDU leaders Vijay Kumar Choudhary, Vijendra Prasad Yadav, Ashok Choudhary, and Mewa Lal Choudhary take oath as Cabinet Ministers of Bihar. pic.twitter.com/peFgFjM8vq> Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi take oath as the Deputy Chief Ministers of Bihar. Patna: Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi take oath as the Deputy Chief Ministers of Bihar. pic.twitter.com/60kHuDDzOC> Nitish Kumar takes oath as the Chief Minister of Bihar for the seventh time - his fourth consecutive term. #WATCH: Nitish Kumar takes oath as the Chief Minister of Bihar for the seventh time - his fourth consecutive term. pic.twitter.com/5jcZXabSYw||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitish-kumar-swearing-in-nitish-kumar-takes-oath-as-bihar-cm-for-fourth-consecutive-time-at-the-presence-of-amit-shah-jp-nadda/story-d8nj0PBZ50XQz7k7JudwMO.html
16-11-2020||India||India logs more daily Covid-19 recoveries than new cases for 44 straight days||India continued with its unbroken trend of daily new recoveries surpassing the daily new infections for the 44th consecutive day on Monday. Nearly 43,851 Covid-19 patients recovered in the last 24 hours as against 30,548 new cases of the viral infection reported from across the country.“India continued an unbroken trend of daily new recoveries outpacing daily new additions for the 44th day,” a statement from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) said on Monday.“This translates to a net reduction of nearly 13,303 patients in the active viral caseload, which currently stands at 4,65,478, the MoHFW statement indicated. The country’s recovery rate has improved to 93.27 per cent today. The total recovered cases stand at 82,49,579, the Health Ministry said. ALSO READ | No lockdown in Delhi even as Covid-19 cases go up, says Delhi health minister Satyendar JainThe addition of 30,548 new cases on Monday is a significant dip since many countries across the world are reporting a surge in infections and suspected second waves of the viral disease. A large number of countries in Europe and America are witnessing a sudden sharp spike in the number of daily coronavirus cases.India’s Covid-19 tally climbed to 88,45,127 with 30,548 fresh infections reported in the last 24 hours on Monday. The number of those who have recovered from the viral disease has surged to 82,49,579, according to data by the Union health ministry.The death toll touched 1,30,070 with 435 new fatalities. For the sixth consecutive day, the number of active cases remained below the 5 lakh mark.ALSO READ | Covid-19: Religious places in Maharashtra reopen after seven monthsNearly 78.59 per cent of the recovered cases reported in the last 24 hours belong to 10 states and Union Territories.Among the states, Delhi saw the greatest number of recoveries as 7,606 confirmed patients recovered. Kerala came next with 6,684 daily recoveries followed by West Bengal reporting 4,480 new recoveries.At least 76.63 per cent of the new Covid-19 cases have been reported from 10 states and UTs such as Kerala, Delhi, West Bengal and Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-logs-more-daily-covid-19-recoveries-than-new-cases-for-44-straight-days/story-HLnhX6lw0pFVm5E8tuZJFN.html
16-11-2020||India||Free press ‘soul of democracy’, says Prakash Javadekar||A free press is the cornerstone of democracy, Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting Prakash Javadekar said on Monday. Speaking at a webinar organised by the Press Council of India (PCI) on the ‘Role of media during the Covid-19 pandemic and its impact on media’ on National Press Day, the minister said freedom comes with responsibility and asked news organisations to avoid sensationalism.  “Freedom of press is the soul of democracy. Freedom of press is very important but any freedom comes with responsibility. So, there has to be a responsible freedom and no sensationalism by the press,” the minister said in the video message.“The news should not be to deliberately defame anyone. The way freedom of press is being attacked these days is not good,” he said. Talking about the alleged Television Rating Points (TRP) manipulation by some news channels, the minister said a committee formed by the ministry will soon submit its report on the issue. “To check the TRP manipulation and address the issue, we have formed a committee which will give its report very soon,” he said.  Javadekar also touched upon the issue of absence of a regulatory body for TV channels and said a decision may be taken on bringing a code of conduct for them. “The Press Council of India is a self-regulatory body which has representations from various media houses as well as parliament. There have been discussions on giving more power to the PCI,” he said.  “But for TV channels there is no self-regulatory body like PCI. We are getting suggestions to make a code of conduct for all TV channels but we are yet to take a decision on it,” the minister said, adding that the government doesn’t want to interfere but “press should present responsible journalism.” Javadekar further said just like TV, there is no regulatory body for over-the-top (OTT) platforms and the government is receiving suggestions on how to regulate its content. OTT platforms such as Netflix, Hotstar, and others were recently brought under the ambit of the information and broadcasting ministry. “Neither there is any PCI nor any other body for OTT platforms which have very good content as well as very bad content. So, something needs to be done about it,” he said. “Discussions are going on and we are getting suggestions from a lot of people on what should be done to regulate the content on OTT platforms,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/free-press-soul-of-democracy-says-prakash-javadekar/story-XT0xDvsOTBOsAUClPxB5AN.html
16-11-2020||India||Covid-19 patient alleges molestation bid at Kerala hospital||The Malabar Medical College Hospital in Kerala’s Kozhikode on Monday suspended an employee after a Covid-19 patient complained that he tried to molest her on the pretext of taking her to the duty doctor. In her complaint the 38-year-old woman said the health worker, a class four employee, had earlier harassed her on the phone and she had warned him and informed hospital authorities about this. She alleged that on Sunday night he approached her and told her that the duty doctor wanted to meet her. She said he took her to the lift and then to a deserted floor where he tried to molest her. She said she somehow escaped and altered doctors and other officials. She said nobody took her seriously and she later informed her relatives and filed a police complaint over the phone. But hospital authorities maintained that they have not received any complaint in this regard and suspended an official pending inquiry. Police said the employee is under observation and he will be arrested after preliminary inquiry. The woman and her relatives accused the hospital staff of neglecting her earlier complaint that led to the midnight molestation attempt. Later Monday, workers of the Congress and BJP took out processions to the hospital seeking action against officials who ignored her complaint. Health minister K K Shailaja’s office said strict action will be taken against the accused after inquiry. When contacted the hospital superintendent refused to comment saying a police investigation was on. In September, a 20-year-old Covid-19 patient was allegedly raped by an ambulance driver in Pathanamthitta triggering widespread protest and indignation. The driver was arrested within hours of the crime. Police later found that the 29-year-old accused was involved in many criminal cases including a murder attempt. The case was fast-tracked for trial in a local court. After the bizarre incident came to light, health authorities had given strict instructions that every ambulance should have more than two employees and special care should be taken if patients are women. They also sought police help to verify antecedents of all drivers. But the latest incident allegedly involving a health worker has sent another shockwave in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-patient-alleges-molestation-bid-at-kerala-hospital/story-PnghHxO9vCdr0pafIMmsrO.html
16-11-2020||India||Helpline for women shuts in MP, activists cry foul as calls start being diverted||The much-hyped women’s helpline (1090) launched seven years ago in Madhya Pradesh for reporting crimes against women and to help women in trouble has stopped working and the calls are being diverted to police control room number 100. Now, police personnel are planning to develop the helpline 1090 as the Next and Final Response (NFR) number to track rape and other heinous crimes against women, a police official said. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had introduced the helpline after the Nirbhaya gang rape case in Delhi, in January 2013 so that woman in trouble could contact the police anytime. “The helpline was for prevention. After closing the women’s helpline 1090, which was being run by the crime against women cell, the number has been diverted to first response vehicle (FRV) Dial 100 last year that too doesn’t connect very often. Earlier, the helpline helped many women especially those who didn’t want to lodge an FIR of sexual harassment and stalking but now women don’t have any option to prevent crime,” said a police officer, who didn’t wish to be named. According to data from the Crime against Women Cell, from 2013 to 2018, as many as 1.20 lakh complaints were received on the women’s helpline and 40% were related to harassment over phone calls which the helpline resolved by warning only. Activists have expressed their unhappiness with the closure of the women’s helpline. Rolly Shivhare, a women’s rights activist, said, “The helpline was introduced to give a platform to women where they could share their problems related to harassment on the road, public transport and homes. The objective was to help women who were not willing to register a criminal case with the police due to society or family pressure. Even the staff had been trained to deal with such cases and the staff used to do counselling of the victims. The staff also used to warn the stalkers. Sometimes, if a woman used to give a missed call at 1090, the staff used to call back. But with discontinuation of the helpline, the whole system collapsed.” “Most of the women need help at the harassment level, not after the crime is committed. It’s good that police are planning to develop a feedback and tracking system and it will improve the policing and speed up the investigation. But it won’t prevent crime at the very first step like harassment and that often turn into heinous crimes like rape and murder. Police should work towards prevention,” said Prathna Mishra, another women’s rights activist. Additional director general of police (crime against women cell), Deepika Suri said, “We are not taking direct calls but we are taking feedback from victims of heinous cases to know their experiences at the police station. We asked whether they are satisfied with the police action or not.” “Soon the up-gradation of 1090 as the next and final response will be taken up to track every heinous case of crimes against women so that investigation can be completed within two months. The upgraded system will also ensure trauma counselling and legal support to the victim till conviction is obtained,” she added.MP director general of police (DGP) Vivek Johri said, “The helpline is working to take feedback of heinous cases but the number 1090 is still working. Due to some operator issue of the telecom company, there is a connectivity issue.”“The state government is sensitive about women’s issues and the chief minister himself asked us to track every heinous case of crime against women. The women’s helpline will be upgraded soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/helpline-for-women-shuts-in-mp-activists-cry-foul-as-calls-start-being-diverted/story-XfHm9XtoEpCMwQnSyu5kZJ.html
16-11-2020||India||I&B asks digital news platforms with FDI to provide ownership details||News websites and other digital platforms providing news and current affairs with a Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) up to 26% have been asked by the Union Information and Broadcasting Ministry to provide details of their ownership pattern in a month’s time.Entities which have FDIs over 26% will have to bring it down by October 2021.The I&B ministry on Monday issued a public notice asking entities involved in uploading or streaming of news and current affairs through digital media to comply with the directive.According to the notice, entities with foreign investments below 26% may furnish an intimation to the Ministry of Information & Broadcasting within one month from Monday, providing them with details of the company or entity and its shareholding pattern along with the names and addresses of its directors and shareholders.Also Read: WPI inflation at 8-month high standing at 1.48% in OctoberIt also sought the names and addresses of promoters and significant beneficial owners.A confirmation on compliance with pricing, documentation and reporting requirements under the FDI Policy, Foreign Exchange Management (Non-debt Instruments) Rules, 2019 and Foreign Exchange Management (Mode of Payment and Reporting of Non-debt Instruments) Regulations, 2019 also has to be provided.The ministry has also sought the companies’ Permanent Account Number (PAN) and the latest audited or unaudited profit and loss statement and balance sheet along with the auditor report.Entities, which, at present, have an equity structure with foreign investments exceeding 26% would also have to give similar details within one month from Monday, and “take necessary steps for bringing down the foreign investment to 26% by 15th October, 2021”, the ministry has said.Any entity which intends to bring fresh foreign investment in the country has to seek prior approval of the central government, through the Foreign Investment Facilitation Portal of the DPIIT.Every entity has to comply with the requirement of citizenship of Board of Directors and of the Chief Executive Officers (by whatever name called).The I&B ministry has also made clear that the entities are required to obtain security clearance for all foreign personnel likely to be deployed for more than 60 days in a year by way of appointment, contract or consultancy or any other capacity for functioning of the entity, prior to their deployment.For this purpose, the entities will apply to Ministry of Information & Broadcasting at least 60 days in advance and the proposed foreign personnel shall be deployed by the entity only after prior approval of this Ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-b-asks-digital-news-platforms-with-fdi-to-provide-ownership-details/story-TFgI4cBvCHIPLTQ92I9R5M.html
16-11-2020||India||Covid-19: Religious places in Maharashtra reopen after seven months||Religious places in Maharashtra re- opened on Monday, after remaining closed for seven months to check the spread of Covid-19 pandemic. The state government’s decision to re-open all the religious places was welcomed not only by the priests but also by the devotees.This comes after the Maharashtra government, on Saturday, issued standard operating procedure (SOP) with safety measures. As per the SOPs, offerings to the deity(or prasad), group singing, large gatherings and congregation at religious places was still prohibited. Entrances of religious places have to have thermal screening and sanitiser dispensers.The state government has also specified that individuals must maintain six feet distance with each other, wash hands frequently using soap or sanitiser,wear masks compulsorily and follow respiratory etiquette. Also read | No lockdown in Delhi even as Covid-19 cases go up, says Delhi health minister Satyendar JainThe state has called for staggered entry of visitors in places of worship, which must be decided based on the size of the structure, ventilation etc. by the trust/board running the place and the local authorities. Footwear must preferably be kept inside devotees’ own vehicles or in a separate slot for each person or family. Touching of idols, statues and holy books is not allowed and those over the age of 65 and below 10, those with comorbidities or pregnant women have been advised to stay at home.Adesh Bandekar, chairman, Shri Siddhivinayak temple trust, said, “With an aim to provide darshan to 1,000 devotees a day, the temple has laid down measures to be followed by each devotee. We have come up with a mobile application through which devotees can book a slot for their visit. Only when they get a QR code on their mobile phones will they be allowed to enter the temple.” The temple saw 500 devotees till 12pm and all its 1,000 slots were booked not only for Monday but also for Tuesday. Haji Ali Dargah had seen over 700 devotees till Monday noon. “It had been months since devotees offered their prayers to Haji Ali. Complying with all guidelines of the state, we expect the numbers to increase. We are allowing 15 people to enter the Dargah at a time,” said Mufti Mansoor Ziyaee, advisor and trust member, Haji Ali Dargah.At a Dadar gurudwara, 125 devotees had visited from 8am till Monday noon. “One person has been stationed at the entry to ensure social distancing and to check whether each person is wearing a mask...Langar has been postponed till next Sunday,” said Manmohan Singh Ratti, general secretary, Sri Guru Singh Sabha Bombay, Gurudwara, Dadar.Mahim Dargah trustee Suhail Y Khandwani said management officials had made all arrangements for the early morning namaz since 12am. “This 363-year-old dargah, which became the first religious shrine in India to get an International Organisation for Standardisation (ISO) certification in 2007, has its own SOP during this pandemic to ensure safety of devotees and the dargah. In addition, all government procedures are being followed,” said Khandwani. Shirdi Sai baba sansthan they too were following protocols and have restricted the daily count of devotees to 6,000. Following the state’s SOP, no devotee is allowed to wait and offer garlands and prasad.Fr Nobert D’souza from Holy Cross church in Kurla said, “We have opened the church for two hours in the morning and three hours in the evening. Monday morning saw around 100 devotees. Since our church is big and spacious, we are allowing 15 people at a time but with the help of a team we are ensuring that no one touches idols and lights candles.”Fr. Nigel Barrett, spokesman of the Archdiocese of Bombay, too said that they were allowing devotees only for five hours at least till Wednesday and they were not allowing community-based prayer. “We have made available only one entry and exit point in the church to ensure safety protocols are followed. A review meeting will take place on Wednesday to understand how our directives have been taken,” he said. At the International Society for Krishna Consciousness (ISKCON) temple, Juhu, approximately 1,200 devotees offered their prayers through the day on Monday. However, representatives explained they had a strict protocol in place both at the Juhu and Girgaum temples. “We have a separate entry and exit gate so people do not cross each other or mix. Only asymptomatic devotees are allowed to enter and we are checking them using temperature guns at the entry. We have markings on the floor which people are supposed to follow. It is a flowing crowd, and at no point is the queue allowed to stop inside the temple premises or during darshan,” said Parijata Devidasi, communications coordinator, ISCKON Juhu.Jehangir Patel, editor of the Parsi community magazine Parsiana said, “Our community is small and hence barring a few fire temples at places like Dadar and Tardeo that may have around 40 devotees in a day, we hardly see people going to the fire temples even during pre-Covid days. Hence, carrying out safety protocols and obeying the state governments rules would not be an issue for us.” Kersi Randeria, a trustee of the Bombay Parsi Panchayet (BPP) said, “We are happy with the state’s decision to open up religious places. While the number of Covid-19 cases and deaths are dropping in Mumbai, there is always a fear of a spike following the festive season, and the dangers that opening up more places may pose. There are 50 fire temples in Mumbai with three under the BPP trust while remaining are run by other trusts. We, as, a community are careful in following the law. Stringent measures in terms of social distancing, proper sanitisation, people have been asked to bring their own prayer books and not touch the ones within the temples, and limited hours for prayers. Overall, we are ensuring the safety of citizens but also reminding them that the pandemic is not over yet.”(With inputs from Faisal Malik)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/religious-places-in-maharashtra-reopen-after-seven-months/story-ZcqStGDHcWfEpYoRRX3rgO.html
16-11-2020||India||Media doing exceptional work in spreading awareness against Covid-19, is valuable stakeholder: PM||The media has been doing exceptional service by spreading awareness against Covid-19 and has acted as a valuable stakeholder in helping the government in its initiatives, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on the occasion of National Press Day on Monday. Be it positive criticism or highlighting success stories, the media has been continuously adding strength to India’s democratic ethos, the prime minister added in his written message on the day, being celebrated virtually with a webinar organised by the Press Council of India.   “From creating mass awareness about important issues to contributing to a behavioural change in society for the larger good, we have seen how the media as a valued stakeholder has furthered the efforts of the government and helped many initiatives like Swachh Bharat and water conservation grow into mass movements in the last few years,” he said. In his message, read out by PCI chairperson C K Prasad, Modi said he was heartened to learn that the Council was celebrating the day. The webinar being held on the theme ‘Role of media during the Covid-19 pandemic and its impact on the media’ with participants from several other countries also reflects the “enabling power of technology”, he said.  The prime minister added that at a time the world is up against an unprecedented crisis in the form of Covid-19, the nation’s fight against the pandemic is powered by the restraint and resolve of its 130 crore citizens.  “In such a scenario, the media has been continuously doing exceptional service by spreading awareness against the Covid pandemic.“In a post Covid world, India is marching ahead with its resolve to build a strong and ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’. Media is giving our resolve the shape of a big campaign and carrying forward the message of ‘Vocal for Local’,” he said.The prime minister said the world is rapidly changing and there is need to harness India’s entrepreneurial energy, intent and talent to expand this vision across all sectors.“With digital technology showing the way, Indian media’s endeavour towards ensuring a stronger presence globally will strengthen our vibrant media landscape,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/media-doing-exceptional-work-in-spreading-awareness-against-covid-19-is-valuable-stakeholder-pm/story-Zyt4aE4oxMtanPKs1mIz8N.html
16-11-2020||India||India shaped debate on need for transparency in connectivity projects: Jaishankar||In an indirect reference to China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Monday that India had shaped the debate on the need for transparency and respect for territorial integrity while implementing connectivity projects. Jaishankar described Pakistan as a “particularly egregious example of state sponsored cross-border terrorism” and called for a comprehensive global convention to counter the menace while speaking on the theme “Crisis and cooperation: Imperative in the times of pandemic” at the external affairs ministry’s Deccan Dialogue. He pointed to terrorism, pandemics and climate change as the “more existential aspects of globalisation” that will have to be factored into debates about international cooperation and the opening up of countries in future. Also Read: India concerned over situation in South China Sea that ‘erode trust’“On connectivity, we have actually shaped the debate on the merits of transparency, market viability, environmental friendliness and respect for territorial integrity. And in many parts of the world, ranging from Africa to the Caribbean to the South Pacific, we have helped to strengthen capabilities, offered training and spread best practices,” Jaishankar said without naming China. “These traits in India’s foreign policy outlook will only be stronger in the aftermath of the Covid pandemic,” he said. India is one of the main holdouts to BRI, which is facing growing criticism for pushing countries, including those in the neighbourhood, towards debt traps. India has also said Beijing’s connectivity initiative gives greater advantages to Chinese companies. “As regards terrorism, the era of ‘not my problem’ came to an end in 9/11 but it is still to produce a whole-hearted international collaborative effort,” Jaishankar said, adding India’s goal remains a comprehensive convention on terror. “We have in our immediate neighbourhood a particularly egregious example of state sponsored cross-border terrorism. The world is gradually becoming aware of the global nature of international terrorism. Our relentless efforts have kept it in the spotlight, bringing out related aspects like terror finance, radicalisation and cyber recruitment,” he said. India’s efforts have led to a larger awareness of terrorism’s different facets and the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) has “become a more important forum and black money is today firmly on the agenda of the G20”, he added. In the aftermath of the Covid-19 crisis, the immediate focus is on economic recovery and there is greater global awareness about more resilient supply chains. It is up to India to exploit this sentiment for additional growth as the crisis has brought out the importance of international cooperation, he said. While the world has become more multi-polar and rebalancing has gone beyond economic facets, an architecture with more variables requires better rules, and India must steer the debate towards greater international cooperation at a time when “current institutions are rigid and vested interests are really strong”, Jaishankar said. “In the interim, therefore, we have to look for practical solutions, including ad hoc groups of nations willing to cooperate on selected issues,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-shaped-debate-on-need-for-transparency-in-connectivity-projects-jaishankar/story-nZjv6xMTM6hJWXYycQvVsN.html
16-11-2020||India||Jaishankar lauds India’s Covid-19 response, says it should give people confidence in nation’s future||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Monday lauded India’s Covid-19 response and said that it should give people confidence in the country’s future.Speaking at the third edition of Deccan Dialogue, Jaishankar said, “A nation that had no preparedness for an enormous crisis, responded in a way that it should give us all confidence in our future.”He said during the onset of coronavirus pandemic, India was not able to provide enough PPEs and ventilators. Even N-95 masks were assembled in small quantities and testing kits were not produced in the country. “We should ask ourselves why not earlier, today not only (India) meets its national needs but helps beyond.”He also stated that during the ongoing pandemic situation, the social discipline in India stood out in comparison with many developed countries, which was the influence of the leadership and motivation.“If we had created more than 15,000 dedicated facilities, with 1.5 million isolation beds, if more than a million Indians are tested daily by 7,000 centres, if Aarogya Setu was devised to facilitate contract testing, then it speaks volumes about our inherent capabilities,” Jaishankar said.Jaishankar said the challenge now is to take this ability to rise to the moment of crisis and transform that to more routine sets of practices and procedures.“I do believe that the India which will come out of the Covid crisis, will do just that,” he added.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-lauds-india-s-covid-19-response-says-it-should-give-people-confidence-in-nation-s-future/story-F09vjOPkAWLgtFHRlYI4eP.html
16-11-2020||India||Govt sets Oct 2021 deadline for digital media to reduce foreign funding to 26%||Digital media companies that have more than 26% foreign investment will get one year to bring down the share, according to the ministry of information and broadcasting order issued on Monday that outlines the procedure for compliance with India’s foreign funding rules.According to the government order accessed by Hindustan Times, digital media groups which have foreign investment less than 26% should submit complete details about their shareholding pattern within one month. They will also have to provide details about the directors, promoters and shareholders.“Entities, which, at present, have an equity structure with foreign investment exceeding 26 per cent would give similar details... within one month and to take necessary steps for bringing down the foreign investment to 26% by 15 October 2021 and seek approval of the ministry of information and broadcasting,” Monday’s order issued by Amarendra Singh, under secretary at the ministry said.The government’s public notice comes a year after the Union Cabinet led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi spelt out a 26% foreign investment limit for entities engaged in uploading or streaming of news and current affairs via digital media.Any entity which intends to bring fresh foreign investment in the country has to seek prior approval of the central government through the foreign investment facilitation portal of DPIIT.The ministry has also stipulated that the companies will have to comply with “the requirements of citizenship of the Board of Directors and of the Chief Executive Officers (by whatever name called)”.The entities are required to obtain security clearance for all foreign personnel likely to be deployed for more than 60 days in a year by way of appointment, contract or consultancy or any other capacity for functioning of the entity prior to their deployment.For this purpose, the order said, the entities will apply to the ministry of information and broadcasting at least 60 days in advance and the proposed foreign personnel shall be deployed by the entity only after prior approval of this ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-sets-oct-2021-deadline-for-digital-media-to-reduce-foreign-funding-to-26/story-hICCc0owJVhRyHsbx5bo6K.html
16-11-2020||India||Gupkar alliance wants to continue with corruption in J&K, says RS Prasad, seeks explanation from Congress||Seeking explanation from Congress for extending support to Jammu and Kashmir’s Gupkar alliance, Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Monday questioned Farooq Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti’s recent ‘anti-national’ comments. “Farooq Abdullah has hoped for China’s support in bringing back Article 370 of the Constitution. Mehbooba Mufti has said there will be no tricolour in Jammu and Kashmir before the restoration of Article 370. I want to question them whether they don’t want national laws to be implemented in J&K. So that they can continue with the corruption.”National conference leader Farooq Abdullah’s recent comment of Article 370 has led to controversies as he has been quoted as saying, “I am hopeful that with their support, Article 370 will be restored in J&K.”Later, his party denied the allegations and accused the BJP of twisting his words. “Our President articulated people’s anger over the abrogation of Article 370 and 35-A by Parliament on August 5 last year as he has consistently done in recent months,” a spokesperson of the National Conference later clarified.Peoples Democratic Party chief Mehbooba Mufti, on the other hand, earlier said she would hold the tricolour and the flag of the erstwhile Jammu and Kashmir state together.Referring to these two comments which BJP termed as “seditious” and “anti-national”, Prasad said, “We have many questions to ask Congress as it is also with the alliance now. Congress has the liberty to tie up with any party it wants. We can’t question that. But we can question the agenda,” Prasad said.“There are two brutal truths of Jammu and Kashmir. India was partitioned, refugees from Pakistan came. Those who were left behind in Kashmir did not even get the rights to vote, buy land or houses. But those who left Kashmir behind and reached Punjab and beyond went on to become Prime Minister and deputy Prime Minister. Kashmir met a brutal fate,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gupkar-alliance-wants-to-continue-with-corruption-in-j-k-says-rs-prasad-seeks-answer-from-congress/story-b79s3P5hsZbGrLTenS0n6N.html
16-11-2020||India||‘BJP leaders grabbed my feet, started crying,’ RJD takes swipe at Nitish Kumar||Ahead of Nitish Kumar’s swearing-in on Monday afternoon as the chief minister for the fourth consecutive term, which the Rashtriya Janata Dal has decided to boycott, the RJD took a swipe at Nitish Kumar and the performance of his party JD(U) in the assembly election.“I did not want to become chief minister because my party came third and also I was tired. But, several BJP leaders grabbed my feet, started crying and pleading before me. I, being a soft-hearted, power-hungry mendicant, was moved. How could I annoy them,” the RJD said in a sarcastic tweet, taking a dig at Kumar’s reported remark at Sunday’s NDA meeting that he did not want to become CM but was insisted by the BJP to continue in the post. तीसरे दर्जे की पार्टी होने और थकने के कारण मैं मुख्यमंत्री नहीं बनना चाहता था लेकिन BJP के कई वरिष्ठ नेताओं ने मेरे पैर पकड़ लिए,रोने लगे,गिड़गिड़ाने लगे। मैं ठहरा कोमल हृदय का कुर्सीवादी अंतर्यामी भिक्षुक, उन लोगों के आग्रह ने मेरे हृदय को पिघला दिया। मैं उन्हें नाराज कैसे करता?In the election results for 243 assembly seats announced on November 10, the BJP emerged as the largest party within the ruling coalition with 74 seats, followed by JD-U (43) and Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) and Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM) four each. The RJD stands as the single largest party in Bihar with 75 seats.The BJP had announced before the polls that Kumar will remain chief minister irrespective of which NDA constituent wins the maximum number of seats.Alleging fraud in the election, which gave the mandate to NDA, the RJD said it will boycott the oath-taking ceremony as it claimed that the mandate was against the NDA.“The RJD boycotts oath-taking ceremony of this puppet government. The mandate is for a change, and against the (ruling) NDA. The peoples verdict has been changed by the rulers order,” the RJD alleged in a tweet.“Ask the unemployed, the farmer, the contract worker and teacher as to what they are going through. People are angry with NDAs fraud. We are public representatives and we stand with people,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitish-kumar-swearing-in-bjp-leaders-grabbed-my-feet-started-crying-rjd-takes-swipe-at-nitish-kumar/story-vPuu9TP8wQX7oNMG9a7KQM.html
16-11-2020||India||PM Modi unveils ‘Statue of Peace’ to mark 151st birth anniversary of Jainacharya Vijay Vallabh||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday unveiled the ‘Statue of Peace’ in Rajasthan’s Pali to mark the 151st Jayanti celebrations of Jainacharya Shree Vijay Vallabh Surishwer Ji Maharaj, via video conferencing.The 151-inch tall statue has been made from Ashtadhatu- 8 metals, with Copper being the major constituent, and is being installed at Vijay Vallabh Sadhana Kendra, Jetpura, in Pali, Rajasthan.After inaugurating the statue, the Prime Minister said: “Vijay Nityanand Surishwer Ji Maharaj used to say that the land of Gujarat gave us two Vallabh. In the political field, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and in spiritual field Jainacharya Shree Vijay Vallabh Surishwer Ji Maharaj... Both dedicated their lives for India’s unity and brotherhood. I am fortunate that the country gave me the opportunity to inaugurate the world’s highest ‘Statue of Unity’ by Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. And today I am getting the privilege of unveiling the ‘Statue of Peace’ by Jainacharya Vijay Vallabh ji.”“India has been an example of humanity, the path of peace, non-violence and fraternity for the whole world. The world looks forward to India,” he said.Shree Vijay Vallabh Surishwer Ji Maharaj (1870-1954) led an austere life as a Jain Saint working selflessly and dedicatedly to spread the message of Lord Mahavira.He also worked relentlessly for the welfare of masses, the spread of education, eradication of social evils, wrote inspiring literature (poetry, essays, devotional hymns and Stavans) and gave active support to the freedom movement and the cause of Swadeshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-unveils-statue-of-peace-to-mark-151st-birth-anniversary-of-jainacharya-vijay-vallabh/story-dWszKf0CYCpA9iTwJjqKrM.html
16-11-2020||India||Srinagar-Jammu highway reopens as snowfall, rains abate for now, few vehicles ply||The Srinagar-Jammu National Highway was closed for traffic after fresh snowfall and rain in parts of Jammu and Kashmir on Monday morning. Later in the day, however, the highway was reopened for traffic after the snowfall stopped, according to the authorities. Traffic officials said that the movement of traffic was stopped on Monday morning but post noon a few vehicles were plying. The authorities had on Sunday said that if weather permits small vehicles would be allowed to ply from Jammu to Srinagar.“From 9 am, the road was closed as the areas around the tunnel and Banihal received snowfall,” an official of the traffic control room said. The Jawahar Tunnel and Banihal fall to the south of Kashmir and connect it to Jammu division which further connects the region to the rest of the country. The Mughal road in South Kashmir and the Leh-Kargil road are already blocked due to heavy snow. The light snowfall and rains continued during the night and early on Monday in many parts of the northern valley for the third consecutive day as well even as the weather office has predicted a slight improvement from Monday afternoon. The precipitation in the region followed a western disturbance, with winds blowing in from the Mediterranean that hit Jammu and Kashmir on Friday after months of dry weather. Residents of North Kashmir and capital Srinagar said that rains continued throughout the night in the plains while the higher reaches got light snowfall. The morning update by the meteorological centre of Srinagar said that the snow depth in the ski resort of Gulmarg in North Kashmir is 19 cm while it is 1.5 cm in Banihal to the south of the valley in Jammu division. “In the northern Kupwara district, there is snow accumulation of 2 to 3.5 feet on the three high altitude passes to border areas of Karnah, Keran and Machil. All the three roads are closed and machinery will be deployed as soon as the weather improves,” Deputy Director MeT Mukhtar Ahmad said quoting the Kupwara administration. The minimum (night) temperatures in the Kashmir valley was the lowest in Gulmarg at minus 3 degree Celsius while it was minus 0.2 in Kupwara. Capital Srinagar recorded a minimum of 2.8 degrees Celsius during the night while it was 7.7 degrees on Sunday. Ahmad said that the weather is expected to improve from Monday. “The sun will also come out on Monday afternoon. There is a prediction of another wet spell on November 18,” he said.As against the monsoon in the rest of the country, Kashmir mostly owes its precipitation to winds blowing from the Mediterranean Sea which is locally called ‘Western Disturbance’.The UT has been witnessing unusually dry weather this year causing immense problems in the availability of water for irrigation as well as for drinking.On November 4, there was very light snowfall in the higher reaches of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh but there was no precipitation for the plains.The summer this year was abnormally dry.“The year saw abnormally dry weather in Jammu and Kashmir. The precipitation due to Western Disturbance was almost zero while the rainfall due to monsoon from July 1 to October 1 was 35 percent less than normal,” said Mohammad Hussain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/srinagar-jammu-highway-reopens-as-snowfall-rains-abate-for-now-few-vehicles-ply/story-rtRoUXLRwdbEwxACZPZZXL.html
16-11-2020||India||Media persons played important role in educating people, mitigating impact of Covid-19: Kovind||Media persons have been among frontline corona warriors who played an important role in educating people and mitigating the impact of the coronavirus pandemic, President Ram Nath Kovind said on Monday.In his written message on the occasion of the National Press Day, the president also appreciated the Press Council of India (PCI), which regulates the print media, for safeguarding the independence of the press.“I am happy to learn that the Press Council of India is celebrating National Press Day on November 16 on the theme ‘Role of Media during Covid-19 and its Impact on the Media’.“Rendering its service for nearly 55 years, PCI has been the watchdog safeguarding the independence of the press while trying to ensure quality journalism. Its role is important in the working of our democracy,” Kovind said.The president said the theme of this year’s National Press Day celebration deals with the most serious crisis facing the world and India.“In dealing with the issues concerning Covid -9, media has played a very important role in educating people and thereby it has helped in mitigating the impact of the pandemic.“Media persons have been among the frontline corona warriors. Through PCI, I convey my appreciation to such media persons,” Kovind said.India has so far recorded 88,45,127 Covid-19 cases, while 1,30,070 people have succumbed to the disease, according to the Union health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/media-persons-played-important-role-in-educating-people-mitigating-impact-of-covid-19-kovind/story-xGzRmWn8j9ChQE7tG0rofL.html
16-11-2020||India||Bihar: RJD to boycott NDA’s oath-taking ceremony today||The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), the main opposition in Bihar and the spearhead of the Grand Alliance (GA), or the Mahagathbandhan (MGB), has decided to boycott the oath-taking ceremony of the new National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government, led by chief minister and Janata Dal (United) president Nitish Kumar. The oath-taking ceremony of the NDA government will be held at Raj Bhawan at 4.30 pm on Monday. The programme will be attended by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president JP Nadda, Union Minister for Home Affairs Amit Shah and the party’s national general secretary (organisation) BL Santhosh. The RJD said the people’s mandate was against the NDA and branded it a “puppet government”. The party tweeted that the mandate for change in the recently held three-phase Bihar assembly polls was against the NDA. Also read | Tarkishore Prasad, frontrunner in race for Bihar deputy CM, is part of BJP’s Bengal plan. Here’s how“The RJD is boycotting the swearing-in ceremony of the ‘puppet’ government. The people’s mandate has been changed to the rule of the government. Ask the unemployed, farmers, students, youth, contractual teachers and staff what they are going through. The public is angry with the irregularities in the election results and manipulation by the NDA. The RJD, as public representative, stands with the people (of Bihar),” the tweet alleged. The reference to the “puppet government” is seen as an indirect attack on Bihar CM Nitish Kumar to imply how the JD(U) president has been propped up by the BJP for the top job. The criticisms come amid the JD (U)’s poor show in the Bihar polls, as it won only 43 seats in the 243-member legislative assembly. The BJP, which was once a junior ally to the JD (U) in the NDA, emerged as the second single-largest party in the state with 74 seats and only next to the main rival, the RJD, which bagged 75 seats. The RJD’s tweet implied that the BJP could play a larger role in state politics on the back of its numerically superior strength in the state assembly. RJD scion Tejashwi Prasad Yadav (31), who was the GA’s CM face in the assembly polls, her mother and former state CM Rabri Devi (61), and other party leaders have decided to boycott the swearing- in ceremony.“No RJD leader will attend the swearing-in ceremony,” said a close aide of Tejashwi.Other GA allies such as the Congress and three Left parties will also follow suit. The RJD and its allies have alleged widespread irregularities in the counting process, which concluded in the early hours on November 11. The delay was because the counting was held amid the spectre of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. The RJD is planning to move court after over two dozen of its candidates had lost the election by a slender margin because of “irregularities in the counting process”.The RJD and its ally, the Communist Party of India (Marxist–Leninist) Liberation, which won 12 seats, have announced that they would continue to raise burning issues that confront the state such as unemployment, migration, poverty and corruption in a bid to corner the Kumar-led NDA government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-rjd-to-boycott-oath-taking-ceremony-of-nda-s-puppet-government/story-jZOutaLWA7jUKYzJL8zJ8O.html
16-11-2020||India||25-year-old killed, several injured in Kanpur clash||A 25-year-old youth was killed and several injured during a clash between two communities that started over water being splashed on one of them and soon snowballed into stone pelting, police said on Monday.Police personnel, including the Provincial Armed Constabulary, have been deployed in large numbers to keep tabs on the simmering tension at Chakeri locality after the incident late Sunday evening. Four people have been arrested and efforts are on to ascertain the identities of the key accused, said Raj Kumar Agarwal, Superintendent of Police (East).Recapping the events of the evening, he said Pintu Nishad, 25, and his friend Sandeep left their homes in Wajidpur area and accidentally stepped on a water pouch lying on the road. The water splashed on Amaan, a resident from the same area who was passing through, sparking a clash.Hearing about the altercation, dozens of other locals reached the spot and pelted stones at each other, injuring Nishad and several others, he said..The injured were taken to the Lala Lajpat Rai (LLR) hospital where Nishad was declared brought dead, Agarwal added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/25-year-old-killed-several-injured-in-kanpur-clash/story-rzfLm8x5bVJ25xnmgDOuiJ.html
16-11-2020||India||Congress included in PAGD’s 2nd list of candidates for J&K DDC polls||People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) has released the second list of candidates for district development council (DDC) polls in Jammu and Kashmir on Monday, which includes tickets for three Congress candidates from north and south Kashmir.Earlier, PAGD had released the names of 27 candidates for the first phase of DDC polls and most of them were from the National Conference (NC) which had caused some bickering, mostly in the lower rung leadership of other parties that are part of the alliance.In the second list of 27 candidates, Congress has been given three seats; the PDP and Peoples’ Conference candidates got eight and five seats respectively; Awami National Conference (ANC) candidate will contest from one seat while J&K Peoples’ Movement candidates will contest from two seats of Srinagar. The National Conference candidates have also been allocated eight seats. The list was announced after a series of deliberations held between the leaders of the PAGD. Earlier, some leaders had shown strong resentment over the seat sharing arrangement for the DDC polls for the parties in the PAGD.The differences led to PDP patron Muzaffar Beigh resigning from the party he helped form since his wife Safeena Beigh was not given a ticket from Sangrama in North Kashmir.Also Read: PDP founder quits over DDC poll ticket, Mehbooba urges focus on ‘bigger’ causeThe alliance had nominated PAGD chairman Farooq Abdullah to choose the candidates for the polls to be held in phases beginning November 28 and ending December 24.Despite the murmurs of dissent, PDP president Mehbooba Mufti and NC president Farooq Abdullah have already ruled out any differences in PAGD over ticket distribution.Also Read: DDC polls: Ex-minister, ex-MLA among BJP’s second list of candidates“PAGD was formed solely to safeguard the identity of people of J&K, that’s been under constant attack since Aug 2019. To assume it was created for petty electoral gains or to further party interests is erroneous. We have a bigger cause to fight for than bicker over DDC elections,” tweeted Mehbooba Mufti.Besides the National Conference and the PDP, the Peoples’ Conference, the CPI (M), Awami National Conference and Peoples Movement are part of the PAGD. The National Conference and the PDP had stayed away from the panchayat polls in 2018. Peoples Conference however, participated in the elections. Congress has also joined the alliance and leaders of the party have been attending its meetings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-included-in-pagd-s-2nd-list-of-candidates-for-j-k-ddc-polls/story-rvndgcdauS9evK996aCJnM.html
16-11-2020||India||RJD to boycott swearing-in ceremony of Nitish Kumar as Bihar CM||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav will not attend the oath-taking ceremony of Bihar chief minister-designate Nitish Kumar today, the party announced. It has decided to boycott the swearing-in ceremony saying the mandate in the Bihar Assembly election is against the National Democratic Alliance (NDA).Also Read | Nitish Kumar’s new Cabinet: Blend of young, old faces likely“The RJD boycotts swearing-in ceremony. The mandate for change is against the NDA. The mandate was replaced with ‘Government Order’. Ask the unemployed, farmers, contract workers and teachers of Bihar what is going on with them. The public is agitated by the fraud of the NDA. We are the people’s representative and stand with the public,” the party said in a tweet on Monday.Kumar, meanwhile, will take oath as the chief minister of Bihar for the fourth consecutive term in Patna at a ceremony today. It will be held at around 4:30 pm.In a meeting held on Sunday morning, National Democratic Alliance (NDA) leaders had chosen Nitish Kumar as the leader of the alliance’s legislature party.In the recently held assembly election, the NDA secured a 125-seat majority in the 243-seat Assembly. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), who fought the election along with the Janata Dal (United), won 74 seats. The JD(U) secured 43 seats while eight were won by two other NDA constituents. The RJD, on the other hand, emerged as the single-largest party with 75 seats while the Congress only won 19 of the 70 seats it had contested on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rjd-to-boycott-swearing-in-ceremony-of-nitish-kumar-as-bihar-cm/story-RGf2rO1P8oPOBmHG1yiWgP.html
16-11-2020||India||‘Modi govt strongly opposes those who throttle freedom of press’, tweets Amit Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah on Monday tweeted his greetings on National Press Day and hailed media’s role during the coronavirus (Covid-19) crisis. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government is “committed” towards freedom of the Press, he said on Twitter, adding that it strongly opposes those who try to throttle the media. Also Read: Unregulated digital media can spark hate, terror: Govt to SC“Greetings on #NationalPressDay. Our media fraternity is working tirelessly towards strengthening the foundations of our great nation. Modi govt is committed towards the freedom of Press and strongly oppose those who throttle it. I applaud Media’s remarkable role during Covid-19,” he tweeted.The National Press Day is observed annually on November 16 to mark the day when the Press Council of India (PCI) was instituted in 1966. The day is the symbol of a free and responsible press in India and the PCI is a moral watchdog that ensures that journalists in the country remain unbiased and not driven by external factors.Also Read: ‘Desist from regulating electronic media’: Centre urges Supreme Court Vice president Venkaiah Naidu also tweeted his wishes on the occasion and pointed out that media played an important role in strengthening democracy.“My Greetings to all the media professionals on National Press Day. Media plays a key role in strengthening democracy and in informing & empowering the citizens. I laud the media persons for keeping the people informed continuously during the pandemic,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-govt-strongly-opposes-those-who-throttle-freedom-of-press-tweets-amit-shah/story-PzOfAdhSYigQeN9FAGEKxJ.html
16-11-2020||India||Australia races to contain Adelaide virus outbreak||A sudden coronavirus cluster emerged in the Australian city of Adelaide on Monday after seven months without a significant outbreak there, with the virus again escaping from the country’s hotel quarantine system. South Australia state reported four cases had been detected in the city on Sunday, before the cluster grew sharply overnight to 17 people Monday -- the largest there since April.All but two of the 17 were members of the same large family, including one who was working in a hotel used to quarantine travellers returning from overseas. Fearful of case numbers spiralling, authorities snapped back a swathe of coronavirus restrictions and suspended international flights into Adelaide.“No effort will be spared to slow and stop the spread of the powerful cluster,” South Australia state Premier Steven Marshall told a press conference. Officials ordered hundreds of people to isolate, while closing linked schools and businesses.“The next 24 hours will be critical but we are not going to wait for the situation to deteriorate,” Marshall added.Read more | Australian high commissioner meets RSS chief Bhagwat, discusses Covid-19 reliefSouth Australia residents are being urged to wear masks, work from home and avoid non-essential travel. The Adelaide cases also prompted other states to immediately impose new restrictions on anyone travelling from South Australia. The country’s internal borders had been gradually reopening and were due to be almost fully reopened by Christmas. South Australia last detected a Covid-19 cluster outside border quarantine in August, when health authorities swiftly prevented the small handful of cases from spreading using similar measures.But there are fears the latest outbreak has the potential to infect high-risk populations, with a prison guard and aged-care workers reportedly among those testing positive. It comes just as Australians were breathing a collective sigh of relief after squashing a second-wave outbreak in Melbourne that originated from security bungles at hotel quarantine. Melbourne, which recorded thousands of cases and hundreds of deaths in recent months, has now gone more than two weeks without a single new case.Overall, Australia has been relatively successful in containing the virus, with just over 27,700 cases and 907 deaths recorded since the pandemic began.Watch: SpaceX, NASA launches first operational astronaut mission to space||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/australia-races-to-contain-adelaide-virus-outbreak/story-Xtnja3rsUn1ea7CjTqQh9L.html
16-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: After India, Afghanistan rejects Pakistan’s so-called terror dossier and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.After India, Afghanistan rejects Pakistan’s so-called terror dossierAfghanistan has joined India in dismissing Pakistan’s so-called dossier on external forces sponsoring terrorism, with Kabul saying Islamabad should allow a UN-appointed delegation to verify the claims.The Afghan foreign ministry said Pakistan should raise such issues through existing mechanisms such as the Afghanistan-Pakistan Action Plan for Peace and Solidarity (APAPPS). Read MoreIndia will miss the bus to economic development by not joining RCEP: Chinese state mediaIndia has committed a “strategic blunder” and “missed the bus” to long-term growth, Chinese state media has said about New Delhi’s decision not to join the China-led 15-country Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP), signed on Sunday at an online ceremony hosted by this year’s ASEAN chair, Vietnam. Read More‘3rd wave of Covid-19 has passed its peak in Delhi,’ says health minister Satyendar JainDelhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Monday said that coronavirus (Covid-19) infection peak has passed in the national Capital and that there will be no reimposition of lockdown in Delhi. He also reiterated the importance of wearing masks in preventing the spread of the disease. Read MoreCovid-19: Home secy to chair meeting to rework Delhi’s containment strategy todayHome secretary Ajay Bhalla will chair a crucial meeting with union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan and the Delhi chief secretary on Monday to rework the containment strategy of Delhi, a day after home minister Amit Shah reviewed the Covid-19 situation in the national capital.Delhi, which is facing a huge surge in Covid-19 cases every day, is going through its worst phase of the pandemic so far, and its Covid-19 management strategy is facing intense scrutiny. Read More‘He has a big say in Indian cricket’: Greg Chappell’s high-praise for India starFormer Australia batsman Greg Chappell, who also served as the head coach of India from 2005-07, said current Indian skipper Virat Kohli is ‘one of the most influential players in world cricket’ who is not afraid to express his opinions. “I think he’s certainly one of the best players and one of the most influential players in world cricket at the moment,” Chappel told ‘Sydney Morning Herald’ according to PTI. Read MoreRenault teases new sub-compact SUV for India, likely to be launched soonRenault is gearing up to bring in new models in India soon. The French carmaker has teased a glimpse of its new upcoming sub-compact SUV for the Indian market, likely to be called Kiger, on social media today. Renault had earlier hinted at the launch of a new sub-compact SUV in India early next year. However, it seems the unveiling of the SUV will take place some time later this year, before the official launch. Read MoreThe Crown: Emma Corrin, Josh O’Connor discovered unknown facts about Charles and DianaActors Emma Corrin and Josh O’Connor spoke to Hindustan Times about playing Prince Charles and Princess Diana in the fourth season of Netflix’s The Crown, what they discovered about their characters, and how they supported each other on set. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-after-india-afghanistan-rejects-pakistan-s-so-called-terror-dossier-and-all-the-latest-news/story-35B0w3DCNlfmON6hla5h6O.html
16-11-2020||India||SC issues notice to UP govt on plea against arrest of Kerala journalist on way to Hathras||The Supreme Court on Monday issued notice to Uttar Pradesh government and the state police seeking their response on a petition filed by Kerala Union of Working Journalists, challenging the detention of Siddique Kappan. The Kerala journalist was arrested by Mathura Police last month while he was on his way to cover the Hathras gang-rape incident. A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde posted the matter for hearing on Friday.Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, who appeared for the Union, sought interim bail for the journalist as he has been in jail since October 4.The bench said that it would first wish to hear the state and indicated that it may direct the matter to be sent to Allahabad high court.“We are trying to discourage Article 32 petitions (power of Supreme Court to provide relief for violation of fundamental rights). There is a spate of Article 32 petitions,” the bench, also comprising Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said. Sibal pointed out that this was the case of journalist under detention and similar petitions have been entertained in the past. The bench added, “We are not commenting on the merits of the case. We are aware of similar orders in the past and the vast powers that this Court possesses under Article 32. We want to discourage this trend.”Kappan is charged under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) for his alleged links with banned outfit Popular Front of India (PFI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-issues-notice-to-up-govt-on-petition-challenging-detention-of-journalist-siddique-kappan/story-98dzIHLO7TpRgBikcFpyQM.html
16-11-2020||India||After India, Afghanistan rejects Pakistan’s so-called terror dossier||Afghanistan has joined India in dismissing Pakistan’s so-called dossier on external forces sponsoring terrorism, with Kabul saying Islamabad should allow a UN-appointed delegation to verify the claims. The Afghan foreign ministry said Pakistan should raise such issues through existing mechanisms such as the Afghanistan-Pakistan Action Plan for Peace and Solidarity (APAPPS) ahead of Prime Minister Imran Khan’s visit to Kabul this week. India had rubbished Pakistan’s dossier on Indian sponsorship of terrorism on Sunday, saying it was a propaganda exercise that will find few takers as the world community is aware of Islamabad’s role in supporting terror. Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi and chief military spokesman Maj Gen Babar Iftikhar had released the dossier on Saturday along with they said were intelligence intercepts that purportedly showed the involvement of Indian intelligence operatives in acts of terrorism. They also claimed Afghan territory was being used for terror attacks against Pakistan. Also Read: ‘No credibility’, India trashes Pak’s claims of Delhi sponsoring terrorismThe Afghan foreign ministry said it “strongly rejects the allegations of the spokesman of the Pakistani Army claiming the use of Afghan territory against that country”. Afghanistan, as a major victim of terrorism, is committed to a “policy of combating all forms of terrorism, without discrimination, around the world and will never allow Afghan territory to be used for destructive activities against other countries”, the ministry said. The Afghan foreign ministry also said “there is absolutely no evidence that Malik (Feraydoon Khan) Mohmand, one of the tribal leaders of Nangarhar province, was involved in the terrorist attacks on the Peshawar Agricultural University”. Afghanistan reiterated its call for appointment of an international delegation by the UN Security Council in line with resolutions of the General Assembly and the Security Council in “connection with the fight against terrorism to clarify the facts about the terrorist incidents in Afghanistan and its causes and examine the claims” of the Pakistan government. Noting that Afghanistan is preparing for a visit by the Pakistan prime minister this week, the foreign ministry said it was expected “that Pakistan would raise issues of bilateral interest and debate through existing bilateral cooperation mechanisms” including APAPPS. The Afghan foreign ministry also took a tacit swipe at Pakistan over the issue of terrorists operating from Pakistani soil. It said the government and people of Afghanistan, as “the greatest victims of terrorism, will continue to coordinate global efforts to jointly fight terrorism, its sources of finance and equipment, their safe havens in the region”. The Afghan government’s most important foreign policy priority is that Afghanistan should play the role of a centre of regional and international cooperation, especially in the fight against terror, and a favourable role in the security and economic prosperity of the region, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-india-afghanistan-rejects-pakistan-s-so-called-terror-dossier/story-PBJLnyKxKfbJGHymRIY4cK.html
16-11-2020||India||Covid-19: 75 paramilitary doctors, 350 paramedics head to Delhi after Amit Shah’s meeting||Almost 75 additional doctors and around 350 paramedics are heading to Delhi after Union Home Minister Amit Shah directed paramilitary forces to arrange more doctors for Delhi to control the Covid-19 situation. Sources in Union Home Ministry claimed that around 75 doctors will be in Delhi from different parts of the country. These doctors will be in Delhi in the next few days.The move comes a day after a Covid-19 review meeting held at the Home Ministry.These doctors belong to various paramilitary forces like Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), Assam Rifles, Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and others.Also Read | ‘3rd wave of Covid-19 has passed its peak in Delhi,’ says health minister Satyendar JainDifferent paramilitary forces sent out an urgent message last night asking them to arrange more medical professionals as per directives.Official communication has also been marked to various units asking them to relieve extra doctors who will be deployed to manage the Covid-19 situation in Delhi, sources claimed.A top government official involved in the process of coordination to arrange doctors as per the decision of Union Home Minister Amit Shah, said “Total 75 doctors will be here in the next few days. Forces have already processed and suggested names and soon they will be in Delhi and deployed at different locations or hospitals in the national capital. Some may also be deployed at 10,000 bedded Sardar Patel Covid hospital in Delhi’s Chhatarpur,” the senior official claimed.Around 350 additional paramedics will also reach Delhi from various places like Jalandhar, Shimla, Lucknow, states of North-east and other parts.Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) which is taking care of the world’s largest Covid-19 hospital in Chhatarpur, Delhi will be sending almost 15 doctors and 70 paramedics. Similarly, SSB also sending around 12 doctors along with 70 paramedics.Sources also claimed almost a dozen doctors will be coming to Delhi from different paramilitary forces.Sources said that forces will try to avoid bringing in doctors from tense areas like Kashmir, Ladakh and others considering the current situation. Also, less number of doctors will be asked to be redeployed from the Red zone, sources claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-75-paramilitary-doctors-350-paramedics-head-to-delhi-after-amit-shah-s-meeting/story-h0ojco0crtagQYK12FpP6I.html
16-11-2020||India||Supreme Court hears plea seeking notice to Andhra CM for remarks against apex court judge||The Supreme Court on Monday took up petitions filed by two advocates - GS Mani and Sunil Kumar Singh - seeking order against Andhra Pradesh chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy for making scandalous allegations against Justice NV Ramana, senior siting judge of the apex court. The case was to be heard by a three-judge bench headed by Justice UU Lalit. But he informed the petitioner lawyers that would be appropriate for another bench to hear the case. “As a lawyer I had represented these parties in litigation. Let the Registry be directed to list the petition before CJI for passing appropriate orders for listing the matter before a bench of which Justice Lalit is not a member,” Justice Lalit said.The petitioners had approached the top court against the action of Andhra chief minister for writing a letter to CJI on October 6 raising allegations against Justice Ramana of trying to interfere with criminal trials pending against him in a special court in Telangana.On October 10, Reddy’s principal advisor conducted a press conference revealing in public all contents of the letter. The petitioners claimed that the chief minister had misused his office to make politically motivated and scandalous charges against the judiciary that were baseless. Another petition by Singh sought a direction that showcause notice be issued to Reddy for his actions and sought a restraint against any further press conference against judges. The petitions were soon filed after the October 10 press conference and got listed today for the first time on Monday.Meanwhile, Attorney General KK Venugopal had recently refused to grant consent for initiating contempt against Jagan Reddy and his advisor Ajeya Kallam as the matter is pending consideration with CJI. Venugopal, however, held the conduct of the duo to be contumacious and called the timing of the letter “suspect” as it followed a direction passed by Justice Ramana on September 16 this year in a PIL proceeding directing fast-tracking of all criminal trials against sitting and former legislators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-hears-plea-seeking-notice-to-andhra-cm-for-remarks-against-apex-court-judge/story-hcCFUuwEpqQjzlRLOTx4OK.html
16-11-2020||India||Nitish Kumar’s new Cabinet: Blend of young, old faces likely||The fate of Nitish Kumar, the chief of the ruling Janata Dal (United), has been settled, as he takes oath to be Bihar’s chief minister for the seventh time. Now, the suspense revolves around his new council of ministers. Several names are doing the rounds from JD (U)’s senior ally the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the two smaller partners – former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi’s Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular), and Bollywood set designer Mukesh Sahani’s Vikassheel Insaan Party.Speculations are rife that up to 14 newly elected lawmakers from the JD (U) and the BJP could take oath and one each from HAM (S) and VIP on Monday evening. Some new faces are also likely to be inducted in the ministry. Shreyasi Singh, a national-level shooting champion, who is elected as a BJP member of the Bihar legislative assembly (MLA) from the Jamui seat, and the youngest daughter of late JD (U) leader Digvijay Singh, is one of the probable names being considered for a ministerial berth. Singh is likely to be accommodated by the BJP. Sunil Kumar, a former director-general of police (DGP), who had won from the Bhore assembly seat in Gopalganj district, is a likely contender from the JD (U)’s quota.The BJP may bag the key post of Speaker in the new 243-member Bihar legislative assembly because of the NDA’s wafer-thin majority. It will also give the BJP a ruse to protect the smaller parties such as the HAM (S) and the VIP, which are likely to be vulnerable due to alleged horse-trading by the main opposition, the Grand Alliance, or the Mahagathbandhan (MGB), comprising the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), the Congress and the Left parties. Former minister Nand Kishore Yadav and ex-deputy Speaker Amarendra Pratap Singh are the probable names doing the rounds for the Speaker’s post.Union Minister for Home Affairs Amit Shah is likely to attend the oath-taking ceremony of the NDA government at Raj Bhawan at 4.30pm on Monday. “BJP national president JP Nadda, Shah and the party’s national general secretary (organisation) BL Santhosh will attend the oath-taking ceremony on Monday,” said Sanjay Mayunkh, the party’s national spokesperson. BJP’s Tarkishore Prasad is seen as the front-runner in the race to become deputy to CM Kumar, as his predecessor Sushil Kumar Modi was pencilled in for a bigger role in the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led NDA at the Centre.“I will be taking the oath on Monday. In all likelihood, I will be working as deputy CM in the new government,” Prasad told media persons on Monday morning.Renu Kumari, a four-time MLA from Bettiah in West Champaran district, may also be elevated as deputy CM and is likely to bag a key portfolio in the new Cabinet. Prasad, a BJP MLA from Katihar in the Seemanchal region, became a front-runner in the deputy CM’s race on Sunday after Modi was drafted for a role in the Central government. Later, Modi tweeted that he had been fortunate to be richly rewarded by the BJP and its ideological mentor, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), in his 40-year political life. He said he would like to serve the party as a worker and did not hanker after any post.The new cabinet is likely to be expanded in the coming months. The NDA has worked out a formula for the allocation of ministerial berths such as two posts for every seven assembly seats won by each ally. The JD (U), which has 43 MLAs to its kitty, will get a maximum of 14 ministerial berths following the application of that formula. The ceiling for the BJP, which has 74 legislators in its ranks, is 20. Both HAM (S) and VIP will have to settle for one ministerial berth each.Bijendra Prasad Yadav (former energy minister), Vijay Kumar Chaudhary (former Speaker), Shravan Kumar (former rural development minister), Ashok Choudhary (former building construction minister) are tipped to become a part of the new cabinet from the JD(U)’s quota. The BJP may allocate portfolios to Prem Kumar (former agriculture minister) and Vijay Kumar Sinha (former labour minister). The names of two former ministers from the BJP, Vinod Narayan Jha and Nitish Mishra, are also doing the rounds.VIP’s Sahni could be sworn in as minister in the new Bihar cabinet. Santosh Suman , the son of HAM(S) chief and ex-Bihar CM Manjhi, may also become a minister. Sahni had contested from the Simri-Bakhtiarpur assembly in Saharsa district, but lost the election. He may be inducted into the cabinet as a member of the Bihar legislative council (MLC) and could be accommodated from the Governor’s quota. “We hope the new Cabinet will be representative of all sections of Bihar’s society,” said Ashok Kumar Sinha, spokesperson of the state’s BJP unit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitish-kumar-s-new-cabinet-blend-of-young-old-faces-likely/story-1o52p3OSWYppWy4aToHnNN.html
16-11-2020||India||Ahead of assembly polls, tasks cut out for BJP’s national team, friction in Kerala, Bengal||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s newly appointed state in-charges, appointed by party president JP Nadda have their task cut out for them ahead of the 2021 assembly polls in five states. The functionaries have the onerous task of building cohesion in at least two of the state units-- West Bengal and Kerala-- that are rife with factionalism and friction. The others states that will pick new assemblies are Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Assam. In Kerala and West Bengal where the party has been planning its electoral strategy for months; intra-party differences are threatening to throw a spanner in the works. Senior party functionaries who spoke on condition of anonymity said the national leadership has had to step in on several occasions to quell in-fighting, and with local body elections in Kerala a month away, there is fear that the skirmishes will impact the outcome. On Friday, Nadda appointed Bijayant Panda, national vice president as the in-charge for Assam; a former Lok Sabha MP, CP Radhakrishnan was given charge of Kerala; CT Ravi a national general secretary has been given charge of Tamil Nadu while Nirmal Kumar Surana, vice president of the Karnataka unit will look after Puducherry. National general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya will continue to look after West Bengal. KeralaIn Kerala, Radhakrishnan will have the task of bringing together the dissenting groups, which have made public their disagreements. Complaints against his style of functioning led the state unit president K Surendran being summoned to Delhi by Nadda and he also met Union home minister Amit Shah. “After (state) vice president Sobha Surendran made public her concerns, the state unit president was asked to set the house in order as it could have an adverse impact on the upcoming local body elections and then the assembly polls,” said a functionary in Delhi. Sobha Surendran has alleged that she was overlooked for the post of the general secretary and instead made the state unit’s vice president. “Several leaders were also upset that they were overlooked for appointments to the national team whereas relatively new to the party, Abdulla Kutty and Tom Vadakkan were accommodated as national vice president and national spokesperson,” the functionary said. The RSS has also cautioned the central leadership that the friction in the state unit could impact the performance in the local polls; in 2016 the BJP had won in 14 districts and emerged as the main opposition in one corporation and six municipalities. Local polls will be held in three-phases on December 8, 10 and 14. West Bengal In West Bengal, where the party is gearing up for a tough contest against the Mamata Banerjee government, national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya is not unfamiliar with the turf war in the state unit. Several party workers in the state have complained to the party high command that those who joined from the TMC have been given plum positions. “The issue came to fore when after being dropped from the national team, Rahul Sinha posted his grievance in a video claiming that after 40 years in the BJP he was overlooked for Mukul Roy who switched sides from the TMC . The central leadership is also aware of the friction between state unit president Dilip Ghosh and some other leaders,” said a state functionary. Many leaders in the state have begun to pitch themselves as the chief ministerial candidate.. Political commentator Shirish Kashikar, however, said that the BJP’s strong point is tiding over internal differences by the time the party is in the poll mode. “In-fighting is natural in all parties, but the BJP has the ability to scotch differences. In Bihar for instance, they set asides all considerations to win the election and give Nitish Kumar the CM’s post on a platter. So Nadda’s message to the party units will be to join forces to win the elections,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-assembly-polls-tasks-cut-out-for-bjp-s-national-team-friction-in-kerala-bengal/story-z7YdMYcsIwLF4F2KXN7OGN.html
16-11-2020||India||Bihar: Maoists blow up community hall in Gaya, demand Rs2 crore from JD(U) leader||Suspected Maoists blew up a newly constructed community hall in Bihar’s Gaya district late on Sunday night. Police said an armed squad of the CPI (Maoist) stormed into Bodhi-Bigha village in Dumaria police station area of Gaya district, about 119 km south of Patna, late Sunday night and planted dynamites that blew up the building. According to the villagers, the community hall, built with then JD(U) MLC Anuj Kumar’s fund at a cost of Rs20 lakh, had been on Maoists’ radar for a while. On March 27, 2019, Maoists had also blown up Singh’s house in Dumaria after he allegedly failed to return their Rs2 crore given in demonetised notes to exchange. Police sources said there were pamphlets at the site demanding Rs2 crore from Singh, purportedly from Maoists. The pamphlets claimed that Singh was a police informer who harassed common people and had repeatedly been warned. “Our fight is against elements like Anuj Singh who get huge [amounts of ] money from Maoists leaders on the pretext of giving contracts,” they said. While Singh said he had met chief minister Nitish Kumar and sought setting up of police pickets in Bodhi-Bigha in view of the Maoist threat, he refused to comment on the reported Rs2 crore demand from Maoists.Also read | Maoists, security forces exchange fire in Bihar’s JamuiRam Lagan Singh (64), a resident of Bodhi-Bigha village, said the incident occurred around 11.45pm. “The blast was so powerful that everything shook. We also heard slogans like ‘Lal Salam’ being shouted outside and we guessed it was the Maoists who had triggered the blast. So, we remained indoors. When we stepped out in the morning, we saw the community hall had been demolished,” he said. Another villager said dynamite had been used to blow up the building. Fearing a trap, police were yet to visit the spot located deep inside a Maoist zone. Gaya SSP Rajiv Mishra told HT, “The community hall building was inaugurated earlier, but there was no concrete plan to house a police camp. It was the villagers who suspected that a garrison could come up, which may have agitated the Maoists.” It must be noted that while inaugurating the hall right before the recent assembly elections, former chief minister and HAM president Jitan Ram Manjhi had assured that it would get a new police picket. Meanwhile, the police, in cooperation with the central forces, have launched a manhunt for Maoists across the jungles and hills of Dumaria, close to Aurangabad and Palamu (Jharkhand) district borders. Earlier in February this year, suspected Maoists blew up a government school building in Banke Bazar police station area in Gaya and left anti-NRC pamphlets. Hand-written pamphlets were recovered with slogans against “Brahminvadi, Hindutvavadi, fascist BJP government,” that questioned the “occupation” of school buildings by security forces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-maoists-blow-up-community-hall-in-gaya-demand-rs2-crore-from-jd-u-leader/story-hyzsG2Gt3PT2WiBnGAe0sN.html
16-11-2020||India||Goa woman murders husband’s aunts, leaves behind daughter as witness||A young woman brutally murdered her husband’s foster family, killing his two aunts -- Marta Clementina Lobo (64) and Vera Lobo (62) -- with the help of a hired killer on Sunday evening, the Goa police have said. Rovina Lobo (29) and her accomplice Subhan Rajyaballi (28) were arrested by the police in the wee hours of Monday morning after Rovina’s husband, Julio (32), who was out of the house at the time of the incident, complained to the police. Julio was brought up under the care of his aunts, Marta and Vera, both of whom were unmarried and Rovina joined the family in their house after her marriage to Julio. However, relations between her and his aunts quickly deteriorated amid allegations that she was being harassed by his aunts, which led her to plan the murder.The family was living in Siolim village in North Goa, while Julio’s parents are living in another house in the same village.“Rovina hired Subhan Rajyaballi (to commit the murder) as both the aunts were not on good terms with her for a long time. They committed the murder with sharp weapons,” Anjuna police inspector Suraj Gawas, said. Also Read: Goa CM Pramod Sawant pledges to cut coal handling at Mormugao port by 50%The duo was first battered with a pedestal fan then struck with a koita (billhook) until they passed away. The couple has two children -- a daughter aged seven and a son aged one-- with the elder of the two having witnessed the murders and reported it to her father when he returned home, leading to the complaint.The woman and her accomplice left the crime scene with her younger child, leaving the elder one behind. Both have been arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-woman-murders-husband-s-aunts-leaves-behind-daughter-as-witness/story-TLnBxFJ2F0yZCahkUakb3O.html
16-11-2020||India||Delhi’s minimum temp rises due to cloud cover, settles at 16 degrees celsius||The national capital on Monday recorded a minimum temperature of 16 degrees Celsius, the highest since October 22, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).IMD officials attributed the rise in the minimum temperature to the presence of clouds in the region under the influence of a western disturbance. Until now, Delhi had been witnessing a trend of low minimum temperatures this month due to the absence of cloud cover. Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation and radiate it back downward, warming the ground. The maximum temperature is expected to settle at 26 degrees Celsius, the IMD said.The minimum temperature is likely to drop below 10 degrees Celsius by Friday, according to the IMD.“As the western disturbance withdraws from the region, the wind direction will again change to northwesterly. Cold winds from hilly regions, which have received a fresh spell of snowfall, will start blowing towards the national capital,” an IMD official said.Read more | Covid-19: Home secy to chair meeting to rework Delhi’s containment strategy todayOn Sunday, the city recorded a minimum temperature of 11.4 degrees Celsius, two notches below normal, and a maximum temperature of 29.1 degrees Celsius. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded 0.4 mm rainfall on Sunday. The weather stations at Palam, Lodhi Road, Ridge, Jafarpur, Najafgarh and Pusa recorded 1.8 mm, 0.3 mm, 1.2 mm, 1 mm, 1 mm and 2.5 mm rainfall respectively. Fairly widespread rain was recorded in Punjab, Haryana, Delhi and few parts of Uttar Pradesh, which should help improve the air quality, the IMD official said. Watch: Delhi’s Covid target amid fresh wave: 1 lakh daily tests, 750 new ICU beds||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-minimum-temp-rises-due-to-cloud-cover-settles-at-16-degrees-celsius/story-B23sRRmqfrwQLPi0L7O16O.html
16-11-2020||India||Covid-19: Govt deliberating on holding next Parliament session in January||With no respite in the rising Covid-19 cases across the country, the centre has taken a cautious approach and is likely to decide against holding the Parliament’s winter session this year.Sources in the government stated that currently, deliberations are on the decision to not hold the winter session. Whether to club the winter session and budget session or to just to hold the budget session directly next year is also under consideration, sources added. The secretariats of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha have not begun preparing for the session yet.“The members are supposed to be informed 15 days in advance so that if there is a question hour, they can send in their questions in advance,” stated the source.The argument, to not hold the winter session this year has been given due to a rise in the number of cases. The cautious approach is needed as Parliament members come in close contact with officials, people and other members and are especially vulnerable to the infection, despite Covid-19 safety protocols being followed at Parliament House.Read more | Covid-19 spike in Capital may hit Winter SessionThe winter session takes place in mid-November and continues till mid-December. However, the situation of Covid-19 spread in the national capital is making the government reluctant in having the session on time.“During the monsoon session, we had cases reaching 2,000 to 3,000, not more than that and yet we had to curtail the session. Now, the tally stands at 7,000 and above. The government work will not be hampered,” stated the source.“There were more than 30 MPs who were tested positive for Covid-19 during and at the beginning of the monsoon session. We ensured routine Covid tests to check anyone with infection,” stated the source.The sources claim that the next Parliament session, budget session, is likely to be called at the end of January 2021.Watch: Delhi’s Covid target amid fresh wave: 1 lakh daily tests, 750 new ICU beds||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-govt-deliberating-on-holding-next-parliament-session-in-january/story-nt3R2C49UKYY9O6rMoHsUP.html
16-11-2020||India||Amid snowfall, portals of Kedarnath shrine close for winter season||Following all rituals and special prayers amid snowfall, the portals of the Kedarnath shrine closed for the winter season on Monday at 8:30 am in the presence of chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath. This year over 1,35,000 pilgrims have visited the Kedarnath shrine in Rudraprayag district of Uttarakhand since yatra was allowed on July 1. On Monday morning, the shrine was opened at 3 am when the chief priest Shivshankar Ling performed the Samadhi Puja of Lord Kedar and the sanctum sanctorum was closed at 6:30 am. At 8:30 am the assembly hall and the main gate of the shrine were closed. Harish Gaur, media in-charge of Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board said, “This year, 1,35,023 pilgrims have visited the Kedarnath shrine since pilgrims were allowed to visit the shrine from July 1 following all safety protocols in view of Covid-19 epidemic. The deity will now stay in his winter abode of Ukhimath for the next six months and the palanquin left for the winter abode after closing of the shrine.”The palanquin with the deity will reach the winter abode of Onkareshwar temple on November 18 after which the prayers will be offered there. Meanwhile, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday inspected the ongoing reconstruction works in Kedarnath, like construction of Shankaracharya’s Samadhi Sthal, Aastha Path, Dhyan Caves and the bridge built in Kedarnath.Rawat informed Adityanath in detail about the ongoing reconstruction work in Kedarnath. “Under the guidance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, construction works were done at a very fast pace in Kedarnath. Modern instruments were brought to Kedarnath by helicopter for construction works. The progress of the construction works was regularly monitored from Dehradun. Kedarnath will soon become a center of attraction for devotees of the country and the world in a new form. Along with the strengthening of the routes coming to Kedarnath, attention is also being paid to the development of infrastructure facilities at the shrine,” said Rawat.Yogi Adityanath said, “I got the privilege of offering prayers to Lord Kedarnath after around 11-12 years. After 2013 flash floods, the reconstruction work in the area is being carried out on a war footing. The Uttarakhand government has done an excellent job of rebuilding Kedarnath under the guidance of the Prime Minister and in restoring the faith of the devotees of the country and abroad.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-snowfall-portals-of-kedarnath-shrine-close-for-winter-season/story-p2Udb5AdmBxtkufgOsWxpM.html
16-11-2020||India||Kolkata, Howrah see improvement in post-Diwali air largely due to ban on crackers||Kolkata and Howrah saw marked improvement in the post-Diwali air quality this year compared to 2019 following the ban on fire-crackers imposed by the Calcutta High Court. With fewer crackers this year, the noise level in the two cities was also much less compared to last year. Data available with the West Bengal Pollution Control Board revealed that while the level of pollutants had shot up nine to 13 times above the daily permissible limits in Kolkata on Diwali night earlier, this year it was around three times above the permissible limit. “The level of PM2.5 (pollutants which are at least 30 times finer than human hair) had shot up to 768 micrograms per metre cube around midnight on Diwali in 2019. This year it reached a peak of 185 micrograms per metre cube around 12 midnight. The daily permissible limit is 60 micrograms per metre cube,” said a senior official of the state pollution control board. ALSO READ | Kolkata residents create history on Diwali by shunning fireworksThe Calcutta HC had banned the use of fireworks during Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath Puja in November this year across the state. The Supreme Court has refused to reverse a ban on sale or use of firecrackers in West Bengal during the festive month of November, saying that preservation of life should be the top priority in a country faced with a pandemic. Similarly, in Howrah where air quality remains equally bad, pollution levels had shot up 11–15 times above the safe limits after Diwali last year. This year it has shot up around three to five times. “The post-Diwali air quality was much better this year compared to last year. This is despite the fact that Diwali was celebrated much later this year and the night temperature was much less compared to last year. The colder the night the higher would be the pollution as the pollutants get trapped close to the ground level,” said a senior official. Environment and health experts have warned that chronic exposure to air pollutants is associated with severe infections and higher mortality. They feel that lungs compromised due to pollution could lead to complications like pneumonia during Covid-19. That fewer crackers were used this year following the HC ban was also evident from the fact that noise levels were also less this year. The average noise level was at least two decibels less this year in Kolkata.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kolkata-howrah-see-improvement-in-post-diwali-air-largely-due-to-ban-on-crackers/story-XvjUnHhb1T3rRUZati8QoI.html
16-11-2020||India||7 killed after vehicle falls in khud in Himachal Pradesh, PM Modi expresses grief||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday expressed grief over the road accident in Himachal Pradesh’s Mandi district in which seven people lost their lives. Seven people were killed when a vehicle in which they were travelling fell into a khud in Himachal Pradesh’s Mandi district on Monday, police said. One person was also injured after the Mahindra pickup fell into Suketi Khud at Pulghrat near Mandi at around 2.30 am, they said. Six people died on the spot, while two injured were taken to a zonal hospital where one of them succumbed to his injuries, the police said.“Extremely pained after hearing the news of a road accident in Mandi in Himachal Pradesh. The government is involved in relief and rescue operations. I express my deepest condolences to the families of the deceased and wish the injured well soon,” PMO tweeted, quoting PM Modi. हिमाचल प्रदेश के मंडी में सड़क हादसे की खबर से अत्यंत दुख हुआ है। सरकार राहत और बचाव कार्य में जुटी हुई है। इस दुर्घटना में मृतकों के परिजनों के प्रति गहरी संवेदना प्रकट करता हूं और घायलों के जल्द स्वस्थ होने की कामना करता हूं : PM @narendramodiPresident Ram Nath Kovind also expressed grief over the loss of lives and wished a speedy recovery to the injured. In a tweet, Kovind said: “I am deeply saddened to learn about the road accident in Mandi, Himachal Pradesh. Necessary steps are being taken by the local administration to help the affected people. My condolences to the bereaved families. I wish a speedy recovery to the injured.”  हिमाचल प्रदेश के मंडी में हुई सड़क दुर्घटना के बारे में जानकर गहरा दुख हुआ है। स्थानीय प्रशासन द्वारा प्रभावित लोगों की मदद के लिए आवश्यक कदम उठाए जा रहे हैं। शोक संतप्त परिवारों के प्रति मेरी संवेदनाएँ। मैं घायलों के शीघ्र स्वस्थ होने की कामना करता हूँ ।The police have registered a case under IPC sections 279 (rash driving), 338 (causing grievous hurt to any person) and 304 A (causing death by negligence).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-expresses-grief-over-loss-of-lives-due-to-road-accident-in-mandi/story-b3N888Gv9Wua6VvZYhsReM.html
16-11-2020||India||Kedarnath temple closes for winter||The sacred portals of the Himalayan shrine of Kedarnath were closed for the winter season on Monday amid a fresh spell of snowfall.The gates of the temple, which houses one of the 11 jyotirlingas of Lord Shiva and attracts devotees from across the world, were closed at 8:30 am after an elaborate ceremony.Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, his Uttar Pradesh counterpart Yogi Adityanath, and officials of Devasthanam Board, among others, attended the ceremony.The two chief ministers arrived at the shrine on Sunday to offer prayers and take a look at the reconstruction projects underway at Kedarpuri.Snowfall accompanied by a drizzle began in Kedarnath on Sunday night and continued till the morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kedarnath-temple-closes-for-winter/story-9Qa0JaKUxesRxIEKidRLAI.html
16-11-2020||India||Covid-19: Jharkhand bans Chhath Puja in public water bodies||Jharkhand has banned rituals of Chhath Puja, one of the biggest community festivals of the state, in public ponds, rivers, lakes, dams and reservoirs. This has been done in a bid to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), said the order issued by the state disaster management department on Sunday. The main rituals for Chhath Puja are to be performed on November 20 evening and November 21 morning this year. Every year, massive crowds gather at various water bodies across Jharkhand to worship the setting sun and then the rising sun next morning. Urban local bodies make arrangements for the puja by cleaning ghats, deploying security personnel and divers at water bodies, installing lights on roads and making arrangements for changing rooms and toilets at ghats every year. Ranchi Municipal Corporation has already started cleaning of ghats. Also read | JD(U) holds protest against Delhi’s Chhath Puja banHowever, in its order, the disaster management department said, “It is not possible to ensure the compliance of national directive of social distancing norm while performing Chhath Puja in waters of public ponds, lakes, rivers, dams and reservoirs...The ritual of holy bathing in common water bodies and standing in water is a matter of concern as it will amount to sharing of water, thus enhancing the chances of spread of infection besides causing contamination of the water.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-jharkhand-bans-chhath-puja-in-public-water-bodies/story-rLdY8QqTC81GYxq6P0VNJN.html
16-11-2020||India||Amit Shah, Nadda to attend ceremony as Nitish Kumar takes oath as Bihar CM for 4th straight term||BJP president JP Nadda and Union home minister Amit Shah will attend the oath-taking ceremony of JD (U) chief and Bihar CM designate Nitish Kumar in Patna on Monday. The JD (U) chief will take oath as the chief minister of Bihar for the fourth straight term today after a neck-to-neck contest to clinch the Bihar assembly polls, the results for which were declared late at night on November 10.On Sunday, Kumar met Bihar Governor Phagu Chauhan to stake claim to form the government in the state after the NDA emerged victorious in the polls held for the 243 member Bihar assembly. The oath taking ceremony of the new cabinet is likely to be held at around 4.30 pm this afternoon.ALSO READ | JD(U) may get 12 ministerial berths, BJP 18: All eyes on Bihar cabinet formationIn a meeting held on Sunday morning, NDA leaders had chosen Nitish Kumar as the leader of the NDA legislature party securing his return as the chief minister of Bihar for the fourth time.In another surprising development, Katihar MLA-- BJP’s Tarkishore Prasad will take over as the deputy chief minister instead of Sushil Kumar Modi who was at the helm during the earlier term. Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Tejashwi Yadav will not attend the oath-taking ceremony of Bihar CM designate Nitish Kumar to be held in Patna later today.ALSO READ | Tarkishore Prasad, frontrunner in race for Bihar deputy CM, is part of BJP’s Bengal plan. Here’s howThroughout a rigorous poll campaign amid the raging Covid-19 pandemic, the Bharatiya Janata Party had maintained that in the event of a victory for the NDA, incumbent Nitish Kumar would be the chief minister of Bihar. Kumar’s own party, the Janata Dal (United) however, did not put up a very good show in the battle for Bihar. In the 243-seat Bihar Legislative Assembly, the JD (U) just managed to win 43 seats, while 8 seats were won by two other NDA constituents. The BJP won on 74 seats helping the National Democratic Alliance secure a 125-seat majority in the assembly.After the results were declared, the RJD, emerged as the single-largest party with 75 seats while the Congress won only 19 of the 70 seats it had been allotted to contest as part of the Grand Alliance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-nadda-to-attend-ceremony-as-nitish-kumar-takes-oath-as-bihar-cm-for-4th-straight-term/story-bFVa4LNZnxTjBaqb5mGxBN.html
16-11-2020||India||PM Modi greets nation on ‘Bhai Dooj’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday greeted the nation on the occasion of Bhai Dooj.In a tweet, Prime Minister Modi said: “Best wishes to all of you on the holy occasion of Bhai Dooj.”Bhai Dooj, the festival of a symbol of brother-sister love is being celebrated all over the country today.On this day, sisters pray for their brothers to have long and happy lives by performing Tika ceremony and brothers offer gifts to their sisters.Bhaiya Dooj is also known as Bhau Beej and Bhathru Dwithiya. As per Hindu traditions. it is believed that Goddess Yamuna fed her brother Yamraj on Kartik Dwitiya at her own home. Since then this day is known as Yama Dwitiya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-greets-nation-on-bhai-dooj/story-pax3G9RrloYh9zHrPRy89H.html
16-11-2020||India||Steep decline in daily Covid-19 numbers; recovery rate above 93%||The number of daily coronavirus disease cases (Covid-19) in India fell further to 30,548 on Monday, according to the Union health ministry update at 8 am. The nationwide tally stands at 8,845,127.There have been 435 fresh fatalities, which took the death toll up to 130,070, health ministry data showed.The number of active cases stayed below the five lakh-mark on Monday too. 8,249,579 patients have been discharged from the hospitals so far, Monday’s update showed.India has been recording a decline in the number of new Covid-19 cases over the past weeks.On Monday morning, the ministry said that India continues to have one of the lowest cases per million population globally. “Fifteen states and union territories have cases per million lower than the national average,” it tweeted.Meanwhile, the testing of samples has been touching new heights. According to Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 12,56,98,525 samples have been tested for Covid-19 till November 15. “Of these 8,61,706 samples were tested yesterday,” it further said.National capital Delhi has been a particular area of concern for the government. On Sunday, Union home minister Amit Shah held a meeting on Delhi’s Covid-19 situation and announced a slew of steps, including making available 300 additional ICU beds, double the number of daily RT-PCR tests and a house-to-house survey in the entire national capital.Shah also said some of the hospitals under the municipal corporations of Delhi will be converted into dedicated Covid-19 hospitals.Doctors and paramedics of paramilitary forces will also be flown in to be deployed in the national capital to deal with the shortage of manpower, he added. The number of tests too will be doubled.Meanwhile, the health ministry said that India has been reporting less than 50,000 new daily cases of Covid-19 for more than eight days now - a trend which assumes wider significance as many countries in Europe and America continue to see a surge in their daily numbers.New recoveries outnumbering fresh Covid-19 cases every 24-hour cycle has also improved the recovery rate to 93.09 per cent, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-30-548-fresh-covid-19-cases-43-851-recoveries-in-24-hours-death-toll-at-130-070/story-VUR8vSI2gUxP7sjin7H8nO.html
16-11-2020||India||Covid-19 pandemic: Vaccine frontrunners and other latest developments||The global pandemic continues to break records as the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed as many as 660,905 new infections worldwide in one day (on Saturday). As per John Hopkins University, the worldwide number of infections stands at 54,299,446 while 1,315,897 people have succumbed to the disease.Across the world, efforts are on to find a vaccine to stop the spread of the disease. According to WHO, more than 150 Covid-19 vaccine candidates from various pharmaceutical companies are presently in development, with around 44 in clinical trials and 11 undergoing late-stage testing.Here’s all you need to know about the vaccine frontrunners:Pfizer and BioNTechPfizer and its German partner BioNTech said last week that preliminary analysis showed their vaccine could prevent more than 90 per cent of people from getting Covid-19 in the phase III trials in which 43,000 people took part. Prof Ugur Sahin, co-founder and CEO of BioNTech, told the BBC that the goal was to deliver more than 300 million doses worldwide by next April, which “could allow us to only start to make an impact”.Moderna Inc.US drugmaker Moderna Inc is likely to release first interim analysis data on late-stage trials of its Covid-19 vaccine candidate. Moderna Inc recently said preliminary data of its Phase III mRNA-1273 vaccine trials was being prepared for submission to the monitoring board, raising hopes that initial results would be released soon. In the trial 43,538 people participated. The company has also announced that it would seek emergency-use authorisation for its vaccine candidate in high-risk groups if interim assessment showed it to be atleast 70 per cent effective. The firm is eyeing to produce 20 million doses of its experimental vaccine by the end of the year.AstraZeneca-Oxford coronavirus vaccineSerum Institute of India, which is conducting Phase 2/3 trials of the Oxford University vaccine called Covishield said it was aiming to produce 100 million doses by December. Serum Institute CEO Adar Poonawalla said the Pune-based firm might get emergency-use authorization by December if late-stage trial data showed that the vaccine candidate provided effective protection from the virus. He added that preliminary results have shown that there were no immediate concerns pertaining to the Covishield vaccine.Read more | Delhi in battle mode to rein in Covid-19 waveSputnik V coronavirus vaccineRussia’s Sputnik-V vaccine, developed by the Gamaleya National Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology, has arrived in India and trials will begin soon. In India, Dr Reddy’s will test the vaccine candidate on around 1,500 participants in a Phase 2/3 clinical trial across at least 10 sites as the vaccine was claimed to be 92 per cent effective in preventing Covid-19 in a trial which included 16,000 participants.Johnson and Johnson coronavirus vaccineJohnson & Johnson had halted its trials in October over safety concerns but is now spending about $604 million in expanding its deal with the US government to develop its single-shot JNJ-78436735 vaccine. A vaccine from a unit of Johnson & Johnson is set to move to the third phase of clinical trials in the UK that will test the safety and effectiveness of the shot. The testing round by Janssen Pharmaceutical will include 6,000 volunteers and take place across 17 sites, according to a statement. The firm has said that first batches of its candidate could be available as soon as January.Delhi’s Covid target amid fresh wave: 1 lakh daily tests, 750 new ICU beds||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/covid-19-pandemic-vaccine-frontrunners-and-other-latest-developments/story-NuAs15YSdVT4TwB0aSZldM.html
16-11-2020||India||Uttarakhand logs 213 fresh Covid-19 infections, 5 more patients die||Uttarakhand added 213 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday taking the state’s tally of total coronavirus cases to 68,215. Five more Covid-19 patients also died in the state taking the death toll to 1107.Out of 68,215 people who have tested positive so far, a total of 61,950 have recovered successfully, taking the recovery rate in Uttarakhand to 90.82%. The positivity rate in the state now stands at 5.80%. Also, 218 Covid-19 positive people recovered from the viral infection on Sunday.According to the health bulletin issued on Sunday, a maximum of 80 cases were reported from Dehradun district. Three districts of Champawat, Rudraprayag and Tehri Garhwal did not report any infections on Sunday. Dehradun district has so far reported the maximum of 18,967 Covid-19 cases followed by Haridwar (11,484), US Nagar (9,907) and Nainital (7,895). Uttarakhand currently has two containment zones in Dehradun and Almora district each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-logs-213-fresh-covid-19-infections-5-more-patients-die/story-LB3k9nfu3UgSKoJVeoVh4J.html
16-11-2020||India||Places of worship reopen in Maharashtra with strict Covid-19 protocols in place||Religious places across Maharashtra reopened on Monday after nearly eight months of closure due to the lockdown imposed in a bid to control the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.The announcement to reopen religious places in Maharashtra was made by the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) on Saturday.Also Read: Maharashra looks to bring down Covid-19 case fatality rateThe prominent religious places in the state include Sai Baba temple in Shirdi, the Mahim Dargah and Siddhivinayak temple in Mumbai and the Dagdusheth Halwai Temple in Pune.The gates of the places of worship were opened after midnight for the management officials to clean and sanitise the premises ahead of its reopening for devotees to offer early morning prayers.“People have been waiting for over eight months. Government SOP and internal SOP of the dargah will be followed. We have put up boards with government and Dargah SOPs. Only those with face masks will be allowed inside the premises and their temperature will be recorded before entry,” Mahim Dargah trustee Suhail Y Khandwani said.“I feel fortunate that I visited the temple in the new year, after Diwali. I’m very happy. All Covid-19 precautionary measures are being taken here,” a devotee who visited the Siddhivinayak temple told news agency ANI.As per the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) laid down by the Maharashtra government, religious places located in the containment zones have not been allowed to open. Only asymptomatic people will be allowed inside places of worship, and they will have to enter in a staggered manner.Wearing a face mask is mandatory and the visitors are required to strictly follow the social distancing norms. The state government has also asked the management of these places to conduct thermal scanning and provide visitors with hand wash facility or sanitiser.Touching statues, holy books and idols is prohibited under the guidelines. Also, only recorded devotional music will be played. Choir or singing groups are not allowed.These SOPs have also empowered the local authorities to add directions to check the spread of the infection. Accordingly, the management of the Sai Baba temple in Shirdi said it will only allow visitors inside the premises after an online booking for a specific time slot.“We have made arrangements to control the crowd at the temple. People will be allotted time slots online for visit. Only 6,000 people will be allowed to enter the temple in a day. The temple will only remain open for 14 hours,” a representative of the temple added.Religious places across Maharashtra have remained shut since March this year, when the central government imposed a complete lockdown to control the spread of Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/places-of-worship-reopen-in-maharashtra-with-strict-covid-19-protocols-in-place/story-nhVTYJRTzQHjUzaq6xilKN.html
16-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Covid-19 spike in Delhi may hit Parliament’s Winter Session and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19 spike in Capital may hit Winter SessionRising cases of Covid-19 infections in the Capital might cast a shadow on the upcoming winter session of Parliament, said two functionaries with knowledge of the developments. There is a possibility that the session, which normally begins in November and ends in December, may get clubbed with the Budget session that usually begins in the last week of January. Read more British PM Boris Johnson self-isolates after Covid-19 contactBritish Prime Minister Boris Johnson is self-isolating after coming into contact with someone who tested positive for Covid-19, a fresh setback after infighting among his top advisers plunged Downing Street into chaos last week. Read more SpaceX launches 4 astronauts to space, kicking off regular crew flights from the USSpaceX launched four astronauts to the International Space Station on Sunday on the first full-fledged taxi flight for NASA by a private company. The Falcon rocket thundered into the night from Kennedy Space Center with three Americans and one Japanese, the second crew to be launched by SpaceX. Read more Lewis Hamilton: Dreamer, chaser, believerCar No.44 stopped in front of the board marked for the winner at parc ferme and the driver held his head. Lewis Hamilton lifted the helmet visor, wiped his moist eyes and climbed out of his black Mercedes to stand on it, soaking in the feeling as seven-time world champion. He had just equalled Michael Schumacher’s world record for most Formula 1 titles. Read more Yay or nay? Diwali 2020 looks of Kiara Advani, Alia Bhatt, Sara Ali Khan, Janhvi Kapoor, Ananya Panday, other divas in their 20sBe it designer kurta sets or lehengas printed with kids’ drawings, the 20-something brigade of Bollywood, including actors Kiara Advani, Alia Bhatt, Sara Ali Khan, Janhvi Kapoor, Ananya Panday, Tara Sutaria, Sanya Malhotra, Athiya Shetty and Sanjana Sanghi, went all out as they supported local brands yet killed Diwali 2020 fashion. Read moreThis lego stop motion clip of making a pizza may make your mouth water. WatchLego blocks are among the most fun things to play with when it comes to expressing one’s creative self. And this Reddit clip showing a pizza being made of legos is beyond an entertaining and satisfying watch. Chances are you’ll find it hard to differentiate between a real pizza and the lego one. Watch Delhi’s Covid target amid fresh wave: 1 lakh daily tests, 750 new ICU bedsDelhi is in battle mode amid fresh wave of Covid-19 infections. Union Home minister Amit Shah chaired a meeting on countering Covid spike on November 15. Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal, Union & Delhi Health Ministers, Delhi l-G attended the meet. The decisions taken in the meeting included increasing testing, adding ICU beds and doctors. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-covid-19-spike-in-delhi-may-hit-parliament-s-winter-session-and-all-the-latest-news/story-h8sP6gYfaFDkibk6o1t65N.html
16-11-2020||India||Kanpur man returns home after spending 8 years in Pakistan jail on espionage charges||Shamsuddin, jailed in Pakistan on espionage charges, was waiting for eight years to meet his family. That wait finally came to an end on Sunday when the 70-year-old was brought back by authorities to his native place near Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh.A smiling Shamsuddin met his sobbing daughters, and his sister lost consciousness briefly seeing the 70-year-old after such a long time. There was a Diwali-like atmosphere in the entire locality where he lived.Shamsuddin had reached India via the Attari-Wagah border on October 26, but was serving the required quarantine period in Amritsar amid the Covid-19 outbreak.The Uttar Pradesh Police reached Kanpur with Shamsuddin at 9:45 am and handed him over to the family members after initial paperwork.“For us, this Diwali has become memorable. My daughter was also born on Diwali... Her prayers are over,” HT’s sister website Live Hindustan quoted Shamshuddin as saying.A shoemaker by profession, Shamsuddin was arrested in Pakistan in 2012. He spent eight long years in Pakistani prison after been convicted for espionage charge.He was also charged with possessing a fake passport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kanpur-man-returns-home-after-spending-8-years-in-pakistan-jail-on-espionage-charges/story-dmoSAf6sKY4gRuvnTR070J.html
16-11-2020||India||Lower air pollution, noise recorded in Chennai on Diwali compared to earlier years||Despite Tamil Nadu not banning firecrackers and restricting bursting of fireworks to 2-hours on Diwali day--which was flouted-- Chennai’s air pollution and noise has declined compared to 2019, according to observations made by the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB). As of November 14, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) labelled Chennai’s air quality as ‘satisfactory’ with prominent pollutants being PM 10, PM 2.5 and CO while Delhi was categorized as ‘severe’.Four parameters--PM10, PM2.5, SO2, and NO2-- are monitored to assess the air quality index or AQI. To study the ambient air quality and noise pollution levels, TNPCB manually monitored five locations in the city and has reported the AQI at Besant Nagar (62), T Nagar (72), Nungambakkam (59), Triplicane (107) and Sowcarpet (100). The considerable reduction of pollution level and the noise level are mainly due to the public co-operation following the Supreme Court’s guidelines, said a statement from TNPCB adding that awareness in the time of the Covid-19 pandemic could also be a factor. Studies have shown a link between poor air quality and lowered ability to recover from the coronavirus.According to their report, PM10 values were observed to be within the limits except in Triplicane and Sowcarpet where it was marginally higher and PM 2.5 were within limits. Gaseous pollutants SO2 and NO2 were also within prescribed standards. The survey was done from 6 am to 6 am in commercial and residential localities.In 2019, on Diwali which fell on October 27, the AQI was highest in Sowcarpet station at 119 and lowest in Nungambakkam station at 85. CPCB guidelines have also instructed authorities to conduct short term monitoring for 14 days (a week before and after Diwali) On a regular day on November 9, AQI was observed to be highest in T Nagar (65). In 2019, a week before Diwali on October 20, the highest value was recorded in the same location at 81.Noise levels which were monitored for 24-hours and measured in dB (A) Leq was reported as (78), T Nagar (78), Nungambakkam (71), Triplicane (75) and Sowcarpet (76). The noise level ranged from 54 dB(A) to 69 dB(A) pre- Diwali on November 9 and ranged from 71dB(A) to 78 dB(A) on Diwali this year which is found to be lower compared to the previous year, said a statement from TNPCB.On Diwali day on November 14, PM10 results ranged from 52 to 111 ug/m3 during against the prescribed standard of 100 ug/m3. PM2.5. results ranges from 32 to 59 microgram/m3 against the prescribed standard of 60 ug/m3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lower-air-pollution-noise-recorded-in-chennai-on-diwali-compared-to-earlier-years/story-7Xgvi8ZAr7QsJK88quwbiK.html
16-11-2020||India||PM Modi to unveil ‘Statue of Peace’ in Rajasthan today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will unveil the “Statue of Peace” in Rajasthan’s Pali district via video-conferencing on Monday to mark the 151st birth anniversary celebrations of Jain monk Acharya Shree Vijay Vallabh Surishwer Ji Maharaj.The 151-inch-tall statue is made of “ashtadhatu” (eight metals with copper being the major constituent) and is being installed at the Vijay Vallabh Sadhana Kendra, Jetpura, in Rajasthan’s Pali, an official statement said.The saint, who lived during 1870-1954, led an austere life, working selflessly and dedicatedly to spread the message of Lord Mahavira, it said.He also worked relentlessly for the welfare of the masses, spread of education and eradication of social evils, wrote inspiring literature (poetry, essays, devotional hymns and stavans) and gave active support to the freedom movement and the cause of the swadeshi, the statement said.With his inspiration, more than 50 educational institutions of eminence, including colleges, schools and study centres, are operational across several states, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-unveil-statue-of-peace-in-rajasthan-today/story-3Lav1Pj2ya7CzDZoOkyG6K.html
16-11-2020||India||SC to hear plea seeking removal of Andhra CM||The Supreme Court will today hear a PIL seeking the removal of YS Jaganmohan Reddy from the post of Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister over his “scandalising” remarks against the second senior-most judge of the top court.A bench of the apex court, headed by Justice Uday Umesh Lalit, will hear the public interest litigation that also sought an explanation from Reddy for writing a letter to Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde making “wild and reckless” allegations against Justice NV Ramana.The PIL, jointly filed by advocates GS Mani, Pradeep Kumar Yadav and SK Singh, contended that Jagan Mohan Reddy is facing more than 20 criminal cases including money laundering and corruption in the court which are very serious in nature.Reddy should be removed as the Chief Minister as he, in public and media, had levelled such kind of allegations against the second senior-most judge of the apex court, Justice NV Ramana, without any basis, the plea said. The plea said that appropriate action for his removal as the Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh must be taken against him immediately by the top court.“In order to get personal gain from the court by abusing his power and post as Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh, he allegedly openly made false, scandalised remarks, vague, and political allegations against a sitting judge of the top court only to tarnish the image of the judiciary in the public mind,” the plea said.It also sought a detailed judicial enquiry, by constituting an internal committee headed by sitting or retired judges of Supreme Court or any authority including the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), over the vague allegation made by Reddy against Justice Ramana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-hear-plea-seeking-removal-of-andhra-cm/story-Fw3sSSM6tOLOZdCCvafczL.html
16-11-2020||India||Strong political will, more public participation needed to enact firecracker ban||As a child, I was terrified of Holi, because people would rub our faces with car grease and toxic dyes. Today, we enjoy a greener Holi. We use colours mostly from natural sources. Even Holika Dahan stands reduced. Even in smaller towns, there is a shift. Bigger than Holi is how we celebrate Raksha Bandhan and Janmashtami. Almost nobody spends hours making sweets at home from lauki and makhana. Those hours of preparation are over. Infact, people- including me --don’t even eat that kind of sugar--it is unhealthy.So, what is it about Diwali celebrations that cannot be changed? If we don’t let our family and friends stain our faces with toxic pink dye anymore, why do we let anyone burn fireworks that scar our lungs and heart? Isn’t it the puja and the lights that are the heart of the festivities, not the fireworks?While some sections of the society are offended that fireworks are banned, I believe that it has also been particularly poorly handled by state governments. They could have banned fireworks at the start of the year and implemented the ban by intense public discussions, strict vigilance on trade. Traders might not have invested in the crackers, and eventually, the firecrackers won’t have been available in the market .Every state government must build consensus with influencers and religious bodies, and put in a tough ban several months ahead the coming year, so everyone can enjoy Diwali without either fireworks or feeling deprived.Keeping citizens safe is the fundamental role of any government.(The writer is Founder and Director Chintan Environmental Research and Action Group)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/strong-political-will-more-public-participation-needed-to-enact-firecracker-ban/story-L3kual47WuC6f1kILW85LP.html
16-11-2020||India||PM Modi spells out India’s war strategy||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s friends and detractors know that there is nothing casual about the man from Gujarat. He practises his speeches, measures his words, then articulates the message for maximum impact. Over the weekend, addressing the tri-services at historic Longewala, where a Punjab regiment company and Air Force Hunters destroyed 40 Pakistani tanks in the 1971 conflict, Modi spelt out the Indian war strategy and it was certainly not pacifist. He said that India is willing to understand or make the adversary understand but there will be fiery retaliation if the enemy tries to test its military might. Simply put, India is not seeking confrontation but will stand its ground in case it is confronted. In Modi’s speech there was a message for both domestic and international audience. He skipped the East Asia Summit to be with Indian troops on Diwali Day and deputed External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar to speak in his stead.Modi’s stand has been consistent. For instance, during the Balakot strike on February 26, 2019, after the Pakistani propaganda machine started posting pictures of a captured and bleeding Wing Commander Abhinandan, Modi let it be known to Islamabad that India would launch a missile strike if any harm came to the Indian Air Force pilot. He asked Indian Prithvi Missiles to be deployed in the Rajasthan sector. Such was the impact of the message that MiG 21 Indian pilot was set free by the Pakistan government the very next day.In Longewal, like he has done previously, PM Modi criticised the expansionist policies of the present Chinese regime (although he did not name the country) by saying that it was a product of a 18th century twisted mindset and that India would firmly oppose it. This was a counter to the Chinese description of rapidly emerging QUAD grouping of India, the US, Japan and Australia as a product of Cold War mindset.At Longewala, Modi again reiterated the Indian resolve to take the battle to the enemy or extinguish the threat to India at source. This new offensive-defensive doctrine of India has been accompanied by the building of airborne and expeditionary force projection capability, something that will ensure that future battles are not fought on Indian soil.Prime Minister Modi’s statement should not be seen in isolation but in the context of what his National Security Advisor Ajit Doval said on banks of River Ganga at Rishikesh on October 22 and what External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said at the East Asia Summit on Diwali day. The message from both was not sugar coated; it was an expression of what India expects from the neighbours in terms of (tamping down on) cross-border terrorism and (enhancing) freedom to navigate the South China Sea and resist any attempts to make it into Chinese pond. Without seeking any acrimony or confrontation with Beijing, what Jaishankar conveyed on Saturday was a reiteration of PM Modi’s conversation with the then Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe during the first summit meeting in 2014. At the time, Modi’s strong position alarmed some Indian mandarins but the PM has stayed true to that. It is another matter that Jaishankar was among the more moderate voices on the South China Sea at the East Asia Summit.While India and China are on track to disengage and de-escalate from East Ladakh to mutual satisfaction, New Delhi is neither over-negotiating with PLA to bring the Depsang bulge issue into the current resolution nor is it willing to cede an inch of territory from the friction points at Galwan, Gogra-Hot Springs and the finger 4 spur on the north banks of the Pangong Tso.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-spells-out-india-s-war-strategy/story-jld07rXWIjYwCNIfpvCWYM.html
16-11-2020||India||‘Status not determined by posts’: Giriraj Singh to Sushil Kumar Modi||After Katihar MLA was on Sunday elected BJP’s leader in the Bihar assembly, Union Minister Giriraj Singh put out a tweet for Sushil Kumar Modi who was the leader of the party’s legislature party in the state before the just concluded assembly elections. “Respected Sushil ji, you are the leader, you had the post of Deputy Chief Minister, you will continue to remain the leader of BJP in the future as well, nobody’s status is determined by the post he holds,” Singh tweeted in HindiHe was responding to a tweet put out by Modi, who served as the deputy chief minister in Nitish Kumar’s last cabinet.“The BJP and the Sangh Parivar gave me so much in the political life of 40 years that someone else might have not received it. I will discharge the responsibility that will be given to me. No one can take away the post of the worker,” Sushil Kumar Modi had tweeted.Katihar MLA Tarkishore Prasad was unanimously elected as the leader of the BJP party in Bihar.Earlier in the day, a meeting of the NDA was held where Nitish Kumar was named as the leader, paving the way for his return as chief minister for the fourth consecutive term.NDA secured a majority in the recently-concluded election to 243-member Bihar Assembly by winning 125 seats.Janata Dal (United) chief Nitish Kumar met Bihar Governor Phagu Chauhan to stake claim to form NDA government. Later, he announced that the swearing-in ceremony of the new cabinet will take place on Monday.“Oath taking ceremony to be held tomorrow afternoon around 4.30 pm,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/you-will-continue-to-remain-bjp-leader-in-future-as-well-giriraj-singh-to-sushil-modi/story-tMJ9fcXFJ2zu1xJgDDQRJJ.html
16-11-2020||India||Kolkata air quality turns poorer than that on Diwali evening||The Air quality in Kolkata turned poorer on Sunday evening from what it was 24 hours ago on the Kali puja and Diwali day, but it was still better when compared to that recorded a day after the festivals last year, an official of the West Bengal Pollution Control Board said.The Air Quality Index (AQI) was higher than Saturday’s figure across the city. Though the air quality remained ‘poor’ in north Kolkata, it continued to be moderate elsewhere.The automated air monitoring station at Rabindra Bharati University campus in congested north Kolkata recorded the AQI at 287 (PM 2.5) at 8 pm on Sunday while it was 226 at the same time on Saturday, the WBPCB official said.An AQI between 101 and 200 is considered ‘moderate’, 201-300 ‘poor’, 301-400 ‘very poor’ and 401-500 ‘severe’, while the AQI above 500 falls in the severe plus category.Also Read | Kolkata residents create history on Diwali by shunning fireworksOn Sunday, the AQI was 187 at Ballygunge in south Kolkata, 186 at Victoria in the central part of the city and 146 in east Kolkata’s Bidhan Nagar. On the Diwali evening on Saturday, the AQI at those three places were 142, 115 and 151 respectively.The AQI measured at Rabindra Bharati University was beyond 700 on the evenings of Kali Puja and Diwali evenings in 2019, the official said. However, the AQI elsewhere in the city had hovered between 300 and 500.Diwali is celebrated during the transition of two seasons - post-monsoon and pre-winter - when meteorological conditions do not support dilution and dispersion of pollutants due to low atmospheric boundary layer, low ventilation and low wind speed, the official said.In this transition phase, the ambient temperature, particularly at night, decreases and allows all pollutants to come close to ground level, especially in entire Indo-Gangetic plains, he said.The impact of bursting of firecrackers was alarming in 2019, and there was a blanket ban on fireworks this year. But lowering of night temperature was much significant, he said attributing the rise of the AQI to the night temperature conditions.The Calcutta High Court had last week ordered a blanket ban on the use of fireworks in West Bengal during Kali puja, Diwali, Chhath and other pujas during this festive season to curb pollution amid the COVID-19 pandemic.In the previous years, only firecrackers that emit over 90 decibels of sound were not allowed by the WBPCB, and there was no ban on fireworks that emit light.“Our control room is monitoring the situation 24x7 even today. We are collating figures. So far the situation remains largely under control,” he said.Environmentalist S M Ghosh said, “Thanks to the court order, public awareness and activities of the Kolkata Police, health experts and NGOs, air pollution is less.However, there should not be any laxity as AQI level in the ‘poor’ cause breathing problems to people, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kolkata-air-quality-turns-poorer-than-that-on-diwali-evening/story-FkdOWLjL1woJ0hCsusa3rJ.html
16-11-2020||India||Maharashtra: ‘Prepared to deal with Covid-19 surge,’ says minister as temples set to reopen||After the Maharashtra government’s announcement to re-open places of worship from November 16, Maharashtra Cabinet Minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik on Sunday said that the state government is cautious about the surge in Covid-19 cases due to reopening, but it is ready to deal with it.“After eight months, the places of worship are going to reopen in Maharashtra, but we have also issued guidelines regarding social distancing and sanitisation. Hopefully, people will follow them. Maharashtra always has more cases but the government has controlled it with Maja kutumb, Maji zimmedari (My family, My Responsibility) campaign. Now if people don’t follow the instruction, the cases may increase again, but we have improved our health infrastructure and are prepared to deal with it,” he said.Religious places in Maharashtra will reopen on November 16 as per the instructions issued by the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO).Taking about Karnataka government’s approval to establish Maratha Development Authority with Rs 50 crore fund, Malik said the reason behind the dispute with Karnataka is that Marathi speakers in the neighbouring state want to be part of Maharashtra.“Border dispute is an issue with Karnataka. Marathi speakers want to be part of Maharashtra. A Rs 50 crore fund is no redressal. The two governments should sit and talk,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-prepared-to-deal-with-covid-19-surge-says-minister-as-temples-set-to-reopen/story-rhWIcS9aALH5wkmGgcwUqK.html
16-11-2020||India||Religious places across Maharashtra to reopen today||Religious places across Maharashtra are reopening for devotees to offer prayers from Monday after several months of closure due to the lockdown imposed in a bid to control the Covid-19 pandemic.Maharashtra Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) had on Saturday informed that all religious places including temples, shrines, churches, dargahs, etc in the state will be allowed to reopen for devotees from November 16.Notably, the prominent religious places across the state including Sai Baba temple in Shirdi, the Mahim Dargah in Mumbai and the Dagdusheth Halwai Temple in Pune have been prepared for their reopening to the devotees.Also Read | No choir singing, touching of idols: Maharashtra issues SOPs as places of worship set to reopenThe gates of the places of worship were opened after midnight for the management officials to clean and sanitise the premises ahead of its reopening for devotees to offer early morning prayers.“After midnight, the doors of the Dargah Sharif were opened and the management officials entered the premises. After cleaning, the dargah will be opened for devotees for early morning Namaz,” Mahim Dargah trustee Suhail Y Khandwani said.Khandwani also urged the people to cooperate with the government and Dargah management to ensure people get to offer prayers without risking more exposure to Covid-19.“People have been waiting for over eight months. Government SOP and internal SOP of the dargah will be followed. We have put up boards with government and Dargah SOPs. Only those with facemasks will be allowed inside the premises and their temperature will be recorded before entry,” he said.The Dagdusheth Halwai Temple in Pune has also carried out a complete sanitisation process for the temple premises and made arrangements for the adherence to Covid-19 protocol.Speaking to ANI, Sunil Rasne, deputy president of the temple trust said, “For now we will not be allowing devotees to wait outside or offer prasad and flowers here. They are only allowed to take darshan and leave the place immediately.”The management of the Sai Baba temple in Shirdi said it will only allow visitors inside the premises after an online booking for a specific time slot.“Devotees who want to visit will have to do online booking to get a time-slot for the ‘darshan’. Along with this, people will also have to show a Covid-negative RT-PCR result at the gate. Senior citizens, children and pregnant women will not be allowed to enter the temple,” a representative of the temple management said.“We have made arrangements to control the crowd at the temple. People will be allotted time slots online for visit. Only 6,000 people will be allowed to enter the temple in a day. The temple will only remain open for 14 hours,” the representative added.Religious places across the state have remained shut since March this year, when the Central government imposed a complete lockdown to control the spread of Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/religious-places-across-maharashtra-to-reopen-today/story-9IDvE42vEUbmDHj4xdDOxN.html
16-11-2020||India||NIA wrongly names businessman in its list of most wanted||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) was left red-faced recently when it released the name and photograph of a businessman, Mahesh Agarwal of Adhunik Group, which runs coal and steel plants, in its list of most wanted. And so, for almost nine months, the businessman whose companies do business in thousands of crores appeared in the “most wanted” section of the NIA’s website, usually reserved for global terrorists such as Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) chief Hafiz Mohammad Saeed, and Hizbul Mujahideen leader Syed Salahuddin, their local cadres, and others accused of heinous crimes against the country. The agency had to take down Agarwal’s name from the section last month after the Jharkhand high court, earlier this year, asked it not to take any coercive action against him. Agarwal, managing director of Adhunik Power and Natural Resources Limited (APNRL), which runs a coal based transmission power unit in Jharkhand, was arraigned as an accused by NIA in a charge sheet filed on January 10 this year for allegedly funding the activities of a Maoist-backed group Tritiya Prastuti Committee (TPC). The case, which dates back to 2016, pertains to extortion by Naxal groups from businessmen, transporters and contractors in the coal-rich regions of Bihar and Jharkhand. TPC, a Maoist organisation was receiving money in the names of its leader, according to the charge sheet, a copy of which has been reviewed by HT.The agency alleged in its supplementary charge sheet against Agarwal that on his direction, payment of Rs 200 per metric ton of coal was made to coal transporters against work orders for the purpose of paying to TPC operatives and village committees for smooth functioning of his business. On the basis of the charge sheet, a Special NIA court in Ranchi issued a non-bailable warrant against Agarwal on January 17 after which NIA put his name and photograph in the most wanted list on its website. Agarwal’s lawyer Nitesh Rana filed an interlocutory application in the Jharkhand HC that by putting his name in most wanted list, the NIA damaged his reputation. Rana said: “My client has been falsely implicated in the case. He was an NIA witness till last year. In fact, the agency approached Special court in Ranchi in March 2019 for recording his statement under section 164 of CrPC as a witness. However, all of sudden, he was arraigned as an accused this year despite the fact that his name was not there in the FIR.” Rana said that they had challenged the charge sheet but the agency still went ahead and included his name in its most wanted list. And there it stayed.NIA officer, Subodh Sharma, said in an affidavit filed before the HC on November 3 that the agency removed Agarwal’s name from the list on October 21. The agency, however, defended its charges against Agarwal. NIA officials declined comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-wrongly-names-businessman-in-its-list-of-most-wanted/story-dGXYPr1y8Epf4ond12vX6H.html
16-11-2020||India||Communist by faith, actor Soumitra Chatterjee was critical of BJP, Left and Congress||Though politicians from all spectrums, including top national leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), mourned his death on Sunday, legendary actor Soumitra Chatterjee was a critic of the saffron force and believed that secular values in the country were getting eroded. He was equally critical of the Left parties and the Congress, if one goes by the last signed article he wrote before the Durga Puja. Often referred to as a renaissance man by Bengal’s intellectuals, Chatterjee was not a member of any political party but believed in communist ideology and occasionally wrote for the mouthpieces of the West Bengal CPI(M), including Ganashakti, a daily. His last article appeared in Ganashakti’s festive number published on the eve of Durga Puja. “I still believe that the Left path is the only alternative,” read the headline of the article in which the actor spoke about communalism, Ram Mandir, BJP, Congress and the Left parties. “I am surprised that the man during whose tenure Gujarat witnessed communal riots in 2002 is now ruling India. Indians are tolerating these people and voting them to power once again. I think the big reason is that people cannot find a powerful alternative. Or, they don’t know what to do,” Chatterjee wrote in the signed three-page article. He did not name anyone. Referring to construction of the new Ram Mandir, Chatterjee wrote, “So many people are dying during the pandemic and yet there is politics in the name of Ram. The funny part is that Ram, to whom a temple is being dedicated, is known to us since our childhood. He is popular for thousands of years. He is right before our eyes…” Writing a rather long portion on the cow vigilantes, the actor said, “How can someone put a diktat on what to eat?” Referring to demolition of the Babri Masjid, Chatterjee wrote, “I will always raise one question. Where were the political parties that could have stopped it? Speaking against the incident is not enough. People should have been brought together under their flags.” “The Congress ruled the country for 60 years. Many of its leaders are Rightists. Not openly but secretly. It is time to review the history,” wrote Chatterjee in the article. “It is my opinion that there are shortcomings in the evaluation of the Leftists as well. We had many differences with Gandhi and it still exists. But we cannot deny the honesty in his politics. How many politicians have that honesty today? This is making us rethink. The Leftists could have declared that Gandhi was the leader of the freedom movement but they had differences with him. Can’t this much be done?” Chatterjee wrote. BJP state vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar said his father and Chatterjee’s father were friends and the two families lived at Krishnanagar in Nadia district where the actor spent his childhood. “I knew him all my life. The height he achieved with his multi-faceted talent put him in a class above the rest. How can the BJP not show him respect just because he believed in Left ideology? I am in the BJP but he freely discussed many current issues with me. We also had our differences. Some things are above politics,” said Majumdar. Chatterjee’s final journey to the crematorium on Sunday evening was marked by the presence of the state’s top Left leaders. CPI(M) state secretary Suryakanta Mishra, Left Front chairman Biman Bose and others walked in a procession led by chief minister Mamata Banerjee while a few thousand fans of the departed screen icon followed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/communist-by-faith-actor-soumitra-chatterjee-was-critical-of-bjp-left-and-congress/story-ijwKbkzPbPZGSNviV9jw3O.html
16-11-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi was picnicking while PM Modi focused on Bihar polls: RJD’s Shivanand Tiwary||In the first open attack against the Congress for its poor show in the Bihar assembly polls, Rashtriya Janata Dal’s (RJD) national vice president Shivanand Tiwary on Sunday took aim at Rahul Gandhi for vacationing in Shimla amid the electoral battle even as Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed a dozen rallies.Tiwary, an outspoken leader, also slammed the Congress as “a non-serious player”.Rahul Gandhi addressed only eight rallies throughout the three-week long poll campaign for the three-phase election, which ended on November 7. The Congress won only 19 seats out of 70 seats it contested. It has led to heartburn in the RJD-led Grand Alliance (GA) that the coalition lost out to the ruling NDA by a slender margin to reach the majority figure of 122 MLAs because of the grand old party’s low strike rate in winning seats. “Rahul Gandhi is much younger than Prime Minister Narendra Modi. But Modi addressed more rallies than Gandhi. The Congress took as many as 70 seats in seat sharing but did not do 70 rallies. The party’s effort in the polls matching the number of seats it contested was totally lacking in Bihar this time. Gandhi was picnicking at his sister’s place in Shimla when elections were on. Is this the way a party is run? The Congress’s non-serious approach in running the party only gives room for making allegations that the national party is only helping the BJP,” he said. He also took potshots at the Congress leader for the party’s poor show in Uttar Pradesh assembly election in 2017 when Gandhi in alliance with Samajwadi Party( SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav had managed to win 54 seats out of 403 seats. The senior leader maintained the Congress top leadership was not adapting to changes or listening to even senior leaders for organisational overhaul highlighting how 23 senior party leaders including Ghulam Nabi Azad, Shashi Tharoor, Manish Tiwari had written to the party president Sonia Gandhi for bringing in sweeping changes. “But what happened? Nothing. There was no change in Congress’ way of functioning,” he said. Tiwary, who is former Rajya Sabha MP and former minister, also was unsparing about his attack against Priyanka Gandhi saying her focus in Uttar Pradesh as AICC general secretary has not cut much ice. “In the bye-election in four seats in UP recently, Congress candidates lost their deposits in four seats out of seven seats where polls were held. So how has Priyanka been able to shore up the party’s sagging poll fortunes in UP?” he asked. Despite his scathing criticism, Tiwary asserted his utterances against the Congress should not be perceived as that of a RJD national vice president’s alone but also as that of a senior politician of the state who has spent 50 years in politics for social justice, democratic values and civil rights. “We want the Congress to get stronger. Today, democracy is in danger especially the way civil liberties are being curbed and democratic voices are being suppressed in the country under the BJP rule. But I feel the Congress is not making any concerted effort in this direction. As a party, Congress must learn from the BJP of being accommodative towards allies like re-electing chief minister Nitish Kumar to the top post despite JD(U) winning only 43 seats and bringing on board smaller allies like VIP and HAM,” he said. He also said that even Bihar Congress leaders are now acknowledging there were big mistakes in candidate selection. “Congress leaders today staged dharna. A section of party leaders are now admitting it was wrong selection and faulty campaign that led to the party’s poor show,” Tiwary said. The RJD had been muted so far in blaming the Congress for the GA’s failure to reach the halfway mark with leader of the opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav saying all allies have worked collectively. But the CPI-ML (liberation), a major Left party in the state which won 12 seats as GA partner this time, has already put the Congress in the dock for the alliance’s debacle. “Congress had a low strike rate and it appears the party did not choose its candidates and carried the poll campaign as desired. The Congress must review its shortcomings,” said CPI ML general secretary Dipankar Bhattarcharya recently. The signs of internal wrangling in the GA are coming to the fore and the relations between RJD and Congress could now come under increasing strain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-was-picnicking-while-pm-modi-focused-on-bihar-polls-rjd-s-shivanand-tiwary/story-4O0MPmHpTJZ63Bu8GzV7QI.html
16-11-2020||India||25 held as Centre cracks down on GST fraud||The government has launched a major drive against Goods and Services Tax (GST) fraud and other defaults worth over Rs4,500 crore, and has arrested more than two dozen fraudsters in just four days, including the son of a Maharashtra-based politician, promoters and chartered accountants, two officials with direct knowledge of the matter said on Sunday.The Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI) crackdown on unscrupulous elements engaged in fake invoices to fraudulently avail themselves of GST input tax credit took place after a high-level meeting at the department of revenue on November 7, the officials said requesting anonymity.The simultaneous crackdown covered 28 cities: Delhi, Bengaluru, Mumbai, Ludhiana, Chennai, Nagpur, Kolkata, Gurugram, Jind, Ballabhgarh, Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Bhilai, Jodhpur, Hyderabad, Mathura, Raipur, Visakhapatnam, Jamshedpur, Patna, Imphal, Meerut, Guwahati, Pune, Siliguri, Bhopal and Bhubaneshwar.In the past four days, 25 people have been arrested, including two kingpins and two professionals, and some 350 cases have been booked for issuing fake invoices against 1,180 entities for availing and passing on the input tax credit (ITC) through fake invoices, non-existent or fly-by-night firms and circular trading, one of the officials cited above, working in the DGGI, said.The DGGI functions under the Central Board of Indirect Taxes & Customs (CBIC), an arm of the department of revenue in the Union finance ministry.Officials said while actual amount of fraud is still being ascertained, conservatively the estimated amount so far is in excess to Rs 4,500 crore.Giving details of the major cases, the first official said that the DGGI, Mumbai zone, has already arrested Sunil Gutte, son of a sitting MLA and sugar baron Ratnakar Gutte, along with his business associate Vijendra Ranka in a fake invoice scam worth Rs520 crore. HT reported it on November 12. “His company, Sunil Hi-tech Engineers Ltd, was engaged in availing and utilizing ITC based on bogus invoices, issued without any supply or receipt of goods or services,” the official said.The Mumbai zone has also booked another case against a company and their directors for passing on fake ITC amounting to Rs209 crore without supplying iron and steel articles. “It has also been found that they ran the racket of fake invoices for not only evading GST, but in a massive bank loan fraud of more than Rs2,500 crore,” he said.“Search and investigation are on to identify and apprehend the other persons who were involved in the racket and also the beneficiaries who have used the fake invoices to evade GST, income-tax, and do money laundering,” the second official said.“The drive against the tax evaders and ITC fraudsters, which started November 9, is expected to further intensify in the days to come and many more arrests will be done. Cases would also be investigated against the beneficiaries by the Enforcement Directorate for money laundering,” the first official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/25-held-as-centre-cracks-down-on-gst-fraud/story-9cis5kZf4sGzmVcw8Wt9lM.html
16-11-2020||India||Covid-19 spike in Capital may hit Winter Session||Rising cases of Covid-19 infections in the Capital might cast a shadow on the upcoming winter session of Parliament, said two functionaries with knowledge of the developments. There is a possibility that the session, which normally begins in November and ends in December, may get clubbed with the Budget session that usually begins in the last week of January. A senior functionary privy to meetings said that there was concern among MPs, and given the spread of the virus in the Capital, it might be untenable to allow Parliament to function. “The monsoon session was held after much deliberation and detail to logistics, hundreds of tests were conducted on a daily basis on the premises; measures were put in place to ensure physical distancing, extensive sanitization was carried out and yet there were several cases of infection. Now, with the cases increasing in Delhi there is a suggestion from officials as well as some members of Parliament to reconsider holding the winter session,” said the functionary quoted above. To be sure, the issue is yet to be formally discussed between the Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and Rajya Sabha chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu; but the suggestion to defer the session has been conveyed to secretariat officials, said the functionary.The winter session would have been the second parliamentary session, after the monsoon session, to take place during the Covid-19 pandemic. The monsoon session had to be cut short by eight days after cases of Covid-19 infection were reported among MPs, Union ministers and the staff on Parliament duty. In all, at least 50 people connected to Parliament tested positive. On the day the monsoon session started (September 14), new cases in Delhi averaged 4,001. In the last week, the daily average stands at 6,670.A second official said there was no pressing matter to be taken up during the winter session, or any ordinances that would otherwise lapse. “There is a possibility of a short session as some officials have pointed out that the government has to seek Parliament’s nod for additional spending in some sectors in supplementary demand for grants. However, there is precedence of a obtaining a post-facto ratification,” said the second official. PDT Acharya, a former Lok Sabha general secretary, said as per convention, Parliament meets for three sessions in a year, but there is no rule specifying the number of days or the period during which Parliament should meet. “As per the Constitution the only requirement is that gap between two sessions should not be more than six months,” he said. Acharya also said the government could explore the opting of online sessions as Parliament proceedings are open and there is no secrecy involved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-spike-in-capital-may-hit-winter-session/story-1SPYdxfzHARvtpkCpT2I0O.html
16-11-2020||Editorials||Managing the crisis in Delhi | HT Editorial||Delhi is in the middle of a serious public health crisis. Covid-19 has passed through various stages in the National Capital over the last nine months — but the third wave has happened amidst a predictable set of factors. Winter is more hospitable for the virus; festivities have enhanced mass interactions; there has been — bluntly put — reckless behaviour on the part of citizens, either due to fatigue or complacency; testing tilted towards the quick antigen tests rather than the more reliable RT-PCR mechanism, which undermined the ability to track and isolate cases; and the poor air quality hasn’t helped. All of this has led to a consistent spike in cases, with the Delhi government deeply worried about the management of the disease.It is against this backdrop that the Centre’s intervention — led by home minister Amit Shah — has infused a greater sense of urgency. To the credit of both governments, even though there was some jostling over who deserves greater appreciation, the Centre and Delhi government worked well together in dealing with the enhanced number of cases in the past. Mr Shah has now taken a spate of decisions, from improving medical infrastructure and enhancing hospital beds for patients with severe symptoms to doubling testing (it is important that the greater ratio of tests are RT-PCR and not antigen tests) and closer monitoring of those in home isolation. There are also murmurs of a partial reimposition of restrictions — though not a lockdown — in Delhi if the case count continues on the same trajectory.All of this is essential. But at the core, while the government has do its bit and ensure greater testing to track cases and adequate infrastructure to save lives, there is a great responsibility on citizens. As repetitive as this may sound, there is no alternative to limiting movement to essential activities, wearing masks, maintaining physical distance, and washing hands. This must happen voluntarily for both self-preservation and collective good. It is quite staggering to see people act against their self-interest. And if this persists, restrictions will inevitably come into force with great costs for the economy and livelihoods yet again. The Centre has done well to step in; the Delhi government must take all the help it can get and focus on implementing decisions under its remit; and citizens must reform their behaviour or be ready for more disruption.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/managing-the-crisis-in-delhi-ht-editorial/story-PbLGWYh1yobS98tz1qudYK.html
16-11-2020||Editorials||India’s trade policy: Keep China out | HT Editorial||The prime directive in India’s trade policy today is simple — sign nothing that opens the door to Chinese products. That is why New Delhi turned its back on the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) trade agreement, which was signed this weekend. India will pay a price in terms of global credibility. It is rare for a country to walk out of a free trade agreement (FTA) which it engaged with from the moment of inception. Yet, it is a powerful signal that India henceforth will adhere to a strategic trade policy that breaks with its past ad hoc mix of generous market access and arbitrary protectionism. And all of this comes with minimal economic costs as India has FTAs with all but three RCEP members.Any new trade policy, admittedly, remains a road under construction. Over the next few years, the Narendra Modi government must show it has an alternative trade strategy and the capacity to implement it. Some elements of a new policy are evident. One, the spadework for new bilateral trade deals with the United States, the United Kingdom and others that emphasise forward-looking areas such as digital sectors and immigration has begun. Two, India has joined nascent bodies such as the Supply Chain Resilience Initiative and begun holding talks for technology-investment coalitions in 5G telecom and pharmaceuticals. All these have the same principle in common — they exclude China. India’s new external economic policy is far from perfect. Its new bilateral investment draft treaty has no serious takers. On the other hand, many of its new domestic economic reforms mesh squarely with a 21st-century trade strategy. But the shadow of RCEP will only go away when India’s new trade posture results in something tangible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/india-s-trade-policy-keep-china-out/story-pgdrfiOt0Roo9dzLkLn3bL.html
16-11-2020||Editorials||Diwali pollution: Delhi-NCR exhibits irresponsibility, again | HT Editorial||On Diwali (Saturday), citizens of the Delhi-National Capital Region (NCR) area made a mockery of the National Green Tribunal (NGT)’s ban on the sale and use of all kinds of firecrackers in the region and health warnings by doctors (including the fact that there is a high risk of pollution exacerbating Covid-19) by bursting polluting crackers without any concern for fellow citizens or the environment. This activity and stubble burning had an immediate impact on the air quality index: It dipped to “severe” across the region on Saturday night. On Sunday, the weather improved with both wind speed and direction dispersing pollutants rapidly.On November 9, NGT banned the sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers in NCR from November 9 to 30, saying “celebration by crackers is for happiness and not to celebrate deaths and diseases”. This show of open defiance by citizens underlines two challenges: One, the governments of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana either don’t have the desire or the wherewithal (or both) to implement such a ban, and tackle overall pollution. And, second, the repeated warnings on the ill effects of pollution on health, have still not had the desired impact on citizen consciousness. This irresponsible streak was also visible in the crowds in the run-up to the festival, which is contributing to Delhi’s third wave of the pandemic. If both governments and citizens are so lackadaisical about air pollution and its ill effects, even in the midst of a raging climate crisis and a pandemic, the Delhi-NCR region will struggle to get the clean, blue skies, good air, and the quality of life that it should aspire to.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/diwali-pollution-delhi-ncr-exhibits-irresponsibility-again/story-mV0WMZkfUShocGF7NMRaRK.html
