18-11-2020||News||China wants a reset with Biden, but won’t change its approach||There has been much debate about why China was slow to acknowledge Joe Biden’s election victory. It took nearly a week after Biden’s victory speech for China’s foreign ministry to issue formal congratulations. Xi Jinping is among the few world leaders who still hasn’t spoken to Biden. Despite that, Beijing has been watching the unfolding political drama in the United States (US) with a sense of cautious optimism.This mood is a product of a few factors. First, Donald Trump will remain President till January 20. There is enough belief in Beijing that tougher steps on China could be part of Trump’s last act. For instance, as the election was unfolding, the State Department removed the East Turkestan Islamic Movement, a group that China blames for terrorism in Xinjiang, from its list of designated terrorist groups. This was followed by an executive order prohibiting American companies and individuals from investing in select Chinese companies identified as enabling the People’s Liberation Army. Trump’s commerce department is reportedly preparing harsher measures against China. Beijing also expects tougher action on human rights issues.Second, China’s official narrative throughout the pandemic has been about criticising the “evil intentions” and political motivations of some American politicians and officials, while emphasising China’s systemic strengths. This suggests there has been hope that political change in the US could help reset the relationship. But there also seems to be an acknowledgement that there is a bipartisan consensus in the US over competition with China. This is reflected in repeated polls of public and elite perceptions in the US. Writing in June, senior Chinese diplomat Fu Ying was clear. “The US has never given up its intent to overthrow the socialist system led by the Communist Party,” she argued, underscoring that Washington’s policies and rhetoric had only reaffirmed this belief. Biden inherits not just Trump’s China policies but also this prevailing political sentiment.This leads to the third factor. Biden will take charge at a time when the political divide in the US is deeper than ever. Even in defeat, Trump garnered over 72 million votes. That’s more than Barack Obama’s historic 2008 tally. To some in Beijing, Trump’s popularity and contestation of the results represent the “degradation” of the US system. For others, the tumult has strengthened the belief that the US is a waning power, which is likely to continue to pursue a confrontational China policy. There’s also a sense that Biden will undo some of Trump’s policies when it comes to multilateral trade, the climate crisis, and international institutions. These could create opportunities for cooperation but also present complex, new challenges.Moreover, there’s a belief that Biden will repair ties and coordinate China policy with traditional US allies. For instance, he reportedly told Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga that the security of the Senkaku Islands would fall under the ambit of their security alliance. European Union foreign policy chief Josep Borrell, meanwhile, was quick to call for cooperation with Biden’s team to craft a “coherent and robust China stance”. Little wonder then that Mei Xinyu, a researcher at China’s commerce ministry, cautioned his WeChat followers that Biden’s win might not be a win for China. None of this will be straightforward though. US allies and partners have a complex set of interests that bind them to China and have been timid on human rights issues.So what’s China done while waiting and watching? Primarily, it has doubled down on its chosen trajectory, girding up for future challenges. As votes were being counted in the US, the Communist Party unveiled new development plans. These reaffirmed its ideological positioning, Xi’s leadership, the need for self-reliance in innovation, and urgency of military modernisation. Beijing also deepened control over Hong Kong. There is little self-reflection that Beijing’s policies have and continue to contribute to external hostility. In essence, China views a reset with Biden as welcome, but is unlikely to change its policies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/china-wants-a-reset-with-biden-but-won-t-change-its-approach/story-DxLfYpjXnXfZawCh3mBDcL.html
18-11-2020||News||Al Qaeda is battered, but don’t rejoice yet||Over the past few weeks, amid the global chaos of the Covid-19 pandemic and the United States (US) elections, a series of events reportedly eliminated a major section of al Qaeda’s top leadership. The terror group was founded by the once most-wanted man on earth, Osama bin Laden, who was killed at Abbottabad, Pakistan, in a US raid in 2011. According to a yet-uncorroborated claim, al Qaeda’s chief, Egypt-born Aymen al-Zawahiri, who took over after bin Laden, passed away two months ago from natural causes. Reports also surfaced that one of his closest aides, Abu Mohammed al-Masri, was killed in Tehran, Iran, where he was living under a false identity, purportedly by an Israeli hit squad in August. Prior to al-Masri and Zawahiri, bin Laden’s son, Hamza bin Laden, who was being groomed to take over the group, was killed in a US operation in 2019. Late last month, another senior al-Qaeda leader, Hussam Abdur Rauf, head of the group’s media operations, was killed by Afghan forces in Taliban-controlled territories. Only one senior al-Qaeda leader’s name is being discussed as a replacement for Zawahiri after al-Masri’s killing, and that is of Saif al-Adel, also from Egypt. After 19 years of the US war against terror, the past few years have been comparatively successful in decimating figures in the al Qaeda leadership, starting with Osama bin Laden himself, arguably fragmenting structures and hierarchies. Like any other organisation, jihadist groups are equally, if not more, prone to internal strife around power, ideology and control. The killing of al Qaeda leaders has now sparked a debate on what the future holds for the once-feared terror group, a reputation overtaken by the threat posed by the so-called Islamic State (IS) today. While some argue that an imminent disintegration of al Qaeda after Zawahiri may be on the cards, there are other more radical ideas like that of a potential merger between IS and al Qaeda. Under Zawahiri, al Qaeda was often seen as a bureaucratic, old-school and somewhat stoic jihadist movement, especially in comparison to IS, which took over much of the narrative, threat and global attention since 2014 with its pace. It became synonymous with deadly levels of violence, control of territory and robust online propaganda which attracted hundreds of foreigners, including a few from India. In comparison, Zawahiri, known for his dense monologues, was seen as too bookish to attract a new breed of jihadists. Arguably, the last al Qaeda leader, along with bin Laden, who was charismatic was Anwar al-Awlaki, killed in 2011 in Yemen. His lectures on Islam that were narrated with great script and panache still find many takers today. The idea behind a merger of IS and al Qaeda comes from the fact that the secession of al Qaeda in Iraq from al-Qaeda Central created ISIS. Ideologue Abu Musab al-Zarqawi had then fallen out with bin Laden and gone his own way, along with Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, who as IS chief, was killed last year. However, today, al Qaeda is arguably playing second fiddle to IS as it hangs on to its legacy. IS is able to make continuous claims of attacks across geographies, from Afghanistan to the African Sahel and Europe to Sri Lanka. Meanwhile, al Qaeda appears destined to hide behind the protection of the Taliban in Afghanistan, which itself is negotiating with the US, and theoretically could throw al-Qaeda under the bus or puppeteer it significantly to achieve its larger political aims that start and end with Afghan territory. However, it would be a mistake to write off al Qaeda just yet. The group has proved its penchant for survival over the years. The fact that it has seemingly managed to cut a deal for safe haven in Iran, the seat of Shia Islam, as a Sunni insurgency, speaks volumes for the prevalence of broader geopolitical interests over sectarian fissures. Also, it must not be forgotten that the argument of depleted hierarchy today also applies to IS, whose new leadership remains largely nameless and faceless. Nonetheless, a significantly depleted al Qaeda in a post-Zawahiri era may be a welcome enough development. This, however, does not change the fact that as a group it remains much more grounded for a long-haul return if more structural concerns in global counter-terror thinking and policies are not addressed over time. Where IS came from is a good enough reason to not underestimate the fact that even in jihadist groups, it is often that the tortoise that eventually wins the race while the hare gets most of the attention before its eventual downfall. Kabir Taneja is Fellow, Strategic Studies Programme, Observer Research Foundation. He is the author of The ISIS Peril: The World’s Most Feared Terror Group and its Shadow on South Asia The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/al-qaeda-is-battered-but-don-t-rejoice-yet/story-jbNi1bNAcEQv5YqyRWzibK.html
18-11-2020||News||Soumitra Chatterjee: An extraordinary star rooted in the ordinary||When Soumitra Chatterjee passed away, actress Aparna Sen lamented that “Bengal’s cultural sky had lost its brightest star”. As actor, writer, poet, playwright, painter and elocutionist, Chatterjee was an artist extraordinaire. His readings and recitations brought Bengali literary accomplishments closer to the people while his films over the last six decades became the warp and weave of our lives. When he was taken to the hospital, Chatterjee was working in a film, ironically about his own life. At 23, Chatterjee had made his debut in Satyajit Ray’s Apur Sansar (1959), the concluding film of the famous Apu Trilogy. He had been considered for Apu’s role in Aparajito (1954) but had looked older than the part. So Chatterjee joined the search for a younger Apu. He would later learn that Ray had already started planning the third film because he had found his adult Apu. Thus began the Ray-Chatterjee collaboration of world classics such as Teen Kanya (1961), Abhijan (1962), Charulata (1964), Aranyer Din Ratri (1970) Asani Sanket (1973) and Ghare Baire (1984). The widely-divergent protagonists that Chatterjee played in these films were much acclaimed, but his most popular role was as Pheluda, Ray’s fictional detective, in Sonar Kella (1974) and Joi Baba Phelunath (1978). As we devoured the books as young adults, we wondered whether Ray would ever make a Pheluda film and if he did, who would play the sleuth? One day, Chatterjee walked into Ray’s house to find that the filmmaker was making an illustration of Pheluda. Curious to know who would play the part, and perhaps hoping against hope, Chatterjee remarked that Pheluda resembled Ray who replied, “Oh, I thought he looks like you.” Chatterjee maintained that Pheluda — quick, intelligent and encyclopedic in knowledge — was Ray’s secret self. In the 1960s, when Chatterjee was acting in Ray films that were travelling to film festivals across the world, he was also Bengal’s rising popular star. Some of his best films during the decade included Tapan Sinha’s Khudita Pashan (1960) and Jhinder Bandi (1961), an adaptation of The Prisoner of Zenda; Ajoy Kar’s Saat Pake Bandha (1963), Barnali (1963) Kanch Kata Hire (1964), Parineeta (1969) and Mrinal Sen’s Akash Kusum (1965). With Tanuja as his heroine, he acted in Teen Bhubaner Pare (Ashutosh Bandhopadhyay, 1969) with its hit song “Jibone ki Pabona” (“Will I Never get in Life…”). That Chatterjee, in just one decade, should have acted in such a diversity of memorable films is enough for him to be conferred the title of “Mahanayak”, the great hero, along with Uttam Kumar. Influenced by Ray, Chatterjee introduced an understated style of acting in popular Bengali films. He made a break with the dramatic and stylised acting that Suchitra Sen had made her hallmark. Nor did he subscribe to Uttam Kumar and Suchitra Sen’s notion of stardom. With great affection, both stars would advise Chatterjee not to make himself so easily accessible as stars needed to cultivate a mystery around them. But Chatterjee’s stardom was extraordinary in that it was rooted in the ordinary. He played characters that lived close to our lives. Shyam Benegal had identified this as the actor’s special talent; his ability to become someone recognisable, thereby offering to the audience an extraordinarily intimate level of identification. Chatterjee often reflected on the idea of death as the only inevitability of life. He spoke of the gradual debilitation of the body and the existential wonder that was death. Someone had asked him, what would you do in another life? His first instinct was to choose this life again. But then he decided that he would choose what he could not do in this life. During an interview, Chatterjee recounted this conversation and concluded: “I will be happy to just play with water, earth and air.” Those of us whose lives were enriched by living under the same sky as him, will no doubt feel the presence of Soumitra Chatterjee around us — in water, earth and air. Shohini Ghosh is Sajjad Zaheer Professor, AJK Mass Communication Research Centre, Jamia Millia Islamia The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/soumitra-chatterjee-an-extraordinary-star-rooted-in-the-ordinary/story-dygaqW87nYJwonDzjzNGdM.html
18-11-2020||News||The purpose of TV media measurement||Over a month after the story about mischief in television ratings broke, we are still in a lather about Television Rating Points (TRPs), bar-o-meters and the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC). Let us, instead, look beyond the measurement system and deal with what people actually do with the petabytes of data which BARC publishes. Over 500 channels are licensed by the ministry of information and broadcasting. In addition, there are, at least, an equal number of services offered by distribution platforms. Typically labelled value-added services, they cover everything from classic cinema, specific genres of music, health and wellness, real estate, personal finance and, increasingly, education. These services are usually advertising-free and, given that they operate within the Distribution Service Operator (DSO)’s subscription-based walled garden, they are entirely outside BARC’s measurement.Licence rules allow broadcasters to utilise no more than 12 minutes of advertising inventory or 24 spots of 30 seconds per hour. This norm is routinely violated. About 16 hours per day, from 7 am to 11 pm, is considered saleable; overnight inventories are often given to telemarketing slots. Thus, a channel can sell 192 minutes of inventory or 384 spots per day. This is 192,000 saleable spots per day across 500 channels. When a brand decides to buy television inventory for a campaign, it begins with two objectives: One, reach, which is a minimum proportion of the target audience which must be exposed to the campaign; two, frequency, or the number of times a member of the target audience will be exposed to it. Given that audiences are scattered across such a wide raft of choices, both these objectives require buying lots of spots. Typical plans, for even small brands with modest objectives, will run across dozens of spots, across many channels. National fast moving consumer goods brands run thousands of spots in a single campaign period.To invoke a metaphor, a regular-sized grape weighs five gm. That’s about 200 grapes per kilo, though it is never that many, because the twigs and stems make up around 10% of the weight. So, you get about 180 grapes per kg. How do you buy them? This is what I do. Pick one off the bunch, rub it on my shirt to get the superficial dirt off and check how sweet or tart it is. Check that there are no overripe or damaged grapes. Pick a bunch and ask the vendor to weigh it. There is no practical way of checking every single grape, is there? When you get back home, you will usually find that there will be the odd offending article which missed scrutiny. But that does no discredit to your purchase.This, more or less, is how television inventory is also bought. When you procure hundreds, or thousands, of spots, it is impossible to tell if some of them will fail to deliver with your audience. Media plans, like grape-buying, work on averages. And the empirical fact, that those 192,000 spots are usually sold out most days, suggests that plans deliver reach and frequency as planned and procured.So how does television inventory transaction work?. Television stations sell advertising inventory in three modes. One, fixed spots where an advertisement will appear on a specific programme at a specific time on a specific day. Two, run of day part (RODP) where an ad will appear within a time band. This could be morning, afternoon, evening or night. Three, run of schedule (ROS) when the ad will appear on the channel at a time and day of the broadcaster’s choice.Fixed spots are expensive. ROS on the same channel is deeply discounted. Most media procurement, and this is true across all genres of content, is done on an RODP or ROS basis. In the news genre, for instance, even the leading players sell as much as three-fourths of their inventory on these terms of trade. (Anyone outside the top 10 sells almost exclusively on effective rate ER — a global average of all pricing on the entire inventory).How, then, do media planners know what the buy will secure, in terms of reach or frequency? Because they use averages across the day, or even week, to pick their media choices. Indeed, when the rubber hits the road, it devolves further. A range of channels within a given genre is identified, all of which meet threshold standards on audience profile and impressions delivered. After this, the buyer, usually different from the planner, and far more hard-nosed, gets down to the business of ruthless negotiation. The buyer is not put off if a specific channel is intransigent; there is always another, more pliant one, waiting. So, here’s what is happening. BARC is actually trying to measure the weight of every individual grape. But, by the time they change hands, buyers and sellers are only interested in their average weight, sweetness, tartness and colour, across single transactions which account for quintals. Media measurement plays many useful roles in the lives of all stakeholders. However, it should be abundantly clear that the single-most important application is in pricing advertising inventory. For which, a system which did nothing more than give weekly averages of reach and frequency, by channel, would not perform much worse than the level of detail which is on offer at this time.If you are furious with this suggestion, the next time you buy a kilo of sabudana, check each of the grains individually. Paritosh Joshi is a media professional with a keen interest in audience measurementThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-purpose-of-tv-media-measurement/story-TRoV85ch218S0cffSnQ4ZP.html
18-11-2020||Delhi||Gahlot flags off inspection vehicles for women safety on buses||Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot on Wednesday flagged off 20 vehicles that would be used to conduct inspections by teams of officials to ensure better security for women on Delhi buses.The 20 vans would ply across the city and conduct inspections of buses. They will undertake periodic rounds of the bus terminals, the government said in a statement.Gahlot also inaugurated a bus pass centre exclusively for women commuters at the Sarojini Nagar bus depot on Wednesday.“We have deployed a large number of bus marshals -- many of them women -- in Delhi buses to ensure women are safe. These measures are meant to scale up our efforts to ensure women safety,” said Gahlot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/gahlot-flags-off-inspection-vehicles-for-women-safety-on-buses/story-5kwpmYeypW82rDmlYvTqmI.html
18-11-2020||City||CM, Dy CM to inaugurate LU’s centenary celebrations today||LUCKNOW Chief minister Yogi Adityanath and deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma will inaugurate Lucknow University’s weeklong centennial year celebrations beginning Thursday.As per schedule, students will recite the ‘Saraswati Vandana’ and ‘kulgeet’ of the university to mark the inaugural event to be held in Malviya Hall in the morning.This will be followed by a heritage walk across LU’s old campus at 12:30pm. The university administration has made arrangements for sanitisers and masks at all its events to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Seating arrangements are also being made keeping in mind social distancing protocols.A literary event will be held after the heritage walk. Bollywood actor Anupam Kher is expected to join the seminar virtually. The day will conclude with performances by singer Malini Awasthi and poet Yatindra Mishra in a program titled ‘Awadh ki roshan chowki’ that will begin at 5:30pm.Considering the Covid-19 situation, the organisers have extended invites to less than 300 guests. They have also made arrangements to broadcast all the events live on social media platforms. The link if the online events will also be shared with the guests to encourage online viewing.University to open its museums for publicVisitors will get an opportunity to see rare artifacts as Lucknow University will open its four museums on the campus for the public.The museums in zoology, anthropology, geology and Ancient India history departments will be open from November 20 to 25.These museums have fossils, skeletons of extinct animals, ancient artifacts and other treasures.“We have made proper arrangements for visitors. Experts will be present at the museum to help guests. Arrangements have also been made to ensure safety of visitors in times of Covid-19 pandemic,” said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cm-dy-cm-to-inaugurate-lu-s-centenary-celebrations-today/story-3pajskKtJQRpeB5h7itiuL.html
18-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh GMCH protest: Services of six sanitation workers terminated||Services of six representatives of sanitation workers at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, have been terminated by the outsourced agency for “irresponsible behaviour” as the strike for Diwali bonus entered third day on Wednesday.“It has been found that you are instigating other employees to join your nefarious activities and have been threatening and manhandling other safai karamcharies so that they do not provide their services even in the emergency/ICU wards... This kind of behaviour at work can result in putting lives of patients at risk,” a letter by Kulwant Singh Security Agency to the agitating employees reads. Major Kulwant Singh (retd), proprietor of the agency, said it was an important measure as patient services were being affected due to the strike. He said he was acting on the directions of Dr Jasbinder Kaur, officiating director-cum-principal of the hospital, for ensuring smooth services. Meanwhile, the higher authorities have rejected the demand to grant any bonus to the employees, citing there is no provision for it. “The view of the legal remembrancer was sought. The bonus cannot be granted to employees of organisations established not for purposes of profit, which is the case here as well,” Anil Moudgil, public relation officer of the institute said. Meanwhile, services in the hospital remained affected with only 15 to 20 workers deputed in the emergency area. Om Kailash, chairman of GMCH-32 Safai Karamchari Union, whose service has been terminated, said the agitation will continue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-gmch-protest-services-of-six-sanitation-workers-terminated/story-nryOY1qQ2awJyLjWe3ZPdO.html
18-11-2020||Chandigarh||Privatisation of Chandigarh power dept: Adani, Tata, 7 other firms show interest||Nine firms have expressed interest in bidding for privatisation of electricity distribution in Chandigarh.UT adviser Manoj Parida said the request for proposal was issued to nine intended bidders, including Torrent Power Limited, Adani Transmission Limited, Tata Power Company Limited, GMR Generation Asset Limited, India Power Corporation Limited, DNH Power Distribution Corporation Limited, NTPC Electricity Supply Limited, Sterlite Power and CESC Limited on the payment of ₹5 lakh each.These firms can now examine in greater details different aspects of electricity distribution and performance of the UT electricity department. Whether they actually participate in the bidding process will be confirmed later. The Centre had directed the administration to privatise electricity distribution. The Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission had also issued directions to the administration for restructuring the department, mandatory under the Electricity Act, 2003.Thereon, the administration on November 9 had invited bids for privatisation of the department, which primarily involves the distribution of supply. An empowered committee has been constituted to oversee the process. The administration has assured the central government that the process will be completed by the year end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/privatisation-of-chandigarh-power-dept-adani-tata-7-other-firms-show-interest/story-vjY0oZ26tPmX8WN7vQ5koK.html
18-11-2020||Chandigarh||Delimitation: Chandigarh MC wards set to increase||Wards in the Chandigarh municipal corporation are set to increase with the UT administration starting the process of fresh delimitation.Deputy commissioner Mandip Singh Brar will be issuing a public notification by next week, inviting objections to the delimitation process. The notification will specify the total number of wards, including the new ones created and their boundaries.MC elections are slated to be held in September-October 2021. “The DC has held several rounds of meetings with district and senior UT officials. After final consent from UT administrator VP Singh Badnore, the new MC wards will be notified and objections invited. It is expected to be done by November end,” said a senior UT official, who didn’t want to be named. After the objections are submitted and considered, the final delimitation of wards will be notified by the DC. The entire process is expected to take a couple of months. The last delimitation of wards was done in 2006 on the basis of the 2001 census. While the process for another delimitation was initiated in 2015 on the basis of the 2011 census, but it wasn’t completed as the issue of inclusion of all villages in the MC was still pending. At the time, the proposal was to increase the number of wards to 33.Currently 26 wardsCurrently, there are 26 wards in the MC, which cover sectors and nine villages. The process becomes crucial in the wake of the addition of 13 new villages under its jurisdiction last year.These villages are Bahlana, Raipur Khurd, Raipur Kalan, Makhan Majra, Daria, Mauli Jagran, Kishangarh, Kaimbwala, Khuda Ali Sher, Khuda Jassu, Khuda Lahora, Sarangpur and Dhanas. They have a population of more than 50,000.“All wards currently don’t have uniform population. This will be corrected after the delimitation process is completed, while incorporating the recently added villages,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/delimitation-chandigarh-mc-wards-set-to-increase/story-hsKDXMgdneUJ8akaCix4YO.html
18-11-2020||City||Focused sample-testing drive in UP from November 19 to 30||Thirty deaths across UP take fatality count to 7,441, six succumb to Covid in LkoLUCKNOW To intensify the fight against Covid-19, the state government has decided to roll out the second phase of the focused sample-testing drive from November 19 to 30. “Sample tests will be carried in the slums on November 19, 20 and 21, in temporary and permanent prisons on November 22, in boys and girls shelter homes on November 23, in old age homes and women shelter homes on November 24, for street vendors on November 25, for teachers and staff of classes 9 to 12 on November 26, in government and private offices on November 27, in market areas and weekly markets across the state on November 28, 29 and 30,” said additional chief secretary, information, Navneet Sehgal and additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad while addressing a joint press conference. To check the spread of the coronavirus infection, the second phase of the focused sample testing will be launched from Thursday, they said.Earlier, a 16-day focused sample test drive was organized across the state from October 29 to November 9. The focus was on people who came in contact with a large number of people. These included auto-rickshaw drivers, rickshaw pullers, mehndi and beauty parlour staff, sweet shop staff, security staff of malls, staff of electronics shops and vehicle showrooms, retail shop keepers, people working in fruit and vegetable markets.The data released by the state government showed that Covid cases increased in Lucknow, Kanpur, Prayagarj, Ghaziabad, Gautam Buddh Nagar and Meerut. Lucknow reported 294 fresh cases on Wednesday, Kanpur 117, Prayagraj 145, Ghaziabad 134, Gautam Buddh Nagar 179 and Meerut 260. “The surge of Covid cases in Delhi has led to increase in cases in bordering districts, whereas the cases have declined in the remaining districts,” the officers said.Thirty deaths were reported across UP on Wednesday, taking the fatality count to 7,441. Six deaths were reported in Lucknow, three in Meerut, two each in Prayagraj and Varanasi, one death each was reprted in Kanpur, Bareilly, Jhansi, Saharanpur, Muzaffarnagar, Hardoi, Gonda, Ghazipur, Chandauli and Bahraich.During the last 24 hours, 2,390 fresh Covid cases were reported and 2,529 patients were discharged after recovery. There were 21,954 active Covid cases in UP, while 9,672 people were in home isolation, 2,163 were admitted to private hospitals. The remaining patients were in government hospitals. As many as 4.87 lakh people had recovered in the state since the start of the pandemic in March, taking the recovery rate to 94.31%, the officers said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/focused-sample-testing-drive-in-up-from-november-19-to-30/story-h2wSNGHP0FAqFdyWOjvlEN.html
18-11-2020||Chandigarh||Allotment of houses to Chandigarh MC staffers goes online||From now on, employees of the Chandigarh municipal corporation have to submit online application for allotment of government houses. Launching the eAwas scheme on Wednesday, mayor Raj Bala Malik said employees can submit their application for allotment, change and mutual exchange of MC pool houses through the website www.eawas.mcchandigarh.gov.in.MC commissioner KK Yadav said manual allotment has been done away with and existing applications pending with the house allotment committee are “hereby quashed”.The form has to be filled in and forwarded by the head of department/office. Applications received on or before 20th of a month will be considered for allotment in the succeeding month. Those received after that will be considered for allotment after the succeeding month.Yadav said the committee will examine the form, and after considering all eligible ones, the seniority list will be updated every month on the website. Report of vacant government houses fit for allotment/occupation in the MC pool will also be updated online.Bidding systemThe allotment will be made through a bidding system every month.Eligible applicants existing in the current seniority list will submit maximum three options/bids for allotment of a house of the type applied for from 1st to 8th of every month.The allotment of houses will be made to the seniormost applicant keeping in view their bids as per seniority list. The applicants who are not allotted houses after bidding will have the option to submit/exercise their bid from 1st to 8th of the succeeding month of the calendar year. Intimation of allotment to successful applicant will be given through SMS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/allotment-of-houses-to-chandigarh-mc-staffers-goes-online/story-HtDc5hL2aJyaJSIxfFKWoJ.html
18-11-2020||Chandigarh||At 145, Chandigarh records highest Covid cases in 45 days||Chandigarh recorded highest number of Covid-19 cases since October 3, as 145 people tested positive for the virus on Wednesday. The total has reached 16,167, of which 1,081 cases are still active. The toll too climbed to 253 as a 65-year-old man from Sector 46 succumbed.With 89 patients being discharged, the number of those cured reached 14,833. In the neighbouring Mohali district, one person died while 134 tested positive. Mohali city continues to account for most of the cases with 99 fresh infections. As many as 13,896 people have tested positive in the district so far, of whom 12,540 have recovered, including 96 discharged on Wednesday, and 260 have died. The active case count stands at 1,096.Panchkula, too, reported one death besides 27 new cases, which took the toll and infection tally to 120 and 8,049, respectively.The deceased has been identified as a 68-year-old man from Pinjore. While 7,566 patients have recovered so far, 363 cases are still active. Advisory issued against travel to DelhiTwo days after the UT health department started testing travellers from Delhi at ISBT, Sector 17, the department has issued an advisory asking residents of Chandigarh to avoid travelling to high-risk zones such as Delhi NCR.The probability of getting infected increases substantially when people are in these high-risk zones, the department stated, adding that people coming back from Delhi should follow precautions and report for testing voluntarily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/at-145-chandigarh-records-highest-covid-cases-in-45-days/story-njS4QTmgRyinffbuYDXS5K.html
18-11-2020||Chandigarh||Tenancy Act: Chandigarh admn sets ball rolling for rent authority||Turning down the suggestion of lawyers and tenant associations to keep tenancy related cases under the purview of judiciary instead of forming a rent authority, the Chandigarh administration has sent the draft Tenancy Act 2020 to the Centre.Confirming the development, Uma Shankar Gupta, additional secretary, estates, said: “After compiling the list of suggestions received and administration’s comments thereon, we have sent the draft of the Chandigarh Tenancy Act 2020 to the Centre for its approval.”The Act proposes to establish a framework for the regulation of tenancy matters (residential and commercial) and to balance the rights and responsibilities of landlords and tenants, including fast adjudication process for resolution of disputes.The key provision of the proposed Act is setting up of a rent authority, which will have exclusive jurisdiction over tenancy issues. All rent agreements will have to be submitted to this authority. The landowner and the tenant will have to separately file the particulars within a month of signing the agreement. Currently, these can be registered at the sub-registrar’s office.Power of adjudication key to the ActThe authority will adjudicate all disputes between a landlord and tenant. Currently, rent-related disputes are resolved by civil courts, where the pendency rate is high. Appeals against authority’s orders will be made in the rent court, headed by a senior judicial officer, and the case will have to be disposed of within 60 days. Against a rent court order, an appeal can be filed with the rent tribunal. “There was a suggestion from the lawyers’ body, objecting to the creation of the rent authority having exclusive adjudication powers over tenancy disputes and issues. The body suggested that the tenancy issues should be kept under the purview of civil courts only,” said Gupta.Commenting on the suggestion of lawyers, the administration has responded that the rent authority’s adjudication powers are necessitated as it would speed up the resolution of tenancy related disputes, and it is central to the creation of the new Tenancy Act. “All disputes between tenants and landlords will be decided in a timebound manner — within three months — by the Rent Authority. Here, simplified procedure will also ensure speedy relief to people,” it was stated.The Commercial Tenants’ Association in its objections to the draft Act had stated that the creation of a rent authority and rent court to be presided over by an executive officer was totally in contravention of the already existing procedure and adjudication of litigation.The proposed Act stipulates: “Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, in the areas to which this Act extends, only the rent court and no civil court shall have jurisdiction, to hear and decide the applications relating to disputes between landowner and tenant.”Making Act retrospective among 31 suggestionsThe proposed Act is only prospective in nature and will cover tenancy agreements that have taken place after it implementation.The draft Act states: “No person shall, after the commencement of this Act, let or take on rent any premises except by an agreement in writing.”The administration received 31 suggestions and objections to the draft Act.One suggestion was about making the Act retrospective. The administration has left it to the Centre to take a call on this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/tenancy-act-chandigarh-admn-sets-ball-rolling-for-rent-authority/story-bd8lSAhcbjXPxIp5G4Dx1M.html
18-11-2020||City||Bus rams into subway wall at Kamothe, near Mumbai; 16 passengers injured||Around 16 persons were injured after a speeding bus crashed along the Sion-Panvel Highway in Kamothe, on Wednesday morning. The private bus was headed towards Badlapur from Kolhapur.The bus carrying over 25 passengers met with an accident at 6am when it reached the Sion-Panvel highway underpass, near Kalamboli bridge.“The driver was speeding along the highway. We suspect that he missed the speed breaker, lost control over the vehicle and crashed into the underpass wall,” said Anil Patil, sub-inspector at Kamothe police station.The driver Shankar Kamble, 45, has sustained grievous injuries. A second driver and a cleaner also sustained minor injuries.The injured persons were admitted at MGM Hospital in Kamothe. Most passengers have suffered minor head injuries and contusions, police said. Investigating officers said that based on prima facie inquiries, it appeared that Kamble was well-rested. Police have registered a case against Kamble for rash and negligent driving along with causing hurt. He will be placed under arrest after getting discharged, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bus-rams-into-subway-wall-at-kamothe-near-mumbai-16-passengers-injured/story-Z2MzH8u3CuYpOYJt15QDBJ.html
18-11-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab minister lays foundation stone for ITI in Ludhiana’s Raikot||Punjab minister Charanjit Singh Channi laid the foundation stone of Shri Guru Gobind Singh Industrial Training Institute at Bassian village in Raikot on Wednesday.While addressing the gathering, Channi said that 19 ITIs are being set up in different areas of the state including Raikot, Khera, Amloh, Shri Hargobindpur, Bhikhi, Dinanagar, Patran, Ghanaur, Lohian, Gandiwind, Mehraj, Ram Tirath, Shri Chamkaur Sahib, Balachaur, Machhiwara, Mamdot and Kharar.“The institute is being set up with the efforts of Fatehgarh Sahib MP Amar Singh at a cost of around Rs 7 crore,” he added. The minister said that an estimate has been prepared for addition/alteration of this building at an approximate cost of Rs 3.39 crore. He added that the remaining amount of around Rs 3.6 crore will be spent on purchasing machinery to ensure the ITI operates smoothly. The department has sent a case for creation of 35 posts including principal after getting approval from Punjab finance department.The classes are likely to start within a year and the ITI will have a capacity of 220 youth who will get skill training in areas including computer hardware and networking, electronics mechanics, machinist, welder (GMAW & GTAW) and surveyor. A skill development centre and apprenticeship scheme centre at this ITI will also be started eventually.In his address, Amar Singh said that this ITI will help a large number of youth from the area get industrial training. He said that several industries are coming up in Raikot area the institute will help in employment generation. He said the syllabus will be tailor-made for the requirements of the industry so that all students get employment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-minister-lays-foundation-stone-for-iti-in-ludhiana-s-raikot/story-zpaDBWHxM5Yd8NVZcOFUhN.html
18-11-2020||Chandigarh||Woman, kin booked for duping Ludhiana man of ₹10 lakh on pretext of taking son abroad||A Sangrur woman and her family members were booked on Tuesday for duping a city resident of Rs 10 lakh on the pretext of marrying his son and settling down abroad with him. The FIR has been lodged based on the statement of Gurmeet Singh, a resident of Rurka village. The accused have been identified as Mandeep Kaur of Dehleez Khurd village in Sangrur, her brother Narinder Singh, father Amarjit Singh and sister Amandeep Kaur.Gurmeet stated in his complaint that his son, Arvinder Singh, wanted to settle down abroad. Meanwhile, he had come in contact with Mandeep in 2018, who claimed that she had obtained a band score of six in IELTS and applied for a study visa to Canada. She said that if Gurmeet bears all her expenses to study abroad, she will marry his son and take him to Canada on a spouse visa.Gurmeet added that he had given Rs 10 lakh to Mandeep and solemnised her marriage with his son on July 14, 2018. Meanwhile, Mandeep’s visa application was rejected she returned to her parent’s house.He alleged that she received Rs 8.5 lakh as refund, but never returned the money, following which he filed a complaint.ASI Bhisham Dev, who is investigating the case, said that an FIR under Sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property)., 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused following an investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/woman-kin-booked-for-duping-ludhiana-man-of-10-lakh-on-pretext-of-taking-son-abroad/story-f3IUZ8O7FEBzcaN06yx5rO.html
18-11-2020||Mumbai||Locals to be suspended between Kalyan and Dombivli on Saturday, Sunday to launch girder of Patripool bridge||Suburban local train services will be suspended between Dombivli and Kalyan railway stations on Saturday and Sunday, as the Central Railway (CR) will be launching girders for the Patripool road overbridge (ROB) at Kalyan railway station. On Saturday (November 21), the train services will be suspended from 9.50am to 2.15pm, while on Sunday (November 22), the train services will be suspended from 9.50am to 1.50pm. The railways will undertake four blocks for the launching of girders for the Patripool ROB. The block will be conducted between 10.15am and 2.15pm. “Special local train services will be operated between Kalyan and Karjat/Kasara railway stations and between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and Kurla/Thane/Dombivli railway stations during the block.” said a senior Central Railway official. Few outstation trains will also be diverted. Bridge between Bhayander and Naigaon to be ready soonThe British era bridge built in 1983 between Bhayander and Naigaon railway stations will be dismantled by Western Railway. The bridge was auctioned in February. The dismantling work of the bridge started in November 5 and will be completed by November 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/locals-to-be-suspended-between-kalyan-and-dombivli-on-saturday-sunday-to-launch-girder-of-patripool-bridge/story-X10nH6Stj8e20a8EnkG5xJ.html
18-11-2020||Chandigarh||HC refuses to intervene in Mohali realtor’s pleas against consumer commission orders||The Punjab and Haryana high court has refused to intervene in five pleas filed by a Mohali realtor, WWICS, challenging the state consumer disputes redressal commission orders. The realtor had sought quashing of September 24 orders passed against it, arguing that the Punjab commission did not have complete quorum. The realtor had stated that the consumer panel bench comprised only the president even as it is required to have two members. However, the high court bench of justice Anil Kshetarpal, while disposing of the pleas, said the firm has effective statutory alternative remedy of filing an appeal before the national commission instead. The bench also said that “the petitioner does not deserve the indulgence of the court”, particularly when, after receipt of almost entire payment towards price of the residential properties, it had failed to deliver possession in three cases. It further noted that the petitioner after handing over post-dated cheques for refund of the entire amount along with interest to complainants in three cases backed out of the mutual settlement as all cheques were dishonoured.Rejecting that orders passed by the commission are without jurisdiction, the court said: “The question here is whether the quorum of the bench was complete or not? This issue can be examined by the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-refuses-to-intervene-in-mohali-realtor-s-pleas-against-consumer-commission-orders/story-JyVe08kCygmW7uQbDp9KaP.html
18-11-2020||City||Burglars decamp with mobiles, cash from shop in Ludhiana||Burglars targetted a shop near Punjab Mata Nagar Chowk at Pakhowal road and decamped with nine mobile phones and Rs 35,000 on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday.The incident has been captured in the CCTVs installed at the shop. The police are trying to identify the accused.Jai Narang, owner of Narang Electronics, said that he came to know about the incident on Wednesday morning as his shop was ransacked and some mobile phones were missing. When checked, he found that burglars have stolen nine mobile phones and Rs 35,000 from the cash box after breaking open the locks.He immediately sounded to the police.ASI Balwinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said that the burglars intruded in the shop after drilling a hole in the roof.A case under Sections 457 and 380 of the IPC has been lodged against the unidentified accused at Dugri police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/burglars-decamp-with-mobiles-cash-from-shop-in-ludhiana/story-PJ3knDheMekxVZd9ia8oJL.html
18-11-2020||City||College student killed in hit-and-run on Airport Road in Mohali||A 20-year-old biker was killed in a hit-and-run on Airport Road in Mohali, police said on Wednesday.Identified as Vishal Bansal of Mata Guzri Enclave in Kharar, he studied in a private college.Vishal had left his house for Mohali when an unknown vehicle hit him near Dullat Resort in Sector 118 around 11am on Tuesday. Passersby informed police, and he was rushed to the civil hospital in Phase 6. He was later referred to GMCH, Sector 32, Chandigarh, where he succumbed to his injuries at night.“We have registered a case under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code, and are trying to trace the accused driver,” said inspector Amardeep Singh, station house officer, Balongi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/college-student-killed-in-hit-and-run-on-airport-road-in-mohali/story-zRINWhS9qLOzJKto1E3UKI.html
18-11-2020||Chandigarh||Drug addict held for two robberies at knifepoint in Chandigarh||Police on Wednesday arrested a history-sheeter for robbing two men at knifepoint in area falling under the Sector-39 police station on Monday.Identified as Bhupinder Singh, alias Sunny, 28, he is a resident of Sector 41 and has seven cases registered against him in Chandigarh. Police said he took to crime to fund his drug addiction. He was produced in court and sent to judicial custody. Bhupinder was arrested at a naka near the Sector 40/41/54/55 roundabout, followed a tip-off. The knife used in both crimes and ₹1,500 stolen from complainant Vinod Kumar were also recovered.Vinod, a resident of Buterla village in Sector 41, was urinating behind a petrol pump in Sector 39 on Monday evening, when Bhupinder pointed a knife at him and fled with his wallet containing ₹1,500.During interrogation, police also recovered a mobile phone that Bhupinder had snatched from Gurjinder Singh, a courier boy, at knifepoint the same evening. Gurjinder, a resident of Panchkula, had gone to Sector 41 to collect a parcel when Bhupinder forcibly sat behind him on the bike and pressed a knife against his back. He then asked Gurjinder to drive to Sector 40, and once there, got off the bike and fled with his mobile phone. Separate cases were registered under Section 392 (robbery) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/drug-addict-held-for-two-robberies-at-knifepoint-in-chandigarh/story-liWYbB3SaoIppQrME4gClI.html
18-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s public libraries to reopen from November 23||Closed since March, Chandigarh’s public libraries, including TS Central State Library of Sector 17 and Divisional Library in Sector 34, will reopen on Monday. This was confirmed by UT director of education Rubinderjit Singh Brar in a circular issued on Wednesday.While seating area will stay closed, it is learnt the libraries will only issue books at the reception area for now. Members can pre-book the available books on the respective websites. They will also be able to search for the books on a computer kept at the reception.The decision on opening the reading room, newspaper section and other parts of the libraries will be taken later, depending on the pandemic situation in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-public-libraries-to-reopen-from-november-23/story-XZPzsagCn5bofNKk3rQUnL.html
18-11-2020||Delhi||‘Centre yet to provide 250 ICU beds facility for people in Delhi’: AAP spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday said that the Centre had failed to deliver on its promise of providing 250 ICU beds for the citizens of the national capital amid a spike in the number of coronavirus (Covid-19) cases.AAP spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj said that ministers of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) found time to put up posters to promote themselves, but could not stick to their promise of complying with the Delhi government’s request to increase the number of ICU beds.“The Centre is yet to provide 250 ICU beds for the citizens of Delhi. You will have ample time to put up posters, but please comply with the promises you make to us,” he said while addressing a press conference.He further claimed that more than half of the Covid-19 patients admitted in Delhi hospitals are from Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. “We are happy to provide them with quality healthcare but this shows the utter failure of Yogi Adityanath and Manohar Lal Khattar,” he said. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageMeanwhile, the ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Wednesday listed out a number of measures that it said were underway to bring the Covid-19 situation in control in Delhi. “Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) to add 250 ICU beds to its already existing 250 ICU beds and also to create 35 BiPAP (Bilevel positive airway pressure) beds in the next 3-4 days at Covid hospital near Delhi airport,” the ministry tweeted.The national capital reported 6,396 cases of the coronavirus disease on Tuesday, up from 3,797 infections on Monday. The city’s Covid-19 tally stood at 495,598, including 7,812 deaths, according to a government bulletin on Tuesday.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/centre-yet-to-provide-250-icu-beds-facility-for-people-in-delhi-aap-spokesperson-saurabh-bhardwaj/story-BYH30UtTbM2v8ICNoth8OL.html
18-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh colleges to reopen for final-year students on November 23||The higher education department, Chandigarh, has decided to reopen colleges in the city in a phased manner from Monday. The development comes a day after Panjab University announced that its departments, regional centres and affiliated colleges will continue with online classes, for now. There are 16 colleges under the UT administration, and all are affiliated to Panjab University.University Grants Commission had earlier this month issued guidelines for colleges and universities across the nation to restart classes, after consultations with state governments.In the communication issued by the higher education department to heads of colleges on Wednesday, it has been stated that only final-year students of undergraduate and postgraduate courses will be allowed to join the institutions for academic and placement purposes from November 23. “Online classes will continue for all batches. We will assess the situation after reopening colleges for final-year students, and take a call on other batches,” said director of higher education Rubinderjit Singh Brar.Meanwhile, PU dean university instruction RK Singla said: “We will deliberate on the matter.”The department’s communication states teaching and non-teaching staff will regularly attend office as per timings fixed by the respective institute head. Hostels have been allowed to reopen from December 1, in case necessary.The colleges have been directed to develop their own standard operating procedures (SOPs) and adopt UGC guidelines issued on November 5 as per their needs and conditions. The institute heads will be responsible to ensure compliance of instructions issued by the ministry of home affairs, UGC and Chandigarh administration.According to UGC guidelines, universities and colleges have to make adequate arrangements for the safety of students, faculty and staff. Colleges have been asked to go in for a phased opening of campuses with social distancing, masks and other Covid safety protocols in place. Students and staff living in containment zones will not be allowed to enter the campus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-colleges-to-reopen-for-final-year-students-on-november-23/story-jvrJ6gboYiberEE5BvhkbP.html
18-11-2020||City||More buses to ply between Kalyan and Dombivli during mega block on Saturday, Sunday||Additional civic and state transport services will be provided on the days of mega blocks to be imposed for the launching of the main girder for new Patripool Road overbridge (ROB).The decision to provide additional bus services was taken on Wednesday at a meeting held at the Thane collector office with collector Rajesh Narvekar, officials of Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC), Thane deputy commissioner of traffic police Balasaheb Patil, officials of Kalyan and Thane municipal transport bodies.The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Transport (KDMT), Thane Municipal Transport (TMT) and Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) will provide the additional services.The Central Railway (CR) has announced a traffic and power block for the launching of 76.67m-long open web girder across railway tracks for Patripool ROB. It will operate four traffic and power blocks for launching the girder. The blocks will be imposed on November 21 and 22 between 10.15 am and 2.15 pm and on November 28 and 29. A total of the 14-hour-long mega block will be imposed.Milind Dhat, general manager, KDMT, said, “In order to ensure that there is no inconvenience to the commuters, additional buses will ply from Kalyan and Dombivli railways station during those periods.”As per CR, the block will be imposed between Kalyan and Dombivli stations while the Mumbai-Dombivli and Kalyan-Kasara-Karjat services will not be affected. However, throughout the mega block period, a total of 250 local services will be cancelled.“Right now, we have provided the details of the timings for the block for this weekend and also announced the cancellation and diversion of local and mail trains. Accordingly, we have asked for adequate services on the road for the commuters,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, CR.Shashikant Sontakke, chief engineer, MSRDC, said, “After the launching of the girder, we will finish the remaining work like building the concrete and railings. We have set a deadline of December to end for the completion of the work and opening the bridge.” The 104-year old Patripool bridge was dismantled in November 2018 after it was declared dangerous by the CR.Additional bus services: The KDMT will provide 25 additional buses during the block period. Ten buses will run between Kalyan and Dombivli, five between Kalyan and Titwala, two between Vitthalwadi and Dombivli, and five between Kalyan and Badlapur.The MSRTC and TMT will run 80 additional buses between Kalyan and Thane, and between Kalyan and Mantralay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/more-buses-to-ply-between-kalyan-and-dombivli-during-mega-block-on-saturday-sunday/story-Zw9LwteHgbaU4L1n4ynsVI.html
18-11-2020||Gurugram||TERI report suggests recharge wells, revival of catchment areas to avoid flooding of Golf Course Road||An interim report by TERI School of Advanced Studies has recommended a range of sustainable solutions to conserve rainwater and prevent urban flooding of the Golf Course Road (GCR) and neighbouring localities. The measures include building recharge wells along the length of the Wazirabad bundh, establishing green corridors along existing drainage channels and reviving naturally existing catchment areas to hold water run-off during monsoon.TERI’s study was undertaken in the wake of unprecedented waterlogging in Gurugram on August 19, during which GCR was among the worst-affected areas. Titled “Blue Green interventions for addressing flooding along Golf Course Road and Neighbouring Sectors in Gurugram”, TERI’s study “investigates the causes of frequent flooding along Golf Course Road and the neighbouring sectors (26-56)”.Commissioned by IAmGurgaon — a city-based NGO behind eco-restoration projects such the Aravalli Biodiversity Park and the Wazirabad bundh — TERI’s study has also received the support of officials in the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) and the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG).Before the study, representatives from TERI and IAmGurgaon held meetings and conducted field visits with VS Kundu, chief executive officer, GMDA and Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG, to discuss the scope of the undertaking. The study has not been funded by either of these local bodies, although both received copies of the interim report on November 17.Kundu and Singh did not respond to requests for comment on Wednesday. However, a senior official in the GMDA’s infrastructure department, who is privy to the matter, said on the condition of anonymity, “We have had a cursory look at the report and are in agreement with the suggestions. Similar conclusions were made by the GMDA’s flood protection committee constituted after August 19, which is headed by HSVP’s former chief engineer KK Bhugra.”The report (a copy of which is also with HT) has two major areas of focus. The first is an assessment of four drainage channels that originate in the Aravallis just above the Golf Course Road, and traverse its carriageway before draining into a water body that collects along the nearby Chakkarpur-Wazirabad bundh. The first of these natural creeks, which is also the lowest lying, runs through Sector 26, while the other three are located in sectors 42, 54 and 56. These are classified as Creeks 1-4, respectively.Researchers from the School of Regional Water Studies at TERI-SAS conducted rainfall analysis, land-use mapping and run-off analyses in the project area, based on which they have proposed interventions to be undertaken along each of these four drains. As per the report, “Construction in the area gathered momentum in the last few years and some stretches of the creeks (specifically Creek 2) are found to be not fully functional.”To revive these drains, a series of nine rain gardens have been proposed to be built at the project site. These would involve planting native vegetation in naturally occurring depressions and low-lying areas to promote groundwater recharge and hold run-off from nearby roads and pavements. Of these, one rain garden has been proposed in Sector 26, three in Sector 42-43, two along the Sector 54 creek and three more along the Sector 56 creek.The report also recommends the revival of eight naturally existing catchment basins in the Aravalli foothills. Lying upstream from the Golf Course Road, these ponds can be used as storage points to hold the run-off before it reaches GCR. Researchers have further suggested that “the downstream portion of Creek 4 beyond Golf course road needs to be protected as a green corridor.”It has also recommended that these four creeks be widened and maintained as open, earthen drains. Conducting “soil enhancement” along these networks, the report suggests, would result in a higher “infiltration rate” and promote groundwater recharge.“It is important to note that these interventions have been made on the assumption of land availability, based on what GIS maps have shown. The report is only an interim one and the feasibility of these interventions will need further assessment. We have also yet to determine the carrying capacity of these four creeks, and a hydrogeology profile of underlying rock layers also needs to be studied. Our final report is still being prepared and will address some of these concerns,” said Dr Fauzia Tarannum, of the School of Regional Water Studies, TERI-SAS.Other than revival of these creeks, the other major intervention proposed by TERI-SAS includes the construction of 14 recharge wells — known as injection wells — along the length of the Wazirabad bundh, which is where water run-off collects. TERI’s interim report states, “On the Chakkarpur-Wazirabad Main Bund, recharge wells... parallel to the bund is suggested, with infiltration galleries (so that water reaches these wells). These recharge wells can be at points where the creeks join the Bund.”Researchers at TERI-SAS have also suggested that existing borewell locations in the study area be identified, which will help in determining the aquifer line, along the Chakkarpur Wazirabad bundh. At these locations, “large diameter shallow recharge wells” are suggested. “These well would explicitly facilitate groundwater recharge in the area, which is needed, given how the groundwater table has depleted in recent years. This is a more sustainable option than simply draining the water out,” said Tarannum, who is also an advisor with the district administration’s Gurujal society.A spokesperson for DLF Estate Developers Ltd, the private developer who is the custodian of GCR, said, “We are aware of the report’s findings and will work with the GMDA and other authorities to resolve this issue. We have already taken stock of the flooding situation that happened earlier in August, which was caused due to unprecedented rainfall and not any infrastructure deficiency. We will consider any suggestions that is in the interest of Gurgaon and its residents.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/teri-report-suggests-recharge-wells-revival-of-catchment-areas-to-avoid-flooding-of-golf-course-road/story-NicfmdQdHjMy8leUqcRLML.html
18-11-2020||Gurugram||Only three contacts identified for each Covid-19 case in Gurugram||For every Covid-19 positive case reported in the district, three persons on an average are identified in the contact tracing exercise, according to the state health department data. It is less than the ideal contact tracing average, of at least 10 persons for each case, and the lowest among 22 districts in the state.Experts say the current pace of contact tracing in Gurugram is unsatisfactory, considering the accelerated transmission of SARS-CoV-2 virus.The contact tracing is a targeted approach to control the spread of disease. Close contacts of those who test positive for Covid-19 are identified and quarantined until they develop symptoms. The Niti Aayog, in a meeting held with the officials of Delhi-NCR, also emphasised on contact tracing, quarantine and isolation to control the record spike in cases.The data prepared by the state health department shows that for 39,000 positive cases detected in Gurugram, nearly 131,394 contacts were identified. Of these, only 129,875 could be traced, which is nearly 98.84%. Among these, over 61% (79,003) were high-risk contacts and 6% contacts were symptomatic. In about 4.5% of cases, no contacts were identified. Based on the figures, it was found that on an average, only 3.3 persons were identified in contact tracing for every positive case.Faridabad and Palwal also traced only four individuals, on an average, for each positive case. Other districts, such as Panipat, Jind, Panchkula and Charkhi Dadri, are tracing five persons, on an average, per each positive case. The findings show that Nuh does much better, with an average of 11 contacts traced for every positive case, followed by Sirsa, with at least 10 contacts.With Gurugram recording over 500 new infections every day, the highest among all districts, the health department is already facing challenges in timely contact tracing. The district health department has asked the state for additional workforce, including lab technicians and auxiliary nurse midwife (ANMs), as reported by HT on Wednesday, for timely testing of high-risk symptomatic contacts.“Gurugram has been reporting record spike in cases compared to other districts. It leads to pendency as tracing high-risk contacts within 72 hours becomes challenging,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer.“The contact tracing activity and its data entry is a time-consuming process, which sometimes leads to delay due to limited staff. Therefore, we have requested for deputation of additional staff,” he said.As new infections have nearly doubled since mid-October, the health department has set a three-day target to complete the process.Contact tracing takes into account the people who have been in contact with a lab-confirmed case for more than 15 minutes and at a distance less than one metre. They have to be identified within 24 hours, with symptomatic to be isolated and others to be quarantined.“The outbreak can be controlled through proper contact tracing. It is poor and unsatisfactory if only three to four contacts are traced for every positive case. It means only family members are being considered in contact tracing. Studies show that in 15% of cases, high-risk contacts are mostly family members. Ideally, on an average 10 contacts per case should be identified,” said Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head of community medicine department and school of public health, PGIMER – Chandigarh.He said that testing based on tracing is a crucial strategy in controlling the epidemic.Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology and infectious disease at the Indian Council of Medical Research said that only widespread testing helps in effective contact tracing. “If the weekly positivity rate is 18% then in every six tests one person is tested Covid-19 positive. The testing has to be increased based on the contacts of lab-confirmed cases, which should include 10 persons for every positive case. The overall testing has to be looked in the context of the people covered under the testing net and increasing positivity rate to slow down the active transmission of the virus.”Experts agreed that due to shortage of staff, proper contact tracing becomes a task. “It is difficult for the health department to alone conduct contact tracing of 700 cases every day. The task can be performed by non-medical professionals too, therefore, state administration should consider involving field staff of other government departments till the transmission is not controlled,” said Kumar.Currently, the health department has 206 rapid response teams (RRTs) — 163 in rural and 143 in urban areas — under different primary health centres (PHCs) on the task. It comprises ASHA, ANM or anganwadi workers, who are accompanied by a lab technician.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/only-three-contacts-identified-for-each-covid-19-case-in-gurugram/story-bJcl5tyqAo5hRdeSzBYmON.html
18-11-2020||Gurugram||Deputy civil surgeon robbed in Sector 47||A 55-year-old deputy civil surgeon of Civil Hospital was robbed of her gold bracelet and chain at gunpoint near her residence in Sector 47 around 5.30am on Wednesday. The woman was walking her dog when four unidentified men held her at gunpoint and snatched her belongings, the police said. According to the police, the deputy civil surgeon, Dr Shashi Kataria, was walking when a white Tata Nexon car stopped near her and three unidentified men got down. KK Rao, commissioner of police, said that two men, carrying pistols, pointed the guns at her. “They asked her to hand over her belongings. Before she could raise the alarm, they snatched her gold chain and bracelet,” he said. Kataria said the incident took place 100 metres from her house. “I was walking my pet when three men took me at gunpoint and asked me for my mobile. I told them I am not carrying my cell, following which they snatched my ornaments. They boarded the car and fled. I noticed the number and it belonged to Nuh,” she said.Kataria told police that the suspects looked to be in their early 20s and due to fog, she could not get a good look at their faces. The gold ornaments taken weighed about 15 grams in total, said police, estimating her loss at around Rs 1.5 lakh. The victim rushed home, called the police control room and informed her family members. The police said that the registration number of the car given by Kataria was found to be fake. They are recovering CCTV footage from the area to identify the suspects. A case under sections 392 (robbery), 397 (robbery, or dacoity, with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and sections of Arms Act was registered at Sadar police station on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/deputy-civil-surgeon-robbed-in-sector-47/story-tUTCyB9D9OFece9CJfEt0L.html
18-11-2020||City||Buyers allege developer sold units fraudulently, land lesser on ground than on paper, approach HC||Gurugram: Home buyers of the Godrej Icon project, located in Sector 88A and 89A, have alleged that the developer had sold the housing units by telling them that the land meant for the project was 9.385 acres but is less on the ground. Buyers, who have approached the Punjab and Haryana High Court seeking relief, said that they had bought the properties because it was promised to be a low-density project with 40 housing units in an acre, while in reality the project allegedly has more than 50 units in an acre, said buyers. The project was launched in 2015 by Godrej Properties. Buyers said that putting faith in the corporate developer, a majority of them had paid around 80% of the amount within the next one-and-a-half years. “Towards the end of 2017, a meeting was called by the developer for change of the development plan, where objections were raised. This forced us to investigate the project as well and we obtained project documents, maps and building plans and digitised the same,” said Ajay Vohra, a buyer, who said that they were surprised to find that land for the project was allegedly less than six acres and that their land had been diverted for some other purpose.Vohra and other buyers also approached the Haryana Real Estate Regulatory Authority (HRERA) in this matter, and from documents obtained from the authority and from the environment ministry, they found that the developer had allegedly submitted different land areas for the same project with different departments. “We want to leave the project, as what was promised in proposals and builder-buyer agreements is different from what is on offer. We did not get relief from the developer and authorities, and as such have filed a petition in the Punjab and Haryana High Court,” alleged Vohra, adding that some of the land shown in the project plan was meant to be acquired by the state government for development of roads and other infrastructure.“I filed for withdrawal before HRERA, Gurugram which awarded me return of the principal amount, along with interest as on January 29, 2019, however, along with forfeiture, which was later found unjust and overturned by the HRERA Appellate Tribunal, which also the remanded the case back to the adjudicating officer for award of compensation, along with principal and interest amount,” said Anita Sardana, one of the petitioners.The developer, when asked about the matter, said that the project in question is developed in Sector 88A in Gurugram on a larger licensed land admeasuring 13.759 acres, comprising two phases – Godrej Icon and Godrej Oasis. The area of the project on ground is in accordance with the area mentioned in the buyers’ agreement, the developer said.“Both the projects have been completed and delivered strictly in consonance with the approved sanction plans. No part of the project land is acquired by the government and with respect to the same, we would like to bring forth that the allegations made against us seem to be misconceived. We would also want to state that we are not in receipt of any notice with regards to this petition before the Punjab and Haryana High Court. As a responsible developer, we believe in full compliance with the legal requirements as per the stated norms of the state and are confident of the correctness of our action and the merits of our case,” said Subhasish Pattanaik, region head-NCR 1, Godrej Properties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/buyers-allege-developer-sold-units-fraudulently-land-lesser-on-ground-than-on-paper-approach-hc/story-HlH9dcGaYoC45G9HQNKBvK.html
18-11-2020||Gurugram||Bodies of two men found on expressway||Two men were found lying dead on the road, on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway, near Kherki Daula, in the early hours of Wednesday, said the police. Officers said that the autopsy confirmed that the victims were in an inebriated state but the motive behind the deaths was yet to be ascertained. According to the police, they were informed by a commuter around 4.30am that two bodies were lying on the road and one of them had no clothes on. A team from the Kherki Daula police station and a forensic team were sent. The victims had severe injuries all over their body and head, possibly inflicted with a blunt object, said officers.Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said they were still trying to ascertain the cause of death and they did not find anything crucial to establish the motive. Police said a preliminary probe suggests that the men were either hit by an unidentified vehicle or were killed by someone in a robbery attempt. “The stretch is isolated and a few cases have been reported here in the past of loot and snatching. We have roped in crime teams to investigate the reason for the deaths,” he said. Police recovered a motorcycle from near the spot and after examining it, police said it didn’t seem as if the deceased were rammed by any vehicle as it is not damaged from any side.The victims were identified as Dheeraj Sunder (24) of Siwan in Bihar, and Salim (22) of Mainpuri in Uttar Pradesh. Police said both were friends and lived in different rented accommodations in Shivaji Park and Devi Lal colony. Dheeraj’s body was found unclad and his clothes were not found at the spot, the police said.The ACP said Salim worked in a private company in Manesar and Dheeraj had set up a vegetable shop in his colony.The family members of the victims have alleged foul play and demanded that the suspects involved be identified and arrested. “If it were an accident then where did the clothes go? His wallet and watch are also missing,” said Shyam Sunder, father of Dheeraj.Police said they found one mobile phone from the spot and informed the family, who told the police that they both were partying until late night at a friend’s place near Kherki Daula, and that Dheeraj had gone to drop Salim to Rajeev Chowk but didn’t return. The ACP said that the bodies were handed over to the family after autopsy, on Wednesday afternoon. According to the autopsy, the cause of death was head injuries possibly inflicted by a blunt object. A case was registered against unidentified persons under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code at Kherki Daula police station on Wednesday, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/bodies-of-two-men-found-on-expressway/story-LjNpZqfLIz3utP5kYHYrLK.html
18-11-2020||Gurugram||DTCP razes 30 illegal shops in Sector 68||A day after demolishing 18 houses in an unauthorised colony in Bhondsi, the enforcement wing of department of town and country planning (DTCP) on Wednesday demolished 30 shops in Sector 68 amid strong protests by locals. DTCP officials said that the enforcement team along with a large police contingent reached the area around 11am and shop owners an hour to remove their goods. However, owners and local residents started protesting and raised slogans against the authorities. It was only after intervention by the police personnel that the demolition drive started around an hour later, said DTCP officials. “The shops were constructed illegally and without any permission. Despite that, owners were given time to remove their stock so that they don’t suffer losses. The demolition was carried out for around four hours in which 30 shops were demolished,” said Bhath. Ashish Sharma, assistant town planner, enforcement, said that a detailed survey was conducted prior to demolition and the drive was carried out only after verification of land and ownership. “We have repeatedly asked people not to invest in illegal properties as these can be demolished anytime,” he said. In a related development, the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran on Wednesday removed the encroachments from a site for cremation ground in Sector 52A, on the directions of Vivek Kalia, estate officer, II, Gurugram. This site will be handed over to DLF Foundation for the construction of a modern cremation ground under corporate social responsibility, said officials. HSVP officials said that the 6.5-acre site was encroached and hutments had been constructed on it, which were removed by the enforcement team with the help of police personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/dtcp-razes-30-illegal-shops-in-sector-68/story-n9HBMuiDPlKIj6PgraP5CI.html
18-11-2020||Gurugram||Land for Delhi-Gurugram-SNB rail corridor project to be transferred||In a major fillip to the Delhi-Gurugram-SNB Regional Rapid Transport System (RRTS) project, the Haryana government on Wednesday directed the transfer of 31 hectares at Dharuhera to National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC) for the construction of a rail depot, required for operation and maintenance of the entire network. The decision to transfer the land was taken during a state-level meeting in Chandigarh, in which officials of the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikarn (HSVP), Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC), Haryana Vidyut Prasaran Nigam Limited (HVPNL) and NCRTC discussed various issues pertaining to the rapid rail project. The meeting was chaired by the principal secretary, department of town and country planning, AK Singh. NCRTC, which is developing the 107-kilometre Delhi-Gurugram-Behror section of the rapid rail, has sought 74 hectares of land at Dharuhera, but, at present, only 31 hectares are set to be transferred as the remaining land is under litigation, said officials, who added that efforts are on to get the remaining land out of arbitration. The 107-kilometre high-speed rail network will commence at Sarai Kale Khan in Delhi and terminate at SNB (Shahjahanpur-Neemrana-Behror) station in Rajasthan, passing through Gurugram. The network will have four stations in Delhi, eight in Gurugram, three in Rewari and one in Rajasthan. Of the total network, 73 kilometres will be elevated, while 34 kilometres will be underground, as per the project proposal. Jitender Yadav, HSVP administrator, Gurugram, who was in Chandigarh for the meeting, confirmed that directions have been issued for the transfer of land at Dharuhera to NCRTC for construction of rail depot. “A proposal to transfer land will be sent to HSVP headquarters in Chandigarh and after getting approval, this land will be transferred at the earliest,” he said. Officials also discussed the transfer of HSVP land in Sector 22 for construction of a rapid rail station and for giving passing rights to RRTS corridor near Signature Tower, where it plans to construct a pillar on the land where a Japanese hostel is present. Referring to the transfer of land for the rapid rail station, Yadav said that a site visit will be soon conducted with NCRTC officials in this regard to assess the feasibility, after which the process to transfer land will be initiated. A senior official who attended the meeting said, on the condition of anonymity, said that NCRTC officials were also asked to ensure that the alignment of the RRTS project is done in such a manner that it has a minimum impact on the HSVP land and other stakeholders. In the meeting, directions were also issued to HVPNL, the power utility, to expedite the process of raising 12 high-tension power lines, which are infringing the Delhi-SNB corridor. It was also decided that a proposal for transferring land near Jwala Mill in Udyog Vihar, for casting yards, would be expedited, the official cited above said. NCRTC officials, when asked about the matter, said that the meeting on Wednesday was positive and they expected the transfer of land at Dharuhera and other places soon. “The process to seek land and other permission in advance is to ensure that there are no hitches during the project construction. NCRTC is presently carrying out the pre-construction activities on the Delhì-Gurugram-SNB corridor, including shifting of high-tension lines, seeking no-objection certificates, etc. Civil construction will be started without any delay, once this RRTS project gets the sanction,” said Puneet Vats, NCRTC spokesperson. The NCRTC plans to construct the RRTS corridor in three phases. In the first phase, a 107-km stretch from Sarai Kale Khan in Delhi to SNB Urban Complex (Shahjahanpur-Neemrana-Behror), i.e, just ahead of Bawal (Haryana), touching various regional nodes like Gurugram, Manesar, Panchgaon and Rewari en route, will be constructed. In the second phase, the line would be extended from SNB to Sotanala, with Shahjahanpur, Neemrana and Behror in between and in the third phase, the stretch from SNB to Alwar will be constructed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/land-for-delhi-gurugram-snb-rail-corridor-project-to-be-transferred/story-TjPBQQlioHLVDFTk06AeLO.html
18-11-2020||Gurugram||Bhamrauli attack: Family seeks protection fearing retaliation||Around 100 villagers from Bhamrauli village in Sector 10 met the police commissioner on Wednesday, seeking the immediate arrest of Akash Yadav, a repeat offender, who attacked a resident’s household on Sunday and injured three members of the family over a parking issue. He had also fired a countrymade gun during the attack, in which over 30 goons accompanied him, it has been allegedThe police said the villagers have demanded security for the victims’ family as they are fearing another attack by the suspect, who is currently on the run along with his family members. The police said that Akash Yadav, alias Ashu, is involved in more than 50 cases of murder, attempt to murder, assault, and extortion. His younger brother, father, mother and 30 aides had attacked the family and fired around 30 rounds, the police said. KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said that efforts have been stepped up to trace the accused. “We have got crucial clues, including the location of two suspects, and five teams have been sent to various places to nab them. We hope they will be arrested soon. Additional force has been deployed in the village to ensure law and order and security is being given to the victim’s family on Wednesday,” he said. The villagers alleged that the accused, in the past, has attacked people who had objected to his actions. Rajeev Yadav, one of the victims, said that there are many unidentified goons who are currently doing rounds of the village to attack the family members. “We met the commissioner and demanded police protection for our safety. Anyone who raise their voice against the accused family have suffered the brunt of it. The women in the family are also not safe and right now, there are no CCTV cameras functional in the surroundings after the incident,” he said. On Sunday night, an argument over parking a car at a public place in the village turned ugly, with 30 persons breaking into the house of a former sarpanch and attacking the family. A police case was registered following the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/bhamrauli-attack-family-seeks-protection-fearing-retaliation/story-hunOXlHWUeHIwoOuDFF6WJ.html
18-11-2020||Gurugram||Police to check Covid protocols at pubs, bars||The police on Wednesday formed 50 teams to conduct surprise checks at pubs, bars and restaurants across the city to find out if social distancing is being maintained there. The police said these checks will be in addition to the regular checks at markets and other public places that are carried out on a daily basis. Senior officials said they are checking these establishments to ensure they are taking necessary precautions and complying with the Covid-19 protocols. KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said that there has been a spike in the coronavirus cases and it has been observed that many people are not wearing masks, infecting others too. “This drive is important as people have started moving out for get-togethers and parties in large groups. Many establishments are also not maintaining social distancing and they are not following the guidelines, resulting to spread of the virus,” he said. The teams will visit popular hot spots like Sector 29, Cyber Hub, Horizon 1 and Sohna Road, which are hubs of restaurants and bars, frequented by thousands on a daily basis. The teams will keep a check on visitors and the number of people visiting a pub and bar, besides checking if all precautions are being taken. The visitors will also be monitored by the police. According to the police, owners of such establishments have been directed not to allow visitors without face masks and also arrange other sanitisation facilities at the venues. Thermal scanning is also must, the police said. Rao said they are spreading awareness and have requested the public to alert the police in case of violations, following which immediate action will be taken. “Any establishment found violating Covid-19 regulations will be sealed and the persons concerned, booked. We are also planning to announce a monetary reward for people giving information regarding the violations,” he said. On Tuesday, the police had taken up the process of identifying the number of banquet halls and marriage lawns, where weddings and functions are being held. There are 530 such places across the city, said police, adding that they have asked the owners to submit a list of parties and weddings taking place in a week, and to update police once they confirm the bookings. The police teams are deployed in all public areas in plain clothes and are keeping a close watch on people not wearing masks. Those violating the rule are penalised Rs 500 on the spot, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/police-to-check-covid-protocols-at-pubs-bars/story-XNTzVOY9D6H7tJrDVLa09L.html
18-11-2020||Gurugram||Air quality at ‘moderate’ for first time in three weeks||Air quality in the city improved to the ‘moderate’ category of the air quality index (AQI) for the first time in at least three weeks on Wednesday, with a reading of 146 on the CPCB’s daily pollution bulletin. This was down from Wednesday’s AQI of 204, when the city was engulfed in ‘poor’ air. Experts and officials attributed the dip in pollution levels to favourable wind direction and speed, which helped to sustain dispersal of pollutants from Gurugram. Pollution levels in the city have recorded a sustained decline since November 15. The level of ultrafine particulate matter having a diameter of 2.5 microns or less (PM 2.5), the city’s primary pollutant, was 175 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m³) on Monday, as per the CPCB’s air quality monitor at Vikas Sadan in Sector 11. This is down from about 399 µg/m³ on November 15. The permissible limit for PM2.5, however, is 60µg/m³.As a result, Gurugram was the least polluted among other major cities in the National Capital Region (NCR) on Wednesday, with Delhi, Noida, Faridabad, Ghaziabad and Greater Noida all recording ‘poor’ air, with AQI readings in excess of 200. On Tuesday, while Gurugram recorded poor air, other major NCR cities had recorded moderate air.As per the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, a further dip in pollution levels is expected across the region on Thursday. As per official forecasts, “The air quality in Delhi-NCR is likely to remain in moderate category on 19.11.2020 and moderate to poor category on 20.11.2020.”Sachin Panwar, a city-based independent air quality scientist, said, “The specific direction of the wind on Wednesday was favourable to Gurugram, which received strong winds from the direct north. The wind speeds also went up from 8 to 10kmph on Tuesday, touching about 12kmph, which helped dispersal of pollutants. The influence of these winds may not have been as much over Delhi and other parts of NCR, which allowed pollutants to accumulate in the capital and places like Noida and Ghaziabad, pushing the air quality there back into the poor category.” On Wednesday, the city recorded a maximum temperature of 24.1 degrees Celsius, down from 24.6 degrees Celsius a day prior and a minimum temperature of 12 degrees Celsius, down from 14.2 degrees Celsius a day before. As per the weekly IMD forecast, partly cloudy skies are expected to prevail on Thursday. While the maximum temperature is expected to remain between 24 and 26 degrees Celsius over the next week, official forecasts predict that nighttime temperatures will plunge to 10 degrees Celsius by November 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/air-quality-at-moderate-for-first-time-in-three-weeks/story-rHBWrDYpG3uNQDLeXI80UK.html
18-11-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal woman abducted for forcible marriage in Chandigarh, rescued||A 30-year-old woman was allegedly abducted by her estranged boyfriend and his aide in Himachal Pradesh and brought to Chandigarh for forcible marriage on Wednesday.An alert shopkeeper notified the police on spotting the men misbehaving with the woman in Sector 22. But, before the police arrived, the accused sped away in their white Maruti Suzuki Swift.The woman, who works as an assistant manager at a bank in Hamirpur, was rescued and taken to the police station. There, she complained that she had severed ties with her boyfriend, Vivek Saini, but he had been pressuring her to marry him and even threatened to kill her. On Wednesday, Vivek, along with his friend, Rohit Chaudhary, abducted her from outside her bank while she was going to work. At knifepoint, Vivek made her call her father to inform him that she was marrying him. They brought her to Chandigarh to solemnise the marriage and took her to Sector 22 for shopping when she sought help.The Chandigarh Police registered a zero FIR under Sections 365 (kidnapping or abducting) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and forwarded the case to their counterparts in Hamirpur, Himachal Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-woman-abducted-for-forcible-marriage-in-chandigarh-rescued/story-98HJ7mzGZji31CO8WSIugN.html
18-11-2020||City||Pune reports 666 Covid cases, 19 deaths||PuneThe state health department reported 666 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday and 19 deaths in 24 hours in Pune district. The district has reported 3.43 lakh cases out of which 3.19 lakh have recovered, 7,228 have been reported dead and 16,542 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or are in home isolation.Pune city reported 339 new cases taking the total count to 176,020 and six deaths taking the death toll to 4,127 while PCMC reported 154 new cases taking the final count to 86,610 and four deaths with 1,204 as death toll. Pune rural reported 173 new cases taking the final count to 80,583 and nine deaths taking the death toll to 1,864, according to the state health department.The state health department reported that 6,609 patients were discharged on Saturday taking the final count to over 16.30 lakh.The recovery rate in the state is 92.75%. Also, 5,011 new cases in the state were reported on Monday taking the total to over 17.57 lakh.In addition, 100 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state taking the death toll to 47,188. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.63%. Out of 9,900,878 laboratory samples, 1,757,520 have been tested positive (17.75%) for Covid-19 until Wednesday. Currently, 750,992 people are in home quarantine and 5,354 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-reports-666-covid-cases-19-deaths/story-vxhRaRprQAS4IjTeORTuLM.html
18-11-2020||City||Three, including 2 women, held for furnishing fake bail bonds||Acting on the complaint of Judicial magistrate Satish Kumar Sharma, the police have arrested three persons, including two women, for furnishing fake documents and bail bonds in district court to secure the release of accused on bail in criminal cases.The arrested accused have been identified as Barjinder Kaur of Bholewal village of Qadian, Krishan Chand of Baldev Nagar of Morinda, and Bharti Rani of Nidhan Singh Nagar.The court found the documents submitted by the accused were forged and ordered the police to arrest the accused and lodge an FIR.As per the sources, the accused used to charge anything between Rs 5,000 to Rs 25,000 depending on the case to help criminals secure bail. After availing bail, the criminals used to elude the police and refrain from appearing in court hearings. ASI Sukhpal Singh, who is investigating the case, said an FIR under Sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 465 (forgery), 466 (Forgery of record of Court or of public register) 467 (forgery of valuable security and will), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged) 474 (Having possession of document described in section 466 or 467, knowing it to be forged and intending to use it as genuine) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered against the accused. More important information is expected from the accused during questioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-including-2-women-held-for-furnishing-fake-bail-bonds/story-HFrbx1QpRpfd4FHQGeRZMP.html
18-11-2020||City||RTE violation: 28 schools put on notice for not availing recognition from DEO||District education officer (DEO, elementary) Rajinder Kaur has served show-cause notices to 28 schools of the city for not availing recognition. The schools have been given two days’ time to submit their reply.To run Classes till 8, schools have to take recognition from the DEO (elementary) office under the Right to Education Act and obtain a NOC.Kaur said that show-cause notices have been issued and if the school authorities fail to give a satisfactory reply then they will be forced to shut down.The notices have been issued to Saraswati Vidya Mandir Convent School, Gayatari Senior Secondary School, Vinayaka Convent School, Junior’s world Playway and Primary School, Sacred Heart Convent International School, Everest Public Senior Secondary School, Giaspura, Little Champ Public School, 4’ UR Kids School, Ryan Vidhya Mandir School, SD Gupta Memorial Convent School, The Lord Bless International School, St Thomas Convent School, Onkar Convent School, Blessed Sacrament School, SDP Collegiate Girls Senior Secondary School, S Atama S Sagar Academy, Success Public School, Madrasa Islamia Arabia Norul Quran, Madrasa Islamia Arabia Madhul Ameen, Madrasa Islamia Tartilul Quran, Madrasa dar-ul-uloom Qadria Jama Masjid Bassian, Kamian Habibia, Islamia Public School Rahon road, Unique International School, Kundan Public School, Aashiana World School, Sacred Dale International School and Maple International School.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rte-violation-28-schools-put-on-notice-for-not-availing-recognition-from-deo/story-J2hyfk4pCS3rt1D1s99PPL.html
18-11-2020||City||Man booked for fraudulently withdrawing Rs 2 crore from dead father’s account||Division Number 5 police have booked a man for allegedly withdrawing Rs 2 crore from his dead father’s bank account without the consent of his stepmother. The FIR has been lodged following the complaint of his stepmother.The accused has been identified as Gursharan Singh of Gill village who works as an assistant professor at Christian Medical College and hospital.Complainant Gurvinderjit Kaur, 60, of Gurdev Nagar stated that she got married to Parminderjit Singh Gill in 1994. After marriage, she had taken the responsibility of Gursharan, who is Parminderjit’s son from his first marriage. She added that Parminderjit died in April 2019 and after his death, Gursharan had transferred all the money in his account without giving her a share. Following this, she lodged a complaint with the police on December 19, 2019.ASI Sukhpal Singh, who is investigating the case, said that the FIR under Section 406 has been lodged following an inquiry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-booked-for-fraudulently-withdrawing-rs-2-crore-from-dead-father-s-account/story-vzeVTExaznFkfkPdYuWOCP.html
18-11-2020||City||Ludhiana MC employees fleece visitors at parking lots||Despite the tall claims of officials of the municipal corporation (MC), employees of parking lots continue to fleece visitors.The illegal practice is being done right under the nose of the senior MC officials as Rs 50 instead of Rs 20 is being charged for car parking at the multi-storey parking lot near the MC headquarters - MC Zone A office near Mata Rani chowk. Further, Rs 20 is being charged for two-wheeler parking against the approved fee of Rs 10. E-ticketing machines have been provided to the staff but manual receipts are being issued at most points. Similarly, Rs 30 and Rs 20 are being charged at Bhadaur house parking lot for car and two-wheeler parking respectively. Receipts are only issued to visitors when they ask for it at the BRS Nagar and Bhadaur house parking lots. At Feroze Gandhi market parking lot, some unidentified persons are also involved in the collection of parking fees but no action is being taken by the MC.The parking contracts of six parking lots including multi-storey parking near MC Zone A office, Model Town Extension (tuition market), BRS Nagar (near orient cinema), Sarabha Nagar market block-I, Bhadaur house and Feroze Gandhi market expired last month and the lots are now being managed by the civic body as it has failed to allot the new contracts as of now. A shopkeeper in Chaura Bazar, Jaspreet Singh said, “It is a complete nuisance and the MC staff is also involved in the entire nexus. Tall claims are made by the MC that e-ticketing has been implemented at the lots but its own staff issues manual receipts that too when someone asks for it. The residents are left a harried lot as even the senior MC officials and politicians are hand in gloves with the parking mafia. The staff deployed at the multi-storey parking lot charge Rs 50 for car parking and the residents are left with no other option but to pay as there is no other parking available in the nearby areas.”The MC employees also misbehave with visitors if questions are raised over overcharging and non-issuance of receipts.A resident of BRS Nagar Satinder Singh said, “Apart from fleecing, the MC employees also misbehave with visitors if they oppose overcharging. Residents are left with no other option than to face harassment at the parking lots.”MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “I have not received any complaint against overcharging till now and I will direct the concerned officials to check the illegal practice. If any staff member is caught fleecing residents, strict action will be taken against him.” BOX Parking fee:Two wheeler : Rs 10Four wheeler : Rs 20Small commercial vehicle: Rs 50Big commercial vehicle/trucks: Rs 100||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mc-employees-fleece-visitors-at-parking-lots/story-b3LQZHcxrfTwGCkkazlWfN.html
18-11-2020||Chandigarh||CBI wants trial to resume in three Chandigarh cases stayed by HC over six months ago||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed applications in the bureau’s special court seeking resumption of trial proceedings in three cases put on stay by the Punjab and Haryana high court over six months ago.The pleas come following a Supreme Court order directing magistrates all over the country to “go ahead with trial on the expiry of six months of the stay order passed by any court, including high court.”There are at least nine high-profile cases, sub-judice in the special CBI court, that have been on stay for over six months.Of these three involve Satish Kumar Paddam, the then executive engineer, Panjab University; Shilpy Pattar, the then SDM (East) and Naveen Sharma, the then sub-inspector (SI) with economic offences wing (EOW).In July 2010, Paddam and PU’s then sub-divisional engineer Nand Lal Kaushal were booked for taking Rs 35,000 bribe from a man carrying out renovation work at PU.The case was stayed by HC on July 13, 2018.“The case is in its final stage, as the prosecution witnesses have been examined and defence arguments have concluded. But, Paddam moved an application in HC, stating that voice samples were taken in police custody. On July 13, 2018, he got a stay from the court,” said a court official.After CBI moved a plea to resume trial recently, Paddam, in his reply to court on November 18, sought the application’s dismissal, citing the Covid pandemic as one of the reasons.Another case, where CBI filed an application, dates back to 2012.In September 2012, EOW SI Naveen Sharma was arrested for allegedly demanding a bribe of Rs 10 lakh from an accused in a case. As per CBI, Sharma was investigating a high-profile case registered on the complaint of former Punjab IAS officer Gurnihal Singh Pirzada.The third case, involving Shilpy Pattar, has been on stay since August 16, 2018.Pattar, a Haryana Civil Services (HCS) officer, who was deputed in Chandigarh, had allegedly demanded Rs 5 lakh as bribe for de-sealing a showroom in Sector 26. After negotiations, the deal was allegedly struck at Rs 2 lakh, of which Rs 50,000 were to be paid on August 5. But, a CBI team raided her house and recovered the money.“She approached HC seeking discharge from the allegations on two grounds. Firstly, that her voice samples were taken forcibly in CBI custody and that these should not be played out as it leads to self-incrimination. Then, she moved a civil writ stating that sanctioning authority did not apply its mind while giving sanction to prosecute her,” said a CBI official.CBI’s plea to continue the trial is listed for November 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cbi-wants-trial-to-resume-in-three-chandigarh-cases-stayed-by-hc-over-six-months-ago/story-5erYMTO0q4vyersN0pswXK.html
18-11-2020||City||Ludhiana MC removes unauthorised ad boards installed at shops||The municipal corporation (MC) Zone A staff on Wednesday removed unauthorised advertisement boards installed at the shops near MC headquarters (Zone A office) at Mata Rani chowk.The action was taken against a dozen shops.The officials said that shopkeepers are only allowed to install a 3-feet longboard at their shops to display the products they sell but most of them had installed bigger boards.Notices were issued to them in the past and as they failed to remove the unauthorised ad boards, the civic body took action against them on Wednesday. The officials said that the drive will continue in the coming days.MC superintendent (advertisement), Ashok Kumar said, “Notices were served to shopkeepers asking them to remove the unauthorised advertisement boards, but they remained adamant due to which action was taken on Wednesday.”Earlier in October, some residents had submitted complaints with the local bodies department slamming the civic body for its failure to take action against unauthorised advertisement. The authorities were criticised as a large number of unauthorised advertisement boards were installed at the shops situated near the MC headquarters.Recently, the MC house had also approved a resolution to impose a penalty of up to Rs 50,000 against illegal hoardings/advertisement. But the civic body is yet to receive final approval from the local bodies department for the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mc-removes-unauthorised-ad-boards-installed-at-shops/story-ZOrYq4FqGm1pwnfi3KI80J.html
18-11-2020||City||BKU activists hold protest against Centre’s farm laws||After closing down the grocery store of a private retail giant in various parts of Ludhiana, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU-Ugraha) on Wednesday held a protest outside the deputy commissioner office in mini secretariat against the three farm laws introduced by the Centre.District general secretary of the union Saudagar Singh Ghudani said that today’s protest was part of statewide agitation announced by BKU.“As the Centre is not bothered about farmers, we have decided to intensify our agitation. The BJP government is trying to bully farmers by stopping the freight trains. If the government is adamant, then we will also not budge from our stand,” said Ghudani.The activists also raised anti-government slogans.Earlier, BKU Ugraha had shut down fuel stations, retail and grocery outlets of cooperate firms. Besides, they had also staged a protest outside the house of BJP Kisan Morcha’s president Bikram Singh Cheema in Payal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bku-activists-hold-protest-against-centre-s-farm-laws/story-7jZq2DMVaYGdXzSd2JoYfO.html
18-11-2020||City||Punjabi University V-C Ghuman resigns||Patiala Two months after he was granted an extension for three years in September this year, Punjabi University, Patiala, vice-chancellor (V-C) BS Ghuman has resigned from his post. The university has been facing financial difficulties and Ghuman had been unable to get the institution out of the mess it was in, since taking charge in 2017.He submitted his resignation to Punjab governor VP Singh Badnore, who is the chancellor of the university. Badnore forwarded the resignation to the Punjab chief secretary and the chief principal secretary to the CM.In his resignation sent on November 17 (Tuesday), Ghuman has cited personal reasons for the decision. He has thanked the Punjab chief minister for giving him a chance to serve the university and also granting him the extension in service of three years in September. He then lists his achievements, before concluding by writing, “Due to personal reasons, I am not keen to continue.”Ghuman was under pressure as his loyalists had turned foes and launched an indefinite protest against him over issues like timely payment of salaries and some of his administrative decisions. He also failed to take action against guilty officials and faculty members, who had been indicted in inquiries.He was perceived as passing the buck, even as the Punjab government was pushing him to take action against persons who had been illegally recruited by violating the norms of the University Grants Commission (UGC) and on the basis of fake caste certificates.Ghuman had also been demanding a one-time help of Rs 300 crore from the state government to bail out the university, which is under a debt of Rs 150 crore. His decision not to attend office, even as the lockdown had been lifted also drew severe criticism.Ghuman didn’t take calls. Higher education secretary Rahul Bhandari confirmed that he had received Ghuman’s resignation. “The government will take a decision on it,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjabi-university-v-c-ghuman-resigns/story-Dlf8g7gXyRkZGiS0Ole5RI.html
18-11-2020||Chandigarh||‘Will think over passenger trains if Centre allows goods trains’: Punjab’s agitating farmers||Condemning the BJP-led central government for its “stubborn” attitude, various Punjab farmers’ bodies on Wednesday said if the Centre starts running goods trains in the state, they will think of allowing passenger trains.Addressing the media after a meeting here, farmer leaders insisted they will continue with their agitation against the new farm laws.“The Centre has adopted a stubborn attitude towards Punjab and its farmers, traders and labourers and we condemn the central government’s attitude,” said farmer leader Ruldu Singh.He said it had been nearly a month since goods train service has been stopped in the state. “The Central government should run (goods) trains first and then we will hold an emergency meeting in which we could think over passenger trains,” said Punjab Kisan Union Singh.“We will think over passenger trains if the Centre allows goods trains,” he asserted.The Railways had declined to resume goods train operation in Punjab, saying it would either operate both freight and passenger trains or none.Farmers held a meeting here days after a meeting with Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Railway Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Prakash in Delhi that remained inconclusive. Singh said farmers, traders and labourers were adversely affected because of the Centre’s “stubborn” attitude.He further said representatives of 30 farmers’ organisations were ready to go to Delhi by tractors for holding a protest on November 26 and 27 against the new farm laws.“Lakhs of our farmers will go (to Delhi) by tractors,” he said.Asked that they were denied permission for holding a protest in Delhi on account of coronavirus, he described it as an “excuse.” “They give permission or not, we are fully prepared to go to Delhi,” he said.A ‘Delhi Chalo’ protest call has been given by the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), a body of more than 200 farmers’ organisations across the country.To another question, he said farmers have been holding protests outside the residences of several BJP leaders in the state.Asked whether they will gherao BJP president J P Nadda if he comes to Punjab, Singh said they will definitely do so.Nadda will digitally inaugurate 10 district offices of the party on November 19 and he would soon undertake a three-day tour to the state to take stock of the preparations and to galvanise party workers for the 2022 Punjab assembly polls, BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh had said on November 16.Farmers in Punjab have expressed apprehension that the new farm laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporates. They have been demanding that these new laws should be repealed.Farmers had resorted to ‘rail roko’ agitation and staged sit-ins outside some shopping malls, toll plazas and outside the residences of BJP leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/will-think-over-passenger-trains-if-centre-allows-goods-trains-punjab-s-agitating-farmers/story-1ISrAva43wMQAsrcPpwo1N.html
18-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Lit Fest ‘Literati’ to open on November 20||The eighth edition of the Chandigarh Lit Fest – “Literati 2020” – will open on November 20. To be conducted virtually this year, it will feature former CEO of Procter and Gamble, Gurcharan Das, in the opening plenary session.Over 30 authors from English, Hindi and Punjabi genre will participate in the three-day event, which will go live on Facebook and YouTube from 5.30pm onwards.Some of the authors participating in fest are Sudha Murthy, Rajdeep Sardesai, Ashish Vidyyarthi, Chitra Banerjee Divakaruni, Rakhshanda Jalil, Radhakrishnan Pillai, Anuja Chauhan, Janki Santoke, Amandeep Sandhu, Sarabpreet Singh, Anuja Chandramouli and Erner Davis.Sumita Misra, chairperson of Chandigarh Literary Society (CLS), said the festival was being organised in association with the department of renewable energy of Haryana and the Embassy of Ireland.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-lit-fest-literati-to-open-on-november-20/story-X1PwAJDUc8lod43SUAfPPK.html
18-11-2020||Chandigarh||Skeleton of man missing since September found in Chandigarh forest||The skeleton of a labourer missing since September 9 was found in the forest area of Makhanmajra on Wednesday morning. A pair of slippers found near the decomposed body helped identify the deceased as Barinder Shah of Hallomajra, Chandigarh. His family had lodged a missing person’s complaint at the Sector 31 police station in September. Police said the skeletal remains, which were tied to a rope and found below a tree, had been sent to the Government Multi-Specialty Hospital in Sector 16, to establish if the deceased was murdered or he hanged himself. The skeleton was discovered by UT forest department official Sultan Singh, who was on routine patrolling duty around 10am. He informed the police, who reached the spot and found nothing but slippers and the rope tied to the skeleton. Later, Barinder’s family identified him with the help of the footwear.The Mauli Jagran police have started investigation into the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/skeleton-of-man-missing-since-september-found-in-chandigarh-forest/story-zJasW0WppvLMMdp1L6jxHL.html
18-11-2020||Chandigarh||Miffed over delay in PU syndicate meeting, members schedule one on their own||Awaiting a meeting since July, members of the Panjab University syndicate have scheduled a forum on their own for November 23.Terming it “Syndicate meeting”, a member shared the event’s notice on the official social media group of syndicate members, following which members favoured calling the meeting. Notably, according to the PU calendar, the syndicate meetings are to be convened by the registrar as directed by the vice-chancellor (V-C) or as decided by the syndicate.Last week, members had protested on the varsity campus demanding immediate conduct of the senate polls and a syndicate meeting. The last meeting of PU syndicate, which is the varsity’s executive body, was held in July.While V-C Raj Kumar had called an online emergency meeting twice in September, members had refused to attend it and instead demanded a physical meeting. Syndicate member Navdeep Goyal said, “Despite promising to call a meeting soon, the V-C has not acted on it. Now a, member has suggested scheduling a meeting next week and we have endorsed it.”On Tuesday, the V-C gave the additional charge of controller of examinations to Jagat Bhushan, pending approval of the syndicate and the senate.Another syndicate member HS Dua said, “The V-C is using the powers of the syndicate, but does not consult the members. The powers of constituting the committees, granting affiliation and other approvals are with the syndicate.”On his part, V-C Kumar said the meeting had not been convened by the university officially, since the registrar was in quarantine due to Covid-19. “One of the syndicate members has posted a notice in a social media group on his own accord,” he added||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/miffed-over-delay-in-pu-syndicate-meeting-members-schedule-one-on-their-own/story-lARQaEnBjH8mRrPiCMN6oL.html
18-11-2020||Delhi||‘Measures being taken to address shortage in number of ICU beds’: Kejriwal||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said that there is a shortage of intensive care unit (ICU) beds for coronavirus patients in the city’s hospitals, while speaking to news agency ANI. He also said that more than 600 beds are being added as Covid-19 cases continue to rise in New Delhi.Kejriwal assured that the Delhi government is taking action to acquire more beds and said, “I believe in the next few days, more than 600 ICU beds will be added in the hospitals of Delhi. The Central government has assured to provide 750 more beds at the DRDO facility.”He said that Delhi has enough ICU beds for the time being but highlighted that in the light of a huge increase in fresh Covid-19 cases the city’s hospitals are facing a shortage of ICU beds. He said, “There is an increase in Covid-19 cases in Delhi but there are enough beds available for now. There is a shortage of ICU beds but we are looking into it. There are many cases in Delhi, our doctors & health workers are responding to it very well.”Delhi has seen a continuous rise in the number of coronavirus cases and deaths since October 29. Between November 1 and November 15, the city recorded close to a 100,000 fresh cases and more than 1,000 deaths. The chief minister has called for an all-party meeting on Thursday to discuss Delhi’s current coronavirus situation.The Delhi government has also issued an order to limit the number of guests at marriage ceremonies. Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia has assured shopkeepers that there will be no lockdown. Sisodia said that the government plans on strict implementation of Covid-19 preventive measures at busy markets to curb the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/measures-being-taken-to-address-shortage-in-number-of-icu-beds-kejriwal/story-nZuzaCK1CKa0Dymkqp9YiI.html
18-11-2020||Chandigarh||Cross FIRs registered in Chandigarh as two groups clash, seven arrested||Police have arrested seven people following cross complaints of assault by two groups in Mauli Jagran.Those arrested have been identified as Ranjit Singh, 27, Dharampal, 27, and Bachan, 45, of the first group, and Shiva, 18, Raj Chander, 20, Puran, 26, and Mukesh, 22, of the other party.The cross complaints were filed by Ranjit, a driver by profession, and Shiva, a fruit seller.Ranjit told the police that around 10pm on November 16, a group pelted his house with stones, damaged his car and hurled abuses at him. When he came out, Shiva, Raj Chander, Puran, Karan, Mukesh and Budh Pal assaulted him. A case under Sections 147, 148, 149, 427, 341, 506 and 452 of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Mauli Jagran police station following his complaint.Similarly, Shiva alleged that on November 16, he, along with his friends, was going to drop someone after a party, when Ranjit, Dharampal, Bachan and their aides assaulted him after dragging him inside a house. Therefore, another case under Sections 147, 148, 149, 365 and 506 of the IPC was registered at the Mauli Jagran station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cross-firs-registered-in-chandigarh-as-two-groups-clash-seven-arrested/story-DrJnpn5GKRLZbSvhbbzLtK.html
18-11-2020||Chandigarh||Top seeds Aditya, Harleen clinch titles of AITA U-16 tournament||Aditya Chauhan and Harleen Kaur Dhanda outplayed their opponents in the Under-16 boys’ and girls’ finals, respectively, on the final day of the AITA Championship Series (CS-3) Tennis Tournament at the CLTA Stadium, Sector 10, on Wednesday. Playing in the boys’ final, Aditya outclassed Aarush Sharma 6-1, 6-2 to clinch the title win. CLTA trainee and top seed Aditya played high-quality tennis and maintained his momentum throughout the match. Using his experience and variety of shots, Aditya won the first set easily 6-1. In the second set, he showed energetic game to close the set and match against Aarush 6-2. In the girls’ final, top seed Harleen Kaur Dhanda defeated Radhika Vasudeva in straight sets of 6-4, 6-1. Shining equally in the first set with Radhika, Harleen was dominant with her aggressive ground strokes and closed the second set and match easily 6-1. Results: (Finals): Boys’ Under-16: Aditya Chauhan (HR) [1] beat Aarush Sharma (PB) [5] 6-1, 6-2; Girls’ Under-16: Harleen Kaur Dhanda [1] (HR) beat Radhika Vasudeva (CH) [2] 6-4, 6-1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/top-seeds-aditya-harleen-clinch-titles-of-aita-u-16-tournament/story-xwCEZyrncpLitrmHcrqI5I.html
18-11-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab to launch special scheme for physically challenged||The state cabinet on Wednesday cleared a new scheme, the Punjab Divyangjan Shaktikaran Yojna (PDSY), to be implemented in a phased manner with the first phase of the scheme aimed at strengthening the existing programmes to ensure their benefits reach people with disabilities In the second phase, 13 new interventions are proposed to be undertaken for the empowerment of such persons. This was decided at a virtual cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh in Chandigarh. The scheme will fill the backlog of people with disabilities (PwDs) in government jobs as the department of employment generation will give thrust on filling vacant posts of PwDs in six months. A consultative group headed by the minister for social security and women and child development, with all cabinet ministers as members will supervise the implementation of the scheme. In Phase-I, the scheme will focus on providing PwDs the benefits of existing schemes being run by government departments, covering services, benefits and rights in respect of healthcare, education, employment, safety and dignity in all spheres of life. Phase-II of the PDSY shall have new initiatives and programmes to cover those aspects and needs which have hitherto not been covered under any existing centrally/state sponsored scheme or PwD-oriented schemes by different departments. The scheme focuses on convergence and integration of existing schemes and programmes to maximise their benefit for PwDs. In Phase-II, the 13 interventions include the treatment on suffering disability, mobility aids and assistive devices, five days of special leave in a calendar year, free education, empowerment of disabled girl students, recreational activities, home schooling for children with special needs, and state award for outstanding work done by teachers with disability. Rules amended to give jobs to siblings of Galwan heroes The cabinet approved amendment to rules to provide jobs in the state services to married siblings of three bachelor battle casualties of the Galwan Valley. The decision was taken in recognition of the supreme sacrifice made by sepoy Gurtej Singh, sepoy Gurbinder Singh and lance naik Saleem Khan. According to existing rules, only dependent family members or next of kin of battle casualties are eligible for jobs, but in the case of these three men, since no dependent family member exists, the government decided to make an exception and give jobs to their married brothers. The spokesperson said that Gurpreet Singh, the brother of sepoy Gurtej Singh; Gurpreet Singh, the brother of sepoy Gurbinder Singh; and Niyamat Ali, the brother of lance naik Saleem Khan, had applied for appointment in the state services despite not falling under the definition of dependent members of war heroes. More posts for govt medical colleges in Patiala, Amritsar To effectively cope with the Covid-19 pandemic, the cabinet approved the creation of 16 posts of assistant professor (super specialist) in the departments of cardiology, endocrinology, neurology and nephrology of the government medical colleges of Patiala and Amritsar. Temporary conversion of 25 vacant posts of direct quota of super-specialist professor and associate professor to assistant professor on contract in these two GMCs was also approved. The filling of 168 posts of technician in paramedical cadres in these medical colleges was also approved. Of these, 98 posts will be created and 70 vacant posts will be revived.Rules for availing 2% addl borrowing amended To obtain additional borrowing of 2% of the GSDP, the cabinet amended the Inter-State Migrant Workers (Regulation of Employment & Condition of Service) Punjab Rules, 1983. Acceding to the demands raised by industrialists at various platforms, the cabinet decided to insert Rule 53A in the Inter-State Migrant Workers (Regulation of Employment & Condition of Service) Punjab Rules, 1983, to allow maintaining prescribed registers in electronic/digital format to reduce the compliance burden of industries. Instructions for additional borrowing of 2% of GSDP were received from the Union finance ministry (department of expenditure) on May 17 in which certain conditions were imposed for obtaining additional 2% borrowing. One of the conditions was to have automatic renewals under the labour laws. Prison development board rules approved The cabinet approved the Punjab Prisons Development Board Rules, 2020, under the Punjab Prisons Development Board Act, 2020 (Punjab Act No. 10 of 2020), for carrying out the objectives of the board to ensure its smooth day-to-day functioning. 20% hike in salary of OSDs approved An increase of 20%, from Rs 50,000 to Rs 60,000 as fixed remuneration payable to OSDs (litigation) in different state departments was cleared. Eleven temporary posts of OSD (litigation) had been created in the Punjab civil secretariat in the office of chief secretary, departments of general administration, home affairs and justice, water resources, social justice, empowerment and minorities, rural development and panchayat, food civil supplies and consumer affairs, public works, water supply and sanitation, health and family welfare and education. Initially, a fixed salary of Rs 35,000 was given to the OSD (litigation). Thereafter, as per the decision taken in the cabinet meeting on December 5, 2016, the salary of OSD (litigation) was increased from Rs 35,000 to Rs 50,000 per month. After 2016, no increase has been made in this fixed salary/retainership fee. Single-window policy for telecom infrastructure With a view to creating robust telecom infrastructure with adequate bandwidth to promote information technology, e-governance and e-commerce in the state, the cabinet approved new guidelines under a single-window policy to replace the existing norms. The new guidelines will supersede the telecom policy notified on December 5, 2013, and December 11, 2015. This decision would enable speedier permissions for the installation of telecom towers/masts/poles and right of way (row) clearances for laying optical fiber cables. There would be no NOC requirement from AAI and NOC from the Punjab Pollution Control Board for installing generator sets. According to the new policy, online clearances will be given through the Punjab Business First Portal. State agricultural education Act deferred to June 2021 In view of the disruption caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, the cabinet decided to defer implementation of the Punjab State Council for Agricultural Education Act, 2017, till June 30, 2021. The objective of the council is to specify the minimum standards and guidelines for imparting agricultural education and training in state colleges and universities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-to-launch-special-scheme-for-physically-challenged/story-DDl6O9lGMhxvZtOK2oetrM.html
18-11-2020||City||Pedestrian killed by truck in Pune||Pune: A 22-year-old pedestrian was killed after being knocked down by a speeding container truck in Bhosari on Tuesday evening. The deceased, identified as Bharat Bhima Gajre of Mohannagar, was hit by the heavy vehicle near Samrajya chowk on the Pune-Nashik highway. According to sub-inspector S Savarde of Bhosari police station, the driver, identified as Bharat Angadrao Peste (38) of Ambejogai in Beed district, was arrested under the Motor Vehicles Act and the Indian Penal Code (IPC). In another incident, a 20-year-old man was booked on Tuesday for hitting his car against the motorcycle ridden by a police constable attached to the Pimpri-Chinchwad police commissionerate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pedestrian-killed-by-truck-in-pune/story-fzOpWY6uEoZPie8PiOzF5K.html
18-11-2020||Noida||‘No restrictions at Noida-Delhi border, tests at checkpoints can increase’: Noida DM Suhas LY||Gautam Buddha Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY on Wednesday said that the random Covid-19 tests at the Noida-Delhi border could be further increased. Gautam Buddh Nagar health officials have begun random Covid-19 testing of people at Delhi-Noida-Direct (DND) Flyway and at Chilla on Wednesday.Gautam Buddh Nagar health officials have begun this exercise as Delhi recorded more than 90,000 new cases over the last two weeks along with more than a thousand deaths.Suhas termed the exercise as a precautionary measure and said, “It’s a precautionary step as there’s been a rise in Covid-19 cases. The border is open and there are no restrictions. The check is a random, targeted group sampling to get an assessment. It has been done earlier too. Tests can be further increased.”It was announced on Tuesday that health officials would begin random Covid-19 testing of individuals at the Noida-Delhi border, following a meeting of the district’s senior administration and health officials. The DM said that the tests are being conducted to assess the spread of Covid-19 and use the data to help employers and organisations which employ people who commute between Gautam Buddh Nagar, Delhi and adjoining areas.Noida has recorded more than 20,500 cases and 70 deaths and reported 141 fresh cases on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/no-restrictions-at-noida-delhi-border-tests-at-checkpoints-can-increase-noida-dm-suhas-ly/story-9SVPOxYP8lfEaixGkZPJ6L.html
18-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi L-G tells DDA to remove debris from Yamuna floodplains||Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal has directed the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) to remove debris from the Yamuna floodplains and install CCTVs for surveillance.The directions were issued to DDA officials in a meeting on Wednesday where the L-G reviewed the progress of the ongoing restoration work of the riverfront.Baijal tweeted, “Chaired meeting with @official_dda to review progress of Restoration and Rejuvenation of Yamuna River Front. Emphasised upon time bound completion of landscaping, greening and plantation in the area to restore wetlands & riverine ecosystem.”“Directed removal of malba on top priority, CCTV based surveillance for protection of floodplains,” the Delhi L-G tweeted. DDA officials say that routine drives are being carried out to remove encroachment from the river floodplain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-l-g-tells-dda-to-remove-debris-from-yamuna-floodplains/story-jzGqVfeDrBjz3GFyMh8YoN.html
18-11-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Govt encourages women’s self-help groups to boost Covid-19-hit economy||Self-help groups (SHGs) for women, especially in the hilly areas of Uttarakhand, are playing a major role in reviving the Covid-19-hit economy. Identifying their potential in boosting the economy, the government has also taken some significant steps to encourage these SHGs. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat has also been emphasising on involving more women SHGs in economic activities. Traditionally, women in hilly areas of the state are majorly involved in agricultural activities, which Rawat said the government wants to change, by providing them skill development training through the rural growth centres and centres of excellence. According to government officials, there are at least 30,000 SHGs involved in various economic activities ranging from producing organic agricultural products to making puja material and prasad for the shrines of Kedarnath and Badrinath. Also Read: ICAR looks at bringing agri-education in sync with National Education PolicyAlok Bhatt, chief minister Rawat’s economic advisor, said that the government is taking major steps to increase women’s involvement in the state’s economic activities. “Their role cannot be ignored at all because the state itself was formed majorly due to their struggle. Also, they play an important role in almost all economic activities in the hilly areas,” said Bhatt. “Keeping all this in mind, the government has taken various important steps like providing the SHGs interest-free loans of up to Rs5 lakh and even directly buying their products worth up to Rs1 lakh. This is meant to promote them and involve more women in economic activities,” he added. “In the state foundation day event held in the summer capital of Gairsain, he had said that he wants to remove the bundle of hay from the heads of women in hilly areas by providing them skill development training. This would help them find a livelihood apart from just cutting grass for cattle of working in fields,” he said. Stressing the importance of SHGs, the chief minister’s economic advisor also informed that the rural growth centres opened by the government in migration-affected areas of the state also largely dependent on the SHGs. “Centres which focus on various economic activities like running a collective dairy, poultry farm or wool collection centre majorly involve women. The government believes that if the women are able to generate income, then their family’s financial condition will improve, which in turn will improve the economic condition of the state,” said Bhatt. Hailing the role of women and women-centric SHGs in boosting the state economy, MC Sati, an economic expert and professor of Economics in Garhwal Central University, Srinagar in Pauri Garhwal district, said, “Women in the state contribute to 56% of labour, which is the highest rate in the country. So, their role in economic development can’t be ignored.” “Also, with the migration of male members of the family from hilly areas, women are the ones who are involved in all economic activities like agricultural labour and selling of agricultural produce. They are the backbone of the hill economy,” said Sati, adding that promoting SHGs will largely help in improving the economy amid the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-govt-encourages-women-s-self-help-groups-to-boost-covid-19-hit-economy/story-HFcHyJdooMfFkM00sBwXiO.html
18-11-2020||City||Humiliated by wife, in-laws, labourer ends life||A 34-year-old labourer ended his life after allegedly being humiliated by his wife, sister-in-law and other relatives, in Dashmesh Nagar of Mullanpur on Tuesday.As per information, the victim’s wife had left home after a spat on Dussehra and gone to her sister’s house. On Tuesday, the victim went to bring her back but she, along with her relatives, allegedly humiliated him. Dejected, he came back home and hanged himself.The victim’s father revealed that the couple had got married nine years ago and has a five-year-old son and two-year-old daughter.Based on the father’s complaint, a case under Sections 306 (abetment to suicide) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the victim’s wife and four of her relatives.Assistant sun-inspector Gursewak Singh, who is investigating the case, said a hunt is on for the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/humiliated-by-wife-in-laws-labourer-ends-life/story-HZr2NZZUoCHwaaHTdSKRcJ.html
18-11-2020||Pune||Tanveer Sanman prize money to support theatre backstage workers hit by Covid||PUNE Tanveer Sanman, an annual event, organised by Roopvedh Pratisthan, has been postponed due to Covid-19 restrictions. The price money of the award and the expenses of holding the function will be spent to benefit backstage workers of theatre in Pune and Mumbai.Roopvedh Pratisthan was established in 2004 by late Dr Shriram Lagoo, a stalwart in Marathi theatre and cinema, who is often known best for his role as the “Natsamrat”.Tanveer Sanman is held in memory of Dr Lagoo and his wife Deepa’s son Tanveer who died in an incident. The award ceremony is mostly organised at Yashwantrao Chavan Auditorium in Kothrud, for the past 16 years. The 2020 award ceremony was held online and instead of honouring members from the theatre fraternity, the prize amount of Rs 5 lakh was allocated for the benefit of backstage workers.“Dr Shriram Lagoo was aware of the economic instability that behind-the-scenes artists face, and for many years he has contributed towards the artists’ retirement fund from the money he received for his theatrical performances,” said Deepa Lagoo, his wife and secretary of Roopvedh Pratisthan.“This year, as theatres are closed due to the pandemic, it has affected many backstage workers who are often on daily wages. Hence, the award money and function expenses was given to “Marathi Natak Samoha”’ who are working for the benefit of backstage workers,” she said.Since May 2020, the “Marathi Natak Samoha” has been taking care of 341 backstage workers by giving them Rs 2,500 per month as an aid.Present for the online function was theatre director Chandrakant Kulkarni who spoke about the problems that backstage workers faced and how the organisation helped them during these tough times.Actor Prashant Damle said, “ Every person working behind the scenes in theatre is important. They have specialised skill sets that help us perform better in front of the audience. They are part of the theatre family and it is our duty to protect them and come to their aid when in need.”Tanveer Sanman comes with price money of Rs 1.5 lakh and insignia. It has been awarded to Ibrahim Alkazi, Bhalchandra Pendharkar, Vijay Tendulkar, Satyadev Dubey, Vijaya Mehta, GP Deshpande, Kanhayyalal, Sulbha Deshpande, Satish Alekar and Naseeruddin Shah.Along with senior artistes, since 2005, a newcomer artiste is awarded the Tanveer Rang Dharmi Award, which has an amount of Rs 40,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tanveer-sanman-postponed-prize-money-to-aid-theatre-backstage-workers/story-afORvyGqTjEYyVvwJ7DzxM.html
18-11-2020||Chandigarh||Former Kullu BJP MLA Chander Sen Thakur dies of Covid-19||Chander Sen Thakur, 76, a former BJP legislator from Kullu, died due to Covid-19, his family said on Wednesday. Chander Sen had been ailing for the past two months but tested positive for Covid-19 three days ago. He was in home isolation and died at his native village of Haripur Dashaal. Thakur began his political career as a student activist and was one of the founder members the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad at Government College, Mandi. He remained a Haripur Dashaal panchayat pradhan for five terms. He was elected to the Vidhan Sabha on a BJP ticket from Kullu in 1998 and remained a staunch supporter of former chief minister Shanta Kumar. Mourning his death, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur described Chander Sen as a dedicated soldier of the party. State BJP vice-president Ram Singh recalled Chander Sen’s contribution to social service through student politics after which he became an RSS and Jana Sangh activist. He was jailed during the Emergency. Chander Sen was the founder Kullu district president of the BJP in 1977. He remained state general secretary of the party and vice-chairman of the Horticulture Produce Marketing Committee in 1998 when Prem Kumar Dhumal was the chief minister. He vociferously raised issues related to fruit growers in the state assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/former-kullu-bjp-mla-chander-sen-thakur-dies-of-covid-19/story-Dd8rItE1loTax8kzFwGe7N.html
18-11-2020||City||Army officer injured in grenade blast on LoC||A captain of the Indian Army was injured in an accidental grenade blast along the Line of Control (LoC) in Poonch district during the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday. Officials said the incident took place around 12.30am Wednesday in Balakote area of BG sector when Captain Saurav Kumar, 27, of 19 Kumaon was injured. He was shifted to Army Hospital in Rajouri for treatment. He is stated to be out of danger.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/army-officer-injured-in-grenade-blast-on-loc/story-XVuWogaDn2o4O8AN4sVAfN.html
18-11-2020||Kolkata||BJP worker murdered in north Bengal; party accuses TMC||A Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker died in a hospital at Tufanganj in Cooch Behar district of north Bengal on Wednesday morning after he was injured in a clash between members of two community clubs. The deceased, Kalachand Karmakar, was a polling booth level secretary of the BJP. Malati Rava Ray, president of the BJP’s Cooch Behar district unit, alleged that Karmakar was killed by criminals shielded by the Trinamool Congress (TMC). “Two local residents, Biplab Karmakar and Parimal Burman, were injured when they tried to save the BJP worker. They are admitted in Tufanganj hospital. Our workers are being targeted regularly,” said Ray. “The clash was triggered by a quarrel between members of two community clubs that had organised Kali Puja. One person has been arrested. We are conducting a probe,” a police officer from Tufangunj police station said on condition of anonymity as he is not authorised to talk to the media. Also Read: Ahead of 2021 West Bengal polls, BJP tasks top office-bearers to submit ‘ground report’ on strategy needed to winAbdul Jalil Ahmed, the TMC district general secretary, said, “The clash had nothing to do with politics. There was a quarrel between members of the two community clubs. TMC is not involved in any way.” BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya alleged in Kolkata that Karmakar became a target because he was polling booth-level worker. “Our party is strengthening its base in all polling booth areas. The ruling party is trying to foil our strategy by targeting booth-level workers.”While talking to the local media, Cooch Behar superintendent of police K Kannan said, “The deceased was 55 years old. When there was a quarrel between members of the two clubs he tried to intervene and stop them. Someone punched Karmakar in the face and he fell unconscious. He was declared dead on arrival at the hospital.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bjp-worker-murdered-in-north-bengal-party-accuses-tmc/story-Xvuyq6EaWzSOGB4M0hHIkK.html
18-11-2020||Pune||Security guard set on fire for objecting to man urinating on car in Pune||An auto-rickshaw driver allegedly set ablaze a security guard of a private firm in Pune after the latter tried to stop him from urinating on a high-end car of the firm’s owner, police said on Wednesday.The security guard, Shankar Wayphalkar (41), received burn injuries in the incident that took place around 1 pm on Tuesday in Bhosari industrial area area here in Maharashtra.The auto-rickshaw driver, Mahendra Balu Kadam (31), was later arrested and booked under Indian Penal Code sections 307 (attempt to murder) and other relevant provisions, a police official said.“On Tuesday afternoon, Wayphalkar was on duty at the main gate of the firm. Kadam, who happened to be passing by, stopped his auto-rickshaw there and started urinating on the SUV belonging to the firm’s owner,” the official from Bhosari MIDC police station said.When Wayphalkar objected to it, the auto-rickshaw driver got angry.“Kadam left the place at that time but returned around 4.30 pm with a bottle of petrol. He poured it on Wayphalkar and set him ablaze,” the official said.The security guard received burn injuries and is currently undergoing treatment in a private hospital here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/security-guard-set-on-fire-for-objecting-to-man-urinating-on-car-in-pune/story-p6i3faAyGCcM70TbM0TS5O.html
18-11-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Two men slash teenager’s nose for resisting their attempt to rape her||Two men allegedly slashed a 17-year-old girl’s nose after she resisted their attempt to rape her in Uttarakhand’s Bageshwar district on Monday night. The two also attacked her parents for confronting them.The two, who are the girl’s neighbours, are on the run. Taradutt Pathak, a local officer probing the case, said the two barged into her home and tried to rape the girl. “The girl and her parents tried to resist their attempt in which they slashed her nose with a sharp weapon and attacked her parents.”Pathak said the two also stole jewellery worth about Rs70,000 and Rs20,000 in cash before fleeing. He added the two have been booked for rape and loot. “The girl and her parents are undergoing treatment at a hospital. The girl has received 16 stitches but is out of danger. The accused will soon be nabbed,” said Pathak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-two-men-slash-teenager-s-nose-for-resisting-their-attempt-to-rape-her/story-h0fsiC2VKGD0jOe5jj9o4N.html
18-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Only 50 people allowed at weddings, 200-limit revised to tackle spike in Covid-19 cases||Delhi lieutenant governor (L-G) Anil Baijal has approved the Delhi government’s proposal to impose a cap of 50 attendees at weddings in the city in the light of the severe spike in Covid-19 cases, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Wednesday.Senior officials in the L-G office confirmed the development and said that the formal order is likely to be issued later in the day.Baijal is the chairperson of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is the vice-chairperson.Also Read: Increased testing, more beds: How Delhi is planning to fight Covid-19 third waveKejriwal had, on Tuesday, said the government has decided to withdraw its order relaxing the cap on the number of wedding attendees, which would effectively reduce the maximum limit from 200 to 50. The relaxation order was issued on October 31.Kejriwal also said that he would request the Centre to allow the Delhi government to temporarily shut down markets identified as potential Covid-19 hot spots for violation of social distancing norms and other Covid-19-related regulations.The proposal regarding the market-related restriction has been forwarded by the L-G office to the Union home ministry but no response has been received on that yet, said a senior official.Sisodia also said on Wednesday, “Delhi government has no intentions of imposing any lockdown. We believe the solution to Covid-19 is in better management of healthcare resources. We have done our best in terms of healthcare management so far and we will continue our efforts. If needed, regulations will be increased in some markets. We have sought permission for that from the Centre. It should not be seen as a lockdown.”The modalities of this plan will be chalked out after getting the Centre’s approval, said senior Delhi government officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-50-people-allowed-at-weddings-limit-revised-to-tackle-spike-in-covid-19-cases/story-fJGc1PrOXAk1MXXfCHJd0I.html
18-11-2020||Kolkata||‘TMC govt did ‘cheap politics’ with Soumitra Chatterjee’s body’, alleges Cong’s Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury||West Bengal Congress chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Wednesday alleged that the TMC government in the state did “cheap politics” with the mortal remains of legendary actor Soumitra Chatterjee, while not giving him due respect during his lifetime.Chowdhury met the thespian’s daughter Poulomi Basu at their Golf Green residence in south Kolkata.“The Trinamool Congress did not give him due respect after coming to power in the state in 2011. They had removed him from various committees. But after his death on November 15, they did cheap politics with his body,” the Congress Lok Sabha leader told reporters.Chatterjee’s body was kept at Rabindra Sadan in central Kolkata for people to pay their last tributes. It was then taken to Keoratala crematorium as thousands of people, including Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and senior Left leaders, walked in a procession. He was cremated with full state honours.“We think Soumitra Babu’s vast experience could have been used in a better way by this government but he was kept out of the state’s key committees on art and culture,” Chowdhury said.The state government should take an initiative to build an archive of the Dada Saheb Phalke awardee’s life and works, the Baharampur MP said.When asked about Chowdhury’s criticism of the state government, Basu said, “We don’t want to get into all these.” A TMC leader, however, termed Chowdhury’s criticism as “extremely unfortunate and in poor taste”.“While everyone in West Bengal grieved on the day of Soumitra Chatterjee’s death, many hit the streets to bid adieu to ‘Apu’ but Chowdhury has chosen the occasion to do politics after three days,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/tmc-govt-did-cheap-politics-with-soumitra-chatterjee-s-body-alleges-cong-s-adhir-ranjan-chowdhury/story-rBvqE765Oa0LgrypfPSTDK.html
18-11-2020||Patna||Missing Bihar trader found murdered in Gopalganj||A 32-year-old Gopalganj-based readymade garments trader, who went missing on Monday evening, was found murdered at Dighwa-Dubauli Block in Gopalganj district.His body was recovered from a drain located near the Block office. Police registered a murder case after they found a fatal injury mark on the back of his head and an injury mark from a blunt object on his neck. The deceased is identified as Sanjit Kumar Gupta, a resident of Sirsa village. Police said he was running a readymade garment shop at Dighwa-Dubauli locality under Baikunthpur police station.His family members found his phone switched off at night when they started calling him. On Tuesday, his brother lodged a missing complaint with the concerned police station in this connection. Gupta had left his shop at about 7.45 pm for home but didn’t reach there. The next day on Wednesday morning, Local people called police to inform them about a body found in a nearby ditch.Gupta’s family was then informed and the body was handed over. No cellphone or identity proof was found on or near the body. Police said the killer wanted to conceal the identity of the deceased. During preliminary investigation, it appeared that the victim was either abducted while on his way home or was convinced by someone known to him to drive to some place other than his house, said police officials. Also Read: Two Dalit sisters found dead in Uttar Pradesh“The reason behind his murder is yet to be ascertained. We are collecting available CCTV footage and police teams have been constituted to identify and arrest the accused persons,” said Gopalganj SP Manoj Tiwari, adding that a dog squad has also been pressed into the service.The police suspect that the assailants were aware of Gupta’s movements. Meanwhile, the family members of the victim have said that he didn’t have enmity with anyone. Also Read: Shekhar Suman demands apology from those who accused him of using Sushant Singh Rajput’s death for political motivesEarlier on Tuesday, Nalanda police recovered the body of a kidnapped 5-year-old boy from the outskirts of Jalalpur village under the limits of Karay-Parsuray police station. The child, identified as Dilkhush Kumar, was kidnapped while playing outside his residence in the same village on Monday evening. Following the incident, irate villagers attacked the policemen and snatched two INSAS rifles from them, later recovered. Nalanda SP Nilesh Kumar said an old enmity between two families over land dispute was the reason behind the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/missing-bihar-trader-found-murdered-in-gopalganj/story-fZ9gSKweepOuO1AhATsMWL.html
18-11-2020||Mumbai||Bhima Koregaon case: Varavara Rao to be shifted to Nanavati Hospital for 15 days||The Bombay high court on Wednesday directed the transfer of jailed ailing Telugu poet P Varavara Rao, 81, from Mumbai’s Taloja Prison to the Nanavati Hospital for 15 days for his proper medical care. The order was issued in response to an interim prayer of Rao’s wife, P Hemlatha, who sought the transfer.Lawyer Indira Jaising earlier told the court that Rao’s condition was deteriorating and his family feared he could die if he is not shifted to the hospital. She also sought interim relief in the form of bail citing Rao’s condition. The court said it will hear the bail plea on December 9 while seeking Rao’s medical report after he is shifted and treated at the Nanavati Hospital. It added Rao should not be discharged without informing the court.Rao is among over a dozen scholars and rights activists arrested for their alleged links with Maoists and for allegedly instigating violence at Bhima Koregaon near Pune in 2018. The violence was triggered during the 200th-anniversary celebration of a battle where Dalits fought with British forces and defeated an upper-caste ruler. The activists are accused of making provocative speeches that allegedly triggered the violence.Also Read: Maharashtra govt says Varavara Rao ‘fully conscious’, HC seeks reportsHemlatha moved the court last week after learning about Rao’s deteriorating health at the prison hospital and that it did not have the required facilities to treat him.Jaising submitted that when Rao was arrested two years ago, he was healthy. She added his condition deteriorated inside the jail and he had to be admitted to the jail hospital. Jaising said co-accused Vernon Gonsalves and Arun Ferreira took care of Rao but they are not medically trained. She added that the discharge reports of Rao after his previous hospitalisations were not provided to his family and it is clueless about his condition. Jaising blamed the state’s negligence for a head injury Rao has suffered while arguing for the need to shift her client to the Nanavati Hospital.Jaising said Rao’s mental health was failing and his ability to eat was also compromised. She added due to other complications, his proper care could be taken only at a super specialty hospital like Nanavati. Jaising said video consultations by the Nanavati doctors were insufficient and he needed to be examined physically for his neurological and urology problems.Jaising submitted Rao earlier tested positive for Covid-19 and that his family was worried that he may suffer complications in the form of organ failure given his age.Additional solicitor general Anil Singh, who appeared for the National Investigation Agency, opposed the plea and said that Rao could be shifted to J J Hospital as all the tests could be conducted there as it is well-equipped.The court observed that government hospitals were overburdened due to Covid-19 and asked Singh whether he will admit his relatives to J J or St George’s hospitals. He responded by saying that it was not that people were not being admitted and treated there. Singh added shifting Rao to the Nanavati Hospital would set a wrong precedent and hence it was better to shift him to a government hospital.Jaising objected and said Rao’s family found him earlier in a pitiable condition at the J J Hospital. She added he was lying in a pool of urine, which indicated the government hospital was unable to take Rao’s proper care.Jaising said if Rao died for the want of proper medical treatment, it would amount to custodial death. She wondered who would be held responsible for it. “Death is inevitable but there should be some dignity. It is an emotional matter.”She referred to Rao’s latest medical report from the Nanavati Hospital and added it suggested he may have brain atrophy, which could result in organ failure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bhima-koregaon-case-hc-directs-maharashtra-to-shift-varavara-rao-to-hospital-for-15-days/story-JqwIm9FSmiJ5CDMVC7kV3J.html
18-11-2020||Ranchi||2 infants from Jharkhand govt aided agency die at Jamshedpur hospital, 4 others critical||Two infants from Jharkhand government aided special adoption agency (SAA) Sahyog Village died in Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College Hospital (MGMMCH) here in Jamshedpur on Wednesday wee hours while four more infants were undergoing treatment in critical condition, officials said on Wednesday. “A one-year-old girl and a two-month-old boy died at MGMMCH between 1 am and 4 am today. The girl was admitted on Monday late evening while the boy, along with four other infants, was admitted on Tuesday. Of the four undergoing treatment, one is one-year-old while three others are under 6-months-old. The girl played with us till Monday evening and later had to be admitted following complaints of loose motion,” Gurvinder Kaur, manager of SAA Sahyog Village in Sonari locality here, said. She said food poisoning was unlikely to be the cause less as the infants were fed only lactogen and no other food. “We presently have 18 infants at Sahyog Village in Jamshedpur. Such incidents had never happened earlier here. The deceased girl was from an unwed mother whose delivery was arranged by us while the deceased boy was found abandoned near Baug-E-Jamshed here,” said Gurvinder, adding that she had verbally informed the concerned officials after admitting the girl on Monday late evening.Sahyog Village is a Delhi-based NGO run by philanthropist Dr Mankeet Singh ‘Pardeshi’ which runs state government aided SAAs – Sahyog Villages – in Jamshedpur, Ranchi, Khunti, Bokaro and Simdega.Also Read: Chhath Puja: UP govt urges people to celebrate at home, follow Covid protocolEarlier, Sahyog Village centre in Khunti had to be closed down following the deaths of two infants due to underweight complications in August 2018. One of the infants was a six-month-old girl, who was shifted by the Ranchi child welfare committee (CWC) from missionaries of charity (MoC) run shelter home--Shishu Bhawan, Hinoo-- to Sahyog Village following an alleged baby- selling incident in July.East Singhbhum district child protection officer (DCPO) Dr Chanchal Kumari said the six infants were admitted to MGMMCH after complaints of dysentery. Also Read: Maoists kill clerk, set 2 vehicles on fire in Jharkhand, extortion bid likely“Two of them died at wee hours today. I have talked with the MGMMCH superintendent and the process is on to shift four infants – undergoing treatment in critical condition – to the Tata Main Hospital (TMH) for better treatment. I have also directed Sahyog Village manager Gurvinder Kaur and centre doctor to medically check all the other infants in the shelter home,” said Dr Chanchal.District CWC (child welfare committee) chairperson Pushpa Rani Tirkey and member Lakhi Das, who visited the infants under treatment last night, said the infants could have been saved had they been shifted to the ICU yesterday.“Dr Murmu in MGMMCH had prescribed that the deceased girl should be immediately shifted to ICU on Tuesday morning. But she was kept in the ward without any light and oxygen before finally being shifted to ICU only late night when we took up the matter of deteriorating condition of the girl with the deputy superintendent Dr NP Chowdhary,” said Tirkey. Dr Chowdhary said they were enquiring into the matter and will respond only after ascertaining the details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/2-infants-from-jharkhand-govt-aided-agency-die-at-jamshedpur-hospital-4-others-critical/story-5MG5hoA3UTtu6RvlxRma1O.html
18-11-2020||Mumbai||Sedition case: Mumbai Police issue third notice to actor Kangana Ranaut, sister||The Mumbai Police have summoned actor Kangana Ranaut and her sister, Rangoli Chandel, for the third time to record their statements on November 23 and 24 in connection with the case of sedition and for allegedly promoting enmity between different communities. The police filed the case on the directions of Bandra metropolitan magistrate court.“We have issued the third notice and asked them to join and cooperate with the Bandra police in the investigation,” said deputy police commissioner Abhishek Trimukhe.Also Read: Shiv Sena remains a Hindutva party, will not play Hindutva politics: Sanjay RautPolice said Ranaut’s lawyer, Rizwan Siddiqui, earlier replied to the previous two notices saying his clients will be unable to appear for questioning as they were busy with the wedding of their brother in Himachal Pradesh until November 15.Munawar Ali, the complainant in the case, has accused Ranaut of creating “a bad image of Bollywood in the minds of people” and communal divide and rift between the people of two communities. In his complaint, he said Ranaut has been “maliciously bringing religion in all her tweets”. Ali has alleged that Chandel, who works as Ranaut’s manager, has also tweeted with an intention “to create a communal rift”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-issue-third-notice-to-actor-kangana-ranaut-and-her-sister-in-sedition-case/story-7Z3KkNFKHfqh52EXoURjSL.html
18-11-2020||Ranchi||Maoists kill clerk, set 2 vehicles on fire in Jharkhand, extortion bid likely||Maoists killed a clerk of a private bridge construction company and set two vehicles engaged in construction work on fire in Peshrar block of Jharkhand’s Lohardaga district, police said on Wednesday. This is the second Maoist action in the past three days. On Sunday night, Maoists allegedly killed a 55-year-old villager, identified as Jagir Bhagat, accusing him of being a police informer in Mungo village under Serendag police station of the district. The incident took place on Tuesday evening and the police recovered the body of the clerk on Wednesday morning when it rushed to the spot to investigate into the incident. Lohardaga superintendent of police (SP), Priyanka Meena, said, “One person was killed, while two vehicles were burnt in the incident. The incident is being probed.” The SP, however, refrained from giving details about the police action against rising Maoist activities in the district. A bridge is being constructed over Onegada river, just around one kilometer away from the Peshrar police station, at a cost of Rs 2.5 crore. The workers engaged in the construction told police that a group of armed Maoists arrived at the worksite and set an excavator and tractor on fire. Then, the Maoists took the clerk, who was identified as Vicky Gupta, with them and shot him dead, the workers told police. Also Read: Lalu Prasad stays in bungalow, allottee in guest house; BJP questions ‘irony’Police is suspecting levy as the reason behind the incident. A team led by sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) has been sent to the site for investigation into the matter. Maoists’ incidents continue unabated in Jharkhand. As per the website of Jharkhand police, a total of 231 cases related to Maoists were registered in the state till September this year. With 33 cases, June registered the highest number of Maoist incidents, while 32 cases were recorded in August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/maoists-kill-clerk-set-2-vehicles-on-fire-in-jharkhand-extortion-bid-likely/story-tEdTUuesEkPBYjYpRCTFFN.html
18-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: BMC to hold special cleaning drive at public places||Starting this month, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has planned special cleanliness drives covering gardens, markets, drains, roads, and footpaths across Mumbai. The drives will be carried out once a month and a day or two before national festivals like Republic Day, and Independence Day. Officials from all 24 administrative wards in the city will involve citizens to identify spots in their wards that need to be cleaned.Civic officials said there will be intensified cleaning at public places on these days while routine cleaning will be carried out on the following days. Suresh Kakani, the additional municipal commissioner, said, “Just the way we clean our homes before any function or a festival, the same concept is being followed here. It is to instil the idea of regular cleanliness among people. No additional staff will be hired for the cleaning but our own employees will be deployed. Officials from all departments will closely monitor these initiatives.”A civic official said, “The plan to devote a day for cleanliness will be instilled among citizens as well as our staff. This initiative is different from other such initiatives as it involves citizens to ensure that cleanliness is maintained in their areas. Routine cleaning will not be compromised.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-bmc-to-hold-special-cleaning-drive-at-public-places/story-bbeBQ1D7Cmj9wtivyxQTCJ.html
18-11-2020||Delhi||Now only 50 guests allowed at weddings in Delhi amid Covid-19 surge||No more than 50 people can be invited for a wedding in Delhi as the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continue to soar in the national capital, the Arvind Kejriwal government ordered on Wednesday. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said that Lieutenant Governor (LG) Anil Baijal has given approval for the revised limit. The government revised the earlier cap of 200 people as Delhi witnessed record new cases of the coronavirus disease in the week ending November 14 and daily fatalities hovered close to 100 a day.“This was essential as the larger the crowd at a place, the more harmful it is. Lockdown won’t be imposed but people have to be stopped from gathering in large numbers,” Sisodia was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Earlier in the day, both Sisodia and Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain assured that there will be no lockdown in the Capital but local restrictions are likely to be imposed at some places.“A few weeks back, when the Covid-19 situation improved in Delhi, the government in keeping with central guidelines issued an order allowing 200 people to attend weddings, up from the limit of 50 before. Today we have decided that the order should be rescinded and the limit of 50 reinstated,” Kejriwal had said at a virtual press briefing on Tuesday before the proposal was sent to Lieutenant Governor (LG) Anil Baijal for approval.As the infection tally in the Capital has been witnessing a steady spike, the Centre is also planning a house-to-house survey in Delhi. “Planning for house to house survey in Delhi in advanced stage, after Union Home Minister @AmitShah held meeting on Nov 15 on Delhi COVID situation. Survey expected to begin by the weekend and completed by 25 November,” the Union ministry of home affairs tweeted.The Centre and Delhi government have also stepped-up testing to ensure early identification and treatment of Covid-19 patients. “In another step directed by Union Home Minister @AmitShah, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and Govt of NCT of Delhi working together to enhance RT-PCR testing capacity to 60,000 tests by end November. Testing capacity already enhanced by 10,000 tests/day on November 17,” the Union home ministry said in another tweet.As of Tuesday evening, Delhi’s Covid-19 was over 495,000. The figure has been surging since the last week of October when the city breached 5,000-mark of daily cases. It also reported more than 8,000 cases on November 11 which is the highest daily record so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/now-only-50-guests-at-weddings-in-delhi-amid-covid-19-surge/story-zrtmITT8K2r1P1zS1N0JSL.html
18-11-2020||Delhi||Chhath Puja: North Delhi mayor to ask CM, L-G to reconsider ban on festival at public places||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled North Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Jai Prakash has said he will write to lieutenant governor Anil Baijal and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and request them to reconsider their decision to ban Chhath Puja at public places in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. He said he will request them to allow the puja with certain riders and guidelines.Prakash said a number of people from Bihar and eastern Uttar Pradesh live in Delhi and Chhath is one of their most important and popular festivals. He added the ban on the Puja at public places will force people to celebrate the festival locally which can lead to the spread of the virus. “It is better that we allow Chhath Puja with strict guidelines about crowd control and social distancing at ghats.”Also read | Delhi Govt declares November 20 as public holiday on account of Chhath PujaPrakash suggested that a limit of 50 people at a ghat can be set and devotees can be allowed on the basis of cards issued by their Chhath committees. He said to control crowds, the number of ghats can be increased by creating temporary pools in municipal parks, which are available in almost every colony. “Only devotees who observe fast should be allowed at these ghats. These precautions can really help in managing crowds. We are ready to extend our full support to the government if it allows Chhath Puja,” Prakash said.There are nearly 1,200 Chhath Ghats across the city where devotees would celebrate the festival annually.The Delhi government has banned community celebrations of Chhath at public places like river banks, temples, and ghats to control the spread of the virus. The move came after a sudden spike in the number of Covid-19 cases.The BJP on Tuesday staged a protest to oppose the ban.Ruling Aam Aadmi Party leader Durgesh Pathak said the BJP-ruled central government issued guidelines to stop the celebration of Chhath Puja. He accused the BJP of “falsely accusing” the Delhi government of disallowing the celebration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/chhath-puja-north-delhi-mayor-to-ask-cm-l-g-to-reconsider-ban-on-festival-in-public-places/story-z7Ad2cB2oNg4eroRnJkrcI.html
18-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Active Covid-19 cases reduce, number of institutionally quarantined people drops to 5,367||With the daily Covid-19 caseload reducing significantly, the number of institutionally quarantined cases has also come down drastically. Only 5,367 patients in the state are institutionally quarantined, against 7,91,120 people who have quarantined themselves at home. The number of patients, who are under treatment, too has dropped to 81, 925 in the state.Maharashtra, in the last eight weeks, has registered a steady drop in the Covid-19 cases, bringing them down to a daily average of 4,359 cases and 129 fatalities in the first 17 days of November. In the first two weeks of September, the daily caseload hovered around 20,000. Infected patients without symptoms or mild symptoms are institutionally quarantined in the Covid-19 facilities set by the government in all districts. Active patients are the ones who have symptoms or are critically ill due to the infection and are admitted to various hospitals for treatment.Also Read: After Delhi, these are the worst Covid-19 hit cities in IndiaThe number of people institutionally quarantined on September 17 was 36,827, while the number of active patients was 301,752, the highest ever after the outbreak. The same day, the number of people quarantined at home was 1,770,748. A month ago, on October 20, the number of institutionally quarantined people had dropped to 23,488 while 2,434,687 people were home quarantined. Active patients on the day were 174,265. Two weeks ago, on November 3, the number of institutionally quarantined people was 11,969 while 1,795,666 people were home quarantined. “The number of people who have quarantined themselves at home is high as people now prefer to be at home if infected. The stigma about Covid-19 has reduced and they know how to take care of themselves. Of the 81,925 active patients in the state, less than 10% are in critical condition and are in ICUs or on oxygen support. Many Covid-19 facilities set up by the government are almost empty,” said an official from the health department.In the first 17 days of November, the number of new cases and deaths registered was 74,103 and 2,191 respectively. The month of October saw 293,960 cases at a daily average of 9,483 cases and 234 deaths.The state authorities, however, are anticipating a spike in the cases in the last week of November, after ten days of Diwali, as more people ventured out of their houses and also because of the drop in the temperature. The official quoted above said that the temperature in various parts, especially in north Maharasthra and Vidarbha, has dropped drastically and may lead to the rise in cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-active-covid-19-cases-reduce-number-of-institutionally-quarantined-people-drops-to-5-367/story-x2A87rCPDVn1DKe5EaMRrJ.html
18-11-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: No lockdown, but there may be local restrictions, says Delhi health minister||The Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said that there will be no lockdown in Delhi, but “local restrictions” are likely at some places. His statement comes a day after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had written to the centre seeking permission to lock down markets if they turn into hot spots. Experts have blamed the current surge in the number of cases on people crowding in market places. This comes even as Delhi recorded fewer cases for three days on account of lower testing during festivals and holidays. The health minister, however, claimed that not only are the absolute number of cases in decline, but the positivity rate – which had touched a high of 15.33% during this surge – is also on the decline. Also Read: From over 3,700 Covid-19 cases to 6,396 in 24 hours: Delhi’s rising numbers explained“We are still in the third wave of infections, but the peak has been crossed,” the minister had said on Tuesday. So far, the highest number of new cases recorded in a day has been 8,593 on November 11. On Tuesday, 6,396 cases were reported with just over 49,000 tests, as per the daily health bulletin released by the Delhi government. On average, 54,000 tests were being conducted each day before Diwali. There were also 99 deaths reported on Tuesday, taking the total death toll due to the infection in the city to 7,812. The minister has maintained that masks are better at preventing the spread of the infection than lockdown. “The lockdown had been an experiment and what we have learnt from it is that wearing masks can give us the same benefits. Scientifically, masks are the best way to stop the virus. The lowest positivity rates are recorded in Covid-19 hospitals because the doctors there follow precautions. If everyone follows precautions, the spread of the infection can be prevented. And, despite a lockdown, some people still go out and can bring the infection back to their family members,” he had said on Monday. To control further spread, the city will also focus on increased testing. The number of tests will soon be scaled up to 100,000 to 120,000 a day from the current average of about 54,000. Ten mobile laboratories will be deployed by the central government, 10,000 more tests will be done in laboratories of health ministry and ICMR, and another 1,000 tests will be done in science institutions. The minister also said that celebrating Chhath Puja could lead to the spread, hence restrictions have been imposed. “The virus can spread easily due to large gatherings during Chhath Puja, hence the restrictions,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/no-lockdown-but-there-may-be-local-restrictions-says-delhi-health-minister/story-lGB5KIxE4KKx6AHrqXz7MJ.html
18-11-2020||Lucknow||After Ayodhya spectacle, Varanasi readies for Dev Deepawali||After the green signal from UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath for Dev Deepawali celebration in Varanasi, the city of Shiva has started preparing for Kashi Deepotsav, stated a press statement from the government. The event will take place on November 30, officials said.It further added that the tourism department is of the view that the impact of Covid-19 was on the ebb and that the situation in eastern UP was considerably improving, therefore presenting the right environment for revival of tourism in the area.Gokul Sharma, president of the Banaras hotel association says that after the success of the Deeopotsav at Ayodhya recently, the footfall at Varanasi event was likely to increase. Already there have been many queries by tourists with regards to Dev Deepawali, he added.While the tourism department is pinning hope on a 15% increase in tourist footfall, bookings have also started to trickle in, local hoteliers say.Arrangements have been made to completely sanitise hotel rooms, boats and the markets. People associated with the tourism industry believe that if the government granted visas then foreign guests would come in huge numbers creating a big wave in the tourism industry.The boatmen community also expressed its happiness at the holding of the event, hoping it will boost their business after months of little or no earning.President of the tourism welfare association, Rahul Mehta, claimed the Yogi government had successfully sustained most sectors during the pandemic including the tourism sector. He added that tourism was the backbone of the economy in Varanasi and neighbouring areas.Also Read: PM Modi, Yogi Adityanath, Anupam Kher among star guests for LU centenary celebrationsThe successful organising of Dev Deepawali would go a long way in infusing confidence and returning normalcy to the sector, industry insiders feel.Kirtiman Srivastava, tourism officer of Varanasi and Vindhyachal division, said that from a peak of about 3 lakh domestic and foreign tourists, the number of tours had reduced to zero during the coronavirus induced lockdown.Also Read: Two Dalit sisters found dead in Uttar Pradesh He says that the number of tourists has increased gradually since the Teej festival and subsequently due to weddings when the number of domestic and foreign tourists had increased to 5,025 in September. He sees a further 15% rise in tourism.Dev Deepawali is considered to be a festival of the deities, who are believed to descend on the holy ghats of the Ganges in Kashi on the auspicious occasion of Kartik Purnima and pave the way for salvation of devotees involved in the Maha Aarti. Donating a lamp on this day of Kartik month, as per Hindu calendar, helps one’s ancestors attain salvation, it is believed. This festival is part of the ancient culture of Kashi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/after-ayodhya-spectacle-varanasi-readies-for-dev-deepawali/story-T5EaGsYgMNo19BOaCfwlrO.html
18-11-2020||Kolkata||BJP MP alleges ill-treatment by cops, governor has advice for Mamata govt||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar has sought a report from the state home secretary and the director general of police after a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker alleged that the police stopped him for around 20 minutes when he went to attend the funeral of an army martyr at Nadia on Sunday, killed in Pakistani shelling. “When I went to attend the funeral of martyr Subodh Ghosh, police officials didn’t allow me to enter for the first 20 minutes. They didn’t even give me any reasons as to why I was being stopped. The district magistrate and superintendent of police were all present but they didn’t say a word. Even the Trinamool Congress MP had come. Later after much argument, I was allowed to attend,” said Jagannath Sarkar, BJP MP from Ranaghat in Nadia district. Also Read: Leave no booth unattended: BJP’s Bengal polls strategy aims to replicate 2019 formulaGhosh, 24, posted on the India-Pakistan LoC (Line of Control) was among the five soldiers killed on Friday during unprovoked ceasefire violation by Pakistan’s army. His body was brought to his hometown Tehatta in Nadia where the last rites were performed on Sunday. Also Read: TMC anticipates spurt in fake news ahead of Bengal polls, draws a counter“Police “Political neutrality” @MamataOfficial in flames! Treatment meted out @WBPolice to MP Jagannath Sarkar at last rite ceremony of martyr Sh.Subodh Ghosh at Palassy crematorium, Nadia is gross dereliction of duty by SP and DM #Nadia. Sought report from ACS @HomeBengal DGP,” Dhankhar tweeted on Tuesday. Top brass of the district including the DM and the SP, however, could not be contacted as repeated calls went unanswered. The acrimonious relationship between Raj Bhawan and the government has been making headlines for some time with the TMC accusing Dhankhar of overstepping his limits and interfering in day-to-day affairs of the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bjp-mp-alleges-ill-treatment-by-cops-governor-has-advice-for-mamata-govt/story-XHsjCgOceq0NTNn6hJh0TL.html
18-11-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Widow’s in-laws chop her nose and tongue for refusing to marry relative||A 28-year-old widow’s in-laws allegedly chopped off her nose and tongue in Rajasthan’s Jaisalmer on Tuesday after she rejected their proposal to remarry a relative.Kanta Singh, a local police officer, said they have arrested the prime accused and were looking for the co-accused. The woman was widowed a year after she got married about six years back. Her sister-in-law had since been trying to allegedly get her married off to the relative.The woman’s brother said his sister rejected the idea. He added his sister’s in-laws came to their home and attacked her. “They chopped off her nose and tongue and also broke her right hand. Our mother. who tried saving her daughter, was also injured in the attack.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/widow-s-in-laws-chop-her-nose-and-tongue-for-refusing-to-marry-relative/story-LRZZpPHHp3fJHmYfi5pbIP.html
18-11-2020||Lucknow||PM Modi, Yogi Adityanath, Anupam Kher among star guests for LU centenary celebrations||Lucknow University is all set to kick off its grand weeklong centenary celebrations from November 19 even as Covid-19 numbers are on the rise again. Officials said the event will witness virtual and physical presence of many famous personalities from different fields and Covid protocols will be in place on the campus. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has agreed to grace the foundation day event on November 25 via video link while film actor Anupam Kher will attend the literary event virtually. “The pandemic is here, but as an educational institution, which is completing 100 years of existence, the best way is to continue moving forward,” said Alok Kumar Rai, vice-chancellor of LU while giving details about the function at a press meet on Tuesday. Started as Canning College in 1920, Lucknow University will complete its 100 years on November 24. The university administration has planned a plethora of events in the run up to that day and a mega foundation day celebration on November 25. Authorities said Covid protocols will be in place during the celebrations. Also Read: Two Dalit sisters found dead in Uttar Pradesh“We have tried to incorporate lessons learnt during the pandemic in the traditional way of celebrations for the centennial year function,” said the V-C. “All our programmes will be broadcast live on major social media platforms and some of our special guests will also mark their presence virtually considering the pandemic,” he added. The celebrations will include a mix of events, which will be held during daytime, followed by cultural events in the evening. As per Covid-19 protocol, the university plans to invite not more than 250 guests for an event. LU has also applied for permission from the administration in this regard. Also Read: Uttar Pradesh: Engineer arrested for exploiting 50 children“Seating arrangements for the events have been planned keeping in mind social distancing. Guests will also be offered sanitizers to clean their hands and masks,” said the V-C. Efforts are also being made to make arrangements for thermal scanning of guests. Cultural events have been planned at Malviya Hall and Arts Quadrangle and arrangements are being made to make multiple entry and exit points to limit close space interaction. “Our invites will carry the address of the online link of every programme. This has been done to promote online viewing,” added Rai. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath and deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma will inaugurate the celebrations on November 19. Governor Anandiben Patel has been invited as the chief guest for the convocation event on November 21. Padma awardee singer Malini Awasthi, poet Yatindra Mishra, Kumar Vishwas, singer Anup Jalota, DJ Narain, renowned kathak dancer Kum Kum Dhar, cricketer Suresh Raina are among the celebrities who will be part of the celebrations on the campus. “We aim to showcase the strength, hard work and efforts of our alumni and current students during the celebrations. The students will also be a part of every event. We have also planned an international alumni meet on November 24 in which alumni from across the globe will join via video link,” said Nishi Pandey, who is heading the organising committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/pm-modi-yogi-adityanath-anupam-kher-among-star-guests-for-lu-centenary-celebrations/story-j9MzwgaIuU8uQwSOf1w2fP.html
18-11-2020||Chandigarh||Snowfall forecast in Himachal, J&K tomorrow, mercury dips across North India||A fresh spell of snow is forecast in high-altitude areas of Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir from Thursday, while and the temperature dipped at many places in Haryana and Punjab. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Wednesday forecast a gradual fall in temperature by two to four degrees Celsius this week. “Under the influence of a fresh western disturbance, light isolated to scattered rain/snow is very likely over the western Himalayan region from November 18 to 20,” the IMD has forecast. Himachal Pradesh meteorological department director Manmohan Singh said that the weather is expected to remain sunny in the state on Wednesday but snowfall at isolated places in the higher reaches is likely on November 19, 22 and 23, while rainfall will occur in the middle hills on November 23. The minimum temperature in Shimla was 4.8°C, while Kufri, the popular tourist destination near the state capital, recorded a low of 0.4°C. Manali, Dharamshala and Dalhousie shivered at minus 1.5°C, 5.8°C and 3.6°C, respectively. The minimum temperature in Una was 7.6°C, Bilaspur 9°C, Hamirpur 8.2°C, Nahan 12.2°C and Kalpa minus 2.1°C. Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district was the coldest place in the state as it recorded a low of minus 6.6°C. CLEAR SKY TODAY, MERCURY BELOW NORMAL The sky will remain mostly clear on Wednesday with a slight mist in the morning and the minimum temperature is likely to drop by two degrees Celsius, the weather department said. In its snowfall observation, the IMD said that snow/rain would occur at a few places over Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, and Himachal Pradesh. “The minimum temperatures are likely to fall gradually by two to four degrees Celsius over northwest India during the next four days,” it said. A day after being lashed by rains, Punjab and Haryana saw maximum temperatures hover below normal. Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a high of 25.9 degrees Celsius, one notch below normal. In Haryana, Ambala recorded a high of 24.8 degrees Celsius, down two notches against the normal, while Hisar’s maximum settled at 24 degrees Celsius, five degrees below the normal. Karnal registered a high of 24.5 degrees Celsius, down three notches against the normal. In Punjab, Amritsar recorded a high of 22.5 degrees Celsius, down four notches, while Ludhiana registered a maximum of 23.9 degrees Celsius, down three notches. Patiala’s maximum settled at 25.5 degrees Celsius, two notches below the normal. The Met department said the weather is likely to be dry in Haryana and Punjab for the next four days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/snowfall-forecast-in-himachal-j-k-tomorrow-mercury-dips-across-north-india/story-z52F9QsXjrxWV3jsuIWGFL.html
18-11-2020||Environment||Maharashtra: Uran to get its first mangrove park by June 2021||The Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT), the largest port container terminal in India, plans to build a 200-hectare (ha) mangrove park at Belpada in Navi Mumbai’s Uran by June 2021.The area, along with other eco-sensitive zones in Uran, has faced the problem of debris dumping that has threatened mangrove patches in the Raigad district. The development of a mangrove park, the first in Uran, has been a longstanding demand by environmentalists. It has also been suggested by the State Wetland and Mangrove Grievance Redressal Committee appointed by the Bombay high court in January 2019.“We have committed to building an eco-park to showcase the mangrove biodiversity in Belpada region under our jurisdiction,” said SV Madabhavi, chief manager (port, planning and development), JNPT. “Over the years, we have been unnecessarily dragged into the controversy regarding the degradation of mangroves. We have never been involved in such activities. We remain a socially conscious organisation, committed to the environment, community, stakeholders, employees, and the industry.”Also Read: Mumbai coastal road: More corals to be tagged, shifted than originally identified, permittedJNPT has roped in the Forest Department Corporation of Maharashtra (FDCM) to conduct a feasibility study. It plans to develop the park in two phases. “Since we are mostly engineers or associated with port-related matters, we do not have much knowledge on how to build a biodiversity conservation plan. Thus, we needed experts,” said Madhabhavi.The first phase of the park is expected to be ready by June 2021 at a cost of ₹5 crore which will protect two dense mangrove patches and house visiting galleries, mangrove walkthroughs (boardwalks), structures such as an education and nature interpretation centre, and a nursery with rare mangrove species. “In these zones, our intention is to develop a biodiversity park where we can showcase the natural ecosystem, mangrove growth, and open it up for visitors by having mangrove trails, etc. JNPT does not have any issue with fund allocation for the annual upkeep of this park,” said Madabhavi. “The second phase would include the protection of water bodies to protect the migratory bird habitat in this region.”JNPT said the plan of action for the proposed park is awaiting submission from FDCM, post which all details will be finalised.Krishna Bhavar, divisional manager (Thane), FDCM, said, “The area of the mangrove park as suggested by JNPT is 200 ha. It will take us two to three months to submit the feasibility report. Once approved, if JNPT gives us a work order, we are ready to put together a detailed project report and plan for the park. We are yet to sign a formal memorandum of understanding (MoU). We visited the site twice, and it is conducive to have a mangrove park there.”In March, JNPT had approached the State Mangrove Cell and the Mangrove Foundation to help draw up the park plan. “We were told that mangrove cell cannot implement this,” said Madabhavi.Virendra Tiwari, the additional principal chief conservator of forest (Mangrove Cell), said, “It is good to know that JNPT is planning to develop a mangrove park near Belpada village, which can be an example of biodiversity conservation and provide sustainable livelihood opportunities to local communities. However, the Mangrove Cell or the Foundation do not have the requisite expertise for the preparation of the design of the park but we would like to be involved in the project in an advisory role.”“A mangrove park is like a dream project for us. We hope this will encourage eco-tourism, and also expect JNPT to start respecting mangroves as a natural protector of the coast and preserve them,” said B N Kumar, director of NatConnect Foundation, which had requested the high court panel last year to create a park with the twin objectives of protecting mangroves and creating public education zone.Nandakumar Pawar, head of Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishthan, said the project could be an eyewash as JNPT has allegedly destroyed several Uran wetlands already. “They have been caught red-handed killing 4,500 mangroves for which a case had been filed but no one was arrested. Now, a large stretch is being buried with debris and earth off National Highway 348. JNPT must stop this destruction and handover mangroves under their jurisdiction to the forest department without further delay,” Pawar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/environment/maharashtra-uran-to-get-its-first-mangrove-park-by-june-2021/story-RKU13DIxBJFDtjweqfCP2O.html
18-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi breathes better, air remains moderately polluted||Delhi’s air quality continued to be in the "moderate" category on Wednesday morning as favourable meteorological conditions and the reduction of farm fires helped the capital to breathe better. With a marginal deterioration from Tuesday, the Air Quality Index (AQI) value stood at 180 at 6am on Wednesday.From the "severe" AQI reading of 435 on November 15, the air in the capital improved to "poor" (221) on November 16 and "moderate" (171) on Tuesday. An AQI reading between 0 and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".Scientists have said that due to high wind speeds throughout the week and the negligible stubble burning activity, the air quality is expected to remain in the range of "moderate" to "poor". VK Soni, of India Meteorological Department (IMD)’s environment monitoring research centre, said that the average wind speed on Tuesday was around 15kmph, which helped disperse the pollutants in the air.Also Read: Stubble fires come down; NW India breathes easy for now"Our forecast is that even on Wednesday, the air quality will remain in the moderate range. Even though the wind direction changed to north-westerly on Tuesday, because the stubble burning activity is almost over, its impact on Delhi"s air quality was almost negligible on Monday and on Tuesday," he said.According to the Union ministry of earth sciences’ air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), the air quality can slip into the poor category on Wednesday."The AQI is likely to marginally deteriorate and in moderate to the poor category is forecasted for Wednesday. AQI is forecasted to further deteriorate to the higher end of poor to lower end of very poor category on November 19 and 20," the Safar bulletin said on Tuesday.Meanwhile, the temperatures are likely to drop in the national capital this week. According to the IMD forecast, the capital is likely to have a foggy Wednesday morning with minimum temperature dropping to 11 degrees Celsius and maximum temperature around 26 degrees Celsius.On Tuesday, Delhi’s minimum temperature, recorded at the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official reading for the city, was 13 degrees Celsius – one degree above normal. The maximum temperature was 26 degrees Celsius – two notches below normal.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that widespread snowfall in Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, and the upper reaches of Uttarakhand will lead to a fall in the minimum temperature by around 2 to 4 degrees Celsius over northwest India in the next few days."The winds have shifted to north-westerly from Tuesday so cold winds will be blowing from the western Himalayas, where snowfall has just happened. We are expecting minimum temperature to drop to around 10 degrees Celsius in the next couple of days," Srivastava said. IMD scientists have also said that the minimum temperature in Delhi may fall to 9 degrees Celsius by November 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-breathes-better-air-remains-moderately-polluted/story-rlPhycTyQUERN10abakVHI.html
18-11-2020||City||No Chhath Puja at public places in Panchkula||Keeping in mind the increasing rate of positive cases of Covid-19, the deputy commissioner of Panchkula has denied permission to celebrate Chath Puja at the Ghaggar river or any other public place in the district.A press statement issued by the district information and public relations office, Panchkula, stated that “on November 13, members of the Chhath Puja Samiti had requested for permission to celebrate Chhath Puja, which is on November 20-21, at Sector 21, Kaushalya river, Ghaggar river, and other public places.”Following this, a meeting was held by DC Mukesh Kumar Ahuja along with officials from the health department. Ahuja was informed that up to 25,000 people were expected to celebrate the festival, and permission could not be given for a gathering of such large numbers.“It was decided that no permission will be given to celebrate the festival in public places, but people can celebrate at their own places,” it was added.The DC has directed the MC commissioner to spread awareness and place hoardings informing people about the decision, and the deputy commissioner of police was directed to ensure police presence at public places on the days of the festival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-chhath-puja-at-public-places-in-panchkula/story-pWX1TFXXDMbLWDNT150mAK.html
18-11-2020||City||Panchkula: Panther injures paw in snare trap, FIR lodged||A case under the Wildlife (Protection) Act was registered after a panther was trapped in a wire snare and injured his paw at Barela village here.On November 16, complainant Vijender Singh, wildlife inspector, Pinjore, complained to the police that someone had tried to kill a panther by using a snare.“On November 14, at around 6pm, sarpanch Sunil Kumar of Mataur village informed that 200 metres from Barela, a panther was trapped in the bushes. When I reached the spot, I found that the panther was trapped in a snare. A veterinary doctor was called who refused to sedate the animal at night, so the entire team waited till the morning,” he stated in the FIR.He added: “At 4:30am, the team of doctors reached, but as they were trying to sedate the animal, he ran from the trap, but his nail got stuck in the trap. It appears that the trap was laid with an intention to kill the animal.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-panther-injures-paw-in-snare-trap-fir-lodged/story-lSMcjyNkpqJgxWC1Aa1XWJ.html
18-11-2020||Kolkata||TMC anticipates spurt in fake news ahead of Bengal polls, draws a counter||Apprehending that fake news could be spread through social media platforms to project the Mamata Banerjee administration in a bad light ahead of the crucial Bengal assembly election 2021, the state’s ruling Trinamool Congress has charted a plan to fight such attempts with facts. “In the next few months, you will certainly hear a lot of fake news being circulated in our state. We would be putting out facts to bust fake news. We will try to do this often in the weeks and months ahead,” said Sashi Panja, state minister and TMC MLA. The apprehension is all the more because the BJP has recently appointed Amit Malviya, head of the party’s IT cell as the co-incharge for West Bengal ahead of the 2021 elections. On Tuesday, Sashi Panja, state’s women and child development minister, put out various facts on how the TMC-led government has attempted to empower women with its various schemes and projects over the past one decade, including setting up 48 women police stations, issuing smart cards for women and boosting institutional deliveries. This is, however, not the first time that the TMC has raised apprehensions of fake news being circulated on social media. Just before the Durga Puja, a few persons were arrested for posting fake news on social media saying that the state government has imposed several restrictions during the festive season. The incident had prompted chief minister Mamata Banerjee to direct the Kolkata Police and West Bengal Police to strengthen their cyber-crime cells to tackle complaints of cybercrime at highest priority. Also Read: Leave no booth unattended: BJP’s Bengal polls strategy aims to replicate 2019 formulaDuring the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and polls in four state assemblies, the election commission of India (ECI) spotted more than 154 instances of fake news or misinformation on social media platforms. “The apprehension is all the more because the BJP seems to be focusing on social media this time. The party’s IT cell chief, Amit Malviya, has been recently appointed as the co-incharge of West Bengal ahead of the elections,” said a TMC leader. Also Read: TMC MLAs question Prashant Kishor; rebel says Mamata Banerjee no more in controlIn West Bengal, just before the Lok Sabha polls, an entire page of a vernacular daily was photo-shopped to spread fake news in which Mamata Banerjee was quoted saying that she would show how to make Hindus cry if she wins all 42 seats in the state. “Anyone can move court if they think that the BJP is involved in spreading fake news. Why are they afraid of social media? Instead of booking the guilty as per the IT act, the person is being booked under arms act and NDPS act. They are actually not being able to counter the BJP. That’s why they are doing such things,” said Dilip Ghosh, president of West Bengal BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/tmc-anticipates-spurt-in-fake-news-ahead-of-bengal-polls-draws-a-counter/story-1W4twcmuQgFnkxgZbrU9zH.html
18-11-2020||Chandigarh||Only those fasting for Chhat Puja to be allowed in Chandigarh’s Sector-42 lake: Purvanchal associations||With Chhath Puja slated to start in the city from November 19, some of the Purvanchal associations held a meeting at the Sector-42 lake on Tuesday to discuss how to organise the festival. The meeting was chaired by municipal corporation (MC) councillor Anil Kumar Dubey.Dubey, who is also the chairman of the Purvanchal Sabha, said, “Only people who will be fasting as per the traditions of the festival will be allowed to come to the Sector-42 lake. Those coming from various villages of Chandigarh will be encouraged to celebrate the festival at their villages.” Dubey added that there will be no stage performances this year and only tea will be served to the devotees: “People would earlier visit just to see the celebrations. Now, people will be allowed to enter into the water, but they won’t be allowed to bathe in it.”Masks will be distributed to all and sanitizers will be installed for them to use. Thermal screening will be done at the entry point of the lake.Some other associations including the Purvanchal Welfare Association had earlier announced that they won’t be celebrating Chhath Puja like previous years and would encourage devotees to stay at home.Meanwhile, the UT administration said that the organisers will be responsible for strict adherence of Covid-19 protocols during the celebrations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/only-those-fasting-for-chhat-puja-to-be-allowed-in-chandigarh-s-sector-42-lake-purvanchal-associations/story-FOAtYw4zfPYJ6KN2Xt331J.html
18-11-2020||Noida||Delhi Covid-19 cases in a spiral, Noida starts random testing of capital commuters||In order to assess and prevent cross-border infection from Delhi, the Gautam Buddh Nagar district administration has decided that it will randomly test commuters entering Noida by road or through the metro stations with the help of rapid antigen kits. The officials said that the teams of the health department will be deployed randomly at any of the five major road entry/exit points from Delhi or at the eleven metro stations in Noida, connected with Delhi, for testing.The officials said that the initiative starting Wednesday is part of a strategy to deal with the possibility of rising Covid-19 cases in neighbouring Delhi leading to a spike in cases in Noida since a large number of daily commuters travel between Noida and Delhi.“Our health department is chalking out teams, about 2 or 3, which will be randomly deployed either at road borders with Delhi or outside the metro stations. The teams will randomly select commuters coming in from Delhi and take their samples with the help of rapid antigen kits. The traffic between Delhi and Noida would continue to be normal and it is reiterated that only a few randomly selected commuters shall be tested and not all commuters,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar.“The exercise will start Wednesday. Since, it will be the first day, we have not assessed how many of the commuters will be tested. This assessment will be done a day later. This is being done in order to assess spread of infection and would help in issuing advisories to employers and organisations, where a large number of people work and commute between Gautam Buddh Nagar and adjacent areas, so that spread of infection is contained to a large extent,” Suhas, added.Also Read: Noida authority asks officials to collect only segregated waste to improve Swachhta rankingThe five major entry/exit points that Noida shares with Delhi are the DND flyway, Noida-Mayur Vihar border, New Ashok Nagar border, Kalindi Kunj and another border near Kondli. The city has nine metro stations on the Blue Line of the Delhi Metro network and two stations on the Magenta Line connecting Delhi.“Before lockdown each of the three roads (connecting Delhi and Noida) catered to over one lakh vehicular traffic respectively. After the lockdown, the number of vehicles has decreased on the roads since schools, colleges and several offices are closed. We feel that around 70,000 vehicles use DND Flyway and about 60,000 vehicles use Kalindi Kunj every day. Similar numbers of vehicles run on the Mayur Vihar link road as well,” said Ashutosh Singh, Noida’s traffic inspector.Also Read: Women’s group cycles to promote fitness in Greater Noida west These roads are presently toll free hence the police don’t have exact figures, said officials.Ganesh Saha, DCP traffic, Gautam Budh Nagar, said that he has not received the district magistrate’s order on random sampling of commuters visiting Noida from Delhi for Covid-19 test.“We will coordinate with the district administration as part of the program,” Saha said.According to the state control room records, the district till November 17 registered a total of 20,566 Covid-19 cases, which includes 1,236 active cases besides 73 deaths. During the first 17 days in November, the district has reported 2,727 fresh cases of coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/delhi-covid-19-cases-in-a-spiral-noida-starts-random-testing-of-capital-commuters/story-DhcKGIo99UALxw6EX42TTM.html
18-11-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Rape victim set afire by accused’s family in Bulandshahr dies||A 16-year-old girl from Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahr, who was set afire allegedly by the family of the man she accused of rape, has died of her burns in Delhi’s Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, the victim’s family members said on Tuesday. Three of the seven accused have been arrested. According to the police, in her dying statement, the victim has alleged that the uncle of the rape accused, and his other family members set her on fire on Tuesday.The victim’s family has lodged a case of murder against the accused’s uncle, his wife and five other people at Jahangirabad police station. In the complaint, the family has accused the seven of mounting pressure on the victim for a compromise, failing which they allegedly set the girl on fire. Senior Superintendent of Police (Bulandshahar), SK Singh, the family initially said that the girl set herself on fire. But later they said the girl was set on fire by the accused’s family, Singh added.“We are investigating the charges,” said Singh.The SSP said he had suspended sub inspector Vinaykant Gautam and beat constable Vikrant Tomar have been suspended for alleged inaction in connection with the case. Singh said a rape case was registered on the girl’s complaint on August 15 and the accused was arrested the same day. He added that the accused worked as a caretaker of an orchard in the girl’s village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-rape-victim-set-afire-by-accused-s-family-in-bulandshahr-dies/story-Rc7KuNcMbYVlGA6aNrFavN.html
18-11-2020||Bhopal||New Madhya Pradesh bill likely to replace 1968 law||The Madhya Pradesh Dharm Swatantrey (freedom of religion) Bill, which was announced by home minister Narottam Mishra on Tuesday, is likely to replace the 1968 Madhya Pradesh Freedom of Religion Act that had a maximum punishment of two years for forced conversion.Some key provisions of the proposed law, which is likely to be tabled in the state assembly in the upcoming winter session, were shared with HT by home department officials on condition of anonymity. The law, Mishra said, was necessitated by incidents of love jihad, a term used by some right-wing Hindu activists to describe a marriage between a Hindu woman and a Muslim man.The new proposed law clearly mentions that conversion for marriage by force, fraud, lure or instigation will be punishable by a maximum jail term of five years. This offence shall be cognizable -- which means that police can arrest someone without a warrant and start an investigation without the permission of the court -- and non-bailable, added the officials quoted above.If such forced conversion is proved, then the marriage concerned shall be declared null and void and anyone who assisted or was a part of the conversion exercise shall be treated at par with the main accused, the officials added.Also Read: Madhya Pradesh govt to table bill against ‘forced’ interfaith marriageFor the new proposed law to be invoked, either the person who converted or their relatives, will have to lodge a complaint. Either the person who is converting for marriage or the religious leader presiding over the conversion ceremony will have to inform the concerned district magistrate a month before the marriage. This provision is similar to one that already exists in the 1954 Special Marriage Act, which governs interfaith marriages in India.Justice (retired) AK Gohil, a former judge of the Madhya Pradesh high court said earlier there was no provision to check fraud during inter-faith marriages. “The previous law has a provision of prior intimation but it didn’t have any specific time limit,” he said.“Now the provision of prior intimation will give ample time to authorities to check the credentials. This will help both man and woman because sometimes under the societal pressure, the woman is forced by the family to lodge a fake complaint against her husband for hiding his religion,” said Sandeep Gupta, a senior advocate. Gupta said the previous law was rarely invoked. “If any woman lodged a complaint that a man hid his religion before marriage and forced her to convert after marriage, the FIR was lodge under section 420 of IPC only. Rarely, police invoke the Freedom of Religion Act.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/new-madhya-pradesh-bill-likely-to-replace-1968-law/story-fr553lXffspugzlc0Yr4cP.html
18-11-2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh govt to table bill against ‘forced’ interfaith marriage||Two Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled states, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana, signalled on Tuesday that they will enact laws to regulate interfaith marriages between Hindu women and Muslim men, becoming the first states to formalise the crackdown on a hot-button issue for Hindu activists.Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra said the Madhya Pradesh Dharm Swatantrey (freedom of religion) Bill, 2020 will be passed in the next session of the state assembly. He said the law -- with a provision of five years in jail for forced conversions for marriage -- was necessitated because of rising cases of love jihad, a term used by Hindu right-wing activists to describe marriages between a Muslim man and a Hindu woman. “We are going to table the Madhya Pradesh Dharm Swatantrey Bill ,2020, in this winter session in December against love jihad, which means a woman is forced or lured by a person of other religion for marriage and later she is tortured for conversion,” said Mishra. He insisted that the BJP government was not against interfaith marriages but only against incidents of love jihad.Later in the day, Haryana home minister Anil Vij said the state government intended to constitute a committee of officials to study and draft a law against love-jihad. “We will first have a discussion with chief minister, ML Khattar in this regard,’’ Vij said. Vij said a representative of the advocate general’s office would also be a part of the committee. This committee will study similar laws enacted by other states, he added. In MP, the proposed law -- key provisions of which were shared with HT by home department officials on condition of anonymity -- doesn’t mention any religion in particular in its provisions. Mishra said the bill proposes rigorous imprisonment for five years for “luring a person through fraud and forcing marriage by religious conversion”. Other proposed provisions include making it mandatory for kin of the person being converted for the purpose of marriage to file a complaint.“The forceful conversions and marriages will be a cognisable offence and non-bailable. There will be a provision for declaring such marriages null and void,” said Mishra. Besides, those assisting in such acts will be made co-accused in the case, he added.The announcement came roughly two weeks after chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan signalled the government’s commitment to end love jihad, which Hindu activists describe as an organised conspiracy of Muslim men to trick Hindu women into marriages and effect a demographic change. Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka -- all ruled by the BJP -- have also promised to bring legislation to end love jihad. In Haryana, Vij told the assembly on November 6 that the state government was deliberating on enacting a law to check forced conversions. He also referred to the murder of a young college student by her stalker outside her college in Faridabad. Despite the political mobilization, experts say that the charges of love jihad are bogus and that adult men and women are free to convert under the constitutional right to freedom of religion. In February, the central government told Parliament that there was no definition of the term and no such cases were reported by agencies. Retired high court justice AK Gohil pointed out that there was already a law against forceful conversion -- the MP Freedom of Religion Act -- which has a provision for imprisonment of up to two years. “If the state government wants to bring a specific law against forceful interreligious marriage, they should first define the meaning of love jihad because it is more an agenda of saffron organisation. Forceful interreligious marriage, which is emerging as a big problem, should be dealt sensitively,” he said. Mishra said any person converting for marriage has to inform the magistrate of their district a month in advance. The Special Marriages Act, 1954, which allows interfaith marriages, has a similar provision, in which a magistrate issues a public notice about an interfaith marriage.Congress legislator Kunal Chaudhary said the party will support any law for the safety of women. “The home minister should ensure the implementation of existing law as crimes against women are increasing by the day and the government is not taking any strict steps to curb it.” BJP spokesperson Rajneesh Agrawal said, “We are happy that the state government is serious about these torturous marriages. The new law will definitely save the lives of many women.” Jamiat Ulema-e-hind state president Hazi Haroon said, “The state government should understand the meaning of Love and Jihad first. This law will target people of one religion. This will definitely increase the gap between people of two religions as Love Jihad term was coined by a section of people to create communal tension.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-govt-to-table-bill-against-forced-interfaith-marriage/story-1EAnUSXE2n6ppYi6YRwWEI.html
18-11-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: The tea house of the poets||Old Delhi’s tea stalls make very milky and sweet chai. The venerable Modern Tea Stall with its not-so-modern wooden chairs and chipped china is different. Its tea is dark and kadak (strong). Founded in 1967, this atmospheric destination on Haveli Azam Khan street was lying shuttered since the coronavirus-triggered lockdown in March. It reopened a month ago.Before the pandemic changed the texture of everyday routines, some of the area’s distinguished verse writers would gather in the tea house every evening (see photo) to chat about the latest trends in contemporary Urdu poetry—as well as gossip about the private life of the poets. Indeed, the daily soirées of these faithful attendees were a most convenient gateway for an outsider to experience the Walled City’s vibrant hyperlocal literary scene. The eminences included poet and publisher Munir Hamdam of Turkman Gate Mohalla, (late) poet Rauf Raza of Chitli Qabar who made his living as an interior decorator, journalist Javed Mushiri of Ballimaran, poet Javed Niyazi of Kucha Rohilla Khan who runs a “rubber business” and poet Iqbal Firdausi of Baradari who manages a small factory of musical instruments such as “drum sets and harmonium parts.”These days the tea house remains silent. Just like the grave man at the counter, who has an eerily quiet temperament. Dressed in white kurta, pyjama and topi, Muhammed Khaleel sits on a throne-like chair placed at the entrance, occasionally jotting on his notepad. “This is hisaab (balance sheets), not shayiri (poetry),” he clarifies.Open by 7am, the tea house offers relaxing distractions. Those with a fascination for old objects might be mildly enchanted by an aged wall-clock. Or perhaps by the once-white tiles on the walls whose current shade resembles the yellowing pages of old musty hardbounds. Faded posters of famous Sufi shrines too draw attention. The tea house would stay open until about midnight with the aforementioned poets as its last customers. That’s how it used to be in the Before Corona, or BC, era. These days the poets don’t show up, and the place shuts by 8pm latest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-tea-house-of-the-poets/story-dWbrfWkIHbm0CQvMQRa9aL.html
18-11-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi seeks curbs at weddings, markets||The Delhi government wants to reduce the number of people at weddings to 50 and has asked the Union government for powers to lock down markets if they turn into hot spots, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Tuesday — both much-needed curbs as the Capital struggles to tame a rising wave of Covid-19 infections that has pushed hospitals to the brink.Both the decisions, which were welcomed by experts, have been sent to the lieutenant governor (LG) Anil Baijal for approval. In the week ending November 14, Delhi recorded previously unseen levels of new cases, and daily fatalities have hovered close to 100 a day. New deaths usually reflect infections that took place three-four weeks ago. New cases declined over the weekend, but this is likely to be misleading since the weekend and two festivals (Diwali and Bhai Dooj) led to fewer tests.Also Read| Delhi:Covid-19 testing capacity to be doubled to 120K, focus on RT-PCR tests“A few weeks back, when the Covid-19 situation improved in Delhi, the government in keeping with central guidelines issued an order allowing 200 people to attend weddings, up from the limit of 50 before. Today we have decided that the order should be rescinded and the limit of 50 reinstated,” Kejriwal said at a press briefing over video.“Secondly, we saw in the run-up to Diwali that people were not wearing masks or following social distancing at many markets, which led to a spurt in infections. We have now sent a proposal to the Union government to allow us to assess if people are not following appropriate behaviour at a market and shut it down if we feel it could turn into a hot spot,” he added.The Union home ministry, which is the main agency coordinating measures in response to the coronavirus pandemic, has ordered regional governments across the country to seek its permission before announcing any lockdowns.  By Tuesday evening, the office of the LG received both files, said a senior official who did not wish to be identified. While the LG is likely to take a call on the wedding-related proposal on his own, he shall be forwarding the market-related proposal to the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) and Union home ministry, the official said.Kejriwal added that he hopes that such measures will not be required since the festival rush is now over at marketplaces. “All governments and agencies are making double efforts to contain the coronavirus infections. But we will not be able to achieve this unless everyone does their part,” the chief minister said in what he described as “an appeal with folded hands”.The CM’s stance appeared to be at odds with remarks on Monday by Delhi health minister Satyender Jain, who said the Capital’s third wave of infections has peaked and that there will be no new lockdowns. Hours after Kejriwal’s Tuesday briefing, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia told HT: “We want to clarify that this is not a lockdown. The concept of lockdown has not helped in the fight against Covid-19 in a long run. This is a generic permission we have sought from the central government for emergency situations.” Alarm at the situation has particularly grown since Sunday, when a high-level review of the situation involving the topmost state and central authorities – including Kejriwal and home minister Amit Shah – found that the situation in Delhi was unlike anything seen across the worst-hit regions in the country. At its peak, according to a presentation by Niti Aayog’s VK Paul, Delhi added more infections per million than Maharashtra or Kerala – the two other states hit hard by the pandemic.Daily hospitalisation data collated by the government showed that the number of people admitted crossed the 9,000-mark for the first time and that from among 3,500-odd ICU and ventilator beds earmarked for Covid-19 patients, only a little over 400 are vacant.Between November 1 and 16, over 101,000 Covid-19 infections were added to Delhi’s tally. In this period, the city recorded most infections (8,593 on November 11) and deaths (104 on November 12) for a single day. Health experts have repeatedly said the reinstating of some curbs may be inevitable to tackle this situation.“The Covid-19 situation in Delhi is in bad shape now. Such restrictions are much needed. A lot of transmission of the virus is likely to have happened during the festive season and the effects will be visible in the weeks ahead. The government should scale up testing, surveillance and containment efforts as well,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology and communicable diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Also Read: Delhi to get 9,500 teams for door-to-door surveillance outside containment zones, contact tracingSince Monday, officials of the Union and Delhi government have been preparing to marshal more resources. “The current 3,500 ICU beds will be increased to 6,000 in the next few days with the help of Delhi government, army and central government. The army-run hospital in Dhaula Kuan will add 537 ICU beds, the central government hospitals 45, and 2,680 beds will be added by the Delhi government, mostly through the order reserving 80% ICU beds in 33 big private hospitals,” Paul said at a press briefing on Tuesday.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, who was also at the briefing, said: “It has been decided that the number of tests will be doubled in Delhi between 1 lakh and 1.2 lakh. And, a strategy for the same has been devised. However, we need to ensure that the ratio between rapid antigen tests and the RT PCR is right; it should not become lopsided in the favour of rapid antigen tests”.Two other major steps in the works are a redrawing of the containment strategy and citywide door-to-door canvassing in which officials will urge anyone with symptoms to get tested. According to officials, the specifics of both these measures are likely to be announced in the coming days.Wedding hall industry representatives said they were worried about the economic fallout of the new curbs.“The Delhi government’s proposal to restrict the number will ruin us. It is only after the Delhi government increased the number of guests at weddings, we started taking bookings for up to 200 guests. The cards have been distributed and we have called back our workforce from their villages, as we finally had work. This decision will adversely impact the livelihood of 1 million families associated with the wedding business,” said Sandeep Madan, vice president of Community Welfare Banquet Association.Brijesh Goyal, president of chamber of trade and industry, said: “Traders are anxious in Delhi after Tuesday’s announcement. We will do a video conference on Wednesday with more than 200 market associations in which we will be recording the views and opinions of the traders, which will be sent to the chief minister’s office, and we shall also be discussing measures related to social distancing, Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and precautions that can be taken to avoid temporary shutting down of any market.” But experts said the measures were required. “The decision on markets looks like a focused restriction measure which is temporary in nature and should not ideally be compared with the lockdown that we have witnessed earlier. There can be an economic impact for a short period, wherever the restrictions are imposed, if approved, but Delhi is also witnessing a health emergency and the Covid-19 numbers are worrisome,” said Dr Jacob John, former head of clinical virology department at Christian Medical College, Vellore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-delhi-seeks-curbs-at-weddings-markets/story-b5tT9XVFS0R3u9YdDT6SoO.html
18-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana govt gives portable weighing machines to Karnal, Gurugram DTOs||Portable weighing machines were provided to the district transport officers (DTOs) of Karnal and Gurugram by the Haryana government on Tuesday. CM Manohar Lal Khattar, who presided over a meeting of DTOs of all 22 districts, said these machines would help keeping tabs on the overloaded vehicles. Khattar said initially, 45 weighing machines have been purchased by the transport department. “If this experiment proves successful, more such machines would be bought,” he added. The chief minister directed DTOs to implement a “faceless and cashless” system. He said that the state government has not only transferred 250 employees of the transport department, but also circulated a list of undesirable contact men following which their access has been completely blocked. He said that DTOs should make best use of technology and other digital equipment like CCTV cameras in their offices to keep a close vigil on the movement of the people entering their offices. Apart from this, separate registers should be maintained to keep the details of visitors entering their offices. He also asked the officers to maintain secrecy while conducting raids. On complaints regarding the entry of overloaded vehicles carrying goods and mining material from other states, Khattar said that regular checking be conducted at the interstate borders to check overloaded vehicles coming from Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-govt-gives-portable-weighing-machines-to-karnal-gurugram-dtos/story-TNm98xptuutQy0hlC2cG9L.html
18-11-2020||City||Retired government employee, wife hacked to death in Yamunanagar||A man retired from the public works department (PWD) and his wife were hacked to death in Yamunanagar’s Sadhaura block on Tuesday, police said.As per information, the murder took place in Bakala village under the Bilaspur subdivision, where the man, identified as Roshan Lal (in his 70s) and his wife Paramjit (around 55) were murdered separately in the evening. Various police teams checked a grocery shop that the man used to run and where he was found dead along with their house where the woman was reportedly killed. The teams also searched a nearby pond, where the weapon(s) could have been dropped. A local said that Roshan Lal had two sons, one of whom died in 2007 and the other lives near their house with his family. SP Kamaldeep Goyal said that prima facie, it seems that a sharp-edged weapon was used to attack the couple. “Our teams are questioning villagers and family members, but as of now, the reason behind the murder is not clear. Villagers have told us that the man had married the woman around nine months ago. His first wife had died several years ago,” Goyal added. Wife among four booked for Karnal man’s murder A woman, her lover and her two relatives have been booked for the murder of her 34-year-old husband in Datta colony of Panipat city, police said on Tuesday.As per the police, Sunil Kumar of Karnal’s Nilokheri was found hanging from a ceiling fan in Panipat.Following the complaint of his family members, the police registered a case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against his wife Menka, her lover Krishan and her two relatives.Victim’s father Mange Ram said that Sunil and Menka had married around 10 years ago, but Menka could not adjust with his family members following which they moved into a rented accommodation.He alleged that Menka also had extramarital affair with Krishan, to which Sunil objected. He said that late on Sunday, Menka’s uncle informed them that Sunil had committed suicide.“But when we reached the spot, we got to know that he had died around 8pm. Menka, Krishan, and Menka’s brother and sister murdered Sunil,” he told the police.Attar Singh, in-charge of Assandh Road police post, said an FIR has been registered and the cause of the death will be ascertained in the postmortem report. An investigation is going on, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/retired-government-employee-wife-hacked-to-death-in-yamunanagar/story-ROd5UNhIOsFw6qmMn8D3BJ.html
18-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana government to form panel to study and draft anti-conversion law||Haryana home minister Anil Vij on Tuesday said the state government intends to constitute a committee of officials to study and draft an anti-conversion law. The home minister likes to term the proposed legislation a law against “love jihad”.“We will first have a discussion with chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar in this regard,” Vij said.The home minister said that a representative of the advocate general’s office would also be a part of the committee. This panel will study similar laws enacted by other states.Vij had on November 6 told the state assembly that the Haryana government was deliberating on enacting a law to check forced religious conversions. He was speaking on a calling attention motion on the murder of a young Faridabad woman, Nikita Tomar, by her stalker Tausif.He had said the state government was also compiling information about instances where forced religious conversions took place to give effect to an inter-faith wedding.Earlier in June, Khattar had said that the state government has decided that a Right to Freedom of Religion Bill will be passed to stop forced conversions.During an interview with HT in July, the chief minister had said that there were complaints regarding forced conversions and marriages from many districts.“People are free to adopt any religion in an informed manner but using coercion, allurement to force religious conversions is a matter of concern. Such incidents vitiate the atmosphere of society. We are studying similar laws enacted by other states and will accordingly take a call,” Khattar had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-government-to-form-panel-to-study-and-draft-anti-conversion-law/story-3ZB8S0FUfvrfoj2bbUXR7I.html
18-11-2020||City||Ludhiana: Ensure 1 volunteer for 30 devotees, DC tells Chhath Puja committees||With Chhath Puja around the corner, Ludhiana deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Kumar Sharma and police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal urged the organisers to exercise caution and observe all necessary precautions to avoid the spread of Covid-19. In meeting with Chhath Puja committees the DC and police commissioner told the organisers to deploy one volunteer for every gathering of 30 persons.The DC, while expressing satisfaction over the initiatives taken by the Dussehra Committees last month, said that similar arrangements are expected from the Chhath Puja committees.The DC further said that Covid cases have been on a surge over the past few days, leading to worries of a second wave. Sharma also asked the organisers to keep masks handy and provide it to anyone found roaming without one. “Besides, strict social distancing has to be maintained and a hand wash facility should be provided at every entrance,” he said. The DC also directed the canal department to keep the water level in the canals adequate, at the request of the Chhath Puja committees. Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said that no cultural programmes would be allowed. He also requested them to avoid organising langar and instead provide packaged food in stalls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-ensure-1-volunteer-for-30-devotees-dc-tells-chhath-puja-committees/story-1WG51rqYf3DDq3Ni4jfk8N.html
18-11-2020||City||Ludhiana: 3 more succumb to virus||Three more Covid-19 deaths were reported in the district, even as 92 fresh infections were detected, health officials said on Tuesday.The district now has 775 active cases. Ludhiana has so far had 21,580 Covid cases, of which 870 lost their battle to the virus. The three deceased include a 73-year-old woman of Kitchlu Nagar, who passed away at SPS hospital, a 64-year-old man a village in Khanna and a 26-year-old resident of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-3-more-succumb-to-virus/story-PXsblYGamFlh0yfujI75CM.html
18-11-2020||City||Covid update: Health dept plans to conduct tests at govt offices||A day after the district recorded seven Covid-19 deaths, the Ludhiana health department has decided to carry out tests at crowded locations, such as the government offices, to check the spread of the virus.Sharing details of a meeting held on Tuesday, civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “We are planning to carry out a test at the regional transport office in mini-secretariat, which generally sees a huge rush. Besides, testing will also be done at other such government offices where people visit frequently.” A letter has also been issued by the state government, asking the staff involved in public dealing to get their Covid tests done.The letter reads that as public dealing has resumed in most government offices, there is a high possibility that this could lead to a spread of the virus. Government employees have been advised to exert caution while dealing with the public and isolate themselves if they develop any Covid-like symptoms, or if they come in contact with any positive patient.Focus on mandatory maskingDr Bagga further stressed that wearing a mask is the only vaccine available right now. “Even if a vaccine is developed, it is highly unlikely that everyone will be able to get vaccinated within a year. So, I would urge people to wear masks while going out in public,” said Dr Bagga.He said that as per a recent survey, only 65% of the people in Ludhiana wear masks. “Our endeavour is to ensure that everyone wears a mask. Only then can we control the spread of the contagion,” said Dr Bagga.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-update-health-dept-plans-to-conduct-tests-at-govt-offices/story-x6n8Tvyx319OppHOUDzEgJ.html
18-11-2020||Chandigarh||Manesar land case: Ready to pass deemed award where collaboration agreements executed, Haryana tells SC||The Haryana government has told the Supreme Court that it has decided to pass deemed award with respect to land parcels in Manesar where collaboration agreements were executed between August 27, 2004 and January 29, 2010.An affidavit saying this was e-filed by the Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) before the top court. “Since an application has already been filed by the HSIIDC seeking clarification qua these very parcels of land, the state government will abide by the court’s decision in this regard,” the affidavit said. The SC is hearing the prayer seeking clarification whether its 2018 judgment in the Manesar land release case would also cover land parcels purchased prior to the date of Section 4 notification of Land Acquisition Act on August 27, 2004, but transferred by the landholders during the August 27, 2004 to January 29, 2010 period by way of collaboration agreements in favour of other parties and whether they will form part of the deemed award ordered by the top court. Collaboration agreements executed during 2004-10 The affidavit filed by HSIIDC said there were three cases where land was purchased before August 27, 2004 but collaboration agreements were executed during August 27, 2004 to January 29, 2010 period in favour of other parties. The land, about 42 acres, collectively belonged to three real estate developers — Paradise Systems Pvt Ltd, Frontier Home Developers and Karma Lakeland Pvt Ltd. “Since it was uncertain whether such lands would be covered by the 2018 judgment and whether such collaboration agreements also be construed as transfer of land, an interlocutory application was filed seeking clarification from the Supreme Court,” the affidavit reads. Besides, about 14 acres of two developers – RP Estates Pvt Ltd (licence given in 2009) and Subros Ltd (licence given in 2008) formed part of the Section 6 notification of August 25, 2005.“The land of Subros was released in principle by the state government in 2007 on the basis of the decision of the ministers’ committee. RP Estates was the owner of land prior to Section 4 notification and continued to be so from August 27, 2004 to January 29, 2010. Since there was no sale transaction with respect to the land of Subros and RP Estates during August 27, 2004 to January 29, 2010, these parcels were not part of the deemed award of November 26, 2018. There was neither change of ownership nor any collaboration agreement,” the affidavit said. What the apex court ordered||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/manesar-land-case-ready-to-pass-deemed-award-where-collaboration-agreements-executed-haryana-tells-sc/story-lIvDVSmEnQvB10TqAnFAHI.html
18-11-2020||City||Ludhiana: Sealing drive against property tax defaulters to start next week||Reeling under fund crunch even as its branches are struggling to meet recovery targets, the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) has decided to start a sealing drive against property tax and house tax defaulters in the city from next week. As per MC officials, there are over 86,000 defaulters who have not paid their property tax since the financial year 2014-15, and the tax to be recovered from them runs into about ₹52 crore, excluding the penalty and interest. The civic body is also yet to recover over ₹50 crore (including penalty) in the form of house tax, which was imposed before property tax was introduced by the state government in 2014-15. MC officials said that this time notices won’t be issued in bulk as it leaves the staff tied up in documentation work. Instead, a limited number of notices will be issued at a time so that the officials can carry out proper follow-ups and take action accordingly.MC superintendent (property tax) Vivek Verma said, “Strict action will be taken against defaulters from now on and a sealing drive will start next week, as per the directions of MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal. Final notices will be issued to the defaulters and if they still fail to submit the pending dues, their properties will be sealed. Firstly, action will be taken against big defaulters. A list of defaulters and their pending amounts has been issued to the zonal commissioners, who have been directed to push their staff to meet the recovery targets.” As per information, there are around 20,000 defaulters each in Zone A, B and C areas, while Zone D has around 26,000 defaulters.Recovery target not likely to be met this yearAgainst the annual recovery target of ₹130 crore, the property tax wing has only recovered ₹55 crore so far, which is around ₹8 crore less than what it recovered by this time in 2019.Officials revealed that among the big defaulters this year are several malls and hotels that have not paid the tax citing the pandemic. The amount to be recovered from them comes to around ₹7 crore. This year, the MC has also increased the property tax for residential rental properties, including the paying guest accommodations, hostels, rental accommodations etc. The owners will now have to pay 7.5% of the annual rent received as tax. Earlier, owners had to pay ₹5 per yard for the property annually. MC officials state they won’t be able the meet the recovery this year too, as the pandemic has already induced a financial crisis in the market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-sealing-drive-against-property-tax-defaulters-to-start-next-week/story-X5d6wiM6WZ04Vgi0BSktBN.html
18-11-2020||Chandigarh||₹223-crore J&K loan scam: 2 more co-op society former officials named in chargesheet||The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) on Tuesday produced a supplementary chargesheet against two former government officials in a multi-crore loan scam.An official spokesperson said a chargesheet was produced against the then J&K Co-operative Societies registrar Mohammad Mujib-Ur-Rehman-Ghassi and the then deputy registrar Ashiq Hussain in the ₹223 crore J&K State Cooperative Bank (JKSTCB ) loan scam. “Both accused were arrested prior to production of chargesheet and produced in a court. Both accused were remanded to judicial custody,” the spokesperson said.He said a case was registered against J&K State Co-operative Bank Ltd chairperson Mohammad Shafi Dar and others in Srinagar for allegedly sanctioning loans to the tune of ₹250 crore in favour of a non-existent society, River Jhelum Co-operative House Building Society Magarmal Bagh, Srinagar, for the alleged construction of a satellite township at Shiv Pora Srinagar. The loan was sanctioned bypassing the bank’s credit policy and on the basis of false and fabricated documents.“The ACB had already filed a chargesheet on November 8 against the then chairperson of the bank, chairperson of the non-existant society Hilal Ahmad Mir and the society’s secretary Abdul Hamid Hajam,” he said. “On the receipt of the said letter, a loan to the tune of ₹ 223 crore was sanctioned in favour of the said non-existent co-operative society by the J&K State Co-operative Bank headed by Dar,” he said. The agenda items of the non-existent society were created on January 23, 2019. The bylaws say the fictitious society was created by Dar, he said. The hearing has been fixed for November 23. Pvt company commits ₹34-lakh fraud, 7 bookedThe Jammu and Kashmir Police’s Crime Branch has booked seven people and registered a case against a private firm for luring people with a business plan to double their money in Kathua district, officials said on Tuesday. The accused who have been booked for the fraud, cheating and conspiracy are Mukesh of Jind, Haryana, director group of companies; Deepak Malik of Jind, Haryana, the CEO; Sonu Rani of Panipat; Parveen Kumar of Dera Bassi, Mohali,; and its members Ranjeet Singh of Mukhtar Sahib; Jaspal Singh and Sukhwinder of Amritsar.Ranjeet, Jaspal and Sukhvinder promised the complainants to double their investment amount within two to three months. The suspects also made the complainants transfer a total ₹34,30,000 in the account of the company, according to the officials.Roshni land scam : DCs told to expunge entries of encroached land Divisional commissioner of Jammu region Sanjeev Verma on Tuesday asked all 10 deputy commissioners of Jammu division to cancel all the mutations of land transferred under the Roshni Act and submit details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/223-crore-j-k-loan-scam-2-more-co-op-society-former-officials-named-in-chargesheet/story-Rq9fFQpxkowb8eIb8v8n5L.html
18-11-2020||Chandigarh||32 in fray for Phase-1 of DDC polls, panchayat bypolls in Kathua||Thirty-two candidates are in the fray for Phase-I of the District Development Council (DDC) elections and panchayat bypolls in Kathua district that are slated for November 28.The district election authority said 11 of the 47 nominees had withdrawn their candidature on the last date of withdrawal — November 16. Four candidates withdrew from the DDC election race while seven aspiring sarpanches drew their name ahead of the fight. Four candidates won the posts of panch unopposed. The announcement was made by returning officers of the panchayat halqas. Those elected unopposed, include three candidates from Bani block and one candidate from Duggan.Phase-5 :November 23 last date to file nominations Kathua district panchayat election officer Om Prakash Bhagat has issued a notification for Phase - 5 of the Panchayat byelections to fill the vacant sarpanch and panch seats in the panchayat Halqas of Marheen and Gujroo-Nagrota blocks. The notification issued by DEPO also includes a schedule of elections for the district development council polls in Marheen and Gujroo-Nagrota constituencies.As per the notification, the last date for filing nomination for sarpanch, panch and DDC seats is November 23. the nominations will be scrutinised on November 24. The last date for withdrawal of candidature is November 26 while polls are scheduled to be held on December 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/32-in-fray-for-phase-1-of-ddc-polls-panchayat-bypolls-in-kathua/story-fTIcb15cRTzulHjEV7EK0N.html
18-11-2020||Chandigarh||AITA Championship Series tennis tournament in Chandigarh: Aditya to lock horns with Aarush in U-16 boys final||Aditya Chauhan will cross swords with Aarush Sharma, while Harleen Dhanda will meet Radhika Vasudeva, in the U-16 boys and girls finals on the final day of the AITA Championship Series (CS-3) Tennis Tournament at the CLTA Stadium in Sector 10 on Wednesday.Using his experience, Aditya of CLTA had easily defeated Rakshit Dhankar in a close contested semis match by 9-6. He will meet fifth-seed Aarush Sharma in the final who defeated Arnav Bishnoi 9-2.In the girls’ semis, top-seed Harleen had defeated Vanya Arora 9-3. Harleen dominated throughout the match with her aggressive ground strokes. In another semis game, second-seed Radhika easily defeated Harnoor Kaur Sidhu. Both of them had played good tennis to tie at 4-4, after which Radhika picked up momentum and won.Result tallySemi-finalsBoys’ U-16: Aditya Chauhan (HR) beat Rakshit Dhankar (CH) 9-6; Aarush Sharma (PB) beat Arnav Bishnoi (CH) 9-2Girls’ U-16: Harleen Kaur Dhanda (HR) beat Vanya Arora (HR) 9-3; Radhika Vasudeva (CH) beat Harnoor Kaur Sidhu (HR) 9-4Quarter-finalsBoys’ U-16: Aditya Chauhan (HR) beat Anirudh Sangra (CH) 9-4; Rakshit Dhankar (CH) beat Akshat Dhull (CH) 9-5; Aarush Sharma (PB) beat Rishi Dahiya (PB) 9-3; Arnav Bishnoi (CH) beat Keshav Dangi (CH) 9-5Girls’ U-16Harleen Kaur Dhanda (HR) beat Riya Kaushik (CH) 9-5; Vanya Arora (HR) beat Rubani Kaur Sidhu (HR) 9-5; Harnoor Kaur Sidhu (HR) beat Shriya Singh (HR) 9-1; Radhika Vasudeva (CH) beat Sidhak Kaur (PB) 9-5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/aita-championship-series-tennis-tournament-in-chandigarh-aditya-to-lock-horns-with-aarush-in-u-16-boys-final/story-PTCInPKbEL8gjuXhFeCxYI.html
18-11-2020||Chandigarh||Woman, daughter killed, 3 injured as car plunges into gorge in Chamba||A woman and her daughter were killed and three others were critically injured when the car they were travelling in skidded off the mountainous road and plunged into a gorge in Chamba on Tuesday afternoon.Beena Devi, 45, of Gehra and her daughter Ranjana, 24. Those injured are Shubham, 18, Sapna, 20, and the driver Amit Kumar, 25. They have been admitted to Jawahar Lal Nehru Government Medical College (JLNGMC), Chamba.Police said four of a family were returning home after paying obeisance at a temple when the driver lost control of the vehicle on Rajera-Gagal Road. The victims were rushed to JLNGMC where Ranjana was declared brought dead while Beena succumbed to her injuries while undergoing treatment. Police have registered a case under Sections 279 (rash driving), 337 (causing hurt by negligence ) and 304A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).The bodies were handed over to the family after conducting a postmortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/woman-daughter-killed-3-injured-as-car-plunges-into-gorge-in-chamba/story-L1wvgBTPI1TD7g9m0hYiUL.html
18-11-2020||Chandigarh||Anurag Thakur blames Himachal officials for delay in setting up Central University campus||Union minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur on Tuesday blamed state government officials for delay in setting up a permanent campus for the Central University of Himachal Pradesh (CUHP). Addressing a public meeting at Kotla-Behad in Jaswan-Pragpur assembly segment of Kangra district, Thakur, in presence of chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, said the issue was hanging fire for 10 years due to the laid back attitude of state officials. He said the state government should inculcate a good work ethic among its officers. He urged the chief minister to convene a meeting with the officials and direct them to expedite the process. “If you issue an order right here and now, officials will work on it otherwise the matter will continue to hang fire,” he said. Meanwhile, the CM said Himachal had some of its best leaders and a from Delhi was working on the project and the Centre should cooperate in setting up the campus.Earlier, the CM dedicated and laid foundation stones of developmental projects worth about ₹ 56 crore in Jaswan and Pragpur assembly constituencies. Jai Ram Thakur inaugurated a health institution level-III at Dadasiba , various road and drinking and water supply schemes. The CM laid foundation stones of Combined Office building at Dadasiba; 50-bedded hospital building, veterinary polyclinic building; Pharmacy College building at Rakkar, augmentation of water supply schemes and road projects. Industries Minister and local MLA Bikram Singh said that the Jaswan-Paragpur area has seen unprecedented development under the BJP regime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/anurag-thakur-blames-himachal-officials-for-delay-in-setting-up-central-university-campus/story-BalHCoQ1zcaoNVVZj9Um2I.html
18-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh PGIMER to get India’s first dedicated animal house laboratory with advanced research facility||The department of radiodiagnosis and imaging at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research is installing the country’s first digital subtraction angiography (DSA) facility dedicated to basic research in animals.Professor MS Sandhu, head of the department of radiodiagnosis, said the facility will aim at testing new drugs and hardware that can potentially be used for the treatment of human disorders.The DSA machine is a sophisticated digital X-ray emitting machine, which helps in the precise evaluation of vessels inside the human or animal body once an iodine-based contrast is injected into a specific vessel; it gives an exquisite display of the vascular system of that particular organ and the blood flow pattern.Interventional radiologists use this machine for performing angiography of various organs of the body like the brain, liver, kidneys etc. The various treatments include opening up of blocked vessels, plugging of leaking vessels and delivering super-selectively chemotherapy or radiation to the tumor in the affected organ.Before coming into the market for human use, the drugs and allied equipment have to undergo strict checks initially on animals, followed by human trials in various phases.‘In sync with national policy of Make in India’“Due to lack of appropriate testing facilities for newer devices aimed at interventional treatment of disorders in India, almost all of the certifications are done in the United States, Europe and/or East Asia. This often involves delays in treatment coming to Indian shores and is significantly expensive due to high import duties. With the setting up of this laboratory, there is a chance that these limitations may be superseded to some extent for some new drugs and equipment. The animal house DSA facility will also be in sync with the national policy of Make in India and it will be in the interest of patient care too,” said professor Sandhu.Animal DSA installations need a sophisticated setup requiring, in addition to the DSA equipment, the entire infrastructure to house appropriate animals. Expert personnel and conditions are required to take suitable care of the animals and provide them fair living conditions in an ethical humane setup.Subsequent administration of experimental drugs is undertaken or deployment of new devices is carried out like stents, coils, to understand the changes these lead to in the animals. Sometimes, for evaluating the results, angiographies have to be repeated after a certain interval. The results achieved aid to develop specific therapies for various vascular and parenchymal disorders in human beings. The animals who will be housed at PGIMER include sheep, rabbits, guinea pigs, mice, rats and hamsters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-pgimer-to-get-india-s-first-dedicated-animal-house-laboratory-with-advanced-research-facility/story-f57LaHlrvRSxEGH1yvevkK.html
18-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Sion hospital awaits approval from its panel to start clinical trials of first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine||Mumbai’s Lokmanya Tilak Municipal General Hospital, also known as Sion hospital, is waiting for the final approval from its ethics committee to start the clinical trial of the first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine.In the last week of October, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had selected the Sion hospital for the pan-India trial of the third phase of Covaxin, manufactured by Hyderabad-based firm Bharat Biotech. A proposal for the trial was then placed before the hospital’s ethics committee in the first week of November for a final nod.“We will start the trial once we receive the final green signal. We have already received more than 100 inquiries from interested participants,” said hospital dean Dr Mohan Joshi.As many as 1,000 volunteers between 18 and 60 years of age will be part of the trial, of which 20% will comprise those with comorbidities while 5% of the participants will be medical health workers. As per ICMR rules, the hospital will follow-up with the volunteers for 12 months over their health.Meanwhile, the hospital has also started a special outpatient department (OPD), OPD-28, to assist volunteers interested in the trial with regards to their queries. It has deployed its staffers, Tejas Tambe and Sushil Pendharkar, at the OPD building to answer the queries of the citizens.“We have put up a board about the details of the trial at the entrance of the hospital with the helpline number. The process of approval has been delayed owing to the festive season, but we believe that within the next two-three days, we will get the nod from the committee,” said Dr NT Awad, head of the hospital’s pulmonary medicine.For the trial, the hospital is also upgrading the infrastructure. Its officials said that the hospital is procuring a special refrigerator to store the serum of the trial.“The third phase will have two stages. After 28 days of the first vaccination, the volunteers will be given the second vial,” added Dr Joshi.As Bharat Biotech’s website, Covaxin is developed in BSL-3 (bio-safety level-3) high containment facility. The vaccine received the approval from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for Phases 1 and 2 of human clinical trials, following which the trials commenced across India from July.Citizens interested in the vaccine trial can call on 022-24076381 and ask for the extensions 3700/3703 between 9am and 4pm for queries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-sion-hospital-awaits-approval-from-its-panel-to-start-clinical-trials-of-first-indigenous-covid-19-vaccine/story-JIz8VS3o5yIHpWroYbZE7O.html
18-11-2020||Mumbai||Despite dip in daily Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, Mumbai Metropolitan Region’s share stays same||Even though the number of daily Covid-19 cases has reduced in the state over the past month, the contribution of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), which comprises Mumbai and surrounding areas, to the daily tally remained the same. The MMR continues to be the most affected region in Maharashtra. Of the total 11,447 cases reported on October 16, as many as 3,630 cases were reported from the MMR (31.7% of the day’s tally). The region’s daily case count was 791 of the total 2,535 cases reported in the state on November 16 (31.2%), showed the data released by the state health department. MMR comprises nine municipal corporations, including Mumbai and the rural areas of Thane, Palghar and Raigad districts. The region has also reported 607,073 cases, the maximum count, among all regions till November 16. Pune region follows MMR in terms of daily case count. On November 16, it recorded 560 cases, the second-highest contribution to cases in the state. It is also the second most-affected area after MMR with 439,364 cases, as of November 16. It comprises five municipal corporations, including Pune and rural areas of Solapur, Satara, Kolhapur and Sangli districts. “There is a decline in cases and we have been observing it in all the areas of the state. MMR is also reporting less than 1,000 cases but it continues to contribute the maximum number of cases as compared to rest of the regions,” said a health official, wishing not to be named. On November 9, the state recorded 2,535 cases, the lowest number since June 16 when 2,701 cases were reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/despite-dip-in-daily-covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra-mumbai-metropolitan-region-s-share-stays-same/story-Tvlmpf3GLtIBn46PUMcSjJ.html
18-11-2020||City||Special summary revision of electoral rolls begins in Mohali district||As per the schedule released by the Election Commission of India, the chief electoral officer of Punjab has initiated a special summary revision of the electoral rolls, which will be concluded on December 15.Assistant commissioner (grievances) Deepankar Garg (under training) on Monday met representatives of the political parties of the district and released the draft electoral rolls. He also handed over a set of the draft and a CD of the same to them.Garg said that one can submit their objections and claims for the revision of their votes to the concerned booth level officers (BLOs) or electoral registration officers till December 16.A first-time voter or a voter who has changed his/her residence from one constituency to another can request for inclusion in the voter list through Form 6. Through Form 7, one can request to remove a person’s name from the rolls due to death or change of address. Form 8 can be filled for the modification of details; and requests can be made under Form 8A to shift the vote from one place to another in the same constituency.Garg said that on November 21 and 22, and December 5 and 6, booth-level officers will receive claims and objections at the polling booths. He appealed to the people to make maximum use of www.NVSP.in and Voter Helpline app keeping in view social distancing and the government guidelines for Covid-19. More information can be sought on the toll free number 1950.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/special-summary-revision-of-electoral-rolls-begins-in-mohali-district/story-lCQdZOEn01WdbKSORPnvDM.html
18-11-2020||Mumbai||8 months after 1st Covid-19 case was reported in Mumbai, the civic body has spent ₹1,050 crore for fight against pandemic||Eight months after the first case of Covid-19 was reported in the city, India’s richest civic body, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), has spent more than Rs1,050 crore on Covid-19 related expenses. Though the cases in the city have been controlled, Mumbai is among the cities that have reported the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country. According to BMC officials, the major expenses have incurred towards the procurement of medical equipment such as personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, N-95 masks, 3-ply masks, gloves, face shields, hydroxychloroquine, thermometers, body bags, protective eye-wear, sanitisers etc; augmentation of existing health infrastructure and setting up new facilities such as Covid-19 centres and jumbo facilities; hotel bills to lodge frontline staff; recruitment of new staff on contractual basis and distribution of food in the initial days of the outbreak. From its total budget of Rs33,441.02 crore for 2020-2021, the civic body had allocated a special fund of Rs2 crore to upgrade medical facilities at Kasturba Hospital in the light of a possible Covid-19 outbreak. A month after the outbreak of Covid-19, BMC had spent around Rs100 crore, which went up to nearly Rs480 crore in June. After the expenses surged over Rs1,050 crore in November, the BMC has estimated the expenditure to reach Rs1,200 crore by the next month.Though the BMC’s revenue from several avenues such as real estate and property tax have been taken a hit due to the pandemic for the ongoing financial year, it says it will not raise money by taking loans from any third party. P Velrasu, additional commissioner, BMC, said, “We have spent around Rs1,050 crore on Covid-19 till now, and in the coming days too, we will be able to meet the expenditure from our own resources. We are taking steps to ensure the revenue flow and are also studying various options to invest money from our reserves into government bonds. We do not have any plans to take any loans for our projects and will manage funding from our own resources.”BMC has reserve funds of around Rs66,958.09 crore as fixed deposits in banks and it is exploring other investment options such as government bonds, within the ambit of investments permitted for government bodies by the Centre and under the Municipal Corporation Act, 1888. Velrasu said, “We already have a bank on our board as a consultant who will guide us on investment into government bonds.”However, the Congress, which is in the Opposition in BMC, has demanded that the civic body present a bifurcation of the entire expenditure. “We have referred back over 170 proposals in the standing committee related to the Covid-19 expenditure during the lockdown. We need the bifurcation of the expenditure from BMC, but it has not provided it. There could be wrongdoings in the expenses, considering we are not being provided with the bifurcation,” Ravi Raja, Congress corporator and leader of Opposition said.For the next financial budget (2021-2022), BMC plans to allocate funds exclusively for Covid-19 that will be separate from the allocation made to the public health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/8-months-after-1st-covid-19-case-was-reported-in-mumbai-the-civic-body-has-spent-1-050-crore-for-fight-against-pandemic/story-5ik4lVjehFKp8HIKoPuOzK.html
18-11-2020||Delhi||Close down all markets and not just a select few, says Maken||The Congress on Tuesday urged the Centre and the Delhi government to lock down all markets and not go for “selective closure” at a time when the number of Covid-19 cases in the city state is five times the national average and higher than that of Brazil, the United Kingdom, Italy and other countries. “Delhi has the highest cases per million population in India. The figure stands at 29,140 cases per million population. It is five times the national average, and higher than Brazil, UK and Italy,” the Congress leader said. Addressing a virtual news conference, Maken criticised Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal for seeking power from the Centre to impose a lockdown in those markets that may emerge as Covid-19 hot spots. Also Read| Covid-19: Delhi seeks curbs at weddings, marketsThe Delhi government has sent a proposal to the Centre to give it the power to impose lockdown in market areas that may emerge as Covid-19 hot spots. It has also sent another proposal to Delhi lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal to allow only 50 people to attend wedding ceremonies, against the earlier limit of 200. “We want to say that all markets should be closed, and not just some markets. Kejriwal ji’s idea to selectively close markets is disastrous. By doing so, he will concentrate crowds in a select few markets. We request Kejriwal to have mercy on the people of Delhi and not choose to close only selected markets,” he said. Maken also urged the Centre and Delhi governments to implement a complete “work from home” for offices. “Encourage work from home so that people come out less and also regulate the services of Metro trains,” he said. He claimed that one of every five people succumbing to Covid-19 in India was from Delhi. “Delhi’s average infection rate is five times higher and Delhi leads among all states. There is no other state that is anywhere close to Delhi. Kejriwal and Union home minister Amit Shah are equally responsible for this situation. Apart from advertising, these people have done nothing,” he said. Also Read: Delhi to get 9,500 teams for door-to-door surveillance outside containment zones, contact tracingMaken also hit out at Kejriwal for organising a special prayer function at Akshardham temple in Delhi on Diwali, alleging that ₹32 crore was spent from the state exchequer on the event. “While we desperately need more beds, intensive care units (ICUs) and ventilators, Kejriwal chose to blow away ₹32 crore on Diwali publicity and stunts. Kejriwal ji, you have spent ₹32 crore on Diwali advertisements. Had you not spent that money on your advertisements, you could have bought 600 ICU beds,” he said. The Aam Aadmi Party did not respond to calls, text messages for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/close-down-all-markets-and-not-just-a-select-few-says-maken/story-9aq0xZSm37rmfGKzCD0VkJ.html
18-11-2020||Delhi||RWAs ask for paid isolation facility for asymptomatic patients||As the number of Covid-19 cases surges in the capital, residents have urged the Delhi government to provide paid isolation facilities to asymptomatic patients who do not wish to stay at home.Resident Welfare Associations (RWA) say those who have elderly or persons with serious medical conditions at home would prefer to stay at a paid isolation facility to protect their family from the risk of contracting the infection.In the past one month, the number of Covid patients placed in home isolation has doubled—from 13,436 to 26,533 between October 17 and November 16. On Tuesday, Delhi recorded 6396 new Covid-19 cases, taking the count to 495,598, the government’s health bulletin said.Asymptomatic patients are allowed to stay in home isolation or can opt for government-run Covid Care Centres. There is no paid isolation facility at present, unlike during the early stages of the outbreak when the government converted hotels into paid Covid wards. RWAs say the government should provide at least one paid facility in each district.Atul Goyal, president of United RWAs Joint Action (URJA), a collective of RWAs in Delhi, said, “People have to share toilets and space at government-run facilities. Those who can pay should have an option of moving into a paid facility. In each district, the government should create one such facility. They don’t have to do much; they already have a system in place. They just have to revive it.”Senior government officials say a Covid positive patient is allowed home isolation only if they meet the criteria such as a separate room and bathroom, no comorbidities, mild Covid symptoms, etc.Also Read| Delhi: Covid-19 testing capacity to be doubled to 120K, focus on RT-PCR testsBut residents say those who have elderly patients, children, patients with serious medical conditions at home and can afford, might prefer to stay at a paid isolation facility even if they have a separate room and bathroom.Rejimon CK, founder of Dwarka forum, said, “Many wouldn’t like to risk their family members and prefer to stay separately while they get cured. If you have a Covid patient at home, the workload on the caregiver at home increases, especially if you have elderly or children or family members with serious medical conditions. Even if we have space, many of us would prefer to stay in a paid facility. The government should at least provide this option to those who are willing to pay.”Earlier this year, the Delhi government had attached hotels with hospitals where Covid patients, who were not in a serious condition, could pay and stay.Rajiv Kakria, convenor, Save Our City Campaign, said, “The government can attach some hotels with hospitals to provide this facility. Hotels in commercial areas, state bhavans, etc., should be used for this purpose. But guest houses in residential areas shouldn’t be used for this as it will pose a problem for residents. Covid cases are on a rise and there is a need to step up our facilities.”The number of patients in home isolation is steadily increasing. Since November 1, nearly 6,000 patients have been placed in home isolation. Also Read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayDr Jugal Kishore, head of community medicine at Safdarjung Hospital said, “It will be good if a paid facility is provided to Covid patients who don’t want to stay at home due to personal reasons. But the paid facility should be managed by a team of doctors. Patients at a paid isolation facility should have access to medical care. Several RWAs had created isolation facilities in their locality earlier this year. It will be good if that facility is revived.”Asked if the government was thinking about providing paid facilities again, a senior Delhi government official with the revenue department, requesting anonymity, said, “There is no such plan at the moment. If people don’t want to stay in home isolation, they can stay at the government-run Covid care facilities. We had attached hotels with hospitals when such a facility was provided earlier. But now hotels have been allowed to operate. This kind of an arrangement is not possible at the moment.”The Delhi government did not respond to requests for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/rwas-ask-for-paid-isolation-facility-for-asymptomatic-patients/story-znzC2M93dRPLmsD64nmsDP.html
18-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi to get 9,500 teams for door-to-door surveillance outside containment zones, contact tracing||Delhi will need at least 9,500 teams to quickly conduct door-to-door surveillance of high-risk households to prevent a further spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the community, according to the minutes of the meeting of health ministry officials and the city’s health authorities and district authorities held on Tuesday. At present, 3,000 teams are conducting such surveys only in 4,449 containment zones.Of the population to be surveyed, around 160,000 live in containment zones and 5.5 million outside them. “With the current number of teams proposed, some high-risk households identified by the districts will only be covered after seven to 10 days. This means a current suspect person will continue spreading the infection for the next 10 days till he/she is contacted by the surveillance team,” said the minutes, a copy of which is with the HT. The target now is to cover all identified households within four to five days to quarantine and test contacts. Also Read| Covid-19 in Delhi: Hospitalisations peak at 9,000; 88% ICU beds fullTo coordinate the data received from the door-to-door surveillance, a zonal magistrate will have around 10 to 15 supervisors under him, who in turn will have 10 to 15 teams under them. Each of the teams will be given a unique ID to help capture and monitor the data. “When we do contact tracing, we forget to quarantine them (before the test result is received). So, even though we have identified the contacts, we let them move around in the neighbourhood, markets, offices, or other public places. Now, we will not only identify the contacts but immediately quarantine or isolate them. The results of this exercise will be seen soon,” union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said during a press briefingBhushan said additional manpower will be drawn from the municipal corporations, district magistrate’s offices, the disease surveillance programme as well as civil defence volunteers. “House-to-house surveillance is ideal to detect infections early, especially those depicting mild symptoms. It is crucial to get tested,” said Dr RR Gangakhedkar, former head, epidemiology and communicable diseases, Indian Council of Medical Research.He added, “The message that should go out loud and clear among masses is that if you suspect exposure, treat yourself as infected. Follow every single step of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, especially at home. That includes wearing a mask, eating meals alone, staying away from the elderly family members. etc. Super spreading events are rare, what is more common is a positive person infecting their family members. Be watchful for at least seven days and get tested if there are symptoms.”Since surveillance teams revisit households after five days or more to ensure symptomatic contacts are tested, a checklist on how to self-isolate and information about the nearest testing centres will be given in the initial meeting. The identification of new containment zones in the city will be a dynamic process using data on clustering and case mapping done by the teams headed by officials from the National Centre for Disease Control, district surveillance officers and district magistrates. NITI Aayog member Dr VK Paul said around 16 contacts were being traced for each positive case in Delhi. This is an improvement over two contacts that were being traced in Delhi since the outbreak began. Also Read: North corp reserves beds for Covid patients at Hindu Rao hospitalThese contacts are being traced through phone calls in Delhi. “Ideally, contact tracing should be done face to face by the surveillance teams and not just on phone,” the minutes say, adding that as an abundant precaution, the surveillance teams should check those in home isolation in their area to ensure the rules are actually being followed and check their health parameters. According to data shared by a senior Delhi government official who requested anonymity, 50% of the people tested in a West Delhi dispensary using the less accurate rapid antigen test were found to be positive for the infection. The samples of 60% of those who tested negative were sent for a repeat RT PCR, making it a hot spot, the official said.At present, around 60% of the active cases or those with infection in Delhi are in home isolation, as per data provided by the Delhi government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-to-get-9-500-teams-for-door-to-door-surveillance-outside-containment-zones-contact-tracing/story-5QEhITrucdcwz5lofPcqjN.html
18-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Covid-19 testing capacity to be doubled to 120K, focus on RT-PCR tests||The Centre announced on Tuesday that it will double the testing capacity to 100,000-120,000 with a focus on increasing reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests, deploy mobile testing labs and ramp up ICU beds from the current 3,500 to 6,000 in the next few days to arrest the sudden spike in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the national capital. According to official data, between November 1 and 16, Delhi has added over 100,000 new coronavirus infections while 1,200 people died due to the disease during this period. Delhi has registered a steep hike in the Covid-19 cases since October 28 when the daily infections breached the 5,000-mark for the first time and crossed the 8,000-mark on November 11. “It has been decided that the number of tests will be doubled in Delhi between 1 lakh and 1.2 lakh. And, a strategy for the same has been devised. However, we need to ensure that the ratio between rapid antigen tests and the RT PCR is right; it should not become lopsided in the favour of rapid antigen tests,” said union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan at the weekly briefing. Ten mobile vans will be deployed and labs under Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) and other scientific institutions will be roped in to increase testing, said NITI Aayog member Dr VK Paul said at the briefing. Union home minister Amit Shah had chaired a meeting on Sunday, which was attended by the Delhi L-G, chief minister, top administration and health officials as well as representatives from the NITI Aayog, ICMR and All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). On Monday, the Centre announced constitution of 10 multidisciplinary teams to inspect Delhi’s private hospitals to check whether the number of ward and ICU beds available in the hospitals is as per Delhi government orders so far. On average, the gold standard RT-PCR tests accounted for almost 36% of the total tests done in Delhi over the last seven days, an increase from around 28% the week before. It is necessary to ensure high numbers of RT-PCR tests as the alternate rapid antigen test is known to thrown up many false negatives for people who might have the infection. The ratio has been skewed in favour of rapid antigen tests in Delhi since its introduction in mid-June as it is cheap, easy to deploy in dispensaries, and gives results in 15 minutes. To increase testing in the city quickly, Dr Paul said that the entire capacity of laboratories in Delhi will be utilised. “Currently, the city does about 57,000 tests a day, of which nearly 20,000 are done using RT-PCR method. Delhi has a capacity of 27,000 tests. This existing capacity will be utilised,” he said. Also, laboratories under the ICMR and the health ministry will be used to add 10,000 tests. Another 1,000 will be added by scientific institutions in the city,” Paul said. The health ministry will also deploy 10 mobile laboratories for testing as well. “Five of these mobile laboratories will be operationalized in the next four to five days and the others will be added in a week,” he said. Also Read: Delhi to get 9,500 teams for door-to-door surveillance outside containment zones, contact tracingDuring the briefing, both Dr Paul and Bhushan emphasised that anyone who had symptoms of Covid-19 should get themselves tested. They said it was another “Covid Appropriate Behaviour” in addition to wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and not going to crowded places, and washing hands frequently. With increase in the number of hospitalisations and the intensive care unit beds almost running full, Dr Paul said that the current 3,500 ICU beds will be increased to 6,000 in the next few days with the help of Delhi government, army and central government. The army-run hospital in Dhaula Kuan will add 537 ICU beds, the central government hospitals will add 45 beds, and 2,680 beds will be added by the Delhi government, mostly through the order reserving 80% ICU beds in 33 big private hospitals. To staff the hospitals, 75 doctors and 250 paramedics from central forces are being flown in. “More than half of them have already arrived and the other will also arrive in the next couple of days. Manpower will also be drawn from central government and municipal corporation-run hospitals,” said Dr Paul. With the number of active cases on the rise in the city, the government has also decided to augment the support system needed for home care to facilitate home isolation of up to 35,000-40,000 people. “The support system needed for patients in home isolation – telemedicine support, pulse oximeter, etc – will be ramped up, as the number of active cases might go up in the future,” said Dr Paul. The number of active cases has touched a peak of almost 44,500 in the city so far, of whom nearly 80% people remain in home isolation as per data shared by the Delhi government. To increase isolation facilities for mild cases not eligible for home isolation, the union government has decided to operationalize 5,000 beds at the Radha Soami Satsang Beas centre in Chattarpur and 800 beds in railway coaches. Also Read| Covid-19 in Delhi: Hospitalisations peak at 9,000; 88% ICU beds full“The situation is as bad as it was a week ago; almost every hour I get a call to arrange a bed. Even though more beds have been added, there is still a shortage, and I do not see any signs of the situation improving any time soon. Probably 10-12 days later, we may see a decrease in numbers but not right now,” said Dr Rajesh Chawla, senior consultant, respiratory and critical care medicine, Indraprastha Apollo Hospital.“I feel it is worse in private hospitals as people are willing to pay, and there is also price cap in place, as a result there is acute shortage of beds, especially ICU beds at the moment,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/testing-capacity-to-be-doubled-to-120k-focus-on-rt-pcr-tests/story-p46QwHFHKebP1qx5mzNqYK.html
18-11-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Wedding planners and traders anxious, but many say curbs needed||The Delhi government’s decision on Tuesday to cap the number of wedding guests at 50 and its move to get powers from the Union government to lock down select markets have drawn mixed reactions from traders and event planners.While several banquet owners bemoaned the lost chance to recoup losses incurred during the March 25 lockdown and said the decision could potentially obstruct the recovery of the Capital’s economy, others appreciated the government initiatives and said they were much-needed steps in the light of the surge in Covid-19 cases.Between November 1 and 16, over 101,000 Covid-19 infections were added to Delhi’s tally. In this period, the city recorded most infections (8,593 on November 11) and deaths (104 on November 12) for a single day. The proposal to cap the number of guests has been sent to lieutenant governor (L-G) Anil Baijal, who chairs the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) for approval. With just a week left for the wedding season to start---the auspicious period for weddings this year is between November 24 to December 12—banquet and hotel owners were looking to stay afloat make up the losses sustained during the wedding season between April and June due to the lockdown.Also Read: Delhi to get 9,500 teams for door-to-door surveillance outside containment zones, contact tracingOn Tuesday, banquet and hotel owners’ associations started getting panic calls from clients and some of the associations even met with minister of state for home affairs Nityanand Rai, and urged him to intervene.Sandeep Madan, vice president of Community Welfare Banquet Association, said, “We had a meeting with Rai ji, as the Delhi government’s proposal to restrict the number of guests will ruin us. We have called back our workforce from villages as we were finally back in business. This decision will adversely impact the livelihood of 10 lakh families associated with the wedding industry.” There was no response from the ministry of home affairs to calls and messages seeking his comment.On October 31, the DDMA had allowed 200 guests at weddings and related functions. Since then, banquet halls and hotels have been accepting bookings accordingly, they said.“Our clients have distributed wedding invites. We have placed orders keeping the increased guest limit. How are we supposed to work?” said Madan.A delegation of Delhi tent owners’ federation went to meet the CM on Tuesday afternoon to request him to reconsider the decision but they couldn’t meet the CM.Pankaj Shokeen, general secretary, Delhi tent owners’ federation, said, “The CM didn’t meet us. We will request the L-G to reconsider the matter, as it will have serious financial repercussions for the industry. Some of us have taken loan or borrowed money at high interest rates to make arrangements. If the numbers are restricted to 50, we will be ruined.”Their anxieties were shared by traders, though the government has insisted that these fresh restrictions should not be viewed as a “lockdown”.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicBrijesh Goyal, president of chamber of trade and industry, said: “Traders are anxious after Tuesday’s announcement. We will do a video conference on Wednesday with more than 200 market associations in which we will be recording the views and opinions of traders, which will be sent to the chief minister’s office. We shall also discuss measures related to social distancing, Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and precautions that can be taken to avoid the temporary shutting down of any market.”Ajay Bajaj, advisor to the Karol Bagh traders’ federation, said: “We stand with the Delhi government on this. The Covid-19 situation in the city has gone out of hand and it poses a great risk for anyone. Such restrictions are inevitable at this point.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/wedding-planners-and-traders-anxious-but-many-say-curbs-needed/story-zlyAfjeiKcEEdfBR8kNpiN.html
18-11-2020||Noida||Random rapid tests for commuters going to Noida from Delhi||People coming to Noida from Delhi will be randomly tested for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) from Wednesday, the Gautam Budh Nagar district administration said on Tuesday, adding that the measure was part of the strategy to curb rising infections in the district since a large number of commuters travel between Delhi and Noida daily. Senior administration officials said teams of the health department will be deployed randomly at any of the five major road entry/exit points from Delhi or at the 11 Metro stations in Noida for testing commuters.“The teams will randomly select commuters coming in from Delhi and test them through rapid antigen method. The traffic between Delhi and Noida would continue to be normal and it is reiterated that only a few randomly selected commuters shall be tested and not all of those entering the city,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar.“The exercise will start Wednesday. Since, it will be the first day, we have not assessed how many of the commuters will be tested. This assessment will be done a day later. This is being done in order to curb the spread of infection and help in issuing advisories to employers and organisations, where a large number of people work and commute between Gautam Budh Nagar and adjacent areas,” Suhas said.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicAccording to the state control room data, till November 17 the district has recorded 20,566 Covid-19 cases and 73 fatalities. Between November 1 and 17, the district has reported 2,727 fresh infections. The five major entry/exit points that Noida shares with Delhi are the DND flyway, Noida-Mayur Vihar border, New Ashok Nagar border, Kalindi Kunj and another one near Kondli. The city has Nine stations metro stations which are part of the Blue Line (Noida Electronic City to Dwarka Sector 21) of the Delhi Metro network and two stations which fall on the Magenta Line (Janakpuri West to Botanical Garden).Ashutosh Singh, traffic inspector, said Noida and Delhi are connected through DND Flyway, Kalindi Kunj and Mayur Vihar link road. “Before lockdown each of the three roads catered to over one lakh vehicles daily. After the lockdown, the number of vehicles has decreased on the roads since schools, colleges and offices are closed. As per out estimate, around 70,000 vehicles use DND Flyway and about 60,000 vehicles use Kalindi Kunj every day. Similar numbers of vehicles run on the Mayur Vihar link road as well,” he said.Also Read: Delhi to get 9,500 teams for door-to-door surveillance outside containment zones, contact tracingThese roads are presently toll free hence the police does not have exact figures, said officials.Ganesh Saha, DCP traffic, Gautam Budh Nagar, said he has not received the district magistrate’s order on random sampling of commuters visiting Noida from Delhi for Covid-19 test. “We will coordinate with the district administration as part of the programme,” Saha said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/to-check-covid-19-cross-spread-noida-to-randomly-test-commuters-from-delhi/story-n530jrO3ZRyN314ALcP1lO.html
18-11-2020||Delhi||Focus on local emissions to avoid return of bad air||Rain and improved wind speed after Diwali, which cleared off much of the pollution accumulated due to heavy stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana and the cracker bursting in the city, might have given Delhi the much-needed boost going into the winters when the air quality plunges every year. However, experts cautioned that the authorities must focus on local sources to ensure that city does not slip into an air emergency again. VK Soni, head of India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) environment monitoring research centre, said the western disturbance, which started impacting the western Himalayas on Sunday brought widespread and moderate rains to Delhi-NCR, helping Delhi breathe cleaner air. “The number of stubble fires being spotted over Punjab and Haryana are nearly negligible now. With this western disturbance, two major polluting episodes have been taken care of, which means that now local pollution sources and local weather factors will be the contributors for any kind of change in air quality,” Soni said. Also Read: Noise pollution up from last yearAnalysis of AQI data shows that on Tuesday for the first time since 2017, Delhi experienced a moderate air quality day between November 13 and 17. Delhi’s average air quality index (AQI) on Tuesday was recorded at 171, in the moderate zone, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. Also, the contribution of stubble fires in the city’s PM 2.5 levels (ultrafine particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) was just 3%. It had peaked to over 40% in October.Experts said that while sharing a common air shed, pollution coming in from neighbouring states contributes to the air quality deterioration in Delhi, but local factors cannot be ignored. Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment) said that while Delhi has been successful in bending the pollution curve year-after-year, a lot still needs to be done to control pollution, especially in the areas of vehicular emissions and waste management. “There is no denying that work has been done in areas such as controlling industrial emissions and fumes from heavy vehicles crossing the city, etc, but there are still two primary areas where efforts are required. One is reducing vehicular emissions, for which authorities will have to go back to basics and work towards the augmentation of public transport. The situation has become a little tricky now with the limitations due to Covid-19, but this should be a long-term goal for the government,” Roychowdhury said. Also Read: Rain and winds help Delhi breathe a little easyShe added, “Another area where the government needs to concentrate is waste management. In many unauthorised areas there isn’t a proper system to dispose household waste and this waste ultimately ends up being thrown in dhaloas and set ablaze.” Delhi’s environment minister Gopal Rai on Tuesday said the government is controlling local pollution sources and that Delhi’s air quality cannot be looked at in isolation. “We have said this time and again, we are not denying that Delhi’s local pollution sources are a problem, but these sources were the same till August. The deterioration starts when the harvest season starts in Punjab and Haryana and farmers start burning stubble in their fields because they do not have a viable option to get rid of it,” Rai said. Enlisting the measures being taken by the Delhi government to control the local sources of pollution, Rai said that they had from November 16 started the second phase of ‘red light on, gaadi off’ (red light on, ignition off) campaign, to control the vehicular emissions. He also said that regular meetings are being conducted with the municipalities to ensure that water sprinkling and mechanised sweeping is done to prevent road dust and open burning of waste is controlled. A 2019 analysis of Delhi’s pollution sources done by Council on Energy, Environment and Water showed that vehicular emissions contributes to as much as 39.2% of the city’s PM 2.5 levels (ultrafine particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres). This is closely followed by dust from roadsides, whose contribution goes up to 37.8%. In PM 10 levels (particulate matter with diameter less than 10 micrometres), the contribution of road dust goes up to 65.9%, while the contribution from construction activities reaches 21%. Also Read: Pollution levels soar on Diwali as cracker ban falls flat in DelhiRadha Goyal, deputy director, Indian Pollution Control Association (IPCA) also said that vehicular emissions, construction activities and waste burning are the main local sources of air pollution in Delhi during winters. “The approach to handling winter pollution should be more preventive than responsive. There should be strict monitoring on waste burning by municipalities in Delhi-NCR, and now that we have already practised working from home during the Covid-19 lockdown, this could become a practice during critical winter periods to avoid congestion on roads. Stricter guidelines and controlled construction activities will also help in reducing the impacts of local sources on Delhi’s AQI during critical winter periods,” Goyal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/focus-on-local-emissions-to-avoid-return-of-bad-air/story-ZuxQWnQ4X4EaYVRyZ0y3OI.html
18-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Colder days, cleaner air ahead, shows IMD forecast||In the coming weeks, Delhi will get colder and continue to breathe cleaner air, according to the forecast by the India Meteorological Department (IMD). IMD scientists said that the minimum temperature in Delhi may fall to 9 degrees Celsius by November 22, and there may be no drastic changes in the air quality. Delhi’s AQI has fluctuated between poor to severe and moderate in a matter of five days between November 13 and 17. From an AQI of 435 on November 15, which is in the severe zone, the air improved to poor (221) on November 16 and moderate (171) on Tuesday. Sagnik Dey, associate professor at IIT Delhi, said the reduction in air pollution has been made possible partly because farm fires have reduced to almost zero and mostly because of the favourable meteorological factors such as good wind speed and light rain on Monday. VK Soni, of IMD’s environment monitoring research centre, said that the average wind speed on Tuesday was around 15kmph, which helped disperse the pollutants in the air. “Our forecast is that even tomorrow (Wednesday) the air quality will remain in the moderate range. Even though the wind direction changed to north-westerly on Tuesday, because the stubble burning activity is almost over, its impact on Delhi’s air quality was almost negligible on Monday and on Tuesday,” he said.Wind speeds are expected to remain high throughout the week, which will help keep the air quality in the range of moderate to poor, IMD scientists said.Also Read: Focus on local emissions to avoid return of bad airDelhi on Tuesday recorded a minimum temperature of 13 degrees Celsius at the Safdarjung observatory, which is the official data for the city. The maximum temperature was 26 degrees Celsius, two degrees below the season’s normal. On Monday, the minimum temperature at the Safdarjung observatory was 16 degrees Celsius. At the Palam observatory, the minimum temperature was recorded at 14.2 degrees Celsius, while the maximum temperature was 24.6 degrees C—nearly 3 degrees below normal. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that widespread snowfall in Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, upper reaches of Uttarakhand will lead to a fall in the minimum temperature by around 2 to 4 degrees Celsius over northwest India in the coming days. “The winds have shifted to north-westerly from today (Tuesday) so cold winds will be blowing from the western Himalayas, where snowfall has just happened. We are expecting minimum temperature to drop to around 10 degrees Celsius in the next couple of days,” Srivastava said. Also Read| Winter is here: Delhi records season’s lowest maximum temperatureIMD data shows that till November 16, the average minimum temperatures recorded in the city have been around 2-3 degrees below what is considered normal for the season.. Data shows that last year the lowest minimum temperature recorded in the month of November was 11.4 degrees on November 20. On November 24, 2017, the lowest minimum temperature was recorded at 7.6 degrees. Srivastava explained that since September Delhi had not received any impact of western disturbance, which kept the skies clear. Under such weather conditions, the ground cools faster and the minimum temperatures stay low.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/colder-days-cleaner-air-ahead-forecasts-imd/story-fpJIFMbpWXOSZE74P659fM.html
18-11-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 in Delhi: Hospitalisations peak at 9,000; 88% ICU beds full||The number of hospitalisations due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) reached an all-time high on Tuesday, crossing the 9,000-mark for the first time, on a day Delhi recorded less than 7,000 cases for three days in a row, mainly because of fewer tests conducted during the festive season. . As on Tuesday, 9,215 patients were admitted with the infection at various city hospitals. 6,396 cases were reported with just over 49,000 tests being conducted on Tuesday -- 32,431 rapid antigen and 16,600 of the more accurate RT-PCR tests, according to the daily health bulletin released by the Delhi government. On average, 54,000 tests were being conducted each day before Diwali. With 99 deaths on Tuesday, Delhi reported more than 90 deaths for six days in a row. With these deaths, the seven-day average case fatality ratio (CFR) – the proportion of people who die among those who test positive – touched 1.65%, the highest since the beginning of August. The total CFR, which had been on the decline, also inched upwards over the last four days and stood at 1.58% on Tuesday. Also Read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayAt its peak, the number of hospitalisations had hit 6,264 during the first surge of infections in June-July and 7,051 during the second surge in September. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain had on Monday said Delhi has already crossed the peak for the third wave of infections. With the increase in hospitalisations, more than 55% of the total beds earmarked for the treatment of Covid-19 patients were occupied as on Tuesday evening, according to the Delhi corona app. However, the cause of concern is the number of ICU beds. Over 88% ICU beds were occupied across hospitals on Tuesday evening. “If the increase in the number of cases continues, there will be a crisis. This is because most of the ICU beds are already occupied. A positivity rate of 13 to 15% means widespread transmission is happening. And, we have everything open other than the schools; the markets have been crowded during the festive season,” said Dr Sanjay Rai, head of the department of community medicine at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). The current ICU capacity of just over 3,500 beds is likely to go up to 6,000 in the next few days. The army-run hospital in Dhaula Kuan will add 537 ICU beds, the central government hospitals 45, and 2,680 beds will be added by the Delhi government, mostly by reserving 80% ICU beds in 33 big private hospitals. “The kind of intensity of the pandemic can be dangerous to lives, livelihood and fabric of the society. We as citizens have to play our role. If you see Europe, their beds are getting over again,” said NITI Aayog member Dr VK Paul in a press briefing on Tuesday. Also Read| Random Covid-19 test for Delhi to Noida commuters from today: All you need to knowHe said Delhi had shown “dramatic improvement” when it came to timely hospitalisation of patients. “Initially, when the pandemic had started – till about June – nearly 60 to 70% of the deaths in hospitals happened within the first 72 hours. Half of these deaths happened within the first 24-hours of admission. In Delhi, there has been a dramatic change since. We are still monitoring the mortality as it shows the efficiency of the system – mobilising patients from home, ambulance service, access to beds, and efficiency of the treatment,” said Dr Paul. Admitting that private hospitals had played an important role, he said that the 10 inspection committees constituted by the government were to “improve coordination”. “The teams will inspect, see if there are any gaps and address them, and wherever they need help it will be extended. They will also see whether the patients and family satisfied,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hospitalisations-peak-at-9-000-88-icu-beds-full/story-toZOF7JQkaMqvyZEmTNiLM.html
18-11-2020||Delhi||On promise of out-of-turn promotions, cops trace 1,440 missing kids since early August||After the Delhi Police announced incentives, including out-of-turn promotions, to motivate its force to trace more number of children who have gone missing, a total of 1,440 kids were traced since early August -- a period which also saw another 1,222 children being reported missing.In sharp contrast, only 3,336 missing children were traced by the Delhi Police through entire year of 2019. In the first seven months of this year, too, before the incentives were announced, only 1,189 children had been traced, shows data released by the Delhi Police.Eish Singhal, the Delhi Police spokesperson, said a slew of efforts in a planned manner helped the police carry out the large number of trace and rescues of missing children. On August 7, Delhi Police chief SN Shrivastava had issued an order asking each police station to constitute a special team to trace missing children.“These children mostly belong to the lower strata of society. The detailed action plan included forming special teams in each police station and having the district deputy commissioners of police (DCPs) lead the exercise,” said Singhal.The exercise benefited after substantial incentives were announced for constables and head constables who helped search and rescue missing children.For example, constables and head constables who traced 50 or more missing children in a 12-month period could become eligible for an out-of-turn promotion. The children rescued by them should have been 14 years of age or less and they should have rescued at least 15 children below the age of eight years.Similarly, those who trace 15 children, at least five of them below the age of eight years, would be awarded the Asadharan Karta Puraskar, said Singhal.Since this plan was put into action in August, the police said they have traced 1,440 children to date, a period during which another 1,222 children went missing. In 2019, a total of 5,412 children had been reported missing and 61.64% of them were traced. This year, so far, the number of missing children is 3,507 while the recovery rate is 74.96%, Singhal said.While there were many stories of police walking the extra mile to reunite children with their parents, one stood out as it had transpired during the Covid-19 lockdown.It so happened that the police came across a six-year-old physically challenged child in a shelter home in north-east Delhi. The police went about tracing the child’s journey to that shelter home and eventually got to know that be had been reported missing from nearby Bhajanpura in November 2017 after being separated from his parents for over two years.“When we finally got to know of his parents, we found out that they had moved back to their village in Bihar. They were so impoverished that they didn’t have the money to even visit Delhi to be reunited with their child,” said Singhal.The police offered to pay their travel expenses to Delhi.But when the boy’s father reached Delhi, he got caught in the lockdown that came into effect on March 25.. “Until the lockdown was partially lifted by end-April, we paid for his stay here in Delhi. He was finally reunited with his son,” said the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/on-promise-of-out-of-turn-promotions-cops-trace-1-440-missing-kids-since-early-august/story-NE36XSzi42zzGr7qTb3RKN.html
18-11-2020||Delhi||North corp reserves beds for Covid patients at Hindu Rao hospital||Keeping in mind the rising number of cases in the city, the North Delhi Municipal Corporation on Tuesday reserved 20 ICU beds at the 980-bedded Hindu Rao Hospital for critical Covid-19 patients and created another Covid isolation ward of 50 beds. The move comes after Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday suggested that infrastructure at civic hospitals can be used to treat and isolate Covid-19 patients.North corporation mayor Jai Prakash inspected the hospital and held a meeting with its authorities to review preparations to convert it into a dedicated Covid facility.“The union home minister had said municipal hospitals can be used for Covid treatment. So we have earmarked 20 ICU beds for critical Covid-19 patients and set up a 50-bed Covid-19 isolation ward. A flu clinic has been started in the hospital. The hospital has started functioning partially as Covid-19 facility. Further arrangements such as logistical support and facility for doctors and nurses, who will treat Covid patients, to stay in the hospital premises or hotels are being made,” he said.The 980-bedded Hindu Rao Hospital is the largest medical facility run by the north corporation and caters to a large population in north Delhi. The hospital was made a fully Covid-19 dedicated facility in June this yea after cases had started increasing in the city. Also Read| Covid-19 in Delhi: Hospitalisations peak at 9,000; 88% ICU beds fullLater in October 2020, the hospital was removed from the list of dedicated Covid facilities after its doctors had gone on strike demanding pending salaries.The mayor said the number of beds in the isolation ward will be increased to 200 and ICU beds will be augmented. He requested the Delhi government to provide logistical support to convert the hospital into a Covid-19 facility. “Utilisation of health infrastructure at municipal hospitals will certainly help in coping with the sudden surge in the demand for Covid-19 beds. We are ready to help but we need logistical support from the government. I have written to the Delhi government to provide logistics such as medicines, including injections, PPE kits and other machinery required. We had spent Rs 4 crore earlier in Covid-related expenses but did not get any support from the state government,” Prakash said.Hospital authorities said preparations are still on to convert the hospital into a Covid facility. A senior functionary at Hindu Rao Hospital said, requesting anonymity, work related to the creation of more isolation wards, procurement of PPEs and medicines and preparation of a duty roster of doctors and nursing staff were being done.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe 200-bed north corporation-run Balakram Hospital in Timarpur will also be converted into a Covid Care Centre for mild cases. The 70-bed Tilak Nagar Super Speciality Hospital, which is run by the south civic body, is likely to be converted into a care centre for mild cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/north-corp-reserves-beds-for-covid-patients-at-hindu-rao-hospital/story-JYwpja57wDKEQqzAHBeGHL.html
18-11-2020||Delhi||BJP says govt should allow Chhath celebrations, AAP says Centre restricted festival||New Delhi: BJP leaders on Tuesday protested outside Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence against the ban on Chhath puja in public places. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) shot back at the BJP, saying it was the BJP-led Central government that had banned the celebrations and now the saffron party was doing politics over it.The party demanded immediate withdrawal of the decision and asked the government to make adequate arrangements in parks, other public places to allow the Purvanchalis to celebrate the festival.Delhi BJP general secretary Dinesh Pratap Singh said, “The CM has allowed opening of weekly markets, malls, opening liquor shops, e-rickshaws, DTC buses with full capacity, etc. He even performed puja at Akshardham temple on Diwali. Why he is discriminating with lakhs of Purvanchalis by banning Chhath Mahaparva?”The BJP said that the government should immediately withdraw the orders and start preparations for the festival in various parks in Delhi. Naveen Kumar, Delhi BJP media head, said, “As an alternative to the Yamuna ghats, pits can be dug in the 2,500 parks in Delhi for people to observe Chhath Puja while maintaining social distancing.”Meanwhile, North Delhi Mayor Jai Prakash on Tuesday inspected Chhath ghats in Keshavpuram Zone. During the inspection, the mayor directed the officials to ensure facilities at Chhath ghats before the special prayers. He said that a large number of Purvanchalis reside in Delhi and Chhath is a great festival of worship and faith for the people of Purvanchal and they celebrate it with great enthusiasm. All arrangements should be made at Chhath ghats. He appealed to the Delhi government to lift the ban on Chhath Puja and issue guidelines to control crowds during the festival.Senior Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Durgesh Pathak on Tuesday said that it was the BJP-ruled central government that has issued guidelines to stop the celebration of Chhath puja but the same BJP is doing politics and “falsely accusing” the Kejriwal Government of not allowing the celebration.“The celebration of Chhath Puja is a very important festival for the people of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. In Delhi, there are lakhs of people who originally reside from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Every year we celebrate the Chhath Puja in Delhi, but this year due to the Covid pandemic various restrictions were imposed. The guidelines issued by the central government’s home ministry under Amit Shah have imposed several restrictions on the celebration of Chhath Puja and this is why in Delhi and in many other states Chhath Puja will not take place in public. But it is unfortunate and shameful that BJP at one side is stopping the celebration of Chhath Puja and on the other side, they are politicising the issue,” Pathak said at a press conference.He added that the BJP at one hand has issued guidelines to stop the celebration in public but the same BJP on the other side is defaming the Delhi government by saying that the AAP government is not allowing Chhath celebration in Delhi. “This kind of politics is utterly shameful. The AAP demands that the BJP should immediately get the permission of celebrating Chhath Puja from home minister Amit Shah and the Delhi government will coordinate in the following process to ensure the celebration. The state governments right now are completely following the guidelines issued by the central government,” Pathak said.He said that the central government is under the BJP and this is why the AAP believes that the BJP leaders should immediately change the guidelines regarding performing the puja by Tuesday evening or Wednesday morning. “The AAP will meet the Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and ensure the celebration but the BJP should stop politicising the issue,” Pathak stressed.AAP MLA Sanjeev Jha said that earlier in Delhi there were only 72 places where the celebration of Chhath Puja used to take place but after the AAP government was formed, the number of ghats was increased to 1200.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/bjp-says-govt-should-allow-chhath-celebrations/story-7PJuhtCR2keJvkEjeQ8mFI.html
18-11-2020||Delhi||Two Jaish militants arrested in Delhi: Police||The Delhi Police on Tuesday said they arrested two Kashmir-based “militants” of the Jaish-e-Mohammad from Sarai Kale Khan in central Delhi and recovered two pistols and cartridges from them. The police said that the two suspects, Abdul Latif Mir and Mohd Asraf Khatana, were planning to stay in south Delhi’s Nizamuddin for a few days before proceeding to Uttar Pradesh where they would allegedly receive some basic weapon training. Thereafter, the two suspects would cross over to Pakistan with the help of their Pakistani handlers, said Sanjeev Kumar Yadav, deputy commissioner of police (special cell). “In the past, these two men and their friends had made multiple attempts to cross the Indo-Pak border from places like Kupwara, Hyma and Keran in Kashmir, but their plans were foiled by the tight vigil of the security forces at the borders,” said Yadav. The officer said that the special cell received a tip-off on Monday about the presence of the two suspects in Delhi. “We laid a trap and caught them in the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday. We recovered two guns and 10 cartridges from them,” said Yadav. The officer said that a lot of “incriminating material” in the form of audio, video and literature have been recovered from their mobile phones. Mir, 22, belongs to Baramulla while the other 20-year-old suspect, Khatana, belongs to Kupwara. “Mir’s role model is JeM chief, Maulana Masood Azhar. Mir even has Azhar’s image as his Facebook display picture. He would listen to news on social media about brutality against Muslims across the world and that developed the ‘Jihadi mentality’ in him,” said Yadav. Four months ago, Yadav said, Mir came in contact with a Pakistani man through Facebook Messenger chat. “Mir requested the Pakistani man to allow him a chance to join Azhar. Through the same man, Mir later got in touch with the Pakistan-based JeM operatives who said they would help him cross the border,” said the DCP. Khatana had met Mir in Kashmir and they shared the same “ideology” because of which they became friends, said the DCP. “Khatana was brainwashed by local villagers about atrocities conducted by security forces on Kashmiri Muslims,” said Yadav. The police did not say whether the two arrested men had been involved in any terror attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-jem-militants-held-in-delhi-police/story-50cGhv5lNflMmF9EU2YjgM.html
18-11-2020||Education||Delhi govt moves Supreme Court, challenges HC order on free gadgets, internet||The Delhi government has filed an appeal in the Supreme Court, challenging a Delhi high court order directing private unaided schools in the national capital to provide free gadgets and internet connections to poor students for online classes and claim a reimbursement from the state government. The plea has contended that such a measure will “open up a Pandora’s Box of reimbursement and misuse of public money”.The high court order on September 18 came on a petition filed by the NGO ‘Justice For All’ through advocate Khagesh B Jha and secretary Shikha Bagga, seeking electronic devices such as laptops or smartphones with high-speed Internet packages, for students enrolled under the EWS (Economically Weaker Section) and DG (Disadvantaged Groups) categories in private schools. HT, on September 24, had reported that the government has decided to challenge the order in the apex court. A Delhi government spokesperson on Tuesday confirmed that a special leave petition (SLP) has been filed before the Supreme Court challenging the high court order and seeking an interim ex-parte stay on the implementation of the order. The matter is expected to come up for hearing this week. In its SLP filed on November 5, a copy of which is with HT, the Delhi government said the decision of conducting online classes was taken “voluntarily” by private schools. The government schools have been providing education in a “blended mode” (online and in-person) ever since in-person classes were suspended in March owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. “The order passed by the high court is erroneous and will open up a Pandora’s Box of reimbursement and misuse of public money…Imparting online education by private schools was purely voluntary in nature and never intended or directed by the petitioner (Delhi government).”“Such voluntary activity is outside the purview of the Right to Education (RTE) Act and therefore beyond the scope of application of Section 12 (1)(c). However, whatever the facilities extended by private schools to attract the fee-paying children cannot be denied to the 25% EWS students as the central idea of RTE Act..” it said.Section 12(1)(c) of the RTE Act mandates 25% reservation of seats in entry-level classes — nursery, kindergarten, and class 1 -- for students from EWS/DG categories in private unaided schools. These students are entitled to free textbooks, writing material, and uniforms up to class 8, for which the government reimburses the schools a fixed amount. The Centre and the states share the costs in a 60:40 ratio.The Delhi government said the court failed to consider that the primary objective of the RTE Act, 2009, was to universalize elementary education between the age group of six to 14 years and not to “modernise or glamourise” education. “However, the court has exceeded its jurisdiction and rewritten the entire vital part (soul) of the RTE without any deliberation by Parliament and made it school-centric which will affect the progression of the RTE Act across the country,” it said.The government said if private schools can afford to provide online education, then they are bound to give inclusive education to EWS students as well and the government was not obliged to reimburse the capital expenditure. Advocate Kamal Gupta, who is representing a few private schools in the case, said, “The Delhi government wants to take the credit of supply of equipment to EWS category children, but not pay for it. If the government was at all serious or had any interest of children’s meaningful education, it would have started online education and distributed gadgets to all students in government schools.”Petitioner Khagesh Jha said EWS students in private schools are suffering. “Many of them may drop out due to the unavailability of devices and internet facilities. The financial dispute can be settled later as well. Who will take the responsibility if students drop out in the meantime?” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-in-supreme-court-challenges-hc-order-on-free-gadgets-internet/story-vRjtrRa5araLM7J9ob8trL.html
18-11-2020||Delhi||HC‘shocked’: Welfare board finds just 28 of 740 registered circus animals||The Delhi high court on Tuesday expressed shock over the huge gap in the number of circus animals found by the Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) during a survey of circuses across the country as compared to the number of animals registered with it.During the hearing, a bench of justice Vipin Sanghi and justice Rajnish Bhatnagar was informed by one of the petitioner counsels that though the AWBI had around 740 circus animals registered with it, a recent survey by the Board could find only 28 of them.The court then sought to know from the AWBI and the Central Zoo Authority (CZA) what had happened to the remaining animals. It asked both parties to file an affidavit disclosing the status of the circus animals registered with the Board and listed the matter for further hearing to January 2021.The court was hearing pleas by People for Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) and Federation of Indian Animals Protection Organisation (FIAPO) for protecting circus animals stranded across the country due to the Covid-19 pandemic.“This is a serious issue. Of the 740 (animals) registered with you (AWBI), you have only 28 to answer for. What happened to the rest of them,” the high court asked AWBI.“One shocking thing that has been revealed is that of the 740 animals, information is available with regard to only 28, leaving a massive gap,” the court said, noting the submissions of the FIAPO counsel, senior advocate Dayan Krishnan, said.The court also asked the Board why it had only inspected 19 of the 28 circuses in the country. It also directed the Board to inform the court about how many circuses are operational and what had happened to animals in circuses that have shut down.An official from CZA told the bench that animals of closed circuses and those not registered with AWBI are the concern and responsibility of the respective state wildlife authority.It further told the court that the authorities were in the process of withdrawing recognition given to the Great Golden Circus in Gujarat, the only one in the country that is recognised under the Wildlife Protection Act.Action is being taken against Golden Circus for alleged violations with regard to maintenance and display of captive elephants, the CZA told the judges.PETA India, represented by advocates Aman Hingorani and Swati Sumbly, has claimed in its plea that due to the Covid-19 outbreak and the resultant lockdown, circuses are finding it difficult to feed the animals which are now slowly starving to death.The FIAPO, which is a group of 100 organisations working for animal rights, has challenged the constitutional validity of sections 21 to 27 of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act so far as they permit exhibition and training of animals in relation to circus acts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hc-shocked-of-740-circus-animals-in-country-animal-welfare-board-could-account-for-only-28/story-FCkyYsIl1upBD6r4OmiTAO.html
18-11-2020||Noida||Noida authority asks officials to collect only segregated waste to improve Swachhta ranking||The Noida authority on Tuesday directed its health department officials to start preparations for the upcoming Swachhta Survey-2020-21 well in advance to help the city perform better. Indu Prakash Singh, Noida authority’s officer on special duty, held a meeting with health department officials and all private agencies engaged in waste collection, transportation and remediation work in the city. The meeting held in Indira Gandhi Kala Kendra in Sector 6 saw the participation of engineers, project engineers and sanitation employees.“We have asked the health department officials and the private agencies to collect only segregated waste from households in residential sectors and villages. We have also asked the staff to start preparing for the Swachhta Survey-2020-21,” said Singh.The ministry of housing and urban affairs will visit Noida next year to check the level of cleanliness and take feedback from the residents. The process will start from the beginning of January next year and will be completed by the end of the month. Noida ranked the cleanest city of the Uttar Pradesh and also secured the 25th spot in the country under the Swachh Survekshan 2020 — an annual survey conducted by the ministry of housing and urban affairs on cleanliness under the Swachh Bharat Mission, announced on August 20, 2020.Now the authority is hoping o perform even better in next year’s survey. As such, it wants to take all the necessary steps to secure a better ranking on the Swachhta index, said officials.Noida, which has a total of 165 sectors and 65 villages, produces nearly 900 metric tonne of waste. Although the authority has started collecting door-to-door waste with the help of 250 vehicles and 21 compact machines, segregated waste is collected only from 22 housing complexes. Officials point out that most households do not segregate their waste.As such, the authority’s main focus is to segregate 100% waste to perform better in the survey.“If we are able to segregate waste at each household and then collect and treat it, then the city can improve its cleanliness score,” said Singh.The authority has been also appealing to individuals and citizen groups to come forward to help them in segregation and making the city cleaner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-authority-asks-officials-to-collect-only-segregated-waste-to-improve-swachhta-ranking/story-vp8DEsCHY4AWq7Dc3XH4sL.html
18-11-2020||Gurugram||18 houses in Bhondsi illegal colony demolished amid protests||The department of town and country planning (DTCP) on Tuesday demolished 18 fully constructed houses at an unauthorised colony in Bhondsi, amid stiff resistance and protests by owners and local residents. DTCP officials said that it took them almost an hour to start the demolition drive after reaching the spot, as a large number of people had gathered at the site and refused to give way. It was only after the intervention by a posse of the Gurugram police that the demolition process commenced in the colony, they said. RS Bhath, district town planner, enforcement, who led the team, said that 18 houses were demolished along with 50 plinths and a long boundary wall in the colony, which is being developed on around 12 acres. “A survey was conducted last week and the inspection revealed that 18 houses had been newly constructed but were not occupied by the owners. We demolished those houses as they were built against all norms, in an unauthorised colony,” said Bhath. Even as the demolition drive was being carried out, a large number of locals and area residents raised slogans against the DTCP officials, following which the police again had to intervene again and issue a warning to the protesters. DTCP officials said the protests escalated when a group of locals gathered on Sohna Road and threw a large pipe on the road to block the route, causing a short traffic jam. “When we came to know about the protest at Sohna Road, the police team, along with DTCP team, marched around one kilometre to the spot and made the protesters to leave the area. We have also conducted videography of the entire protest to identify the persons causing trouble,” said Bhath.DTCP officials said that they had carried out demolition drives in the same colony twice in the past, but the landowners and plot buyers refused to heed their warnings. “The department has come up with new policies to develop such land for residential purposes. The owners should get licences and then sell it or develop, but they can’t be allowed to simply flout the rules,” said Bhath. DTCP officials said that despite the protests, the demolition was carried out and similar drives would be carried out across the city in the next two weeks. “We appeal to plot buyers not to invest in unauthorised colonies and instead, buy property in affordable projects. We have also thanked the Gurugram police for its strong support today and during other such drives,” said Bhath. In a related development, the department has recommended that an FIR be registered against a developer for selling plots in illegal colonies in Badshahpur, Bhondsi and Sohna. “I called the company number and their representatives tried to sell me an illegal plot. We have decided to lodge an FIR against them,” Bhath said. Subash Boken, public relations officer, Gurugram police, said that adequate police force was deployed during the drive to prevent any untoward incident. “There were arguments only and nothing major happened,” he said. Harish Vashist, whose shop in Bhondsi was demolished on Tuesday by DTCP officials, said that the department had not given them any notice regarding the action. “We have built the shop on our land and this was not part of an unauthorised colony. We had spent around Rs 8 lakh of our hard earned money and the entire family is devastated,” said Vashisht.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/18-houses-in-bhondsi-illegal-colony-demolished-amid-protests/story-NYP740fG68Id5UzNKdfDaI.html
18-11-2020||Gurugram||Mediation forum of H-Rera, Gurugram holds its first session||The newly established mediation forum at Haryana Real Estate Regulatory Authority (H-Rera) in Gurugram started functioning from Monday. H-Rera officials said the response from developers, homebuyers and other stakeholders is encouraging as people want a quick resolution of their problems through mediation and discussion rather than taking the time-consuming legal route. The mediation panel comprises SC Goyal, retired district and sessions judge, who is the adjudicating officer (AO); Deepa Malik, chief grievance redressal and chief public relation officer, and Geeta Rathee Singh, senior legal officer. On Monday, the panel heard 36 cases against a real estate developer, which were pending for a long time before the authority. H-Rera officials said these complaints were referred for mediation by the developer and were heard during the first session on Monday. KK Khandelwal, chairman, H-Rera, said, “Such mediation forums are the need of the hour. The authority is overburdened by a long list of pending complaints. Many of these complaints can be resolved through a few sittings.Mediation can save the aggrieved allottees from the very exhausting and expensive battle of litigation.” Officials of H-Rera, Gurugram, stated that the developer, Emaar, offered to assist the allottees for an amicable resolution, with the help of an expert panel appointed by H-Rera. During the mediation process, compensation for delayed possession charges (DPC) was given to those who had booked their flats in various projects of the developer but could not get the possession. Both the promoter and allottees agreed to resolve the issues through discussion and deliberation. “Mediation is a new process for the allottees. I feel that they need to come with a positive attitude and make the best use of this process”, said Deepa Malik. Representative of Emaar did not respond to requests for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mediation-forum-of-h-rera-gurugram-holds-its-first-session/story-ViChhBFFV8GRyvoHo9GAWP.html
18-11-2020||Ranchi||Lalu Prasad stays in bungalow, allottee in guest house; BJP questions ‘irony’||The Jharkhand Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has questioned the continuation of Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief and fodder scam accused Lalu Prasad in the director’s bungalow of Rajendra institute of medical science (RIMS) while the new director was staying in the state guest house after taking charge.“It’s an irony that the director is a paying guest and the prisoner is enjoying a good time in his bungalow,” said BJP spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo. He also mentioned that the state guest house charges Rs 800 per day and questioned why the government would spend public money to bear the cost of housing an accused.“It is a strange situation,” he said, adding that the Hemant Soren government was meting out special treatment to the fodder scam accused.BJP state president Deepak Prakash questioned why an accused serving jail terms should be allowed to stay at Kelly’s bungalow (as RIMS director’s bungalow is known).He said Lalu was shifted from the paying ward in August when there was a spurt in coronavirus cases and RIMS has a covid ward. “Now the virus infection is on the decline and the prisoner should be moved out of the director’s bungalow to the jail,” Prakash said.Also Read: Tejashwi Yadav is a very good boy, can lead after he grows older: Uma BhartiInspector general in charge of Jharkhand prisons said there was no decision regarding his shifting as of now. The IG (Prison) mentioned that the authority would abide by the court order.The RJD chief was admitted to RIMS in December 2018 and shifted to Kelly’s bunglow four months back for clinical safety as he was suffering from critical ailments.Also Read: 10 kids, 2 adults die of ‘unknown’ disease in 4 Jharkhand villages, doctors suspect MalariaRecently, Lalu had applied for bail that was to be heard on November 6. The Jharkhand high court has deferred the hearing to November 27, however.Dr Umesh Prasad, who was treating Lalu, said he has 16 diseases and requires regular monitoring. “We have submitted (health documents) and (are) waiting for the court’s directives,” he said.The RIMS in the recent past has submitted the details of Lalu’s health condition in writing to the Jharkhand high court that was monitoring the fodder scam cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/lalu-prasad-stays-in-bungalow-occupant-in-guest-house-bjp-questions-irony/story-JsDZMePKysiabciV2PViZP.html
18-11-2020||City||19 kids test positive in Rewari school||The Rewari administration on Tuesday decided to shut down the government senior secondary school at Kund village for three days after 19 students tested positive for Covid-19.District nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Vijay Prakash, said they had collected samples of 34 students, of whom reports of 19 turned out to be positive. The test result of remaining students will be declared by Wednesday morning.“These students hailed from neighbouring Palra village and we have decided to shut down the school for the next three days. I have directed the health officials to sanitise the school and houses of the students. We will collect the samples of the students’ family members and other villagers tomorrow,” the nodal officer added.He further said the students were asymptomatic and in home isolation. Earlier, three students had tested positive for the virus at a government school in Jind’s Narwana on November 6, four days after schools reopened for classes 9 to 12 in Haryana amid pandemic. Haryana on Tuesday reported 2,450 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the tally in the state to 2,04,477, while 25 more fatalities pushed the death toll to 2,063, according to the state health department’s daily bulletin.At present, there are 19,153 active cases in the state, while the recovery rate was 89.62%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/19-kids-test-positive-in-rewari-school/story-3HGXSf7AiCSM6rDlwEJdAJ.html
18-11-2020||Chandigarh||Former Himachal Pradesh Speaker Tulsi Ram passes away at 76||Former Himachal Pradesh Vidhan Sabha Speaker Tulsi Ram, 76, passed away after a brief illness on Monday night.He is survived by his wife and two sons. He was undergoing treatment for a kidney-related ailment at a private hospital in Kangra. The former speaker was cremated with full state honours at his native village in Bharmour. Forest Minister Rakesh Pathania, deputy speaker Himachal Pradesh Assembly Hansraj and Bharmour MLA Jia Lal were among others present to pay their last respect to the deceased leader. Ram, who worked as a clerk, unsuccessfully contested his first election as an independent candidate in 1982. He again contested the elections on a BJP ticket in 1985 but lost. He was first elected to the state assembly in 1990 and was re-elected in 1998 and 2007. Ram, who represented tribal Bharmour constituency thrice, was elected Speaker on January 11, 2008. The party denied him the ticket in the 2012 assembly elections and replaced him with Jia Lal. He left the BJP in 2015. Known for his simplicity, Ram was settled in Palampur. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur expressed grief over the death of the former speaker. “May God give the departed soul peace and the bereaved family the strength to bear this grief,” Thakur tweeted. Former chief minister Shanta Kumar remembered Tulsi Ram as a hardworking party worker. “He did appreciable work as three-time legislator of Bharmour and as the Speaker of the state assembly,” Shanta said. Rajya Sabha Member Indu Goswami also condoled the death of the former speaker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/former-himachal-pradesh-speaker-tulsi-ram-passes-away-at-76/story-dsQA9VOK5ep2qj7keXBeFN.html
18-11-2020||World||Europe fosters shift to electric cars with subsidies, bans||Europe is taking unprecedented steps to phase out gasoline and diesel cars and bring an end to the almost 150-year-long era of the internal combustion engine.The UK’s 2030 ban on cars lacking a plug and Germany’s four-year extension of subsidies for electric vehicles reflect the carrot-and-stick approach governments are taking to getting auto companies to embrace batteries. Regulatory pressure already has helped EVs seize a greater share of passenger-car sales in Europe than any other developed auto market in the world.The industry has pleaded for the help because sales are sliding again due to the pandemic. There also will be drawbacks: the need for fewer workers to manufacture battery-powered cars will spur tens of thousands of job cuts over the coming years. And while costs are coming down, EVs are still years away from reaching price parity with the gas and diesel cars consumers are used to.“In the long term, the days of the internal combustion engine in Europe are numbered,” Colin McKerracher, head of advanced transport for BloombergNEF, said by phone. “While the policy is driving the supply side, there is also a real demand for these vehicles. The people who are buying EVs love them.”The political pushes and pulls driving Europe’s EV sales momentum are starting to lure battery-manufacturing investments that suppliers have for years been reluctant to make. China’s SVolt Energy Technology Co. said Tuesday it will join larger peer Contemporary Amperex Technology Ltd. in opening a factory in Germany in the coming years. Tesla Inc. cell supplier Panasonic Corp. also may start up a battery business in Norway.BMW AG also said Wednesday it will spend 400 million euros ($475 million) to add an electric-car assembly at its main plant in Munich. By the end of 2022, each of its German plants will produce at least one fully electric vehicle.While the UK is moving up its gas- and diesel-car ban by a decade, its 10-point plan to foster a “green industrial revolution” doesn’t take an entirely prohibitive approach. Prime Minister Boris Johnson announced almost 2.4 billion pounds ($3.2 billion) of subsidies and support for charging infrastructure, EV development and production.That amount of backing will only partially offset Brexit uncertainties gripping the industry and pales in comparison to Germany’s aid. Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government is offering carmakers and suppliers 5 billion euros to help weather the coronavirus crisis and invest in electric cars.“Germany is developing into the lead market for e-mobility!” Volkswagen AG Chief Executive Officer Herbert Diess wrote in a LinkedIn post. “The federal government’s plan to electrify private transport is working,” he said, pointing to electric and plug-in cars seizing 17.5% market share.Others in the industry are less sanguine. Electric vehicles account for only about 5% of sales in the UK, with prohibitive cost and a dearth of charging infrastructure holding back demand, said Mike Hawes, chief executive officer of the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders.“All the conversations we have with customers, with drivers, all they’re concerned about is availability of charging,” Hawes said in an interview with Bloomberg Television.Automakers similarly pushed back in September after the European Union released plans to set stricter emissions limits for the next decade. To reduce carbon-dioxide emissions by 55% from 1990 levels rather than the previously planned 40%, the European Commission sees carmakers needing to gradually phase out combustion engines.While EVs including the Tesla Model 3, VW ID.3 and Renault Zoe are having some success, UK carmaker Jaguar Land Rover has struggled to get much traction with its I-Pace electric crossover. Electric and plug-in hybrid cars were just 6% of sales last quarter.“It’s not our job to defend the internal combustion engine,” BMW CEO Oliver Zipse said at an event Wednesday hosted by the newspaper Sueddeutsche Zeitung. “We will make what the customer wants to buy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/europe-fosters-shift-to-electric-cars-with-subsidies-bans/story-TX7jLDsr7ReCziqC0YHEZO.html
18-11-2020||World||Berlin police forcefully disperse protest over Covid-19 restrictions||German police used water cannons and pepper spray Wednesday to disperse people protesting coronavirus restrictions in Berlin’s government district, after crowds ignored calls to wear masks and keep their distance from one another in line with pandemic regulations.As water sprayed from the cannons rained down on protesters outside the landmark Brandenburg Gate, police in riot gear moved through the crowd carrying away some participants. Some demonstrators threw fireworks, flares and other objects in response as police helicopters hovered overhead.Officers avoided shooting the cannons directly at protesters because there were children in the crowd, and they worked slowly and methodically to disperse the crowd, Berlin police spokesman Thilo Cabiltz said. Some protesters popped open umbrellas and held their ground until they were eventually forced back.More than 100 people were arrested, Cabiltz said, and many more temporarily detained. Nine police officers were injured. The protest crowd thinned significantly by late afternoon as many demonstrators marched back to the city’s main train station, chanting and blowing whistles.One protester held a sign saying “Infection Protection Law=Dictatorship.” Another waved one reading “Truth, Freedom, Don’t Touch Our Constitution.”The protests came as German lawmakers debated a bill that would provide legal underpinning for the government to issue social distancing rules, require masks in public and to close stores and other venues to slow the spread of the virus.The bill easily passed both the lower and upper houses of Germany’s parliament and was fast-tracked to the country’s president, who signed it later Wednesday.While the virus-prevention measures are supported by most people in Germany, a vocal minority has staged regular rallies around the country, arguing that the restrictions are unconstitutional.Health Minister Jens Spahn, defended the measures in parliament ahead of the vote, telling lawmakers that authorities “struggle every day in trying to strike the balance” between restrictions and safeguarding democratic freedoms.But he insisted that Germany had found the right path, noting that it has fared much better during the pandemic than many of its European neighbors.“Where would you rather be than in Germany?” he asked lawmakers from the far-right Alternative for Germany party who criticized the lockdown measures.Overall, the country has reported about 833,000 coronavirus cases and more than 13,000 virus-related deaths in the pandemic, a death toll one-fourth the size of Britain’s.Spahn also praised the efforts of German pharmaceutical company BioNTech, which together with Pfizer is leading the race to develop a vaccine against Covid-19. The health minister denied that vaccinations would be compulsory, a claim repeatedly made by those protesting against government measures.German authorities took the rare step Tuesday of banning a series of protests directly outside the parliament building due to security concerns. Fencing was put up around a wide area that included the Bundestag, nearby parliamentary offices, the federal chancellery and the presidential residence and offices.Outside the metal cordons, protesters gathered early Wednesday by the Brandenburg Gate, and on streets and bridges. The demonstrators came from all walks of life, ranging from the far-left to the far-right, and included families and students.“We want our lives back,” read one sign carried by protesters. Another said “Put banks under surveillance, not citizens.” One demonstrator held a flag with a picture of outgoing US President Donald Trump and an image invoking the right-wing conspiracy theory “QAnon.” Another had a placard showing top German virologist Christian Drosten in prison garb with the word “guilty.”Berlin police said they gave out multiple citations at Wednesday’s demonstration for violating mask-wearing regulations, but that their appeals for people to wear protective gear and to keep their distance from one another were largely ignored. The police department warned that officers had received an order to detain people not following the regulations.“If that does not help, the only course that remains is to disperse the gathering,” the department said on Twitter.German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas reacted sharply to the accusation from some protesters that the measures were akin to the 1933 “Enabling Act,” which allowed the Nazis to enact laws without parliamentary approval.“Everyone, naturally, has the right to criticize the measures, our democracy thrives through the exchange of different opinions,” he wrote on Twitter. “But whoever relativizes or trivializes the Holocaust has learned nothing from our history.”A demonstration earlier this month in the eastern city of Leipzig ended in chaos when thousands of protesters defied police orders to wear masks and, later, to disperse. Some participants attacked police officers and journalists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/berlin-police-forcefully-disperse-protest-over-covid-19-restrictions/story-VsVrTDPuPgyESqgrw3jdiM.html
18-11-2020||World||Indian-origin student leads Oxford University meat-free campus drive||An Indian-origin student is among a group from the University of Oxford Student Union that is leading a drive towards a meat-free campus as part of wider initiatives to cut the university’s greenhouse emissions.Vihan Jain from the university’s Worcester College joined two fellow students to draft a motion mandating the Student Union to lobby for a ban on beef and lamb in university catering services, which was recently passed with 31 votes to 9 and 13 abstentions.“As the UK’s premier university, the nation looks to Oxford for leadership, but Oxford has shown a lack of leadership in addressing climate change,” reads the motion.“The banning of beef and lamb at university-catered events and outlets is a feasible and effective strategy to help the university meet its revised 2030 goal,” it reads.The move means that the Student Union will now actively lobby the university and individual colleges to move towards meat reduction and eventual removal from campus.Responding to criticisms that the beef and lamb ban could affect the local economy, Jain told the ‘The Oxford Student’ publication that “alternative food offerings can be sourced from local enterprises and can therefore contribute to the local economy, but ‘eat local’ can be a deceptive piece of advice”.According to an Oxford-led study published in the journal ‘Science’ this week, what we eat, how much we eat, how much is wasted, and how food is produced need to change drastically by 2050, if we want to limit the increase in global temperatures to 1.5°C or 2°C above pre-industrial levels. “The good news is, there are many achievable ways rapidly to reduce food emissions if they are acted on quickly. These include both raising crop yields and reducing food loss and waste, but the most important is for individuals to shift towards predominantly plant-based diets,” said Dr Michael Clark of the Oxford Martin School and Nuffield Department of Population Health, who is the lead author on the paper. Reducing the carbon emissions and biodiversity impact of the university’s food system is one of the nine priority areas of the University’s Environmental Sustainability Strategy. The Strategy has the ultimate goal of achieving net zero carbon by 2035 and addressing the global challenges of climate change and biodiversity loss. “The university is currently consulting on a draft sustainability strategy which will be approved next year and includes proposals to reduce the carbon and ecological impact of the food it supplies. These policies will be further developed in the light of the consultation response,” a spokesperson for Oxford University said.The University of Cambridge has banned beef and lamb and reported a 33 per cent reduction in carbon emissions per kilogram of food purchased and a 28 per cent reduction in land use per kilogramme of food purchased. London School of Economics (LSE), Goldsmiths and the University of London are among other UK institutions to ban the sale of beef or lamb in campus outlets in recent years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indian-origin-student-leads-oxford-university-meat-free-campus-drive/story-tGdO9ii8fYIsRqvhZh1hLI.html
18-11-2020||World||Europe sees first dip in Covid-19 cases in months, but deaths up: WHO||The number of new Covid-19 cases declined last week for the first time in over three months, but deaths in the region continued to climb, WHO data showed Wednesday.In total, nearly four million cases of the novel coronavirus were registered worldwide during the week ending Sunday, and almost 60,000 people died from the disease during the same period, the World Health Organization said.Europe, which on Tuesday saw its total number of coronavirus infections climb past 15 million, remained the hardest-hit region.Also Read: Strict lockdown may have helped in curbing Europe’s second wave of Covid-19, says WHOLast week it accounted for 46 percent of the new global cases and 49 percent of the deaths, the UN health agency’s weekly epidemiological update showed.With 1.84 million new cases registered, the caseload across the region remained staggeringly high, but WHO noted that “in the past week, for the first time in over three months, the region observed a decline of 10 percent in weekly cases.”At the same time though, more than 29,000 new Covid-19 deaths were registered across Europe -- an 18 percent jump from the previous week, it said.The WHO data showed that Austria reported the sharpest increase in new cases on the continent last week, marking a 30 percent hike from the previous week.The Americas, which is the second worst-hit region, meanwhile continued to show surging numbers of cases and a hike in deaths from the novel coronavirus.Also Read: EU Commission recommends wide use of rapid Covid-19 testsCase numbers across the region grew by over 40 percent, with more than 1.45 million new cases registered, and deaths were up by 11 percent, with over 19,100 new fatalities during the seven-day period.More than one million of the new cases were seen in the United States, which has counted nearly 11 million cases since the beginning of the pandemic.The only region that saw a decline in the number of new cases and deaths last week was Southeast Asia, WHO said.Worldwide, more than 1.3 million people have died of Covid-19 and over 55 million have been infected with the virus since it first surfaced in China late last year, according to a tally from official sources compiled by AFP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/europe-sees-first-dip-in-covid-19-cases-in-months-but-deaths-up-who/story-PD5Ly6oVPCuVbzWEybsT7O.html
18-11-2020||World||Head of England’s test and trace system asked to self-isolate by mobile app designed by her||Dido Harding, the head of England’s COVID-19 test and trace system, has been told to self-isolate by her own mobile phone app.“Nothing like personal experience of your own products ....got this overnight,” she wrote on Twitter on Wednesday above a graphic from her phone with the message ‘You need to self-isolate’.Nothing like personal experience of your own products ....got this overnight. Feeling well. Many hours of Zoom ahead. pic.twitter.com/Ims9W9gbQh“Feeling well. Many hours of Zoom ahead,” she added.Harding was appointed to run England’s coronavirus tracing programme in May with the task of overseeing a team to locate contacts of those who tested positive for the virus.However, there was criticism of her appointment because of her limited experience of health care and also as her husband, John Penrose, is a lawmaker from Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s Conservative Party.Official figures showed last week that the proportion of contacts of positive cases reached by her system remained at record lows, with about 60% of contacts reached, well below the 80% target.Her system has managed to reach Johnson, who was told to self-isolate on Sunday, and her husband, who received the same instruction from his phone app on Nov. 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/head-of-england-s-test-and-trace-dido-harding-system-asked-to-self-isolate-by-mobile-app-designed-by-her/story-3Ph1USUIB7h0ORZCkSkrRI.html
18-11-2020||World||Biden turns to coronavirus as Trump fights to overturn election||US President-elect Joe Biden will meet with healthcare workers on the frontlines of the coronavirus crisis in a virtual event on Wednesday, as outgoing President Donald Trump expands his campaign to overturn the election results.Trump has refused to concede the Nov. 3 election, blocking the smooth transition to a new administration. Biden has pledged to make the pandemic, which has killed more than 247,000 people in the United States and cost millions their jobs, a top priority when he takes office on Jan. 20.Biden and his senior advisers have said that Trump’s defiance could jeopardize efforts to contain surging Covid-19 cases and inhibit vaccine distribution planning.Also Read: Covid-19: Third American wave breaking all recordsThat sentiment was echoed by three leading U.S. healthcare organizations on Tuesday that addressed the president directly in an open letter, urging him to share critical Covid-19 data with the Biden team.“As providers of care for all Americans, we see the suffering that is occurring in our communities due to Covid-19....It is from this front line human perspective that we urge you to share critical data and information as soon as possible,” said the letter, signed by the heads of the American Medical Association, the American Nurses Association and the American Hospitals Association.While Biden participates in the virtual roundtable from his home state of Delaware on Wednesday, Trump again has no public events scheduled.Trump has claimed, without providing evidence, that he was was cheated out of a victory by widespread fraud and he has fired off a flurry of lawsuits that judges have mostly rejected. Biden won the national popular vote by more than 5.6 million votes, or 3.6 percentage points, with some ballots still being counted. In the state-by-state Electoral College that determines the winner, Biden captured 306 votes to the Republican Trump’s 232.LONG SHOT TO OVERTURN VOTETo remain in office, Trump would need to overturn results in at least three of the most closely contested states in unprecedented fashion to reach the threshold of 270 electoral votes.States face a Dec. 8 deadline to certify election results in time for the official Electoral College vote on Dec. 14.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageCongress is scheduled to count the Electoral College votes on Jan. 6, which is normally a formality. But Trump supporters in the Senate and House of Representatives could object to the results in a final, long-shot attempt to deprive Biden of 270 electoral votes and turn the final decision over to House.Trump on Tuesday fired the top U.S. cybersecurity official, who had irked Trump by refusing to support allegations of election fraud. Chris Krebs was removed as head of the Department of Homeland Security’s Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency. His work in protecting the election from hackers and combating disinformation about the vote won praise from lawmakers of both parties, as well as election officials around the country. A Biden spokesman praised Krebs, saying he “should be commended for his service in protecting our elections, not fired for telling the truth”.Taking their cue from the president, Republicans across the country have attempted to cast doubt over the results. In Michigan, where Biden won by 145,000 votes, two Republicans on the Wayne County board of canvassers attempted to hold up Biden’s victory in that state on Tuesday, only to relent hours later.In a county that includes the majority-Black city of Detroit and that voted overwhelmingly in favor of Biden, the two board members initially voted to block certification of the results, citing slight inconsistencies in precinct totals. That drew praise from Trump, who said on Twitter that “having courage is a beautiful thing”. But the Republicans reversed their decision after more than two hours of angry public comment and voted to certify the Wayne County results, with the caveat the Michigan secretary of state conduct an audit of precinct tallies.At a federal court hearing in Pennsylvania on Tuesday, U.S. District Judge Matthew Brann appeared skeptical of Trump’s request to block officials from certifying Biden’s win in that state.“At bottom, you are asking this court to invalidate 6.8 million votes, thereby disenfranchising every single voter in the Commonwealth (of Pennsylvania),” Brann said. “Can you tell me how this result can possibly be justified?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-turns-to-coronavirus-as-trump-fights-to-overturn-election/story-ZaGBmlstsLG2L9syLWr1BP.html
18-11-2020||World||Experts says public-private partnership required for providing healthcare to all||The Covid-19 pandemic has demonstrated that healthcare is not a solely local or national issue, it is a global issue and there is need for public-private partnerships to provide healthcare, experts said on Wednesday. Emphasising the need for both public and private sectors, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Director Randeep Guleria said, “Private and government sectors complement each other. There is no competition between the two sectors.” He added that there are certain areas where the public sector can do better whether it be training, be it having more medical colleges and trying to run them, or providing care as far as preventive medicine is concerned. A lot of programmes, such as child immunisation programme or TB control, can be run only as part of the public sector, he said. “When we are talking of patient care, there has to be a little bit of understanding and that is being rightly said that public-partnership has to be in a way that there is confidence on both sides,” Guleria said. Covid-19 has taught us a lot and we have learnt that we have to work together, he added. Stating that healthcare is a global issue, NHS UK Former Chairman Malcolm Grant said there are four areas where governments have a crucial role to play. First being refocusing the tune of healthcare systems away from investments in hospitals as their primary priority and invest much more in community and populations, he added. The second is to ensure that innovation is well focused, the third area is to ensure clinical governance and clinical standards, the last being to focus on training of healthcare force, Grant said. He was speaking at a session in ‘Asia Health 2020’, organised by the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare and CII. Emphasising that while their focus is on clinical outcomes, the private players in the healthcare sector are worried about the cost because they need sustainability, Asia Health 2020 Chairperson and Apollo Hospitals MD Suneeta Reddy said. “We hope the governments will make higher allocations towards healthcare and move towards public-private partnerships,” she added. Narayana Hrudalaya Chairman Devi Shetty said no government in the world can have resources and financial capability to offer healthcare to 1.3 billion people from just taxpayers money. Two things that will transform healthcare in the country are financial intermediary for working class people, and a smart digital tool that is available to every hospital, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/experts-says-public-private-partnership-required-for-providing-healthcare-to-all/story-lsGcJHIMaL7EWyO7YHE66H.html
18-11-2020||World||Reclusive billionaire thrives as pandemic shoppers crowd stores||Tomasz Biernacki doesn’t want attention.The Polish businessman, 46, hasn’t done any major media interviews since crashing his Ferrari F430 more than a decade ago. He didn’t show up at the stock exchange when his company went public in 2017, and his management team rejects investor requests to meet in Warsaw, instead asking them to visit the company’s headquarters about 310 kilometers (193 miles) from the capital.But his business, food retailer Dino Polska SA, is generating plenty of interest. The stock has rallied a record 88% this year, among the biggest gainers of the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, while many traditional retailers struggle from the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. For Dino, which focuses on rural areas, the lockdown to halt the spread of Covid-19 pushed up sales even more.“Dino investors seem unmoved by the fact that they can’t meet the company’s founder,” Wood & Co. analyst Lukasz Wachelko said by phone. “Some of them haven’t even seen a Dino store at all, but the way the company managed through pandemic gives the owner additional credibility.”It has lifted Biernacki’s fortune to $3.6 billion, closing the gap with Poland’s richest person, synthetic-rubber mogul Michal Solowow, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index.Biernacki is known for his frugality, rejecting appeals for additional staff or spending. His official biographies on the firm’s website and prospectus don’t provide any information about his education or activities before he founded Dino more than two decades ago -- years after the collapse of communism gave entrepreneurs the first opportunity to benefit from the country’s economic transformation.Biernacki turned down a requests to comment for this story in accordance with the company’s information policy, said Grzegorz Urazinski, Dino’s head of investor relations.Dino, founded in 1999, was on a winning streak even before Covid-19 accelerated its growth.Annual profit has more than tripled since 2015 and its store network has grown 12-fold in less than a decade. When the pandemic triggered a lockdown, shoppers flocked to its outlets to stockpile items including canned food, shelf-stable milk, soap and basic cosmetics. The company, which doesn’t offer online-delivery services, said this month it may be able to increase margins as it expands further in Poland.A slower pace of new store openings is the biggest risk for Dino’s valuation, but for now investors are enjoying the fast growth and are willing to pay a premium for the shares, said Piotr Bogusz, an analyst at MBank SA. Dino trades at 36 times earnings estimated for the next year, compared with about 20 times for peers Jeronimo Martins SGPS SA and Eurocash SA, data compiled by Bloomberg show.Biernacki opened his first store in Gostyn, a town in western Poland, and soon realized that he could get ahead with neighborhood locations rather than competing with the giants in the bigger cities. After he bought a meat-processing plant in 2003, Dino became a magnet for clients seeking fresh products.When Poland’s oldest private equity fund, Enterprise Investors, acquired a 49% stake in 2010, the retailer expanded further and invested in new logistics centers. Its local supermarkets provided all the necessary goods and was soon an alternative to large hypermarkets. Dino’s red-and-green logo became ubiquitous in western Poland, and the company gradually entered other regions.Enterprise Investors sold its holding via an initial public offering seven years later, just as Polish retailers were getting a boost from new state subsidies for families. For investors, Dino was the perfect proxy for the nation’s booming consumer-staples market. Jeronimo Martins, which operates the country’s biggest supermarket chain, had exposure to then-ailing Portugal and Colombia, while food wholesaler Eurocash was dealing with structural problems at the smaller, independent stores it supplied.Since its 2017 debut, Dino shares have risen almost eightfold, taking the company’s market value to $7 billion. As of Sept. 30, the retailer had 1,371 stores, up from 775 at the end of 2017, and owns the land where they’re located.“The company is exploiting a niche of less-urbanized areas where the competition is much lower and the customer base is a beneficiary of increasing disposable income supported by minimum wage growth and social-stimulus programs,” said Krzysztof Kawa, an analyst at Ipopema Securities SA.He predicts the number of stores could triple in the long term. “Dino is constantly pushing the boundaries.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/reclusive-billionaire-thrives-as-pandemic-shoppers-crowd-stores/story-Fm3gKA6fgRWeIeQY9kUeoL.html
18-11-2020||World||US hits Iran with new sanctions as Pompeo defends strategy||The United States hit Iran with new sanctions on Wednesday, as Secretary of State Mike Pompeo made the case that undoing the actions of the Trump administration would be foolish and dangerous.The Treasury and State departments announced they had targeted a leading Iranian charity and numerous of its affiliates for human rights violations. At the same time, Pompeo released a statement titled “The Importance of Sanctions on Iran,” which argued that the Trump administration’s moves against Iran made the world safer and should not be reversed.The sanctions announced Wednesday target Iran’s Mostazafan Foundation and roughly 160 of its subsidiaries, which are alleged to provide material support to Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei for malign activities, including the suppression of dissent.“While (it) is ostensibly a charitable organization charged with providing benefits to the poor and oppressed, its holdings are expropriated from the Iranian people and are used by the Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei to enrich his office, reward his political allies, and persecute the regime’s enemies,” Treasury said in a statement.Also targeted was Iran’s Intelligence Minister Mahmoud Alavi, who it said “played a central role in the Iranian regime’s human rights abuses against Iranian citizens.” Many of the sanctions supplement previously announced penalties by simply adding another layer to them. But they come as the administration seeks to ramp up pressure on Iran before President-elect Joe Biden takes office. Biden has said he wants to return to the rapprochement with Iran that started in the Obama administration but was ended by outgoing President Donald Trump.In an apparent nod to the incoming Biden administration’s stated plans to rejoin or renegotiated the 2015 Iran nuclear deal that Trump withdrew from, Pompeo said sanctions imposed against Iran had been “extraordinarily effective” in reducing the threat from the country. He said they had slashed Iran’s revenue by hundreds of billions of dollars since the pullout in 2018.“Sanctions are part of the pressures creating a new Middle East, bringing together countries that suffer the consequences of Iran’s violence and seek a region more peaceful and stable than before,” he said in a statement. “Reducing that pressure is a dangerous choice, bound to weaken new partnerships for peace in the region and strengthen only the Islamic Republic.” Pompeo said that in its remaining time, the Trump administration would continue to impose sanctions on Iran as well as on foreign governments and companies that violate them.“Throughout the coming weeks and months, we will impose new sanctions on Iran, including using our nuclear, counterterrorism, and human rights authorities, each reflecting the wide range of malign behavior that continues to emanate from the Iranian regime,” he said. “These sanctions are a critical tool of national security to preserve the safety of the region and to protect American lives.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-hits-iran-with-new-sanctions-as-pompeo-defends-strategy/story-ZYi4XP5BGYgSNVWUcpP7AO.html
18-11-2020||World||Iran says to meet nuclear commitments if Biden lifts sanctions||Iran will “automatically” return to its nuclear commitments if US President-elect Joe Biden lifts sanctions imposed in the past two years, its foreign minister said Wednesday.Tehran again meeting its commitments “can be done automatically and needs no conditions or even negotiations,” Mohammad Javad Zarif said in comments published in the state-run Iran daily.President Hassan Rouhani meanwhile called President Donald Trump’s administration “unruly”, and said a Biden administration could “bring back the atmosphere” that prevailed when the landmark nuclear deal was struck in 2015.Decades old US-Iranian tensions escalated after Trump unilaterally withdrew from the agreement in 2018 and reimposed, then toughened, crippling sanctions that have hammered Iran’s economy.While Trump has sought to maximise pressure on Iran and isolate it globally, Biden has proposed to offer the Islamic republic a “credible path back to diplomacy”.Zarif argued that “America is obligated to implement Resolution 2231 as a member of the United Nations and its Security Council,” pointing to the UNSC resolution that enshrined the 2015 nuclear deal.“If it does carry out this resolution and sanctions are lifted and there are no obstacles to Iran’s economic activities, then Iran will carry out” its obligations under the deal, he said.The accord offered Tehran relief from international sanctions in exchange for guarantees, verified by the United Nations, that its nuclear programme has no military aims. - ‘Lift the sanctions’ -Iran, which denies it is seeking to build a nuclear bomb, has since May 2019 gradually suspended most of its key obligations under the agreement, including limits to the production and stockpiling of low-enriched uranium.The UN’s International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) said Wednesday Iran had begun operating advanced centrifuges at an underground section of its primary nuclear enrichment facility at Natanz.Under its deal with world powers, it is only meant to enrich uranium with a less sophisticated variety of centrifuges.In its report last week the IAEA said that Iran’s stockpile of enriched uranium now stood at over 12 times the limit in the 2015 accord.The New York Times reported Monday that Trump had last week asked top aides about the possibility of striking Iran’s nuclear facilities.Senior officials reportedly “dissuaded the president from moving ahead with a military strike,” warning him that such an attack could escalate into a broader conflict in the last weeks of his presidency.Iran argues it has moved away from its commitments because of the sanctions and the inability of the other parties -- Britain, China, France, Germany and Russia -- to provide it with the deal’s promised economic benefits.Zarif described Biden as a “foreign affairs veteran” whom he has known for 30 years. Once in the White House, Biden could “lift all of these (sanctions) with three executive orders,” Zarif argued.If Biden’s administration does so, Iran’s return to nuclear commitments will be “quick”, the minister added.Washington’s return to the deal, however, could wait, Zarif added.“The next stage that will need negotiating is America’s return... which is not a priority,” he said, adding that “the first priority is America ending its law-breaking”.amh/mj/fzTHE NEW YORK TIMES COMPANY||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-says-to-meet-nuclear-commitments-if-biden-lifts-sanctions/story-ffgoyQaRijCQC6RIuYBaoI.html
18-11-2020||World||Judge orders US to stop expelling children who cross border||A federal judge on Wednesday ordered the Trump administration to stop expelling immigrant children who cross the southern border alone, halting a policy that has resulted in thousands of rapid deportations of minors during the coronavirus pandemic.U.S. District Judge Emmet Sullivan issued a preliminary injunction sought by legal groups suing on behalf of children whom the government sought to expel before they could request asylum or other protections under federal law.The Trump administration has expelled at least 8,800 unaccompanied children since March, when it issued an emergency declaration citing the coronavirus as grounds for barring most people crossing the border from remaining in the United States.Border agents have forced many people to return to Mexico right away, while detaining others in holding facilities or hotels, sometimes for days or weeks. Meanwhile, government-funded facilities meant to hold children while they are placed with sponsors have thousands of unused beds.Sullivan’s order bars only the expulsion of children who cross the border unaccompanied by a parent. The government has expelled more than 147,000 people since March, including adults, and parents and children traveling together.The Justice Department did not immediately say whether it would appeal. It has appealed another federal judge’s order barring the use of hotels to detain children.The Trump administration has argued in court that it must expel children who have recently crossed the border — whether they had authorization or not — to prevent the infection of border agents and others in immigration custody. The emergency declaration was made by Dr. Robert Redfield, director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and the Justice Department on Oct. 2 cited the judgment of “the nation’s top public health official” in urging Sullivan not to stop the expulsion of children.The Associated Press reported on Oct. 3 that top CDC officials resisted issuing the declaration because it lacked a public health basis, but that Vice President Mike Pence ordered Redfield to move forward anyway.Opponents of the policy accuse the administration of using the pandemic as a pretext to restrict immigration and say agents can safely screen minors for COVID-19 without denying protections under federal anti-trafficking law and a court settlement that governs the treatment of children.U.S. Magistrate Judge G. Michael Harvey recommended on Sept. 25 that Sullivan grant an injunction barring expulsions of children, saying the government was claiming power that was “breathtakingly broad.”Children and parents who have been expelled have reported believing they would be allowed to reunite with family in the U.S., only to instead be deported to their countries of origin.One mother of 12- and 9-year-olds found out her children had been expelled when she received a call from an official in Honduras asking her to send a relative to collect them.The father of a 1-year-old girl alleged that agents told him and his wife to feed the girl ice in case their temperatures were checked before boarding a flight. U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement has denied using ice as an artificial cooling measure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/judge-orders-us-to-stop-expelling-children-who-cross-border/story-nNxGG8P76QXpW6kxYjceyJ.html
18-11-2020||World||EU Commission recommends wide use of rapid Covid-19 tests||The European Union’s executive arm asked member nations on Wednesday to generalise the use of rapid antigen tests as winter approaches and Europe struggles to contain a second wave of coronavirus infections.Antigen tests are less reliable than the standard PCR coronavirus tests, but they cost less and help track-and-tracing efforts due to producing results more quickly.Also Read: As transition period nears end, where do UK, EU currently stand on Brexit talks?In its non-binding recommendation, the European Commission encouraged the 27 EU countries to use a common set of Covid-19 tests, a move aimed at slowing infections while facilitating cross-border travel during the pandemic. The hard-hit aviation industry has been pushing for the implementation of rapid tests for air passengers to reduce the need for post-arrival quarantines and to give airlines a boost.“To slow down the spread of coronavirus, we need to scale up testing,” European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said.The commission said it is allocating 100 million euros ($119 million) to purchase rapid antigen tests and to deliver them to EU member states. In addition, it plans to allocate 35.5 million euros ($42 million) to the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies for staff training and equipping the humanitarian network’s testing teams.Also Read: Brexit creates jobs for customs staff in Eastern Europe, IndiaThe European Commission said rapid tests should be used in situations where fast detection is needed to manage an outbreak or for the regular surveillance of high-risk groups and locations, such as medical personnel and in care homes. The commission also recommended the use of the tests for the purpose of triaging patients at healthcare facilities.When PCR tests are not sufficiently available in areas where the proportion of positive cases is greater or equal to 10%, the rapid tests should be used to test people with Covid-19 symptoms, the commission said. They also could be used in locations with a lower proportion of positive cases as part of contact-tracing strategies, it said..EU leaders are expected to discuss the recommendations during a Thursday evening video conference.More than 275,590 virus-related deaths have been reported in Europe since the start of the pandemic, according to the latest figures from the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-commission-recommends-wide-use-of-rapid-covid-19-tests/story-7j4aV9XTNhv6uF3gQvZcON.html
18-11-2020||World||US ends Boeing flight ban: What are the conditions for 737 MAX to return to skies?||Boeing Co on Wednesday won the approval of the US Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), which was required to resume its 737 MAX flights after two fatal disasters. Boeing was under fire after two 737 MAX aircraft crashed, claiming 346 lives, and was grounded all over the world due to safety concerns. The approval comes after FAA chief Steve Dickson’s two-hour evaluation flight of a Boeing 737 MAX, which was considered as an important milestone for the clearance. However, the approval doesn’t allow the Max aircraft to immediately return to the skies. Also read | Boeing confident in China with thousands of jet orders forecastConditions for Boeing 737 MAX to return to service:FAA has rescinded the order that grounded the aircraft and has published an Airworthiness Directive, which specifies design changes that must be made before the aircraft returns to service. The US regulator also detailed training changes that the aviation company must incorporate to resume commercial flights after a 20-month grounding.The FAA is required to approve 737 MAX pilot training program revisions for each US airline operating the MAX and the federal agency will retain its authority to issue airworthiness certificates. It will also retain its authority to issue export certificates of airworthiness for all new 737 MAX aircraft manufactured since the grounding order. The airlines with parked MAX aircraft must take required maintenance steps to prepare them for the skies.“Following the return to service, the FAA will continue to work closely with our foreign civil aviation partners to evaluate any potential additional enhancements for the aircraft,” the US agency said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-ends-boeing-flight-ban-what-are-the-conditions-for-737-max-to-return-to-skies/story-NaeshQwpzCekL0VYXZKGBL.html
18-11-2020||World||8 killed as roof collapses during wedding ceremony in Pakistan||A wedding ceremony in northwest Pakistan turned into a mournful occasion on Wednesday when the roof of a mud house where the function was being held collapsed, killing eight people and injuring 20 others.According to police, most of the victims included women and children who were inside the mud house when it collapsed during the ceremony in Parachinar headquarter of Kurram tribal district bordering Afghanistan.District Headquarter Hospital (DHQ) Parachinar’s Dr Qaisar Hussain confirmed that the facility received eight bodies, Geo TV reported. Hussain said at least 20 people received treatment for their injuries. Soon after the roof collapsed, people who were gathered outside of the house, together with other local people of the area, rushed to the site to help the victims. A local official said that roof could not bear burden of the people standing on it and as such caved in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/8-killed-as-roof-collapses-during-wedding-ceremony-in-northwest-pakistan/story-hiCKmIXhrDq8rYWBBo5qRP.html
18-11-2020||World||Taiwan shuts pro-China TV channel in battle over press freedom||Taiwan’s broadcast regulator has ordered the closure of one of the island’s most ardently pro-China cable news networks following a months long battle over journalistic standards and freedom of the press.The National Communications Commission(NCC) will not renew the broadcast license of Chung T’ien News, its chairman Chen Yaw-shyang said at a briefing in Taipei on Wednesday. The station had repeatedly violated broadcast regulations, including frequent failure to fact check news items and the network owner’s involvement in the editorial process, Chen said.“The key issue is its largest shareholder Tsai Eng-meng is directly and indirectly involved in the production of news programs,” Chen said. “We believe it’s unable to improve its poor operations by solving the structural problem of its shareholder’s involvement.”Tsai Eng-meng is Taiwan’s second-richest man with a fortune worth $5.6 billion, according to the Bloomberg Billionaire’s Index. The chairman of Shanghai-based rice cracker and beverage maker Want Want China Holdings, he has long been a vocal advocate of Taiwan’s unification with China.Chung T’ien News, among Taiwan’s most-watched cable news stations, is widely seen as the most vocal supporter of unification with China among the main TV news networks. It is often strongly critical of President Tsai Ing-wen, who views the island as a de facto independent nation.Chinese InfluenceWednesday’s announcement is the latest example of the often fraught relationship between press freedom and concerns over Chinese influence in Taiwan’s fiercely competitive media landscape.Taiwan is Asia’s second highest-ranking market after South Korea on Reporters Without Borders’ World Press Freedom Index. Since the NCC began its review process of Chung T’ien News, the network has claimed a failure to renew its broadcast license would be a politically backed attack.Chung T’ien called Wednesday’s ruling illegal in a statement and vowed to pursue legal action to protect their employees’ rights to work and freedom of the press.The NCC’s Chen insisted the station’s rejection was not politically motivated. Chung T’ien News was the subject of more than 960 public complaints to the regulator last year, accounting for about 30 per cent of all complaints about TV programming, he said.The station was at the center of concerns over Chinese attempts to sway Taiwan’s public opinion in the lead up to Taiwan’s election at the beginning of the year. It was the focus of a public protest last year when tens of thousands gathered outside the Presidential Office in June to voice their opposition to what they called “red media.”China’s Information War on Taiwan Ramps Up as Election NearsChung T’ien News, which employs 475 people, will be able to continue broadcasting until its current license expires on December 11.The NCC granted its affiliated general entertainment channel permission to continue broadcasting under the condition it increases how much it invests in Taiwan and raises the percentage of domestically produced programs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taiwan-shuts-pro-china-tv-channel-in-battle-over-press-freedom/story-3zeOn8hv49N6Kjp6ZQidWJ.html
18-11-2020||World||India’s confirmed dose purchases of Covid-19 vaccine exceed 1.5 billion: Report||India ranks third in terms of the number of Covid-19 vaccine doses the country is committed to procure, a Wall Street Journal report has said. The United States and the European Union (EU) are at the first and the second positions, respectively.As Covid-19 vaccines are getting ready...Purchase agreements are being tied up too...Chart courtesy @WSJ pic.twitter.com/aGgJNmRLurThe report is based on Duke University’s Launch and Scale Speedometer initiative, which studies factors that hinder the delivery of health innovations to lower-income countries. According to the Launch and Scale Speedometer initiative, India ranks third in terms of ‘COVID-19 Vaccine Advance Market Commitments by Country’ with the United States and the European Union ahead of it.India’s confirmed dose purchases exceed 1.5 billion which is more than European Union’s 1.2 billion doses and the United States 1 billion doses. But the US and the EU rank ahead because of their potential dose purchases. The United States has signed up for more than 1.5 billion potential dose purchases. The EU has also signed up for more than 760 million potential dose purchases.With over 1.5 billion potential dose purchases and 1 billion confirmed dose purchases, the US alone has signed up for more than 2.6 billion doses, which indicates it could inoculate its entire population more than once.India is already prioritizing identifying people who would receive the coronavirus vaccine before others. The National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration is working on a time-bound process to inoculate maximum numbers of people once a fully effective vaccine is released.US drugmaker Pfizer Inc and German partner BioNTech SE in its recently released final analysis of clinical-trial data showed that the efficacy of its coronavirus vaccine candidate is 95%.Researchers at Duke University’s Launch and Scale Speedometer initiative say that the numbers show that more than 8 billion doses of Covid-19 vaccine are currently reserved due to advance market commitments before any clear outcome of the effectiveness of any of the vaccine candidates is yet to be released. Researchers also fear that these advanced deals and deals being made to expand the current deals by high-income countries as well as middle-income countries creates a challenge for equal global distribution of coronavirus vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-s-confirmed-dose-purchases-of-covid-19-vaccine-exceed-1-5-billion-report/story-d044gZcQQh7yTVVXhPbVrM.html
18-11-2020||World||‘Whoever started the trouble should end it,’ says China amid worsening ties with Australia||China on Wednesday called on Australia to take action to stem worsening relations between the two countries, in the latest indication that Beijing will offer few if any compromises to resolve their disputes.Foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian’s comments came the same day that China’s embassy in Canberra delivered a list of 14 areas of disagreement between the sides in which China expects Australia to change direction, Australian media reported.Zhao made it clear China holds Australia responsible for the deterioration in ties, saying that “whoever started the trouble should end it.”“I want to stress that the Australian side is completely aware of the crux of the decline of the bilateral relations,” Zhao told reporters at a daily briefing. “We hope the Australian side should do more to improve the mutual trust and cooperation and enhance the comprehensive strategic partnership between the two countries.”Relations have been strained in recent years amid Chinese anger over a range of issues, including Australia’s crackdown on perceived political interference by Beijing, Chinese investments and a call for an independent investigation into the origins of the coronavirus pandemic that was first detected in China late last year.China has retaliated mainly by barring Australian exports including barley, wine, and coal, throwing billions of dollars of trade into question.In a move likely to further irk Beijing, the leaders of Australia and China’s historic rival Japan reached a basic agreement Tuesday on a bilateral defence pact that would allow their troops to work more closely, part of a push to bolster their ties and counter China’s growing assertiveness in the Asia-Pacific region.In a joint statement, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison and his Japanese counterpart, Yoshihide Suga, expressed “serious concerns about the situation” in the South and East China Seas and “strong opposition” to militarizing disputed islands and other unilateral attempts to change the status quo, without identifying China — signalling their sensitivity toward their biggest trading partner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/whoever-started-the-trouble-should-end-it-says-china-amid-worsening-ties-with-australia/story-jntmthsnSSsUtwv7aXwGoM.html
18-11-2020||World||Covid-19 vaccine: 5 things to know about Pfizer’s encouraging trial results||Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE on Wednesday announced that the final efficacy analysis of its vaccine candidate, BNT162b2, undergoing Phase 3 trial met all of the study’s primary efficacy endpoints. The biotech firms said that the study indicated a vaccine efficacy rate of 95 per cent, close to the efficacy rate found in early trial results of Moderna’s vaccine candidate. The Phase 3 trial of Pfizer’s vaccine candidate began on July 27 and as of November 13, as many as 41,135 volunteers have received its second dose. Pfizer CEO Albert Bourla said in a statement that the study results mark an important step in this journey to bring forward a vaccine capable of helping to end the pandemic.“With hundreds of thousands of people around the globe infected every day, we urgently need to get a safe and effective vaccine to the world,” he added.Also read | Pfizer, BioNTech plan filing for authorisation as Covid-19 vaccine proves 95% effectiveKey takeaways from Pfizer’s announcement:Efficacy: As per the final analysis, the efficacy has remained consistent across age, gender, race and ethnicity demographics. The observed efficacy in individuals over the age of 65 years was over 94 per cent.Safety: The Data Monitoring Committee for the study has not reported any serious safety concerns related to the vaccine. The firms highlighted that the trial results have achieved the safety data milestone required by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) and they plan to submit a request for authorisation within days.Also read | Where are we in the Covid-19 vaccine race?Storage: Pfizer’s vaccine candidate needs ultra-cold storage at around minus 75°C and can be kept in the fridge for five days. The companies have reportedly developed temperature-controlled thermal shippers that utilise dry ice to maintain temperature conditions of -60°C to -80°C. Such shippers can be used be as temporary storage units for 15 days by refilling with dry ice. Production: The companies expect to produce up to 50 million vaccine doses globally in 2020 and up to 1.3 billion doses by the end of 2021. Technology: BNT162b2 is an mRNA-based Covid-19 vaccine candidate, the same technology used by Moderna to come up with its mRNA-1273 vaccine candidate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-vaccine-here-are-some-key-takeaways-from-pfizer-s-encouraging-result/story-5M8e4V6TdpTiIDUbOrqXxL.html
18-11-2020||World||German police clash with protesters angry at Angela Merkel’s Covid-19 plans||German police unleashed water cannon on Wednesday in an effort to scatter thousands of protesters angry over plans to empower Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government to enforce restrictions to curb the spread of the coronavirus.Protesters near Berlin’s landmark Brandenburg Gate threw bottles at police and set off smoke bombs, witnesses reported. Riot police detained some protesters while firing volleys of water and urging crowds by loudspeaker to disperse.Also Read: Angela Merkel sees German recovery accelerating once coronavirus is tamedDemonstrators were fuming about legislation due to be passed by parliament that could allow the federal government to impose curbs on social contact, rules on mask-wearing, drinking alcohol in public, shutting shops and stopping sports events.Although most Germans accept the latest “lockdown light” to tackle a second wave of the coronavirus, critics say the law gives the national government too much power and endangers citizens’ civil rights without the approval of parliament.Until now, only a few measures have been mandatory and most have been only enforceable at a state or local level. In addition, several restrictions have been overturned by courts. Protesters were neither keeping the required social distance nor wearing face masks. Some held banners with slogans such as “For Enlightenment. Peace and Freedom” and “Stop the corona pandemic lie”. Many people were waving the German flag. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD) has even compared the move to enhance the powers of Merkel’s government with the 1933 Enabling Act that paved the way to Hitler’s Nazi dictatorship.German media reported that far-right radicals were among the protesters who had earlier gathered peacefully, banging saucepans and blowing whistles. Police were keen to avoid a repeat of an incident in August when, during mass marches against coronavirus curbs, protesters stormed the steps of the Reichstag parliament building, some of them waving the far-right Reichsflagge flag.The images went around the world and were condemned by leading German politicians.Germany, Europe’s largest economy, was widely praised for keeping infection and death rates below those of many of its neighbours in the first phase of the crisis. But is now in the throes of a second wave, like much of the rest of Europe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/german-police-clash-with-protesters-angry-at-merkel-s-coronavirus-plans/story-RoZO4MUO1SVtpPxi6OWUwK.html
18-11-2020||World||Taliban welcome US troop drawdown from Afghanistan as ‘good step’||The Taliban on Wednesday welcomed the Pentagon’s announcement it would soon pull about 2,000 US troops from Afghanistan as a “good step” that will help end the war.“It is a good step and in the interest of the people of both countries,” Zabihullah Mujahid, a spokesman for the Taliban, told AFP. The Pentagon announced Tuesday that the US will slash troop levels in Afghanistan and Iraq to their lowest levels in nearly 20 years of war after President Donald Trump pledged to end conflicts abroad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-welcome-us-troop-drawdown-from-afghanistan-as-good-step/story-50K5FsYCcLsRYlUoDnG1NN.html
18-11-2020||World||As transition period nears end, where do UK, EU currently stand on Brexit talks?||Britain and the European Union has not been able to arrive at a post-Brexit agreement and the crunch times is fast approaching for the UK’s final departure from the bloc. The UK exited the EU on January 31 but it has been following bloc’s rules during the ongoing transition period of 11 months. The two sides haven’t been able to resolve the differences over access to fishing waters and state aid to failing companies.What are the sticking points?The 27-member bloc has been demanding access to UK fishing waters but the British government has called it incompatible with Britain’s future status as an independent coastal state. The EU has also expressed displeasure over the internal market bill published by the British government in September. On the other hand, the UK government tabled the controversial bill, calling it an “insurance policy” for no-deal Brexit.Impact of no-deal BrexitIn case of a no-deal Brexit, the UK will not be able to avail the benefit of EU’s single market and customs union, leaving it with no choice but to trade with the bloc on terms similar to non-European markets. Britain will face tariffs and border checks on its exports to the EU and in response, the UK could also impose tariffs on imports from the trading bloc, resulting into increased price of imported goods.Also Read | Brexit creates jobs for customs staff in Eastern Europe, IndiaOn Monday, trade talks began in Brussels but sticking points of the deal remain in place. Before the latest round of negotiations kicked off, Britain’s chief negotiator David Frost stressed that the government is working to get a deal, but stressed that the deal should be compatible with UK’s sovereignty. He added that the deal should let the UK take back control of its laws, trade, and waters. “That has been our consistent position from the start and I will not be changing it,” he tweeted.Frost hinted at some progress in a “positive direction”, adding that both sides largely have common draft treaty texts even though there has not been an agreement on significant elements. He reiterated that people and businesses must prepare for the change that will be introduced on December 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/where-do-uk-eu-currently-stand-on-brexit-talks-as-transition-period-nears-end/story-j7VebS9z8374QzXv8Mn2pK.html
18-11-2020||World||Where are we in the Covid-19 vaccine race?||US drugmaker Pfizer Inc and German partner BioNTech SE released final late-stage trial data on Wednesday that showed their shot was 95% effective at stopping Covid-19, the highest efficacy rate so far.The companies are the first to publish final Phase III efficacy and safety data and plan to apply for an emergency use authorization (EUA) in the United States within days.Drugmakers and research centers around the world are working on Covid-19 vaccines, with large global trials of several of the candidates involving tens of thousands of participants well underway. Here is everything you need to know about the race to deliver vaccines to help end the coronavirus pandemic that has claimed more than 1.34 million lives worldwide:Other than Pfizer, which companies are in the vaccine race? On Monday, US pharmaceutical company, Moderna Inc, released interim data showing that its vaccine worked in a large, late-stage clinical trial with a 94.5% efficacy rate.Interim late-stage trial results for Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine published on Nov. 11 showed the shot is 92% effective.The next data release will likely be from AstraZeneca Plc with the University of Oxford in November or December. Johnson & Johnson says it is on track to deliver data this year. Read more | US aims to immunise 20 million in December, WHO says trust in vaccines vitalWhat happens in these trials? The companies are testing their vaccines against a placebo - typically saline solution - in healthy volunteers to see if the rate of Covid-19 infection among those who got the vaccine is significantly lower than in those who received the dummy shot. What were pharma companies waiting for to release data?The trials rely on subjects becoming naturally infected with the coronavirus, so how long it takes to generate results largely depends on how pervasive the virus is where trials are being conducted. Each drugmaker has targeted a specific number of infections to trigger a first analysis of their data. Early in the trials, infection rates were low. With a surge in infections around the globe in October and November, trial participants became infected more quickly.How well are the vaccines supposed to work?The World Health Organization ideally wants to see at least 70% efficacy in trials. The US Food and Drug Administration wants at least 50% - which means there must be at least twice as many infections among volunteers who received a placebo as among those in the vaccine group. The European Medicines Agency has said it may accept a lower efficacy level. Read more | US approves first self-testing kit for detecting Covid-19When will regulators rule on safety and efficacy?Pfizer/BioNTech plan to submit an EUA application in US within days. Moderna aims to file an application in the coming weeks once it has the two months of safety data on half the trial participants, as required by the US Food and Drug Administration. That should happen in the second half of November. That means an FDA decision is unlikely before December. Regulators for Europe, the United Kingdom and Canada are considering data as it becomes available. It is not clear when companies will submit efficacy data or when the agencies would make a decision.Could these be the first widely available coronavirus vaccines?Yes, although China launched an emergency use program in July aimed at essential workers and others at high risk of infection that has vaccinated hundreds of thousands of people. At least four Chinese vaccines are far along including those from China National Biotec Group (CNBG), CanSino Biologics and Sinovac Biotech.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/where-are-we-in-the-covid-19-vaccine-race/story-ZAS99gA8ZSBn0u2ljFhd0M.html
18-11-2020||World||New Zealand Police introduce hijab to uniform, first officer to wear it feels ‘proud’||Constable Zeena Ali is New Zealand Police’s first member to wear a specially designed hijab introduced as part of the force’s uniform to encourage more Muslim women to join the ranks. Zeena, 30, was inspired to join the police to help her Muslim community after the Christchurch terror attack last year in which 51 people were killed at two mosques in New Zealand. This week she will not only graduate as a police officer, but will become the first in New Zealand to don a police-issued hijab as part of her uniform, the New Zealand Herald reported. Zeena has worked with police to design a garment that is both functional for her new role and considerate of her religion, it said. “It feels great to be able to go out and show the New Zealand Police uniform hijab because I was able to take part in the design process,” she said, adding that she was “proud” to represent her community - particularly women. Zeena believes that the move will encourage other women to apply to the force as well. “Having a police-branded hijab means women, who may not have previously considered policing, can do so now. It’s great how the police incorporated my religion and culture,” she said. Born in Fiji, Zeena moved to New Zealand with her family when she was a child. She appreciated police for considering her personal needs - both at the Police College and in her role going forward. “At college they had a prayer room and halal meals. When I had to go swimming, they were ok with me wearing long sleeves,” Zeena said.Read more | Thailand approves legislation to pave way to legalize abortions “We need more Muslim women to help in the community, most of them are too scared to talk to the police and would probably shut the front door if a man turned up to talk to them. If we have more women turning up, a more diverse front line, then we can reduce more crime,” she said. Valuing diversity is one of the six core values for New Zealand Police - alongside professionalism, respect, integrity, empathy and commitment to Māori and the Treaty of Waitangi, the report said. “We recognise the value different perspectives and experiences bring to making us better at what we do,” New Zealand Police said. “We need people with a range of skills, backgrounds and experience levels - diversity is essential so that we can effectively serve the needs of New Zealand’s communities now and in the future,” it said.In 2008, New Zealand Police introduced a turban into the uniform, and Nelson Constable Jagmohan Malhi became the first officer to wear it on duty. Until then he had to forgo the turban on duty, despite it being an important part of his Sikh faith. In the UK, the Metropolitan Police in London approved a uniform hijab in 2006 with Police Scotland following in 2016. In Australia, Maha Sukkar of Victoria Police wore a hijab in 2004, BBC said in a report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-zealand-police-introduce-hijab-to-uniform-first-officer-to-wear-it-feels-proud/story-Hbu6pO2Xu6JfPNbFXXXNzM.html
18-11-2020||World||Pfizer, BioNTech plan filing for authorisation as Covid-19 vaccine proves 95% effective||Pfizer Inc. said a final analysis of clinical-trial data showed its Covid-19 vaccine was 95% effective, paving the way for the company to apply for the first US regulatory authorization for a coronavirus shot within days.The US drugmaker and partner BioNTech SE said their vaccine protected people of all ages and ethnicities, with no significant safety problems so far in a trial that includes almost 44,000 participants.Also Read: Chinese Covid-19 vaccine also found safe, induces immune responsePfizer shares rose 2.7% in premarket trading, with BioNTech American depositary receipts up 7.3%. European stocks extended their gains after the news, with the Stoxx Europe 600 up 0.4%The update is the latest in a string of promising developments on the vaccine front in recent days. Moderna Inc.’s rival jab appears equally effective, judging from data published earlier this week, and a third contender, from AstraZeneca Plc and the University of Oxford, is expected to release trial results in coming days.The Pfizer-BioNTech data shows 170 trial participants contracted Covid-19 overall. Eight participants who got the vaccine fell ill, while 162 cases were seen among those who got the placebo. The shot helped to prevent severe disease, according to the analysis, with nine of 10 severe cases in the trial occurring in the placebo group.The vaccine’s efficacy in people older than 65 was more than 94%, the companies said.Also Read: Frontline workers, elderly likely on govt’s priority list for Covid-19 vaccine administrationMost people who received the shot tolerated it well. Severe fatigue was seen in 3.7% of volunteers after the second dose in the two-shot regimen, but that was the only severe side effect that occurred in more than 2% of people, according to the analysis.Market rallyPfizer and BioNTech said last week that an initial readout showed the vaccine was more than 90% effective. The news helped spark a broad stock-market rally on hopes that the shot could help control a pandemic that has killed more than 1.3 million people worldwide.On Monday, Moderna released its own promising results and said it expects to be able to apply for emergency authorization in the US within weeks.Pfizer and BioNTech plan to seek US emergency authorization “within days,” according to the release. On Tuesday, Pfizer Chief Executive Officer Albert Bourla said at a conference that the companies had gathered the two-month safety follow-up data required by the US Food and Drug Administration.Both the Moderna and the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccines are based on messenger RNA, a new type of vaccine technology that is able to be deployed very quickly. It essentially transforms the body’s cells into tiny vaccine making machines. The vaccines instruct cells to make copies of the coronavirus spike protein, stimulating the production of protective antibodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pfizer-biontech-plan-filing-for-authorisation-as-covid-19-vaccine-proves-95-effective/story-pud0eCtsiQGmsPpewdqudN.html
18-11-2020||World||Brexit creates jobs for customs staff in Eastern Europe, India||UK companies are turning to cheaper overseas labor to complete their post-Brexit customs paperwork, creating jobs in countries such as Romania and India due to a shortage of trained staff in Britain.Anticipating a surge in demand for its services, Xpediator Plc, which handles freight flows for international companies, has been hiring workers in Romania. Dave Gladen, the firm’s group marketing manager, says the country has a deep pool of expertise in the EU’s customs rules because it only joined the bloc in 2007.“It’s allowed us to get some great expertise, and obviously there’s a lower cost,” Gladen said in a telephone interview. “Salaries for customs clearance representatives in the UK have just escalated crazily.”Britain’s logistics industry is having to find creative ways to be ready for a wave of bureaucracy that will hit on January 1, when commerce between the UK and its largest trading partner will be subject to new paperwork even if the two sides reach a free-trade agreement. Hundreds of millions of extra customs declarations will be required on goods crossing the border annually, at an estimated cost of 13 billion pounds ($17 billion).Metro Shipping Ltd., which moves goods for some of Britain’s largest retailers and automotive companies, has taken on 17 extra staff in Chennai, India in recent weeks specifically to handle Brexit-related work. The Birmingham, England-based firm expects it will have to handle an extra 120,000 customs declarations annually.Read More | UK’s ambitious 10-point plan for ‘Green Industrial Revolution’ to create, support 250,000 jobs“There’s nowhere near enough skill-set here to cover it,” said Grant Liddell, business development director at Metro, which stopped taking on new clients for Brexit in August because it was at capacity. “We have really geared up,” he said, noting he could hire six or seven staff in India for the price of one employee in the UK.For the government, a shortage of customs agents is one of the biggest threats that could disrupt trade with the EU after the end of the Brexit transition period. If companies don’t have the right paperwork, goods risk being held up at the border, potentially causing traffic chaos. Alternatively, businesses may decide not to trade with the EU at all if they cannot file the appropriate documents.Officials are trying to mitigate the problem by offering grants to businesses to train customs staff, though success has been limited: of the 84 million pounds made available, less than a third had been paid out as of October 16, according to the National Audit Office.The Road Haulage Association, a lobby group, has estimated that the UK needs an extra 50,000 customs agents to cope with the added Brexit workload. The government has repeatedly declined to put a figure on how many have been trained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brexit-creates-jobs-for-customs-staff-in-eastern-europe-india/story-9QLW5T6wQE4uzSWqgxYtPN.html
18-11-2020||World||WFP chief won’t pick up Peace Prize in Oslo, says Norwegian Nobel Institute||The World Food Programme (WFP) chief David Beasley won’t be able to pick up Nobel Peace Prize in Oslo due to the coronavirus pandemic, the Norwegian Nobel Institute reportedly said on Wednesday. WFP was awarded the 2020 Nobel Peace Prize for its efforts to combat hunger and improving the conditions of conflict-ridden areas.The institute is now considering the possibility of holding a digital award ceremony to present the WFP with the medal and diploma. Citing the current restrictions in Oslo, the Nobel Institute said that it would not be possible to carry out the ceremony “in a good and worthy manner”. The award ceremony is traditionally held in Oslo on December 10, the anniversary of the death of prize founder Alfred Nobel.Initially, Norway did well to contain the pandemic but the Scandinavian country has also been reporting an exponential rise in overall cases for the last two weeks. Norway has recorded over 30,000 total cases of coronavirus, and 298 related death so far. The ongoing coronavirus pandemic has also overwhelmed the frontline workers of the UN agency since the health crisis has spiralled into a humanitarian crisis.Also Read | Nobel UN food agency warns 2021 will be worse than 2020After the prize announcement, the United Nations food relief agency said that WFP’s recognition is a powerful reminder to the world that “peace and zero hunger go hand-in-hand.” The Rome-based United Nations’ food-assistance branch remains the world’s largest humanitarian organisation addressing hunger and promoting food security. The Norwegian Nobel Committee has highlighted WFP’s role in multilateral cooperation on making food security an instrument of peace. The committee had said in a statement that it wishes to turn the eyes of the world towards the millions of people who suffer from or face the threat of hunger. It listed WFP’s work in the past few years, including the assistance to close to 100 million people in 88 countries, in 2019, who are victims of acute food insecurity and hunger.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/wfp-chief-won-t-pick-up-peace-prize-in-oslo-says-norwegian-nobel-institute/story-BIafmqmkjXbsx1b8QpqjaJ.html
18-11-2020||World||UK’s ambitious 10-point plan for ‘Green Industrial Revolution’ to create, support 250,000 jobs||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson has announced a 10-point plan for a self-styled green industrial revolution, aimed at creating and supporting up to 250,000 jobs. According to 10 Downing Street, the blueprint for the ambitious plan will allow the UK to cut emissions and chalk out its own path for eradicating its contribution to climate change, especially after exiting from the European Union.The Prime Minister’s Office said that the plan will mobilise £12 billion of government investment for 250,000 highly-skilled green jobs in the UK. The industrial heartlands, including in the North East, Yorkshire and the Humber, West Midlands, Scotland and Wales, remain at the centre of the blueprint to drive forward the green industrial revolution, the government said.Also Read | UK announces ban on sale of petrol, diesel cars by 2030Johnson’s 10-points planOffshore wind: The plan is aimed at helping to produce enough offshore wind to power every home, quadrupling to 40GW by 2030.Hydrogen: To generate 5GW of low carbon hydrogen production capacity by 2030 for industry, transport, power and homes. It is also aimed at developing the first town heated entirely by hydrogen by the end of the decade.Nuclear: The government will promote nuclear energy as a clean energy source, and developing the next generation of small and advanced reactors.Electric vehicles: Backing the car manufacturing bases to accelerate the transition to electric vehicles, and transforming the UK’s national infrastructure to better support electric vehicles.Public transport, cycling and walking: Investing in zero-emission public transport of the future and planning to make cycling and walking more attractive ways to travel Jet Zero and greener maritime: The government plans to support difficult-to-decarbonise industries to become greener through research projects for zero-emission planes and ships.Homes and public buildings: The plan targets to install 600,000 heat pumps every year by 2028 and make homes, schools and hospitals greener and more energy-efficient.Carbon capture: Investing in technologies to capture and store harmful emissions away from the atmosphere, with a target to remove 10MT of carbon dioxide by 2030, which is equivalent to all emissions of the industrial Humber today.Nature: Planting 30,000 hectares of trees every year to protect and restore the natural environment.Innovation and finance: To develop the cutting-edge technologies needed to reach new energy ambitions and develop London into a global centre of green finance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-s-ambitious-10-point-plan-for-green-industrial-revolution-to-create-support-250-000-jobs/story-Fo3oPMtyiyGpYSaE0OY6WL.html
18-11-2020||World||Pakistani workers protest against China’s unequal wages for locals in CPEC project||Thousands of labourers on Wednesday staged a protest against China in Sindh’s Karachi complaining about unequal wages received by them as compared to their Chinese compatriots.Earlier, The News International reported that the Chinese staff recruited by the Punjab Mass Transit Authority for Orange Line Metro Train (OLMT) project was getting huge salaries in comparison to their Pakistani counterparts.The huge disparity in the salaries is impacting the morale of the Pakistani staff, who are also given a different grade system than the Chinese. Besides, even as the Chinese staff is being paid in Yuan, the locals are getting their salaries in Pakistani rupees (PKR).“On Wednesday, the value of 1 CNY against 1 PKR was equal to Rs 24.02. According to the data of the salaries of 93 Chinese working at the OLMT project, the Chinese staff is highly paid. If the salaries of Pakistani officials working on the same/equivalent seats are compared with those of Chinese staff, the Pakistan employees are getting mere peanuts. According to data, a Chinese-origin deputy chief executive officer/CFO/director with grade L2 is being paid 136,000 CNY per month which is equal to over Rs 3.26 million. There were three positions and all were filled with Chinese. No Pakistani was hired on this designation,” The News International stated.Giving another example of the disparity in salaries, The News International said while 12 people of Chinese origin working on the slot of train dispatcher/train crew are getting 57,000 CNY each, equal to Rs 1.36m, the locally recruited employees working on the OLMT project are getting much lower salaries.The Pakistani employees have demanded a salary hike from the government in accordance with the salary of their Chinese counterparts.Meanwhile, Beijing has put a hold on projects that are part of the USD 62 billion The China–Pakistan Economic Corridor(CPEC), a flagship project of China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), and the Covid-19 pandemic, ongoing political unrest, and foreign debt limits have resulted in a slowing of Chinese investments in Pakistan.According to sources, Pakistan in 2017 had decided to cut the salaries of contractual employees responsible for executing various projects in the CPEC. Pakistan’s finance ministry had refused to pay the employees as per the agreement.Meanwhile, the National Assembly Standing Committee on Planning and Development on Tuesday cleared the CPEC Authority Bill 2020 with majority despite members belonging to opposition parties strongly opposing the bill, reported The News International.Former minister for planning Ahsan Iqbal opposed the bill and presented seven reasons for opposition to the creation of the CPEC authority. However, after conducting a heated debate, the NA panel passed the CPEC authority bill with a majority.“Creation of CPEC authority is superfluous and unnecessary,” he said. “Ministry of planning has discharged the role diligently and effectively in the past.”The national debt of USD 80 billion on account CPEC is bound to pose a danger to the sovereignty of Pakistan in coming years; as has been the CCP methodology in numerous under-developed countries.The incidents clearly depict the Chinese Communist Party’s (CCP) core motive, which is using the CPEC project to turn Pakistan into a ‘Chinese colony’.As Imran Khan states China as an ‘all-weather’ friend, till then, the CCP will maintain a facade of Pakistan-China friendship whilst continuing to exploit Pakistan and market outdated items from its industries to Pakistan. Pakistan’s debt burden is also being pushed up by the CCP on every available opportunity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistani-workers-protest-against-china-s-unequal-wages-for-locals-in-cpec-funded-project/story-rl8B2TxkMNVymmD0zD9d2N.html
18-11-2020||World||Iran feeds uranium gas into advanced centrifuges underground: Report||Iran has fired up advanced uranium-enriching centrifuges that it had installed underground at its Natanz site, in the latest breach of its nuclear deal with major powers, a report by the UN atomic watchdog obtained by Reuters on Wednesday showed.Natanz is Iran’s main uranium-enrichment site and the one that US President Donald Trump recently asked for options on attacking, according to a source who confirmed a New York Times report.The deal states that Iran can only accumulate enriched uranium with first-generation IR-1 machines and that those are the only centrifuges it can operate at its underground plant at Natanz, apparently built to withstand aerial bombardment. Also Read: Al Qaeda is battered, but don’t rejoice yetAn International Atomic Energy Agency report last week showed Tehran had installed a cascade, an interlinked cluster, of advanced IR-2m machines underground at Natanz, having moved them from an above-ground plant where it was already enriching uranium with advanced centrifuges in breach of the deal.Last week’s report said it had not fed uranium hexafluoride (UF6) gas, the feedstock for centrifuges, into that cascade. “On 14 November 2020, the Agency verified that Iran began feeding UF6 into the recently installed cascade of 174 IR-2m centrifuges at the Fuel Enrichment Plant (FEP) in Natanz,” the IAEA report to member states dated Tuesday said.Also Read: US, Israel worked together to track and kill al-Qaida No. 2Iran has breached many restrictions imposed by the 2015 deal on its atomic activities, including on the purity to which it enriches uranium and its stock of enriched uranium. These breaches came in response to Trump’s withdrawal from the nuclear deal in 2018 and the reimposition of US sanctions against Tehran that had been lifted under the accord.Last week’s IAEA report said Iran had also begun installing a cascade of IR-4 centrifuges at the underground plant but not a planned third cascade of IR-6 machines. It is also operating 5,060 IR-1 machines at the underground plant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-feeds-uranium-gas-into-advanced-centrifuges-underground-report/story-3RKD9qzuMK6W9AuDKOnmlN.html
18-11-2020||World||‘Spent billions...’: Watchdog slams UK over secrecy in Covid-19 equipment contracts||The British government spent billions without proper transparency in a scramble to secure protective equipment early in the coronavirus outbreak, the country’s public watchdog said Wednesday.The National Audit Office said in a report that companies with links to politicians were fast-tracked and had more chances of getting a coronavirus contract than other applicants.Like many countries, the U.K. was caught without enough masks, gowns, gloves and other items to keep health care workers and the public safe as coronavirus cases skyrocketed.Also Read: British PM Boris Johnson self-isolates after Covid-19 contactIn the push to build up stocks, the government awarded 8,600 contracts worth 18 billion pounds ($24 billion) between March and July, most without a competitive tender process. Some came from a “high-priority lane” of firms referred by politicians, health professionals and government officials, which were considered more credible and processed more quickly than others.The auditor said in a sample of cases it studied, “departments failed to document key decisions, such as why they chose a particular supplier or used emergency procurement, and failed to document their consideration of risks, including how they had identified and managed any potential conflicts of interest.”It said in some cases documents to support decisions were missing, or contracts were awarded after the work had already been done. In more than half the cases, contracts had not been published by Nov. 10.Also Read: J&J starts two-dose trial of its Covid-19 vaccine candidate in the UKOpposition Labour Party lawmaker Meg Hillier, who heads Parliament’s Public Accounts Committee, said the government had “ripped up the rules and ridden roughshod over the taxpayer.”Business Secretary Alok Sharma defended the government, saying it had acted with urgency and under “huge pressure.”“We had to do an enormous amount of work very fast to secure PPE and that’s what we did, and I’m not going to apologize for the fact that quite rightly we made that effort,” he told the BBC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/spent-billions-watchdog-slams-uk-over-secrecy-in-covid-19-equipment-contracts/story-BGMEPm6VkBpwHPnyOtWYsM.html
18-11-2020||World||Thailand approves legislation to pave way to legalize abortions||Thailand’s cabinet has approved amending existing legislation to pave the way to legalizing abortion in the Southeast Asian nation. The change in law, agreed to by the cabinet came in on Tuesday and aims to allow women to seek and have abortions up to 12 weeks into their pregnancy. According to Rachada Dhanadirek, a government spokesperson, any attempts to curtail the termination of pregnancy within the 12 week time-frame would be deemed “an infringement of women’s rights.” How will the amendment in the law help? Rachada said, “The law amendment will support and protect women’s and their unborn children’s rights equally and remove women’s motivations to seek out illegal abortions, which are not safe.” The official statement issued by the government said that the cabinet found the existing laws to be a “restriction on women’s rights” and contradictory to the “the constitution which dictates people have freedom over their lives and bodies.” Read more | Thai Parliament to vote on constitution as protests turn violentWhat are Thailand’s existing laws with respect to abortions? Thailand’s existing laws do not allow terminations at all unless the woman’s life is at risk or the pregnancy is a result of rape. Currently, women seeking a termination can receive a prison sentence of up to three years and a 60,000 baht ($1,980) fine. Under the proposed amendment the punishment for abortions beyond the 12-week limit would also be lower -- up to six months in prison, or a 10,000 baht fine, or both, according to the statement.What will happen next? The proposed amendment has been submitted to parliament for consideration, and the government expects the changed law to come into effect by February 12 next year.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thailand-approves-legislation-to-pave-way-to-legalize-abortions/story-79E3vA8MGj5772SvsqKhhL.html
18-11-2020||World||CIA, FBI directors could be next on Trump firing line. Here’s why||US President Donald Trump on Tuesday fired a top cybersecurity official who had rejected his baseless claims of electoral fraud. Trump took to Twitter to announce that Chris Krebs has been “terminated” as the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (Cisa) chief for his “highly inaccurate” statement on the security of the elections. “The recent statement by Chris Krebs on the security of the 2020 Election was highly inaccurate, in that there were massive improprieties and fraud - including dead people voting,” claimed Trump, which was promptly flagged by the micro-blogging platform as “disputed”.The US president recently fired Mark Esper as Defense Secretary as the duo was at loggerheads over the issues of troops withdrawal from Afghanistan and deployment of the military during Black Lives Matter protests. Trump, through his actions, has made it clear that officials contradicting him on key issues will be shown the door.Also Read | Donald Trump fires US election security official who rejected fraud claimsUS media reports suggest that FBI director Christopher Wray could be the next on Trump’s firing line due to his testimony during congressional hearings on Russian interference and alleged electoral fraud. Wray had confirmed that Russia was using a range of measures to “primarily denigrate” Joe Biden and what it sees as an anti-Russia “establishment.” He also denied any evidence indicating widespread voter fraud, a claim regularly repeated by Trump ahead of the elections.Last month, the FBI Agents Association sent open letters to Trump and Biden, urging the next president to allow Wray to continue until his 10-year term ends in 2027. “This country needs stability in leadership of the Bureau during these challenging times, and creating upheavals at the Bureau after the elections can only undermine the goal of protecting the safety and security of our country,” the organisation wrote.According to a CNN report, Trump and his allies have become increasingly frustrated by CIA Director Gina Haspel for constantly pushing back on declassification of documents related to Russian interference in the 2016 presidential elections. Haspel was also reportedly not part of Trump’s in-person daily intelligence briefing on Friday, which was organised by the Director of National Intelligence, John Ratcliffe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/cia-fbi-directors-could-be-next-on-trump-firing-line-here-s-why/story-DFO0vw3zRrgyRIfS9OGYcM.html
18-11-2020||World||EU parliamentarians raise concern over violence against women in Pakistan||Several Members of European Parliament (MEP) raised concern regarding cases of violence against women in Pakistan following a brutal motorway rape case in Lahore in September.Several media outlets reported on the ‘motorway case’, where a woman was sexually assaulted in front of her children while waiting for assistance in her car on the highway in Lahore. The Lahore capital city police officer stoked controversy by victim-blaming the woman, causing an international outcry.On Monday, the Vice-President of the Commission and High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy (VP/HR), Josep Borrell highlighted that the EU Head of Delegation to Pakistan condemned the specific case raised by the Honourable Members publicly on September 13, 2020, said EU Chronicle in a press release.EU Chronicle stated in the release that on September 28, Members of the European Parliament Samira Rafaela, Karen Melchior, Abir Al-Sahlani, Radka Maxova, Sylvie Brunet, Irene Tolleret, Chrysoula Zacharopoulou, Hilde Vautmans, and Susana Solis Perez, all of the Renew Political Group, sent a parliamentary question to the VP/HR Josep Borrell.The Parliamentarians asked Borrell whether he condemned the cases of sexual violence that happened in September 2020 in Pakistan and about the concrete actions he will be planning to take to ensure that any current and future plans to engage with Pakistan are based on the promotion of women’s rights and the elimination of all forms of violence against women.Lastly, the Renew representatives inquired about the steps the Commission and the VP/HR “will take to make all funding programmes for Pakistan conditional on progress in women’s rights by making gender mainstreaming one of its funding objectives?”Read more | Abu Dhabi puts the squeeze on Imran Khan, Pakistanis in UAE feel the heatAccording to EU Chronicle, on November 16, Borrell officially responded on behalf of the European Commission.He stated that ‘human rights, including women’s rights, are raised regularly in the EU’s bilateral dialogue with Pakistan’ and he also reported that the most recent exchange took place at the 6th EU-Pakistan Political Dialogue on 6 October 2020.Borrell further elaborated that violence against women, including rape, was raised by the European Union in the Sub Group of Democracy, Governance, Rule of Law and Human Rights to the 10th EU-Pakistan Joint Commission on November 13-14, 2019, adding that measures taken to prevent violence against women will be followed up in the 11th EU-Pakistan Joint Commission.In his closing statements, Borrell stated that gender mainstreaming is integrated in the EU’s projects within Pakistan, including all rural development, education and government projects, and stated that ending violence against women and girls will remain high on the agenda in the next EU Gender Action Plan.The Lahore incident heightened calls for action to address sexual violence in the country. The brutal incident came after a five-year-old in Karachi was raped and then set ablaze.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-parliamentarians-raise-concern-over-violence-against-women-in-pakistan/story-7LHT0p7yquZQbLw5ReHMfN.html
18-11-2020||World||North American forum warns against China’s rise, wants India to become UNSC permanent member||North America’s leading strategic and security forum has issued a handbook for democracies aimed at understanding the challenges that China poses to them, and it recommends supporting the inclusion of India as the sixth permanent member of the UN Security Council, strengthening the Quad, and creating a global free-trade zone for democracies.The 101-page handbook, titled China vs. Democracy: The Greatest Game, is also a major topic for discussion at the 2020 edition of the three-day Halifax International Security Forum, which is headquartered in Halifax, Nova Scotia in Canada. The forum is traditionally hosted by Canada’s defence minister, in this case Harjit Sajjan. The handbook was based on feedback from nearly 250 global leaders.“The year 2020 witnessed a paradigm shift in the democratic world’s understanding of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP),” said the forum’s president Peter Van Praagh. “(President) Xi Jinping’s China is now the most powerful authoritarian state in history. HFX’s Handbook for Democracies gives policy makers, journalists, businesses, and members of the public a comprehensive guide to what we are up against.”Van Praagh expanded on this theme in the introduction to the handbook, as he noted that the forum had flagged the Chinese challenge for the past decade but it was not till this year “with the emergence of the coronavirus pandemic that began in Wuhan, China, and all the uncertainty that accompanied it, that people around the world began to understand the real threat - to our supply chains, to international organisations, to the open exchange of information, to the protection of confidential information, and to freedom of the seas and skies”.The handbook states that China is “intent on undermining democracy abroad”, including India, and focuses on the role that the Quad - formed in 2007 by the US, India, Japan, and Australia - can play in this regard. It says, “The Quad’s rebirth can be seen as one of the first concrete steps on the road to clarity about Beijing’s intentions and the need to check them.”It also underscores the need for India to get a higher profile on the global stage, including a seat on the UNSC. “India does not have the slightest interest in being a ‘balancing power’ for anybody apart from India. It may well be emerging as a crucial balancer against Chinese power, and this would be in the interests of the entire democratic world… India is looking after its own interests. Fortunately, India’s interests and the rest of the democratic world’s converge in many areas,” the handbook says.It adds that “the world’s democracies should push for India to become the sixth permanent member of the United Nations Security Council”.It also prescribed as a “long-term ambition” the creation of a “global free-trade zone for democracies”. With the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) and European Union’s single market as “natural building blocks”, this should be “extended to include the United Kingdom, India, Japan, South Korea, Australia and all other Indo-Pacific democracies, as well as democracies in Africa and Central and South America”.The 2020 edition of the forum, which begins on Friday, will feature a plenary of the topic China vs Democracy: The Greatest Game, and while its agenda includes the impact of the new US administration led by President-elect Joe Biden, it will also discuss topics such as Himalayan Heat: Sino-Indian Friction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-american-forum-warns-against-china-s-rise-wants-india-to-become-unsc-permanent-member/story-rvgjA6aFLKk5wZnX82Xc9I.html
18-11-2020||World||China detects coronavirus on more seafood imports from India||Coronavirus samples were detected on frozen pomfret packets exported from India to southern China, Chinese customs said on Wednesday, leading to the sealing of cold storage areas and nucleic acid testing for the local staff at the port.The latest detection comes a week after authorities suspended imports from an Indian company after the virus was found on three cuttlefish packages.Experts say that it isn’t unusual for frozen packages to have traces of the Sars-CoV-2 if handled by an infected person, though that would be an unlikely route to infect more people - it would depend on a complicated series of events.China, however, has said that earlier in November a worker in a refrigerated warehouse in Tianjin city near Beijing was infected with Covid-19 after handling pork imported from Germany.The packaging was initially imported from Bremen in Germany to Tianjin and from there to the city of Dezhou in Shandong province.On October 17, the Chinese Centre for Disease Control (CDC) had announced it had isolated active Sars-CoV-2 on packs of imported fish linking it to a recent outbreak in the city of Qingdao.Even if the links are unclear, the Chinese government has stepped up checks on frozen meat and seafood imports, testing hundreds of thousands of frozen packages for the virus.Official data available until September 15 say that a total of 2.98 million samples had been tested across the country’s 24 provincial-level regions by that date, including 670,000 taken from cold-chain food or food packagings, 1.24 million from working staff, and 1.07 million from the environment. Whenever the virus has been detected on frozen packages, China has suspended imports from that particular company for at least a week.It was during a similar check that local Chinese authorities reported two new cases of coronavirus-contaminated cold-chain imports on Wednesday, with two Indian frozen pomfret packages and one Russian frozen salmon packaging sample tested positive for the virus, General Administration of Customs of China said in a statement on Wednesday.The batch of Indian pomfret entered the country at Fuzhou port in eastern China’s Fujian province.A total of 2,500 packages were transported to a cold storage facility on Sunday. According to the Chinese CDC, 2,117 pieces are still in stock, and 383 pieces have been sold.“All related goods have been sealed up and have not entered the terminal market,” a state media report said.The report added that all involved cold storage workers, cold storage staff and related contacts have been put in centralised isolation and medical observation after nucleic acid testing.No details of the exporting Indian company were given in the statement. Also on Wednesday, Chinese customs announced that a nucleic acid test on one frozen salmon packaging sample imported from Russia came back positive.Last week, three frozen cuttlefish packages imported from a Kolkata-based company tested positive for the coronavirus.State media reports said that wasn’t the first time that frozen food imported from India was found to have the virus upon reaching China.Earlier this month, packages of frozen hairtail, a fish, tested positive in Taiyuan the capital of Shanxi province in north China.The coronavirus was also detected on imported seafood and meat packages from other countries, according to state media reports.“China earlier reported two cases of coronavirus-contaminated imported frozen products on Sunday, one in Sishui, East China’s Shandong province, and the other in Xi’an, Northwest China’s Shaanxi province, pushing the number of cold-chain virus contaminations to at least 10 provincial regions in the country since June,” the tabloid Global Times reported on Wednesday.Since June, more than 10 provinces and cities, including Beijing, Liaoning, Anhui, Fujian and Jiangxi, have discovered coronavirus-positive samples taken from imported frozen food or food packaging.China’s State Council issued guidelines on November 9 on cold-chain food disinfection regulating that imported frozen products must be traceable and go through closed-loop management throughout the entire process of export.Until Wednesday, nearly 3,700 imported Covid-19 cases had been reported on the mainland.The total number of confirmed Covid-19 cases stands at 86,369 while the death toll remained unchanged at 4,634.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-detects-coronavirus-on-more-seafood-imports-from-india/story-33VhqWGzZQ3tXaufG1DlJN.html
18-11-2020||World||Jaishankar and his Canadian counterpart discuss bilateral ties, cooperation on Covid-19 response||The foreign ministers of India and Canada underscored improving trade ties between the two nations and cooperation with regard to the Covid-19 pandemic as they participated in a Track 1.5 dialogue co-hosted by think tanks.S Jaishankar, India’s external affairs minister, addressed the virtual Canada-India Track 1.5 Dialogue: Bilateral Relations and Multilateral Initiatives in the Era of Covid-19 Recovery, hosted by Ontario-based Centre for International Governance Innovation (CIGI) and Gateway House: Indian Council on Global Relations.Jaishankar tweeted he was “delighted” to participate in the third edition of the dialogue along with his counterpart François-Philippe Champagne, Canada’s foreign minister. “Both of us expressed confidence in the further growth of our bilateral relationship. Underlined how closely India and Canada are cooperating in global affairs,” he said.In a complementary tweet, Champagne said, “We discussed our strong commercial and investment relationship, with record numbers in 2019 of more than $10bn in bilateral trade. We’ll continue to work together to bring it to its full potential.”The exchange of views came even as India joined the Canada-led Ministerial Coordination Group on Covid-19 earlier this month, with Champagne appreciating the “critical role” that India is playing with regard to the requirements globally for pharma products needed to combat the coronavirus disease.Also participating in the virtual meet on Wednesday were India’s high commissioner to Ottawam Ajay Bisaria, and his counterpart in New Delhi, Nadir Patel.Discussions at the dialogue included examining “bilateral relations between Canada and India and explore multilateral initiatives in the era of Covid-19 recovery” and “the new geo-economics of the Indo-Pacific region and digital cooperation between Canada and India”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/jaishankar-and-his-canadian-counterpart-discuss-bilateral-ties-cooperation-on-covid-19-response/story-fr4sEoIi44XnVgmzxvP6qN.html
18-11-2020||World||NATO chief warns of high price if troops leave Afghanistan||NATO could pay a heavy price for leaving Afghanistan too early, its chief warned Tuesday after a US official said President Donald Trump is expected to withdraw a significant number of American troops from the conflict-ravaged country in the coming weeks.NATO has fewer than 12,000 troops from dozens of nations in Afghanistan helping to train and advise the country’s national security forces. More than half are not US troops, but the 30-nation alliance relies heavily on the United States for transport, air support, logistics and other assistance. It’s unlikely that NATO could even wind down its operation without US help.“We now face a difficult decision. We have been in Afghanistan for almost 20 years, and no NATO ally wants to stay any longer than necessary. But at the same time, the price for leaving too soon or in an uncoordinated way could be very high,” NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said in a statement Tuesday.He said Afghanistan still “risks becoming once again a platform for international terrorists to plan and organize attacks on our homelands. And ISIS (Islamic State) could rebuild in Afghanistan the terror caliphate it lost in Syria and Iraq.”The US decision comes just days after Trump installed a new slate of loyalists in top Pentagon positions who share his frustration with the continued troop presence in war zones. The expected plans would cut US troop numbers almost in half by Jan. 15, leaving 2,500 troops in Afghanistan.US officials said military leaders were told over the weekend about the planned withdrawal and that an executive order is in the works but has not yet been delivered to commanders.NATO took charge of the international security effort in Afghanistan in 2003, two years after a U.S-led coalition ousted the Taliban for harboring former al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden. In 2014, it began to train and advise Afghan security forces, but has gradually pulled troops out in line with a US-brokered peace deal.Stoltenberg said that “even with further US reductions, NATO will continue its mission to train, advise and assist the Afghan security forces. We are also committed to funding them through 2024.”NATO’s security operation in Afghanistan is its biggest and most ambitious undertaking ever. It was launched after the military alliance activated its mutual defense clause — known as Article 5 — for the first time, mobilizing all the allies in support of the United States in the wake of the 9/11 attacks on New York and Washington.“Hundreds of thousands of troops from Europe and beyond have stood shoulder to shoulder with American troops in Afghanistan, and over 1,000 of them have paid the ultimate price,” Stoltenberg said.“We went into Afghanistan together. And when the time is right, we should leave together in a coordinated and orderly way. I count on all NATO allies to live up to this commitment, for our own security,” he said.The United States is by far NATO’s biggest and most influential ally. It spends more on defense than all the other countries combined. But Trump’s term in office has marked a particularly tumultuous time for the organization. He has routinely berated other leaders for not spending enough on defense, and has pulled out of security agreements that European allies and Canada consider important for their security, such as the Iran nuclear deal and the Open Skies aerial surveillance pact.French President Emmanuel Macron said last year that NATO was suffering from “brain death,” in part due to a lack of US leadership.Stoltenberg has refrained from publicly criticizing Trump or his decisions since Trump came to power in 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nato-chief-warns-of-high-price-if-troops-leave-afghanistan/story-JelqT2wYo6x2TJWtcnXnmM.html
18-11-2020||World||US government announces troop withdrawal from Afghanistan, Iraq||The US government on Tuesday announced that the number of American troops stationed in Afghanistan will be cut by half by mid-January, drawing criticism from both Republicans and Democrats who warned that it would be a “mistake” and could imperil peace efforts in the country. By January 15, five days before the inauguration of Joe Biden as the 46th president of the US, the number of American forces in Afghanistan will come down from the current level of 5,000 to 2,500. The number of soldiers in Iraq will also be reduced, from the existing 3,000 to 2,500.The Trump administration’s decision comes as part of the Republican president’s much debated pledge to bring America’s “endless wars” to an end.Citing US casualties in Afghanistan and Iraq - a total of 6,900 killed and 52,000 wounded - acting secretary of defence Christopher Miller told reporters at the department of defence, “I am formally announcing that we will implement President Trump’s orders to continue our repositioning of forces from those two countries.”Miller was not accompanied at the announcement by Mark Milley, the chairman of joint chiefs of staff, who had earlier dismissed reports about troop reductions as speculation. Miller also did not refer to his predecessor Mark Esper’s objection to the cuts as conveyed to the White House in a confidential memo.Robert O’Brien, the National Security Adviser, told reporters that Trump hoped “that they will all come home safely - and in their entirety” by May.That was an unusual projection to make as president-elect Biden would be in charge then and it would be his administration’s decision. There was no word from Biden or his team yet on the troop withdrawals.Criticism of the move came swiftly, and from both the parties. Even close Republican allies were outraged. “I think it’s extremely important here in the next couple of months not to have any earthshaking changes with regard to defence and foreign policy,” Mitch McConnell, the top Republican in the US Senate, told reporters. “I think a precipitous drawdown in either Afghanistan or Iraq would be a mistake.”Tammy Duckworth, a Democratic Senator who has served in Afghanistan and lost both her legs to combat wounds in Iraq, warned of adverse impact of the move on peace efforts. “We all want our troops to be brought home safely, but this announcement is a mistake. At a time when we are finally seeing serious peace negotiations between the Afghan government and the Taliban, Donald Trump is unilaterally taking one of our best bargaining chips off the table - and getting nothing in return.”Intra-Afghan peace talks started in September as part of a conditions-based agreement signed by the United States with the Taliban in February. But they are currently stalled due to disputes procedural issues.“Trump never paid much attention to advice of experts and is now just trying to do what he thinks his base wants,” said Hussain Haqqani, former Pakistan ambassador to the US and an expert on the region, at Hudson Institute, a think tank, referencing Trump’s campaign promise from 2016 to end “endless wars”. “He sees (troop) withdrawal from Afghanistan not as a national security problem to be resolved in a methodical manner, but just as a talking point at his rallies. Like many of his other decisions, this will not be without cost.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-government-announces-troop-withdrawal-from-afghanistan-iraq/story-bxqDuBMmmxMxdMwzw7Zd8H.html
18-11-2020||World||Nancy Pelosi likely to be nominated for 2 more years as Speaker||House Democrats seem certain to nominate Nancy Pelosi for two more years as speaker, but she’ll be leading a smaller majority divided along ideological lines as it tries shepherding President-elect Joe Biden’s agenda toward enactment.Click here for full US Election 2020 coveragePelosi, D-Calif., faced no announced rivals for the post Wednesday as the chamber’s Democrats planned their first-ever virtual leadership elections in response to the pandemic. House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer, D-Md., and No. 3 party leader Jim Clyburn, D-S.C., were also on track to retain their positions.“Let us all be advocates for unity in the Democratic party, where our values are opportunity and community,” Pelosi wrote to Democrats this week.The first female speaker, Pelosi has won wide acclaim among Democrats as a leading foe of outgoing President Donald Trump in battles over impeachment, immigration and health care. She’s given as good as she’s gotten from the insult-prone president, sometimes directly to his face, prompting him to call her “Crazy Nancy” and supporters to create memes and action figures honoring her.But with some votes still being tallied in this month’s elections, 10 incumbent House Democrats have been defeated, dashing expectations of adding seats and damaging party morale. Democrats were on track to have perhaps a 222-213 majority, one of the smallest in decades.This has sparked finger-pointing, with progressives saying the party failed to adequately win over minority and young liberal voters. Moderates say that they were hurt by far-left initiatives like defunding the police and that Pelosi should have struck a preelection stimulus deal with the White House.Besides bitterness over their election setback, many Democrats continue calling for fresh leadership. Pelosi and Hoyer have been No. 1 and 2 House Democrats since 2003, while Clyburn rose to the No. 3 ranks in 2007. Pelosi and Clyburn are 80, Hoyer is 81.Yet with no plausible rival, Pelosi seemed headed to what would be her seventh and eight years as speaker. She served the first four during the 2000s until Republicans recaptured the House majority in the tea party election of 2010, a conservative uprising that presaged the rise of Trump.In one indication of her strength, one conservative Democrat who’s opposed Pelosi before said he expected her to be reelected and said he might support her this time.“I think she gets it,” Rep. Kurt Schrader, D-Ore., who said he’s spoken to Pelosi about the need for a moderate agenda, said in an interview. “She may be the bulwark against the extreme far-left.”Schrader said far-left progressives have been “toxic to our brand” by favoring policies he said cost jobs. “We can’t continue to talk down to people and only talk about identity politics,” he said.House Democrats were also voting Wednesday and Thursday on lesser leadership posts.Pelosi needs only a majority of the approximately 222 House Democrats to be renominated as the party’s candidate for speaker. It was possible Wednesday’s vote would be by acclamation, forgoing the secret ballot roll call set by party rules.“I think it’s smooth sailing,” said Rep. Jamie Raskin, D-Md., a Pelosi supporter. “We’ve maintained our majority, but it’s slender. But I don’t think anybody would be foolish enough to take advantage of the situation.”When the new Congress convenes in early January and the House elects its new speaker, Pelosi will need the majority of votes cast by both parties. Since nearly all Republicans are expected to back their leader, Rep. Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., Pelosi can afford to lose only a few Democrats.When Pelosi nailed down the support she needed to become speaker in 2018, she said she’d agreed to a proposal limiting her to serving in the job only through 2022. Several lawmakers and aides said memories of that commitment could lessen her opposition this time.Also potentially helping Pelosi is the decision by Rep. Cheri Bustos, D-Ill., to step aside as chair of House Democrats’ political arm.Some Democrats have faulted the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee for insufficiently protecting moderate Democratic incumbents from swing districts. They’re also unhappy that the committee did not detect the huge numbers of GOP voters Trump drew to the polls — which was missed by Republican and independent pollsters alike.“Having Trump on the ticket in ’20 was very different from not having him on the ticket in ’18,” said Rep. Don Beyer, D-Va., another Pelosi supporter.When Democrats won back the House in 2018, 32 of them voted against Pelosi’s nomination as speaker. But that was a larger majority than this one, giving her more margin for error then.By the time the full House elected her in January 2019, she’d whittled down her opposition and just 13 Democrats voted against her or voted “present.”Of the 13 Democrats who opposed Pelosi in 2019, two have been defeated and one, Rep. Jeff Van Drew of New Jersey, became a Republican. That leaves 10 Democrats who voted against her, though another, New York’s Anthony Brindisi, may still lose his election.Pelosi has pushed bills through the House — they died in the GOP-run Senate — embodying Democratic priorities overhauling ethics and campaign finance laws, lowering health care costs and rebuilding infrastructure. She’s also been a prodigious fundraiser for candidates.To prevent lawmakers from crowding unsafely into one room, Democrats’ leadership candidates were delivering remarks to scattered lawmakers using Zoom, the online meeting platform. Republicans met in a crowded hotel ballroom Tuesday and reelected their current leadership team.Democrats’ votes were being cast on a new app designed to keep the process secure by using encryption.In a test run Tuesday, Democrats voted on their favorite all-time musician. Their choice by a wide margin: the Queen of Soul, Aretha Franklin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nancy-pelosi-likely-to-be-nominated-for-2-more-years-as-speaker/story-JabGjKKE38ZwkcseYJiWsN.html
18-11-2020||World||US approves first self-testing kit for detecting Covid-19||US gave the greenlight for the first Covid-19 diagnostic kit for self-testing at home, adding an additional tool to battle the pandemic as nationwide testing capabilities come under more strain. The Food and Drug Administration issued an emergency use authorization to Lucira Health Inc.’s rapid-result All-In-One Test Kit, according to a statement from the government agency Tuesday.What is the Lucira test?The Lucira test is currently authorized for prescription use only, and the FDA said health-care providers are required to report all results to the government. The Lucira test works by swirling the self-collected sample swab in a vial that is then placed in the test unit. The results can be read directly from the test unit’s light-up display. In addition to home use, the product is also authorized for use in doctor’s offices, hospitals and emergency rooms.Read more | Toilet paper limits, empty shelves are back as Covid-19 surgesALSO WATCH | ‘More people may die if…’: Biden urges Trump to coordinate on tackling Covid How is this different from other Covid-19 tests? While some Covid-19 tests allow people to provide samples from home, this is the first that can be fully self-administered and provide results at home in 30 minutes or less. The approval comes at a time when the country -- which has the the world’s largest number of total cases, at more than 11 million -- is fighting a fierce resurgence of infections. It could also help take some strain off testing labs that are being overwhelmed by demand. But complete self-testing isn’t widely adopted in the world as it runs the risks of introducing human error and false results, and cases may go unreported to the officials.“This new testing option is an important diagnostic advancement to address the pandemic and reduce the public burden of disease transmission,” said FDA commissioner Stephen Hahn in the statement.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-approves-first-self-testing-kit-for-detecting-covid-19/story-3J5mZpLIatbIdqBumDuuzO.html
18-11-2020||World||Thai Parliament to vote on constitution as protests turn violent||Thailand’s parliament is set to vote on a roadmap for constitutional amendments on Wednesday, a day after the most violent anti-government protest in years left more than 50 people injured. Lawmakers will vote on how to amend the charter, one of the key demands of pro-democracy groups, who are also calling for monarchy reform and the resignation of Prime minister Prayuth Chan-Ocha. On Tuesday, a rally near the parliament turned violent after the police fired water cannons mixed with irritants to disperse the crowd and some pro-government supporters clashed with the protesters.The youth-led groups have called for another gathering in Bangkok on Wednesday to pressure lawmakers into considering their demand for a major rewrite of the constitution. The clashes point to an escalation in the months-long movement with pro-establishment groups too staging regular demonstrations.“If the parliament doesn’t accept the amendment that the people want, there’d be no more compromise,” Free Youth, one of the protest groups said on Facebook. It said charter should be amended to bring the monarchy under the constitution.Read more | Funds pile into Thailand as vaccine progress boosts tourism hopesThe parliament vote on charter pathway is yet another attempt at placating the protesters, who have broken long-held taboos about publicly criticizing the royal family and questioning laws that stifle discussion of the monarchy. While the lawmakers may vote to amend the charter, political analysts say changes likely won’t address all of the demands from the protesters.Thailand’s current charter has been the point of contention since its inception after Prayuth, a former army chief, took power in a 2014 coup. Protesters and critics viewed it as instrumental in helping the royalist establishment retain its grip on power with Prayuth returning as the leader after the 2019 elections. The charter allows the military-appointed Senate, whose powers protesters want scrapped, to vote for the premier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thai-parliament-to-vote-on-constitution-as-protests-turn-violent/story-3fwS6i2dWwnJsdORMErHYM.html
18-11-2020||World||Indian Americans Vivek Murthy, Arun Majumdar among likely in Biden’s Cabinet: reports||Two eminent India-Americans, including former US Surgeon General Vivek Murthy, are among the potential Cabinet picks in the next Biden-Harris Administration, according to media reports.Murthy, who currently is the top Indian-American advisor to President-elect Joe Biden on Covid-19, is a potential pick for the post of Secretary of Health and Human Services and Stanford University Professor Arun Majumdar for the post of Secretary of Energy, The Washington Post and Politico said in their reports on Tuesday that mentions a list of potential picks for various Cabinet-level positions in the Biden administration. Murthy, 43, is currently one of the co-chairs of the Covid-19 advisory board of the transition. He has been a close associate of Biden on coronavirus issues.Similarly, Majumdar, a professor of mechanical engineering at Stanford who served as the first director of the Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy, has been a top advisor to Biden on energy related issues, the reports said.“The office, which is an incubator for nascent energy technologies, has enjoyed bipartisan support in Congress, which may bode well for his chances of being confirmed by the Senate,” reported The Washington Post.Among other potential names for energy secretary are Ernest Moniz, former secretary of energy; Dan Reicher, Stanford University scholar and Elizabeth Sherwood-Randall, former deputy secretary of energy.For replacing Alex Azar as Secretary of Health and Human Services, two other potential names are Mandy Cohen, secretary of the North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services and Michelle Lujan Grisham, New Mexico governor.Murthy was one of the public health experts who briefed Biden frequently about the pandemic during the campaign, the reports said.Murthy became the 19th US Surgeon General at the end of 2014, slightly more than a year after his nomination by President Barack Obama.His nomination had been held up in the Senate for just over a year, largely because of his view that gun violence poses a public health threat.Read more | Former US surgeon general Vivek Murthy may get key role in Biden administrationDuring his tenure, he issued a landmark report on drug and alcohol addiction, calling it “a moral test for America” and placing it among reports his predecessors had produced to draw attention to other major public health threats, such as tobacco use, AIDS, the need for physical activity.Since leaving the government, he has written and spoken out about loneliness.He was a vice admiral in the US Public Health Service’s commissioned corps and is trained in internal medicine.Majumdar is the Jay Precourt Provostial Chair Professor at Stanford University, a faculty member of the Departments of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science and Engineering (by courtesy) and co-Director of the Precourt Institute for Energy, which integrates and coordinates research and education activities across all seven Schools and the Hoover Institution at Stanford. He is also a faculty in Department of Photon Science at SLAC. In October 2009, Majumdar was nominated by President Obama and confirmed by the Senate to become the Founding Director of the Advanced Research Projects Agency - Energy (ARPA-E), where he served till June 2012 and helped ARPA-E become a model of excellence and innovation for the government with bipartisan support from Congress and other stakeholders. After leaving Washington, DC and before joining Stanford, Majumdar was the Vice President for Energy at Google, where he created several energy technology initiatives, especially at the intersection of data, computing and electricity grid.President-elect Joe Biden has said that his Cabinet would be the most diverse ever.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indian-americans-vivek-murthy-arun-majumdar-among-likely-in-biden-s-cabinet-reports/story-BwyUgu5422m26kC6Rd1ZIO.html
18-11-2020||World||South Australia imposes six-day lockdown to curb outbreak||South Australia announced a six-day lockdown to help contain a growing cluster of Covid-19 infections, imposing the nation’s strictest state-wide stay-at-home orders since the pandemic began.From midnight, only one person from each household will be allowed to leave home each day, and only for specific purposes, authorities said. Schools, universities, cafes and restaurants will close and mask-wearing will be mandatory.“Time is of the essence,” state Premier Steven Marshall said Wednesday. “And we must act swiftly and decisively, we cannot wait to see how bad this becomes.”Twenty-two people in the state capital Adelaide have been infected after a cleaner at a quarantine hotel was exposed to the virus, and health authorities say the “circuit breaker” measures are necessary to avoid a wider outbreak.Read more | Australia races to contain Adelaide virus outbreakThe state of 1.7 million people, who are spread out over a landmass five times the size of the UK, had largely eradicated community transmission of the virus after a nationwide lockdown earlier this year. The cluster, and a more severe outbreak in neighboring Victoria state that triggered a three-month lockdown in the city of Melbourne, show that ongoing vigilance is required to control the virus -- even in a nation that has been spared the scale of infections and deaths experienced in Europe and the US.Other parts of the nation have now deemed South Australia a virus hotspot and reimposed state border restrictions. That could prove a further blow to efforts to reinvigorate the tourism industry just as Australia heads into its peak summer holiday season.“There is no second chance to stop a second wave,” Marshall said. “We are at a critical point, but we will get through this.”Read more | China gives explanation for pummeling Australia on tradeFactories other than those producing food and medical products will be closed for six days, as will the construction industry. Critical infrastructure and essential services including supermarkets and petrol stations will remain open.The measures won’t have the same economic impact as the shutdown in Victoria, the nation’s second-largest state economy after New South Wales. South Australia’s economy represents around 5% of national gross domestic product. Victoria’s outbreak was also linked to quarantine hotels, where security guards failed to observe safety protocols and spread the virus back into their communities in Melbourne. Authorities in Adelaide are examining how the cleaner became infected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-australia-imposes-six-day-lockdown-to-curb-outbreak/story-hQoRTYgMPmr9e07TYTnGjL.html
18-11-2020||World||Chapare virus: All about the deadly virus that can spread between humans||At a time when countries across the globe are struggling to contain the Covid-19 pandemic, the United States’ Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has announced that a deadly virus, which causes haemorrhagic fever like Ebola, can now also be transmitted through people.After the CDC’s announcement, sciencetimes.com quoted experts as saying that even in case of an outbreak, Chapare was unlikely to cause a pandemic on the scale of Covid-19. However, it also warned there were reasons to be alarmed about a potential Chapare outbreak.Here’s all you need to know about the Chapare haemorrhagic fever:1. The Chapare virus was first discovered in 2004 in the Bolivian province of Chapare, from where it gets its name. Though it disappeared in 2004, an outbreak last year infected at least five people.2. Some symptoms of Chapare are fever, abdominal pain, vomiting, bleeding gums, skin rash and pain. Though the virus can be transmitted through bodily fluids and even kill infected people, sciencetimes.com reported that no active cases have been recorded this year.3. In the 2019 outbreak, three out of the five people infected were health workers of whom two died, sciencetimes.com further said.4. The first sign of last year’s outbreak was found in the sample of bodily fluids initially believed by doctors to be dengue. Further tests, however, did not show any signs of dengue. Subsequently, tests were conducted for two other deadly haemorrhagic virus-yellow fever and Machupo. The results, however, were once again negative.5. The virus was finally identified as the Chapare after the Pan-American Health Organization (PAHO), which was in partnership with CDC, gave it a sample. CDC also developed an RT-PCR test to diagnose the virus in the future.6. It was this outbreak that showed the virus could spread from person-to-person. Additionally, experts say the virus is present in the semen of a survivor for a duration of 24 weeks or 168 days after getting infected.7. Chapare virus was also detected in rodents around the home of the first infected person. Experts, however, noted this doesn’t prove that rodents were the source of the outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chapare-virus-all-about-the-deadly-virus-that-can-spread-between-humans/story-B0grsY8R7eGHarP7VQWOQJ.html
18-11-2020||World||Australia, Japan to bolster defense ties amid China’s rise||The leaders of Australia and Japan held in-person talks on Tuesday and reached a basic agreement on a bilateral defense pact that would allow their troops to work more closely, as the two US allies seek to bolster their ties to counter China’s growing assertiveness in the Asia-Pacific region.Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison and his Japanese counterpart, Yoshihide Suga, said the legal framework, called a Reciprocal Access Agreement, would allow their troops to visit each other’s countries for training and joint operations. It would also enhance their inter-operability and cooperation, they said.The deal is the first of its kind for Japan since its 1960 status of forces agreement with the United States, which set the terms for the basing of about 50,000 American troops to operate in and around Japan under the Japan-US security pact.The two leaders also agreed to cooperate in tackling climate change, including “working together for a lower emission and zero emission future, Morrison told a joint news conference.He called the defense agreement a “landmark” development for the two countries, which are both allies of the US while maintaining significant trade with China. Australia and Japan also have very strong and positive relations with all countries in the Indo-Pacific, Morrison said.Japan is committed to maintaining and deepening its 60-year-old alliance with the US as the cornerstone of its diplomacy and security, but has in recent years sought to complement its regional defense by stepping up cooperation with others, especially Australia, amid growing Chinese maritime activity.Japan officially limits itself to self-defense and bans first strikes under its post World War II pacifist constitution, but increased its defense role and spending under former Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.Abe pushed for greater military cooperation and weapons compatibility with the US as Japanese forces increasingly work alongside US troops. He also increased purchases of costly American stealth fighters and other weapons.Suga, who took office in September after Abe resigned due to ill health, is continuing his predecessor’s diplomatic and security policies.Japan considers Australia to be a semi-ally and the two countries signed a defense cooperation agreement in 2007, a first for Japan with a country other than the US The two nations agreed on the sharing of military supplies in 2013 and expanded the deal in 2017 to include munitions after Japan eased restrictions on arms equipment transfers.Suga said Japan and Australia are “special strategic partners” that are both committed to fundamental values such as freedom, democracy, human rights and the rule of law, and are working together to achieve peace and stability in the region.Suga said the new agreement underpins their determination to contribute to regional peace and will (asterisk)elevate our security cooperation to a new level.”In a joint statement, Suga and Morrison expressed “serious concerns about the situation” in the South and East China Seas and “strong opposition” to militarizing disputed islands and other unilateral attempts to change the status quo, without identifying China — signaling their sensitivity toward their biggest trading partner.Australian and Japanese interests are closely aligned but not identical and their approach to China and other countries in Asia differ, says Shiro Armstrong, director of the Australia-Japan Research Center at the Australian National University.“Deft and strategic diplomacy and cooperation will be needed to manage and navigate the China-US relationship,” he wrote in the East Asia Forum online research platform. “Australia and Japan face challenges that require multilateral solutions.”Japan has initiated a vision of economic and security cooperation called the “Free and Open Indo-Pacific” as a counter to China’s influence, and recently hosted talks among the foreign ministers of four countries known as the Quad — Japan, the US, Australia and India.Those four nations are now seeking to add more countries, from Southeast Asia and beyond, that share concerns about China’s growing assertiveness in the region.Tuesday’s basic agreement on a Japan-Australia defense pact comes as the navies of the Quad nations hold a joint exercise in the Northern Arabian Sea seen as part of their regional initiative to counter China.China defends its actions in the regional seas as peaceful and denies violating international rules. It has criticized the Quad as an “Asian NATO” to counter China.Despite its pacifist constitution, Japan’s defense spending ranks among the top 10 in the world, according to the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute. Australia is among the top 15.At the end of their news conference, Morrison presented Suga with a set of medals from the 2000 Sydney Olympics and wished Japan success with hosting the 2021 Tokyo Games, which were delayed by the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australia-japan-to-bolster-defense-ties-amid-china-s-rise/story-7RmOYiHvMHbMET4mN6lhrJ.html
18-11-2020||World||‘Democracy is so much bigger than anybody’s ego’: Michelle Obama calls for smooth transition of power||Michelle Obama, the former first lady of the United States, reflected upon President Donald Trump’s shock election victory in 2016 as she talked about exiting the White House in a social media post on Tuesday. Urging the Trump administration to ensure a smooth transition of power after a close win by Democrat Joe Biden, Obama asked leaders to honour the electoral process, “just as sitting presidents have done throughout the history.”“I want to urge all Americans, especially our nation’s leaders, regardless of party, to honor the electoral process and do your part to encourage a smooth transition of power, just as sitting presidents have done throughout our history,” she said in an Instagram post. “I was hurt and disappointed—but the votes had been counted and Donald Trump had won,” she wrote referring to Trump’s victory in the last presidential elections. “The American people had spoken. And one of the great responsibilities of the presidency is to listen when they do,” she added. A post shared by Michelle Obama (@michelleobama)Recalling the transition process, she wrote: “My husband and I instructed our staffs to do what George and Laura Bush had done for us: run a respectful, seamless transition of power—one of the hallmarks of American democracy.” “We invited the folks from the president-elect’s team into our offices and prepared detailed memos for them, offering what we’d learned over the past eight years,” she added.Michelle Obama also said that the process was not easy for her as Trump had spread “racist lies” about her husband and the former president Barack Obama and her family which she said, “wasn’t something I was ready to forgive.”Also Read | Donald Trump to nominate bank watchdog in potential blow to Joe Biden“I have to be honest and say that none of this was easy for me. Donald Trump had spread racist lies about my husband that had put my family in danger. That wasn’t something I was ready to forgive. But I knew that, for the sake of our country, I had to find the strength and maturity to put my anger aside,” the former first lady added.She further wrote, “I knew in my heart it was the right thing to do—because our democracy is so much bigger than anybody’s ego. Our love of country requires us to respect the results of an election even when we don’t like them or wish it had gone differently.” “The presidency doesn’t belong to anyone individual or any one party,” she also said.The criticism by Michelle Obama comes as Trump has refused to concede defeat in the recently held US presidential elections. Alleging fraud in ballot counting, Trump has instead threatened to challenge the electoral result in the Supreme Court.Also Read | Explained: What is presidential pardon and can Trump use it as his presidency nears end?Biden defeated Trump by winning a series of battleground states that the Republican incumbent had won in 2016. The Democratic former vice president also won the national popular vote by more than 5.5 million votes or 3.6 percentage points. On Monday, Trump once again refused to acknowledge Biden’s victory as he tweeted “I WON THE ELECTION!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/democracy-is-so-much-bigger-than-anybody-s-ego-michelle-obama-calls-for-smooth-transition-of-power/story-vh3jV6AYaMsP356zg0FkLJ.html
18-11-2020||World||Twitter launches disappearing tweets called Fleets that vanish in a day||Twitter is launching tweets that disappear in 24 hours called “Fleets” globally, echoing social media sites like Snapchat, Facebook and Instagram that already have disappearing posts.The company says the ephemeral tweets, which it calls “fleets” because of their fleeting nature, are designed to allay the concerns of new users who might be turned off by the public and permanent nature of normal tweets.Fleets can’t be retweeted and they won’t have “likes.” People can respond to them, but the replies show up as direct messages to the original tweeter, not as a public response, turning any back-and-forth into a private conversation instead of a public discussion.Twitter tested the feature in Brazil, Italy, India, and South Korea, before rolling it out globally.Fleets are a “lower pressure” way to communicate “fleeting thoughts” as opposed to permanent tweets, Twitter executives Joshua Harris, design director, and Sam Haveson, product manager, said in a blog post.The news comes the same day Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey and Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg faced questions from a Senate Judiciary Committee about how they handled disinformation surrounding the presidential election. Both sites have stepped up action taken against disinformation. Zuckerberg and Dorsey promised lawmakers last month that they would aggressively guard their platforms from being manipulated by foreign governments or used to incite violence around the election results — and they followed through with high-profile steps that angered Trump and his supporters.The new “Fleets” feature is reminiscent of Instagram and Facebook “stories” and Snapchat’s snaps, which let users post short-lived photos and messages. Such features are increasingly popular with social media users looking for smaller groups and more private chats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/twitter-launches-disappearing-tweets-called-fleets-that-vanish-in-a-day/story-JydlBeBoMivxFURs6z5apL.html
18-11-2020||World||Abu Dhabi puts the squeeze on Imran Khan, Pakistanis in UAE feel the heat||Relations between Pakistan and the UAE appear to be on a sharp downward spiral in recent weeks, particularly after Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan was critical of the UAE’s formalisation of its relationship with Israel, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity.This has manifested itself not just in the arrest of pro-Palestine Pakistani activists in the UAE, but also of other Pakistani residents, sometimes for minor crimes. The people familiar with the matter said about 5,000 Pakistani inmates are housed in Al Sweihan Jail in Abu Dhabi alone.It is likely that the UAE could impose tighter visa norms for Pakistani nationals who wish to travel to the Emirates for employment. HT learns that Pakistani residents are finding it difficult to renew Resident Permits, and there has been a buzz about deportation, although no reports of a large-scale exercise to this effect have emerged.ALSO WATCH | After polls, protests erupt in Gilgit-Baltistan against Imran Khan’s PTI HT also learns that the Pakistani Ambassador in Abu Dhabi, Ghulam Dastgir, recently met senior leaders of the ruling establishment of the UAE in this regard — but was told to back off.Also Read: Nawaz Sharif crosses Army’s redline in battle with Imran Khan. Pushback beginsInterestingly, while the immediate trigger may be Khan’s comments, some of the UAE’s moves appear to have been prompted by the findings of its investigation into the 2017 attack in Kandahar in which five UAE diplomats died. The people cited in the first instance said the UAE investigators concluded that the Haqqani Network was behind the attack, and that Pakistan’s all-powerful Inter-Services Intelligence spy agency was also directly involved. Back then, Islamabad’s immediate reaction was to blame Iran for the attack.The developments in the UAE’s relationship with Pakistan also need to be seen in the context of Saudi Arabia’s ties with Pakistan. Islamabad’s efforts to involve West Asian nations in issues concerning its relationship with New Delhi haven’t gone down well in both countries, the people familiar with the matter added.Pakistani foreign minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi warned the Saudi-led Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) in August that if it did not convene a meeting of the OIC’s Council of Foreign Ministers to discuss India’s nullification of Article 370 in J&K, Pakistan would go ahead to call a meeting of Islamic countries that would stand by it on the Kashmir issue. Saudi Arabia and Pakistan are also locked in tough negotiations for repayment of debt. In 2018, with Islamabad facing a current accounts crisis, the Saudis had extended Pakistan a $6.2 billion package, which included $3 billion in loans, and oil on deferred payments worth $3.2 billion. In addition to calling in the loans, Riyadh has frozen the oil credit facility extended to Pakistan.Also Read: Pak’s ‘dossier’ on India is a gamble. 4 reasons why Imran Khan took the risk | AnalysisAnd recently, Saudi Arabia asked the Pakistani Embassy in Riyadh to not hold any public event to commemorate what it observes as “Kashmir Black Day” (October 27) .The worsening relationships with the UAE and Saudi Arabia should worry Pakistan, which has for years, survived on support from West Asia. It is this support that has prevented its isolation, despite enough evidence of its involvement in fostering terror groups, and using them to achieve its own ends. Loss of support from these countries will not only hurt Pakistan economically but may also leave it without too many friends even in the Muslim world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/first-saudi-now-uae-is-tightening-the-screws-on-imran-khan-government/story-zvwG5YEkOQpYicVVXZzfpI.html
18-11-2020||World||A lost dog’s journey across the Canadian border and back||A lost dog’s journey across the Canadian border and back was complicated by coronavirus restrictions limiting movement from a town on one side of the St John River to a Maine town on the other.Diamond, a German shepherd, escaped from her home in New Brunswick on Saturday and crossed a border bridge into Fort Kent, Maine, where coronavirus restrictions prevented her caretakers from following, the Bangor Daily News reported.The owner, Paryse Michaud, was at her daughter’s hockey tournament several hours away when she got the news that the 17-month-old shepherd had escaped from their home in Clair, New Brunswick. Michaud’s father was looking after the dog when she escaped, the newspaper reported.Michaud posted a plea for help on Facebook, saying the dog had crossed the border.Over the next six hours, Michaud received updates from people in Maine tracking the dog, the newspaper reported. A friend found the dog in a garage and coordinated with other friends on the Canadian side for a handoff.Finally, Michaud got a text with a photo of the dog and Annik Sirois, a family friend, in a car on the Canadian side of the border.Diamond was united with Michaud and her family on Sunday after being handed off at a border station, the newspaper reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/a-lost-dog-s-journey-across-the-canadian-border-and-back/story-XPcxIlykMrK2SulxvDvAnO.html
18-11-2020||World||Donald Trump to nominate bank watchdog in potential blow to Joe Biden||President Donald Trump signaled he intends to nominate the acting Comptroller of the Currency to a new five-year term, potentially complicating plans the Biden administration has to impose tougher regulations on Wall Street banks.In a Tuesday statement, the White House said it intends to submit Brian Brooks’ name to the Senate for confirmation. The highly unusual move -- coming just weeks before what’s likely the end of Trump’s time in office -- could force President-elect Joe Biden to rely on never-used legal authority to try to remove Brooks and replace him with a more aggressive watchdog.Though the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency is a division of the Treasury Department, it’s outside of the Treasury secretary’s direct control. Still, the law says a comptroller can be ousted by the president “upon reasons to be communicated by him to the Senate” -- a power that’s gone untested.Most of the major regulations for US banks are written and approved in collaboration among the Federal Reserve, Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and the OCC. Having Trump people atop any of those agencies could have a major impact on how much rulemaking could be done by Biden’s apointees.The FDIC is already expected to be run by Chairman Jelena McWilliams, a Trump pick, until 2023, and Fed Vice Chairman for Supervision Randal Quarles can stay in his role until late next year. The OCC was thought to be the only slot immediately open for Biden to start remaking banking policy.Brooks wouldn’t have much time to be confirmed before the president-elect is sworn in on Jan. 20. Brooks must face a hearing before the Senate Banking Committee and needs to be approved by that panel before his nomination could be considered by the full Senate.It’s unclear whether Trump and Senate Republicans could organize all of that and marshal enough votes. They’ve already been stymied in the controversial confirmation process of Fed board nominee Judy Shelton, as Republicans concluded Tuesday that they lacked sufficient backing to advance her nomination.Brooks, who became interim head of the OCC in May, has leveraged experience he gained at San Francisco-based cryptocurrency company Coinbase Inc. and other firms to push a financial technology agenda. He was also the former top lawyer and a board member at Fannie Mae.“If confirmed, I will work ceaselessly to ensure the agency continues to fulfill its critical mission,” Brooks said in a Tuesday statement.While the Fed is generally considered the most powerful of Wall Street’s regulators, the OCC has the most on-the-ground examiners working inside major banks. It also imposes some of the biggest sanctions on lenders that are accused of violating rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-to-nominate-bank-watchdog-in-potential-blow-to-joe-biden/story-NUBNMcb9iKliScgRuLdDzM.html
18-11-2020||World||US to drop drugs case against ex-Mexican defence minister||US prosecutors will drop drug charges against ex-Mexican defence minister Salvador Cienfuegos and turn over the investigation to Mexico, saying “sensitive” foreign policy considerations outweighed the interest in pressing the case.The surprise decision to dismiss the charges in the politically explosive case was announced in a joint statement on Tuesday from the US Department of Justice (DOJ) and Mexico’s attorney general’s office.“The United States has determined that sensitive and important foreign policy considerations outweigh the government’s interest in pursuing the prosecution of the defendant,” prosecutors from the US Eastern District of New York said in a court document unsealed on Tuesday.US authorities said the 72-year-old ex-general, accused of using his power to protect a faction of the Beltran-Leyva drugs cartel in Mexico while ordering operations against its rivals, had agreed to voluntarily return to Mexico if the US case against him was thrown out.Cienfuegos, who served as head of the military and was former President Enrique Pena Nieto’s top defense official from 2012 to 2018, pleaded not guilty earlier this month to the charges following his October arrest in the Los Angeles airport.After a hearing on Wednesday in a Brooklyn federal court, where the judge is expected to sign off on the prosecutors’ request, Cienfuegos will likely be transported back to Mexico in the custody of a US Marshal, the court documents show.The arrest of Cienfuegos, who for years worked closely with US counterparts on highly sensitive cross-border criminal matters, put a severe strain on security ties between the two countries.The Mexican government was not forewarned of the investigation or arrest, which angered Mexican sensitivities at the highest level. His arrest shocked Mexico’s security establishment, given his close ties to a range of current senior officials.In retaliation, Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador publicly threatened to review cooperation agreements that establish how US Drug Enforcement Administration agents operate in the country.In remarks to reporters shortly after the announcement, Mexican Foreign Minister Marcelo Ebrard described the dropping of the US case as unprecedented and a sign of respect for both Mexican sovereignty as well as the Mexican military.Ebrard said the decision meant that security cooperation between the two nations could proceed.He said the Department of Justice had provided Mexican authorities with evidence in the case and committed to support the investigation led by Mexican authorities.Neither US prosecutors or defense lawyers for Cienfuegos could immediately be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-to-drop-drugs-case-against-ex-mexican-defence-minister/story-PZ3HAGGfoA11YahJ5xzi8J.html
18-11-2020||World||Toilet paper limits, empty shelves are back as Covid-19 surges||Looking for toilet paper? Good luck.A surge of new coronavirus cases in the US is sending people back to stores to stockpile again, leaving shelves bare and forcing retailers to put limits on purchases.Walmart said Tuesday it’s having trouble keeping up with demand for cleaning supplies in some stores. Supermarket chains Kroger and Publix are limiting how much toilet paper and paper towels shoppers can buy after demand spiked recently. And Amazon is sold out of most disinfectant wipes and paper towels.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage A similar scene played out back in March, when the pandemic first hit and people hunkered down in their homes.But Geoff Freeman, president and CEO of the Consumer Brands Association, formerly the Grocery Manufacturers Association, said he doesn’t expect things to be as bad this go-around since lockdowns are being handled on a regional basis and everyone is better prepared.“A more informed consumer combined with a more informed manufacturer and a more informed retailer should provide all of us with a greater sense of ease and ensure we can meet this growing demand, “ Freeman said.The biggest supply issue seems to be paper products: 21% of shelves that stock paper towels and toilet paper are empty, the highest level in at least a month, according to market research company IRI. Cleaning supplies have remained level at 16%. Before the pandemic, 5% to 7% of consumer goods were typically out of stock, IRI said.Contributing to the problem is the fact that roughly 10% of the workforce at manufacturing plants where the products are made are calling out sick, mainly because they’ve been in contact with others who were tested positive to Covid-19, Freeman said.Kelly Anderson of Colorado Springs, Colorado, said she needs more supplies now that in-person school in her area was canceled earlier this month and her two children are at home more. She’s noticed others are stocking up, too: Safeway and Walmart were nearly wiped out of bottled water and disinfectant wipes during a recent visit, both of which had been easy to find since the summer.It’s also been harder to find a time slot to get her groceries delivered. Anderson says she’s had to wait as many as two days instead of same-day delivery. But that’s still not as bad as earlier this year“March seems like a million years ago, but I do remember freaking out,” she said. “I couldn’t get groceries delivered for a week.”Walmart said while supplies are stressed in some areas, it thinks it will be able to handle any stockpiling now than earlier this year. Amazon said its working with manufacturers to get items such as disinfecting wipes, paper towels and hand sanitizer in stock.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/toilet-paper-limits-empty-shelves-are-back-as-covid-19-surges/story-v7ApLNXIZUR7sygZ2StBNI.html
18-11-2020||World||China gives explanation for pummeling Australia on trade||China gave one of its most detailed explanations yet for souring ties with Australia, calling on the nation to stop trying to impose its will on others.“Looking back on China-Australia relations in the past few years, we see some people in Australia adhere to a Cold War mentality and harbor ideological prejudice, regard China’s development as a threat, and have then made a series of wrong moves related to China,” Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian told reporters at a daily briefing in Beijing on Tuesday.“This is the root cause for China-Australia relations worsening to the current difficult situation,” Zhao said.In a sign some senior members of Prime Minister Scott Morrison’s government want to find a circuit-breaker to ease the tensions, Treasurer Josh Frydenberg will deliver a speech on Wednesday saying his nation is ready to re-engage in dialogue with Beijing after ministerial contacts were put on ice.Frydenberg will say that despite their differences, Australia is committed to maintaining a strong and productive relationship and is ready to engage with the Chinese government in respectful, mutually beneficial dialogue.Ties between the two key trading partners have been strained since 2018 when Canberra barred Huawei Technologies Co. from building its 5G network. But relations have really been in the deep freeze since Morrison’s government in April led calls for an inquiry into the origins of the coronavirus outbreak -- a move that bruised China’s pride and unleashed a torrent of criticism that Australia is a puppet of the US.Zhao rejected comments from Australian Trade Minister Simon Birmingham that “the ball is very much in China’s court to come to the table for that dialogue,” making clear China expected Australia to act first. He added that the actions of Canberra and some Australians had “seriously hurt the feelings of the Chinese people.”Zhao’s comments came as Morrison was in Tokyo to sign a defense agreement with Japan and strengthen the already close ties between those two nations. Japan and Australia are trying to build a coalition of “like-minded” democracies in the Indo-Pacific to push back against what they view as Beijing’s increasing expansionism in the region.“The current difficulties facing China-Australia relations are not something China wants to see. Responsibility for causing this situation has nothing to do with China,” Zhao said. “We hope the Australian side will admit to the real reason, look at China and China’s development objectively, earnestly handle our relations based on principles of mutual respect and equal treatment and do more to enhance mutual trust and cooperation.”Australia’s Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade didn’t immediately respond to an emailed request for comment on Zhao’s statement after work hours on Tuesday. In a radio interview on Wednesday, Birmingham repeated his assertion that the “ball is very much in China’s court.”Zhao also reeled off a list of ways in which the Australian government or its people had damaged relations with Beijing:“These practices have seriously damaged mutual trust between the two countries, poisoned the atmosphere for the development of bilateral relations, and restricted the momentum of cooperation between the two sides,” Zhao said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-gives-explanation-for-pummeling-australia-on-trade/story-xSeiECLItUyVwbLuGxpI5I.html
18-11-2020||World||Hurricane Iota roars onto Nicaragua as second blow in two weeks||Hurricane Iota battered Nicaragua with screeching winds and pounding surf Tuesday, chasing tens of thousands of people from their homes along the same stretch of the Caribbean coast that was devastated by an equally powerful hurricane just two weeks ago.The extent of the damage was unclear because much of the affected region was without electricity and phone and internet service, and strong winds hampered radio transmissions.Preliminary reports from the coast included toppled trees and electric poles and roofs stripped from homes and businesses, said Guillermo González, director of Nicaragua’s emergency management agency. More than 40,000 people were in shelters.Later, Nicaragua Vice President and first lady Rosario Murillo said that a brother and sister, ages 11 and 8, had drowned in the community of La Pinuela trying to cross the swollen Solera River. There were reports of others missing in the same area.A day earlier, Iota intensified into a Category 5 storm, but it weakened as it neared the coast and made landfall with maximum sustained winds of 155 mph (250 kph). The system came ashore as a Category 4 hurricane about 30 miles (45 kilometers) south of the Nicaraguan city of Puerto Cabezas, also known as Bilwi. That was just 15 miles (25 kilometers) south of where Hurricane Eta made landfall Nov. 3, also as a Category 4 storm.By Tuesday afternoon, Iota had diminished to a tropical storm and was moving inland over northern Nicaragua. It had maximum sustained winds of 60 mph (95 kph) and was spinning westward at 12 mph (19 kph). The storm was forecast to cross into southern Honduras late Tuesday.Aid agencies struggled to reach their local contacts, and the government said in a statement that at least 35 towns in the east and north had no phone service. Nicaragua’s telecommunications ministry said phone and broadband provider Columbus Networks was offline because of flooding in Bilwi.Along Honduras’ remote eastern coast Tuesday, people continued evacuating from damaged and flooding homes.Mirna Wood, vice president of the Miskito ethnic group in Honduras’ far east Gracias a Dios region, was in Tegucigalpa collecting donations for her community ravaged by Eta when Iota hit.Some 40,000 people in the area had moved to shelters from low-lying land beside rivers and the sea, but other people remained stranded near the border with Nicaragua. Some were rescued by Nicaraguan authorities, she said.In her last communication with the mayor of the community of Villeda Morales late Monday, he told her Iota was hitting them hard and the community had not completely evacuated.“We are facing an incredible emergency,” Wood said. “There is no food. There is no water.”In the community of Brus Laguna, some 500 people were in a shelter there and another 900 were being moved elsewhere, Mayor Teonela Paisano Wood said.“We’re in danger if it keeps raining,” Paisano Wood said.In mountainous Tegucigalpa, residents of low-lying, flood-prone areas were being evacuated in anticipation of Iota’s rains, as were residents of hillside neighborhoods vulnerable to landslides.Panama reported that one person was killed and another missing in its western indigenous autonomous Ngabe Bugle area near the border with Costa Rica.As the storm moved westward, flooding became a top concern. The Tola River topped its banks, and western Nicaragua, along the Pacific coast, was forecast to receive the most rain. Nicaragua’s meteorology director, Marcio Baca, said areas where the soil was already saturated would receive 6 to 7 inches of additional rain.Eta triggered flash floods and mudslides in parts of Central America and Mexico and killed more than 130 people.“This hurricane is definitely worse” than Eta, Jason Bermúdez, a university student from Bilwi, said as high winds preceded Iota’s arrival. Many houses lost roofs, fences and fruit trees.“We will never forget this year,” Bermúdez said.Even before Iota hit Nicaragua, it scraped over the tiny Colombian island of Providencia, more than 155 miles (250 kilometers) off Nicaragua’s coast. Colombian President Ivan Duque said one person was killed and 98% of the island’s infrastructure was “affected.”Providencia is inhabited almost exclusively by the descendants of African slaves and British colonizers, who speak an English version of Creole as their native language. The island has no direct flights to the continent, but it has become an increasingly popular tourist destination thanks to its quiet beaches and rich marine life. On Tuesday, Colombian officials said they were sending a ship with 15 tons of aid to the island.In the aftermath of Eta, tens of thousands of Hondurans were homeless. The country reported 74 deaths and nearly 57,000 people in shelters, mostly in the north.One of the hardest hit areas was La Lima, a San Pedro Sula suburb that flooded when the Chamelecon river topped its banks. Many people whose homes flooded moved to shelters or stayed with relatives. Some stayed behind in an attempt to protect what few possessions remained. Authorities tried to force most of them to move to shelters ahead of Iota’s arrival.On Monday, Wendy Guadalupe Contreras Paz, 34, was living under a tarp with her four children and seven other relatives along a main boulevard in La Lima.“I lost everything, I couldn’t take anything,” Contreras said. “But my mom and my grandmother have some things, and that’s why we’re living here, to be closer to the house and keep them from stealing the few little things they have left.”Iota is the record 30th named storm of this year’s historically busy Atlantic hurricane season. It’s also the ninth storm to rapidly intensify this season, a dangerous phenomenon that is happening more often. Such activity has focused attention on climate change, which scientists say causes wetter, stronger and more destructive storms.Iota developed later in the season than any other Category 5 storm on record, beating a Nov. 8, 1932, Cuba hurricane, said Colorado State University hurricane researcher Phil Klotzbach.The hurricane season officially ends Nov. 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hurricane-iota-roars-onto-nicaragua-as-second-blow-in-two-weeks/story-HXb6CdutxbivmosBNJOZVI.html
18-11-2020||World||Turkish parliament approves peacekeepers for Azerbaijan||Turkey’s parliament on Tuesday granted President Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s government permission to deploy peacekeepers to Azerbaijan to monitor a cease-fire deal between Azerbaijan and Armenia that aims to end the conflict in the region.In a show of hands, legislators voted in favor of a one-year mandate allowing the government to send troops to Azerbaijan, where they would observe possible violations of the truce from a joint Turkish-Russian monitoring center. The cease-fire ended six weeks of intense fighting between Azerbaijan and Armenia over the Nagorno-Karabakh region.Erdogan’s government would determine the number of troops to be sent and it wasn’t immediately clear how many the country planned to deploy. The motion states that civilian personnel could also be deployed as part of the peacekeeping mission.Last week, the defense ministers of Russia and Turkey signed a memorandum to create a joint monitoring center in Azerbaijan, although technical details of the mission are still being worked out.Azerbaijan has been pressing for its ally Turkey, which has supported Baku in the conflict, to take an active role in the peace talks and was the first to announce its involvement in the monitoring of the cease-fire agreement.Russian officials have said that Ankara’s involvement will be limited to the work of the monitoring center on Azerbaijani soil, and Turkish peacekeepers wouldn’t go to Nagorno-Karabakh. Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov has said the center will operate remotely, using drones and other technical means to monitor possible violations.The mandate further extends Turkey’s military engagements stretching from the Middle East to Africa. The country, which has been trying to craft itself a role as a regional power, has sent troops to Iraq and Syria to battle Kurdish militants and to Libya where its presence helped change the balance of a conflict there in favor of the Tripoli-based government. Ankara also maintains a military presence in Qatar, Somalia and on Cyprus and has peacekeepers in Afghanistan, Lebanon, Africa and the Balkans.The motion for the deployment in Azerbaijan was backed by four out of five parties in Turkey’s parliament. Erdogan’s government said the Turkish peacekeepers were crucial for the region’s peace and welfare and for Turkey’s national interests.“Turkey and Azerbaijan who regard themselves as one state and two people, will continue to struggle together for their independence and future,” said Ismet Yilmaz, who heads the parliamentary defense committee. “It is our historic and strategic responsibility to ensure that (Turkish troops) take up duty at the joint center to maintain the cease-fire and prevent violations.”Russian President Vladimir Putin said Tuesday that Turkey will be involved in the monitoring of the cease-fire alongside Russia per Azerbaijan’s request.“We will do it together with Turkey, given that we have a very good experience of cooperation in the Middle East, including in Syria, where we organize joint patrols both in the Idlib zone and on the border between Syria and Turkey,” Putin told Russia’s Rossiya 24 state TV channel.“There is no need in cooperation of this kind in this case, but we agreed to create a joint center that will use unmanned aerial vehicles, and together we will be monitoring the situation along the separation line with these aircraft,” he said.Russia, which negotiated the cease-fire, is sending about 2,000 peacekeeping troops under a five-year mandate.Nagorno-Karabakh lies within Azerbaijan but has been under control of ethnic Armenian forces backed by Armenia since a separatist war there ended in 1994.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/turkish-parliament-approves-peacekeepers-for-azerbaijan/story-tW560nnE88wJkQvIgaz81I.html
18-11-2020||World||Biden looks forward to working with PM Modi on ‘shared global challenges’: Transition team||US President-elect Joe Biden looks forward to working closely with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi on “shared global challenges”, including containing Covid-19 and maintaining a secure and prosperous Indo-Pacific region, Biden-Harris Presidential Transition team said on Tuesday. Biden and PM Modi had a telephonic conversation on Tuesday during which the latter congratulated the former vice president for winning the elections. Prime Minister Modi warmly congratulated President-elect Biden on his election, describing “it as a testament to the strength and resilience of democratic traditions in the United States”, according to a statement by Prime Minister’s office.The prime minister also extended his heartiest congratulations and best wishes to Vice President-elect Senator Kamala Harris.The president-elect thanked the prime minister for his congratulations and expressed his desire to strengthen and expand the US-India strategic partnership alongside the first vice president of South Asian descent Kamala Harris, according to a statement by his transition team. “The president-elect noted that he looks forward to working closely with the prime minister on shared global challenges, including containing Covid-19 and defending against future health crises, tackling the threat of climate change, launching the global economic recovery, strengthening democracy at home and abroad, and maintaining a secure and prosperous Indo-Pacific region,” the statement read.The call between the two leaders comes days after former Vice President Biden defeated President Donald Trump in the presidential race.During the telephonic conversation, Prime Minister Modi warmly recalled his earlier interactions with Biden, including during his official visits to the United States in 2014 and in 2016.Biden had chaired the Joint Session of the US Congress that was addressed by the Prime Minister during his 2016 visit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-looks-forward-to-working-with-pm-modi-on-shared-global-challenges-transition-team/story-x4kWAFO3xtJ0I5o4mcvkJJ.html
18-11-2020||World||EU must impose sanctions on Turkey, Pakistan amid rising terror attacks: French MEP||Concerned over terrorism emanating from countries like Turkey and Pakistan, French Member of the European Parliament (MEP) Jordan Bardella has called for “real financial or trade sanctions” against Ankara, Islamabad, Kuwait city and Doha in order to make “European solidarity tangible”.The calls for sanctions by Bardella comes as the rift between France and Muslim countries has widened. France in last one month has witnessed several terror attacks after Charlie Hebdo announced the republishing of controversial caricature of Prophet Muhammed and French President Emmanuel Macron refused to criticise it in early October.Protests erupted in Muslims countries over the incident. Social media users in many Muslim countries joined calls to boycott French goods.On October 16, a terrorist beheaded a secondary school teacher Samuel Paty who used controversial cartoons published by Charlie Hebdo in his classes. On the morning of October 30, another terrorist attack occurred when a man stabbed three people to death and wounded several others in a church in Nice.On November 2, an Islamist terrorist went on a deadly rampage in Vienna shooting dead four people and injuring more than 20 others in the city centre before he was killed by police.“Ongoing tragedy and terrorism continues on European soil and Europe struggles to find a common solution to the constant killings of innocent victims at the hand of the terrorists and extremists,” the European Chronicle reported.In light of this, on 28 October 2020, French Member of the European Parliament (MEP) Jordan Bardella posed a parliamentary question to the European Commission. Following his own statement “over and beyond feeble statements concerning the Turkish President’s ‘unacceptable’ comments,” MEP Bardella requested to know if the Commission is “planning to adopt any real financial or trade sanctions against countries such as Turkey, Pakistan, Kuwait and Qatar, in order to reassert our common values and make European solidarity tangible?”Over recent months and weeks, European parliamentarians have raised increasing concerns regarding terrorism and extremism emanating from countries like Turkey and Pakistan.The European Commission is expected to answer the questions of MEP Bardella in the coming weeks.French Member of European Parliament (MEP) Nicolas Bay has also asked European Union (EU) to stop “showering” Ankara and Islamabad with subsidies and customs facilities and instead put sanctions against them.“During the European Parliamentary plenary of November 11, French MEP Nicolas Bay from the Identity and Democracy Group had strong words against European aid to Pakistan and Turkey in light of threats coming from both countries. MEP Bay’s comments were made in the context of a debate on the ‘fight against terrorism, freedom of expression and education’,” a press statement read.Speaking to the European Commissioner Ylva Johansson responsible for Home Affairs, Nicolas Bay was critical of the support being given by the European Commission to the countries of concern.“You are showering countries like Pakistan and Turkey with subsidies and customs facilities. We want to sanction them!”Linking terrorism threats to migration, MEP Bay gave the stark warning that the latest terrorist attacks in Paris had all been committed by migrants arriving in Europe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-must-impose-sanctions-on-turkey-pakistan-amid-rising-terror-attacks-french-mep/story-FgZ5gX0tyZgX2w2R4JpU2J.html
18-11-2020||World||UK announces ban on sale of petrol, diesel cars by 2030||Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Tuesday night announced a ban on the sale of petrol and diesel cars by 2030 as part of a £12 billion green agenda, including £1.3 billion to rollout charge-points for electric vehicles in homes, streets and on motorways across England.Outlining his 10-point plan for a ‘UK Green Industrial Revolution’, Johnson said £582 million has been allocated as grants for those buying zero or ultra-low emission vehicles to make them cheaper to buy and incentivise more people to make the transition.Nearly £500 million will be spent in the next four years for the development and mass-scale production of electric vehicle batteries, officials said, adding that the ban on sale of petrol and diesel cars by 2030 had been agreed with car manufacturers and sellers.Johnson said: “Although this year has taken a very different path to the one we expected, the UK is looking to the future and seizing the opportunity to build back greener. The recovery of our planet and of our economies can and must go hand-in-hand”.“As we look ahead to hosting the COP26 climate summit next year, I am setting out an ambitious plan for a green industrial revolution that will transform the way we live in the UK. This is a shared global challenge - every country in the world needs to take action to secure the future of the planet for our children, grandchildren and generations to come,” he added.The agenda covers clean energy, transport, nature and innovative technologies, officials said. The UK is due to co-host the Climate Ambition Summit on December 12 and COP26 in Glasgow next year.The ten-point plan includes making cycling and walking more attractive ways to travel and investing in zero-emission public transport of the future, and producing enough offshore wind to power every home, quadrupling how much the UK produces to 40GW by 2030.It also envisages generating 5GW of low carbon hydrogen production capacity by 2030 for industry, transport, power and homes, developing the first town powered entirely by hydrogen by the end of the decade.Johnson announced £500 million for the hydrogen-related plan that includes trialling homes using hydrogen for heating and cooking, starting with a Hydrogen Neighbourhood in 2023, moving to a Hydrogen Village by 2025, with an aim for a Hydrogen Town – equivalent to tens of thousands of homes – before the end of the decade.An allocation of £525 million has been made to help develop large and smaller-scale nuclear plants, and research and develop new advanced modular reactors, besides £1 billion next year to make new and existing homes and public buildings more efficient, greener and comfortable.Poornima Prabhakaran of Public Health Foundation of India said: “With the spiking pollution levels again choking large tracts of Northern India, yet another lesson to emulate for India and the capital city in particular, to deal with its perennial problem of polluting vehicles”.“While enhancing public transport and disincentivising private vehicle ownership may work in the interim, a shift to cleaner fuels through a similar policy may just be the right prescription for securing clean air and healthy lungs.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-announces-ban-on-sale-of-petrol-diesel-cars-by-2030/story-jdF9OCnCxNq2eQbKwEGVDO.html
18-11-2020||World||Priyanka Chopra is British Fashion Council’s new ambassador||The British Fashion Council (BFC) on Tuesday announced Indian actor Priyanka Chopra Jonas as its new ‘Ambassador for Positive Change’ to support the organisation’s efforts to lead on change, using fashion as a positive platform to inspire future generations.The BFC said that as its ambassador, Priyanka Chopra Jonas will help raise awareness and promote best practice within the fashion industry, celebrating those that adhere to inclusive and ethical principles and act as a spokesperson for the importance of creative education.She will have an active role in BFC events throughout the year, including London Fashion Week and the Fashion Awards over a twelve-month period from November 2020 to December 2021.Caroline Rush, chief executive of BFC, said: “We are delighted to welcome Priyanka Chopra Jonas…Her work as a social activist, promoting causes such as the environment and women’s rights, and her commitment to using her reach for good are what have made her one of the industry’s most courageous voices and the perfect choice as the BFC Ambassador for Positive Change”.A BFC statement on the announcement quoted Chopra Jonas as saying: “Fashion has always been the pulse of pop culture, and can be a powerful force with the ability to connect cultures and bring people together”.“Through my (BFC) role, I look forward to celebrating the incredible diversity and creativity of the industry, while working to champion budding and iconic designers doing their part to make an indelible impact on people and our planet.”The BFC statement noted that Chopra Jonas has been the recipient of numerous awards, besides featuring in more than 60 international films. In 2016, she was conferred the Padma Shri, and in December 2019 she received the Danny Kaye Humanitarian Award for her efforts as a UNICEF Goodwill Ambassador.The BFC said her appointment is part of its strategy around the Institute of Positive Fashion, developed to help the British fashion industry lead in the goal to be more resilient, circular, equal and fair through global collaboration and local action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/priyanka-chopra-is-british-fashion-council-s-new-ambassador/story-7HQ9dvMnnpxNxB1efVFjlO.html
18-11-2020||World||Chinese Covid-19 vaccine also found safe, induces immune response||Results from an early-phase randomised clinical trial of a Chinese vaccine candidate based on the inactivated whole SARS-CoV-2 virus (CoronaVac) show that the formulation appears safe and induces an antibody response in health volunteers aged 18 to 59 years.The results, published on Tuesday in The Lancet Infectious Diseases Journal, add to the number of vaccine candidates under trial that have been found safe. The Chinese trial involved more than 700 volunteers recruited in China between April 16 and May 5.“The vaccine appeared to be safe and well tolerated at all tested doses. The most common reported side effect was pain at the injection site. Within 14 days of the final dose, study detected robust antibody responses after two injections of the vaccine candidate were given 14 days apart, even at lowest dose tested (3µg)”, the journal said.The results showed that antibody levels induced by the vaccine were lower than those seen in people who have been infected by and recovered from Covid-19, but researchers said they still expect the vaccine could provide protection from the virus.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicAntibody responses could be induced within 28 days of the first immunisation by giving two doses of the vaccine candidate 14 days apart, the results showed. The study also identified the optimum dose to generate the highest antibody responses, while taking account of side effects and production capacity: 3µg.Fengcai Zhu, joint lead author of the study, from the Jiangsu Provincial Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Nanjing, China, said: “Our findings show that CoronaVac is capable of inducing a quick antibody response within four weeks of immunisation by giving two doses of the vaccine at a 14 day interval”.“We believe that this makes the vaccine suitable for emergency use during the pandemic. In the longer term, when the risk of Covid-19 is lower, our findings suggest that giving two doses with a one month interval, rather than a two week interval, might be more appropriate for inducing stronger and potentially longer-lasting immune responses. However, further studies are needed to check how long the antibody response remains after either vaccination schedule.”Also Read: India pins hopes on locally-tested Covid-19 vaccines given Pfizer constraintsCoronaVac is a chemically-inactivated whole virus vaccine based on a strain of SARS-CoV-2 that was originally isolated from a patient in China. The phase 1/2 clinical trial was carried out in the Suining County of Jiangsu province in China.Writing in a linked Comment, Naor Bar-Zeev from Johns Hopkins University, who was not involved in the study, said: “Like all phase 2 trials, the results must be interpreted with caution until phase 3 results are published. But even then, after phase 3 trial completion and after licensure, we should prudently remain cautious.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-covid-19-vaccine-also-found-safe-induces-immune-response/story-vLzugsWNXgxDMrxyoTchxO.html
18-11-2020||World||UK’s Labour party readmits Jeremy Corbyn after brief suspension||Britain’s main opposition Labour party reinstated former leader Jeremy Corbyn on Tuesday, just weeks after he was suspended over his response to a damning watchdog report about anti-Semitism within the party.The disputes panel of Labour’s ruling National Executive Committee met on Tuesday and decided the veteran leftist could be readmitted, numerous UK media outlets reported.Corbyn said on Twitter he was “pleased” with the outcome.“Our movement must now come together to oppose and defeat this deeply damaging Conservative government,” he added.However, Labour leader Keir Starmer said on Twitter it had been “another painful day for the Jewish community and those Labour members who have fought so hard to tackle antisemitism”. “I will not allow a focus on one individual to prevent us from doing the vital work of tackling antisemitism,” he added.Corbyn’s reinstatement came hours after the ex-Labour leader acknowledged that concerns around anti-Semitism within the party were not “exaggerated” as he had claimed last month.He made the much-criticised assertion following the October 29 release of a report by the Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) which found the party had broken the law in its “inexcusable” handling of anti-Semitism complaints. I am pleased to have been reinstated in the Labour Party and would like to thank party members, trade unionists and all who have offered solidarity.Our movement must now come together to oppose and defeat this deeply damaging Conservative government.In defiance of the party’s new leadership under Starmer, Corbyn refused to accept all its findings and questioned the motives of the two-year independent probe.He insisted the scale of the problem had been “dramatically overstated for political reasons by our opponents inside and outside the party, as well as by much of the media”.The comments prompted his immediate suspension, pending an internal investigation.‘Broken outcome’ News of his reinstatement prompted fresh fury within the party, as numerous Labour lawmakers decried the decision on social media.“This is a broken outcome from a broken system,” veteran Labour MP Margaret Hodge said on Twitter.“A factional, opaque and dysfunctional complaints process could never reach a fair conclusion.“This is exactly why the EHRC instructed Labour to set up an independent process!”Also Read: UK’s Labour Party suspends Jeremy Corbyn in anti-semitism rowMeanwhile the Jewish Labour Movement said Corbyn’s case appeared to have been “expedited” by a “factionally aligned political committee”.“After his failure of leadership to tackle anti-Semitism, so clearly set out in the EHRC’s report, any reasonable and fair-minded observer would see Jeremy Corbyn’s statement today as insincere and wholly inadequate,” it added.The EHRC found damning instances where Corbyn’s leadership team underplayed, belittled or ignored complaints by Jewish members, and sometimes actively interfered to support favoured allies.That followed a deluge of anti-Semitic abuse online and in party meetings after he became leader in 2015.The report prompted fresh infighting within Labour between Corbyn loyalists and those eager to move away from the controversies of his tumultuous five-year tenure.In one of his first acts after replacing Corbyn in April, Starmer apologised to Britain’s Jewish community, and last month vowed to accept the entirety of the findings from the EHRC’s two-year investigation.On Tuesday, he reiterated the commitment. “That must mean establishing an independent complaints process as soon as possible in the New Year,” Starmer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-s-labour-party-readmits-jeremy-corbyn-after-brief-suspension/story-NWtc8M7pVnwLbdE6PcRYIO.html
18-11-2020||World||World races to contain coronavirus||Governments around the world scrambled to contain the coronavirus as Australian authorities conducted mass tests on Tuesday, confining about 4,000 people to quarantine in the hope of stifling a new cluster of Covid-19 cases.The state of South Australia reimposed social distancing restrictions after detecting 21 cases of the coronavirus, most of which were acquired locally.The cases were the first local transmissions of the virus in Australia in nine days. South Australia premier Steven Marshall said testing had identified five new cases in the past 24 hours, while 14 people were suspected to be infected and were awaiting test results. Russia has reported record 442 single-day Covid-19 deaths, up from the previous day’s tally of 303 fatalities. The country registered 22,410 cases in the past 24 hours. Moscow reported 5,882 cases, down from 6,360 recorded the previous day. Meanwhile, more than a million children in the United States have tested positive for the coronavirus disease since the beginning of the pandemic, the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) said in a statement.“As of November 12, a total of 1,039,464 children have tested positive for Covid-19 since the onset of the pandemic,” the AAP said. “In the one-week period ending November 12, there were 111,946 new cases in children, which is substantially larger than any previous week in the pandemic.”In Pakistan, an alliance of the country’s opposition political parties against the Imran Khan government said it will go ahead with a massive protest rally in Peshawar on November 22, defying the government’s order banning large public gatherings citing the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/world-races-to-contain-coronavirus/story-ZQvIwERnNLAoh982gP9ksK.html
18-11-2020||World||Joe Biden fears more Covid-19 deaths as Donald Trump holds up||US President-elect Joe Biden on Monday said more Americans “may die” because of President Donald Trump’s failure to allow his administration to cooperate and coordinate its response to the Covid-19 pandemic with members of the incoming team - part of his broader refusal to accept the outcome of the election.Biden had run on the promise of according top priority to the battle against Covid-19 if elected, and in his first significant step since the election, he set up an advisory team to start planning his administration’s approach after his inauguration on January 20. It has received no cooperation from Trump’s team yet.“More people may die if we don’t coordinate,” Biden told reporters when asked about the consequences of Trump’s refusal to cooperate with the new administration. “The vaccine is important. But it’s of no use until you’re vaccinated.”He said it would take a massive effort to get all Americans vaccinated - “a huge, huge, huge undertaking” - and pressed for the need to read into the Trump administration’s plan for development, procurement and distribution of vaccine under Operation Warp Speed, saying, “If we have to wait until January 20 to start that planning, it puts us behind.”The virus has killed over 247,000 Americans and infected over 11.2 million. Cases have been surging in recent days with 166,045 new infections reported in the last 24 hours and 995 fatalities, according to the Johns Hopkins University tracker.“We’re going into a very dark winter. Things are going to get much tougher before they get easier,” Biden said. “That requires sparing no effort to fight Covid, so that we can open our businesses safely, resume our lives and put this pandemic behind us. It’s going to be difficult, but it can be done.” On Trump’s refusal to allow the transition process, Biden said, “I find this more embarrassing for the country than debilitating for my ability to get started.” Trump has refused to publicly acknowledge that Biden beat him in the election, and has launched a flurry of lawsuits challenging the outcome. Also, he has barred his administration from getting started with the routine transition process, denying the president-elect intelligence briefings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-fears-more-covid-19-deaths-as-donald-trump-holds-up/story-BeoyqmETYvrCRvTclEeqCO.html
18-11-2020||World||BRICS countries urge for joint global effort to combat terrorism||BRICS countries on Tuesday called for an expeditious conclusion and adoption of the Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism and strongly condemned terrorism in all its forms and manifestations.In a joint declaration after the 12th summit on Tuesday, the countries emphasized the urgent need to negotiate a legally binding multilateral instrument that could fill the gap in the international legal regime applicable to outer space, including on the prevention of the placement of weapons.“To address the threat of chemical and biological terrorism, we emphasise the need to launch multilateral negotiations on an international convention for the suppression of acts of chemical and biological terrorism, at the Conference on Disarmament. We also call for an expeditious conclusion and adoption of the Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism within the UN framework,” the declaration said.They said terrorism should not be associated with any religion, nationality, civilization or ethnic group.“We reiterate our strong condemnation of terrorism in all its forms and manifestations whenever, wherever and by whomsoever committed, and that it should not be associated with any religion, nationality, civilization or ethnic group,” the declaration said.It said that the governments have the primary responsibility in combating terrorism with the United Nations continuing to play central and coordinating role in this area.BRICS countries underlined the importance of ensuring safety and security of outer space activities, use of outer space for peaceful purposes and prevention of an arms race in outer space.They underscored the fundamental importance of the 2010 Russia-US Treaty on Measures for the Further Reduction and Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms for the nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation regime and called on the parties to agree on its extension without delay.The member states also backed renewing talks on the protocol of the convention that bans biological warfare. The protocol in question should, according to the declaration, provide “an efficient verification mechanism.”BRICS countries also welcomed the ceasefire agreement between Armenia and Azerbaijan in the Karabakh region and support political efforts to restore peace there. The leaders of Brazil, Russia, India, China, and South Africa said they supported further political and diplomatic efforts aimed at restoring peace in the region.The BRICS countries reaffirmed strong commitment to the sovereignty, independence, unity and territorial integrity of the Syrian Arab Republic.“We are convinced that there can be no military solution to the Syrian conflict,” they said.The countries called for reforms of the principal organs of the United Nations. “We commit to instil new life into discussions on the reform of the UN Security Council and continue the work to revitalize the General Assembly and strengthen the Economic and Social Council.”The BRICS countries said they will continue working towards strengthening and reforming international governance so that “it is more inclusive, representative, democratic with meaningful and greater participation of developing countries in international decision-making and better attuned to the contemporary realities”.They congratulated India on its election as a member of the UN Security Council for 2021-2022.“Brazil, Russia, China and South Africa extend full support to India for its BRICS Chairmanship in 2021 and the holding of the XIII BRICS Summit,” the declaration said.The declaration said that they recognize “the Victory in the Second World War as our common legacy and pay tribute to all those who fought against fascism, tyranny and militarism, colonialism and for liberation of the colonized, for freedom of nations, and stress the importance of preservation and inadmissibility of desecration or destruction of monuments erected in their remembrance”.“We further urge for a resolute stand against the rehabilitation of Nazi ideology, racism, xenophobia, colonialism and the distortion of history,” they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brics-countries-urge-for-joint-global-effort-to-combat-terrorism/story-N0ISkWuxVvvSVZvNMxTJqI.html
18-11-2020||World||Bad cabling blamed for failed launch of European satellites||Arianespace said Tuesday that wrong cabling was likely to blame for the failed launch of a rocket that was meant to lift two European satellites into orbit.The European Space Agency said the Vega carrier rocket deviated from its trajectory eight minutes after liftoff from Kourou, in French Guiana, late Monday.France-based Arianespace said an initial investigation showed the first stages of the Vega launch vehicle had functioned as planned. When the final stage of the rocket — known as AVUM — ignited, the spacecraft tumbled off course, leading to a “loss of mission,” it said.“A problem related to the integration of the fourth-stage AVUM nozzle activation system is the most likely cause of the loss of control of the launcher,” Arianespace said.The company’s chief technical officer, Roland Lagier, said data indicated the issue was down to wrongly installed cables in a system controlling the thrusters.He blamed quality control and “a series of human errors,” for the problem.“Arianespace expresses its deepest apologies to the clients and the satellite manufacturers involved in this mission,” the company said.The Vega rocket was carrying Spain’s first Earth observation satellite, called SEOSAT-Ingenio, and TARANIS, a French satellite designed to observe events in the upper atmosphere.Vega is Arianespace’s smallest launch vehicle and produced mainly by Italian aerospace company Avio.A previous Vega launch failure, in July 2019, was attributed to a design flaw.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bad-cabling-blamed-for-failed-launch-of-european-satellites/story-7f2a99PWFjMLN9a1WE1pHK.html
18-11-2020||World||‘Impaired organ’: India slams UNSC on slow pace of reforms||India lashed out again on Monday against the slow pace of UN Security Council reforms - calling the current body an “impaired organ” - expressed deep frustration with the change process that has been on for years without any progress, and raised the possibility of exploring alternative routes.Participation in a UN General Assembly debate on “equitable representation on and increase in the membership of the Security Council”, TS Tirumurti, India’s permanent representative to the UN, also sought to dismiss Pakistan’s India obsession as “Pavlovian”, in response to remarks by its representative, Munir Akram, that India doesn’t deserve a seat on the UNSC - “permanent or even non-permanent”.“I do not wish to waste the time of this assembly by responding to the irrelevant and irresponsible remarks made by the representative of Pakistan, which has become ‘Pavlovian’ whenever India is mentioned,” Tirumurti said, adding, “This is a forum for serious debate, not frivolous allegations.”India has sought a permanent seat on an expanded and reformed Security Council. Four of the current five permanent members - the US, UK, France and Russia - support its claim. The fifth member is China.The Security Council is the top decision making body for the United Nations and deals with issues ranging from disputes between countries to terrorism and even the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. The 15-member body has five permanent and 10 non-permanent members, each with two-year terms. While the number of permanent members has remained unchanged since the founding of the United Nations 75 years ago in 1945, the number of non-permanent members, on the other hand, grew from the original six to 10 in 1965. While there is a broad consensus for reforming the Security Council, some countries - loosely called the Coffee Club - have opposed it to block the claims of countries that they believe are their regional rivals. Pakistan is a member of this club. Other members are Argentina, which opposes Brazil’s claim; Italy and Spain, who oppose Germany; and Australia, which opposes Japan.Tirumurti did not name them, but blamed a “handful of countries” for holding up the reforms, to India’s mounting frustration.India has called for the Intergovernmental Negotiations (IGN), as the process to reform the UN Security Council is called, to show more urgency and move the process from annual discussions - which Tirumurti said had become like university debates - to text-based negotiations. India wants the process to adopt a document for negotiations, which could incorporate proposals for discussion, amendments, rejection or adoption.India calls for “text-based negotiations to start”, Tirumurti said. “A text reflecting all positions and proposals from member states will be necessary to make progress”.Experts have long pressed for change at the UN, and pointed to China as the major hurdle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/impaired-organ-india-slams-unsc-on-slow-pace-of-reforms/story-BeZS7MShepESgc7bSngHZL.html
18-11-2020||World||Financially troubled startup helped power Trump campaign||President Donald Trump’s 2020 reelection campaign was powered by a cell phone app that allowed staff to monitor the movements of his millions of supporters, and offered intimate access to their social networks.While the campaign may be winding down, the data strategy is very much alive, and the digital details the app collected can be put to multiple other uses — to fundraise for the president’s future political ventures, stoke Trump’s base, or even build an audience for a new media empire.The app lets Trump’s team communicate directly with the 2.8 million people who downloaded it — more than any other app in a US presidential campaign — and if they gave permission, with their entire contact list as well.Once installed, it can track their behavior on the app and in the physical world, push out headlines, fundraise, sell MAGA merchandise and sync with mass texting operations, according to the app’s privacy policy and user interface.Yet the enterprise software company that built a tool to propel Trump’s mass movement is in financial distress and has received key support from the administration and the president’s campaign, according to interviews with former employees, financial filings and court documents.Austin-based Phunware Inc., whose stock is trading for pennies, recently agreed to pay Uber $4.5 million as part of a settlement over claims of fraudulent advertising and earlier this year risked being delisted from the Nasdaq. In April, the company got a $2.9 million loan under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security Act as it was building the Trump campaign app.Campaign watchdogs and former employees alike marvel at how a struggling startup known more for building apps for hospitals and a Manhattan-based astrologer became a juggernaut in Trump’s reelection bid, facilitating an ongoing data and fundraising effort that threw the company a financial lifeline.While activity on the app slowed recently, the enriched data it gathered on Trump’s supporters, which can include everything from their contacts to their IP addresses to their locations, can serve many purposes going forward, said Adav Noti, a former Federal Election Commission attorney now with the nonpartisan Campaign Legal Center.Congress and the FEC have not set rules governing how campaigns can use people’s personal data and or to whom the campaign can sell its lists, he added.“You can definitely buy the data and the campaign can sell it to you, the trickier question is how much do you have to pay for it,” Noti said.Phunware declined to respond to questions about the app, the company’s financial status, its internal culture and its relationship to the campaign.“Phunware has absolutely no role in the constitutional processes tied to US elections at any level ... and also has no role in the content created or used by our customers specific to our mobile software or enterprise cloud platform for mobile,” CEO Alan Knitowski said in an email.The campaign declined to answer questions about possible future uses for the supporter data it collected via digital platforms, including the Phunware app.“The data is owned by the campaign and limited whatever hit their servers,” said a senior Trump campaign official who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss campaign specifics.As Phunware has hit challenging financial times, it has shed employees, clients and investors, 10 of whom agreed to speak with The Associated Press, some on condition of anonymity because they signed non-disclosure agreements or feared retaliation.Phunware sued its client Uber in 2017, accusing the ride-sharing company of failing to pay its fees, court records show. But after Uber filed suit against Phunware, alleging the software company committed fraud by among other things, allowing ads for the ride-sharing app to show up on porn sites, former employees said the startup looked to diversify its revenue stream.Karl Rove, President George W. Bush’s former advisor, told The Associated Press that he brokered a relationship between Phunware staff and Trump’s 2016 campaign digital director Brad Parscale.“I thought it had lots of implications for politics so in a subsequent conversation I mentioned it to Brad Parscale,” Rove said. “He said ‘interesting’ and that was it, he never told me he had hired them.”Knitowski said in an email that he built the relationship with the campaign.“Phunware met the Trump Campaign through me directly after a 1:1 introduction from a Silicon Valley CEO who requested our consideration and participation in an RFP that also had Salesforce as a finalist,” Knitowski said.By early 2019, after Phunware went public, former colleagues said Knitowski spoke of wanting to court the Trump campaign. In April, 15 percent of Phunware’s staff was laid off under “organizational restructuring and cost reductions,” per a Securities and Exchange Commission filing.In August, there was something new to announce: work with American Made Media Consultants, “otherwise known as the ‘Trump-Pence 2020’ and ‘Keep America Great’ Campaign,” Knitowski said in an earnings call.According to a document filed with Federal Communications Commission two months later, the company’s directors included campaign operations director Sean Dollman and campaign counsel Alex Cannon.Phunware would later reveal more details about its work on the Trump app, which would include location-based tools and other features to help the campaign crowdsource new users. Plus, there would be a gamified loyalty system, where supporters could accumulate points to spend on signed MAGA hats or pose for a picture with Trump.By September 2019, 18 percent of the remaining staff was laid off after client Fox Networks Group left, taking a large percentage of Phunware’s sales with them, according to filings.In April, as coronavirus cases surged, Phunware got a $2.9 million loan from the US Small Business Administration’s Paycheck Protection Program, a relief fund Congress created to help small businesses keep workers employed.Phunware COO Randall Crowder denied political favoritism netted Phunware the loan in a recorded interview.The next month, Nasdaq notified the company it could be delisted over its finances. To stay listed, firms must meet standards to reassure investors that since the initial public offering, they remain a credible company.SEC records reveal that by July, American Made Media Consultants accounted for one-third of all Phunware’s sales, paying Phunware more than $1.6 million in the first half of 2020.As the pandemic kept people home, Trump’s campaign used the app to acquire new users remotely. By mid-November the app hit 2.8 million downloads, according to online data provider Apptopia.That could give the campaign hundreds of millions of phone numbers, enabling it to reach people whose digits were stored in their friends’ contact lists but didn’t consent to being contacted, Apptopia’s CEO Eliran Sapir estimated. A Carnegie Mellon University researcher, however, estimated the total would be near 27 million due to duplicate phone numbers.In a Thursday SEC filing, Phunware suddenly stopped disclosing its top customers by name. But by matching the accounting figures to past filings, AP derived that American Made Media Consultants is Phunware’s largest customer, and paid Phunware $2.4 million over the first 9 months of 2020, accounting for nearly one-third of Phunware’s revenue.Two former employees concurred. The app developer also disclosed sizable debt and expressed “substantial doubt about its ability to continue as a going concern.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/financially-troubled-startup-helped-power-trump-campaign/story-V2F1uO4Oiil2sYKXAUp01I.html
18-11-2020||World||France mulls ban on police images, alarming rights defenders||French lawmakers start debating a security bill Tuesday that would ban the publication of images of police officers with intent to cause them harm, a measure that has provoked outrage from journalist organizations and rights campaigners.Critics, including the United Nations, France’s human rights ombudsman and Reporters Without Borders, say the proposed law would hurt press freedoms.Over a hundred people from journalists’ unions and human rights groups protested Tuesday afternoon in front of the National Assembly in Paris, ahead of the debate that was scheduled to begin in the evening.The Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights at the United Nations expressed fears in a report that the bill “could lead to significant violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms, in particular the right to privacy and the right to freedom of expression.”The proposed law is championed by lawmakers of President Emmanuel Macron’s party, which has a majority at the National Assembly.Its most controversial measure would make it a new criminal offence “to disseminate, by whatever means and on whatever media, with the intent of causing physical or psychological harm, an image of the face or any other element that could identify a police officer.”Offenders would face up to one year in prison and a 45,000-euro ($53,000) fine.Speaking Tuesday at the National Assembly, Interior Minister Gerald Darmanin, who is backing the measure, said the bill aims at preventing “calls for rape” and “murders” of police officers who may be identified on videos.He downplayed any impact for journalists.“Will journalists still be able to film? The answer is yes. Will they be able to broadcast? The answer is yes. Will a citizen be able to film police in action? The answer is yes,” he told lawmakers.But France’s human rights ombudsman, Claire Hedon, said the bill involves “significant risks of undermining fundamental rights,” including press freedom.“The publication of images relating to police interventions are legitimate and necessary for democratic functioning,” she said.Critics are warning that the bill will result in “massive” self-censorship and argue that images posted online help expose police blunders and brutality. They say the measure would endanger journalists and other people filming police in action, especially during violent demonstrations. They also worry how courts will determine whether images were posted with intent to harm.The National Assembly is scheduled to vote next week on the bill, which will then go to the Senate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/france-mulls-ban-on-police-images-alarming-rights-defenders/story-dUMUDCvJ2REhmsKXwALiiK.html
18-11-2020||World||Pandemic politics leave Washington in gridlock as Covid-19 surges||With the nation gripped by a resurgent coronavirus and looking to Washington for help, President Donald Trump and lawmakers in Congress have a message for struggling Americans: Just keep waiting.The urgency of the nationwide surge in virus cases, spiking hospitalizations and increasing death tolls has hardly resonated in the nation’s capital as its leaders are vexed by transition politics and trying to capitalize on the promise of a coming vaccine. The virus has killed more than 247,000 Americans this year and infected at least 11.1 million — some 1 million of them in just the past week.Also Read: Coronavirus curbs return across United StatesYet in Congress, where talks over economic relief bills stalled out months ago, lame-duck approval of aid is hardly front-of-mind. Across town at the White House, Trump is more focused on getting credit for the vaccine development push and blocking President-elect Joe Biden from getting the information needed to ensure the new administration can smoothly take over the fight against the pandemic.“Another Vaccine just announced,” Trump tweeted Monday morning after Moderna announced that its candidate appeared in early testing to be 95% effective against the virus. “For those great ‘historians’, please remember that these great discoveries, which will end the China Plague, all took place on my watch!”On a call Monday with governors, Vice President Mike Pence, who heads the White House coronavirus task force, struck a rosy tone and asked states to give their residents comfort that vaccines are coming and that “America and your state has never been more prepared.”That didn’t stop Louisiana Gov. John Bel Edwards from appealing to Pence and Trump for a more unified message on the importance of social distancing and wearing masks. And Dr. Deborah Birx, the task force coordinator, reported that 27 states were in the “red zone” for widespread transmission of the virus — more widespread and worrisome than spikes seen earlier this year.Biden, who has warned of a “dark winter” ahead on the virus, called for the Trump administration to share its vaccine distribution plans with his own incoming administration, warning that “more people may die if you don’t coordinate.”Saying vaccine plans are vital to repairing the nation’s economy, Biden said, “If we have to wait until Jan. 20 to start that planning, it puts us behind.”Biden said he was hopeful that Trump “will be mildly more enlightened before we get to Jan. 20.” He said he understood Trump’s “reluctance” to admit defeat and share his administration’s plans but called it “a shame.”There’s no progress in Congress yet, either. The split-decision election — in which Democrats absorbed sizable losses in House races despite defeating Trump — hasn’t sparked any progress or prodded House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., or Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., to move from their pre-election postures.Pelosi wants to go big, say $2 trillion; McConnell wants a smaller package in the $500 billion range that his rightward-tilting colleagues can live with. Moving toward somewhere in the middle would be difficult for both camps.Also Read: US logs one million new Covid-19 cases last week, deaths up 12%Trump is a disruptive factor on Capitol Hill and no deal is possible without his buy-in, or at least his signature. Without a better and more reliable signal of Trump’s intentions, both McConnell and Pelosi could be wary of navigating the turbulence required to forge an agreement.The results of the election have also weakened the negotiating position of Pelosi, who played hardball during the weeks leading up to the election, only to come away empty-handed. But she is not — yet — wavering from her insistence on a sweeping and comprehensive relief bill rather than the more targeted approach favored by Republicans.And for now, Pelosi is devoting her energies to soothing her unhappy Democratic caucus in advance of leadership elections this week. It seems like the wrong moment to telegraph concessions to McConnell and the Republicans.The two longstanding adversaries are formidable when their interests align, but their offices say they have not spoken since the election and don’t know when they will. The sole must-pass legislation for the lame-duck session is a temporary spending bill to avert a government shutdown — or a broader governmentwide omnibus funding bill if negotiations go well. Covid relief could be an add-on to either bill.“Frankly, our best chance to get some Covid relief might be to get a regular funding bill and put the most critical pieces of Covid relief on that,” said Sen. Roy Blunt, R-Mo. “There seems to be more interest in trying to move an omnibus package and more serious discussion about that than I’ve heard so far about a Covid package.”The Biden team would like a down payment of Covid relief now and is standing by Pelosi’s handling of the matter.“We have her back in handling this,” incoming Biden chief of staff Ron Klain said Sunday on NBC’s “Meet the Press.” “Our message to Speaker Pelosi is: ‘Keep doing what you’re doing to the Republicans. Let’s get this done.’ I mean, this could be a first example of bipartisan action post the election.”Meanwhile, Trump’s preferred science adviser, Dr. Scott Atlas, stepped up his criticism of governors for moving to reimpose restrictions meant to slow the spread of the virus. On Sunday night, Atlas urged people to “rise up” after Michigan Gov. Gretchen Whitmer announced closures to some schools and businesses in the face of the latest wave of cases.Atlas, who is not an infectious disease expert, earned himself a White House appointment by echoing Trump’s skepticism of mask-wearing and support for “reopening” the economy. Trump has urged supporters to push Whitmer to reopen the state following virus restrictions, though many rules had been lifted previously. And 14 men have been charged in connection with an alleged plot to kidnap the governor.“It’s just incredibly reckless considering everything that has happened, everything that is going on,” Whitmer said. “We really all need to be focused on the public health crisis that is ravaging our country and that poses a very real threat to every one of us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pandemic-politics-leave-washington-in-gridlock-as-covid-19-surges/story-ZOxuPGOvOwvQ7MhqTbZKjM.html
18-11-2020||India||Twitter apologises to House panel for Ladakh map error||Social media company Twitter has furnished a written apology to a joint parliamentary panel for wrongly mapping Ladakh as a part of China, days after the committee’s members slammed the microblogging site and said publishing the incorrect map amounted to an act of treason.Twitter has promised to rectify the error by the end of this month. An affidavit to the joint parliamentary committee on the data protection bill signed by Twitter Inc’s chief privacy officer Damien Karien offered an apology for the wrong geo-tagging of India’s map, panel chairperson Meenakshi Lekhi said on Wednesday.“Twitter has now given us a written apology on an affidavit for Ladakh being shown in China,” Lekhi said, “They have apologised for hurting Indian sentiments and have sworn to correct the error by November 30, 2020.” Speaking to HT, Lekhi said, “People of India and the Government of India take issues related to national security very seriously. While some in the Gupkar alliance may have different dreams, the people of this country and the government of this country won’t allow them to fructify because we are committed to the protection of the integrity and assets of this country, both physical as well as digital.”Her reference was to the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, a group of seven political parties in Jammu & Kashmir that want the restoration of the region’s special status, revoked last year. The alliance has come under fire from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) which has accused it of working against national interest. Last month, a journalist started a live Twitter broadcast from a memorial in Leh and realised that the location said People’s Republic of China. That prompted the secretary of the ministry of electronics and information technology to write to Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey to express the government’s disapproval.Twitter India representatives offered to apologise over the incident before the panel last month but when they said the issue had been resolved keeping in mind India’s sensitivity, members of the panel took exception. Lekhi and Biju Janata Dal (BJD) leader Bhartuhari Mahtab firmly maintained that it was not just about sensitivities but more to do with India’s sovereignty and integrity. The lawmakers insisted on receiving affidavits from companies participating in the proceedings on the proposed law as that would render the replies legally binding. “These are foreign companies talking about a proposed Indian law. That is the reason we sought affidavits as their replies would be legally binding,” said a member of the panel. Twitter didn’t confirm if it had apologised in writing but said on Wednesday, “Earning and maintaining the trust of the people on our service is of the utmost importance. Twitter remains committed to serving and protecting the public conversation and partnering with the Government of India.”Apart from Twitter, Amazon, Google, Facebook and other companies were also asked to submit affidavits with their written replies on the bill. Twitter and most of the other companies have submitted their replies. Over the next two days, the panel will meet representatives of Visa, Mastercard, Paypal and other key payment gateway service providers over the data bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-apologises-to-house-panel-for-ladakh-map-error/story-lMVdBs1GDbiBC5KOIzaoLJ.html
18-11-2020||India||UP child molester used new gadgets to lure victims from poor families: CBI||LUCKNOW/KANPUR An Uttar Pradesh government employee, who is facing charges of sexually abusing 50 children for a decade, used to allegedly target poor families because the victims could be lured with gadgets and electronics, said senior Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) officials on Wednesday.Ram Bhavan Singh, a suspended junior engineer in the state irrigation department posted in Chitrakoot , was arrested by CBI from Banda district on Monday. If found guilty, he faces life imprisonment. He is facing charges under the Information Technology Act, Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code for allegedly sexually exploiting children between 5 and 16, for a decade and selling videos and photographs of sexual abuse on the dark web to paedophiles across the world.The CBI recovered eight mobile phones, around eight lakh rupees in cash, sex toys, laptop, and other digital evidence carrying huge amount of child sexual abuse materials (CSAM), officials said. During examination of the phones and laptop, investigators gathered 66 videos and 610 photographs of children, said a CBI official on condition of anonymity. A second CBI official said Singh targeted children of street vendors, daily wagers, pavement dwellers and domestic helps who worked at his two-room rented house in Chitrakoot, where he lived for 10 years. The children hailed from Banda, Chitrakoot and Hamirpur districts, the official added. “During interrogation, the accused revealed that he targeted children who could easily be lured with money, electronic gadgets, eatables or any other thing they were deprived of. Ram Bhawan believed that he could easily handle the families,” the second official stated. The official said on two occasions in the past 10 years, the children complained about him to their parents, but Singh allegedly hushed up the matter by paying money to the poor parents. The official also explained that Singh hailed from Banda, was posted in neighbouring Chitrakoot district for 11 years and had several relatives from Hamirpur -- three districts where the majority of his alleged victims were from.Singh was produced in a Pocso court in Banda on Wednesday and the court decided to hear the CBI’s plea seeking five-day custody on Thursday. The CBI needs his custody remand in connection with the ongoing physical verification of his alleged victims in three districts of the Bundelkhand region of Uttar Pradesh.The remand application was filed in the court of additional district judge (five) Rizwan Ahmad on Wednesday.CBI counsel Manoj Kumar, Ram Sufal Singh and Jai Prakash Sahu said the agency needed the remand to complete the probe. Singh's counsel Arvind Singh Chandel opposed the plea and said he was not aware of the case fully, nor was he given any documents. The court granted him a day to study the documents. Outside the court, a large crowd gathered to catch a glimpse of the accused. Married for 18 years, Singh allegedly trapped the children by showering affection on them, said a third CBI official. “His relatives could not assess his ulterior motive, thinking he was making up for being childless. Apart from the videos and pictures, the CBI found a number of compact discs and video-making equipment,” added the official. Singh came on the radar of the CBI’s Online Child Sexual Abuse and Exploitation Prevention/Investigation (OCSAE) unit after the agency busted the location of uploading child pornography recently. “A scrutiny of emails of the accused revealed that he was allegedly in constant touch with several individuals (Indian and foreign nationals) for the purpose of sharing CSAM,” said a fourth agency official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-child-molester-used-new-gadgets-to-lure-victims-from-poor-families-cbi/story-7d8BAppMePlLzs7T2V3fhN.html
18-11-2020||India||Jagannath temple administration pitches for mid-December reopening||The managing committee of the 12th century Jagannath temple in Puri on Wednesday requested the Odisha government to allow it to re-open its doors to devotees in mid-December.The temple has been closed to devotees since March 20 following the Covid-19 outbreak and the Rath Yatra was held in June without the presence of any devotees following a last minute order by the Supreme Court. The Nagarjuna Vesha, another important festival of the temple that was last held 26 years ago and is scheduled to be held on November 27, is being planned without devotees.Ajay Kumar Jena, Administrator (development) of Jagannath Temple Administration said the managing committee has recommended opening the temple doors in mid-December after the holy Kartika month ends. “A majority of individuals and organisations had opined for keeping the temple shut for devotees till November 30, the last day of Kartik month. So the managing committee recommended opening by mid-December. It’s up to the government to take a decision,” he said.The temple management’s recommendation came as BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra, who had unsuccessfully contested on a BJP ticket from Puri Lok Sabha seat last year, requested the Odisha government to open the temple for devotees following all SOP. “Let there be no distance between the Lord and his devotees,” he said.Officials said the long closure of the temple has affected its earnings while expenditure has gone up. An annual budget of Rs 154 crore was passed by the temple body at a meeting chaired by Puri king Gajapati Dibyasingh Deb on Tuesday.If the government heeds the request of the Jagannath temple managing committee , it could pave the way for opening of hundreds of other temples in the state. Since November 11, priests of these temples have been protesting the government decision of keeping the temple doors shut by banging gongs and bells.Covid-19 cases in Odisha have fallen sharply in November with daily positivity rates going below 2 though the case fatality rates have gone up over last week. According to the government’s projections, Odisha Covid-19 tally is expected to rise to 3.18 lakh by November 30 and active cases reduce to 7,951 by then. On Wednesday, Odisha posted more than 3 lakh recoveries. Meanwhile, a Public Interest Litigation has been filed in Orissa High Court challenging the State government’s decision to ban the community celebration of Chhath Puja in the state. A person from Brajarajnagar in Jharsuguda district filed the case after the district administration of Jharsuguda banned large congregations of public and mass bathing at river ghats during Chhath Puja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jagannath-temple-administration-pitches-for-mid-december-reopening/story-xEvk1JnQkLX4N8ZTIJg0tM.html
18-11-2020||India||‘We don’t vote, but hear our voices’, Assam children tell parties ahead of polls||As a resident of Majuli, the world’s largest river island, 16-year-old Kuldeep Narayan Bora has seen the devastation erosion can wreck on people living there. Now the teenager wants those in power to know about the issue and find a permanent solution.“I have seen my friends lose their homes to erosion. They were forced to live in tents for months along with their cattle. I want the government to give proper compensation to those affected,” said the Class 10 student who wants to become an audio engineer.Kuldeep is not alone. Ten other children like him from all over Assam are at present gathered in Guwahati to draft a manifesto, which will include problems faced by children and suggest recommendations.The children will meet Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal on November 20 on the occasion of World Children’s Day and hand over their manifesto to him. They will also meet leaders of political parties so that their recommendations are included in manifestoes of parties for the assembly polls due in March-April next year.The effort is part of a campaign called NINEISMINE by PRATYeK, a Delhi-based organization, which recognizes children as primary stakeholders of society and help them know their rights so that they can engage with policy makers to ensure inclusion and implementation of issues concerning children.Rahul Barman, 17, from Tamulmur in Baksa district wants clean classrooms, toilets and drinking water in all schools. Rimjhim Saikia, 13, who is differently abled, wants special schools and special buses for those like her.“My parents work in a tea garden. But their wages are very low and it’s not enough to provide for the entire family. I want the government to set up a factory near my place where my parents can work and earn a decent amount,” said Aditya Kanu, 15, from Derby tea estate in Cachar district.Tulsimoni Ramchiary, 14, lost her mother few days after her birth and her father left her soon after. She wants government to ensure every girl gets equal opportunities in every field.“We are not old enough to vote now, but we will be able to do so in few years. Our problems don’t get highlighted or get sidelined. Through this manifesto, we want to bring them to the notice of those who matter and make them accountable,” said Rahul.Over 4,000 children from across Assam participated in the effort supported by UNICEF. Besides preparing the manifesto, the children, some of whom have come to Guwahati for the first time, are also learning skills like public speaking, audio and video recording etc. during their stay.“This is an initiative where young people advocate for changes based on their ambitions, ideas and dreams centered around their own experiences and situations,” said Steve Rocha, director, PRATYeK.“Our aim is also to keep government accountable to their promises and try and influence policies. Since Assam is heading for elections, we decided to let the children prepare a manifesto and hand it over to political parties before they (the parties) frame their own manifestoes,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-don-t-vote-but-hear-our-voices-assam-children-tell-parties-ahead-of-polls/story-xoTDET7ac2vMQVDs3MLvyM.html
18-11-2020||India||‘What is the meaning of their silence?’ BJP asks Cong to respond to allegations in AgustaWestland scam||The BJP on Wednesday hit out at the Congress for its “silence” over allegations of involvement of its top leaders in the AgustaWestland kickback probe and took a swipe at Rahul Gandhi, saying he tweets on all sort of issues but has not responded to these grave charges. At a press conference, BJP spokesperson Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore demanded that Congress president Sonia Gandhi and her son answer about the allegations levelled against their party leaders. “What do they have to tell about the names of their party leaders being mentioned in the scam? What is the meaning of their silence?” he asked. The BJP has targeted the Congress citing a reported statement of Rajiv Saxena, a key accused in the case, to the Enforcement Directorate in which, it is claimed, he had mentioned the names of former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath’s nephew Ratul Puri and son Bakul Nath, along with Congress leaders Salman Khurshid and Ahmed Patel. Khurshid had said that he cannot respond to the BJP’s claim until he knows the context in which his name has been mentioned by the accused. Taking a swipe at Rahul Gandhi, Rathore said he had often attacked the Modi government over the Rafale fighter aircraft deal despite the Supreme Court giving a clean chit to it but has not spoken a word about the investigation into the alleged corruption in the purchase of the VVIP choppers. The CBI had begun probing the AgustaWestland deal when the UPA government was in power after an investigation in Italy suggested kickbacks in the transaction. Rathore said the then defence minister A K Antony had acknowledged in Parliament that corruption had occurred in the deal. “Scam was the priority” in defence deals when the Congress was in power, he alleged. “People of the country will never forgive the Congress for its corruption in defence deals,” he said. Speaking to reporters, Rathore also attacked the Mamata Banerjee government in West Bengal over alleged violence against BJP workers in the state. PTI KR RT||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-is-the-meaning-of-their-silence-bjp-asks-cong-to-respond-to-allegations-in-agustawestland-scam/story-h0tpZssFv1jULNuSSy5vPI.html
18-11-2020||India||Two men from Kerala arrested with 3 kg gold in north Bengal||Two men from Kerala were arrested and gold worth Rs 2 crore were seized from them by officers of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) at Siliguri in north Bengal on Tuesday, officials said Wednesday. The arrested men, identified as Yusuf and Midlaj, were sent to 15-day judicial custody by a local court on Wednesday. DRI officers seized 30 gold biscuits, weighing about three kilos, from them after intercepting a luxury car they were travelling in, said a DRI lawyer who did not want to be identified. The seizure comes a week after 130 gold bars weighing 21.57 kg were seized near the Bengal-Bihar border. In the November 10 incident, three men were arrested. In both cases, the gold were being smuggled out of Assam and the Siliguri corridor in Darjeeling district was used as the transit route. According to the DRI lawyer mentioned earlier, around 60 kg of gold have been seized from Siliguri since January and more than 20 people have been arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-men-from-kerala-arrested-with-3-kg-gold-in-north-bengal/story-dSHokFHqrnbzjVpYLdqS7L.html
18-11-2020||India||BS Yediyurappa meets JP Nadda but gets no date for cabinet expansion||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on a day-long visit to New Delhi met BJP president JP Nadda but returned with no clear indication on when the much delayed cabinet expansion would take place. “I have informed about the need for cabinet expansion at the earliest. He (Nadda) said that he would discuss and get back in two-three days,” Yediyurappa said after his meeting with Nadda.He was accompanied by deputy CM Govind Karjol.With the bypolls for RR Nagar and Sira over, there has been mounting pressure on Yediyurappa to expand the cabinet. Several former Congress and JD (S) legislators who had crossed over to the BJP and helped it to form government after toppling the coalition government are hoping for ministerial berths. Among them are MTB Nagaraj, AH Vishwanath, R Shankar and Munirathna.The cabinet expansion exercise is an unenviable task for Yediyurappa with ‘loyalist’ BJP MLAs who are upset at being ignored also waiting to be inducted in the council of minsters. Several of them like Umesh Katti, Raju Gowda, Murugesh Nirani, Renukacharya, Thippeswamy and others have publicly declared that they are in the running to become ministers. Asked whether it would be a mere cabinet expansion or restructuring too with some ministers being dropped and others inducted, Yediyurappa said ‘We will have to wait and see what the party high command directs us to do.”Karnataka can have a maximum of 34 ministers including the CM and currently there are seven vacancies. Last week, Yediyurappa had said that the cabinet expansion was postponed further as the party high command was busy with ministry formation in Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bs-yediyurappa-meets-jp-nadda-but-gets-no-date-for-cabinet-expansion/story-9G5Y0N3XFXkxQqpcMpFirI.html
18-11-2020||India||Shocker from Telangana, 40 monkeys allegedly poisoned to death||Miscreants killed around 40 monkeys, including some baby simians, by allegedly poisoning them in Telangana’s Mahabubabad district, police said on Wednesday. The highly decomposed carcasses of the monkeys were found stuffed in gunny bags in the bushes on a hillock behind an electric substation at Sanigapuram village close to Mahabubabad town. Some local villagers who noticed the carcasses after a foul stench, immediately informed the police and the forest authorities. Mahabubabad (Rural) sub-inspector of police Ch Ramesh Babu told Hindustan Times that the incident might have happened around five to six days ago, but came to light only on Wednesday. “It is not only tragic but a dastardly act. We have booked a case under Section 429 (killing and poisoning of animals) of Indian Penal Code, apart from Section 11 (l) of the Prevention of Cruelty towards Animals Act, 1960,” Ramesh Babu said. District forest officer Poloju Krishnamachary said it was shocking to find so many monkeys being killed. “We have never come across such an incident,” he said. The forest officials suspect that it could be the handiwork of some locals, who could not bear the money menace. “We are making inquiries in the surrounding villages as well. We are trying to trace the miscreants with the help of the police. Investigation is on,” the DFO said, adding that the decomposed carcasses of the monkeys were cremated later in the afternoon. He said inquiries by the police revealed that some animal catchers from Rajahmundry in Andhra Pradesh’s East Godavari district had come to Mahabubabad some time ago and their involvement also could not be ruled out. “Generally, these animal catchers use tranquilisers to sedate the wild animals, take them and leave them in forests. Maybe, they had used an overdose of sedation that led to the death of so many monkeys,” the forest official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shocker-from-telangana-40-monkeys-allegedly-poisoned-to-death/story-DJbb7QBqTgIzG5kSExaIiM.html
18-11-2020||India||Sudarshan TV allowed to telecast remaining episodes of ‘Bindas Bol’ but with modifications||The ministry of information and broadcasting has filed an affidavit on Wednesday stating that Sudharshan TV’s ‘Bindas Bol — UPSC Jihad’ is against good tastes and decency. It also attacks religious communities and contains defamatory, deliberate and obscene half truths. The ministry has also cautioned the channel that strict penal action would be taken against it if any violation of any programme code is found in future. The ministry said the channel should review the content of the future episodes of the programme ‘Bindas Bol — UPSC Jihad’. The television channel has so far aired four episodes on September 11, 12, 13 and 14 and there are around six more episodes left to be telecast. Also Read: Supreme Court roasts Sudarshan TV for ‘insidious’ show on UPSC examLawyer Firoz Iqbal Khan filed a petition against the programme in the trailer of which editor-in-chief of Sudarshan News Suresh Chavhanke said there will be big expose on conspiracy to infiltrate Muslims in government service. On September 15, the Supreme Court restrained the channel fro airing the remaining episodes. On September 23, the Centre had informed the Supreme Court that it has prima facie found violation of the programme code by Sudarshan TV’s ‘Bindas Bol’ show and has issued a notice to the channel.An inter-ministerial group viewed all the episodes of the programme and recommended Centre to send a show cause notice to the channel. Replying to the showcause notice, the channel sent a 950-page justification urging the ministry to protect media freedom. It had also said that regular guests and panelists of the channel were receiving death threats. In August, a group of students from Jamia Millia Islamia University had filed a petition following which the Delhi high court stayed the broadcast of the show. It was a pre-telecast ban. The Supreme Court had sought Centre’s input and the ministry at that time gave a go-ahead to broadcast the show.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sudarshan-tv-s-bindas-bol-attacks-religious-communities-says-centre/story-RYEYJSOimVtFUuTDzJR6QK.html
18-11-2020||India||DGCA will take ‘some time’ before deciding on Boeing 737 MAX planes||Aviation watchdog DGCA will study FAA’s decision and take “some time” before taking a final call on allowing Boeing 737 MAX planes to fly again in the Indian skies. The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) of the US on Wednesday paved the way for the MAX aircraft to return to commercial service after a comprehensive and methodical safety review process that stretched for 20 months. In the wake of two fatal crashes involving MAX planes, these aircraft were grounded worldwide in 2019. Joining many other regulators worldwide, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) grounded MAX aircraft in March last year.Also Read: DGCA to take part in Boeing’s pilot training plan for new 737 Max When asked about the next step after FAA cleared the path for resumption of Boeing 737 MAX flights, a senior DGCA official told PTI that the regulator would “study and react. It will take some time.” Only two Indian carriers -- SpiceJet and now-shuttered Jet Airways -- were operating MAX aircraft before they were grounded on safety concerns. SpiceJet has a fleet of 13 such planes that were grounded in March 2019. In 2016-17, SpiceJet had placed an order for up to 205 MAX aircraft. A SpiceJet spokesperson did not offer any immediate comment on FAA’s approval for the MAX planes. While announcing the latest September quarter results on November 11, SpiceJet said it was continuing to incur various costs related to 13 grounded MAX planes. “Despite its inability to undertake revenue operations, the company continues to incur various costs with respect to these aircraft,” the airline said in a regulatory filing on November 11. Citing the costs and the uncertainty in timing of these planes returning to operations, SpiceJet had also said that it has “initiated the process of claims on the aircraft manufacturer towards cost and losses, which are currently under discussion”. MAX planes are fuel-efficient and would help in reducing operational costs. In addition to rescinding the order that grounded the MAX planes, FAA on Wednesday published an Airworthiness Directive specifying design changes that must be made before the aircraft returns to service, issued a Continued Airworthiness Notification to the International Community (CANIC), and published the MAX training requirements. “These actions do not allow the MAX to return immediately to the skies. The FAA must approve 737 MAX pilot training program revisions for each US airline operating the MAX and will retain its authority to issue airworthiness certificates and export certificates of airworthiness for all new 737 MAX aircraft manufactured since the FAA issued the grounding order,” the US watchdog said in a statement.Also Read: India grounds Boeing 737-Max planes, govt-airlines meet underway According to FAA, the design and certification of this aircraft included an unprecedented level of collaborative and independent reviews by aviation authorities around the world. “Those regulators have indicated that Boeing’s design changes, together with the changes to crew procedures and training enhancements, will give them the confidence to validate the aircraft as safe to fly in their respective countries and regions. “Following the return to service, the FAA will continue to work closely with our foreign civil aviation partners to evaluate any potential additional enhancements for the aircraft,” it noted. In a statement, Boeing said FAA has rescinded the order that halted commercial operations of Boeing 737-8s and 737-9s. The move will allow airlines that are under the FAA’s jurisdiction, including those in the US, to take the steps necessary to resume service and Boeing to begin making deliveries, it added. In March 2019, a MAX plane operated by Ethiopian Airlines crashed near Addis Ababa, killing 157 people, including four Indians. In October 2018, a Lion Air-operated 737 Max crashed, leaving 180 people dead in Indonesia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dgca-will-take-some-time-before-deciding-on-boeing-737-max-planes/story-rFrZdD8kosjRhGEFSjyrKP.html
18-11-2020||India||12 civilians injured in grenade attack in south Kashmir’s Pulwama||Twelve civilians were injured when militants hurled a grenade at a CRPF bunker in South Kashmir’s Pulwama district Wednesday evening. The grenade missed the intended target and exploded on the road causing injuries to locals.A police spokesman said militants tossed a grenade on a CRPF bunker at main market Kakapora in Pulwama.“Preliminary investigation revealed that terrorists had hurled a grenade upon a bunker of 41 battalion CRPF at main town Kakapora of Pulwama. However, the grenade missed the intended target and exploded on the road. In this incident 12 civilians received injuries,” the spokesman said.He said senior officers reached the spot to investigate the matter.All the injured civilians were taken to district hospital Pulwama for treatment where their condition is stated to be stable.The police spokesman said that they have registered a case and the investigation into the terror crime is in progress . “The area has been cordoned and search in the area is going on,” he said.So far no group has claimed responsibility for the attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/12-civilians-injured-in-grenade-attack-in-south-kashmir-s-pulwama/story-vx0hEJJnF7LmeykbjQPSqM.html
18-11-2020||India||PM Modi to inaugurate Bengaluru Tech Summit on November 19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi would inaugurate Karnataka’s flagship annual technology event - Bengaluru Tech Summit 2020 (BTS2020) - on Thursday via video-conferencing.The event is to take place from November 19 to 21.It is being organised by the government of Karnataka along with Karnataka Innovation and Technology Society, the state government’s Vision Group on information technology, biotechnology and startup, and Software Technology Parks of India.“We have made elaborate arrangements to make BTS a grand success as the event sessions are going 100 per cent virtual,” Deputy Chief Minister and the Minister for IT, BT and S&T C N Ashwath Narayan said after visiting the BTS2020 facilitating centre set up here.Australia Prime Minister Scott Morrison and Vice-President of Switzerland Guy Parmelin would be among those addressing the virtual event.Over 25 nations are participating in the 23rd edition of the event along with thought leaders, industry captains, technocrats, researchers, innovators, investors, policy- makers and educators from India and different parts of the world, the officials said.“The event will have the participation of more than 200 Indian companies setting up their virtual exhibition, more than 4,000 delegates, 270 speakers, around 75 panel discussions and more than 50,000 participants every day,” an official statement said.This year, the theme of the summit is ‘Next is Now.’ The summit would deliberate on key challenges emerging in the post-pandemic world with a focus on the impact of prominent technologies and innovations on the domains of information technology and electronics and biotechnology.Some of the key focus areas of the summit are aerospace and defence technologies, healthcare, future of work, startup for public good, electronics and semi-conductor, reimagining digital health and “Covid-19 Pandemic Preparedness”, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-bengaluru-tech-summit-on-november-19/story-FE8xNetGrqtuz6kRuezCGP.html
18-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: 72 students in Haryana test positive for coronavirus; state won’t shut all schools and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.72 students in Haryana test Covid-19 positive; State won’t shut all schoolsOnly the schools where Covid-19 positive cases have been detected will remain shut for two weeks, Haryana’s education minister Kanwar Pal said after 72 students of 12 government schools in Haryana’s Rewari tested positive for Covid-19. The testing was done on a random basis as movement has gone up during the festive season. Read More‘Committed to partnering with the Government of India’: Twitter in its apology noteIn a written apology to a key parliamentary panel for wrongly showing Ladakh in China, Twitter on Wednesday said that it was committed to serving the public and earning and maintaining their trust.“Earning and maintaining the trust of the people on our service is of the utmost importance. Read MoreUS Navy plans to revive formation focused on Indian and Pacific oceansThe US Navy plans to revive a tactical formation that will focus on the Indian and Pacific Oceans and work with partners such as India and Singapore to cope with potential contingencies, a top American naval defence official has said. Read MoreLeonid meteor shower to reach peak today: When and where to watchThe Leonid meteor shower which usually takes place in mid-November every year is expected to grace Mumbai’s skies past November 18 midnight. People living in areas with low pollution levels will be able to witness Leonid’s grandeur with their naked eyes. Read More‘Read, and re-read his list of big scalps in IPL 2020’: Mohammed Kaif wants R Ashwin to be in India T20I teamRavichandran Ashwin had a good IPL in the UAE, where he picked up 13 wickets in 15 games for Delhi Capitals and conceded at an economy rate of 7.66. Ashwin got the wickets of some big players which included the likes of Royal Challengers Bangalore captain Virat Kohli. Read MoreGeorge Clooney gave $1 million in cash to 14 of his closest friends after Gravity became a blockbuster: ‘Without them I don’t have any of this’Actor George Clooney took care of his closest friends after he came into a truckload of cash. He gifted 14 of his friends $1 million each after his film Gravity became a runaway box office hit.He said in a recent interview that he had just met his future wife Amal at the time, and didn’t really have anyone but his friends to thank for his success. And so he came up with the plan to invite them over to his house, express his gratitude and hand them bags full of cash. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-72-students-in-haryana-test-positive-for-coronavirus-state-won-t-shut-all-schools-and-all-the-latest-news/story-5SlYQTdwJKGEkOwMZKxMqK.html
18-11-2020||India||RCEP would have hurt India’s economy, FTA with EU not easy: S Jaishankar||India did not join the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) trade deal because it would have had “negative consequences” though the country is interested in a “fair and balanced” free trade pact with the European Union (EU), external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Wednesday. New Delhi had indicated its concerns with RCEP at the East Asia Summit a year ago because a number of key concerns had not been addressed during the prolonged negotiations for the trade deal, Jaishankar said during an online conversation on India-EU relations organised by the Centre for European Policy Studies. “We took a call given that the way (RCEP) is currently, that it is not in our interest to enter this agreement as it would have fairly immediate negative consequences for our own economy,” he said, adding this wasn’t India’s “generic position on trade”. The 10 member states of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean) and Australia, China, Japan, New Zealand and South Korea signed RCEP on Sunday. Japan led the drafting of a ministers’ declaration that left the door open for India to join the world’s largest trading bloc, covering nearly a third of the global economy, at a later stage. Referring to a long-delayed proposal for a free trade agreement (FTA) with EU, Jaishankar said the Indian government had spoken of the need to resume negotiations on this. India, he added, wants a “fair and balanced FTA” with EU. “I recognise that an FTA with Europe is not an easy negotiation. In the world, it must be the most difficult negotiation because it’s a very high standard FTA,” he said. He noted the two sides were looking at various proposals, including a separate agreement on investments or an “early harvest” deal. Jaishankar also highlighted the importance attached by India to mobility agreements with European states to facilitate the movement of skilled professionals. There are about 34 million people of Indian-origin across the world, including almost nine million in West Asia, he pointed out. India wants to ensure mobility or migration is legal to prevent any exploitation of workers, and mobility agreements allow countries to “work out the rules of the game” and eradicate “bad practices”, he said. Jaishankar also spoke of the urgent need to reform the UN, saying: “It’s common sense – after all, in our life, what is it which is 75 years old which you are still using? Everything requires some kind of refreshing (and) updating and we can’t let the interests of one or two countries which want to freeze one moment of history for their perpetual gain to continue.” He added, “The longer we let this stalemate, this gridlock continue – frankly, it’s harming the UN. I don’t think the UN is coming out of this well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rcep-would-have-hurt-india-s-economy-fta-with-eu-not-easy-s-jaishankar/story-jLOwniuthmH8CpYR0CQsoL.html
18-11-2020||India||Hotels must have one isolation room, Goa to issue new SOP||Goa health minister Vishwajit Rane on Wednesday said the government is coming up with a new SOP for hotels as there will be no restrictions for tourists coming in the state. “We are in the process of issuing guidelines for hotels, which will make it mandatory for them to reserve one room as an isolation room on their property,” state health minister Vishwajit Rane said on Wednesday. Any guest who tests positive for coronavirus, but is asymptomatic, can be put up in the isolation room on hotel premises, he stated.Rane was holding a press conference after a meeting with chief minister Pramod Sawant.A Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) is to be developed to ensure all patients, whether mild, moderate or severe, get oxygen on a timely basis, the Health Minister is quoted to have said after the meeting. He added that Anaesthesia technicians are being trained and will be deployed to monitor oxygen supply to patients either in the ward or remotely. Also Read | Goa govt to issue new SOP for hotels amid tourist season, says state health ministerMaintaining that no preferential treatment would be given to anyone, Rane said, hospital beds will be made available to all patients in need.He said nodal officers at Covid-19 hospitals are the final authority on discharging patients.The government has notified GMCH, District Hospital and ESI Hospital, both in Margao, and Sub-District hospital at Ponda as Covid-19 treatment facilitiesThe state health minister assured that the coastal state will not seal its borders to keep out tourists.Rane further said that constant monitoring of patients in home isolation has brought down the Covid-19 mortality rate in the state. “We don’t get patients in a breathless stage any more, as we are monitoring their health in home isolation,” he said.According to the Government of Goa’s online portal, the state currently has 1383 active cases of coronavirus, 667 people have succumbed to it and a total of 44132 have recovered, bringing the total to 46182.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hotels-must-have-one-isolation-room-goa-to-issue-new-sop/story-NK4Y139QYcTRPoCROeUoZM.html
18-11-2020||India||Andhra govt rejects local body poll schedule, sets up face off with SEC||The Andhra Pradesh government on Wednesday rejected the proposal of the state election commission (SEC) to conduct elections to urban and rural local bodies in the state in February citing the possibility of spread of Covid-19. Chief secretary Neelam Sawhney wrote to state election commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar saying there was no possibility of conducting elections to local bodies at this stage, when the state was witnessing high number of active Covid-19 cases and the spread to rural areas had been a matter of grave concern. Ramesh Kumar on Tuesday announced that elections to gram panchayats, block parishads, zilla parishads and municipalities would be held in February, since the intensity of Covid-19 had come down in the state due to effective measures taken by the state government. He pointed out that elections were being held in various other states without any hassles and even in Telangana, elections were being held to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation. “Holding elections is a constitutional necessity. It is also required to secure funds from the Centre under finance commission guidelines for the development of panchayat raj bodies,” he said. The chief secretary, however, dismissed Ramesh Kumar’s argument. “The fact of the matter is that the entire district administration including the police continue to be actively involved in the Covid-19 containment measures,” she said. She also pointed out that it was not correct to compare the Covid-19 situation in Andhra Pradesh with other states, where elections were being conducted, as various states have followed different strategies to deal with the pandemic and have been affected differently. “Hence, we may not let down our guard particularly as the Government of India has warned the states to be wary of the cold/winter months. We cannot afford to have another surge having already lost 6,890 human lives,” the chief secretary said. She suggested that as and when the situation becomes conducive for the conduct of elections to local bodies, the state government would immediately inform the SEC regarding its preparedness.Sawhney also found fault with the SEC for deciding to hold a video conference with the district collectors on the conduct of elections in February. “It is not necessary at present to review the preparedness for conduct of elections,” the chief secretary added. Following the letter from the chief secretary, Ramesh Kumar went to Raj Bhavan to take up the matter with Governor Biswabhushan Harichandan. “The SEC complained to the Governor about lack of cooperation from the state government in the smooth conduct of elections to local bodies,” an official in the SEC familiar with the development said. The Jagan Mohan Reddy government has been in confrontation with the SEC, ever since the latter abruptly postponed the process of elections to local bodies in March amid Covid-19 pandemic. The chief minister directly accused Ramesh Kumar of postponing the elections in collusion with Chandrababu Naidu because both belonged to the same caste. On April 10, the Jagan government removed Ramesh Kumar from the SEC post through an ordinance reducing the tenure of the SEC from five to three years and appointed a retired judge in his place. Ramesh Kumar challenged the ordinance in the high court, which struck down the same on May 29. The state government moved the SC challenging the high court order and after prolonged hearings, the SC upheld the high court judgment on July 31 and asked the government to reinstate Ramesh Kumar as the SEC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-govt-rejects-local-body-poll-schedule-sets-up-face-off-with-sec/story-7zypm8pnf70B7j61JsHhhP.html
18-11-2020||India||Bengaluru riots: NIA conducts searches at 43 locations||Two days after former Bengaluru mayor Sampath Raj was arrested in a case related to communal riots in the city, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) carried out searched at 43 locations, including at four offices of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI), the political wing of Popular Front of India (PFI). The violence took place on August 11. “The cases pertain to large scale rioting armed with lethal weapons causing injuries to police personnel, destruction of public and private property including DJ Halli and KG Halli police stations buildings and public and private vehicles. The riot led to fear and panic in the nearby areas and was intended to cause terror in the society,” the NIA said in a statement. So far, 124 accused have been arrested in the D J Halli police station case and 169 in the KG Halli police station case.During the searches, incriminating material relating to the SDPI and the PFI and weapons such as swords, knives, iron rods were seized, NIA said. On August 11, an angry mob enraged over an alleged insult to the prophet had burnt down more than 60 vehicles as well as DJ Halli and KG Halli police stations apart from the house of Congress legislator Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy. In the subsequent police firing three people were killed. More than 377 people were arrested for the violence and a preliminary charge sheet filed by the police in the case said that intra-party rivalry within Congress was one of the key reasons for riots. Former mayor Sampath Raj and Congress corporator Abdul Zakir were named among the key accused in the charge sheet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-riots-nia-conducts-searches-at-43-locations/story-pebR3iaUZJYKnHJ6FTNDdJ.html
18-11-2020||India||12 injured as militants throw grenade at security personnel in J-K’s Pulwama||Twelve civilians sustained injuries in a grenade attack by militants on a team of security force personnel in Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday, police said.The incident took place in the Kakapora area of Pulwama, a police official said.He said the grenade missed the intended target and exploded on the road.Twelve civilians sustained splinter injuries in the explosion, the official said, adding they were taken to a nearby hospital.The area has been cordoned off and a hunt launched to nab the attackers, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/12-injured-as-militants-throw-grenade-at-security-personnel-in-j-k-s-pulwama/story-jRRIPKjE0xvxgEmE97uppN.html
18-11-2020||India||‘Outsiders are bringing bad name to Bhojpuri industry’||Bhojpuri actor Ritu Singh says that it’s the people outside the industry who are responsible for bringing a bad name to the regional industry. “People who make musical videos for YouTube make vulgar content with double meaning lyrics, cuss words and cheap picturisation for instant fame. Since the videos are in Bhojpuri language it reflects badly on our industry,” she said. The actor is in Lucknow for the mahurat shot of her Bhojpuri film ‘Bablu Sang Babli’ that will be shot for over a month. “I try my best to stay away from vulgarity and choose projects that are clean and family oriented. Film makers are also focusing on making good cinema as Bhojpuri film industry ‘kafi badnaam ho gai hai’. On OTT too we have a lot of vulgar adult content but sadly our industry is looked down upon,” said Ritu who hails from Gorakhpur. Talking about her role she said, “I play struggling artiste Babli who hails from a small town and has a dream of becoming a heroine. It’s a comedy that will show the problems faced by aspiring actors including auditions, casting couch, nepotism, groupism, harassment and the struggling to survive in a new city.” The film is being directed by Lucknowite Deepak Singh. Film’s male lead Gaurav hails from Bhagalpur, Bihar. “Before this I have shot for four films in Lucknow. Last month I shot for ‘Hello Papa’ at a resort on Rae Bareili road. I have done 26 Bhojpuri films so far.” The film also stars Sanjay Pandey, Nandani Pandey, Manmohan Tiwari and Vinod Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/outsiders-are-bringing-bad-name-to-bhojpuri-industry/story-nfLIyaNi5CdOf1LmI94gIO.html
18-11-2020||India||‘I want to do notable roles’||Actor Ishtiyak Khan, known for his roles in ‘Phas Gaye Re Obama,’ ‘Tamasha,’ never thought his love for music would land him into acting. “I was musically trained and used to play music in street dramas in Panna, Bundelkhand. One day the main lead in the play didn’t turn up and things changed for me as I knew all the dialogues and scenes. And after joining theatre in Bhopal and completing an acting course from National School of Drama, I reached Mumbai in search of better prospects,” said the ‘Anaarkali of Aarah’ actor.  Khan feels that for any actor, the right break and a turning point is very essential. “My break was with RGV’s ‘Agyaat’ followed by ‘Phas Gaye…’ where my out-of-the-ordinary English-teacher role made the industry take notice. Also, its memes and short videos became instant hits. But my real turning point came with ‘Anaarkali…’, where I got a character that had multiple shades other than comedy, as I too was keen to try something different.” The diligent actor shot for a series of films including the upcoming Ajay Devgn starrer, ‘Maidaan’, in UP. After rave reviews for his latest release dark comedy ‘Ludo’ Khan waits for his film ‘Shadow of Othello’ to stream on OTT soon, where he plays the lead also he is busy wrapping another feature film in Badlapur. “I’m glad my latest character of a police officer went down well with the audience and I enjoyed playing it too. Otherwise, as an actor, I wish to entertain people always and continue doing notable roles across mediums,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/i-want-to-do-notable-roles/story-dit55HbWooukbOBCBwhUmJ.html
18-11-2020||India||72 students in Haryana test Covid-19 positive; State won’t shut all schools||Only the schools where Covid-19 positive cases have been detected will remain shut for two weeks, Haryana’s education minister Kanwar Pal said after 72 students of 12 government schools in Haryana’s Rewari tested positive for Covid-19. The testing was done on a random basis as movement has gone up during the festive season. “Due to the festive season, there is movement and people are meeting each other so we tested students of 12 schools. We will continue testing students to curb the Covid-19 spread,” Rewari’s nodal officer said.Most of these schools reopened on November 2. But the state government will not shut all schools, education minister said. Random testing at schools will continue. “The schools where Covid-19 cases were reported have been closed for two weeks. Wearing of masks and social distancing norms to be strictly followed. The whole system cannot remain shut due to Covid-19,” the minister said.Early this month, Andhra Pradesh reported a huge number of cases after the schools reopened on November 2. As many as 262 students and about 160 teachers tested positive between November 2 and Novembet 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/72-students-in-haryana-test-covid-19-positive-state-won-t-shut-all-schools/story-Pfo0DKETt2I8tD1LNQcPIP.html
18-11-2020||India||Leonid meteor shower to reach peak today: When and where to watch||The Leonid meteor shower which usually takes place in mid-November every year is expected to grace Mumbai’s skies past November 18 midnight. People living in areas with low pollution levels will be able to witness Leonid’s grandeur with their naked eyes. The shower occurs when planet Earth crosses the orbital path of Comet 55P/Tempel-Tuttle. After the cometary debris enters Earth’s atmosphere and vaporises, one gets to witness the Leonid meteor shower, which peaked yesterday morning. What is the Leonid Meteor showerThe meteor shower that happens at the forefront of the Leo Constellation is known as the Leonid meteor shower. It is one of the most popular meteor showers in the world. 100-200 meteors become visible across the vast skies every year during this shower, with 15-20 meteors raining down on earth every hour. Once in every 33 years the Leonid meteor shower peaks into a meteor storm, the last one to grace earth took place in 1999.Best places to watch the meteor showerParks are usually the best places to watch a meteor shower and winter nights are the best time. The constellations start to look clear and beautiful and celestial bodies become easier to recognize. 10-15 meteors can be seen every hour once the shower reaches its peak. According to the Weather Channel, the whole of India, with the exception of Tamil Nadu and Kerala where widespread rain is expected, will have clear skies to enjoy the celestial marvel.When it comes to meteor showers the darker the sky the better the sight. In cities like Mumbai only 3-4 really bright meteors will be visible but in far-off areas like Karjat and Neral, the skies will be darker and 30-40 meteors per hour will be visible. Remote locations with little pollution are ideally suited for stargazing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leonid-meteor-shower-to-reach-peak-today-when-and-where-to-watch/story-9sdywA2ErHm5nIQSgYfHwI.html
18-11-2020||India||‘Committed to partnering with the Government of India’: Twitter in its apology note||In a written apology to a key parliamentary panel for wrongly showing Ladakh in China, Twitter on Wednesday said that it was committed to serving the public and earning and maintaining their trust.“Earning and maintaining the trust of the people on our service is of the utmost importance. Twitter remains committed to serving and protecting the public conversation and partnering with the Government of India,” Twitter Spokesperson said.According to Parliamentary panel’s chairperson Meenakshi Lekhi, Twitter’s deposition has come in form of an affidavit signed by Damien Karien, Chief Privacy Officer of Twitter Inc. The social media giant has promised to correct the error by the month-end, Lekhi said.“They have apologised for hurting Indian sentiments and have sworn to correct the error by November 30, 2020,” she said, according to news agency PTI.Twitter had shown Leh, the largest town of the Union Territory of Ladakh, as part of China during a live broadcast last month. The Joint Committee of Parliament on Data Protection Bill expressed its disapproval of the “misrepresentation of the map of India”, saying it amounted to treason and had sought an explanation by the US-based parent of the social media platform.Ajay Sawhney, Secretary in the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY), wrote a strongly-worded letter to Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey and asked for respect to the country’s sensitivities, PTI sources in the ministry said. At that time, Twitter had called it a technical issue that had been swiftly resolved.“In the last few weeks, we have worked towards resolving the geo-tag issue in a manner wherein Leh as well as other cities in the Union Territory of Ladakh will now accurately show with their respective city name, state and country,” PTI quoted Twitter in its report. “In addition to this, we are also reviewing the geo-tag for various other cities in Jammu and Kashmir. This work is already in progress and we are targeting November 30, 2020 to complete this exercise,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/committed-to-partnering-with-the-government-of-india-twitter-in-its-apology-note/story-taldBwSqqGwk47pwBOvBpN.html
18-11-2020||India||Mewalal Choudhary doesn’t even know National Anthem, accuses RJD; posts video||A day after raking up the corruption charge against Bihar’s new education minister Mewalal Choudhary, the Rashtriya Janata Dal on Wednesday posted an old video of Choudhary singing Jana Gana Mana in what appears to be a school event. In the video, Choudhary could be seen singing the National Anthem, but he forgets words in between. “Bihar Education Minister Mevalal Chaudhary, accused of several corruption cases, does not even know the national anthem. Do you have any shame left, Nitish Kumar ji? Where have you sunk your conscience?” the RJD tweeted. भ्रष्टाचार के अनेक मामलों के आरोपी बिहार के शिक्षा मंत्री मेवालाल चौधरी को राष्ट्रगान भी नहीं आता।नीतीश कुमार जी शर्म बची है क्या? अंतरात्मा कहाँ डुबा दी? pic.twitter.com/vHYZ8oRUVZIn 2017, Choudhary was sacked from JD(U) for his alleged involvement in a corruption case when he headed the Bihar Agriculture University. “The corrupt JDU MLA Mewalal has been given a ministerial position by Nitish Kumar. This is the double standard of Nitish Kumar, the patron of 60 scams. This man can fall to the lowest level for a chair,” the RJD had tweeted on Tuesday.According to sources, an FIR was lodged against him on February 20, 2017 with the Sabour police station in Bhagalpur on the directives of the then Bihar governor Ram Nath Kovind, who set up a probe committee after several applicants alleged irregularities in appointments. Choudhary was booked under sections 409 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine of forged document) and 120 (B) (conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR) & Election Watch has revealed that not only Choudhary, eight ministers of Nitish Kumar’s new cabinet, including Mewalal, have declared criminal cases including six with declared serious criminal cases against them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rjd-tweets-old-video-of-mewalal-choudhary-singing-national-anthem/story-nZPcvwQR7mwrqGFClrT40M.html
18-11-2020||India||Telangana poll body stops TRS’ cash relief plan for Hyderabad flood victims||The Telangana state election commission on Wednesday stalled the distribution of Rs 10,000 in cash to the families affected by last month’s heavy rains and floods in Hyderabad, in view of the model code of conduct coming into force for the elections to Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) to be held on December 1. The distribution of cash to the flood victims has triggered a controversy with the opposition parties – Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party alleging that the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi was “bribing” the voters of Hyderabad on the pretext of flood relief. SEC secretary M Ashok Kumar wrote to state principal secretary (municipal administration and urban development) stating that since the model code of conduct had come into force for the GHMC elections with immediate effect, the authorities must stop distribution of cash through Mee Seva centres (government-authorised online service centres). The SEC official said the flood relief distribution could be done after the model code of conduct comes to an end. The SEC order came hours after a 70-year old woman died of suffocation while she was standing in a queue before Mee Seva centre at Neknampura under Golkonda police station limits. Early this month, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao ordered distribution of Rs 10,000 in cash to each of the families affected by recent heavy rains and floods in Hyderabad. The chief minister released Rs 550 crore towards this cash distribution scheme and offered to release more based on the requirement. Initially, the cash distribution was done by local TRS leaders who went door to door to pay the money. But the government was forced to stop it following complaints of largescale corruption in cash distribution. There were allegations that the TRS leaders made big money by knocking away part of the cash to be distributed among the flood victims. Later, the government asked the people to register names online at Mee Seva Centres so that the cash could be transferred directly into the accounts of eligible individuals. But this led to further chaos, as thousands of people thronged the Mee Seva centres to submit their claims. Serpentine queues were witnessed at several places, as beneficiaries threw to wind the social distancing norms. There were near stampede situations at some places as the police had tough time in controlling the crowds. The registration process continued till the SEC issued orders asking the authorities to stop the process in view of the model code of conduct. Pradesh Congress Committee working president and Malkajgiri parliamentarian A Revanth Reddy alleged that the decision of the TRS government to distribute cash to the people to garner their votes in the GHMC elections has led to the chaos. “The TRS leaders were only interested in distributing money among the voters, rather than streamlining the flood relief works. The authorities have failed to anticipate the crowds at the Mee Seva centres,” Reddy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-poll-body-stops-trs-cash-relief-plan-for-hyderabad-flood-victims/story-FCftIPwPffISUkMzxRpwdK.html
18-11-2020||India||BRICS calls for fair and equitable distribution of Covid-19 vaccines||Ahead of the WTO taking up a proposal by India and South Africa to waive patent protections for Covid-19 vaccines, the Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (Brics) grouping has said it will work for “fair, equitable and affordable” distribution of vaccines. During the Brics Summit on Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had called on the grouping to back the move by India and South Africa to secure exemption from intellectual property agreements for vaccines. The proposal is already facing opposition from developed countries, including the US and European Union (EU) member states. The Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) Council of the World Trade Organization (WTO) is expected to the take up the proposal for patent protection waivers on Friday, people familiar with developments said on Wednesday. The Moscow Declaration adopted at the conclusion of the Brics Summit said the members of the grouping “will work to ensure that, when [the vaccine is] available, it is disseminated in a fair, equitable and affordable basis”. The declaration didn’t make any direct reference to the proposal by India and South Africa. The declaration recognised the importance of “extensive immunisation” in preventing, containing and stopping the transmission of the Coronavirus, and supported cooperative approaches to expedite research, development and production of vaccine and therapeutics. Participating in an online discussion on Tuesday, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said India will do everything possible to make vaccines affordable and accessible to people around the world. The proposal submitted by India and South Africa to the TRIPS Council on October 2 stated that it is “important for WTO members to work together to ensure that intellectual property rights such as patents, industrial designs, copyright and protection of undisclosed information do not create barriers to the timely access to affordable medical products including vaccines and medicines or to scaling-up of research, development, manufacturing and supply of medical products essential to combat Covid-19”. “As new diagnostics, therapeutics and vaccines for Covid-19 are developed, there are significant concerns how these will be made available promptly, in sufficient quantities and at affordable price to meet global demand,” the proposal further said, adding developing countries could face difficulties in using flexibilities under TRIPS. Among the Brics states, Russia has approved a vaccine though experts say this has been done without adequate testing, and China has granted emergency approval to three vaccines, including one meant only for military personnel. India has three vaccines that are in human trials. Despite the currently strained India-China ties, Chinese President Xi Jinping too offered to work with India on vaccines during the Brics Summit. “Chinese companies are working with their Russian and Brazilian partners on phase-III clinical trials of vaccines and we are prepared to cooperate with South Africa and India as well,” he said. Developing countries are looking to India’s extensive vaccine manufacturing and distribution capacities for help and the government organised a special briefing for the diplomatic corps on November 6 to discuss potential collaboration on vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/brics-calls-for-fair-and-equitable-distribution-of-covid-19-vaccines/story-LrQk6mXrjIc3QhVcyaCtoO.html
18-11-2020||India||Day after Bulandshahr rape victim’s death, her family gets security cover||The family members and the village of a teenage rape victim who girl died Tuesday after allegedly being set ablaze by the rapist’s family in the Jahangirabad area of UP’s Bulandshahr district, have been provided security, officials said Wednesday.The girl was allegedly set on fire by the accused’s family after they failed to convince her family to opt for a compromise in the rape case, officials said.Bulandshahr district magistrate Ravindra Kumar said that security was provided to the girl’s family as they feared a threat to their lives from supporters of the accused. The police have arrested five out of the seven persons named by the girl’s family in their complaint. Raids were on to arrest the remaining two, he added. The police had registered a case of murder against seven family members of the rape accused and their supporters on the complaint of the girl’s family on Tuesday evening.The district magistrate said immediate compensation of Rs 3.75 lakh was paid to the family under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and further compensation would be released as per the law.Kumar and senior superintendent of police S K Singh visited the aggrieved family on Wednesday. Kumar said the family demanded adequate security and requested for arrangements to bring the body to the village for the last rites.The DM said officials were in touch with authorities at the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital in New Delhi where the girl died during treatment on Tuesday evening.“An ambulance has been kept ready in the hospital to bring the body to the village immediately after the post-mortem examination,” said Kumar.He further said the SSP had made “adequate” security arrangements for the last rites.Three of the accused were arrested on Tuesday and two on Wednesday.An orchard caretaker had allegedly raped the girl on August 15 and the police had arrested him the same day. His family members were pressuring the girl’s family for a compromise ever since. The uncle of the jailed rape accused reportedly set the girl afire on Tuesday morning after they failed to convince the family for a compromise. The girl succumbed to burns on late Tuesday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-after-bulandshahr-rape-victim-s-death-her-family-gets-security-cover/story-LD6fAKdMgueQ3IAailoBmN.html
18-11-2020||India||‘BJP working on ground to defeat Mamata Banerjee, over 83% polling booths already covered’: Dilip Ghosh||The Bharatiya Janata Party(BJP) has expanded its presence to over 83 per cent of polling booths in West Bengal and is relentlessly working on the ground to defeat the Mamata Banerjee-led the All India Trinamool Congress(TMC)in the upcoming assembly polls, with Amit Shah and J P Nadda galvanising the rank and file with their regular visits, party state president Dilip Ghosh said on Wednesday.The BJP has kick-started its campaign for the assembly elections slated for early next year and is challenging the Trinamool Congress at the hustings with the new slogan of “Ei baar Bangla, parle samla (Now it’s Bengal’s turn, hold on to it if you can)”, Ghosh told PTI, referring to the recent victory of the National Democratic Alliance(NDA) in Bihar polls.In the upcoming election in West Bengal it will be a direct fight between the BJP and the TMC, he said, dubbing both the Left parties and the Congress as spent forces.Hinting at defections of TMC leaders to his party ahead of the polls, Ghosh said that even leaders of the Mamata Banerjee-led party are feeling suffocated and looking for “oxygen of freedom”, whereas the BJP is a democratic party with “a number of oxygen cylinders”. Ghosh said that for effective management of the party’s campaign, the BJP has divided the state in five zones -- Medinipur, north Bengal, Kolkata, Nabadwip and Rahr Bongo, on the basis of local issues and their characteristics.The party has expanded its footprint in the state and now has presence in over 65,000 (or over 83 per cent) polling booths out of the total 78,000, he said. National party leaders, including J P Nadda and Amit Shah, will visit the state every month. “Amit Shah-ji is expected to visit the state every month and his presence will boost the morale of party workers,” he added. Though the BJP has a marginal presence in the Assembly, it has emerged as the main challenger to the TMC in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, pushing aside the Left parties and the Congress. It won 18 of the 42 Lok Sabha seats in the state, only four less that the TMC’s 22. The party has now focused on winning the state from the TMC. Election to the 294-member state assembly is scheduled to be held in the first half of 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-working-on-ground-to-defeat-mamata-banerjee-over-83-polling-booths-already-covered-dilip-ghosh/story-nHQ4X4EfEtorbgKEmDRauL.html
18-11-2020||India||‘Elections during my term will be held on time,’ says Sunil Arora||After conducting Bihar assembly election amid Covid-19 pandemic, the election commission is now busy in its internal exercises for the assembly election slated to be held in early 2021. Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora’s term is till April 13, 2021. “Whichever election falls before that shall be held on time,” Arora said in an interview to PTI. Elections are due in Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Assam and Puducherry in May and June next year.The commission never rests, the CEC said adding that conducting elections is a continuous process. Holding Bihar election amid the pandemic was a challenge which the Election Commission faced with flying colours. The EC’s decidion to not postponed the elections was courted with doubts and apprehension.“This time, a major component as added to it -- it should also be a safe election. Safe for the electors, safe for the polling officials, safe for all concerned. Maybe proving is not the right nuance. Yes, Election Commission can rise to any challenge and it did rise up to the challenge of Covid-19... Of course, critics may remain, and should also remain as they are also a part of the system,” Arora said.The commission had taken a variety of measures such as reducing the number of voters per polling station from 1,500 to 1,000 to ensure distancing. This meant an addition of 33,000 polling stations. Bihar this time had 1.06 lakh polling stations, which also prolonged the counting process. (With PTI Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elections-during-my-term-will-be-held-on-time-says-sunil-arora/story-1iYyk8qNADB21TPLymabIP.html
18-11-2020||India||‘Diverse, vibrant, intellectual’: President Kovind at JNU’s annual convocation||President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday addressed the 4th annual convocation of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) through a video message and hailed the University for producing many eminent personalities. He told students that they were privileged to be a part of one of the most diverse, vibrant and intellectual communities and added that they were lucky to be guided by some of the greatest minds.“From among the over 80,000 former students of JNU, many have been making their impact in India and abroad through contribution in the Civil Services, academia, politics, social work, science and technology, media and communications, fine arts and business-leadership,” the president said.He referred to finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and minister of external affairs Subrahmanyam Jaishankar, both former students of JNU, in his speech. “It must be a matter of pride for students of the University that India’s Finance Minister @nsitharaman and Minister of External Affairs @DrSJaishankar are former students of JNU,” the president said.The president also congratulated the University for receiving the highest National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) accreditation status this year.“It gives me pleasure to note that JNU has received the highest-ranking grade from National Assessment and Accreditation Council. It is consistently ranked number 2 among all the Universities under the National Institutional Ranking Framework of the Government of India,” he said.Universities like JNU should be at the forefront of developing specific hand-holding mechanisms and promoting innovation among students, the president said, encouraging students to create an “original body of knowledge which is utilised for dealing with contemporary global challenges”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/diverse-vibrant-intellectual-president-kovind-addresses-4th-annual-convocation-of-jnu/story-7D8wpgNpcLY1Hg1yGP60QO.html
18-11-2020||India||Delhi HC junks plea against Chhath Puja ban, puts right to health first||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday refused to entertain a plea which had challenged the Delhi government’s decision of banning Chhath Puja celebrations at public places like ponds and riverbanks in the city due to the Covid-19 pandemic.While dismissing the plea, a bench 0f Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad, remarked that “it appears the petitioner is not alive to Covid-19 situation in Delhi” and “any such permission if granted would necessarily result in such function turning into a super spreader”.“The right to health must be respected first. The person has to live to be able to practice any religion,” the bench while hearing a plea by Durga Jan Seva Trust, challenging the November 10 order of chairman of Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) to not allow any gathering in public places for Chhath Puja on November 20.The petition had also sought permission to hold a gathering of 1,000 people for Chhath Puja.However, this did not go down well with the court which remarked, “Oh really! Today when the Delhi government is not allowing marriages with over 50 persons, you want only 1,000 persons.” It said that the authorities have passed the order after considering the spread of infection in Delhi and the petition was meritless.“In today’s day and time, such a petition is belied by the ground reality,” the court said while noting that the petitioner should have taken into consideration the current circumstances in the city.“The infection rate is hovering between 7,800 to 8,593… the death rate is in double figures. There are 42,000 active cases,” it noted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-junks-plea-against-chhath-puja-ban-puts-right-to-health-first/story-nNgzOvyEHC6MC64PcbEVvK.html
18-11-2020||India||BJP’s national leaders to oversee upcoming local elections in several states||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is pulling out all the stops for the upcoming local elections and has deputed its senior leaders to oversee preparations for them in Telangana and Jammu & Kashmir. Local elections will also be held in Kerala in December though the party is yet to announce the in-charge for them.On Wednesday, BJP’s national general secretary Bhupendra Yadav was in Hyderabad to hold the first round of meetings to steer the party‘s campaign for the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation polls. Yadav, who is also a Rajya Sabha MP, was in charge of the recently concluded assembly elections in Bihar, where the party won 72 seats and retained power with its National Democratic Alliance allies.Apart from Yadav, junior finance minister Anurag Thakur has also been deputed to oversee the local polls in Jammu & Kashmir.Also Read: Ahead of 2021 West Bengal polls, BJP tasks top office-bearers to submit ‘ground report’ on strategy needed to winThe appointments of senior leaders such as Yadav, who was earlier also in-charge of the Gujarat elections, and Thakur is seen as an indication of the BJP’s determination to expand its footprint to the regions where it is still not considered a key player. Thakur will be assisted by former Union minister Shahnawaz Hussain and lawmaker Sanjay Bhatia.“These elections are crucial because these are regions where the party hopes to establish itself as a serious contender,” said a party functionary, who did not wish to be named.The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation elections will be held on December 1. The BJP, which is in a celebratory mood after winning the bypoll to Telangana’s Dubbak assembly constituency, is hoping to carve out space for itself in the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS)’s bastion.Yadav said the party is serious about contesting the local elections as it wants to strengthen its presence on the ground.“Telangana is a state where the BJP will form the government. The TRS has misruled the state and people are looking for a change. There are about 27 assembly constituencies and four Lok Sabha constituencies that fall under the... [Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation] and we want to give a good governance model to the people. By giving good governance at the local body level, democracy becomes effective at the grassroots level,” he said.The BJP last month contested the local body elections in Ladakh, where it failed to maintain its previous record. In 2015, the BJP won 18 out of the 26 seats in the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council. It retained only 15 of these in 2020. The Congress improved its tally by winning nine seats, four more than the previous election.The local body elections in Jammu & Kashmir later this month are being held after the nullification of Article 370. They are crucial for the party as it will be up against a coalition of seven regional parties known as the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD).According to a second party functionary, the BJP wants to spare no effort to emerge as the single largest party as it wants to be seen as the “only credible option”.“The narrative peddled by the regional parties has to change. They have been part of the democratic space and yet speak the language of secession or treating Jammu & Kashmir as separate from the rest of India, which is unacceptable,” said the second functionary.On Tuesday, Union home minister Amit Shah lashed out at the PAGD for allegedly seeking help from other counties to restore Article 370 that gave the erstwhile state special status.Political commentator Sandeep Shastri said the BJP’s strategy of having senior leaders helm local elections is a reflection of the fact that the party is geared 24X7 to challenge its opponents.“The distinction is clear. While the opposition seems to have lost the appetite to win, the BJP has the hunger to come to power at all levels.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-s-national-leaders-to-oversee-upcoming-local-elections-in-several-states/story-P98oJFbPIjIWV4YeblmgEO.html
18-11-2020||India||‘Twitter has apologised in writing for ‘Ladakh in China’ error,’ says Meenakshi Lekhi||Social media giant Twitter has apologised in writing to a key parliamentary panel for wrongly showing Ladakh in China and has promised to correct the error by the month-end, the committee’s chairperson Meenakshi Lekhi said on Wednesday. Twitter’s deposition has come in form of an affidavit signed by Damien Karien, Chief Privacy Officer of Twitter Inc, for wrong geo-tagging of India’s map, Lekhi told PTI.Also Read: Twitter lands in hot water after J-K displayed as territory of China Last month, the Joint Committee of Parliament on Data Protection Bill had come down heavily on Twitter for showing Ladakh as part of China, saying it amounted to treason and had sought an explanation by the US-based parent of the social media platform in form of an affidavit. Appearing before the panel, chaired by Lekhi, representatives of Twitter India had “begged apology”, but they were told by the members that it was a criminal offence that questioned the sovereignty of the country and an affidavit must be submitted by Twitter Inc, not by its ‘marketing arm’ Twitter India. “Twitter has now given us a written apology on an affidavit for Ladakh being shown in China,” Lekhi said. “They have apologised for hurting Indian sentiments and have sworn to correct the error by November 30, 2020,” she added. Twitter had come under heavy criticism and faced a backlash from social media users after its geotagging feature displayed “Jammu & Kashmir, the People’s Republic of China” in a live broadcast from Leh’s Hall of Fame, a war memorial for fallen soldiers in the Union Territory of Ladakh.Also Read: Geotagging issue resolved, says Twitter after J-K shown as part of China The Indian government on October 22 had warned Twitter about its location setting that showed Leh in China, saying any disrespect towards the country’s sovereignty and integrity is totally unacceptable. In a strongly-worded letter, Ajay Sawhney, Secretary in the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY), asked Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey to respect the country’s sensitivities, sources in the ministry had said. At that time, Twitter had called it a technical issue that had been swiftly resolved. In its affidavit submitted before the parliamentary panel, Twitter is believed to have said the issue was “caused due to a software error combined with imperfect data resulting in an incorrect geo-tag”. “In the last few weeks, we have worked towards resolving the geo-tag issue in a manner wherein Leh as well as other cities in the Union Territory of Ladakh will now accurately show with their respective city name, state and country. “In addition to this, we are also reviewing the geo-tag for various other cities in Jammu and Kashmir. This work is already in progress and we are targeting November 30, 2020 to complete this exercise,” it added. Twitter further said it wanted to reiterate that India was a priority market and it was committed to partnering with the Government of India and MeitY to serve the public conversation and communities on the micro-blogging site. “Our team in India will continue to engage with the Ministry for any follow-up discussions. We would also like to apologise for any sentiments that were hurt because of this error,” it added. On October 28, Twitter’s India representatives were questioned for more than two hours by the panel members, mainly on Ladakh being shown as part of China on the Twitter app. “The committee was of the unanimous opinion that Twitter’s explanation on showing Ladakh as part of China was inadequate,” Lekhi had said after the meeting. Twitter was also asked about its banning policy, while some members also raised questions about Twitter’s transparency policy and its actions during elections, especially vis-a-vis their policies in other countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-has-apologised-in-writing-for-ladakh-in-china-error-meenakshi-lekhi/story-PDj4qY2yRpuHDiux6Rp7AN.html
18-11-2020||India||Former Kerala minister arrested from hospital in flyover graft case||The Kerala vigilance and anti-corruption bureau on Wednesday arrested former public works department minister V K Ebrahim Kunju in connection with alleged irregularities in the construction of a flyover in Kochi. Kunju (68), a Muslim MLA MLA from Kalamssery in Ernakulam district was arrested from a hospital after vigilance officials met the doctors treating him. For now, he will remain in hospital, officials said.Earlier In the morning, investigators raided his house in Aluva in Kochi. Kunju was earlier booked by the vigilance department after serious irregularities were found in the construction of the Palarivattom flyover. The flyover which was completed in 2016 was built at a cost of Rs 47.7 crore on National Highway 66 Bypass. It was closed for traffic in May after cracks appeared in some of the pillars and girders. Later engineering experts from IIT-Madras found that its design was faulty and low-quality materials were used to build the 750-metre long bridge. The government then approached Metro Man E Sreedharan and he also favoured demolition of the flyover to build a new one. Now the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation is rebuilding the flyover under the supervision of Sreedharan. A case was registered by the vigilance department which arrested former PWD secretary TO Sooraj and three others in August in connection with alleged irregularities. After his arrest Sooraj, a controversial IAS officer, said he was made a scapegoat. Though Kunju was interrogated a couple of times he was let off. Sooraj is now out on bail.The three others who were arrested along with Sooraj were Sumii Goyal, maging director of construction firm RDS Projects Ltd, Benny Paul of Kitco, technical consultant and P D Thankacchan of GM of Roads and Birdges Development Corporation of Kerala Kunju’s arrest on Wednesday has kicked off a controversy. The opposition Congress and Muslim League said it was politically motivated and was intended to distract attention from the gold smuggling and drug cases. “It was a politically motivated move. The government which is neck deep in corruption wanted to save its face somehow,” said opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala.But CPI(M) state secretary A Vijayaraghavan said the arrest was a natural process after the investigation. He denied opposition charge that it was a politically motivated move in the midst of local body polls.Interestingly state secretary of ruling CPI(M) Kodiyeri Balakrishnan was forced to proceed on leave last week after his son was allegedly involved in Bengaluru drug haul while Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s former secretary M Sivasankar continues to be in jail in connection with the gold smuggling case. The faulty flyover also triggered a blame game between the opposition UDF and ruling LDF (Left Democratic Front). The ruling coalition said the previous government was responsible for the mess but the UDF claimed the present dispensation had given the fitness certificate and inaugurated the flyover with much fanfare. “When we left the power only 60 per cent of the work was over and rest 40 was done during the present regime. The arrest of Kunju was intended to save the face of the rotten government,” said Muslim League leader P K Kunhalikutty. He said the party will rally behind Kunju who is the second MLA to be arrested recently after M C Kamaruddin, a lawmaker from north Keralaiwho was sent to jail in connection with an alleged jewellery fund embezzlement case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-kerala-minister-arrested-from-hospital-in-flyover-graft-case/story-hwn9Obz4pjShnduF7s7zcK.html
18-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: On Ajit Pawar’s ‘united Maharashtra’ comment, Yediyurappa says ‘Marathis belong to us too’ and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Marathis belong to us too’: Yediyurappa on Ajit Pawar’s ‘united Maharashtra’ commentStoking the 70-year-long border dispute between Maharashtra and Karnataka over areas like Belgaum, Karwar and Nipani, Mahrashtra deputy chief minister and Karnataka chief minister locked horns on Wednesday. Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar was first to begin as he broached the issue, paying tributes to Balasaheb Thackeray. Read moreIndian-American Arun Majumdar may find place in Biden’s ‘diverse cabinet’As president-elect Joe Biden along with vice president-elect Kamala Harris aim to make a “diverse cabinet”, media reports suggest that Arun Majumdar could be a part of the administration’s cabinet. Read moreShakib Al Hasan threatened case: Bangladesh Home Minister says strong action will be taken - ReportBangladesh’s Home Minister Asaduzzaman Khan has said that strong action will be taken against the person who had allegedly issued death threats to Bangladeshi all-rounder Shakib Al Hasan for inaugurating a Kali puja pandal in Kolkata. Read moreRenault reveals showcar version of sub-compact SUV Kiger, India launch soonRenault has officially named its upcoming sub-compact SUV as Kiger and is preparing it to enter the lucrative but closely-contested segment which features the likes of Maruti Suzuki Vitara Brezza, Hyundai Venue, Mahindra XUV300, the newly-launched Sonet from Kia and Urban Cruiser from Toyota as well as the upcoming Nissan Magnite. Read moreStep inside Shah Rukh Khan and Gauri’s luxurious Delhi home which is filled with photos of kids Aryan, AbRam, SuhanaActor Shah Rukh Khan and his interior designer wife Gauri Khan are opening the doors to the Delhi home for a lucky winner of a contest. Gauri, in partnership with a travel brand, is letting fans get a peek inside her home in the city’s Panchsheel Park. Read more‘Butterfly baby’: Dad uses sweet pillow trick to wake up kid. WatchCue your “awws” because this is a video which will make you say the word several times as it’s absolutely adorable. It captures a heartwarming moment between a dad and his kid. Shared on Instagram, the video shows the father using an unusual pillow trick to wake up his sleepy toddler. Watch Watch: After polls, protests erupt in Gilgit-Baltistan against Imran Khan’s PTIMassive protests have broken out in Gilgit-Baltistan region against Imran Khan’s party PTI over alleged rigging of polls. Major opposition parties including the Pakistan People’s Party led by Bilawal Bhutto Zardari and & the PML-N of former PM Nawaz Sharif have been protesting against the government over the issue. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-on-ajit-pawar-s-united-maharashtra-comment-yediyurappa-says-marathis-belong-to-us-too-and-all-the-latest-news/story-lGA4vUMgTEwOtQVJXhVVMO.html
18-11-2020||India||Chhattisgarh starts process of framing rules to implement PESA Act||The Chhattisgarh government has started the process to frame the rules to implement the Provisions of the Panchayats (Extension to Scheduled Areas) Act, 1996 or PESA Act. Chhattisgarh’s panchayat and rural development minister TS Singhdeo on Wednesday met tribal leaders and other representatives of panchayats in Kanker district to discuss framing of rules for PESA Act. Singhdeo told HT that after consultation, the rules will be tabled in the assembly in the budget or monsoon session for notification. Since the PESA Act was passed, six states – Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Maharashtra and Gujarat – have made rules while Chhattisgarh , Odisha, Madhya Pradesh and Jharkhand have yet to do so for implementation of the Act. “The Cabinet’s consent will be taken before the notification by state assembly,” said Singhdeo . “ The rules will focus on empowering gram sabhas. Secondly, their ‘cultural identity’ will be protected through these rules. The management of gramb sabha for mining consultation etc; will also be taken under consideration...The idea is to strengthen gram sabhas through these rules,” he said.Activists and tribal leaders believe that it is welcome step by the state government and the rules should be framed as soon as possible. “Not having exclusive rules for PESA in the state is like having a boat without rudder. The excuse that necessary legislative action has been incorporated to implement PESA is a half-truth. Having separate legislative tool to monitor, supervise and execute provisions of PESA is a must. However, those states which drafted the PESA rules have also watered down the spirit by adding several absurd clauses,” Vijendra Ajnabi, a member of Chhattisgarh Van Adhikar Manch, said. The convener of Chhattisgarh Bachao Andolan , Alok Shukla, said PESA Act was enacted to empower the gram sabha, but sadly even after 25 years, its rules were yet to be made. “Because of this , continuous violation of this law is being done across the state and country. Till now, only six states have made rules and Chhattisgarh government starting the process is a welcome step. Although the law is in force, the administration has been misusing it, citing the absence of rules...This Act is about decentralisation of power but nobody wants the gram sabha to be empowered,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-starts-process-of-framing-rules-to-implement-panchayat-act/story-RYh0ZvZ027XEsgaGNk0IbL.html
18-11-2020||India||Indian Army establishes living facilities for troops deployed in eastern Ladakh||The Indian Army said on Wednesday that it has completed establishment of habitat facilities for all troops deployed in eastern Ladakh to ensure operational efficiency in the harsh winter months.The Army said that apart from smart camps with integrated facilities which have been built over the years, additional state-of-the-art habitats with integrated arrangements for electricity, water, heating facilities, health and hygiene have been recently created to accommodate the troops.“Troops in frontline are accommodated in heated tents as per tactical considerations of their deployment. In addition, adequate civil infrastructure has also been identified to cater for any emergent requirements,” it said.The region sees temperature dipping to minus 30-40 degrees Celsius and experiences up to 40 feet of snowfall after the month of November. In addition, road access to the region also get affected for a brief period of time, it said.Also Read | Army completes setting up of modern habitat for troops in Ladakh “In order to ensure operational efficiency of troops deployed in winters, Indian Army has completed establishment of habitat facilities for all troops deployed in the sector,” the Army said. India and China are locked in a military standoff since early May in eastern Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-establishes-living-facilities-for-troops-deployed-in-eastern-ladakh/story-9Sc6fXCbRjSQkEsHwo8IIN.html
18-11-2020||India||‘Only 1,000 persons?’ Delhi HC expresses surprise over Chhath Puja plea||Amid the sudden surge of Covid-19 cases in Delhi, which has called for Centre’s intervention and bringing back a number of restrictions, Durga Jan Seva Trust moved the high court challenging the Delhi government’s order banning any gathering on Chhath Puja on November 20. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority on November 10 had issued an order barring any gathering on the occasion of Chhath Puja, after cases in the Capital started to gallop starting from October last week. A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad dismissed the petition and expressed surprise that at this point of time such a petition can be filed. The bench also said it would not interfere with the AAP government’s decision to ban Chhath Puja celebrations at public places like ponds and riverbanks.“Oh really! Today when the Delhi government is not allowing marriages with over 50 persons, you want only 1,000 persons. How come?” the bench said, as it struck down the petition as “meritless”. The high court said the third wave of the infection was already underway in the national capital and allowing a large gathering would result in people becoming “super spreaders”. “In today’s day and time, such a petition is belied by the ground reality,” the bench said, adding that the petitioner should have taken into consideration the current circumstances in the city. The high court said it appeared that the petitioner is not alive to the Covid-19 situation.“The infection rate is hovering between 7,800 to 8,593… the death rate is in double figures. There are 42,000 active cases,” it noted.(With PTI Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-1-000-persons-delhi-hc-expresses-surprise-over-chhath-puja-plea/story-RImLm7PIqs9VV1Ha2qpoRO.html
18-11-2020||India||3 buildings worth Rs500 crore forfeited in Iqbal Mirchi case: ED||Three buildings worth Rs 500 crore were forfeited under Smugglers and Foreign Exchange Manipulators Act, 1976 (SAFEMA) after the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday revealed that drug dealer Iqbal Mirchi, close aid of gangster Dawood Ibrahim, misrepresented about the ownership of these buildings.“The investigation conducted by ED revealed that, in 2005 Iqbal Mirchi, in connivance with Sir Mohamed Yusuf Trust, misrepresented about the ownership of these buildings before the Competent Authority (SAFEMA/NDPS Act),” the ED said in a press release. “Relying on the evidence shared by Enforcement Directorate, Competent Authority (SAFEMA/NDPS Act) has forfeited three buildings — Rabia Mansion, Mariam Lodge & Sea View, all situated at Worli, Mumbai. The value of the properties is approximately Rs 500 Crores,” the agency added.All transactions made around these properties were declared null and void, the order stated, adding that the properties were falsely claimed by a trust before competent authorities on the pretext that since Iqbal Mirchi had not made complete payment, it had not handed over possession to him. On the basis of the above explanation, the properties were released from attachment under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act in 2005. On November 6, 2019, the ED investigated into the case and informed the competent authority of the fraud, sharing definite and undeniable evidence of ownership of these properties by Iqbal Mirchi, the press release stated.“The evidence include complete payment receipts issued by the trust along with the corresponding entry in the bank passbook, letter issued by trust regarding handing over the possession to Iqbal Memon, submissions to Income tax admitting sale of these properties, etc,” the release stated.“In the fresh order, the competent authority has now observed that the order dated 11.03.2005 was obtained through fraud, wilful suppression of documentary evidence and facts and is therefore non-est order in eyes of law. The Competent Authority further observed that the trust concealed vital evidence and facts regarding the ownership of these properties,” the press release added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-buildings-worth-rs500-crore-forfeited-in-iqbal-mirchi-case-ed/story-lwaTuyc377eIhc9YcTDmiI.html
18-11-2020||India||Failing repeatedly, Congress joined PAGD ahead of district development council polls: BJP||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday said that following repeated drubbing in elections, the Congress has joined the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) ahead of the district development council polls (DDC) in Jammu and Kashmir. Union minister Anurag Thakur, who reached Jammu late on Tuesday to campaign for the party, said, “Due to repeated defeats, the Congress is at its wit’s end and doesn’t know what to do. Its alliance with Gupkar Gang proves beyond doubt that it is seeking support from those (NC and PDP) who, in turn, are seeking the support of China and Pakistan to bring back Article 370.” Thakur added that Congress’s presence in the PAGD raises serious questions. “Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi should tell the people of this nation whether Congress’s ideology and thinking matches with that of the Gupkar gang or its repeated defeats have compelled the party to become a member,” he said. Also read | We have electoral arrangement, don’t fully endorse Gupkar agenda: Congress“After Pulwama attack, Rahul Gandhi raised questions on the India Army and the government but he and his party were exposed when a Pakistani minister admitted that Pulwama was a big achievement of Imran Khan government,” he said. Thakur said that Congress will be exposed again and the nation will see how the party was playing into the hands of those who conspire to defame India. In contrast, he said, the BJP will reach out to the people with its achievements. “In 2019, we revoked Articles 370 and 35-A and ensured basic rights to STs, Valmikis, Gurkhas, West Pakistan refugees and women. We don’t make fake promises like Congress,” he said. BJP’s national general secretary Tarun Chugh, who has also arrived here in run-up to the DDC polls, alleged, “J&K Congress president GA Mir met the Gupkar Gang and it was all being done on the directions of Sonia and Rahul Gandhi.”. “We have rid J&K of plunderers by revoking Articles 370 and 35-A. Today, they have formed a gang and there’s a sister who says she will not hold aloft the tricolour..there’s an elderly person who talks of taking China’s help to restore Article 370 and another feels that one night, China will come and restore Article 370... but their shops are shut. ..Abdullah & sons, Mufti & sons won’t work anymore. For the past over seven decades, their three generations looted and plundered J&K. Now people will elect their own representatives,” said Chugh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/failing-repeatedly-congress-joined-pagd-ahead-of-district-development-council-polls-bjp/story-l6pmNA1egBBHdoeizdT4bM.html
18-11-2020||India||Opposition questions deferment of Tripura ADC polls||Tripura governor Ramesh Kumar Bais extended his administrative rule over Tripura Tribal Areas Autonomous District Council (TTAADC) for another six months as the polls could not be held amidst Covid-19 pandemic. It happened six months after ADC polls were deferred since March due to the rise in the number of Covid-19 positive cases.“.....due to the persistence of Covid situation in the State, it shall not be possible to conduct General Election to constitute the new Council immediately.... , “ a notice signed by the governor reads. The ADC was dissolved on May 17 this year and the governor took charge of the ADC till the elections as per law. His tenure expired on Tuesday. GK Rao was appointed as executive officer to implement decisions and run the ADC on the governor’s behalf. The ADC has 30 seats, of which 28 are elected and two are nominated. ADC chief executive member and also a veteran CPM leader Radhacharan Debbarma asked, “If elections can be held in Assam’s Bodo Territorial Council and in Bihar, why elections can’t be held here?”Congress vice president Tapas Dey said, “It seems that the BJP is giving (party) time to regain ground in the ADC areas and also trying to handle their internal dispute with their alliance partner IPFT.” BJP didn’t react to the governor’s decision yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-questions-deferment-of-tripura-adc-polls/story-zNAvoZBlmGoRMPHgnmWwyO.html
18-11-2020||India||Goa govt to issue new SOP for hotels amid tourist season, says state health minister||The Goa government is drawing up a new standard operating procedure (SOP) for hotels amid the ongoing tourist season, state health minister Vishwajit Rane said on Wednesday.Speaking to reporters after a meeting with Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, Rane said that coastal state will not seal its borders to keep out tourists.“We are in the process of issuing guidelines for hotels, which will make it mandatory for them to reserve one room as an isolation room on their property,” the minister said.Any guest who tests positive for coronavirus, but is asymptomatic, can be put up in the isolation room on hotel premises, he said.Rane further said that constant monitoring of patients in home isolation has brought down the Covid-19 mortality rate in the state.“We don’t get patients in a breathless stage any more, as we are monitoring their health in home isolation,” he said.Referring to Aam Aadmi Party leader Raghav Chadha’s statement about poor health infrastructure in Goa, Rane offered a tour of the state-run Goa Medical College and Hospital to show the robust infrastructure put in place by the Goa government.“People in Delhi have to pay for their treatment, while Goa is the only state that provides free treatment for Covid-19,” he said. PTI RPS ARU ARU||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-govt-to-issue-new-sop-for-hotels-amid-tourist-season-says-state-health-minister/story-JijUZgPLJsfeW2w4AKJKvL.html
18-11-2020||India||Phase 3 trial of Covaxin to begin in Haryana on Nov 20, minister Anil Vij offers to be first volunteer||Haryana home minister Anil Vij on Wednesday announced that the third phase trial of Covaxin, Bharat Biotech International Limited’s potential vaccine candidate against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), will begin on Friday in the state. Vij also offered to be the first volunteer for the vaccine trial.“Trial for third phase of Covaxin a coronavirus vaccine product of Bhart Biotech to start in Haryana on 20th November. I have offered myself as first volunteer to get vaccinated,” the minister wrote on Twitter.Bharat Biotech has begun the Phase 3 clinical trials of Covaxin with 26,000 participants across 22 sites in the country, the pharma firm had said on Monday. The Hyderabad-based drug maker is conducting the trial in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).“The Phase III trials will involve 26,000 volunteers across India, conducted in partnership with ICMR. It is the largest clinical trial conducted for a Covid-19 vaccine in India. This is India’s first phase 3 efficacy study for a Covid-19 vaccine, and the largest phase III efficacy trial ever conducted in India,” Bharat Biotech said in a statement.The trial has been registered with the clinical trials registry of India and approved by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI).Click here for complete coronavirus coverage In Haryana, Pandit Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences in Rohtak and ESIC hospital in Faridabad have been identified among those sites across the country where trials will be conducted, according to Bharat Biotech’s statement.Trial volunteers, above the age of 18, will receive two intramuscular injections, about 28 days apart. “Participants will be randomly assigned to receive Covaxin or placebo. The trial is double-blinded, such that the investigators, the participants and the company will not be aware of who is assigned to which group,” the pharma firm said.Covaxin has been evaluated in 1,000 subjects in phase I and phase II clinical trials, with promising safety and immunogenicity data, the statement added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/phase-3-trial-of-covaxin-to-begin-in-haryana-on-nov-20-minister-anil-vij-offers-to-be-first-volunteer/story-R0MrMiISIKO1yg2dShdaAJ.html
18-11-2020||India||SC takes note of petitions challenging foreign minister S Jaishankar’s election to Rajya Sabha||The Supreme Court on Wednesday issued notices on a batch of petitions challenging the election of External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar to Rajya Sabha from Gujarat. The pleas have also raised the issue of Election Commission’s power on issuance of separate notifications for holding by-polls for casual and regular vacancies in Rajya Sabha. One of the petitions against Jaishankar has been filed by Congress leader Gaurav Pandya. A bench comprising Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian took note of the submissions of senior advocate Kapil Sibal that a date be fixed for hearing these matters. “We will give you short date and it will be listed on non miscellaneous day ,” the bench said in a hearing conducted via video conferencing.Senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for Jaishankar, accepted the notice.Earlier, the top court had said that it would like to give an authoritative pronouncement on the issue of EC’s power on issuance of separate notifications for holding by-polls for regular and casual elections to fill vacancies in Rajya Sabha.The pleas pertained to 2019 Rajya Sabha by-poll on two seats from Gujarat and both seats were won by BJP candidates. Earlier, the apex court had said that there was no authoritative judgement of the Supreme Court as to whether the election to more than one vacancy should be held separately or jointly.The Gujarat High Court, on February 4, had dismissed the plea of Congress leader Gaurav Pandya against Jaishankar’s election to the Rajya Sabha.It had also dismissed two other petitions filed by Congress leaders Chandrikaben Chudasama and Pareshkumar Dhanani against the election of BJP candidate Jugalji Thakore.Chandrikaben Chudasama and Pareshkumar Dhanani have also moved the apex court against High Court order dismissing their election petitions against Thakore.Both Jaishankar and Thakore were elected to Rajya Sabha on July 5 last year in by-polls held on seats vacated by Union ministers Amit Shah and Smriti Irani.Jaishankar and Thakore had defeated Congress candidates Pandya and Chudasama respectively in the bypolls.The Congress leaders had moved the high court, challenging the election on the ground that the Election Commission’s notifications, treating the two vacant seats to be of different categories and requiring by-polls to be held separately, were “illegal and in violation of provisions of the Constitution, the Representation of People (RP) Act, 1951 and the Conduct of Election Rules, 1961”.The high court had dismissed the petitions saying the petitioners failed to disclose the cause of action under the provisions of the RP Act relating to the grounds for declaring an election void.It had also said the petitioners failed to point out any provision of the Constitution or the RP Act requiring the EC to hold a single by-election for filling up all casual vacancies.           “The non-compliance of provisions of the Constitution or provisions of the said (RP) Act constituting the cause of action has to be specifically pleaded, and the interpretation of the petitioner of a particular provision of Constitution or of the Act in a particular manner cannot be termed as the noncompliance of such provision for the purpose of challenging the election,” the high court had said.Jaishankar and Thakore had contended before the high court that the EC broke no rules by holding separate elections for two seats and it has been a consistent practice by the poll panel since 2009 to issue separate notifications for holding by-polls for casual vacancies in the Rajya Sabha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-takes-note-of-petitions-challenging-foreign-minister-s-jaishankar-s-election-to-rajya-sabha/story-nbXHCCo8PyxqzkEhXlmO4N.html
18-11-2020||India||Ahead of 2021 West Bengal polls, BJP tasks top office-bearers to submit ‘ground report’ on strategy needed to win||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has sent its top office-bearers to tour West Bengal and submit a ground report on the strategy needed to usurp power from the Mamata Banerjee government in the 2021 Assembly polls. The tours of top office bearers have been finalised after a decision by the party that BJP President JP Nadda and Union Home Minister Amit Shah will visit the state regularly till the Assembly polls to take a stock of the preparations by the state unit. BJP President JP Nadda and national General Secretary (Organisation) BL Santhosh have given the task to the leaders to understand the issues within the state unit and interact with various factions. This is being done in an attempt to send out a message that the Central party leadership is hearing their grievances, while also boosting their morale. The leaders have been asked to compile a detailed report, as per various regions of the state, during their tour. Uttar Banga is being supervised by Harish Dwivedi, national secretary and Shiv Prakash, national joint general secretary (organisation). While Nabadip is being sorted out by national secretary Vinod Tawde and joint general secretary (organisation) Kishor Barman. Kolkata region is being reviewed by Dushyant Gautam, National general secretary and Amitava Chakravorty, state general secretary (organisation).National general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya and national secretary Sunil Deodhar have been asked to submit a detailed report on issues, strengths and weaknesses and areas that can be worked upon to counter state government in Hooghly and Medinipur.While Rarh Banga is being supervised by two national secretaries Vinod Sonkar and Arvind Menon.According to a senior leader, apart from communicating with office bearers and representatives of the party, analysis of district units and probable leaders who can take on the TMC effectively is being worked out.“The unit has witnessed top state leaders fighting with each other. The migration of leaders from TMC had troubled some in the party which led to differences. There have been meetings in Delhi to resolve this. Now, the Central representatives are touring, talking and noting the issues along with many other things to ensure that the BJP wins the elections. Theirs is expected to be a neutral report on which Central leadership can work,” explained a senior leader.The reports are likely to be submitted by November end to party chief JP Nadda. Polls for West Bengal Assembly’s 294 seats are scheduled to be held in the first half of next year. The BJP wants to better its Lok Sabha performance in West Bengal when it was able to secure 18 out of 42 seats in the 2019 general elections. The party has been at loggerheads with the TMC and allegations have been levelled against each other over political violence ahead of the Assembly polls. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-2021-west-bengal-polls-bjp-tasks-top-office-bearers-to-submit-ground-report-on-strategy-needed-to-win/story-nb4s79N9RxD9BvvAch5l8H.html
18-11-2020||India||Not just ML Choudhary, 7 more in Nitish cabinet have criminal cases, says ADR report||While the new Bihar education minister Mewa Lal Choudhary remains under attack for corruption charges during his stint as the vice chancellor of Bihar Agriculture University, Sabour, which had led to lodging of an FIR against him and subsequent suspension from the JD(U); he is not the only one with taint in the Nitish Kumar cabinet.According to the latest study by Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR) & Election Watch, which was released on Wednesday after analysis of the self-sworn affidavits of the 14 ministers sworn into Nitish cabinet, eight (57%) have declared criminal cases including six (43%) with declared serious criminal cases against them.The list of eight includes four from the BJP, two from the JD(U) and one each from the HAM-S and VIP. However, it is Choudhary’s induction in the cabinet that has triggered off an uproar. In 2017, after the FIR was lodged against Choudhary, Nitish Kumar had refused to even meet him.Choudhary, whose name had surfaced in the BAU recruitment scam and an FIR was lodged against him by the order of the Raj Bhawan in a case involving appointment of 161 assistant professors and junior scientists, is the richest of all with declared assets of Rs 12.31 crore. The average assets of the 14 ministers analysed is Rs 3.93 crore.Choudhary has himself declared one criminal case and four serious cases under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against him. Animal husbandry and fisheries minister Mukesh Sahni has declared five criminal cases and three cases of serious nature under the IPC. BJP’s Jibesh Kumar has also declared five criminal cases and four cases of serious nature under the IPC. There are five others who have self-declared criminal cases of varying nature against them.Former deputy chief minister Sushil Kuamr Modi was among those who had sent petitions against Choudhary to the governor in 2017 highlighting the irregularities in the appointment process. Modi had then said that he could arrive at the conclusion of complete arbitrariness in the selection process after talking to a number of candidates.RJD MP and party spokesman Manoj Jha said the choice of Mewa Lal Choudhary as education minister was an indication enough of the CM’s weakened position and why Bihar lost after election results. “He can no more take a high moral ground, which he cited as the reason for walking out of Grand Alliance (GA) in 2017. It is bound to be a big embarrassment for the government in the Vidhan Sabha,” he added.Also Read: Nitish Kumar CM for namesake, says Shiv Sena, predicts his futureRJD leader Tejaswhi Prasad Yadav tweeted, “an absconding accused in corruption case has been made education minister”. “Nitish Kumar’s discourse on crime, corruption and communalism will, however, continue,” he added.An earlier analysis by ADR & Election Watch had found that 163 (68%) out of the 241 newly-elected leaders from all parties had declared criminal cases. This is higher than the last time. Out of 243 MLAs analysed during Bihar Assembly elections in 2015, 142 (58%) had declared criminal cases against themselves. Out of that, 123 (51%) MLAs declared serious criminal cases this year, compared to 98 five years ago, said the report.Also Read: Bihari NRIs congratulate Nitish Kumar, offer help in development of stateThis year, 19 candidates have declared murder cases against themselves, while 31 reported attempt to murder cases and eight reported cases of crime against women.With a large number of tainted candidates again winning the election, it shows compliance to the Election Commission (EC) guidelines in the light of the Supreme Court order to rein in such trend remains a distant dream. The EC directive had sought greater accountability from political parties to check the problem of criminalisation of politics.“This is dangerous. It is akin to insulting the mandate. A person facing such serious charges should not be made a minister. What is worse, he has been made education minister. Nitish Kumar is responsible for making such a horrible choice. How can such a man deal with higher education, which is in tatters and needed a man of integrity to pull it out of the rut,” asked social analyst and former head, department of economics, Patna University, NK Choudhary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-just-ml-choudhary-7-more-in-nitish-cabinet-have-criminal-cases-says-adr-report/story-FQRFAYi7IKN0nO3IVRBt2H.html
18-11-2020||India||After court intervention, Maharashtra govt agrees to shift Varavara Rao to Nanavati Hospital||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday agreed to shift jailed poet-activist Varavara Rao to the Nanavati Hospital in Mumbai for treatment for 15 days after Bombay High Court’s intervention, reported news agency PTI.Rao, who has been in jail in connection with the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, had filed a bail application and a writ petition seeking he be shifted to the hospital immediately, owing to his “diminishing neurological and physical health condition”.Earlier in the day, a bench of Justices SS Shinde and Madhav Jamdar of Bombay HC had directed the state to comply and bear the cost of the 81-year-old Telugu poet’s treatment. The court also said that Rao’s family could visit him as per the hospital’s norms.Senior lawyer Indira Jaising, arguing on his behalf, said that Rao’s condition was deteriorating and his family feared he could die if he is not shifted to the hospital. The court sought Rao’s medical report after he is shifted and treated at the Nanavati Hospital and said it will hear the bail plea on December 9. Rao should not be discharged without informing the court, it added.State’s counsel Deepak Thakre told the court that he had taken instructions from Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, who said the state had no objection to shifting Rao to the Nanavati Hospital, PTI reported.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-court-intervention-maharashtra-govt-agrees-to-shift-varavara-rao-to-nanavati-hospital/story-DjeqZmTLy1hZrwkNmUcSGI.html
18-11-2020||India||‘Marathis belong to us too’: Yediyurappa on Ajit Pawar’s ‘united Maharashtra’ comment||Stoking the 70-year-long border dispute between Maharashtra and Karnataka over areas like Belgaum, Karwar and Nipani, Mahrashtra deputy chief minister and Karnataka chief minister locked horns on Wednesday. Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar was first to begin as he broached the issue, paying tributes to Balasaheb Thackeray. Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa slammed Pawar’s statement and said those are meant for “unwanted controversy”.“Late Balasaheb had struggled his entire life for rights of common man. He always dreamt about the overall development of Maharashtra and make a united Maharashtra including Belgaum, Karwar and Nipani. So let us decide to fulfil this dream,” the statement from Ajit Pawar’s office read. It was issued on the occasion of Balasaheb’s death anniversary on November 17.Urging Pawar to not make such statements, Karnataka chief minister said, “Marathi speaking people are just like Kannadigas. They too belong to us. Maratha Development Authority has been formed for their development. Statement is just to trigger unwanted controversy. I urge him not to make such statements.” Maharashtra claims Belgaum and the other areas which are part of Karnataka as they were part of Bombay Presidency. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had appointed Chhagan Bhujbal and Eknath Shinde to look into the legal cases concerning the border dispute.  When I was @CMofKarnataka, Anna Bhagya, Ksheera Bhagya, & other programs were implemented. These were not intended to divide people on caste or language.@BSYBJP has been neglecting these pro-people programs while announcing funds for projects that were not in the budget.6/7Slamming the setting up of Marathi Development Board, which has been announced a few days ago, opposition leader Siddaramaiah said this is a divisive step. “I strongly oppose any decision taken against the interests of Kannadigas. There are many other pressing issues that needs government assistance. @BSYBJP should look into that first to address inequality before hurting the sentiments of Kannadigas,” the former CM tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/marathis-belong-to-us-too-yediyurappa-on-ajit-pawar-s-united-maharashtra-comment/story-fdf6F9szDu82SkOF9hL4RJ.html
18-11-2020||India||Supreme Court reserves order on plea challenging PM Modi’s election to Varanasi seat||The Supreme Court on Wednesday reserved the order on the petition challenging the election of Prime Minister Narendra Modi from the Varanasi parliamentary seat. The plea was filed by sacked Border Security Force (BSF) soldier Tej Bahadur challenging the rejection of his candidature by the returning officer on May 1, 2019.During the Lok Sabha elections last year, the returning officer had held that Bahadur failed to produce a certificate confirming that he was not dismissed from employment by the state on grounds of corruption or disloyalty. He was dismissed from BSF in 2017 after he posted a video online complaining about the quality of food served to the troops.Bahadur claimed that he was not given sufficient time to produce the certificate and the election officer went ahead with dismissing his nomination. On May 1 last year, he approached the Election Commission of India for the certificate but the same could not be obtained. The counsel also argued that Bahadur had earlier filed his nomination as an Independent candidate and later as a candidate of the Samajwadi Party.Bahadur had approached the top court after Allahabad High Court rejected his petition on December 6, 2019, on the ground that he was neither a candidate nor an elector of Varanasi to challenge the election of the Prime Minister.Counsel for Bahadur had circulated a letter for adjournment but the Supreme Court refused to adjourn stating that this matter is being adjourned the third time. “We are hearing you because the respondent is the only office in India. It’s the office of the PM. We don’t want this to be carried on like this,” the court stated. “Why should we grant you liberty for adjournment? You are abusing the process of law. You argue,” a bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde told Bahadur’s counsel.Modi was represented by senior advocate Harish Salve while advocate Pradeep Kumar Yadav appeared on behalf of Bahadur.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-reserves-order-on-plea-challenging-pm-modi-s-election-to-varanasi-seat/story-NeE08YmupOpq7aXZPy3A2I.html
18-11-2020||India||‘No lockdown in Delhi’: Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia assures shopkeepers||Manish Sisodia, Delhi’s deputy chief minister, on Wednesday assured shopkeepers the government will not impose a lockdown after speculation over chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s comments on the issue. Sisodia’s assurance comes a day after Arvind Kejriwal wrote to the Centre seeking permission to shut markets in hotspots, in wake of the spike in Covid-19 cases. He also sought permission to close shops that are not following the Covid-19 protocol mandated by the government.“I would like to assure shopkeepers they do not need to be scared. We don’t intend to impose a lockdown,” Sisodia said, according to news agency ANI. “If needed, regulations will be increased in some markets. That’s what we requested the Centre. But it won’t be a lockdown in any manner,” Sisodia clarified. “We want your shops to remain open. The Delhi government believes that it is not a solution in the fight against Covid-19,” Sisodia said.“The solution is better hospital management and better medical systems. Delhi government has managed the medical system well and will do it in future too,” he also said.Since the last week of October, Delhi has been witnessing a spurt in Covid-19 infections. The daily number of fatalities has also been rising as the city reels under the third wave of Covid-19. As of Tuesday, Delhi has a total of 495,598 cases of Covid-19 infection, including 42,004 active cases, 445,782 recoveries and 7,812 deaths.Meanwhile, the Delhi government put a cap on wedding guests to limit the spread of the viral infection. After the revised order, no more than 50 people can be invited to any wedding in Delhi. Earlier, the limit was set at 200 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-lockdown-in-delhi-deputy-chief-minister-manish-sisodia-assures-shopkeepers/story-jN2Y8jhkttI10IXPDlB98I.html
18-11-2020||India||China increases movement as rifts develop in Nepal Communist Party||With an increased rift inside Nepal Communist Party, the Chinese Ambassador to Nepal Hou Yanqi met Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli on late Tuesday evening and held talks for about two hours.Sources inside the PM residence and Secretariat confirmed that Ambassador Yanqi met Oli late on Tuesday evening and held a discussion for about two hours.“Chinese Ambassador was here last late evening and held discussion with Prime Minister Oli for nearly two hours,” an official from PM Secretariat confirmed ANI on the condition of anonymity.Another source inside Baluwatar confirmed that Yanqi and Oli held a discussion about the unification process of the ruling party and solving ongoing issues inside the party.“They held a discussion about the party matters to keep the party intact and government in form. Ambassador Yanqi stressed to continue negotiation to settle down the disputes and reach consensus,” another source inside Baluwatar known with the talks about meeting confirmed ANI.Dissatisfaction inside the ruling Nepal Communist Party has increased once again with two chairs divided over conveying the Secretariat meeting of the party which is scheduled for Wednesday afternoon.Oli has sent a proposal to co-chair Pushpa Kamal Dahal to postpone the meeting while Dahal has remained firm in holding on to the meeting later in the afternoon.Out of the Nine-membered Secretariat of the ruling NCP, five members namely Dahal, Madhav Nepal, Jhal Nath Khanal, Bamdev Gautam, and Narayan Kaji Shrestha are pressing on for the meeting.Meanwhile, Bishnu Poudel, Ishwar Pokhrel, and Ram Bahadur Thapa along with Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli are loggerheaded to postpone the meeting. In order to avert the meeting scheduled for 1 pm (Local Time), Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli has summoned a cabinet meeting to skip the secretariat meeting.“I have been informed to reach PM residence before 1 pm this afternoon to attend the cabinet meeting. As the meeting was not able to convene on Monday due to Tihar it has been summoned for today,” a minister in Oli led cabinet informed requesting not to be named on the first place.Oli had made attempts to cancel Wednesday’s Secretariat Meeting for which he had sent Bishnu Poudel to convince Dahal and withdraw his political document.In the previous round of Secretariat meeting, Dahal had presented a document where he termed Oli’s activities as “inexcusable” and again demanded his resignation from both the posts terming him inappropriate for the post.Alleging Oli has filed over his promises and agreement earlier signed and brokered Dahal further has pointed Oli of failing to deal with the pandemic leaving everyone in despair and agony.The 19-page document floated by Dahal has directed Oli to make the sacrifice for the constitution, party, and nation for being unable to keep his words by disobeying party decisions, election manifesto, and ignoring good governance.With Oli making efforts to postpone the Secretariat meeting, Dahal on Tuesday had met President Bidhya Devi Bhandari to settle down the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-increases-movement-as-rifts-develop-in-nepal-communist-party/story-1OAzetp9P0T5aPW9v2vrkJ.html
18-11-2020||India||Shift Varavara Rao to Nanavati Hospital from Taloja jail: Bombay HC directs state||Bombay High Court on Wednesday asked the Maharashtra government to shift Varavaro Rao to state-run Nanavati Rao Hospital for 15 days and ordered it to bear the cost of the 81-year-old Telugu poet’s treatment, news agency ANI reported. Rao has been imprisoned in Taloja jail in connection with the Elgar Parishad case.The high court also said that Rao’s family can visit him as per the hospital’s norms, according to ANI.Senior lawyer Indira Jaising argued on his behalf in Bombay High Court in a physical hearing. “He (Varavara Rao) is completely bed-ridden, in diapers, no medical attendant and has a catheter. The catheter was not changed for three months, as there was no one to change it,” she said, according to Live Law.“There is a reasonable apprehension that he (Varavara Rao) will die in custody,” Indira Jaising said today. “I am alleging negligence on the part of the state. If the State is unable to look after him, he needs to be shifted to Nanavati Hospital,” she added.Deepak Thakare, appearing on behalf of the state, had asked for Varavara Rao to be shifted to JJ Hospital, and all required tests to be conducted there. However, Jaising vehemently opposed this suggestion and informed the court that when Rao was admitted to JJ Hospital in July, he sustained head injuries, and was found lying in a pool of urine, with no nurse or attendant nearby.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shift-varavara-rao-to-nanavati-hospital-from-taloja-jail-bombay-hc-directs-state/story-RC5PvHnZKQNx9ZeuaCheON.html
18-11-2020||India||Prakash Javadekar takes jibe at Congress over stand on RCEP||Union Minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Prakash Javadekar on Wednesday took a jibe at Congress party over its leaders’ stand on Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP).In a tweet, Javadekar said internal contradiction and confusion in senior leadership of Congress on RCEP has been exposed .“Internal contradiction and confusion in senior leadership in Congress on critical issues exposed on yet another issue - RCEP. While yesterday @AnandSharmaINC termed India’s decision of not joining RCEP as unfortunate, @Jairam_Ramesh on the other hand endorsed India’s exit from RCEP,” Javadekar said in a tweet. Terming India’s decision of not joining RCEP as unfortunate, Congress leader Anand Sharma in a tweet on Tuesday said, “India’s decision of not joining Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership is unfortunate and ill advised. It is in India’s strategic and economic interests to be a part of the process of Asia-Pacific integration.”“Withdrawal has negated years of persuasive negotiations for India to be accepted as part of RCEP. We could have negotiated safeguards to protect our interests. Keeping out of the RCEP is a backward leap,” he added.Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said, “On Oct 21 2019 I had described India’s imminent membership of RCEP as 3rd jhatka for the economy after demonetisation & botched GST. A year later the position @INCIndia took then in demanding that the PM not drag India into an unfair RCEP, as was being planned, stands vindicated.”In November last year, India decided not to join the RCEP agreement as its key concerns were not addressed. The key reasons behind New Delhi’s decision to remain out of the world’s biggest trade agreement include inadequate protection against import surge, insufficient differential with China, possible circumvention of rules of origin, keeping the base year as 2014 and no credible assurances on market access and non-tariff barriers.The RCEP is a proposed free trade agreement in the Asia-Pacific region between the 10 member states of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) namely, Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, and Vietnam and five of ASEAN’s Free Trade Agreement(FTA) partners -- Australia, China, Japan, New Zealand, and South Korea.In May this year, China said it will welcome India back to negotiations on the RCEP at an appropriate time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prakash-javadekar-takes-jibe-at-congress-over-stand-on-rcep/story-bHV1LruMrawbE9zsC79pEI.html
18-11-2020||India||Amit Shah, Nadda to visit Bengal every month till end of assembly polls: state BJP chief||West Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh on Wednesday said union home minister Amit Shah and party national president J P Nadda will visit the state every month till the end of assembly elections.Elections to the 294-member state assembly are due in April-May next year.The two senior BJP leaders will visit the state separately every month to take stock of the party organisation ahead of the elections.“Amit Shah and J P Nadda will visit the state separately every month till the assembly elections are over.The dates are yet to be finalised. Their regular visits will energise the party workers,” Ghosh told reporters.Shah is likely to visit the state for two consecutive days a month and Nadda for three days, party sources said. Lashing out at the Congress-CPI(M) alliance, Ghosh said both the parties have been rejected by the people of the state long back.“The people of West Bengal have given chances to the Congress, the CPI(M) and the TMC. All the three parties have failed to live up to the expectations of the masses, which will now be fulfilled by the BJP,” he said.Read more | TMC anticipates spurt in fake news ahead of Bengal polls, draws a counterWith an eye on the elections, the BJP on Tuesday divided the state into five organisational zones and put central leaders in charge of them, party sources said. Senior BJP leaders Sunil Deodhar, Vinod Tawde, Dushyant Gautam, Harish Dwivedi and Vinod Sonkar have been handpicked by the party top brass to head the North Bengal, Rarh Banga (south-western districts), Nabadwip, Midnapore and Kolkata organisational zones, they said. Deodhar, Tawde, Gautam and Sonkar are likely to conduct party meetings in their respective zones during the day. BJP national general secretary Dushyant Gautam, who has been given charge of the Kolkata zone, exuded confidence after arriving in the city that the saffron party will come to power in the state in the assembly elections.After having a limited presence in the politically polarised state for decades, the BJP has emerged as the main rival of the ruling Trinamool Congress by winning 18 of the 42 Lok Sabha seats in West Bengal in the 2019 general elections. With the BJP’s strength increasing in the state in the last few years, party leaders have exuded confidence that it will be able to end Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s 10-year rule in the 2021 assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-nadda-to-visit-bengal-every-month-till-end-of-assembly-polls-state-bjp-chief/story-zJmsBlZ0PWAdntq91YoQ7K.html
18-11-2020||India||Delhi congress leaders take out tractor yatra against farm laws||Delhi congress leaders and workers took out a ‘Kissan Adhikar Tractor Yatra’ in rural pockets of north west Delhi on Wednesday, demanding that the Modi government withdraw the farm sector reform laws.The tractor procession started from Kanjhawla and was stopped by the police at Qutubgarh village, alleged party leaders.The “anti-farmer” bills passed by Parliament will hurt and weaken peasants in the country, Delhi Congress president Anil Chaudhary said.“Congress is completely with the farmers to save their interests and demands that the Modi government withdraw the farm laws enacted by its government,” he said.Delhi congress leader Parvez Alam said hundreds of farmers participated in the yatra. He said the 15-km long tractor yatra covering villages from Kanjhawla to Barwala, was stopped by the police at Qutubgarh.Farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws will destroy the minimum support price mechanism, end Agricultural Produce Market Committees and allow corporates to arm-twist them. The government, however, has been saying that these laws will raise farmers’ income, free them from the clutches of the middleman and usher in new technology in farming.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-congress-leaders-take-out-tractor-yatra-against-farm-laws/story-5ivzlDjoA7SqIHVAtqz8SI.html
18-11-2020||India||Army completes setting up of modern habitat for troops in Ladakh||With temperature set to dip substantially in the Ladakh sector in the winter months and no solution to the border row with China in sight, the Indian Army has completed the setting up of modern habitats for thousands of soldiers deployed in forward areas to deal with any misadventure by the People’s Liberation Army, officials familiar with developments said on Wednesday. Temperatures in some places held by the Indian Army can dip to minus 40 degrees Celsius, with the super high-altitude areas also likely to receive several feet of snow (30 to 40 feet) during the peak of winters. Watch: Indian Army sets up modern habitats for troops deployed in Ladakh “Apart from smart camps with integrated facilities which have been built over the years, additional state-of-the-art habitat with arrangements for electricity, water, heating facilities, health and hygiene has been created to accommodate frontline troops. The troops are not lacking anything and prepared to take on any challenge,” said one of the officials cited above. Fresh images emerging from Ladakh on Wednesday provided glimpses of the infrastructure the army has created to support its forward deployed troops at a time talks to resolve the border situation remain deadlocked and both armies are prepared for a long haul in the Ladakh theatre. “Troops in the front line have been accommodated in heated tents as per tactical considerations of their deployment… Adequate civil infrastructure has also been identified to cater for any emergency,” said a second official. India has made vigorous attempts to provide logistics support to its forward deployed soldiers, including the supply of specialised winter clothing from the United States. India has imported more than 15,000 sets of extended cold weather clothing system (ECWCS) from the US, with the emergency supply made by activating the Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Association (LEMOA). India signed the LEMOA, the first of the three foundational agreements proposed by Washington to deepen bilateral military cooperation, with the US in August 2016. The Indian Army and the PLA have held eight rounds of talks to reduce friction along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) without any breakthrough. At the last round of talks on November 6, the two sides said they would ensure that their front line soldiers “exercise restraint and avoid misunderstanding and miscalculation” along the LAC. They also agreed to hold the ninth round of talks between corps commander-ranked officers soon but no date has been fixed for that dialogue yet. India is pushing for comprehensive disengagement at all flashpoints and restoration of status quo ante of early April during the talks. Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat said on November 6 that India will not accept shifting of the LAC in eastern Ladakh even as he did not rule out the possibility of the situation escalating into a larger conflict in the sensitive theatre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-completes-setting-up-of-modern-habitat-for-troops-in-ladakh/story-VOVvUdb4ntl6xTrsSY1RjN.html
18-11-2020||India||Chhath Puja: UP govt urges people to celebrate at home, follow Covid protocol||The Uttar Pradesh government has issued an advisory for Chhath Puja in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, advising people to perform rituals at their homes or nearby, as much as possible. However, the government said that arrangements will be made by the local administration at the traditional spots near rivers/ponds for the puja. People must follow Covid-19 protocols like wearing masks and abide by social distancing, stated the government.Chhath is dedicated to the Sun God and is one of the most popular festivals for the people of Bihar and parts of Uttar Pradesh or Purvanchal. Devotees gather and take a holy dip in rivers, ponds, and other water bodies during the four-day festivities from November 19 to 20.Chhath puja is mainly observed by the people of Bihar, Jharkhand, and bordering areas in Uttar Pradesh, and it will be celebrated on November 20. This year, the main celebration is on November 20 when devotees will offer ‘argha’ to Sun God.Meanwhile, preparations have begun for Chhath Puja in Lucknow’s Hasanganj area and on the banks of the river Ganga in Varanasi.“Only a few devotees have come for preparations of Chhath Puja amid Covid-19. Unlike this year, the place is usually filled with devotees,” a devotee said. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhath-puja-up-govt-urges-people-to-celebrate-at-home-follow-covid-protocol/story-3LavrKBNSU6gjwYKVv6rfL.html
18-11-2020||India||Congress leader Adhir Chowdhury attacks Kapil Sibal over introspection remark||Attacking veteran Congress leader Kapil Sibal over his introspection remark, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, leader of the Congress in Lok Sabha, said that the former union minister was free to join a new party or form one instead of making such embarrassing remarks against the Congress. “He (Sibal) is a senior Congress leader and has the accessibility and proximity to top leaders of the party. He can raise the issues with them instead of making such embarrassing remarks in public. He is free to form a new party or join one if he feels that the Congress is not the right place,” Chowdhury said. Sibal, in a recent interview, had emphasised the need of introspection in the party. The party is on a decline, the former union minister said, in the aftermath of the Congress’ massive drubbing in the recently held Bihar assembly election. Also Read: Bihar debacle reignites calls for introspection in Congress“Earlier too, Sibal has spoken about this. He seems to be very concerned about the Congress and its need for introspection. But he was not seen campaigning for the party in the recent elections in Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, or Gujarat,” said Chowdhury. He added that mere talking will not achieve anything. Speaking without doing anything doesn’t mean introspection. “If he had gone to Bihar and Madhya Pradesh, he could have proved that what he is saying is correct and that he strengthened the position of Congress. Speaking without doing anything doesn’t mean introspection,” Chowdhury added. Chowdhury is not the only leader to have attacked Sibal. Earlier, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot had also lashed out at Sibal, saying the former union minister should not have spoken of the party’s internal issues in the media. He added that this has hurt the sentiments of party workers across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leader-adhir-chowdhury-attacks-kapil-sibal-over-introspection-remark/story-VOvGdlYHpIhvsP5DNqPZWP.html
18-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: ICMR issues advisory for plasma therapy for Covid-19 patients; says indiscriminate use not advisable and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Indiscriminate use not advisable: ICMR’s advisory for plasma therapy for Covid-19 patientsThe Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Wednesday said that indiscriminate use of convalescent plasma therapy (CPT) against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) was not advisable, even as the number of infections across the country breached the 8.9 million mark. Read moreFrom over 3,700 Covid-19 cases to 6,396 in 24 hours: Delhi’s rising numbers explainedDelhi logged nearly double the number of fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Tuesday, according to the bulletin issued by the health department. From 3,797 cases on Monday, Delhi recorded 6,396 infections on Tuesday, taking the infection tally in the national capital to 495,598. While 99 more fatalities pushed the toll to 7,812, the number of active cases of Covid-19 is 42,004, authorities said. Read moreChhath Puja celebrations begin, a million devotees at ghats for Bihar’s biggest festivalThe four-day Chhath Puja celebrations commenced on Wednesday with authorities preparing ghats for devotees to pay obeisance to the Lord Sun from November 20 to 21. Around a million devotees throng ghats for celebrating Bihar’s biggest festival. Read moreKaun Banega Crorepati 12: Can you answer this super difficult Rs 7 crore question that Mohita Sharma could not?Kaun Banega Crorepati found yet another crorepati in Tuesday’s episode. Sadly, she, too, could not bag the jackpot prize money of Rs 7 crore. Mohita Sharma was asked a rather tough 15th question and chose to quit the show with the Rs 1 crore she had won. Read moreWhatsApp’s disappearing messages now available to all usersWhatsApp announced the launch of disappearing messages earlier this month. This feature is now available for all WhatsApp users on Android, iOS and web as well. As the name suggests, messages will disappear from chats once the feature is enabled. Read moreVideo of ‘pizza rat’ in ‘human form’ is viral. Why? Because it’s 2020Do you remember the video of ‘pizza rat’ which went viral a few years ago? If you do, then chances are you are smiling because the clip is absolutely hilarious. In case you haven’t, allow us to explain. Back in 2015, the video became crazy viral because of what it showed - a rat dragging a pizza slice through the stairs of a subway in New York City. Read more‘We’re partnering for bulk production of Covid-19 vaccine’: Indian Envoy to USIndian ambassador to US, Taranjit Singh Sandhu spoke on the priority of Indo-US ties. Sandhu said that President-elect Joe Biden was immediately focusing on the Covid-19 issue. He added that India will be a significant partner for bulk production of vaccines. “We have seen President-elect Biden immediately focusing on Covid issue. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-icmr-issues-advisory-for-plasma-therapy-for-covid-19-patients-says-indiscriminate-use-not-advisable-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Lhin3E8OzXpDNB2BQvq0EN.html
18-11-2020||India||Covid-19: Cipla launches rapid antibody detection kit||India’s leading drug maker, Cipla Limited, on Wednesday announced that it had launched Covi-G for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) antibody detection that gives results within 10 minutes.The kit has a sensitivity and specificity of 92%, which is its ability to detect true negatives and true positive results.The company signed a licensing agreement with a Belgium-based firm, Multi G, for the distribution of their Covid-19 Rapid Antibody test kit, across most emerging markets and Europe. “This licencing agreement is part of Cipla’s efforts to enhance global access to life- saving treatments and diagnostic infrastructure for patients in need,” said the company in a statement.Also read | Indiscriminate use not advisable: ICMR’s advisory for plasma therapy for Covid-19 patientsAs part of the agreement, Cipla will be responsible for distribution of these rapid antibody kits that will be manufactured by MultiG. Marketed under the brand name Covi-G, this is among the earliest antibody kits to declare CE-compliance and is awaiting approval by ICH country regulators It has been commercialised in at least 20 countries already, with sensitivity and specificity exceeding 92%. The kit tests for both IgM and IgG antibodies, using a single-prick blood test. The kit gives results within 10 minutes.“Cipla’s expansive reach, network and partnerships with public health authorities as well as private institutions will help in ensuring the seamless access of these kits across 25+ markets in Asia, Middle-East and North Africa, Latin America, EU and Australia,” their statement further read.Apart from an epidemiological tool for mass screening, this point of care test can also be used to detect patients who have had a suspected asymptomatic or mild infection in the past, identify potential plasma donors and possibly prioritise susceptible populations for vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-cipla-launches-rapid-antibody-detection-kit/story-breLDzhMcbnBZ3XBc5h3hO.html
18-11-2020||India||Nitish Kumar CM for namesake, says Shiv Sena, predicts his future||Two days after Nitish Kumar was sworn in as the Bihar chief minister for the seventh time, Shiv Sena on Wednesday questioned how long will Nitish Kumar ‘endure’ the favour done by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and claimed that he was chief minister of Bihar only for namesake. An editorial in Saamana, the Shiv Sena mouthpiece, said that the majority of the Janata Dal (United) and the BJP alliance in Bihar is slim, while the majority of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi is much stronger and there is no threat of it collapsing.The editorial said that Nitish Kumar said that he did not wish to become the chief minister but he accepted it on BJP’s insistence. “It is proven that Prime Minister Modi has a special love for Bihar as Fadnavis says. Shiv Sena was not given the CM‘s post in Maharashtra because BJP had more seats, (but) they conferred the CM’s crown on a party that slipped to the third spot (in the Bihar election). What generosity! It will be difficult to record this renunciation in politics but how long will Nitish Kumar endure this favour?” it asked. It further added that Nitish was Bihar’s CM only for namesake. “They [BJP] kept their word and made Nitish Kumar the chief minister, which is ok, but the question is if this is a permanent measure... Nitish Kumar will be the chief minister for namesake and he will be forced to resign after humiliation over a period of time,” it said, adding that BJP has made two deputy chief ministers to increase the trouble for Nitish Kumar.Also Read: Chhath Puja celebrations begin, a million devotees at ghats for Bihar’s biggest festival Slamming the BJP leaders, the editorial said that it is laughable to hear them say that the Bihar government will last its full term when they have only three legislators more than the half-way mark required.“Maharashtra government has the majority and legislators. Therefore to say that the Maharashtra government will collapse is like breaking head on a stone wall,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitish-kumar-cm-for-namesake-says-shiv-sena-predicts-his-future/story-VaQswEfvm8cBbtpKbYVfkJ.html
18-11-2020||India||Covid-19 in Delhi: What shopkeepers at Bhagirath Palace market say about lockdown||With the number of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) witnessing a rapid surge in Delhi, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had on Tuesday suggested to the Centre that some markets in the national capital, which might emerge as hotspots in the coming days, be shut down.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageOfficially, the spike in cases, which has been called the “third wave” of the pandemic in the city, was attributed to the festive season as people came out in large numbers to shop.Also Read | ‘3rd wave of Covid-19 has passed its peak in Delhi,’ says health minister Satyendar JainBhagirath Palace marketLocated in Old Delhi, Bhagirath Palace is one of the markets in the national capital which witnessed massive footfall during the festive season, with neither the shopkeepers nor the buyers taking precautionary measures against the virus. Bhagirath Palace is the largest market for medicines and medical goods in north India. If closed for even a few days, the supply of medicines across the region will be affected, according to experts.During the nationwide lockdown, the market was closed twice but not for more than four-five days due to which the supply of medicines was not affected. Also, with thousands of people coming to Bhagirath Palace to purchase medicines, the Delhi Police had banned the entry of vehicles. However, shopkeepers have now opened their shops, with hand sanitisers, masks etc. being sold on both sides of the road.According to shopkeepers in Bhagirath Palace, implementing Covid-19 norms here is “extremely difficult.” This, they say, is because the crowd here is huge and shopkeepers have occupied empty spaces outside their shops because of which the possibility of social distancing in the market is “nil.”Covid-19 in DelhiThe number of daily Covid-19 cases in Delhi has risen exponentially over the last few days. On November 11, the city logged its highest single-day virus count of 8,539. Just a day later, it recorded its highest death toll due to the virus in a single day at 104. With the situation going out of hand, Union home minister Amit Shah chaired a high-level meeting on November 15 and announced a 12-point plan to bring the pandemic under control.Also Read | Daily Covid-19 tests to be increased to over 1 lakh in Delhi, says Arvind KejriwalOn Tuesday, there were 6,396 new Covid-19 cases and 99 related deaths in Delhi, bringing the total number of cases to 495,598 including 7,812 deaths, according to a government bulletin. The government has already ruled out a lockdown in the city.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-in-delhi-what-shopkeepers-at-bhagirath-palace-market-say-about-lockdown/story-bDLOl5RczlJh6TcAlVlkxN.html
18-11-2020||India||Chhath Puja celebrations begin, a million devotees at ghats for Bihar’s biggest festival||The four-day Chhath Puja celebrations commenced on Wednesday with authorities preparing ghats for devotees to pay obeisance to the Lord Sun from November 20 to 21. Around a million devotees throng ghats for celebrating Bihar’s biggest festival.Authorities in Patna have appealed to the devotees to perform the puja at their homes to reduce the number of devotees at ghats in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.Patna district magistrate Kumar Ravi said police have been deployed at ghats and devotees will not be allowed to commute in their personal vehicles to lessen the crowds. “Hence, there will be no parking facilities at the ghats.”Ravi said no private boats will be allowed to ferry devotees during the festival. “As a precautionary measure, we have deployed disaster management teams. ...officials are looking to implement safety standards at Chhath ghats amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Ghats are getting equipped with basic amenities including drinking water, toilets, and lighting facilities. Barricading is being done for social distancing.”The Patna Municipal Corporation has started distributing Ganga jal to encourage the celebration of Chhath at homes in view of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhath-puja-celebrations-begin-a-million-devotees-at-ghats-for-bihar-s-biggest-festival/story-hQpYtMKk3SQN5dAr52T4AK.html
18-11-2020||India||After Delhi, these are the worst Covid-19 hit cities in India||India’s Covid-19 tally surpassed the 8.9 million mark on Wednesday as it added more than 38,000 cases of the coronavirus disease in the last 24 hours. The Union health ministry data showed that 474 Covid-19 patients succumbed to the viral disease, pushing the death toll to 130,993.Meanwhile, the number of active cases remained below 500,000 for the eighth consecutive day. As of Wednesday morning, there were 446,805 active cases of the coronavirus infection in the country. The national recovery rate improved to 93.52%, data showed.Also Read | Increased testing, more beds: How Delhi is planning to fight Covid-19 third waveAs the national tally of the daily coronavirus disease falls, the virus seems to be resurfacing in several states including Delhi which is reeling under the third wave of the pandemic.Here are the five cities that have seen a rising number of Covid-19 cases:DelhiAs of Tuesday evening, Delhi had more than 495,000 cases of Covid-19. The number has been surging since the last week of October when the city breached 5,000-mark of daily cases. It also reported more than 8,000 cases on November 11 which is the highest daily record so far.MumbaiWith a spike of 541 Covid-19 cases, Mumbai on Tuesday reported the highest single-day infections in Maharashtra, which is among the worst-affected states of India. The number of total infections in the metropolis is at 270,654 and its death toll stood at 10,596.KolkataWhile the daily number of Covid-19 cases in West Bengal is falling, Kolkata and other adjacent areas are reporting a major share in the eastern state’s caseload. As of Tuesday, the city had a total of 95,504 cases. The death toll in Kolkata has reached 2,448.AhmedabadWith the addition of 234 new Covid-19 cases, the highest in Gujarat, the tally in Ahmedabad district reached 45,802 on Tuesday. Four people died of the infection, taking the toll to 1,939 in the largest city of Gujarat. With 4.0, the city’s case fatality rate is among the highest in the country.PunePune city on Tuesday saw a rise of 145 Covid-19 infections. The total caseload in the city is over 331,000. The number of fatalities reported in the span of one day was eight, data showed. Pune hit its Covid-19 peak in September, after which the cases have been on a steady decline. However, it has the highest number of total cases and deaths per million as compared to other cities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-delhi-these-are-the-worst-covid-19-hit-cities-in-india/story-zflFS0X1svx1lykfBM1T7I.html
18-11-2020||India||Naveen Patnaik announces Rs 115 cr to script turnaround of former Maoist-hotbed||A little more than two years after announcing a Rs 100 crore scheme for the development of Maoist hotbed of Swabhiman Anchala in Malkangiri district, chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Tuesday announced another Rs 115 crore package for the area. The money is for a mega piped water supply project and for more mobile towers in the area.“Swabhiman Anchal is always in my heart and efforts will continue to make it a developed region. I had announced a Rs 100 crore special package under SETU (Socio-economic Transformation and Upliftment) in 2018. Now, it has been increased to Rs 215 crore,” said Patnaik, while exhorting the Maoists in the area to leave the path of violence and join the mainstream.Patnaik also said each of the households in the nine gram panchayats of Swabhiman Anchala area would get a 4G-enabled smartphone that would aid students’ study-related activities. Four mobile phone towers have been installed in the Swabhiman Anchal while there are plans for another three towers with 4G network in the area.Work on 33×11 kv electrical sub-station will be completed soon and 11 KV 3 phase line connection will be provided to all the residents. A total of Rs 100 crore will be spent for construction of concrete roads in all villages, 78 km tarred road and seven bridges in the area. A mega drinking piped water supply project at the cost of Rs 20 crore has been started while work for as many as 250 tube wells was completed. For irrigation, Rs 32 crore will be spent on 43 lift irrigation projects and 419 cluster deep bore wells. It will provide irrigation to 1700 hectares of land, said a government communiqué.Also Read: 35-year-old man arrested for rape and murder of 5-year-old girl in OdishaEarlier known as the Cut-off area for its geographical isolation following the building of Balimela reservoir, the Swabhiman Anchala was essentially a cluster of around 151 villages in Malkangiri’s Chitrakonda block that had turned into a bastion of the Maoists over the last 20 years. As the deep waters of Balimela reservoir separated the area from Malkangiri district, security forces found it difficult to approach the area. The construction of a 910 m long bridge in July 2018 at Janbai village over Gurupriya river ended the isolation.The area for long has been a theatre of violence beginning with the killing of 38 Greyhound policemen of Andhra Pradesh anti-Maoist force, who were sunk to death in the Balimela reservoir while returning after a three-day combing operation. In February 2011, erstwhile district collector of Malkangiri, R Vineel Krishna was abducted by Maoists from the Cut-off area, but released eight days later. In October 2016, at least 30 Maoists were killed in the Cut-off area in one of the biggest anti-Maoist encounters in the country. Though Maoist presence has decreased now, security forces in the area are now recovering several landmines and arms from Moaist hideouts during combing operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/naveen-patnaik-announces-rs-115-cr-to-script-turnaround-of-former-maoist-hotbed/story-luiG0t702PGEj6jo3VH43H.html
18-11-2020||India||Indiscriminate use not advisable: ICMR’s advisory for plasma therapy for Covid-19 patients||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Wednesday said that indiscriminate use of convalescent plasma therapy (CPT) against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) was not advisable, even as the number of infections across the country breached the 8.9 million mark.The top medical body conducted an open-label phase II multicentre randomised controlled trial (PLACID trial) in the country across 39 public and private hospitals on the use of CPT in the management of cases with moderate Covid-19 infection. The therapy involves the use of plasma from people who have recovered from the infection to aid the immune response of those still fighting it.The study has concluded that the therapy “did not lead to a reduction in progression to severe Covid-19 or all-cause mortality in the group that received CPT as compared to the group that did not receive CPT”, ICMR said.PLACID is the world’s largest pragmatic trial on CPT conducted in 464 moderately ill confirmed Covid-19 affected adults in a real-world setting wherein no benefit of use of CPT could be established, the top medical body added.ICMR’s statement comes at a time when there are 8,912,907 confirmed cases of the viral infection. Of them 446,805 are active cases, 8,335,109 have recovered and 130,993 fatalities have been recorded due to the viral disease.Before this, doctors at New Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) had also advised against the overuse of experimental therapies. Dr Manish Soneja, an additional professor from AIIMS’ department of medicine, had said that randomised control trials did not show benefits of anti-malarial drug Hydroxychloroquine, Remdesivir, or convalescent plasma therapy.A similar study by ICMR, published in the peer-reviewed British Medical Journal, in October had also found no benefits of convalescent plasma therapy for Covid-19 patients. It found that the outcomes were almost the same for the two groups -- 235 who received two doses of convalescent plasma and 229 who received the standard care. The therapy did not prevent progression to severe disease, it said.According to ICMR, similar studies conducted in China and the Netherlands have also documented no significant benefit of CPT in improving the clinical outcomes of hospitalised Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indiscriminate-use-not-advisable-icmr-s-advisory-for-plasma-therapy-for-covid-19-patients/story-P5tcjfYaILYsw2hrHbQuMN.html
18-11-2020||India||From over 3,700 Covid-19 cases to 6,396 in 24 hours: Delhi’s rising numbers explained||Delhi logged nearly double the number of fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Tuesday, according to the bulletin issued by the health department. From 3,797 cases on Monday, Delhi recorded 6,396 infections on Tuesday, taking the infection tally in the national capital to 495,598. While 99 more fatalities pushed the toll to 7,812, the number of active cases of Covid-19 is 42,004, authorities said.The health department bulletin showed these cases came out of the 49,031 tests conducted the previous day, while the positivity rate stood at 13.04 per cent amid the festive season and rising pollution in the city. The highest single-day spike till date at 8,593 cases was recorded on November 11 when 85 fatalities were also reported. Delhi witnessed a sudden spike in coronavirus disease cases since October 28 when the daily rise breached the 5,000-mark for the first time.What does the daily increase in cases say?The spike in everyday cases points that the city is facing a third wave of the infection and the Delhi government has also agreed to the same. Compared to the last two waves, Delhi saw nearly twice the number of cases in the third. In the first 15 days of October, the average number of cases reported daily in Delhi was 2,754. Between October 15 and October 31, this average shot up to 4,104. In the first 12 days of November, this average was 6,693. Over the past three days, there has been an average of around 3,100 new cases per day, but the number of tests has also fallen from around 58,000 per day to around 25,000 per day because of Diwali, Bhai Dooj and the weekend.Read more | Random rapid tests for commuters going to Noida from Delhi What about the positivity rate?Positivity rate in Delhi has consistently been above 11 per cent for the past two weeks –– crossing 15 per cent on some days. This had fallen to 6 per cent in September.Why is Delhi witnessing a spike in cases?Experts were already expecting this increase, keeping in mind the festival season. Even the health ministry has pointed out that the spike could be due to the festive season, the opening of essential services and allowing the movement of people.What has the Delhi government done?Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has sent a proposal to Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal seeking to withdraw the relaxation given for wedding gatherings and restricting the number of guests to 50, from the 200 allowed since November 1. The government has also written to the Centre to allow local lockdowns in markets which may emerge as hotspots. Kejriwal said the government has sought permission from the Centre to modify guidelines to shut markets if necessary.Read more| Covid-19: Delhi seeks curbs at weddings, markets“We witnessed massive crowds in some of the popular markets of Delhi before Diwali. No social distancing was followed and due to this, the number of Covid cases has surged significantly. In the last order passed by the Centre, it was noted that state government cannot impose any lockdowns without permission. We have requested them to permit us to shut down market places if necessary,” Kejriwal said.A decision has also been taken to increase house-to-house surveillance of active cases in containment zones and other vulnerable pockets in the national capital and 7,000-8,000 teams will be engaged for this exercise, an increase from the existing 3,000 teams that are currently involved. Elaborating further, NITI Aayog member VK Paul who heads Covid-19 national taskforce said the ICU bed capacity will be increased from 3,523 to over 6,000 in the next few days in hospitals across Delhi.Meanwhile, the North MCD said it has kept 20 ICU beds for Covid-19 patients at its Hindu Rao Hospital, the biggest municipal hospital in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-over-3-700-covid-19-cases-to-6-396-in-24-hours-delhi-s-rising-numbers-explained/story-DBkzlai5vMmOVhoshLqVVM.html
18-11-2020||India||Covid-19: Kashmir’s 39% population has antibodies, shows sero survey||Kashmir’s first district-wise sero survey for Covid-19 has shown antibodies in about 39% of the population in the Valley. Health officials said that the sero-prevalence study in Kashmir division for SARS COV-2 specific IgG antibodies was conducted across all the ten districts of Pulwama, Budgam, Kupwara, Srinagar, Bandipora, Ganderbal, Anantnag, Baramullah, Shopian and Kulgam. “The study shows IgG antibodies among 38.8% sampled population,” said Dr S Muhammad Salim Khan, head of the department, community medicine, Government Medical College (GMC), Srinagar.Also read | India’s daily Covid-19 cases again jump to over 38,600; recoveries above 8.33 mnThe study was organised by Government Medical College Srinagar and JK National Health Mission in collaboration with SKIMS Medical College, Government Medical College Anantnag, Government Medical College Baramullah and Directorate of Health Services, Kashmir.Blood samples were collected from a total of 6,230 persons of which 2,415 tested positive for the Covid antibodies. “From each district,400 samples were taken while earlier, we had taken 2,418 samples in Srinagar district which were tested for the presence of IgG antibodies specific to SARS COV-2 infection in Abbott Laboratories’ Architect analyser by Department of Biochemistry GMC Srinagar, “ Khan said. The age-wise analysis shows more sero prevalence among the elderly population while gender-wise, it’s more among females (40.2%) than males (37.3%). “Over half of the sampled population (52.1%) who had Influenza-like illness showed IgG antibodies and surprisingly, among those who didn’t show any symptoms, 37.9% showed IgG antibodies,” he said. Half of the sampled population who had history of contact with a Covid-19 case showed IgG antibodies while among those who had no history of contact, 40% showed IgG antibodies.Among those who had tested positive for Covid-19, only 79.5% showed antibodies. Even among 912 persons who tested negative, 345 (37.8%) had Covid-19 specific IgG antibodies.“The study indicates that there has been widespread transmission of SARS CoV-2 infection in general population and there are apprehensions that the majority of unaffected population may also contract it if SOPs aren’t followed. There seems complacency among the general population and very few people are now using face masks. People are not adhering to social distancing norms even at gatherings in public places,” Khan said.The study was funded by JK National Health Mission, the main collaborator of the study, and was approved by the Institutional ethical committee of GMC Srinagar.The number of Covid-19 cases in J&K has reached 103,581 and the number of deaths at 1,604 till Tuesday evening. Of the casualties, 1,063 deaths were reported in Kashmir and 541 in Jammu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-kashmir-s-39-population-has-antibodies-shows-sero-survey/story-xInBkGEVjvpiKYqlcCoATI.html
18-11-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi slams Centre, claims inflation, unemployment rate at all-time high||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday continued his attack on the Central government and claimed that inflation was never so high, nor was unemployment.Taking to Twitter, the former Congress chief said that the public morale is crumbling and social justice is being crushed daily.“Banks are in trouble and GDP too. Inflation was never so high, nor was unemployment. Public morale is crumbling and social justice is being crushed daily. Development or destruction?” he tweeted (roughly translated from Hindi). बैंक मुसीबत में हैं और GDP भी। महँगाई इतनी ज़्यादा कभी नहीं थी, ना ही बेरोज़गारी। जनता का मनोबल टूट रहा और सामाजिक न्याय प्रतिदिन कुचला जा रहा है।विकास या विनाश?Over the past few months, the Congress leader has been targeting the Centre on various issues, including the handling of the coronavirus crisis, economic conditions in the country and unemployment, among others and alleged that the government was not doing enough to resolve these issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-slams-centre-claims-inflation-unemployment-rate-at-all-time-high/story-X7wRVv9k4mDxJHfo4H6O9M.html
18-11-2020||India||J&K: PAGD announces third list of candidates for district development council elections||People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) announced late on Tuesday its third list of candidates for the district development council polls in Jammu and Kashmir which will be held in a phased manner. The list came out on the day Union home minister Amit Shah blamed the alliance for pushing J&K back to the era of “terror and turmoil”.PAGD chairman Farooq Abdullah released the list of 16 candidates with the Peoples Democratic Party contesting on eight seats, the National Conference on six seats, and the Peoples Conference and the Awami National Conference on one each. No Congress candidate figured in the third list. So far, PAGD has released names of 70 candidates for DDC polls in Kashmir. The first list had most of the candidates from the National Conference but the second and the third lists have accommodated candidates from other PAGD constituents as well.Earlier on Tuesday, Amit Shah, in a scathing criticism of the six-party bloc, termed them as the “Gupkar Gang” that wanted to take away the rights of Dalits, women and tribals that the Centre had ensured by removing Article 370, which accorded special status to the erstwhile state. He also dared Congress president Sonia Gandhi and senior party leader Rahul Gandhi to clarify their stand on the alliance.Shah’s remarks triggered a sharp response from the PAGD, which, its leader say, was formed to demand restoration of the special status. The PAGD leadership said the Bharatiya Janata Party was trying to delegitimise a coalition that was taking part in a democratic process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-pagd-announces-third-list-of-candidates-for-block-development-council-elections/story-V67v41hAH0seSWcuIfhVjJ.html
18-11-2020||India||10 killed in road accident in Gujarat, PM Modi condoles deaths||Ten people were killed and 16 injured when the mini-truck they were travelling in collided with another truck at a highway in Gujarat’s Vadodara on Wednesday morning, reports said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the death of the victims and wished for a speedy recovery of the injured. “Saddened by the accident in Vadodara. My thoughts are with those who lost their loved ones. Praying that the injured recover soon. The administration is providing all possible assistance at the site of the accident,” he said in a tweet. Chief minister Vijay Rupani also took to Twitter to express grief over the accident and said he has asked officials to help the victims. “Saddened by the loss of lives due to a road accident near Vadodara. Instructed officials to do needful. May those who have been injured recover at the earliest. I pray for the departed souls. Om Shanti,” Rupani tweeted. The 10 people, who died, were from Varachha area of Surat city and they were heading towards Pavagadh in Panchmahal district, Vadodara Police commissioner RB Brahmbhatt was cited as saying by news agency PTI. The injured at the accident site at Waghodia circle on the highway were admitted to the hospital.Home minister Amit Shah also expressed anguish over the loss of lives in the accident. “Have spoken to the local administration they are providing all possible assistance. Condolences with the bereaved families. May injured recover at the earliest,” he tweeted.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-killed-16-injured-as-trucks-collide-on-highway-in-gujarat/story-Je5Ccb6IIyFa74FG94Yn0I.html
18-11-2020||India||Chhattisgarh seeks Centre’s nod to make bio-ethanol from surplus paddy||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel met Union petroleum, natural gas and steel minister Dharmendra Pradhan in New Delhi on Tuesday and sought his permission for production of bio-ethanol from surplus paddy purchased by the state in addition to purchase made by the Food Corporation of India (FCI). The CM also demanded an increase in the quota of kerosene oil for people living in the forest areas. Baghel informed the union minister that state government has made necessary provisions in Chhattisgarh’s Industrial policy 2019-24 for setting up ethanol plants and requested permission to produce ethanol from about 6 lakh metric tonnes of paddy, a press release issued by the government stated on Tuesday. The CM sought permission for producing bio-ethanol from surplus paddy purchased from farmers in the state, in addition to purchases made by the FCI. The CM informed that an estimated 6 lakh tonnes of surplus paddy will be made available by the state government to ethanol plants for production. “Baghel drew union minister’s attention towards the requirement of more kerosene oil in forest areas and requested him to increase the quota. Union minister directed the officials for immediate action in the context. Union minister gave assurances to fulfil the demands made by Baghel with due consideration,” an official said. Also Read: Centre agrees to deploy 5 new CRPF battalions in Maoist-hit Bastar in a ‘bold’ moveEarlier on Tuesday, Baghel also met Union home minister Amit Shah and urged him to help generate more employment opportunities in the Bastar region to uproot Maoist problem from the state. During the meeting, Baghel discussed various issues with the Union minister such as better telecom facilities in Maoist affected regions, deployment of two more CRPF battalions in Bastar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-seeks-centre-s-nod-to-make-bio-ethanol-from-surplus-paddy/story-HBFZZV0fIC2zUeFORQ0WXM.html
18-11-2020||India||Increased testing, more beds: How Delhi is planning to fight Covid-19 third wave||Delhi has been reeling under the third wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak since the last week of October when daily infections started to spurt. On October 28, the daily number of Covid-19 cases breached the 5,000-mark for the first time since the outbreak began. On November 11, the city reported another record hike as more than 8,000 people contracted Covid-19 in a day.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageBetween November 1 and 16, over 101,000 Covid-19 infections were added to Delhi’s tally. In this period, the city recorded most infections (8,593 on November 11) and deaths (104 on November 12) in a single day.While the city battles the third wave of Covid-19, authorities have attributed the rise in cases to crowding due to the festivities and the onset of winter. On Tuesday, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said that people from outsides are getting themselves tested in Delhi, which is leading to the rise in the number of infections.Meanwhile, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has said the Centre and all agencies are making “double efforts” to control the situation.Here is what the Delhi government is doing to check the spread of the coronavirus disease:1. The government has decided double testing in Delhi between 100,000 and 120,000. So far, the authorities were testing up to 60,000 samples in a day. The testing will be increased while making sure a balance remains between antigen and RT-PCR tests, officials have said.2. On Tuesday, the Delhi government sent a letter to the Centre seeking permission to reduce the number of people at weddings to 50. Earlier, the limit was set at 200.3. It also sought powers to close markets in the hotspots of the city and close shops that are not adhering to the Covid-19 protocols.4. The number of intensive care unit (ICU) beds will also be increased to 6,000 in the next few days with the help of the Indian Army and central government.5. Under the containment strategy, authorities have also decided to increase house-to-house surveillance of active cases in containment zones and other vulnerable pockets. As many as 7,000-8,000 teams will be engaged for this exercise, an increase from the existing 3,000 teams that are currently involved.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/increased-testing-more-beds-how-delhi-is-planning-to-fight-covid-19-third-wave/story-3HG2TazcTBCuIrorO9voTO.html
18-11-2020||India||India’s daily Covid-19 cases again jump to over 38,600; recoveries above 8.33 mn||India’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases went up to 8,912,907 after 38,617 new infections were recorded in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry on Wednesday. After recording nearly 30,000 cases for two days in a row, the daily cases jumped by over 9,400 on Wednesday. On Tuesday, 29,163 new cases were reported and Monday’s figure of 30,548 was a “historic low”, according to the health ministry. The country has also seen less than 50,000 daily new cases being registered continuously for the past 10 days.Click here for latest updates on coronavirus “While this signifies the wide adoption of COVID appropriate behaviour among the population, it also assumes significance in view of the high number of daily cases being continuously reported in many countries in Europe and the Americas,” the ministry said in a press release on Tuesday.According to the health ministry, 10 states including Maharashtra, Kerala, Delhi, West Bengal, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Andhra Pradesh account for 76.7% of the total active cases.India also recorded 474 new fatalities due to Covid-19 between Tuesday and Wednesday morning, which have pushed the death toll to 130,993, according to the health ministry. There were 446,805 active Covid-19 cases on Wednesday morning, the health ministry’s dashboard showed. The number of active cases of the coronavirus disease continued to stay below the five lakh-mark and the number of patients discharged has reached 8,335,109.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageThe health ministry has said that India’s cases per million population is amongst the lowest in the world and stands at 6,430 against the global average of 6,956. The country’s deaths per million population are also amongst the lowest in the world at 94 deaths per million population, it has said.On Wednesday, the recovery rate reached 93.52% with Kerala reporting the maximum number of daily recoveries at 6620, followed by Maharashtra at 5123 and West Bengal at 4,388.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-daily-covid-19-cases-again-jump-to-over-38-600-recoveries-surpass-8-33-million/story-ZidBCZFeIEmtF8Av5hSUQI.html
18-11-2020||India||‘Was BJP-PDP alliance to bring back terror in J&K?’ asks Kapil Sibal after Shah’s ‘Gupkar gang’ remark||Congress leader Kapil Sibal on Wednesday lashed out at Union Home Minister Amit Shah over his “Gupkar gang” remark and asked him if Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-People’s Democratic Alliance (PDP) alliance was done to “bring back terror” in Jammu and Kashmir.“Amit Shah alleges: Congress wants to take ‘J&K back to the era of terror and turmoil’ when in talk with other parties in the upcoming District Development Council elections. Amitji was BJP -PDP alliance to “bring back terror in J&K ..” ? Which gang were you then part of?” Sibal tweeted.On Tuesday, Shah had said that the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration wants foreign forces to intervene in Jammu and Kashmir and asserted that Indian people will no longer tolerate an “unholy global gathbandhan” against national interest.Taking to Twitter, Shah had asked Congress interim President Sonia Gandhi and party leader Rahul Gandhi if they support the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration which, he said, insults India’s tricolour.The Home Minister said that “Congress and the Gupkar Gang want to take Jammu and Kashmir back to the era of terror and turmoil”.However, Congress general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala clarified that “Congress party is not a part of Gupkar alliance or People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration.”In 2015, BJP entered into an alliance with PDP as no party could get a majority in 2014 Assembly polls in the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir. However, in 2018, BJP pulled out of its coalition government with the PDP. Parties including the National Conference, PDP, Peoples Conference and CPI(M), formed the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration and are fighting the maiden District Development Council (DDC) elections together.While Farooq Abdullah was chosen as president of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, Mehbooba Mufti was picked to play a role of vice-president.On October 24, National Conference leader Omar Abdullah had said that the PAGD has been formed to ensure the rights of the people of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh are restored. “All of us united that the pre-August 5th, 2019 position must be restored,” he added.The DDC polls will be conducted in Jammu and Kashmir in eight phases between November 28 and December 19, and the counting of votes will take place on December 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/was-bjp-pdp-alliance-to-bring-back-terror-in-j-k-asks-kapil-sibal-after-shah-s-gupkar-gang-remark/story-JI033SrQ4GOhT5xbirYkML.html
18-11-2020||India||No biodiversity study done yet for drilling inside Assam’s Dibru-Saikhowa national park, OIL tells Gauhati HC||No public consultations were held before granting environmental clearance for the proposed drilling operations inside Assam’s Dibru-Saikhowa National Park, Oil India Limited (OIL) said in an affidavit filed in the Gauhati high court on Tuesday. OIL maintained that existing rules do not require it to conduct public consultations and added that oil and gas exploration and extraction has not started yet. It added that no biodiversity study of the proposed site has been done yet. OIL said it is committed to undertaking the study.The affidavit was filed in response to a petition filed in the court seeking a stay on permission granted to OIL in May to drill for hydrocarbons at seven locations inside the Park.In a separate affidavit, the Assam forest department said the Assam State Biodiversity Board (ASBB) has not conducted any biodiversity impact assessment study at the site.The affidavit said ASBB received a request from OIL in August this year to conduct a biodiversity impact assessment study, but it could not be conducted due to the blowout at a natural gas well of OIL at Baghjan near the Park.The forest department affidavit maintained that no drilling has been carried out inside the Park’s notified boundary.Spread over 340 sq km, Dibru-Saikhowa is also a biosphere reserve and home to 36 mammal species including tiger, Gangetic dolphin, and feral horses.OIL has said the drilling will be conducted through a technique called extended reach which would have no impact on the Park’s surface area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-biodiversity-study-done-yet-for-drilling-inside-assam-s-dibru-saikhowa-national-park-oil-tells-gauhati-hc/story-tseXaQc7TNr5D6QgPKIjJJ.html
18-11-2020||India||India’s move on RCEP ill-advised, says Congress leader Anand Sharma||Taking a divergent stand from his party, senior Congress leader Anand Sharma on Tuesday said India’s decision of not joining the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) was “unfortunate and ill advised”. He insisted that it was in the country’s strategic and economic interests to be a part of the process of Asia-Pacific integration. Congress president Sonia Gandhi had last year stated that signing the RCEP agreement will deal a “body blow” to the economy and result in “untold hardship” for farmers, shopkeepers and small enterprises. “The cavalier attitude comes at a price, a price that millions of our fellow Indians, especially the unemployed youth and farmers, are having to endure. As if economic decisions have not damaged the economy enough, it is now ready to deal a body blow to it by signing RCEP,” she had told party leaders in a meeting. Sonia Gandhi also said the RCEP will result in untold hardship for farmers, shopkeepers, and small and medium enterprises. Also read | Congress says it’s not part of Gupkar allianceBut on November 4 last year, India walked out of mega free trade agreement RCEP as negotiations failed to address New Delhi’s outstanding issues and concerns. The remaining 15 member countries had signed RCEP agreement and have stated that the pact would remain open to India. The Congress had then claimed victory, saying its forceful opposition ensured that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government backed out from bartering the interests of farmers, dairy producers, fishermen and small and medium businessmen. “Our voice played a major role in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s sudden and hypocritical discovery of Gandhiji’s talisman in Bangkok,” Sonia Gandhi had later said, addressing a meeting of the Congress Parliamentary Party in the Parliament House complex in November last year. But on Tuesday, Sharma, one of the 23 Congress dissenters who wrote a letter to the party chief in August this year seeking internal elections and organisational overhaul, struck a divergent note. “India’s decision of not joining RCEP is unfortunate and ill advised. It is in India’s strategic and economic interests to be a part of the process of Asia-Pacific integration,” he said. “Withdrawal has negated years of persuasive negotiations for India to be accepted as part of RCEP,” Sharma added. “We could have negotiated safeguards to protect our interests. Keeping out of the RCEP is a backward leap,” said Sharma, who had been closely involved in RCEP negotiations in his capacity as the commerce and industry minister in the UPA government led by Manmohan Singh. Former finance minister and senior Congress leader P Chidambaram also aired his views on India not joining RCEP on Tuesday, but said he would give a final view only when his party has taken a considered position on the issue. “My guarded tweet yesterday on India not being member of RCEP has been noticed by many. Every English language newspaper that I read has carried an editorial today that India would be better off by being a part of RCEP,” he tweeted. “I would reserve a final view until the Congress party has taken a considered position on the issue,” Chidambaram said. But he expressed dismay over external affairs minister S Jaishankar’s remarks at the Deccan Dialogue on Monday, saying the minister “railed against trade agreements and praised the virtues of protectionism”. “Mr Jaishankar is speaking in the language and in the words that I heard in the 1970s and 1980s!” Chidambaram said in a series of tweets. On Monday, he had tweeted, “RCEP born, it is the world’s largest trading body. 15 nations in our region are members of RCEP, India is not among them. There are pros and cons to India joining RCEP, but the debate has never taken place in Parliament or among the people or involving the Opposition parties,” he said. “It is another bad example of centralised decision-making unacceptable in a democracy,” Chidambaram added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-move-on-rcep-ill-advised-says-congress-leader-anand-sharma/story-tmdaJJTBS0xS7aG5cT3i9L.html
18-11-2020||India||Nagaland blockade suspended for a day, 2 states agree to talk for resolution||The indefinite economic blockade of Nagaland on NH-39 over alleged encroachment of Assam land has been suspended for Wednesday after authorities from both sides met to discuss the issue on Tuesday and further talks were proposed for Wednesday.Karbi students’ association (KSA) president Bijoy Bey said government officials in Assam conveyed that their Nagaland counterparts have assured to maintain status quo on the disputed area till further resolution and have requested the organisations to call off the blockade. “The deputy commissioner of Karbi Anglong has convened a meeting with us on Wednesday to further discuss the matter, so, until then, we have decided to suspend the economic blockade,” Bey said. However, he stressed that the blockade call was only being kept in abeyance and the organizations were not calling it off yet.Earlier Tuesday, a team led by Nagaland’s Dimapur deputy commissioner and commissioner of police conducted a joint spot visit with deputy commissioner Diphu (Assam) and other officials, which was followed by a meeting.Several organizations in Assam’s Karbi Anglong district had started the indefinite economic blockade of Nagaland from Tuesday citing alleged illegal encroachments by the neighbouring state. Led by Karbi Students Association (KSA), the organisations blocked NH 39 from 8:00 am on Tuesday. Several trucks carrying goods and other commercial vehicles were stranded because of the blockade. Also Read: Assam: AASU 4-day general conference begins today; to give final shape to new political partyThere are allegations that Nagaland authorities have issued land certificates to people in areas falling in the Daldali forest reserve, under Karbi Anglong Autonomous Council (KAAC) region in Assam. Authorities in Assam also allege that border pillars demarcating the 512 km long boundary between both states have been removed by people from Nagaland in order to encroach on Assam territory. “Encroachment of Assam territory has been going on for many years, but the state government has failed to stop it. Hence, we have decided to impose the indefinite economic blockade against it,” Bey, president of KSA told journalists on Sunday. The Dimapur authorities maintained that the boundary as per British map was not accepted by Nagaland side and the case is sub judice in the Supreme Court, said officials. On allegations that the Nagaland government issued land certificates to Naga people on Assam land in Karbi Anglong and Jorhat districts, the official denied that no such papers were issued.Nagaland and Assam share a 512 km boundary and a dispute that’s going on for over five decades. Nagaland has been claiming some portions of Assam as theirs while the latter is accusing the former of encroaching thousands of hectares of its land. Both states have refused to accept recommendations of two commissions set up by the Centre to solve the issue and a suit is pending in Supreme Court on the issue since 1988. There have been several violent clashes on the issue. Over 100 people have been killed, most of them on the Assam side, in attacks by armed men from Nagaland in separate incidents in 1979, 1985 and 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-blockade-suspended-for-a-day-2-states-agree-to-talk-for-resolution/story-54ykpoCX4Aw3ip17Sysw7K.html
18-11-2020||India||Assam: AASU 4-day general conference begins today; to give final shape to new political party||All eyes are on the four-day general conference of All Assam Students Union (AASU) which will start on Wednesday as the state’s premier student body gives final shape to a new political party ahead of next year’s assembly polls. In September, AASU and Asom Jatiyatabadi Yuva Chatra Parishad (AJYCP), another influential student body, had joined hands and announced formation of Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP), which will contest the polls due in March-April. The general conference, to be held at Duliajan in Dibrugarh district, is expected to announce the office-bearers of the new political party and also witness several prominent faces of AASU leaving the platform to join active politics. The terms of AASU president Dipanka Kumar Nath and general secretary Lurinjyoti Gogoi are ending and both the leaders are expected to take contest the next assembly polls. While Gogoi was slated to join AJP, there’s no clarity yet on which party Nath would join. Since both have been vehemently opposing the BJP-led coalition in the state, it is expected that they will join anti-BJP fronts. There’s also speculation that AASU adviser Samujjal Bhattacharya, one of the most prominent student leaders from the region, will be retiring from the outfit during the general conference. Bhattacharya, who is reported to be unhappy with the way AJP is shaping up, has remained mum on the speculations. There’s no indication yet on whether he will join any political party and contest the next polls. Incidentally, AJP is the second political party to be formed by AASU after Asom Gana Parishad, which came into being in 1985 after signing of the Assam Accord that ended the six-year-long anti-foreigners agitation--in which both AASU and AJYCP played a key role. Both organisations had spearheaded the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act stir in the state opposing the Centre’s move to grant citizenship to religious minorities from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan—which many in Assam feared would lead to large scale influx of Bangladeshis to the state. Earlier, leadership of both AASU and AJYCP had stressed that formation of the new party won’t affect the organisations and they would retain their non-political character.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-aasu-4-day-general-conference-begins-today-to-give-final-shape-to-new-political-party/story-7ZXqKyUGH4EMX13g8YLNNK.html
18-11-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine update: India may produce Sputnik V; Sinovac’s candidate triggers ‘quick’ immune response||A number of vaccines against Covid-19 are at different stages of trials across the world as a global race continues to develop a shot for the coronavirus disease that has affected nearly 56 million and claimed more than 1.3 million lives so far.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAs governments across the world are trying to secure the vaccines for people, Russian President Vladimir Putin has said that India may join the list of countries likely to start producing his country’s vaccine candidate, Sputnik V, according to a news agency.Here are the latest updates on the Covid-19 vaccine development front:1. India and China may start producing Russia’s Covid-19 vaccine candidate Sputnik V, news agency RIA quoted Putin as saying. Putin, who also virtually hosted the five-nation BRICS summit on Tuesday, further proposed that the creation of a vaccine centre for the member states of the bloc - Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa - be sped up, news agency TASS reported. Sputnik V is reported to be 92% effective at protecting people from Covid-19.Also Read | India may start producing Russia’s Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V, says Putin2. Chinese biotech firm Sinovac Biotech’s vaccine candidate, CoronaVac, triggered a “quick” immune response, preliminary trial results showed on Wednesday. However, the trial also found that the number of antibodies produced by the vaccine was lower than those in people who had recovered from the disease. CoronaVac is among five vaccine candidates undergoing late-stage trials in China to determine their efficacy in preventing Covid-19.Also Read | Chinese Covid-19 vaccine also found safe, induces immune response3. America’s Pfizer Inc, which is developing a vaccine candidate with Germany’s BioNTech SE, on Tuesday said a key milestone has been reached in the study of its vaccine candidate. The company further said it was preparing to submit its data to the US Food and Drug Administration for emergency use authorisation. It has also launched a pilot delivery program for its vaccine candidate in four US states. Earlier this month, the mRNA-based candidate, BNT162b2, was found to be more than 90% effective against the disease.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-update-india-may-produce-sputnik-v-sinovac-s-candidate-triggers-quick-immune-response/story-F2C8Gb5H5g6KqCVQdHOmEL.html
18-11-2020||India||Stubble fires come down; NW India breathes easy for now||Most parts of northwest India experienced blue skies and “satisfactory” and “moderate” air quality after a spell of “severe” air quality last week following widespread rains and snowfall in the hills and north-western plains on Sunday.Stubble fires in Punjab have also stopped with the Kharif harvest season coming to an end. This year, paddy yield in Punjab is likely to be 22% higher than last year, according to Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR).Compared to the past three years, air quality is considerably better this year in many north-western towns from November 13 to 17, shows data from Central Pollution Control Board’s air quality index bulletins. On Wednesday morning also, the air quality index in northwestern towns and cities like Amritsar, Baghpat, Bahadurgarh, Bathinda, Delhi, Faridabad, Ghaziabad, Gurugram and Karnal etc was in “moderate” and “satisfactory” category.Even though Diwali this year was celebrated on November 14, a combination of favourable meteorology and tapering off of crop stubble fires in Punjab and Haryana has led to air pollution levels dropping significantly from November 15 onwards. The accumulation of pollutants from stubble fires and Diwali firecrackers has dispersed, scientists said.Also read | Focus on local emissions to avoid return of bad air“Unlike previous years when stubble fires would coincide and linger after Diwali, this time after Diwali, fires have also reduced and the accumulated pollution has been dispersed due to strong winds and rain after an active Western Disturbance that impacted the Western Himalayan region on November 14. Even though the wind direction changed from easterly to northwesterly on Tuesday, if there are no stubble fires, we do not expect air pollution levels to spike again. Wind speed will continue to be moderate over 10 kmph for the next few days,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.With the switch to northwesterly wind direction, minimum temperature is likely to drop gradually. On Monday, the minimum temperature in Delhi was 16 degree C, 2 degree C above normal and on Tuesday, it came down to 13 degree C , 1 degree C above normal. “We can expect minimum temperature to fall by another 3 degree C to about 10 degrees on Wednesday,” Shrivastava added.Under the influence of a fresh Western Disturbance, light isolated to scattered rain and snow is very likely over Western Himalayan region from November 18 to 20 once again. Minimum temperatures are likely to fall gradually by 2-4 degree C over northwest India and north Madhya Pradesh during the next 4-5 days according to India Meteorological Department’s Tuesday bulletin.“What we are seeing now is because of very good wind speed following rain and snowfall in many parts of northwest India. The ventilation index in Delhi on Tuesday is over 10,000 m2. The mixing height is also very good. The pollution accumulated over the past few days has dispersed. The life of PM 2.5 particles (fine, respirable pollution particles) is about 3 days but it is now getting dispersed. Though wind direction has changed to north-westerly pollution levels have not increased. This is also because emissions from stubble fires have nearly stopped now,” said Vijay Soni, scientist at IMD’s air quality division. The ventilation index is a function of the mixing height (the height at which pollutants mix in the air) and the wind speed and defines the ability of the atmosphere to disperse contaminants. A ventilation index below 2,350 sq metres/second is considered poor. Farmers in Punjab and the ICAR confirmed that harvesting for the Kharif season is nearly complete. “Air pollution levels have dropped in Punjab also. Fires have reduced because harvest is over. We had a very good crop this year. Whatever fires were left have been dampened after rain. We don’t expect more fires now,” said Harinder Singh Lakhowal, Bharatiya Kisan Union general secretary, Punjab.“The arrival of paddy is 209.56 lakh tonnes up to November 17, around 22.8% higher than last year’s 170.64 lakh tonnes. Last year, the total arrival was around 188.9 lakh tonnes during whole season,” said Trilochan Mohapatra, director general, ICAR.“This reduction in air pollution has been possible partly because fire counts have reduced to almost zero and meteorological factors have been favourable. Now that we have a Commission for air quality management in NCR and adjoining areas, I am hoping there will be strict compliance of emissions from the industrial sector, from power plants and brick kilns. Personally, I hope to see a reduction in air pollution levels compared to 2018 and 2019,” said Sagnik Dey, associate professor at IIT Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stubble-fires-come-down-nw-india-breathes-easy-for-now/story-NQ01uU1q1Y55zkhaY2bBWI.html
18-11-2020||India||Cop arrives late at airport, slaps airline staff for not issuing boarding pass||A sub-inspector rank officer has allegedly slapped SpiceJet airline staff for not allowing him to board the plane because he reported late at the airport, officials said on Tuesday.“On November 17, three passengers including sub-inspector from Gujarat Police arrived at the airport. They had booked tickets in SpiceJet SG-8194 for Delhi but they reported at the counter late and started arguing with the airline staff at the ticket counter over boarding passes but airline staff denied issuing boarding passes due to the delay,” airport officials told ANI here.The officials said that after a heated argument, the sub-inspector slapped the airline staff for refusing to issue boarding passes over the delay.A scuffle broke out between the passengers and airline staff creating panic at the airport, after which airport security, CISF, was called for controlling the situation and the passengers, as well as the airline staff, were handed over to local police for further course of action.Sources said that the passengers and airline staff have reached a mutual understanding and withdrawn the complaint against passengers including the sub-inspector.However, the passengers including the sub-inspector were not allowed to board the flight. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sub-inspector-slaps-airline-staff-for-not-issuing-boarding-pass-at-ahmedabad-airport/story-1Sm3DfzH07yAqzHe9AradL.html
18-11-2020||India||BJP renews attack on Congress over AgustaWestland case||Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Tuesday said that no defence deals were finalised under the Congress government without “kickbacks” to its leaders. The senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader was reacting to reports of Congress leaders allegedly receiving kickbacks in the AgustaWestland chopper deal. “There used to be a paint company Jenson and Nicholson that used a tag line, whenever you think of colour think of us... in the Congress’s case, it is modified to whenever you think of kickback in a military deal or a defence deal think of some Congress leaders,” the minister said. According to a news report, the key accused in the ₹3,000-crore AgustaWestland VVIP chopper deal case, Rajiv Saxena, has allegedly made references to former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath’s son Bakul Nath, and his nephew Ratul Puri, along with senior Congress leaders Salman Khurshid and Ahmed Patel, during interrogation. “No defence deal without loot, no defence deal without a kickback and no defence deal without some Congress leaders becoming beneficiary of it has been the go-to policy of Congress leaders,” Prasad told mediapersons, while urging the Congress to clarify its stand on the allegationsReacting to the allegations, Khurshid said, “Nobody has been able to tell me who said what and in what context. If I knew, I would certainly reply. I don’t think that we should generally reply to anybody who goes around mouthing names of people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-renews-attack-over-congress-over-agustawestland-case/story-d06pw1Gl5D6UaXh8s13AiK.html
18-11-2020||India||In warm conversation, Modi, Biden discussed healthcare, Indo-Pacific: US envoy||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and US President-elect Joe Biden had a “very warm conversation” during which they exchanged views on the Indo-Pacific region and the role of healthcare, pharmaceuticals and particularly vaccines, said Ambassador Taranjit Singh Sandhu on Tuesday. Speaking to ANI, Sandhu said PM Modi congratulated Biden on his election and the president-elect extended warm Diwali greeting to the Indian leader and people of India.“PM Modi and president-elect Joe Biden had a very warm conversation. The PM congratulated him and the president-elect extended warm Diwali greeting to the PM and people of India. They exchanged views on global strategic partnership and Indo-Pacific area and discussed the problems that both US, India and the world are facing vis-a-vis COVID,” the envoy said. “They discussed the role of healthcare, pharmaceuticals and particularly vaccines. They also discussed climate change and environment and in that the role of renewables and solar energy,” he added. Prime Minister Modi and Biden on Tuesday had a telephonic conversation wherein they agreed to further advance the India-US Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership and discussed their priorities, including containing the Covid-19 pandemic and Indo-Pacific region, according to a statement by Prime Minister’s office.During the telephonic conversation, Prime Minister Modi warmly congratulated President-elect Biden on his election, describing “it as a testament to the strength and resilience of democratic traditions in the United States”, the statement added.Prime Minister Modi warmly recalled his earlier interactions with Biden, including during his official visits to the United States in 2014 and in 2016. Biden had chaired the Joint Session of the US Congress that was addressed by the Prime Minister during his 2016 visit“In 2014, when PM Modi came for his first official visit to the US, it was the then VP Biden who hosted an official lunch for him. Again in 2016 during PM Modi’s address to the US Congress, it was VP Biden who presided over the joint session of US Congress. So they very warmly recall those interactions,” Sandhu said. Sandhu said the prime minister also extended warm congratulations for Vice President-elect Kamala Harris.“During the interaction, PM Modi also extended warm congratulations for VP-elect Harris. This is a proud moment for Indian-Americans in the US. She is a source of inspiration and India is also very proud of her achievement,” he said. Meanwhile, Biden-Harris Presidential Transition team said that Joe Biden looks forward to working closely with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi on “shared global challenges”, including containing Covid-19 and maintaining a secure and prosperous Indo-Pacific region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-warm-conversation-pm-modi-joe-biden-discussed-healthcare-indo-pacific-us-envoy/story-TbxMwenQ7o50UdM29ApkmI.html
18-11-2020||India||Congress says it’s not part of Gupkar alliance||The Congress on Tuesday said it was neither a part of the Gupkar Alliance nor the six-party bloc of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) in Jammu & Kashmir, hours after Union home minister Amit Shah asked the party to clear its stand on whether it is backing the alliance that is seeking to restore Article 370 in the erstwhile state.In a statement, Congress’s chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala accused Shah of making mischievous statements on Jammu & Kashmir and insisted that the Congress would never compromise on the country’s territorial integrity. “The Congress is neither part of Gupkar Alliance nor PAGD. Will Mr Amit Shah bother to explain why the BJP formed a coalition government with the PDP that he is now attacking?” he asked. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had on June 19, 2018, ended its almost 40-month-old alliance with the Mehbooba Mufti-led People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and withdrew its support to her government citing irreconcilable differences.“To spread lies, fraud and creating new illusions have become the way of the [Narendra] Modi government. It’s a shame that the home minister is keeping aside the responsibility of the national security and is making false, misleading and mischievous statements on Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh,” Surjewala said. Also Read: Amit Shah aims at Gupkar group on ‘foreign link’He said the Congress was never in favour of international intervention on the Kashmir issue and the party was committed to the country’s integrity, sovereignty and the tricolour. The Congress leader also asked Shah to explain who was responsible for the release of Jaish-e-Mohammed founder Masood Azhar, released along with two others in exchange for the passengers of hijacked Indian Airlines plane IC-814 in Afghanistan’s Kandahar in December 1999, and why it allowed Pakistan’s Inter Services Intelligence (ISI) to visit the Pathankot air base following a terror attack. “Congress doesn’t need any lesson in nationalism from parties that were slaves or stooges of the British Empire. The nation still remembers the sacrifices of its leaders, including Mahatma Gandhi, former Prime Ministers Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi,” Surjewala said. “May be Amit Shah and the Narendra Modi government need new lessons in patriotism and national as their parent organisation, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), never hoisted the national tri-colour for 52 years at its headquarters,” he added. Surjewala said the Congress is fighting the district development council (DDC) polls because it favours democratic elections in Jammu & Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-says-it-s-not-part-of-gupkar-alliance/story-npAcKFYzuywquzKq1LqJrK.html
18-11-2020||India||Two Dalit sisters found dead in Uttar Pradesh||The bodies of two Dalit sisters were found with eye injuries in a pond in a village in Uttar Pradesh’s Fatehpur district, with their families alleging that they were killed after an unsuccessful rape bid, police said.The bodies of the girls, aged 8 and 12, were retrieved from the pond late Monday evening, ASP Rajesh Kumar said.Both the bodies had injury marks on the eyes, he said.The girls had gone to the field in the afternoon to get vegetables but did not return, the police said.The family members of the minors have alleged that the assailants killed the girls after an unsuccessful attempt to rape them, the officer said.The bodies were sent for post-mortem and the report is awaited, police saidBoth the bodies had injury marks on the eyes, he said.The girls had gone to the field in the afternoon to get vegetables but did not return, the police said.The family members of the minors have alleged that the assailants killed the girls after an unsuccessful attempt to rape them, the officer said.The bodies were sent for post-mortem and the report is awaited, police said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-dalit-sisters-found-dead-in-uttar-pradesh/story-5CaxGyuVuDDVyu5l2blq9M.html
18-11-2020||India||Congress Bihar, Gujarat incharges offer to resign after poll defeat||The Bihar and Gujarat incharges of the Congress on Tuesday offered to resign before a special committee formed in August to assist party chief Sonia Gandhi on organisational matters, people familiar with the development said, as rumblings in the organisation continued in the wake of its dismal electoral performances.Shaktisinh Gohil, the Congress’s Bihar incharge, and Rajeev Satav, who looks after the party affairs in Gujarat, offered to resign in the meeting, according to a Congress functionary who spoke on the condition of anonymity. This leader said that Manipur incharge Bhakta Charan Das, also attended the online meeting. While there was no official word on what transpired in the meeting, repeated calls to Gohil and Satav went unanswered.The meeting was held in the backdrop of the outcome of the Bihar assembly elections and by-elections to 58 seats across 11 states. In Bihar, the Congress won just 19 of the 70 seats it contested and, according to some analysts, impacted the chances of the opposition alliance to oust the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government. The party failed to win any seat in the by-elections to Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Manipur, Nagaland, Odisha and Telangana.Also Read| Bihar, bypolls: What ails the Congress today?In the wake of the outcome, a war of words has erupted in the party after senior leader and former Union minister Kapil Sibal, one of the 23 signatories to a letter to the Congress president in August that sought internal elections and an organisational overhaul, questioned the leadership on the poll debacle and asked if it was “business as usual”. The Congress functionary quoted above said that the committee members told Gohil and Satav on Tuesday that the panel is not the right forum to offer their resignations. They also told them that it does not have the mandate to accept or reject their resignations as only the Congress president has such a mandate. Instead, the committee told the incharges that they should identify the reasons for the party’s poor show in the three states and submit a detailed report, said the functionary. He added that the meeting was initially called to discuss the status of the party’s nationwide campaign against three new farm laws, which have been opposed by some quarters, but later the members asked Gohil, Satav and Das to join and discuss the poll outcome. The six-member special committee was formed by Gandhi as part of the party’s reshuffle drive carried out in September. It comprises AK Antony, Ahmed Patel, Ambika Soni, Mukul Wasnik, KC Venugopal and Randeep Singh Surjewala. Only four members of the panel — Soni, Venugopal, Surjewala and Wasnik (who was a part of the 23 dissenters) — attended Tuesday’s meeting. Patel is in the being treated in Gurugram’s Medanta Hospital after having tested positive for Covid-19. Antony is awaiting a report of his test after developing symptoms. A member of the group of 23 leaders who had written the August letter termed the offer of resignations a “drama enacted to hide their failures” and demanded broad-based consultations on the poll outcome. “Anybody in the Congress will tell you that any meeting to discuss electoral setbacks without the presence of either Sonia Gandhi or Rahul Gandhi is meaningless,” he said, pointing out that the two top leaders were not present at the meeting. “Why didn’t Surjewala offer to resign? It is strange. He was the face of the Congress in Bihar and looking after the party’s election management there. This meeting was a farce,” said the leader on condition of anonymity. Differences in the Congress have surfaced again after the election results. As Sibal spoke out publicly and insisted that the Congress needs efficient and senior leaders to manage elections, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot countered him and claimed that his remarks have “hurt the sentiments” of workers and reminded him that the party had been through crisis several times in the past. On Tuesday, senior Congress leader and former Union minister Salman Khurshid, too, took a dig at Sibal. In a Facebook post, Khurshid said if the mood of the electorate is resistant to the liberal values the party has espoused and cherished, it should be prepared for a long struggle rather than look for short cuts to get back into power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-bihar-gujarat-incharges-offer-to-resign-after-poll-defeat/story-b9VA2vkcfpzOEA6BFrd4jJ.html
18-11-2020||India||Assam groups defer economic blockade||Students’ ogranisations in Karbi Anglong district of Assam on Tuesday decided to suspend their protest against alleged land encroachment by Nagaland, after officials of the two states assured them of maintaining status quo in the disputed area. The protesters, led by Karbi Students Association (KSA), have accused Nagaland authorities of issuing land certificates to people residing in areas falling under the Daldali forest reserve in Karbi Anglong Autonomous Council (KAAC) in Assam.Officials in Assam have also alleged that border pillars, demarcating the 512 km long boundary between the states, have been removed by people from Nagaland to encroach on Assamese territory. KSA president Bijoy Bey said that they had been assured that Nagaland would maintain status quo in the disputed area. “The Deputy Commissioner of Karbi Anglong has convened a meeting with us on Wednesday to further discuss the matter. Until then, we have decided to suspend the economic blockade,” Bey said. He added that the blockade was only being kept in abeyance and the organizations were not calling it off yet.Earlier in the day, protesters blocked national highway 39, leading to Nagaland, and restricted the movement of commercial vehicles. Officials from the two states visited the spot followed by a meeting between deputy commissioner of Nagaland’s Dimapur district and deputy commissioner of Assam’s Diphu.While Nagaland claims some parts of the shared 512 km-long border as its territory, Assam has accused Nagaland of encroaching on thousands of hectares of its land. Over the past five decades, there have been several disputes which claimed more than 100 lives.Both states have refused to accept recommendations of two commissions set up by Centre, in 1971 and 2006, to resolve the issue. In 1988, Assam filed a title suit in the Supreme Court seeking identification of the boundary between the states and resolving the border dispute by permanent injunction restraining Nagaland from encroaching on Assam’s territory and handing over of encroached areas. The matter is at trial stage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-groups-defer-economic-blockade/story-x6s9phfXZ8eOGB4WeQZhTN.html
18-11-2020||India||Bihar: Nitish Kumar keeps Home, new deputy Prasad gets Sushil’s portfolios||Newly appointed Bihar deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad was given finance and five other portfolios that were held by his predecessor Sushil Kumar Modi in a notification about the allotment of ministries issued by Raj Bhawan in Patna on Tuesday. Chief minister Nitish Kumar retained the home, general administration, vigilance and a clutch of other portfolios. Deputy CM Renu Devi was given the portfolios of panchayati raj, other backward classes and extremely backward classes, and industries. Prasad was given finance, commercial tax, environment, forestry and climate change and information technology, all of which were previously held by Modi. In addition, he will also hold the disaster management and urban development portfolios. The urban development department was with Bharatiya Janata Party minister Suresh Kumar Sharma, who lost the election from Muzaffarpur. Kumar took oath for his fourth consecutive term as chief minister on Monday. Devi and Prasad, both BJP leaders, replaced Modi, who was deputy CM for 11 years. Along with them, 12 ministers -- five from BJP, five from Janata Dal (United) and one each from Hindustani Awam Morcha-Secular and Vikassheel Insaan Party -- were sworn in. The new cabinet met for the first time on Tuesday and cleared a proposal to convene the first session of the assembly and legislative council from November 23 to November 27, minister Amarendra Pratap Singh of the BJP said.In the distribution of portfolios, Mangal Pandey was retained as the health minister. He will also hold charge of art, culture and youth affairs, and road construction departments. The previous road construction department minister Nand Kishore Yadav, who was not made a minister but is widely expected to be appointed speaker during the assembly session next week. Vijay Kumar Chaudhary, a JD(U) leader who was the speaker in the previous assembly, was given parliamentary affairs, rural works, rural development, water resources and information and public relations department. Ashok Choudhary, the JD(U)s state working president, retained building construction besides science and technology, social welfare and minorities affairs while Bijendra Prasad Yadav, a former state unit chief of the JD(U), retained power, prohibition and excise besides getting planning and development, and food and consumer protection. Mewa Lal Chaudhary, a JD(U) MLA who was inducted in the cabinet for the first time, got education, while Sheela Kumar, a first-time MLA who is only one of two women members in the council of ministers, was given transport department. Other BJP ministers are Amarendra Pratap Singh (agriculture, cooperatives and sugarcane industry), Rampreet Paswan (public health engineering), Jibesh Kumar (labour, tourism and mines) and Ram Surat Kumar Rai (revenue, land reforms and law). VIP chief Mukesh Sahni, who lost his election, was given animal husbandry and fisheries. Santosh Kumar Suman, the son of HAM-S chief Jitan Ram Manjhi, was given minor water resources and scheduled castes and scheduled tribes welfare departments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-nitish-kumar-keeps-home-new-deputy-prasad-gets-sushil-s-portfolios/story-n7A7zS74rvU68YZvDmISFJ.html
18-11-2020||India||Peace on border was basis of growth of China-India ties: Jaishankar||As the border standoff between India and China continued for over six months, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Tuesday said there was “cause for concern” but efforts were on to work out solutions. In an interactive session organised by Mumbai-based think-tank Gateway House, Jaishankar said the basis for the overall growth of the relationship between the two countries was peace and tranquillity along the borders.“Now, if that gets disturbed, then it cannot be that if the foundation of the house gets eroded or fractured and the rest of the superstructure remains unaltered. I think we are going through a period of stressful relations with China,” Jaishankar said.“My hope is that people at that end of the relationship understand the seriousness of what has happened,” he said.The external affairs minister also referred to a number of agreements that the two countries signed to ensure peace and tranquility along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). “We have agreements not to bring a large number of forces to the border. These are written agreements which we have observed for 30 years. If today that is violated without explanation, with no justification offered to us, we have to ask ourselves, where is this going,” he said.“There is cause for concern, but it is in the nature of our job to try and work out solutions,” he added.Jaisankar said the rise of China was natural and part of a global rebalancing.He also said that it is the responsibility of the rising power to also consider how the world reacts, adding it is not just enough to rise.Canadian Foreign Minister François-Philippe Champagne said his country’s ties with China are multi-dimensional and complex, adding “coercive diplomacy” was not the way to engage in today’s world.“There are places where Canada will challenge China such as human rights and places where both will have to co-exist, such as Indo-Pacific and trade, climate change,” he said.In his remarks, Jaishankar also made an indirect reference to the Khalistan movement that strained ties between India and Canada during Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s first term.“Both nations have benefited from the talent and creativity of the human bridge. However, we have also seen the misuse of democratic freedoms by a small minority with medieval beliefs and a propensity to violence,” he said.Jaishankar also said that India and Canada can work together in dealing with Covid-19 and in shaping the emerging global order in the post-pandemic period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/peace-on-border-was-basis-of-growth-of-china-india-ties-jaishankar/story-VC4OmZZrDqVjXw23EsTdVK.html
18-11-2020||India||Amit Shah aims at Gupkar group on ‘foreign link’||A newly launched grouping of political parties in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) wants foreign forces to intervene in the region and take it back to the era of “terror and turmoil”, Union home minister Amit Shah said on Tuesday, in a scathing criticism of the six-party bloc known as the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD).He said that the “Gupkar Gang” wants to take away the rights of Dalits, women and tribal people that the Centre ensured by removing Article 370, which accorded special status to the erstwhile state, and dared Congress president Sonia Gandhi and her son Rahul Gandhi to clear the air on whether their party is backing the alliance. Shah also called the grouping a “global gathbandhan against our national interest”.His remarks triggered a sharp response from the coalition, which its leaders say has been formed to demand the restoration of the erstwhile state’s special status. The PAGD leadership said the Centre’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is trying to delegitimise a coalition that is taking part in the upcoming local polls in J&K. The Congress, too, hit back at Shah, saying the party is not a part of PAGD, which includes regional powerhouses National Conference (NC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).“The Gupkar Gang is going global! They want foreign forces to intervene in Jammu and Kashmir. The Gupkar Gang also insults India’s Tricolour. Do Sonia Ji and Rahul Ji support such moves of the Gupkar Gang? They should make their stand crystal clear to the people of India,” Shah wrote on Twitter.Also Read| Congress not part of Gupkar alliance: SurjewalaThe BJP maintains that the Gupkar grouping, led by NC’s Farooq Abdullah, has been formed on the directions of Pakistan and China and is guided by “anti-India” forces. The BJP unit in J&K has also demanded the arrest of PDP’s Mehbooba Mufti, the deputy chairperson of PAGD, for her October-end remarks that she will hold the national tricolour only after the flag of the erstwhile state is restored.“Jammu and Kashmir has been, is and will always remain an integral part of India. Indian people will no longer tolerate an unholy ‘global gathbandhan’ against our national interest. Either the Gupkar Gang swims along with the national mood or else the people will sink it,” Shah added.Reacting to Shah’s tweets, PAGD alleged that the BJP is frustrated with the alliance since it will not get a walkover in the district development council (DDC) elections, which will be held from November 28 to December 22, with candidates of the coalition in fray.“I can understand the frustration behind this attack by the Hon’ble Home Minister. He had been briefed that the People’s Alliance (PAGD) was preparing to boycott elections. This would have allowed the BJP & newly formed King’s party (Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party) a free run in J&K. We didn’t oblige them,” NC’s Omar Abdullah tweeted.He also stressed that PAGD is not a gang but a “legitimate political alliance”. “Only in J&K can leaders be detained & called anti-national for participating in elections & supporting the democratic process. The truth is all those who oppose the ideology of the BJP are labelled “corrupt & anti-national”,” he added.Mufti, a former ally of the BJP, said that the party’s “stale tactic of dividing India by projecting themselves as saviours & political opponents as internal & imagined enemies is far too predictable now”.“Old habits die hard. Earlier BJP’s narrative was that the tukde tukde gang threatened India’s sovereignty & they are now using ‘Gupkar Gang’ euphemism to project us as anti-nationals. Irony died a million deaths since its BJP itself that violates the constitution day in & day out. “Fighting elections in an alliance is also anti-national now. BJP can stitch as many alliances in its hunger for power but somehow we are undermining national interest by putting up a united front,” she tweeted.Srinagar-based political analyst Aseem Bhat said that the coming together of the parties against the BJP is a significant development. “So far, the regional parties were on the back foot (after the nullification of Article 370 last year)...Now, they have started doing aggressive politics not only in Kashmir but also in the Jammu region, which is going to hurt the BJP...”In the statement denying any association with PAGD, the Congress said that Shah should explain the BJP’s alliance with the PDP in 2015, when the two parties formed the government in the state.Also Read| ‘Those who oppose BJP’s ideology are labelled corrupt and anti-national’: Omar Abdullah“Congress is neither part of Gupkar Alliance nor PAGD. Will Mr Amit Shah bother to explain why the BJP formed a coalition government with the PDP that he is now attacking?” Congress’s chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said, accusing the home minister of “making mischievous statements” on J&K and stressing that the Congress will never compromise on the country’s territorial integrity.PAGD has already released two lists comprising the names of 54 candidates for the DDC polls, in which nominees will contest on party symbols. Despite the central Congress leadership’s denial, three of the party’s candidates feature in the second list. Also, the J&K Congress leadership said earlier this week that the party is part of the grouping.On August 5, 2019, the central government nullified Article 370 and bifurcated J&K into two Union territories – J&K with a legislative assembly and Ladakh without one — triggering widespread protests and a political firestorm.Several political leaders and activists including three former chief ministers — Mufti, Farooq Abdullah and his son Omar Abdullah — were detained as a preventive measure to maintain law and order. The Abdullahs were released in March, and Mufti in October.Since then, the leaders, once fierce opponents, have come together — backed by four other parties (Peoples Conference, Communist Party of India-Marxist, Peoples Movement and Awami National Conference) — to forge the alliance that aims to work for the restoration of the region’s special status. The grouping’s first meeting was held at the Gupkar residence of Farooq Abdullah on October 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-aims-at-gupkar-group-on-foreign-link/story-7Ldkz3rISETIoce0LeboML.html
18-11-2020||India||Meerut: 2 killed, five injured in building collapse after cylinder blast||Two persons were killed and five others were injured in a building collapse following a cylinder blast in the Falawada area of Meerut district here on Tuesday, police said.According to the police, seven people were rescued from the debris of the collapsed building and rushed to a nearby hospital; however, two of the seven succumbed to their injuries.“A building collapsed following a cylinder blast in Falawada area of the district. Seven people were rescued from the debris and rushed to a hospital. Two of them have succumbed to injuries. An inquiry will be done in this matter,” Senior Superintendent of Police Ajay Sahani told reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meerut-2-killed-five-injured-in-building-collapse-after-cylinder-blast/story-ZWlA86o9nzQOkpqI5DNLoM.html
18-11-2020||India||Maharashtra govt says Varavara Rao ‘fully conscious’, HC seeks reports||The Bombay high court on Tuesday directed Maharashtra government to furnish details of the medical examination of poet P Varavara Rao, arrested in connection with the Bhima Koregaon case.The directions were issued after senior counsel Indira Jaising informed the court that the reports provided to the family of the 81-year-old on Tuesday afternoon did not have details of the tests conducted and lacked his neurology and urology reports.In its report submitted on Tuesday, the Maharashtra government said that Rao is “fully conscious and oriented”.Jaising said that the one-page report provided by the government through WhatsApp had no information regarding dementia and the urinary tract infection which Rao is suffering from.Calling it “an eyewash”, Jaising submitted that the state government was resorting to delaying tactics. Rao is in a critical condition, she said, adding that he should be shifted to the hospital.Rao is currently lodged as an under-trial in the Taloja prison in Navi Mumbai.Jaising told the division bench of justices SS Shinde and Madhav Jamdar that the government had failed to comply with court orders directing Nanavati Hospital, where Rao was treated in July, to conduct a check-up of Rao and submit a report to the court, along with his wife and the NIA.Jaising told the bench that doctors at Nanavati Hospital who had examined Rao on November 12 via a video link, had also suggested that further tests, including a complete blood count and sonography of the abdomen, be done on him.“The state has yet to get the tests done. Besides, the doctors examined Rao through the video link only for 15 minutes. He needs to be examined by specialists. A neurologist needs to examine him physically and these tests can’t be done at the Taloja prison hospital,” Jaising said.“...Rao was not examined by a specialist so how can the video examination tell this court whether he needs to be shifted out of the prison to the hospital?” she said.Since his arrest in June 2018, Rao has been in and out of the government-run JJ hospital in the city. On July 16, he tested positive for coronavirus, after which he was shifted to the Nanavati hospital. He was discharged on July 30 and sent back to the Taloja prison, Jaising said.Rao’s wife has sought that the poet be shifted to Nanavati Hospital in Mumbai, owing to his “diminishing neurological and physical health condition”.The court has directed the state government to provide a detailed report and has posted the hearing for Wednesday.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-govt-says-varavara-rao-fully-conscious-hc-seeks-reports/story-XzfbI7cJghfTjbUHeKCwWL.html
18-11-2020||India||Kerala gold smuggling: ED denies Sivasankar’s allegations of pressure to name political targets||The Enforcement Directorate has denied the allegations levelled by former Principal Secretary of Kerala Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) M Sivasankar, an accused in the Kerala gold smuggling case, that the agency had pressured him to name a few political targets.The ED made the rebuttal in an affidavit filed before a principal sessions court in Kochi on an affidavit filed by Sivasankar, in which he had alleged that he was pressurized to name a few political targets of ED’s choice.“The allegation regarding extortion or pressure for extracting the names of certain political party leaders is made with mala fide intention and is denied as false. Had he any such contentions or apprehension while he was in custody, he would have divulged it at the time or argument,” the economic offences watchdog submitted.It said that these allegations are only an afterthought intentionally made to make false allegations against the investigating agency.Sivasankar had earlier submitted that he was pressurized to name a few political targets, and added that when he refused to do so, he was arrayed as an accused in the money laundering case related to the Kerala gold smuggling case and was arrested.Earlier, the ED had submitted that its investigation in the matter has clearly established the involvement of M Sivasankar in the gold smuggling and also added that the probe has also revealed that he is involved in receiving kickbacks in the LIFE Mission project.M Sivasankar is in judicial custody till November 26 in connection with the case. He was arrested by the ED on October 28.The case, which is currently being probed by the ED, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and the Customs Department, pertains to the smuggling of gold in the state through diplomatic channels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-gold-smuggling-ed-denies-sivasankar-s-allegations-of-pressure-to-name-political-targets/story-3lDxZywewDuSLG7K8CmxmO.html
18-11-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh: Engineer arrested for exploiting 50 children||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) arrested an Uttar Pradesh government employee for allegedly sexually exploiting 50 children between 5 and 16 for a decade and selling videos and photographs of sexual abuse on the dark web to paedophiles across the world, people familiar with the development said on Tuesday.Rambhawan, a junior engineer with the state irrigation department, allegedly victimised children in the districts of Chitrakoot, Banda and Hamirpur. He collected and shared child sexual abuse material (CSAM) with other paedophiles using dark web and cloud services abroad, the people quoted above said on condition of anonymity. “Apart from the physical abuse of these children, the accused also allegedly recorded their acts using their mobile phones, laptops and other electronic devices,” said RK Gaur, CBI spokesperson.Rambhawan, 41, hails from the town of Naraini in Banda district and was posted in Karvi town of Chitrakoot district for the last two years in the irrigation department. Before that, he was posted in Prayagraj. Late in the evening, state jal shakti minister Mahendra Singh said the junior engineer was suspended. The accused was arrested from Banda and charged under the Information Technology Act, Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, and Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). If found guilty, he faces life imprisonment. Amit Kumar, deputy superintendent of police with CBI, said the engineer was arrested on Monday and produced before a court in Banda on Tuesday. Kumar informed the executive engineer of the irrigation department in Karvi, Chitrakoot, about the arrest through a letter, a copy of which is with HT. He was remanded to CBI custody by the Banda court. During searches, the CBI recovered eight mobile phones, around eight lakh rupees in cash, sex toys, laptop, and other digital evidence carrying huge amount of CSAM, officials said.“The accused allegedly used these electronic items and gadgets to lure children falling in the age group of 5-16 years. The scrutiny of the emails of the accused has revealed that he was allegedly in constant touch with several individuals (both Indian and foreign nationals) for the purpose of sharing CSAM”, Gaur said.Gaur said that the accused allegedly created and shared huge quantity of CSAM over the years through the internet using various social media platforms and websites over the dark web ,the portion of the internet not covered by search engines and, hence, mostly beyond access for typical users. Often, dark web sites are used for cyber crime because it cannot be accessed by traditional methods or browsers. “It was alleged that the accused used dark web for sale, transmission and sharing of such CSAM content with other individuals,” added Gaur. A CBI officer who didn’t want to be named said the accused disclosed during interrogation that he used to lure the children with mobile phones and other electronic gadgets.CBI has a special unit called Online Child Sexual Abuse and Exploitation Prevention/ Investigation (OCSAE) for matters pertaining to online child sexual abuse and exploitation. Apart from receiving various references/information, the unit is undertaking investigation of various offences relating to online child sexual abuse and exploitation.People familiar with the development said that the accused junior engineer has been booked under POCSO (prevention of children from sexual offences) act and Information Technology Act. If found guilty, he can face a jail term of life.An official in the UP government said on condition of anonymity that CBI teams were in Chitrakoot for about a month, investigating the engineer and questioning several people, including his driver, people close to him and those who handled or sold him electronic gadgets. Chitrakoot superintendent of police Ankit Mittal said the local police never got any complaint about him sexual abusing children. Child sexual abuse is punishable in India under the 2012 under the 2012 POCSO act and sections of the IPC. According to the National Crime Records Bureau, 126 cases were filed under POCSO every day in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-engineer-arrested-for-exploiting-50-children/story-tOQZsogxvuS5R23QeVuURM.html
18-11-2020||India||Bihar, bypolls: What ails the Congress today?||The National Democratic Alliance’s (NDA) victory after what many believed was a spirited campaign by the Rashtriya Janata Dal’s Tejashwi Yadav has once again reignited the debate on the ability, or the lack of it, of the Congress in stopping the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) juggernaut. While the Congress’s performance isn’t entirely to blame for the NDA’s victory in Bihar, the party performed poorly in other bypolls as well, winning only 12 of the 55 assembly constituencies (ACs) it contested out of the 59 ACs that went to the polls across 11 states. What ails the Congress party today?1) Rahul’s aggression doesn’t inspire confidence anymore...On July 21, 2018, the Opposition brought a no-confidence motion against the Narendra Modi government. There was never any doubt about the government’s survival. The strategy was meant to score a political point. Rahul Gandhi, the then Congress president gave what many believed was a combative speech. He was seen as the natural leader of the Opposition. The Congress’s fortunes peaked by the end of 2018. It wrested Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh from the BJP, and looked all set to make impressive gains in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections compared to its 2014 performance. This was not to be. The Congress performed as poorly in 2019 as it had in 2014. Gandhi himself lost the Amethi Lok Sabha seat, considered a Congress bastion. The continuous dip in his electoral performance in Amethi, from 2009 to 2019, raises question about his popular appeal. !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();  2) The Congress national leadership is falling short...One of the most counter-intuitive results of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections was the sharp drop in the Congress’s performance in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, and Chhattisgarh. The 2018 assembly election results, when extrapolated into Lok Sabha seats, would have meant 12 seats in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan and 10 seats in Chhattisgarh for the party. In the 2019 elections, the Congress could win only two Lok Sabha seats in Chhattisgarh and one in Madhya Pradesh. It failed to win even one seat in Rajasthan. A pre-2019 results analysis by Gilles Verniers of Ashoka University found that in 80% of the cases, the party that won the state election went on to win the state in the following general elections. In other words, the Congress went against the trend by performing badly in these three states. To be sure, the BJP has enjoyed an additional vote share in national elections in both 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha elections. This is widely attributed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s popularity. There is a yearning within the Congress, and the entire Opposition, for a leader who can match Modi’s appeal. This is the root of the despondency in the opposition ranks. The Congress leadership has failed to live up to this challenge. !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();  3) Central and state units appear out of sync...At a time when the entire Opposition, including the Congress, is finding it difficult to match Modi’s national appeal, the party’s national leadership could have adopted a more participative style of functioning to attack the government, both within and outside Parliament. This is being rendered difficult because of a growing asymmetry in the Congress’s support base and national leadership. In the 2019 elections, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Maharashtra contributed almost half (44.5%) of the Congress’s total votes. The share of these states in the party’s total Lok Sabha MPs was just 5.8%. The 2019 scenario looks drastically different from 1984, when there was an almost perfect correlation between share of states in the Congress’s votes and seats. If big support bases of the party do not find a reflection of their concerns in the national strategy, unrest and despondency are bound to grow. !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();   !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();  4) Shrinking footprint limiting the ability to accommodate personal ambitions...Organisational leadership of a party is not just about leading interparty competition. It also involves the delicate task of managing intraparty conflicts, factionalism, and personal ambition of leaders. The Congress is facing a huge crisis on this front. In Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh, the party lost state governments due to internal issues. In Rajasthan, a similar crisis erupted, but has been averted for the time being. The roots of these ruptures are the same — growing differences between leaders. The all-India leadership of the party is in no position to resolve these, as it has little to offer (such as, say, a governorship, a central portfolio or even a Rajya Sabha seat). A good way to look at this is to track the decline in the number of Rajya Sabha MPs the Congress has sent to the Upper House in each decade. !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-bypolls-what-ails-the-congress-today/story-rVKcIwFkgTV97B4rYbgzsO.html
18-11-2020||India||PM Modi slams Pakistan as terror, vaccine top Brics agenda||As the Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (Brics) grouping adopted a new counter-terrorism strategy on Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi called for countries that help and support terrorists to be held guilty. Participating in the virtual Brics Summit chaired by Russian President Vladimir Putin, Modi also called on members of the grouping to back a move by India and South Africa to secure exemption of Covid-19 vaccines from intellectual property agreements. Multilateralism, Modi said, is facing a crisis and questions are being raised about the functioning of global institutions since they haven’t kept pace with the times and are based on the mindset of 75 years ago. In a tacit reference to Pakistan-backed terrorism, Modi, who was speaking in Hindi, said: “Terrorism is the biggest problem the world is facing today. We must ensure that countries that help and support terrorists are also held guilty and this problem is dealt with in an organised manner.” He described the finalisation of the Brics Counter-Terrorism Strategy as an “important achievement” and said India, as the chair of Brics from next year, will take this work forward. In a subsequent intervention, Modi suggested the national security advisers of Brics states should discuss the formulation of a counter-terrorism action plan. The Brics Counter-Terrorism Strategy, which will allow member states to work out common measures and coordinate more closely at the UN and other forums and promote the implementation of UN’s global counter-terrorism strategy, was adopted at the conclusion of the summit. Modi’s remarks on terrorism were endorsed by Putin, who said some countries were like the “black sheep of the family” and the world cannot afford any complacency in dealing with problems such as terrorism and the pandemic. With a group of developing nations led by India and South Africa set to urge the World Trade Organization (WTO) this week to waive patent protections for Covid-19 vaccines so that they become accessible to poor countries, Modi said: “India and South Africa have proposed that Covid-19 vaccines and treatments be exempted from intellectual property agreements. We hope that other Brics countries will support this.”  He added that India’s vaccine production and delivery capacity will be used to benefit humankind. Among Brics countries, Russia has approved a vaccine for the disease although experts say this has been done without adequate testing, and China has granted emergency approval to three vaccines, including one meant for only military personnel. India has three vaccines that are in human trials. Also Read: BRICS countries urge for joint global effort to combat terrorismWTO laws allow compulsory licensing, where a member country has the right to licence the use of a patented drug or vaccine to a local company or even an arm of the government even if the patent holder does not agree to this. However, this can be done only under some conditions and will also require the patent holder to be compensated adequately. Noting that significant geo-strategic changes taking place around the world will impact security, stability and growth, Modi said Brics countries will play an important role in tackling these issues. The multilateral system is going through a crisis and questions are being raised about the credibility of global institutions since they haven’t changed with the times and are operating with outdated mindsets, he said. Besides the UN Security Council, reforms are needed in the WTO, IMF and WHO, he added. Also Read| Govt will leave no stone unturned to make India preferred global investment destination: PM ModiThe Brics countries, with 42% of the global population, will play a key role in post-Covid-19 economic recovery and there is scope to increase mutual trade, Modi said. India’s Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative, which aims to make the country self-reliant and resilient, can be a force multiplier for the post-Covid-19 economy and contribute to global supply chains, he added. Together, Brics countries account for 33% of global GDP and close to 20% of global trade, with China’s presence in the grouping skewing these numbers. This was the second time in a week that Modi and President Xi Jinping were on the same virtual platform since the India-China border standoff emerged in the open in May. The theme for the Brics Summit was “Global stability, shared security and innovative growth” and its agenda included global issues such as reforming the multilateral system and measures to mitigate the impact of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-slams-pakistan-as-terror-vaccine-top-brics-agenda/story-j3xc9LATr94AFyWqLB4flO.html
18-11-2020||India||In a first, farmer sues traders under new law, gets dues||A maize grower from Maharashtra has become the first person to invoke a provision in one of the three recently enacted farm reform laws , suing two traders for not paying money owed him for sale of produce and forcing the food merchants to clear an outstanding bill of Rs 285,000, according to documents reviewed by HT. The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, one of the laws passed in September to free up agricultural trade in the country, makes it compulsory for buyers to pay cultivators “within three days” of a transaction. Farmers in some states, especially Punjab, are protesting the farm laws, fearing that these could erode their bargaining power and create a monopoly for big firms in the long run. For Maharashtra cultivator Jitendra Bhoi, however, the law proved effective in making wholesale food aggregators, who often make peasants run after them for payments, clear dues promptly. “Before The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020 was enacted this September, India did not have legal mechanism available for farmers to enforce time-bound payments,” an official of the agriculture ministry said, requesting anonymity. Also Read: Maharashtra Congress collects 58.77 lakh signatures to protest against farm, labour lawsBhoi raised a maize crop this summer in his 18-acre farm in Bhatane village of Shirpur tehsil in the state’s Dhule district. A tehsil refers to a civil administrative zone. On July 19, the farmer prepared to sell 270.95 quintal (100 kg each) of corn at a rate of Rs 1,240 per quintal to two traders, Subhash Vani and Arun Vani. The traders belonged to adjoining Khetia village across the border from Maharashtra, in Madhya Pradesh’s Barwani district. The total transaction value was fixed at Rs 332,617, according to Bhoi’s complaint before the subdivisional magistrate of Pansemal tehsil, which HT has seen. The traders picked the entire produce, making a token payment of Rs 25,000 and promising to pay the rest within 15 days. In his complaint, the farmer enclosed receipts of the transaction showing the outstanding amount. Bhoi approached authorities in the first week of October, after payments were delayed by nearly four months. “A clerk I know in the local market alerted me to this provision in new laws brought by the government. He said traders must now pay within three days. I then decided to file a complaint,” Bhoi told HT over phone. According to Section 8 of The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, “The Sub-Divisional Authority shall decide the dispute or contravention under this section in a summary manner within thirty days from the date of its filing and after giving the parties an opportunity of being heard…” Simply put, in case of payment disputes between a farmer and a trader in new free markets provided for by the recent laws, a magistrate must settle the transaction row within a month. Also Read: ‘Angry’ over farm bills, Punjab records highest stubble burning cases in 4 yearsActing on the farmer’s complaint, authorities traced the traders, summoning them on October 6. They faced prospects of criminal action, including arrest. “After studying the case, listening to the farmer, and going through documents, it has been ordered by me that the buyers must make immediate payments owed to the farmer,” the magistrate’s closure report filed before collector Shivraj Singh Verma on November 5 said. The proceedings compelled traders Subhash Vani and Aun Vani to renegotiate the total pending amount to slightly less than initially agreed, paying the new outstanding in two instalments. The case was closed on November 4. “Dispute resolution at the local magistrate’s level helps avoid the hassles of approaching courts. But it’s really a question of how aware farmers are,” said Anand Yagnik, a lawyer who successfully fought a case in 2018 against suppliers of sub-standard cotton seeds to growers in Maharashtra’s Yavatmal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-a-first-farmer-sues-traders-under-new-law-gets-dues/story-ZC12X1nMl13Ssiby04Mx2M.html
18-11-2020||India||India pins hopes on locally-tested Covid-19 vaccines given Pfizer constraints||India hopes five locally-tested vaccines will help it to control Covid-19, as those developed by Pfizer and Moderna may not be available to it in big quantities soon.The five candidates include Russia’s Sputnik-V whose “Phase-II going to Phase-III” trials in India will start next week in collaboration with Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, Vinod Paul, the head of a committee advising the prime minister, said.The other experimental vaccines are the one being developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University which is being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India; Bharat Biotech and the Indian government’s COVAXIN; Zydus Cadila’s ZyCoV-D and lastly one being developed by Biological E. Ltd alongside Baylor College of Medicine and Dynavax Technologies Corp.Paul told a news briefing that AstraZeneca vaccine’s last-stage trials in India had gone well and had almost been completed. The country of 1.35 billion people has reported 8.87 million infections, second only to the United States, and 130,519 deaths as a result of Covid-19.“We are very hopeful that we will be successful with the five vaccines,” Paul said on Tuesday. “They are easy platforms, availability of doses is very high. They will be able to control our pandemic in terms of the numbers of doses required.”Paul said the government was also watching the progress of the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines, both of which have said interim results of last-stage trials of their candidates showed that they were more than 90% effective.Unlike Pfizer’s vaccine which must be kept at minus 70 degrees Celsius or below, Moderna’s can be stored at normal fridge temperatures, making it more suited for poorer countries such as India where cold chains are limited.“This obviously will be a very big hindrance to scale up the vaccine,” Paul said of Pfizer’s, adding that if India finds itself needing to do so it will pursue this option.“If we are required to form our strategy on this particular vaccine, then we will proceed with it. Though, even if we get it, we will get it in a few months only. But talks are ongoing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-pins-hopes-on-locally-tested-covid-19-vaccines-given-pfizer-constraints/story-FyHf5xgkBnRqdKoyzO8ABI.html
18-11-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Delhi is in the grip of a third wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), but what of the rest of India?On Monday, India recorded 27,968 cases of Covid-19, according to the HT dashboard. Recorded cases typically lag tests by a day, so some credit for the low number of cases should go to the corresponding low number of tests conducted on Sunday (735,551; as compared to an average of 1,098,200 every weekday last week). India conducted only 674,020 tests on Monday, a public holiday in many parts of the country. Not surprisingly, on Tuesday, the country recorded 38,599 new cases. France recorded 27,228 cases on November 15, according to the NYT database. On Monday, the United Kingdom recorded 21,363 cases, Italy 27,352, and the US 166,581.Despite the temporary anomalies created by low testing over the weekend and on Monday in India, it is entirely possible that the number of daily case numbers in some European countries will overtake that in the country if they continue on their current trajectory. According to the Johns Hopkins Coronavirus Research Center, India and Germany are the only two, among the 10 worst-affected countries currently, whose case trajectory is trending south.Also Read: Volunteers still needed to test variety of coronavirus vaccinesIndia’s, especially, has been trending south consistently since mid-September. Between early August and mid-October, India’s daily case numbers (on the boil in that period) were higher than those in the US too. And in absolute terms, India’s numbers are where they were in July.India’s trajectory presents an interesting visual study — it stayed flat (and this is even more marked when seven-day averages are considered) for almost two weeks in late October and the first half of November. This usually means the end of one wave, and the beginning of the next. Instead, perhaps because of the spate of public holidays that followed — Saturday was Diwali, and Monday was Bhai Dooj, making it a three-day weekend for testing — the numbers have fallen further.Disregarding this, this columnist is beginning to see the beginning of the second wave in the country. This is an early call (and a worrying one). It is based on data, though. There has been a rise in daily new cases over the past two weeks (again, I’ve disregarded data of the past three days) in Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, and Rajasthan. Interestingly, three of these states, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, were early hot spots of the coronavirus disease in the country. It stands to reason that if there is a temporal pattern to the trajectory of the pandemic, then these states should register it first.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThis prediction comes with a caveat, though, one that has to do with the prevalence of the infection in a region. This is a parameter best captured through widespread antibody testing — popularly called sero surveys in India. Such surveys test for Covid-19 antibodies, and their presence usually indicates exposure to, and therefore, immunity, even if only temporary, from the disease. I say usually because researchers are learning that certain populations or population segments have antibodies that recognise and fight the Sars-CoV-2 virus without having been exposed to it — one reason proffered by some for low fatality rates in parts of Africa.Unfortunately, India has been remiss with such surveys. While the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) mandated that each of the 700-odd districts in the country conduct sero surveys regularly, few have done so. The result is a patchwork of data that confuses more than it enlightens.Also Read| Covid-19 in US: States plead for more federal help as virus outbreak worsensThere is another reason why I think India is seeing the beginning of a second wave, which will become evident within the next fortnight — in countries that have seen second (and in some cases third) waves, these have been preceded by the easing of restrictions, holidays and celebrations that witnessed social gatherings, or large public events. Most parts of India have seen all, or at least some of these, over the past two months and especially in recent weeks. I’d love to be wrong about this, though.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-HfHIHD5mAQqZpTIjfFflzI.html
18-11-2020||India||35-year-old man arrested for rape and murder of 5-year-old girl in Odisha||Four days after the mutilated body of a five-year-old girl was found in a nullah in Dhenkanal district of Odisha, police on Tuesday said they have arrested a 35-year-old man who is distant relative of the victim on charges of rape and murder.The body of the girl was found in a nullah at Kharakhari village in Kankadahada block of Dhenkanal district on November 13, a day after she went missing. Kamakhyanagar sub divisional police officer S Mallick said the accused Shankarshana Dehuri had raped and then battered the girl to death.“The accused is a distant uncle of the victim and used to visit the girl’s house. On November 12 evening, he took the girl and another boy to a nearby place on the pretext of buying some snacks for them. After having snacks, he asked the boy to go while he kept carrying the girl in his arms. No one saw the girl after that,” said Mallick.Police zeroed in on the suspect after questioning a number of shopkeepers at the village market and some others.The girl’s body was found on the morning of November 13. During the interrogation, the accused confessed to have battered the child after sexually assaulting her, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/35-year-old-man-arrested-for-rape-and-murder-of-5-year-old-girl-in-odisha/story-3vrUrZq4RSR2Z9IDhuUnbP.html
18-11-2020||India||GoAir flight from Riyadh to Delhi makes emergency landing in Karachi||A GoAir Riyadh-Delhi flight diverted to the Karachi airport on Tuesday after a medical emergency was reported onboard, according to news agency ANI. The flight landed safely at the Jinnah International Airport in Karachi, an airline official said. Some reports stated that the flight G8- 6658A- took off from Riyadh on Tuesday afternoon but had to make an emergency landing after a 30 year old passenger fainted and died on board due to cardiac arrest. Meanwhile, the flight has taken off and would land at the Indira Gandhi International Airport in New Delhi shortly. More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goair-flight-from-riyadh-to-delhi-makes-emergency-landing-in-karachi/story-H9c5Ia4yBI6zTJmXLwHusL.html
18-11-2020||India||Will work closely on shared global challenges, says Biden in phone call with Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and US president-elect Joe Biden on Tuesday said they would work closely to advance the bilateral comprehensive global strategic partnership and to cooperate in areas ranging from post-Covid-19 recovery to the Indo-Pacific. During a phone conversation with Biden, Modi discussed the shared concerns and priorities of India and the US. He also congratulated Biden on his election, describing it as “testament to the strength and resilience of democratic traditions in the US”, according to a readout from the external affairs ministry. “The leaders agreed to work closely to further advance the India-US comprehensive global strategic partnership, built on shared values and common interests,” the readout said. They also discussed their priorities, “including containing the Covid-19 pandemic, promoting access to affordable vaccines, tackling climate change, and cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region”. Modi recalled his earlier interactions with Biden, including during his official visits to the US in 2014 and 2016. Biden had chaired the joint session of the US Congress addressed by Modi during the 2016 visit. The president-elect expressed his desire to strengthen and expand the US-India strategic partnership alongside the first vice president of South Asian descent Kamala Harris, according to a statement by his transition team.“The president-elect noted that he looks forward to working closely with the prime minister on shared global challenges, including containing Covid-19 and defending against future health crises, tackling the threat of climate change, launching the global economic recovery, strengthening democracy at home and abroad, and maintaining a secure and prosperous Indo-Pacific region,” the statement read.The Prime Minister also extended congratulations and best wishes to vice president-elect Kamala Harris, the first woman and also the first person of Indian-American origin to be elected to the position. “Spoke to US President-elect @JoeBiden on phone to congratulate him. We reiterated our firm commitment to the Indo-US strategic partnership and discussed our shared priorities and concerns – Covid-19 pandemic, climate change, and cooperation in the Indo-Pacific Region,” Modi tweeted. “I also conveyed warm congratulations for VP-elect @KamalaHarris. Her success is a matter of great pride and inspiration for members of the vibrant Indian-American community, who are a tremendous source of strength for Indo-US relations,” he said in a second tweet. Earlier, Modi had congratulated Biden and Harris on Twitter on November 8, when it became clear the Democratic Party candidate was set to clinch the presidential election. He had lauded Biden on a “spectacular victory” and described his contributions as the former vice president to strengthening Indo-US relations as “critical and invaluable”. He had added, “I look forward to working closely together once again to take India-US relations to greater heights.” On the same day, Modi had also congratulated Harris through a tweet, saying: “Your success is pathbreaking, and a matter of immense pride not just for your chittis, but also for all Indian-Americans. I am confident that the vibrant India-US ties will get even stronger with your support and leadership.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-dials-joe-biden-discusses-shared-concerns-and-priorities/story-3zj79DwSap19poYJUWSKGM.html
18-11-2020||India||Rape victim set ablaze by accused’s family in UP’s Bulandshahr dies in Delhi hospital||A teenage rape victim, who was allegedly set afire by the rapist’s family in a village in Jahangirabad area of Bulandshahr district of Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday morning, succumbed to injuries during treatment at Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital later in the day, police said. The family of the deceased has accused the uncle of the rapist and other family members of setting the girl on fire after they failed to persuade her for a compromise. In her dying statement, the girl accused Sanjay, uncle of the rapist, and other family members of setting her on fire, police said. Later, her family also lodged a case of murder in the Jahangirabad police station against Sanjay, his wife Kajal and five other persons accusing them of setting the girl on fire after failing in their efforts to convince her for a compromise despite mounting pressure.Bulandshahar’s senior superintendent of police S K Singh said initially it was said that the girl had set herself on fire. He said the family later accused Sanjay and six others of setting the girl on fire and a case was registered against the accused on the basis of the complaint. “We are investigating the charges,” said Singh, who suspended beat sub inspector Vinaykant Gautam and beat constable Vikrant Tomar and sent SHO Vivek Sharma of Jahangirabad police station to police lines. The SSP said three accused named in the FIR have been arrested and raids are being conducted to arrest the remaining accused. Singh said a rape case was registered on the girl’s complaint on August 15 and the accused was arrested the same day. Singh added the accused worked as a caretaker of an orchard in the girl’s village. Earlier on Monday, a 19-year-old law student, who was allegedly gang-raped on October 16, died by suicide in Anoopshahar area of the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rape-victim-set-ablaze-by-accused-s-family-in-up-s-bulandshahr-dies-in-delhi-hospital/story-Jkb5t8Aa2yU7s5cealrvcK.html
18-11-2020||India||Inform us about mechanism to deal with fake news: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the Centre to provide information on the existing legal regime to deal with complaints about the content on television channels and said that the government should consider setting up a regulatory mechanism to do this if one doesn’t already exist. It also expressed displeasure with an affidavit filed by the Centre highlighting the various advisories issued time to time to curb fake news. “What is shown by the television channels has a great consequence in this country...We want to know what legal regime exists to deal with such complaints (of fake news) and how these complaints have been dealt with in the past,” a three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde said, giving three weeks’ time to the Centre to file a fresh affidavit in this regard. The court was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind and other parties, who objected to the reporting by certain television news channels and news portals on the Tablighi Jamaat event in March. After the religious gathering, the Nizamuddin markaz — where it was held — emerged as one of the early hot spots of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the national capital. On October 8, when the court last heard the PIL , the bench asked the Centre to file a response on steps taken to ensure fake news is not circulated through online and electronic media platforms. The government, through the ministry of information and broadcasting, filed an affidavit on November 13 and cited its advisories. The bench, also comprising Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, found the affidavit unsatisfactory. “In your affidavit there is not a whisper about what action you have taken under the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act. Further, there is no mention about any authority entrusted to go into these complaints (of fake news). We are disappointed with this reply,” the bench told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta.This was the second affidavit the government filed in response to the PIL. An earlier affidavit by the Union Government on August 6 was also found to be short of details when it comes to action taken against erring websites and news channels for fake news. “Freedom of speech is one of the most abused freedoms of recent times,” the court observed on October 8. Mehta, who appeared for the Centre, informed the bench on Tuesday that the November 13 affidavit is sufficient and answers all queries by the court. However, he agreed to supplement it with the fresh information sought by the bench. Mehta said that the Centre has power to prohibit content on television channels, which are found to be violative of a programme code. For this, there is a committee, which has members from outside the Information and Broadcasting Ministry who watch the content and give their opinion, Mehta said. “There has to be a mechanism provided by you. Today, there is a situation that we have to ask a private body – News Broadcasting Standards Authority — to examine the issue. If you are not willing to examine, we will ask the outside agency; then don’t complain,” the bench observed. Advocate Ejaz Maqbool, appearing for the Jamiat Ulama i-Hind, agreed to file a response to the Centre’s affidavit. The court posted the matter for hearing after three weeks. The petition filed by Jamiat sought directions from the court “to stop the dissemination of fake news and take strict action against sections of the media spreading bigotry and communal hatred in relation to the coverage of Nizamuddin markaz event”. The latest affidavit of the Centre said that media outlets at large – both print and online — have responsibly covered the event. The Centre accused the petitioner of picking out some news reports to seek pre-telecast ban on airing of content. “The petitioner has selectively picked up a few articles / reports appearing in some of the web portals and private fact check portals to create an impression that the media had communalized the issue of Tablighi Jamaat and to create a false narative about the role of media,” the November 13 affidavit said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/inform-us-about-mechanism-to-deal-with-fake-news-sc/story-9ga2KHfp8L7142dovyC2cI.html
18-11-2020||India||PM Modi speaks to Joe Biden, wishes Kamala Harris; discusses Covid-19 pandemic, climate change||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on late Tuesday night wished United States President-elect Joe Biden and congratulated him on his victory in the recently concluded Presidential polls, underlining increased focus on Indo-US ties. “Spoke to US President-elect @JoeBiden on phone to congratulate him. We reiterated our firm commitment to the Indo-US strategic partnership and discussed our shared priorities and concerns - Covid-19 pandemic, climate change, and cooperation in the Indo-Pacific Region,” PM Modi said in a tweet on Tuesday.  Spoke to US President-elect @JoeBiden on phone to congratulate him. We reiterated our firm commitment to the Indo-US strategic partnership and discussed our shared priorities and concerns - Covid-19 pandemic, climate change, and cooperation in the Indo-Pacific Region.The prime minister also wished Indian-origin US Vice President-elect Kamala Harris on her election to the US White House and country’s second highest office. “I also conveyed warm congratulations for VP-elect @KamalaHarris. Her success is a matter of great pride and inspiration for members of the vibrant Indian-American community, who are a tremendous source of strength for Indo-US relations.”Also read: Indo-US ties will pick up, Joe Biden no stranger to India, says S JaishankarPM Modi’s call comes almost ten days after both the newly elected Democrat officials won in a tightly fought Presidential race with Republican nominee President Donald Trump. Earlier in the day, external affairs minister S Jaishankar had indicated swift action in strengthening ties with the US administration and established old ties the country has with Biden. Jaishankar said that the President-elect Biden is “not a stranger to India or to the relationship” and India has dealt with him in his former roles as vice president in the Barack Obama administration. The Indian government will face no problems in taking forward ties with the US under the Joe Biden administration because of the strong element of bipartisan support for the bilateral relationship, external affairs minister S Jaishankar had said. “I am very confident that we will pick up where we left off (with the Donald Trump administration), we have done that over the last four administrations,” Jaishankar said while participating in an online discussion organised by the think tanks Centre for International Governance Innovation and Gateway House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-wishes-joe-biden-kamala-harris-discusses-covid-19-pandemic-climate-change/story-HZa1uUMX8FnJptIJN8eKrJ.html
18-11-2020||India||Data Protection Bill: JPC summons Visa, Mastercard officials||The joint parliamentary committee (JPC) on the data protection bill has summoned representatives of Visa and Mastercard, a move that suggests the panel could shift its focus to provisions regarding data localisation in the draft law. The panel has questioned officials of social media and internet giants such as Twitter and Google. According to market researches, India has 47 million credit card users in 2019 and is poised to grow substantially with the government’s push for a cashless economy. Debit card usage, however, remains at a higher level. While Visa is the world’s largest payment gateway services, Mastercard stands a close second. In India, the government-backed Rupay dented the market share of the both Visa and Mastercard. In 2018, then finance minister Arun Jaitley said the indigenously developed payment system of UPI and RUPAY Card transact 65 % of the payments done through debit and credit cards. Led by BJP MP Meenaskhi Lekhi, the panel will also summon Paypal, another popular payment gateway, and Cyble, a cyber threat intelligence firm. Cyble has been in controversy of late after reporting the alleged breach of user data in BigBasket, which in turn lodged an FIR suggesting the company may be attempting to extort money in order to secure user data now purportedly on sale on the dark web. So far, US-based tech companies and social media giants have opposed the data localisation provisions of the bill and maintained that any attempt to stop cross-border transfer of user data can impact business prospects in India and affect several startup companies. The draft data protection law, which will serve as a key legal basis for the right to privacy in India, requires companies to keep a copy of all personal data of Indian users in India. A previous version of the law, drafted by the committee led by justice BN Srikrishna, suggested that all personal data must mandatorily be stored and processed in India. The 2019 draft bill allows companies to take such data, as long as it is not deemed critical, for processing in servers outside India after obtaining consent.This has significant implications for companies that use cloud services, which is a network of for-hire servers often based outside of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/data-protection-bill-jpc-summons-visa-mastercard-officials/story-ps0Bb2ZRRPKqaTJjDrcidL.html
18-11-2020||India||Random Covid-19 test for Delhi to Noida commuters from today: All you need to know||In an order passed on Tuesday, people travelling from Delhi to Noida will be tested for Covid-19 symptoms on a random basis as the coronavirus disease outbreak has grown at an unforeseen scale in the national capital. The move, seen as a combative measure amid the recent rise in cases of Covid-19, has been dubbed as a helpful measure to assess the spread of viral contagion as it would help in issuing advisories to employers and organisations, where a large number of people work and commute between Noida and adjoining areas, the officials said. Here is everything you need to know about the move affecting Delhi-NCR residents:- The random sampling will be done by a rapid antigen-based test. - There will be no restriction on free movement of people between Noida and Delhi.- Only a few randomly selected commuters will be tested under this drill and not all commuters.- The decision has been taken due to an increase in Covid-19 cases in Gautam Buddh Nagar and is a part of a comprehensive strategy to fight the pandemic which has returned in the district. - Teams will be deployed at Noida-Delhi borders at DND and Chilla to randomly check people coming from Delhi for the Covid-19 infection. - All institutions in Gautam Budhh Nagar will be issued advisory to look out for symptomatic people, track them early and provide them with whatever treatment is required, officials have said. - People will have to follow all Covid-19 protocols like wearing masks or covers, practicing social distancing in public places and avoiding casual approach against the infection, officials have appealed again. Delhi has recorded over one lakh new coronavirus cases and around 1,200 deaths between November 1 and November 16 while nearly 94,000 patients recovered during the same period, according to official data.The national capital has witnessed a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases since October 28 when the daily rise breached the 5,000-mark for the first time and it crossed the 8,000-mark on November 11. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/random-covid-19-test-for-delhi-to-noida-commuters-from-wednesday-all-you-need-to-know/story-PdlsajfsM9RtPoZvofzvSP.html
18-11-2020||India||‘A good vaccine is...’: Adar Poonawalla’s cryptic tweet has many targets||Moderna and Pfizer’s announcement of the safety percentage of their vaccine candidates has intensified the vaccine battle. Serum Institute of India’s CEo Adar Poonawalla on Tuesday took to Twitter and reminded that a good vaccine may not be the one that comes first. A good vaccine has four attributes, Poonawalla tweeted. It has to be safe, it should offer long-term protection against the targetted disease, it should be transported and stored at a manageable temperature. And lastly, it should be affordable to all of humanity, Poonawalla wrote.  Definition of a good vaccine =1. Safe 2. Offers long-term protection against targetted disease3. Can be transported and stored at a manageable temperature4. Affordable to all of humanityLatest to the ongoing vaccine developments, Pfizer and BioNTech SE last week said their vaccine candidate was found to be more than 90 per cent effective in preventing Covid-19. Moderna on Monday said its vaccine candidate against Covid-19, found it to have an efficacy of 94.5 per cent. The vaccines are at present waiting for the approval of the regulatory body. However, medical experts are not sure whether Pfizer vaccine would be helpful to poorer nations as the vaccine shot needs minus 70 degrees Celsius temperature. In normal medical refrigerator temperature, Pfizer vaccine can be stored for five days.Major hospitals in the United States have said they don’t have the storage facility as required for Pfizer vaccine. Without taking any name, Poonawalla indicated that a good vaccine can’t be so difficult to store. Earlier, the CEO of the world’s largest vaccine producer — by the volume — had said to the Washington Post that vaccines that require ultra-cold storage are ‘joke’. “Nobody wants a vaccine that is only going to protect you for a few months,” he had said. Serum Institute had earlier said that their vaccine will be priced at Rs 224 per dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-good-vaccine-is-adar-poonawalla-s-cryptic-tweet-has-many-targets/story-vzMZlUZcTof9vwesKbAleI.html
