24-11-2020||News||Becoming a court of all citizens||In 1944, at the height of the World War II, the best judge not appointed to the United States Supreme Court, Justice Learned Hand, was welcoming new citizens, who were taking the oath of citizenship. In a classic oration, which became famous as the Spirit of Liberty address, he told them: “Liberty lies in the hearts of men and women; when it dies there, no constitution, no law, no court can save it; no constitution, no law, no court can even do much to help it.”Earlier this year, Sadhana Ramachandran and I were appointed by the Supreme Court (SC) to be interlocutors for the protesters at Shaheen Bagh. The first day of the interlocution was very important. We would not have a second chance to make a good first impression. While talking to the protesters, we went prepared to talk to formidable grandmothers who had become the face of the movement. However, it was two young burkha-clad grand-daughters who made a significant impact.One of them said: “We are sitting here for our rights. Instead of acknowledging and clearing our doubts, we were defamed, maligned and abuses were hurled at us... The government should be ashamed.” She broke down and asked us: “It is being argued that people are facing inconvenience? Are we not the people of India? Is our inconvenience lesser than those who are unable to use the road? We are out on the road because the government is not listening to us. ...We are thankful to the court that they listened to us.” Referencing Justice Hand, I replied, “Liberty lies in the heart of men and women. Till we have youth like you who are out on the streets with the sacred book of Constitution in their hand, we will remain independent. I really appreciate your intellect and articulation”.My answer did much to break the ice with the crowd, who had made the Indian Constitution go viral on the streets. The national flag and the Constitution’s Preamble had become symbols of resistance against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. Demonstrations, throughout India, had begun with recitations of the Preamble and then segued into flag marches with the Tricolour. While the virality of the Constitution and the fight for its values have currently been displaced from the streets by the Covid-19 pandemic, I suspect that the spirit of liberty has not been effaced from the hearts of Indian men and women. The Constitution is now a public scripture whose working interpretation is sanctified by public acclaim. It, is therefore, no surprise to me that SC’s reported disinclination to entertain Article 32 petitions has raised a furore.To be fair to the Chief Justice who articulated the proposition, there is nothing new that he has said. The court has traditionally not entertained Article 32 petitions, when effective alternative remedies are available. The court has preferred to direct petitioners to high courts (HCs), which have a wider jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution. If HCs make an error, SC can always correct it, in appeal, but the converse is not possible. An error by SC, in its writ jurisdiction, is incapable of correction by any other court. Lastly, the exercise in the first instance by SC of its writ jurisdiction, in a case that should have gone to a HC, renders HCs otiose, in the enforcement of constitutional order. But even a right position, articulated at the wrong time, can be greatly misunderstood.In 1973, Justice SN Dwivedi observed in the Keshavananda Bharati case: “The Constitution is not intended to be the arena of legal quibbling for men with long purses. It is made for the common people. It should generally be so construed that they can understand and appreciate it.”Currently, SC’s restricted construing of Article 32 seems to run contrary to the temper of the times. In the past year, on the streets of India, its people have negated the grim foreboding expressed by Somnath Lahiri in the Constituent Assembly who felt that, “many of these fundamental rights have been framed from the point of view of a police constable”. According to him, every guaranteed right was negated by a proviso.A pandemic of rights having broken out, the constitutional courts cannot by proviso, take away an expectation of basic fairness. They cannot negate the promise of liberty and equality in the Constitution’s Preamble. Today the citizen is bewildered that while she can move the court, the court can remain still in her case, but move extremely speedily in respect of some others. Her confusion is worse when she is asked to remain in prison and secure bail, through a lengthy process of submission, while others triumphantly check out from prison, as if returning from a short, enforced vacation.If SC’s role as a protector of personal liberty is to mean anything at all, it must be equal in application when it comes to the aid of all citizens. It cannot look away from endless pre-trial detentions without any possibility of bail. It must be a court of all people and not only a court for people who matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/becoming-a-court-of-all-citizens/story-FyQPWlDJzcIIj0d3WNG2iN.html
24-11-2020||News||When China wanted to make peace with India||In April 1960, Zhou Enlai embarked on an ambitious diplomatic mission to India to attempt a resolution. Let us recall the context. The previous year, Sino-Soviet differences had come to the fore, ironically because Moscow publicly broke ranks with Beijing by taking a neutral position on the India-China dispute, and by the first half of 1960, Moscow had withdrawn its experts from China and suspended all economic contracts. The year 1959 had also witnessed two border skirmishes between India and China, including an especially nasty one in the western sector in Ladakh where nearly a dozen Indian security personnel were killed during a patrol in October.As a consequence, the Chinese had come under pressure, particularly from the Soviets. In a rather heated conversation between Nikita Khrushchev and Mao Zedong shortly after that skirmish, the Soviets came down hard on the Chinese for escalating the dispute:Mao Zedong: “Nehru also says that the events in Tibet occurred on our fault. Besides, in the Soviet Union they published a TASS declaration on the issue of conflict with India.”NS Khrushchev: “Do you really want us to approve of your conflict with India? It would be stupid on our part.”NS Khrushchev: “...If you allow him (Dalai Lama) an opportunity to flee to India, then what has Nehru to do with it? We believe that the events in Tibet are the fault of the Communist Party of China, not Nehru’s fault.”(After an intense exchange, Mao placates the Soviets and promises a peaceful settlement.)Mao Zedong: “You will see for yourselves later that the McMahon line with India will be maintained, and the border conflict with India will end...The border issue with India will be decided through negotiations.”It was in such a backdrop that Beijing made a decision in January 1960 to take a more pragmatic line on the dispute with India as well as other unresolved frontier disputes with neighbouring countries. The People’s Liberation Army (PLA) was also ordered to adopt a policy of restraint and avoid armed clashes. Mao sensed that China was facing a difficult international environment and, therefore, decided to seek a negotiated settlement.This basic sense of insecurity is reflected in a May 1959 Chinese note to India, which might have been personally drafted by Mao.“The enemy of the Chinese people lies in the east — the US imperialists have many military based in Taiwan, in South Korea, Japan and in the Philippines which are all directed against China. China’s main attention and policy to struggle are directed to the east, to the west Pacific region, to the vicious and aggressive US imperialism, and not to India or any other country in the southeast Asia and South Asia....our principal enemy is US imperialism...China will not be so foolish as to antagonize India in the west. Our Indian friends! What is [on] your mind? Will you be agreeing to our thinking regarding the view that China can only concentrate its main attention eastward of China, but not south-westwards of China, nor is it necessary for it to do so. Friends! It seems to us that you too cannot have two fronts. Is it not so? If it is, here then lies the meeting point of our two sides. Will you please think it over?”But Jawaharlal Nehru felt this Chinese telegram had been “discourteous” and he rebuffed the implied suggestion to stabilise the crisis with China. Foreign minister Chen Yi was equally candid when he shared Chinese threat perceptions to Swaran Singh in April 1960. Chen candidly admitted, “Our relations with the US and Japan in the east are tense. It would be stupid if we created a tense situation with India in the west also. The USA has its bases around us, atomic missiles and atomic weapons around us. Our dispute with India is very small...We are in a serious situation and need your friendship...The situation in the east being so tense we cannot afford to have trouble in the west also...If two ordinary countries are negotiating, they do not expose their difficulties to each other. (But) I am telling you about our difficulties... It would be best if we could reach some overall settlement, but if that is not possible some interim arrangement could be made.”Zhou’s Delhi visit was an outcome of Beijing’s policy to defuse tensions and arrest a worsening of its geopolitical environment. In his meeting with Nehru, Zhou explicitly offered that the Line of Actual Control could form the basis of a settlement. But, for India, how could there be any swapping of claims or “horse trading”, as Nehru put it, if all the territory, whether Arunachal Pradesh in the east or Aksai Chin in the west, were Indian?India spurned overtures from China between 1959 and 1960 to reach an amicable settlement. More importantly, policymakers misread India’s relative position in the changing international environment. This proved costly with India sleepwalking into conflict with a radicalised Mao in 1962.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/when-china-wanted-to-make-peace-with-india/story-znFcztwvbq1QvKYM4dBUjI.html
24-11-2020||News||Tarun Gogoi: The man who brought peace and growth to Assam||One of the first things that struck anyone who met Tarun Gogoi, whether in or out of power, was his smile. But behind that beaming exterior was an astute political mind and a strong will. Gogoi, who came up the ranks of the Congress, had a finger on the public pulse.He was all that we know — a three-term chief minister (successive terms and the longest-serving), a six-term Member of Parliament, a minister in Delhi, who held the posts of Congress joint secretary at the national level and was the Assam Pradesh Congress Committee chief before leading the party to victory in the 2001 state elections. But there was much more to Gogoi — a family man who treasured his private moments and valued friendships, but who also believed till the end in dialogue, political respect, and protecting vulnerable groups, whether minority or otherwise. He enjoyed playing the dhulia (drummer) at Bihu festivals.Some vignettes may help draw a portrait of a complex man who brought peace and stability to Assam after a traumatic period of bloodshed, fear and uncertainty. Like many political leaders, Gogoi thought he knew the answers to most of the problems, but he was always open to new perspectives and suggestions.Soon after he became CM for the first time in 2001, Gogoi was intrigued by the idea of extending the Sixth Schedule to the Bodo areas in the Brahmaputra Valley. A sub-committee was set-up to review the schedule under the Constitution Review Commission, headed by Justice Manepalli Narayana Rao Venkatachaliah during Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s tenure. The group recommended exploring the possibility of extending the provisions, which had till then been limited to the protection of the rights of hill tribes in Assam, Meghalaya, Mizoram, and Tripura, to the plains. The report was sent to Gogoi. Later, legal experts and officials worked on the idea to design the Bodo Territorial Council. The plan was to build and expand peace, development and dialogue.Today, not many young people in Assam will remember the traumatic times of the late 1990s and early part of the first decade of this century: An embracing sense of fear, marked by insurgent strikes, ethnic clashes, and bomb blasts ruled. This was heightened by the presence of armed police, paramilitary and army troops on patrol and at checkpoints where vehicles were stopped and searched even in cities such as Guwahati.“People don’t remember the bad days when Guwahati shut down at dusk. Now see, the cinemas are having night shows; if people feel safe, they will go out, and that’s what we’ve been able to do,” Gogoi once said.He cracked down on insurgents yet kept the doors open for dialogue. He took advantage of public fatigue and resentment against the violence that people felt was preventing Assam from taking its place in the national economy. Gogoi helped the state recover and then grow. He had the ear of Sonia Gandhi and Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. As a grassroots politician and one who also worked at the policy level, Gogoi knew that the region and India gained from Assam’s stability. His state, the biggest in the Northeast, was the pivot for peace and growth. In his view, the two were inseparable.During his long-and-illustrious political career, Gogoi faced significant political challenges and endured many failures. He could shake off the jousting with former chief minister Hiteswar Saikia only after the latter’s demise. The second was his falling out with his one-time close confidant and energetic health minister, Himanta Biswa Sarma, over a range of reasons, not least being the Congress leadership’s inability to respond to Sarma’s concerns. It was a colossal miscalculation. Sarma joined the Bharatiya Janata Party and, with Sarbanada Sonowal, led the saffron party to a victory in the 2016 elections. This has transformed the Northeast’s political map and reduced the once-powerful Congress in the state to tatters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/tarun-gogoi-the-man-who-brought-peace-and-growth-to-assam/story-Hn0SrMS3JF3ZJOUgCn6E4J.html
24-11-2020||Chandigarh||PU forms panel to consider pending CAS promotions||As members of Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) continue their protest against pending promotions under the Career Advancement Scheme (CAS), the varsity has constituted a special panel to consider the issue.The teachers’ association on Tuesday staged a dharna in front of the vice-chancellor’s camp office for the fifth consecutive day demanding that all the pending cases of CAS promotions of teachers should be cleared by Panjab University. The eleven-member panel, headed by the dean university instruction (DUI) RK Singla, has been constituted by the vice-chancellor Prof Raj Kumar to resolve the matter.According to PUTA, there are over 70 teachers whose cases for promotion under the CAS are pending. The interviews of teachers were scheduled in March this year but were not conducted due to the outbreak of Covid-19. PUTA has been demanding that interviews of teachers should be held at the earliest.A meeting of the panel was also held to discuss the matter but nothing has been finalised yet. A member of the panel said that a discussion was held on whether these interviews can be conducted online.PUTA has staged many protests at the university campus demanding that pending promotions of teachers under CAS should be cleared. After the scheduled interviews of teachers were postponed by Panjab University last week, the members of PUTA decided to raise an agitation against the vice-chancellor until all pending cases are cleared.The matter has also remained one of the key agendas during the recent election of PUTA with both rival groups promising to clear all the pending issues.However, PUTA president Mritunjay Kumar said, “It is a good step by the university to form a panel to solve the matter. The promotions of dozens of PU teachers are pending. We will not stop our agitation until all pending cases of CAS are cleared.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pu-forms-panel-to-consider-pending-cas-promotions/story-18Nd4rvwfCkE5CO1h5mEgP.html
24-11-2020||City||Thane civic body all set if second wave of Covid-19 pandemic hits city: Commissioner||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has claimed to be prepared in case a second wave of the pandemic hit the city.At a press conference held on Tuesday, the commissioner said that all the departments have been given directives to ensure necessary arrangements and precautionary measures are taken for the next few days.A special 10-day campaign will be undertaken in the city, wherein regular antigen and RT-PCR testing will continue, strict action will be taken against those not wearing masks or maintaining social-distancing. Vipin Sharma, commissioner, TMC, said, “At a meeting with all the department heads and ward officers, special focus on maintaining cleanliness and hygiene across the city has been initiated. Moreover, the health department has to ensure enough supply of medicines, oxygen, beds with oxygen supply and ventilators is available across the city. The number of cases within Thane continues to be in control. However, we have to be prepared in case a sudden spurt is noted.”The ‘My Family My Responsibility’ survey will continue as planned. Almost 70 per cent of the teachers have been tested by the civic body and all details of health workers are in place. If a vaccine arrives, they will be given priority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-civic-body-all-set-if-second-wave-of-covid-19-pandemic-hits-city-commissioner/story-VxyWgBO1UVLFOzk63bvqYK.html
24-11-2020||City||Pune reports 828 fresh Covid cases, 7 deaths||Pune: The state health department reported over 828 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday and seven deaths in 24 hours in Pune district. The district has reported 3.47 lakh Covid cases of which 3.22 lakh have recovered, 7,331 have been reported dead and 17,820 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or are in home isolation. Pune city reported 417 new cases taking the total count to 178,118 and two deaths taking the death toll to 4,169, while PCMC reported 179 new cases taking the final count to 87,662 and two deaths with 1,244 as death toll. Pune rural reported 232 new cases taking the final count to 82,009 and three deaths taking the death toll to 1,885, according to the state health department. The state health department reported that 4,086 patients were discharged on Saturday taking the final count to over 16.58 lakh. The recovery rate in the state is 92.69%. Also, 5,439 new cases in the state were reported on Monday taking the total to over 17.89 lakh. In addition, 30 Covid19 deaths were reported in the state taking the death toll to 47,700. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.61%. Out of 10,366,579 laboratory samples, 1,789,800 have been tested positive (17.27%) for Covid until Tuesday. Currently, 536,649 people are in home quarantine and 6,221 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-reports-828-fresh-covid-cases-7-deaths/story-xeZ4vnbCmvfm0wnRuVhJnM.html
24-11-2020||Chandigarh||₹5 lakh, jewellery stolen from IB officer’s house in Chandigarh||Burglars struck at the locked government accommodation of an Intelligence Bureau officer in Sector 46 and fled with ₹5 lakh and jewellery, Chandigarh Police said on Tuesday. Sansar Chand, a junior intelligence officer, had gone out of town on leave when he received a call from his neighbour on Sunday evening, informing him that the lock of his main door was broken. He returned on Monday to find that ₹5 lakh that he had taken as a personal loan besides a pair of earrings, two nose pins, three pairs of silver anklets and three silver rings were missing. Police are scanning CCTV footage in the area to identify the burglars. A case has been registered under Sections 380 (theft in dwelling house) and 454 (house break-in) of the Indian Penal Code at the police station in Sector 34.Meanwhile, another case of theft was reported at a painter’s house in Kajheri village, Sector 52. Lal Babu, the house owner, told police that his wife had gone to get clothes drying on the roof when the thief struck. A bag containing jewellery items was stolen. A case has been registered at the police station in Sector 36.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/5-lakh-jewellery-stolen-from-ib-officer-s-house-in-chandigarh/story-ffdV35d0yekq1eedZ11FOK.html
24-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn warns employees against taking part in powermen’s strike||Government employees participating in the strike called by the UT Powermen Union on Thursday will be liable to disciplinary action, the administration warned on Tuesday.The powermen have been protesting against the proposed privatisation of the department.“The Chandigarh administration has always been sympathetic to the genuine demands of electricity employees and there is no cause for any strike. The principle of ‘no work, no pay’ shall be strictly enforced. The employees are, therefore, advised to attend duty,” a press release stated.In case of any power disruptions, residents can contact complaint centres in their area or the control room (0172-2703242, 0172-2742370, 8054104517) or the citizen facilitation centre (0172-4639999). People have also been requested to report any sabotage of power lines to the police control room (112).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-warns-employees-against-taking-part-in-powermen-s-strike/story-HbFxWAuQTfueG9A5BXRmEN.html
24-11-2020||Chandigarh||Bar Council has no power to suspend licence of an advocate: HC||The Punjab and Haryana high court has held that a Bar council does not have power to take punitive action against a lawyer without the complaint being referred to a disciplinary committee. The high court bench of justice Alka Sarin gave this ruling while quashing the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana (BCPH)’s August 14 order, wherein the licence of Bharat Bhushan Verma, former president of Ludhiana District Bar Association, was suspended for his alleged Facebook posts against the council’s executive members. “The provisions of the 1961 Act (Advocates Act, 1961) and the BCI (Bar Council of India) Rules do not bestow power on the State Bar Council to suspend the licence to practise of an advocate while referring the complaint against him to its disciplinary committee,” the bench held. On August 4, a note complaining about Verma’s Facebook posts was put up by a member. The BCPH chairman, acting on it, issued a show-cause notice to Verma via WhatsApp and speed post. It was claimed as he did not respond to the notice, on August 14, his licence was suspended and the matter referred to the disciplinary committee. The committee initiated proceedings against him on August 21. Verma had argued that the decision was without jurisdiction and in gross violation of all principles of natural justice. It was argued that matter should have been referred to the disciplinary committee and the Bar Council had no power to pass an interim order. Before the court, it came to light that the show-cause notice was sent through WhatsApp but another condition of also delivering it by email was not complied with. In the speed post, the address was incomplete. Hence, Verma could not present his side. “An order suspending the licence to practice of an advocate operates to his prejudice not only in praesenti (at the present time) but also puts a taint which attaches far beyond and may well spell the death knell of his professional career which can be described as a civil death,” the bench observed. The bench further said there is no specific or implied power conferred on a State Bar Council under the 1961 Act to take punitive action against an advocate while simultaneously referring a complaint against him to the disciplinary committee. It has to justify exercise of its powers within the four corners of the statute which has created it, the bench added while quashing all proceedings against the lawyer with a liberty to BCPH to initiate them afresh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bar-council-has-no-power-to-suspend-licence-of-an-advocate-hc/story-dbdOCNPsJgfsqwRbPZlQHN.html
24-11-2020||Chandigarh||Light rain likely in Chandigarh||Western disturbances are likely to bring light rain in Chandigarh on Wednesday and Thursday.According to the India Meteorological Department, up to 10mm rain can be expected, which is likely to lead to a dip in temperature. While maximum temperature went down marginally from 22.8°C on Monday to 22.2°C on Tuesday, minimum temperature rose to 12.3°C from 9.6°C owing to cloudy weather.In the coming three days, the day temperature is expected to remain between 19 and 24 degrees while the night temperature will remain between 9 to 12 degrees.With western disturbances active in the region and cloudy weather to continue, open areas have been experiencing mist formation since Monday, especially in the morning. At Sukhna Lake, mist was present even in the evening. Fog and mist differ by how far you can see through them. Fog is when you can see less than 1,000 metre away, and if you can see further, it is called mist. Mist typically is quicker to dissipate and can rapidly disappear with even slight winds or sunlight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/light-rain-likely-in-chandigarh/story-P1MRdvUnUWsp970tjRebfM.html
24-11-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab governor’s principal secretary tests positive for Covid-19 again||JM Balamurugan, principal secretary to Punjab governor VP Singh Badnore, on Tuesday tested positive for Covid-19 again, within less than four months. However, whether it is a case of reinfection has not been immediately established.An official spokesperson said that out of 338 people tested during an exercise at Punjab Raj Bhawan, six people including Balamurugan were found positive. They have been immediately isolated.Badnore and his family members have, however, tested negative. The spokesperson said that entry and meetings have been restricted at the Raj Bhavan for the time being, and all protocols regarding the pandemic are being followed as per the Government of India’s guidelines.Balamurugan, a 1994-batch Indian Administrative Services officer, had earlier tested positive on August 9, the official spokesperson said. Dr Mini P Singh, professor of virology and nodal officer of the Covid-19 laboratory services at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education of Research, Chandigarh, said that further investigation is required to establish if it is a possible case of reinfection.“To possibly say that it was a case of reinfection, we need to examine whether the patient was symptomatic earlier and what symptoms the patient has exhibited this time. It will require more investigation as well,” said Dr Singh.Dr Jagdish Chander, head of microbiology department and Covid-19 laboratory at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, said the patient may have tested positive again due to a fragment of the dead virus.“It can also be a case of reinfection. We need to understand that the testing system (RT-PCR method) is actually a research tool more than a diagnostic test,” he said.Earlier, a 25-year-old man from Sector 45 had tested positive for Covid-19 within a gap of two months. The person had also donated plasma after recovery.Experts pointed out that to determine whether it is reinfection or not, a blood sample can be taken to see the formation of antibodies and to see whether the patient is still shedding the virus, or if it is a new infection, the two strains of the virus have to be sequenced.Meanwhile, Chandigarh reported a total of 79 fresh cases om Tuesday, which took the tally to 16,848. The death toll rose to 265 as two more patients succumbed. As many as 15,455 (91.7%) patients have recovered so far, including 66 discharged on Tuesday, and 1,128 cases remain active.P’kula deputy civil surgeon contacts virusThree days after the Panchkula civil surgeon tested positive for Covid-19, reports of the deputy civil surgeon and four other health workers also came positive on Tuesday.Civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur and Dr Mankirat, who is the contact tracing in-charge in Panchkula district, have been in home isolation after being tested positive on Saturday. Samples of at least 69 health workers, who came in contact with the two doctors, were taken on Monday. After five of them tested positive, the number of health workers who have contracted the virus in the district has reached 171.“They all are in home isolation and their health is being monitored,” said a senior official.The total number of infections reported in the district on Tuesday stand at 14. Meanwhile, two people succumbed, taking the toll to 124. They have been identified as a 61-year-old man from Sector 25 and a 41-year-old man from Kalka. Both had diabetes.As many as 8,396 people have tested positive so far, of whom 7,807 (93%) have been cured and 465 are still undergoing treatment.Two succumb, 72 test positive in MohaliIn Mohali district, two more people died of Covid-19 on Tuesday while 80 tested positive. Among the fresh cases, 72 surfaced in Mohali city alone. Of 14,634 people tested positive so far, 269 have died and 12,894 (88.1%) have recovered, including three discharged on Tuesday. Meanwhile, 1,471 cases remain active. Reviewing the status of the pandemic in the district on Tuesday, deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said testing should be increased twofold with special focus on vulnerable sections. He also called for aggressive contact tracing, aiming for at least 15 contacts per case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-governor-s-principal-secretary-tests-positive-for-covid-19-again/story-jt7ZNmZR8MRbP1fImMKVXM.html
24-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC to give provisory water connections outside lal dora areas||In a move to compel users of illegal water connections to pay up and add to its revenues, the municipal corporation will be amending water bye-laws in the city to allow provisory connections in villages even outside the lal dora (red line) land, it has been learnt.There are 22 villages under MC jurisdiction with 17,705 connections within the lal dora and 3,837 connections outside.No water bills are generated for about 2,128 illegal connections outside the lal dora area for which MC water is used, say MC sources not wishing to be identified.Part of village land which comprises the village habitation is categorised as lal dora.Revenues of ₹4crore“If temporary water connections are issued by MC outside the lal dora for these consumers (illegal connections) then water revenues will amount to around ₹4 crore for the first year including charges for connection and water. If charges for the last two years are included then the amount will be round ₹6.8 crore,” says an MC official.According to the existing provisions of the Chandigarh Water Supply Bye-laws 2011, water connections for villages are allowed only within lal dora land.For provisory water connection outside lal dora land, additional provision in the water bye-laws is required with the approval of the MC house. The MC has proposed that the provision be made. Approval of the application for connection will require proof of ownership, building plan of house, and report of sewer line if any.The MC will not lay any water supply or sewer line. The connection will not tantamount to ownership.Double domestic rate will be charged in provisory water connection.Another scheme to regularise illegal connections The MC is also considering regularisation of illegal water connections in all colonies and villages, including 13 villages transferred to the civic body. Consumers have to deposit one time charges within 90 days and get a rebate of 10% . Failing to do so will invite a penalty of 15% charged up to the date of regularisation.Regularisation charges for domestic connection range from ₹50 to ₹200 per month, depending on the date on which the illegal connection was started. For the non-domestic connection regularisation charges vary from ₹400 to ₹800 per month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-to-give-provisory-water-connections-outside-lal-dora-areas/story-LZGFamsq91toHxJPsr6IxH.html
24-11-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali plans aggressive Covid testing||Mohali  The administration has decided to make all-out efforts to increase Covid-19 sampling in the district to detect and control the disease, deputy commissioner (DC) Girish Dayalan said on Tuesday.Reviewing the status of Covid-19 infections in the district with subdivisional magistrates (SDMs) and senior medical officers of the district, Dayalan said, “testing may be increased twofold with special focus on vulnerable sections coupled with aggressive contact tracing, aiming for least 15 contacts per case.” Directing the SDMs to prepare an advance weekly sampling plan targeting vulnerable sections, Dayalan asked the district development and panchayat officer (DDPO) to conduct a similar exercise for rural areas in consultation with sarpanches. The civil surgeon was asked to ensure round-the-clock availability of the sampling team at the district hospital with two dedicated mobile sampling teams for the needyEntrusting the responsibility of overseeing the contact tracing to the additional deputy commissioner (development), Dayalan asked him to ensure maximum physical contact tracing. Nodal officers were asked to ensure home isolation of asymptomatic patients, regular check by control room/doctors. The DC directed them to keep a tab on equipment and bed availability and ensure availability of L2 and L3 facilities to the needy patients. The control room would also be strengthened with requisite staff round the clock to sort out the grievances of the callers.Strict enforcement measures with respect to compliance of health protocols and advisories was also stressed upon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mohali-plans-aggressive-covid-testing/story-5er2na5CXQQCgaeFRTJmiL.html
24-11-2020||Chandigarh||GMCH-32 rejects 21 MBBS candidates who sought admission in other states||The Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32 (GMCH-32) has rejected at least 21 candidates for the MBBS course as they had applied for admissions to medical colleges in other states as well in contravention of UT norms.The ineligibility list of candidates prepared by the institute showed that 21 of them had opted for admission in states other than UT Chandigarh even though they were required to submit an undertaking /affidavit while filing applications for admissions after the National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test that they had not done so.The undertakings had to be submitted twice, at the time of applying to an institute and while appearing for counselling. At least 21 candidates had applied in other states as well.GMCH-32 has 150 MBBS seats, of which 115 are reserved for the UT pool while 15% (23) seats are reserved under all India quota. The rest are distributed under the central pool and for students of Indian origin from abroad.The medical college is implementing the policy for admission under which candidates completing classes 10, 11 and 12 from schools recognised by the Chandigarh administration and located within the UT as regular students will be considered under the UT pool. This criteria is being implemented in a staggered manner. In 2019 the eligibility criteria was clearing 10+2, in 2020 it is class 11 and 12 while in 2021 it will shall be clearing classes 10, 11 and 12 from schools recognised by the UT administration.Officials said that the first counselling of the UT pool seats and all India pool seats have been conducted while the NRI pool seats were delayed due to a court case in the Punjab and Haryana high court related to an MBBS candidate seeking admission under the NRI quota who was rejected. The admission process will be over after the second round of all India level seats as the vacant seats in this category will be reverted to UT pool seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gmch-32-rejects-21-mbbs-candidates-who-sought-admission-in-other-states/story-NqMGB9PPOxDl5OPDKwiCeJ.html
24-11-2020||Gurugram||DTCP issues notice to hospital in Cyber Hub for operating without permits||The department of town and country planning (DTCP) has issued a notice to the World Laparoscopy Hospital located at the Cyber Hub for operating the facility without obtaining a no-objection certificate(NOC) from the fire department and an occupancy certificate(OC) for the revised building plan. The department on Tuesday wrote to the Municipal Corporation Gurugram(MCG) to initiate action against the hospital for violating norms. DTCP officials said that the action was taken after a formal complaint was lodged on social media regarding this issue. RS Bhath, district town planner, enforcement, said that an inspection of the premises was conducted and the hospital management was asked to produce both the fire NOC as well as the revised building plan of the building. “Neither the fire NOC was presented to the department nor the revised OC was submitted. As such, we have decided to write to the MCG to initiate action in this regard as operating a hospital without required permissions could pose threat to the safety of patients,” said Bhath. As the site for which the change of land use (CLU) was granted by the department falls in the jurisdiction of MCG, the department has written to the corporation to initiate necessary action. An official of the World Laparoscopy Hospital, on condition of anonymity, said that they have obtained the OC for the building. “We have also applied for an NOC from the fire department and the matter is under process,” he said. Meanwhile, in a related development, the team of the enforcement department also demolished six illegal shops in Sector 3, which had come up without any permission. “These shops were unauthorised and demolished. More such action will be taken in the coming weeks,” said Ashish Sharma, assistant town planner, who was part of team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/dtcp-issues-notice-to-hospital-in-cyber-hub-for-operating-without-permits/story-rqZ8zde8WTYStgWE5U4T2M.html
24-11-2020||Gurugram||Man arrested for raping minor girl in New Colony||A 14-year-old girl, a student of class 8, was allegedly repeatedly sexually assaulted by her neighbour in the New Colony area and was threatened for her life over the last one-and-half month, said the police. The suspect was arrested on Tuesday and was sent to a 14-day judicial custody, said the police. The police said they received a complaint from the minor’s elder sister, following which a case was registered at New Colony Police Station under Section 4 (penetrative sexual assault) of POCSO Act and Section 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The victim’s, sister in her complaint, mentioned that a man, who lives in the same neighbourhood, had been sexually assaulting her sister. “The man regularly visited our house and we never objected as he was our neighbour. On November 6, he first raped my sister when she was alone at home and threatened her to remain silent. Since then, he has been exploiting my sister,” she said in her complaint. The police said the behaviour of the minor girl changed over the month and she became quieter. On being asked by her sister, the victim shared ordeal. “The man had threatened the girl to kill her family members if she shared anything with anyone,” said Pankhuri Yadav, assistant commissioner of police. In another case, a 24-year-old woman was allegedly raped by a person whom she met via social media. On the basis of the complaint, a case was registered at Sector 40 police station. According to police, the woman met the person through social media in January and became friends. They started talking to each other and exchanged mobile numbers. In February, the woman met the man, a resident of Bilaspur village in Gurugram, at a hotel in Sector 40. They met again on a few occasions and he allegedly raped her on the pretext of marriage. After a few months, the accused allegedly stopped taking her calls and abused her. The woman filed a case at Sector 40 police station and the case was registered on Monday. “A case has been registered and the police are investigating it. No arrest has been made till now,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/man-arrested-for-raping-minor-girl-in-new-colony/story-XyecEXzyQDy161pTMfau3J.html
24-11-2020||City||Six robbers held last week had ‘trained’ in UP, wanted to start their own school to train criminals||Gurugram: The six members of a gang arrested last week allegedly “trained” to be robbers in Uttar Pradesh last year, before carrying out heists in the National Capital Region (NCR), and were planning to start their own school to train future criminals, said the police on Tuesday.The suspects were arrested on Friday and Saturday from different locations over their alleged involvement in an armed robbery at a jewellery shop in Sadar Bazar’s Roshanpura area on September 19. Officers said they have been allegedly involved in dozens of armed robberies at jewellery shops in the NCR.According to Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), the suspects allegedly revealed during questioning that they took a month-long training from criminals in Kasganj in Uttar Pradesh. They were trained in making route maps, placement of gang members during the robbery, which route to select after identifying the shop, how to avoid CCTVs and how to target victims,” he said. The suspects were identified as Varun alias Sonu (32) of Kaithal, Mintu (24) of Nathupur in Gurugram, Harsh (19) of Badshahpur, Tony (24) of Sector 65, Sunil Kumar (27) of Madhya Pradesh and Sourya of Kasganj in UP.Police said Sourya had allegedly introduced the other suspects to his friends in Kasganj who were involved in more than 80 criminal cases, including murder. “Sourya was earlier part of a UP gang and was involved in 20 snatching cases. He fled to Gurugram along with two of his friends and joined Varun’s gang. He took them to his hometown and lodged them at his house. They all robbed more than 11 people in a month and snatchings from 17 people. Sourya was planning to start his own “training school” for robberies and snatchings before he was caught,” said Sangwan. Officers said that the gang was allegedly planning to start a business and for that they had planned to rob at least five jewellers in Gurugram, but their planning failed and they were identified via CCTV footage.Varun had allegedly joined hands with Sourya and they had finalised a place in the outskirts of Kasganj where they would have started their training school by the end of December, said the police.Sangwan said the suspects were allegedly planning to train young snatchers and robbers and were planning to keep a cut from their earnings. “They were planning to come up with “packages” for the training school and had started connecting with criminals in UP and Haryana lodged in jails to get them on board,” he said. Narender Chauhan, in-charge, crime investigation agency, Sector 18, said that all six gang members were allegedly well trained but could not conduct reconnaissance of inner lanes connected to Sadar market, in which they were captured. “They had to change their route last minute while fleeing with the ornaments and cash due to traffic congestion, which was not in their original plan. They had stopped at three locations and had come out of the car, where they were identified,” he said. Chauhan said his team will be sent to Kasganj for further investigation on Thursday and that they are coordinating with the local police there. The suspects were produced before the court on Tuesday and were sent to 14 days’ judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-robbers-held-last-week-had-trained-in-up-wanted-to-start-their-own-school-to-train-criminals/story-PAth1rD995ZKO5ob0SvBqJ.html
24-11-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram least polluted in NCR although city air remains toxic||Air quality in the city remained “poor” on Tuesday, recording 296 on the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) daily air quality index (AQI) bulletin, up from 285 the previous day in the same category. Gurugram was the least polluted city in the National Capital Region (NCR) with the AQI in Delhi and Noida staying in the “very poor” category. Ghaziabad stayed in the “severe” category. Experts attributed the poor AQI to slow wind speeds due to which pollutants couldn’t be dispersed.The level of ultrafine particulate matter 2.5 (PM 2.5), which has a diameter of 2.5 microns or less (PM 2.5), the city’s primary pollutant, was 243.38 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m³) on Tuesday, as per the CPCB’s air quality monitor at Vikas Sadan in Sector 11. According to the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, the air quality is likely to deteriorate further and remain in the “very poor” category on Wednesday. The air quality is expected to improve but remain in the “very poor“category on Thursday. Gurugram’s minimum temperature settled at 9.6 degrees Celsius on Tuesday, according to the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) Palam Observatory in Delhi, which, according to the MeT department officials, gives a fairly accurate reading of the city’s weather. The IMD’s automatic weather station (AWS) did not record the city’s minimum temperature on Tuesday. The city recorded a maximum temperature of 23.8 degrees Celsius, as per the Palam observatory. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that temperature will continue to be in a similar range on account of a western disturbance over the next 2-3 days. “After the western disturbance passes, cold winds will again start blowing from the region and the mercury is again set to dip from November 27,” said Srivastava. As per IMD’s weekly forecast, the maximum temperature will hover around 23 degrees Celsius while the minimum temperature is expected to stay at eight degrees. As per the weekly forecast, fog and mist will prevail in the morning hours on Wednesday followed by partly cloudy skies later during the day. Meanwhile, Delhi’s air quality took a turn for the worse on Tuesday, sparking fears that meteorological conditions and local pollution sources could choke the city for days yet again. Government agencies have forecast that the air quality could enter the ‘severe’ zone on Wednesday. The city’s air quality index (AQI) on Tuesday settled at 379, in the upper end of the “very poor” zone, according to CPCB’s recordings at 4pm. Ghaziabad emerged as the most polluted city in the country for the third consecutive day. Experts pointed out that since stubble burning count from other states had reduced considerably, local pollutants now have a major impact over the air quality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-least-polluted-in-ncr-although-city-air-remains-toxic/story-hz8eR1oO377td2d75TgC5N.html
24-11-2020||Gurugram||Residents defiant over lack of mask hygiene||Shoppers at city’s busy markets and visitors at other prominent locations, such as parks and malls, continue to flout safety norms of social distancing and mask hygiene — the two most important ways to curb the spread of Covid-19 — even as cases continue to peak this month, following the festive season and onset of winter.HT tagged along with police patrol teams last week to four prominent locations, including markets and parks, where rampant violation of the rules pertaining to Covid-appropriate behaviour was noticed. Despite awareness campaigns and penal provisions, visitors to public places seem dismissive of the safety norms in place, with many telling the enforcement teams that the virus would not affect them.A lack of awareness about Covid-19 continues to be the main problem among the people, with many citing superstitious beliefs and their healthy lifestyle as excuses for not wearing masks.Experts say that wearing masks is crucial in containing the infection as symptoms only appear after four to five days of getting infected. It is likely that during this period, patients might not develop usual symptoms of cough, fever or difficulty in breathing, but can still spread the infection to others. A paper published in the New England Journal of Medicine in June found that Covid-19 can also be spread by those who have very mild disease and do not show any symptom. Studies show that mask can reduce the growth rate of coronavirus infection by 40%.Even fines do not seem to deter violators or promote safe practices among those reluctant to wear masks. Between July 9 and November 20, the police has levied 89,582 penalties for violation of Covid-19 guidelines and collected over Rs 4.47 crore. The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), which also delegates teams to check for violations, has collected a fine of over Rs 13 lakh till October, as per the data available with the state government.The police said that more than 1,200 people, on an average, are fined every day for not wearing masks. There are 86 police teams, comprising 900 personnel in all, deployed across the city to keep a check on violators.Officials of the health department, concerned over the situation at markets, had asked the civic agencies to ensure white paint markings, with a distance of three feet, to ensure social distancing. However, visitors at most markets continue to ignore the markings and huddle together at shops.Sadar BazarAround 11am on a weekday, groups of visitors from nearby villages throng the shops, with hardly any distance between one another. Many of them can be seen not wearing masks even as they continue to visit different stores to do their purchasing.The police teams, both in plainclothes and uniforms, keep a vigil and penalise people found violating rules. However, they say that the biggest challenge is to ensure that violators understand the importance of safety measures and do no repeat the offence.The police had organised a Covid-19 awareness camp in the market last week and distributed sanitisers and face masks to promote mask hygiene.Hardeep Hooda, station house officer, City police station, said that at least 26 hawkers and shop owners have tested positive for the virus, so far, in November. “It is the biggest market in the city and people from nearby villages visit here for purchasing groceries, clothes and other stuff. It has been observed that many do not follow safety measures and at least 200 people are penalised Rs 500, each, every day. Many of them tell us that their immune system is so strong that they cannot get affected by this virus,” he said.Bhupinder Singh, a resident of Badli village, who was visiting the market with his family to do the shopping for his daughter’s wedding, said, “The virus does not attack Jats.” Further, he said that his immunity is strong as he drinks fresh milk, consumes desi ghee and fresh vegetables grown in his fields. “I have never fallen sick in the last 45 years; nor does my family have any history of illness. We eat healthily and remain fit. Covid cannot affect us even if we do not wear a face mask,” he said.Singh and his four family members were fined for Rs 2,500 in total and given free masks.A group of 16 persons of a family from Bas village was found carrying masks in their bags. Roshni Lather (28), one of the family members, was asked to rub sanitiser before entering the market to which she refused and said she didn’t want to use chemicals on her skin. “We don’t use sanitisers as it causes cancer, instead we use ‘rakh’ to clean our hands when we return home after travelling outside the village. We do not wear a mask in our village as many people had fallen sick because of prolonged mask use,” she said.Many people in the market were seen removing their masks to cough, while many just wore the masks incorrectly, without totally covering their mouths and nostrils. Outside the juice shops, people could be seen sharing containers and spitting in the open, paying no heed to the guidelines.In several instances, shopkeepers were also seen hanging their masks around their necks instead of covering their face. When pulled up by the police, they claimed that they had to cough and couldn’t do so while keeping their masks on.KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said that they have penalised 434 shop owners in the last two months. “In many shops, there were no sanitisers placed despite repeated warnings. With the number rising, we are taking the help of the market associations to spread awareness. Assistant commissioners of police are visiting markets in their area every day to ask grocery shop owners and others to wear masks,” he said.Kamla Nehru ParkAt Kamla Nehru Park in Sadar’s Roshan Pura, people were penalised for walking in groups.A group of athletes, sharing water bottles during a practice session, said that they consumed more than 300ml of desi ghee daily and they are strong enough to fight the virus. They were also penalised.Rao said more than 5,000 people caught without masks in the last few weeks claimed to have recovered from the virus and thus, did not need to wear masks any longer. “People are getting careless about coronavirus and some of those who have recovered are moving around as if they are allowed to violate rules,” he said.Dharmender Kadiyan, a resident of village Chimni near Jhajjar, said he had been penalised eight times this month, but he still does not carry a mask. “I find it difficult to breathe with the mask on. Walking and running is not possible with a cloth on your mouth and nose. Three of my friends had collapsed due to breathlessness as they were wearing face masks. My family has asked me not to carry one,” he said, adding that avoiding the virus spread is inevitable and that it only harms senior citizens. “I am just 22,” he said.Subhash ChowkVisitors to malls along the Sohna Road were seen entering the premises without wearing masks and many instances of disagreements were observed when they were asked to use sanitisers and purchase a mask. The police said the habit of wearing masks is on the wane.A team of police officials deployed at Subhash Chowk also continue to penalise autorickshaw drivers for crowding. Many were seen ferrying up to 14 people, despite the vehicles having a seating capacity of six.People at public places are behaving as if there is no coronavirus, said Dinesh Kumar, the station house officer of Sadar police station. “With the rising number of coronavirus cases, we have removed hawkers from Subhash Chowk. More than 15 of them tested positive this month,” he said.Ram Tanwar, an autorickshaw driver who was fined twice in two days, said that passengers did not listen to him and removed masks. “They cough and sneeze but refuse to use handkerchief saying that they have recently recovered and they are safe for next three months. I wear a mask, but, at times, passengers say they can’t hear me clearly, due to which I remove my mask to talk. I had removed my mask only for a few minutes but I was caught,” he said.Two hawkers who sell paranthas and fruits at the crossing said they did not get their tests done due to a fear of losing out on business. “I had a mild fever last month for a few days but had no money to survive without work. I took all precautions and used a face mask, but did not take a break from work. Due to the lockdown, I have used up all my savings and if I don’t work, I will have no money to support my family. We will die in hunger,” said Ram Kishore, of Etawah in Uttar Pradesh.Vyapar KendraThe Vyapar Kendra in Sushant Lok-1 is one of the most tightly packed markets in the city, with 200 shops, 140 offices and many makeshift kiosks selling food, clothes and other sundry items vying for space on a six-foot-wide corridor, which snake up and down the building’s five floors, including the basement.With a daily footfall of over 3,000 people, at least 100 customers are fined every day, said police.Shopkeepers at the market said they are concerned over a lack of discipline among visitors, as they openly flout the regulations in place. However, they are fearful of losing out on customers if they object to a lack of mask hygiene.Shyam Sunder, a shopkeeper, said, “When I request people to use sanitisers, they say they have just used in the last shop and deny to rub it again. They remove their mask and talk. Asking them to pull it up gives an impression of arrogance. Last week, when I objected a man for not wearing a mask, he caught hold of me and abused me.”Most of the customers and buyers at the market were not wearing face masks. Those who did have the masks were wearing them improperly and pulled them up only on sighting police teams.Sarika Devi, a resident of Sushant Lok-1 Block A, was fined for leaving her mask hanging. She told the police team that she was coughing and with the mask on, she was unable to breathe. When the police tried to impose on her the importance of masks, she alleged that it is a way to harass the public and earn money. “I had a mask and I was about to wear it, but cops caught me and issued a fine,” she said.Tej Singh, the president of the market association, said that they regularly make announcements through speaker systems for visitors to wear face masks. “But people are still very careless and do not pay any heed. Surprisingly, being educated, they are not concerned about their own lives or others’ safety,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/residents-defiant-over-lack-of-mask-hygiene/story-H05XiOTohH9a39or7P6mzM.html
24-11-2020||Gurugram||Doctors from AIIMS, Delhi, review Covid-19 situation in Gurugram||The director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi, visited the city to review the Covid-19 situation in view of the continuous spike in cases for almost a month. Daily cases continued to hover near the 1,000 mark with the district on Tuesday reporting 822 new infections, taking the Covid-19 tally to 45,894 and active cases to over 6,000 for the second time this month.Dr Randeep Guleria, director, AIIMS, Delhi, asked the district health department to conduct targeted and saturation testing, where everyone gets tested, in worst-affected clusters. According to the district health department, Guleria, who was assisted by two other doctors, also advised that the workforce for contact tracing and monitoring home isolation be increased to flatten the curve.The active cases in Gurugram stand at 6,085. Cases are showing an uptick with a weekly test positivity rate of 16%, with daily infections fluctuating between 500-970. Considering the high positivity rate, doctors from AIIMS, who held a meeting with health officials at the chief medical officer’s (CMO) premises at old Civil Hospital, called for saturation testing in Covid-19 clusters.The Central government has already issued an advisory to states to conduct saturation testing in high-risk areas. Testing can be repeated periodically until the positivity rates of the high-risk areas decline. “In the worst-affected Covid-19 areas, the target is to increase the intensity of saturation testing, where everyone gets tested,” said Dr Virender Yadav, CMO, adding they have been doing periodical testing in some areas to lower the positivity rate.The health department has been conducting almost 6,000 tests for the last six days. On Tuesday, 6,264 tests were administered, including 4,688 Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) ones and 1,576 rapid antigen tests.Yadav said that the district health department has also been doing targeted testing. “Gurugram is currently doing maximum tests in Haryana. Over three lakh tests per million population have been conducted till now. At least 1,650 testing camps have been conducted. We are also trying aggressively to screen and test asymptomatic people identified through contact tracing exercise to limit the chain of transmission,” he said.HT reported earlier this week that contact tracing has become a challenging task due to the surge in cases. For every positive case, the teams are able to identify over four contacts, which is fewer than the recommendation of 10 contacts, as the health department is facing a shortage of personnel.“The issue has been put across to the state health department, to depute additional workforce for ideal contact tracing. Also, as nearly 93% of active cases are home isolated, their timely surveillance every alternate day is equally crucial. Therefore, we have also asked for more people who can join the home isolation teams,” said Yadav, adding that they have also been told to ensure strict quarantine of close contacts of positive persons.According to Yadav, the AIIMS team emphasized strict enforcement in containment zones and mask discipline in crowded places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/doctors-from-aiims-delhi-review-covid-19-situation-in-gurugram/story-P0RSLVUlzgon7ir0lg59IM.html
24-11-2020||Gurugram||Hostel facilities reduced by 75% for first-year students in city colleges||Of the two government colleges in the city that offer hostel facilities, one will not be offering the facility to first-year students this year while the other has reduced its strength by half, due to concerns over social distancing. As per the standard operating procedure for colleges and universities, physical distancing needs to be maintained at all times in hostels. Besides maintaining an adequate distance among the beds in a room, colleges have also been instructed to erect temporary partitions to separate the residents. At the Government Girls College in sector 14, the available seats have been reduced by half. Ramesh Garg, the principal of the college, said that the college will be starting the hostel facility from next month while adopting physical distancing norms. “The government has allowed the operation of hostels with physical distancing protocols. Earlier, 800 students used to stay in the hostel. This year, to abide by the distancing concerns, we have decided that a room will be shared by only two students. With this parameter, around 450 students will be able to occupy the hostel facilities,” said Garg. He said that forms for admissions have been shared with hostel applicants and the final list will be declared soon. “Admission to the hostel will be strictly done on merit basis. Students have already shared necessary information and we are aiming to make the hostels functional by December 1. The premises have been sanitized and sanitizers have been placed at various points,” said Garg. Outstation students said that the chances of securing a hostel seat would be less due to the reduction. Moreover, the move would be a setback for girls, especially students from rural areas, who are already struggling with internet access for online classes. “Due to Covid-19, all students will not be given a seat this year. Since the admission is merit based, we need to have a percentage (as per the cut-off) to get a seat,” said Komal, a first-year BSc student at Government Girls’ College, who has applied for a hostel seat. She said that students coming from distant places might face difficulty in relocating to Gurugram if they are unable to secure a seat. “Parents are often reluctant to send girls to other cities for studies. With limited chances of securing a hostel seat, obstacles will arise when physical classroom sessions go back to the normal routine. Online classes are not working seamlessly for all,” said Komal, who goes by her first name.Garg, however, said that since many students are in favour of online classes, the number of students seeking hostel admissions has also declined. “More than 50% of the students prefer online classes due to which the number of hostel applicants has reduced,” said Garg.Pooja Khullar, principal of Dronacharya Government College, said that the college will not be inviting new admissions to the hostel. “Our hostel is not in a working condition and needs to be demolished. We are not admitting first-year students to the hostel for now and will be adjusting the second and third-year students once arrangements are made,” said Khullar. She said that the college will take further steps based on the feedback it receives from the department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/hostel-facilities-reduced-by-75-for-first-year-students-in-city-colleges/story-vWwh5dx9ppIKDbN8NVVdHO.html
24-11-2020||City||Will declare results by November 30: DU tells Delhi high court||New Delhi: Delhi University on Tuesday informed the Delhi High Court that it would declare the pending results for various postgraduate and undergraduate courses by November 30, with the court remarking that the varsity’s “neck is on board” if it does not meet the deadline.A bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad was informed by DU’s counsel Mohinder Rupal that it would declare the results after a plea alleged that varsity had not declared the results by October 31 in violation of an earlier order dated October 12.On October 12, the high court had directed the varsity to upload the mark sheets on its website and that no student should be asked to physically come to collect them.The court, while noting the submissions, said the remaining results of postgraduate and undergraduate courses should be declared by November 30. It posted the matter for further hearing on December 2.“Your neck is on the board if you don’t do it,” the bench said during the hearing, while questioning the filing of an application in a petition that had been disposed of.The high court had earlier disposed of two pleas by law student Prateek Sharma and National Federation of Blind, seeking to set up effective mechanisms for visually impaired and specially abled students so that educational instructions can be transmitted to them properly and teaching material provided through the online mode of teaching during the Covis-19 pandemic.The court questioned the maintainability of the application and asked petitioner Sharma why he had filed it in an already decided matter.“Why did you file an application in a decided matter? Answer us on the maintainability first and not on merits... We have reservations in entertaining the application in a disposed of petition,” the bench said.The petitioner, represented through advocate H S Hora, said in the application that DU had violated the October 12 order, where under the varsity itself had undertaken to adhere to the October 31 timeline for the declaration of results of PG and UG courses.The high court had earlier asked Delhi University and its examiners to expedite the evaluation process of the online open-book examination (OBE).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/will-declare-results-by-november-30-du-tells-delhi-high-court/story-NudfRaOUFZiB1rr8m8jtMN.html
24-11-2020||Gurugram||Cops question private lab staffers in connection with fake Covid report scam||After a private lab in the city was busted last week for making fraudulent Covid-19 reports, the police on Tuesday said more labs were under the scanner for forging such reports and that they were in the process of verifying the details before conducting raids. The police have recovered mobile numbers of more than 300 people who had allegedly paid the private lab to get positive reports for ₹1,400 and convert positive reports into negative ones for ₹3,000. On Tuesday, a police team of four members questioned the staff of a diagnostics lab in Delhi’s Kirti Nagar, whose letterhead was used to forge Covid-19 reports by the lab in question. Many people have travelled to foreign countries with these forged reports in the last two months, said the police. According to the police, the people involved in this racket included Anirban Roy of Kolkata and Parimal Roy of Murshidabad in Uttar Pradesh. They revealed that they had been involved in this illegal practice for the last two months. The teams have seized a bundle of letterheads from the lab and a laptop which stored all the data, said the police. Anirban had allegedly tied up with a diagnostic and path lab located in Delhi’s Kirti Nagar. Both were working hand in glove and used to prepare fake reports on lab’s letterhead, the police said. Harish Budhiraja, inspector, chief minister’s flying squad, said that the duo didn’t seek permission from the district health department to conduct Covid-19 tests and to set up a lab in Gurugram. “The Sector 40 police is investigating the case and have questioned a few staff members of the Delhi lab. They have served them notice to join investigation as they were not cooperating in the investigation. The duo must have prepared more than 1,000 reports but we are yet to figure out the exact number of reports,” he said. The suspects were residing in a rented accommodation in the Saini Khera village in Sector 30 near the lab and used to contact people through messages and calls. They had allegedly bought data from Delhi where they used to send bulk messages that they are conducting tests, said the police. Inderjeet Yadav, deputy superintendent of police, Crime Investigation Department, said that the suspects were operating under the banner of Medikartz Pathology Lab and Medical Tourism, and used to also collect samples of blood for other investigations. “There are more such labs under scanner and we are conducting investigation and are in touch with the officials concerned. Once all the leads are verified, we will conduct raids at more locations,” he said. On Saturday, the Chief Minister’s Flying Squad had busted the fake pathology lab and arrested both the suspects from Sainikhera village. They had received a complaint that the fake coronavirus test reports are being generated in Gurugram and people are using it for travelling abroad. The police said a few people have even travelled to the US after taking fake negative certificates from them. Some people got positive reports to get leaves from their offices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/cops-question-private-lab-staffers-in-connection-with-fake-covid-report-scam/story-9B86v7ljCPHod0s8QTw6tL.html
24-11-2020||Gurugram||No more than 50 allowed for indoor events, 100 for outdoor ones||The state government has capped the number of persons allowed for indoor events, such as weddings, political and religious functions, to 50, and the number of people for outdoor events to 100, in the six districts that fall in the National Capital Region. The decision was taken in view of the rising number of daily Covid-19 infections, said chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar during a press briefing on Tuesday in Chandigarh.The order will be effective from November 26, according to an official statement issued by the state administration. The decision comes a week after the Delhi government limited the number of people at gatherings to 50. Khattar on Tuesday took part in a high-level meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, along with chief ministers of seven other states — Delhi, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Kerala and Gujarat — through video conference. During the meeting with the PM on Tuesday noon, Khattar was interrupted by Modi while he was sharing Haryana’s Covid-19 figures. The PM said that the figures had already been presented and asked Khattar to share how he planned to control the spread of the coronavirus. Currently, Haryana is among the 10 states in the country that are reporting the maximum number of Covid-19 cases, which, in turn, has also led to increased mortality. The overall tally of the state has reached 222, 292 on Tuesday, of which 20,765 are active cases. The Covid-19 toll stands at 2,249, with 33 deaths recorded on Tuesday. The fatality rate of the state is 1.01%, while the recovery rate is 89.65%. The direction is applicable for Gurugram, Rewari, Faridabad, Rohtak, Sonepat and Hisar. In the remaining districts of the state, gatherings have been limited to 100 persons for indoor functions and 200 persons for outdoor ones, following the Central government’s guidelines.As per the official statement, Khattar said that the situation of Covid-19 in Haryana remained satisfactory in the first and second phase. “In the third wave of Covid-19, spurt in the number of cases has been registered in the past few days, especially in the districts adjoining the NCR, in view of the thick movement of people in the NCR,” said Khattar. He also said that police and urban local bodies have been directed to strictly enforce mask hygiene and penalise offenders. A fine of Rs 500 can be imposed on those who are found without masks. Also, 10 million masks would soon be distributed across the state. Khattar, however, said that there are no plans to impose night curfew. With regards to vaccine distribution, Khattar said that health care workers will get the first dose of vaccine.Also, in view of the ‘Dilli Chalo’ call given by various farmers’ organisations on November 26, to protest farm laws that were recently passed, the state administration has issued a comprehensive travel advisory for commuters. It stated that blockades can be faced at entry points from Punjab into Haryana and Haryana into Delhi, between November 25 and 27.Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, home department, said, “Haryana border connecting Punjab will be sealed completely, while traffic and security arrangements will be made at Delhi-Gurugram border.” Officials are expecting protesters are to enter Haryana from Punjab, through various border entry points, to reach Delhi. They will be taking four major national highways — Ambala to Delhi, Hisar to Delhi, Rewari to Delhi and Palwal to Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/no-more-than-50-allowed-for-indoor-events-100-for-outdoor-ones/story-h1tSZcjaDvv6lSMGTq22qJ.html
24-11-2020||City||Two gangsters held after shootout in Rohini||New DelhiTwo alleged gangsters were arrested after a shootout with a joint team of Delhi and Haryana police in Rohini on Tuesday morning. Police identified the two men as Rupender Nanhas and Amit Sutar -- both residents of Sonipat, Haryana. Police said there was a shootout in which at least 28 bullets were fired by the police and the two men. Police have recovered three pistols and 8 live cartridges. Police said the two men are members of Sonipat’s Sandeep Badwasni gang. Badwasni, who was allegedly into illegal liquor business, was shot dead by rival gang members in February 2017. Police said the two men arrested in the present case had for long wanted to take revenge on Badswani’s killers. In September, they had shot at a Haryana police inspector, who was related to one of the killers. Deputy commissioner of police(special cell) Sanjeev Yadav said the Haryana police had announced a reward and sought help from Delhi police in nabbing Nanhas, who had shot at the Haryana police inspector. DCP Yadav said that police received information about Nanhas visiting Rohini area after which they waited. The officer said that at around 4 am, they spotted a white Honda City car near Rohini Khera village bridge and asked them to stop but the two men in the car accelerated and tried to flee. “To prevent their escape, they were blocked by police vehicle due to which their vehicle hit the road divider. They came out of the car quickly and tried to escape. They fired at police, which hit the bulletproof vest of two cops from Delhi and Haryana police. The police team fired back. Two bullets hit the legs of the two men. A total of 11 rounds bullet were fired by the criminals and the police fired total 17 rounds bullets. The accused were shifted to a hospital in Rohini through PCR van,” said Yadav. Police said the two men are involved in multiple criminal cases such as murder and attempt to murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-gangsters-held-after-shootout-in-rohini/story-f7vz5R2Pi2vNIcc7C2Jd6K.html
24-11-2020||City||St Stephen’s College sets up Covid-19 resilience fund to support needy students||New Delhi: St Stephen’s College has set up a Covid-19 Resilience Fund to support tuition fees of 50-100 students facing financial constraints due to the pandemic and urged present students and alumni to donate for the cause. The move comes days after the college staff association wrote to the principal, requesting the formation of a committee to look into the needs of marginalised students in the wake of the recent death by suicide of a student of Lady Shri Ram College (LSR) due to financial distress and the pressure of online education.“Covid-19 has hit us all hard! Between 50-100 Stephanians currently enrolled in different courses are struggling to finance their tuition fees due to changes in family circumstances because of Covid. We are appealing to all Stephanians to partially or fully support the tuition fees of those affected students. Your contribution will be recognised on the college website and the beneficiaries will be made known to you,” the college said.“These are extraordinary times, let’s do the extraordinary. Please write to bursar@ststephens.edu to make a donation to this fund,” the college notification said.The college has invited applications from second and third-year students requiring financial assistance. The college says students should have a minimum of first division as aggregate in university examinations to apply. “The annual income of the family should not exceed ₹5 lakh; they need to attach a valid income certificate. Applicants should not be receiving any other scholarship or financial aid that exceeds ₹20,000 from the college or any other agency. Any other achievement that would justify the application,” the college said in its notification.Earlier, a group of students from the college had independently initiated a fund-raising event to help students struggling to pay their fees and buy devices to attend digital classes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/st-stephen-s-college-sets-up-covid-19-resilience-fund-to-support-needy-students/story-zptFvLHukuinWx4rKRmOgJ.html
24-11-2020||Delhi||South civic body ties up with NTPC to set up solar panels, e-charging stations||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on Tuesday approved a proposal for installing rooftop solar panels at all its buildings as well as setting up e-charging stations at sites provided by the civic agency. The proposal was approved in a standing committee meeting on Tuesday.The SDMC will tie up with National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) for the execution of the project. Rajdutt Gehlot, chairman, SDMC standing committee, said the idea behind the proposal is to minimise the expenditure incurred on electricity at office buildings and to also generate revenue through e-charging stations. “After approval from the standing committee, now a memorandum of understanding (MOU) will be signed between the civic body and the NTPC for the project. This project will complete the requirement of electricity in SDMC as the civic body will purchase solar power from the NTPC for its consumption which will be cheaper,” he said.According to municipal officials, solar panels are already installed at 208 buildings and nearly 9.33 megawatt (MW) electricity is being generated through these panels. Similar work of installation of solar panels at 177 SDMC buildings is underway which will produce 0.8MW of electricity.“Under the project, the NTPC will install rooftop solar panels at 250 more buildings under the SDMC which will produce nearly 10MW electricity. The NTPC will also set up ground solar panels at a south corporation’s land in Ghummanhera for the generation of 20MW solar power. The civic body’s electricity demand is around 35MW which will be met by solar power after completion of the project,” a senior SDMC official said, on the condition of anonymity. The official also added that the work on the project is likely to be started in January next year.Besides, the NTPC will also set up e-vehicles charging stations at different locations in the SDMC jurisdiction. “We don’t have to spend any money on this. We will just provide the land and locations and entire infrastructure for solar panels and e-charging stations will be developed by the NTPC,” the official said.The official added that terms and conditions for revenue sharing are yet to be worked out. However, the responsibility of operations and maintenance of solar panels and e-charging stations will be on NTPC. The SDMC currently has at least 106 e-charging stations for its own electric vehicles and has also inaugurated one public e-charging station in Greater Kailash in November last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/south-civic-body-ties-up-with-ntpc-to-set-up-solar-panels-e-charging-stations/story-nJcdwLkLxLlhGMsEGzK0aI.html
24-11-2020||Delhi||Missing for a month, Delhi engineer found dead in Pune hotel||A 29-year-old engineer from Delhi was found dead in a hotel in Pune, officials said on Tuesday. The engineer, who worked in a private firm in Noida, Uttar Pradesh, is suspected to have died by suicide on Sunday. He is survived by his parents and a wife in her third trimester of pregnancy, according to the police. “There was a suicide note that we found in his hotel room. It was written inside a notebook in Hindi. It was pretty vague and mentioned some trouble that he had run into in life. There is no way of telling if it was work-related or personal,” said police inspector (crime) V Goud of Shivajinagar police station. He was reported missing by his family in Delhi since October last week while his body was found in a hotel located at Model Colony in Shivajinagar, Pune, officials said. The police are verifying whether he had any connection with Pune as he worked and had a family in Delhi. Also Read: Screening of passengers from Covid hotspots begins Wednesday in Mumbai, details are hereHis family members arrived in Pune on Monday and took custody of the body after a post-mortem was conducted. His death was recorded in an accidental death report at Shivajinagar police station. Police sub inspector PA Muthnale of Shivajinagar police station is investigating the case. The techie, according to Gaud, had recorded a message to wife which indicated that he attempted to end life multiple times before hanging himself in Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/missing-for-a-month-delhi-engineer-found-dead-in-pune-hotel/story-1KL8PzkrRuB8sjzjunkzLK.html
24-11-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Rate of scrap to be same through the day, says CICU president||With an aim to avoid disputes over the frequently fluctuating rates of scrap, the Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU) and Ludhiana re-roller mills association has agreed to fix a uniform rate for the entire day. Currently, the rate of scrap is fixed by suppliers in Mandi Gobindgarh and changes thrice a day. The decision was taken during a meeting held between the representatives of both associations on Tuesday. A dispute committee, consisting of senior members of both associations, has been formed to resolve the dispute between members over scrap rates.President of CICU, Upkar Singh Ahuja, said, “The re-roller mill owners purchase scrap from the members of CICU. Due to the fluctuations in the rates fixed by the suppliers in Mandi Gobindgarh, there are a lot of disputes. Now, we have decided that one rate will be fixed for the entire day and a dispute committee has also been formed to resolve the disputes between members of both associations.” President of Ludhiana re-roller mills association, Inderjit Singh, said that during the meeting, the members also deliberated upon different steps which can be taken to add more value to products.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-rate-of-scrap-to-be-same-through-the-day-says-cicu-president/story-TavW06kHQtYomGwJFZSvlL.html
24-11-2020||Chandigarh||National Clean Air Programme: ₹26 crore grant announced to reduce air pollution in Ludhiana||With an aim to improve air quality in the city, Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) and municipal corporation (MC) officials conducted a meeting under the National Clean Air Programme at MC Zone D office on Tuesday.Under the programme, authorities will work on different projects/policies to reduce air pollution at the industrial hub, for which a grant of Rs 26 crore has been announced by 15th Finance Commission. From Punjab, Amritsar has also been selected under the programme, and a grant of Rs 19 crore has been announced for the holy city.Recently, PPCB had conducted a source apportionment study through Punjab State Council for Science and Technology (PSCST), Chandigarh. The recommendations of the study were also discussed during the meeting. These include short, medium and long term measures, transport sector action plan, plan to deal with dust on roads and industrial action plan.PPCB officials said Rs 1 crore has been issued to MC to purchase a mechanical sweeping machine. PPCB member secretary, Krunesh Garg, said, “The grant will also be issued for the next four years. The Union government will also rank the cities under the programme next year. If a city performs well to reduce air pollution, it might get a grant of up to Rs 100 crore.”Garg said it was the first meeting under this programme and recommendations of the study have been shared with MC. While civic body officials will work on ground level, PPCB will oversee the entire programme. MC officials have been told to take some immediate steps like stopping garbage burning, mechanical sweeping of roads and installing water sprinklers on roadsides.MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “It was a fruitful session and PPCB officials have apprised us of the recommendations. The final decision on these will be taken shortly and every effort will be made to reduce air pollution in the city. Under this programme, four new air pollution monitoring points will be set up in the city.”CETPs inspected Sabharwal and Garg also visited the under construction common effluent treatment plants (CETPs) for Focal point and Tajpur Road dyeing industry. The CETPs are being constructed to treat the waste from the dyeing industry, which is currently being released into Buddha Nullah through MC sewer lines. Garg said testing of the Focal Point plant is expected to start mid-December.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/national-clean-air-programme-26-crore-grant-announced-to-reduce-air-pollution-in-ludhiana/story-zuh6W2vRuZ0cg8SgcVUkOO.html
24-11-2020||City||Gang of conmen that took loans on fake documents busted in Ludhiana||Police have busted a gang of conmen, who took loans from banks and finance companies using fake documents, with the arrest of its seven members.According to police, the accused have duped the banks and firms of lakhs of rupees.They have been identified as Vijay Kumar of Krishna Nagar, Anshuman of Laxmi Nagar, Sushil Kumar of Mahadev Nagar, Suraj of Makkar Colony, Sanjay Kumar of Prem Nagar, Rohit of Village Bhora Colony and Ram Narayan of Laxmi Nagar.They were arrested from Eastman Chowk following a tip-off on Tuesday. According to police the accused ran a shop where they helped people with documents, such as Aadhaar and PAN cards. Using these documents fraudulently, they got mobile phone connections and opened bank accounts in the names of unwary people. Then they availed of bank loans and never paid these off.The matter came to fore after people started getting notices from the banks and finance companies for clearing the loans. After an investigation led by inspector Sukhpal Kaur of the Ludhiana police cyber cell, police registered a case under Sections 419, 420, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 66-B and 66-D of the Information and Technology Act at the Sahnewal station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gang-of-conmen-that-took-loans-on-fake-documents-busted-in-ludhiana/story-p2MkrGvCIMRhgu2rqkW7NI.html
24-11-2020||Chandigarh||Soon, all vehicles registered in Chandigarh to pay cow cess||Soon, people may have to pay cow cess even if their vehicle being registered in Chandigarh is purchased from some other state/UT.A proposal for the same will be submitted before the MC general house meeting scheduled for November 27.In June, the administration had already started imposing cow fee on vehicles being purchased in the city. But, the Registration and Licensing Authority (RLA), which collects the amount on the behalf of the MC, recently submitted that provision should be made in the cow fee notification allowing the imposition of a fee on vehicles purchased outside the Chandigarh but registered with the RLA here.In the original order, the mandate is for the imposition of Rs 500 fee on the four-wheeler and Rs 200 on the two-wheelers purchased in Chandigarh.The RLA stated that their office is unable to ask any person to deposit a cow fee from a legal point of view in case the vehicle is purchased from outside the city but registered with it. It recommended an amendment in the original cow fee notification.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/vehicles-bought-elsewhere-but-registered-in-chandigarh-to-pay-cow-cess-too/story-jxeSKhwDCoY6cWpYSHEn2O.html
24-11-2020||Chandigarh||Passengers relieved as train services resume in Ludhiana||With goods and passenger trains resuming operations in the state after two months on Tuesday, it has come as a relief for passengers at the Ludhiana railway station, which is one of the biggest in the Ferozepur railway division. Before the Covid outbreak, around 150 trains used to ply on the tracks of the Ludhiana railway station. But, this was reduced to around 20 amid spread of the infection. On Tuesday, eight passenger trains arrived from other states, while 11 left from or through Ludhiana. Also, around a dozen goods trains crossed the Ludhiana station, which comes as a relief to industrialists, who were struggling to transport goods.Residents who visited the railway station to board trains or book tickets said travelling by trains was cheaper and time-efficient compared to buses.Gurdeep Singh, a visitor at the station, said, “I have a transport business in Ludhiana and Jharkhand. I had to visit Jharkhand, but could not, as train services were suspended in the last week of September. Travelling by bus would take almost three days and cost seven to eight times more. I have now booked a train ticket for November 27.”Another visitor, Damanjit Singh, said, “I have booked a ticket for Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh. However, no tickets are available for sleeper class. Travelling by bus is arduous as it will require changing a number of buses to reach the destination.”Meanwhile, residents said more trains should resume their services soon. A passenger, Nitish, said, “I wanted to book a ticket for Gorakhpur, but was told that no tickets were available for that destination. Authorities should press more trains into service to bring back normalcy in railway transport.”Ludhiana railway station director, Tarun Kumar, said, “The number of trains will increase gradually. Unreserved booking counters have been closed as per Covid guidelines issued by the government and residents can travel only by reserving their tickets in advance.”Apart from reserving the seats through the ticker reservation counters at the railway station, residents can also reserve the seats through the IRCTC Rail Connect mobile app. Also, tickets can be booked through private licenced agencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/passengers-relieved-as-train-services-resume-in-ludhiana/story-LcENhx0f0NWP832wDzyEpO.html
24-11-2020||Dehradun||21-year-old barber arrested for cutting Shikha of a VHP leader||Uttarakhand police on Tuesday arrested 21-year-old barber Iftkhar for allegedly cutting shikha--a tuft of hair on top of head of Hindus which has religious significance-- of a Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) leader, said police. The accused was arrested and sent to jail on Tuesday. He has been booked under IPC section 295A for a deliberate or malicious act intended to outrage religious feeling of any class by insulting its religion, said police. Bhagwan Singh Mahar, station officer of Mukhani police station in Nainital district said one 56-year-old Vishhambar Datt Paladiya from Jaipur Padli village in Haldwani had filed a complaint on Monday, alleging that a barber cut his and his brother’s shikha (tuft of hair) while cutting their hair. “We filed an FIR under section IPC 295A on Monday evening and hand over the investigation to one of our sub inspectors.” “In our probe, we found that one 21-year-old Iftkhar, a resident of Ajeetpur from Rampur was working as an employee at the barber shop. We arrested him on Tuesday and produced him in the local court from there he was sent to jail,” said Tribhuvan Singh Adhikari, the investigating officer in the caseAdhikari said when they questioned the barber about the allegation of cutting shikha, he said it happened by mistake. Vishhambar Datt Paladiya has alleged in the complaint that he and his elder brother went to the barber shop to get a haircut but the barber deliberately cut their Shikha. Also Read: Mahakumbh 2021 expected to peak with 1st Shahi Snan on March 11Paladiya, a former district president of VHP, said, “My elder brother and I had gone to take a haircut at a barber shop at Lamachaur market. We cautioned him about our Shikha, but even then the barber cut it. This hurt our religious sentiments.” Following the incident, Paladiya and his supporters created ruckus in front of the barber shop. When police came to know, it reached the spot and pacified them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/21-year-old-barber-arrested-for-cutting-shikha-of-a-vhp-leader/story-tShQhho79lekg9s9cy93AK.html
24-11-2020||City||Ludhiana family found murdered kept to themselves, say neighbours||Shockwaves spread through Mayur Vihar on Humbran Road as residents woke up to the news of four murders in a house on Tuesday. Rajiv Sunda, 60, a local, had hacked four members of his family to death with an axe and knife before fleeing in his Maruti Suzuki Swift car, which he later set ablaze and went missing.The victims were Rajiv’s wife Sunita Sunda, 58, son Ashish Sunda, 35, daughter-in-law Garima Sunda, 32, and grandson Suchet, 12. The father-son duo was into the business of construction and share trading.According to neighbours, the Sunda family kept to themselves and hardly socialised with the neighbours. Even Suchet never stepped out to play with the children in the street.Mayur Vihar lies in the ward of mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, who also reached the spot and interacted with police and locals about the crime.Vishal Vij, a neighbour, said he had been living in the area for the past 12 years and the Sunda family was also there for long. But, he had never interacted with anyone in the family all these years.“They (Sunda family) rarely came out of the house. Rajiv would inform his family before his arrival in the evening and they would open the main gate of the house to allow him to drive the car straight inside,” he added. The neighbours said quarrels between the family were a common affair. A domestic help, who lives in front of the Sunda house, said she heard some voices from the house on Tuesday, but disregarded it as spats were in the house were routine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-family-found-murdered-kept-to-themselves-say-neighbours/story-P5eLQYu1L1NsV7AzpWekkM.html
24-11-2020||India||3,000 weddings slated to take place in Jaipur in Nov; officials fear Covid surge||Notwithstanding the recent spurt in Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan, more than 3,000 weddings are scheduled to take place in the capital city Jaipur over the next few days, posing a grave threat to people’s lives amid the pandemic outbreak.Officials fear that the infection may spread rapidly in the city due to such events.“We have received applications for permission to more than 3,000 weddings in the month of November. The permission is being given offline and online,” Additional District Collector-Jaipur, Shankar Lal Saini told PTI.A majority of the weddings this month will take place on November 25, on the occasion of ‘Dev Uthani Ekadashi’, and up to 100 people are allowed to attend a marriage function.Saini said the situation is alarming because the infection is spreading at a fast pace.“It is certainly a challenging situation in view of the increase in Covid positive cases. The district administration and police officials are constantly making people aware about the need to follow guidelines like maintaining social distancing and wearing face masks,” he said.Taking into account the sudden spike in the cases in the last few days, the state government has imposed night curfew in eight district headquarters, including Jaipur, from 8 pm to 6 am. However, those attending marriage functions are exempted from it. The official said the state government has also increased the penalty amount from Rs 10,000 to Rs 25,000 if more than 100 people gather in marriages and other events.“The district administration and police officials will be in the field to check any violation, and action as per the guidelines and government orders will be taken,” he said.Ravi Jindal, president of tent dealers association, said the number of wedding events may go up to 4,000 in Jaipur alone in the coming days.“The coronavirus pandemic has badly hit the business of the wedding industry, which directly and indirectly gives employment to over 10 lakh people in the state like tent dealers, florists, caterers, event planners, among others, and all of them are facing crisis,” he said.Jindal said due to the restriction on the number of people attending a wedding event, two to three marriage events are taking place at the same venue.Astrologer Ayush Bhardwaj said Dev Uthani Ekadashi is considered the most auspicious occasion for marriage, therefore, the maximum number of weddings will take place on this day.Other auspicious days for marriage in the month of November are November 27 and November 30, he said.Rajasthan recorded 19 more fatalities due to coronavirus on Tuesday, taking the Covid-19 death toll in the state to 2,200, according to a health department bulletin.The state also reported 3,314 fresh Covid-19 cases which mounted the infection tally to 2,50,482, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/3-000-weddings-slated-to-take-place-in-jaipur-in-nov-officials-fear-covid-surge/story-vC2tv96MiDdTKZCVuPgnmM.html
24-11-2020||Chandigarh||SDM chairs meeting to review condition of Ambala cemetery||The district administration on Tuesday swung into action to review the condition of the historic Ambala Christian Cemetery on Jagadhari Road, which is virtually in ruins due to neglect and feud between two parties for its control.Earlier on Monday, an archaeology department official visited the site to carry out observational tasks. The move followed reports by the Hindustan Times on the dilapidated state of the cemetery, and a letter shot off by Rajya Sabha MP from Rajasthan KJ Alphons to the Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar and principal secretary to the state government (archaeology and museums department) Ashok Khemka with a plea to save the burial ground. In Tuesday’s meeting, Ambala city sub divisional magistrate (SDM) Sachin Gupta spoke to officials concerned about repair and maintenance of the boundary wall, water drainage system and cleaning up of the heritage site.Gupta said the matter had come up before home minister Anil Vij and a report sought by higher authorities on the state protected site. “I’ve directed the executive officer of Ambala Sadar municipal council, Vinod Nehra, to prepare estimates for cleaning up of the ground. The SDO public works department Ritesh Goyal has been asked to check the water drainage system and prepare estimates necessary for the repairs of the cemetery,” Gupta said. On being asked about a letter written by the archaeology department in September on estimates for maintenance of the site, Gupta said, “Yes, the task has to be carried out by both the departments, which have been given a week. But usually the type of clearance the archaeology department carries out requires some specific contractors that are difficult to find.”Archaeology department official visits siteShubham Malik, technical assistant with the archaeology department and in-charge of the cemetery on Monday checked the illegal encroachments along the boundary wall, war graves and sewage water issues. Cemetery Committee officials said this was Malik’s second visit, the first one being in September after they requested the archaeology department for help . Banani Bhattacharyya, deputy director of the department had told HT last week that the department had already written a letter to the Ambala deputy commissioner to carry out scientific clearance at the site. “We took the initiative because the site is an urgent need of cleaning and this is the best season to carry out clearance. For this, we needed an estimate of the area and we’ve written to DC in this regard,” she had said. Under scientific clearance, cleaning or restoration process is carried out without causing damage to monuments (graves in this instance). Use of heavy machinery is avoided and most of the work is done manually. A few days earlier Father Patras Mundu, secretary and treasurer of the Ambala Cemetery Committee, had said the site was common property belonging to the Christian community. He had alleged that one Shaukatt Masih Bhatti had claimed the property.Bhatti had denied the charges and said he was the president of the cemetery .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sdm-chairs-meeting-to-review-condition-of-ambala-cemetery/story-pAUUF4n6FLVh3ZIlKUAEgN.html
24-11-2020||Pune||Delhi-based engineer found dead in Pune hotel||A 29-year-old engineer from Delhi was found dead in a hotel in Pune on Sunday.The engineer, who worked with a private company in Noida, Uttar Pradesh, is suspected to have died by suicide, according to the police. He is survived by his parents and a wife in her third trimester of pregnancy, according to the police.“We found a note in his hotel room. It was written in Hindi inside a notebook. It was pretty vague and mentioned some trouble that he had run into in life. There is no way of telling if it was work-related or personal,” said police inspector (crime) V Goud of the Shivajinagar police station.He was reported missing by his family in Delhi while his body was found in a hotel located at Model Colony in Shivajinagar, Pune. The family had even lodged a missing complaint in Delhi on October 30. The police are verifying whether he had any connection with Pune as he worked and had a family in Delhi.His family members arrived in Pune on Monday and took custody of the body after a post-mortem was conducted. The techie, according to Gaud, had recorded a message for his wife. His death was recorded in an accidental death report at Shivajinagar police station. Police sub-inspector PA Muthnale of Shivajinagar police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/delhi-based-engineer-found-dead-in-pune-hotel/story-Jf2byQdwGO1N54lSfh2sKK.html
24-11-2020||Mumbai||Who is Pratap Sarnaik, the Shiv Sena MLA from Maharashtra now on ED radar?||Pratap Sarnaik, who finds himself in an investigation by the Enforcement Directorate (ED), joined the Shiv Sena in November 2008 from the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). In the past 12 years, Sarnaik was elected as the legislator from Ovala-Majiwada constituency in Thane thrice, rose in the party to become a key functionary in Mira-Bhayander and Thane region, and was recently appointed the party’s spokesperson. The 56-year-old Sena legislator is a real estate developer in Thane and also has business in the hospitality industry with restaurants and clubs in and around Mumbai. Also read: ED raids Shiv Sena lawmaker Pratap Sarnaik’s premisesSarnaik, who used to drive autorickshaw in Thane in the mid-1980s, declared assets worth Rs143 crore in his affidavit filed ahead of the 2019 Assembly elections.Sarnaik’s assets have increased nearly 800% from Rs16.15 crore in 2009.Sarnaik is considered close to Sena chief and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and is one of the key leaders for the party from Thane region, where the Sena holds sway. Recently, Sarnaik was in the news for taking on ally-turned-foe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the Anvay Naik suicide abetment case, the controversy around actor Kangana Ranaut and taking on Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami. Sarnaik raised the issues of the Naik family, seeking reinvestigation in the case. He also moved a privilege motion against Goswami in the state legislative Assembly. Also read: MLA Pratap Sarnaik’s properties raided: Sena, Cong, NCP term it vendetta; BJP says not ED action not politically motivatedHis elder son, Vihang, who is detained by ED for further questioning in a money laundering case, is predominantly involved in the family business, while Purvesh, his younger son, is a secretary of Aaditya Thackeray-headed Yuva Sena and a core member of the youth wing. He is also a corporator in the Thane Municipal Corporation. Purvesh is married to former BJP minister Dr Ranjit Patil’s daughter Kashmira. Sarnaik also has good contacts in the Marathi film and theatre circles. Several Marathi film personalities attend the events organised by him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/who-is-pratap-sarnaik-the-shiv-sena-mla-from-maharashtra-now-on-ed-radar/story-lcjA5ZGpfcBLl2NHHXBouM.html
24-11-2020||City||Ludhiana: Class-12 student bludgeoned to death with bricks by youth, minor||The Class-12 student found dead in a sewer on Monday was murdered by his neighbour over suspicion of having an affair with the latter’s cousin, police said on Tuesday.Sandeep Singh, alias Ravi, 22, of Baddowal village, and his minor accomplice have been arrested for the murder of Jashanpreet Singh, 18, resident of the same village.Sandeep is also a Class-12 student, while the juvenile works at a sweet shop in the village. Police have recovered the motorcycle used in the crime and the mobile phone of the victim, who was missing since November 21.“Sandeep suspected Jashanpreet of having an affair with his cousin sister. Sandeep called him to Victoria Gardens colony in Baddowal on November 21, where, after consuming liquor, he indulged in a quarrel with Jashanpreet. There, he and the minor boy bludgeoned the victim with bricks,” said Charanjit Singh, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Ludhiana Rural.After the victim lost consciousness, Sandeep dragged him for 50 metres and crushed his head with bricks, before dumping the body in a sewer with the intention of disposing of the body, the SSP added. However, the body got stuck in iron rails as the sewer was not functional.On November 23, village sarpanch Jaspreet Singh informed the police about the body. When the police received the information, the victim’s father, Gurdev Singh, was at the police station filing a missing person’s report for his son. Cops took him to the spot, where he identified the body as that of his son.Following this, the Dakha police lodged a murder case against unidentified accused and initiated investigation.Call details nailed accused“According to the victim’s mother, Jashanpreet had left home on November 21 after receiving a phone call. But, he never returned and his phone was switched off,” said Gurbans Singh Bains, deputy superintendent of police (DSP, Dakha).“When the police scanned the victim’s call details, they found a call from Sandeep and started zeroing in on him. As his mobile location was traced to Victoria Gardens at the time of the crime, he was arrested. Following his statement, his minor accomplice was also apprehended,” said the DSP.“During questioning, the accused disclosed that they only wanted to threaten Jashanpreet to snap ties with Sandeep’s cousin, but attacked him in drunken stupor,” he added.Police have added Section 201 (causing disappearance of evidence) of the Indian Penal Code to the murder case registered against the accused. The accused will be produced in court on Wednesday.The body was handed over to the family following autopsy at the Ludhiana civil hospital on Monday.Jashanpreet is survived by his parents and an elder brother.His father works for a brass band and mother is a homemaker. The family had shifted to Baddowal village over a month ago.Minor turns 18 todayThe juvenile nabbed in the murder case will celebrate his 18th birthday on November 25. When the police apprehended him on Tuesday, he was just one day short of attaining the age to be tried as an adult. DSP Gurbans Singh Bains said as the accused was a minor at the time of his arrest, police will treat him as a juvenile. But, they will appeal in court to consider him an adult during the murder trial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-class-12-student-bludgeoned-to-death-with-bricks-by-youth-minor/story-1AmaAYqzJZuAKPd0g14daO.html
24-11-2020||City||Ludhiana MC gets third-time lucky, finds bidders for 4 parking lots||In its third attempt to auction five parking lots in the city, the municipal corporation (MC) opened technical bids for the tenders on Tuesday. While three bidders each came forward for the parking lots at Feroze Gandhi market, Bhadaur House and multi-storey parking near MC’s Zone A office; two bids were received for the BRS Nagar market parking and none for that at the Model Town extension market, primarily due to its low footfall.The parking lot at Sarabha Nagar Block-I market was auctioned for Rs 4.3 lakh on November 17. Currently managing the parking lots on its own, the civic body has been trying to auction these since October. Minimum three bidders are required to conduct an e-auction, but the number could not be met on the last two occasions. Authorities said as per rules, if even a single bidder comes forward for the third time, MC can go ahead with the e-auction.The multi-storey parking has a reserve price of Rs 80.5 lakh and those in BRS Nagar Rs 18.5 lakh, Bhadaur House Rs 27.5 lakh and Feroze Gandhi market Rs 80.1 lakh. MC secretary Neeraj Jain said, “The technical bids were opened on Tuesday and these bids will now be scrutinised. The date of auction has not been finalised yet, but it is likely to be held within a week. The final decision will be taken by higher authorities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mc-tries-for-the-third-time-to-auction-5-parking-lots/story-H35okamdPkWH0vlu5aYHyH.html
24-11-2020||Mumbai||MLA Pratap Sarnaik’s properties raided: Sena, Cong, NCP term it vendetta; BJP says not ED action not politically motivated||Terming the searches carried out by Enforcement Directorate (ED) on the properties of Shiv Sena legislator Pratap Sarnaik and detention of his son, Vihang, “political vendetta”, the party said Maharashtra legislators will not surrender to such pressure. The Sena’s allies – the Nationalist Congress Party and Congress –said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was now using Central agencies to disrupt the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. However, leader of the opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis dismissed any politically motivated action. Speaking to reporters in Mumbai, Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut said the move was politically motivated. He dared the BJP to come out in the open to fight the Shiv Sena and “not hide behind Central agencies”. Also read: ED raids Shiv Sena lawmaker Pratap Sarnaik’s premises“If anybody thinks this government will come under pressure with the use of central agencies, they are living in a fool’s paradise. No matter what they use, be it the ED or CBI, our leaders and legislators will not surrender. Not just the next four years, but this government will last for the next 25 years. No matter how many notices you send, how many raids you conduct or false papers and evidence you create, the truth will prevail,” Raut said. He added, “The BJP should come out in the open and fight us and not use Central powers and agencies like ED and CBI as tools. The ED or any other agency should not work as a branch of a political party.” NCP chief Sharad Pawar, who got served a notice by ED in October 2019, called the use of agencies against political opponents inappropriate. He said the MVA government has the backing of the people and the BJP was using the ED to dislodge the government. “The MVA government has completed one year in power. The BJP has realised now that they cannot dislodge the government and hence they have been using the power they have as the ruling party at the national level. Instead of answering the questions raised by people, Central agencies are being used against political opponents, which is not appropriate,” he said. Maharashtra Congress chief and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat echoed his allies’ thoughts. “No such action has been taken against any leader in BJP-led states. Leaders who have been taking a stand against the BJP are facing such actions. The ED action against Sarnaik is unfortunate and objectionable and taken to suppress the voice against the BJP,” he said. Also read: Raided by ED, TOPSGRUP denies link with Shiv Sena MLA Sarnaik, partyFadnavis, who was in Solapur, said, “The ED does not initiate any action unless it has solid evidence. I am not aware of the details about the action by the ED. However, I can say that nobody should be scared of any such action if nothing wrong has been done.” Sarnaik later emerged at Sena mouthpiece Saamana office in Parel for the first time since the ED action began on Tuesday morning. He held an hour-long meeting with Raut at the office. Sarnaik refused to comment on the ED raid or the exact case in which his son Vihang was detained. Sarnaik is also said to have held a meeting with his lawyers on the case. “Let me find out what has happened. So far, we do not have any details,” he said. When the media persons outside Saamana asked his whereabouts since morning, he said, “I will speak later on all issues.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mla-pratap-sarnaik-s-properties-raided-sena-cong-ncp-term-it-vendetta-bjp-says-not-ed-action-not-politically-motivated/story-zfJemlF2BMuq6y3Kl922BL.html
24-11-2020||Mumbai||Screening of passengers from Covid hotspots begins Wednesday in Mumbai, details are here||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will start screening outstation train passengers for Covid-19 symptoms and begin spot testing at major railway stations that handle outstation trains in Mumbai from Wednesday as per Maharashtra government’s decision to screen incoming passengers from Delhi, NCR, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Goa.Mumbai civic body said it will start screening of passengers at railway stations such as Borivali, Dadar, Bandra Terminus, CST and Mumbai Central and test those who are found symptomatic. Those showing symptoms will be tested using rapid antigen kits.This decision was taken after the state government made it compulsory to test citizens arriving from above mentioned places for Covid-19 at airports and railway stations including at land borders. As per the latest guidelines, passengers travelling in flights from Delhi, Rajasthan, Goa and Gujarat will have to produce a negative RT-PCR report on landing at airports in Maharashtra. The test should have done 72 hours prior to the scheduled journey.Also Read: Centre asks CMs to form vaccination panel, identify the vulnerable. Most say they are ready The civic body has also asked the Mumbai airport authorities to follow state government directives on testing domestic passengers. The passengers travelling in trains from these destinations will have to produce negative report obtained 96 hours prior to journey on arrival. Passengers who do not have a negative test report will be screened and tested using antigen kits, if found to be symptomatic.Also Read: SC adjourns for two weeks Arnab Goswami’s plea against privilege noticeFurther, people travelling by roads to Maharashtra, too, will have to undergo screening at the borders check posts. The people with symptoms will have to undergo antigen test. If found positive travellers will be admitted to Covid centres and would have to bear the treatment cost.According to BMC officials, they have informed all wards to be on alert where inbound outstation trains arrive. These include stations like Borivali, Andheri, Bandra Terminus, Dadar, Mumbai Central, CSTM, and Kurla Terminus.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, said, “We already have screening camps at airport and train stations. With this, we will also arrange for antigen kits testing at railway stations. However, patients will also be referred to laboratories, in case of crowding at railway stations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/screening-of-passengers-from-covid-hotspots-begins-wednesday-in-mumbai-details-are-here/story-PhkYYbW5ExZOGZbfnJGTNM.html
24-11-2020||Mumbai||Woman carrying Rs6-crore cocaine arrested at Mumbai airport||The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) on Monday arrested a woman flier, Ellena Kasakatira, 43, allegedly carrying cocaine worth ₹6 crore at the Mumbai airport. The woman, a citizen of Malawi, an eastern African country, had arrived from Addis Ababa to Mumbai via Dubai. A senior DRI official said officials from the Mumbai zonal unit had received a specific intelligence about the woman. She was carrying a trolley bag, which was examined under the provisions of NDPS Act, 1985. “During the examination, two packages wrapped in black carbon paper were found concealed in the special cavity made in the bag. On examination, each package was found to contain 500gm of cocaine,” he said. Also read: Woman arrested with ₹11-lakh cocaine in MumbaiKasakatira was arrested under relevant sections of NDPS Act, 1985 for possession of drugs and was produced before the additional chief metropolitan magistrate, Esplanade, Mumbai on Tuesday. She has been remanded in judicial custody up to December 7. DRI officials said they have observed a change in modus operandi adopted by the drug mules, from body concealment to meticulous baggage concealment, which throws newer challenges to law enforcement agencies. DRI officials said this was the second cocaine seizure within a week. Earlier, the agency had seized 502gm of cocaine which was shipped to India in a parcel and had arrested four persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/woman-carrying-rs6-crore-cocaine-arrested-at-mumbai-airport/story-D7HyZ8SJHqEKPmwsaxhmOL.html
24-11-2020||City||102 people test positive in Ludhiana, three succumb to Covid-19||Covid-19 claimed three lives in the district that also saw 102 people testing positive on Tuesday.With this, the case tally rose to 22,242 and the death toll to 886.As many as 835 cases remain active, while 20,518 patients have recovered.Those who died include an 85-year-old man from Kundanpuri, a 73-year-old man from Shimlapuri and a 57-year-old man from Baddowal.Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said a total of 116 patients (102 from Ludhiana and 14 from other states/districts) tested positive here in the last 24 hours.He said till date, a total of 4,37,776 samples had been collected, of which 4,10,488 were found negative and reports of another 1,907 were pending.Apart from the 886 Covid fatalities in Ludhiana, 372 patients from other districts and states had also died here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/102-people-test-positive-in-ludhiana-three-succumb-to-covid-19/story-fBeJJ33ufczaZdzHNNda9L.html
24-11-2020||City||Worker missing after stealing ₹6 lakh from Ludhiana shop, booked||A worker, who has been missing after allegedly stealing Rs 6 lakh in cash from a garment shop in Basti Jodhewal, was booked on Tuesday.The accused has been identified as Sahil of Haibowal. The shop’s owner, Laxman Das, told the police that he ran a readymade garment shop in Basti Jodhewal.On November 15, he had collected payments totaling Rs 6 lakh and kept the cash in a box at the shop. When he returned the next day, he was shocked to see the cash had disappeared, with no sign of a break-in.Das said his worker, Sahil, who had duplicate keys of the shop, was missing since that day. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Om Parkash, who is investigating the case, said an FIR under Sections 381 (theft by clerk or servant of property in possession of master) and 34 (acts done in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code had been lodged at the Daresi police station and efforts were on to arrest Sahil and recover the money.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/worker-missing-after-stealing-6-lakh-from-ludhiana-shop-booked/story-J4xcIw0iwVsV1f15LZpckO.html
24-11-2020||City||Potholed road fixed in Ludhiana’s Model Town, MC official gets show-cause notice for delay||Taking note of residents’ complaints regarding the potholed Jawaddi Road in Model Town, the civic body has repaired it and the municipal corporation (MC) commissioner has issued a show-cause notice to assistant engineer (AE) Balwinder Singh for delaying the work. On November 9, a girl had suffered serious head injury after her two-wheeler fell due to a pothole. Following this, residents took to the social media to slam the civic body for its apathy. A complaint regarding this was also filed with the chief minister’s office. As senior officials came to know about this, a show-cause notice was issued to the AE. Besides, the road was repaired twice, as the first job was not executed properly on Monday.“This is the fourth road repair for the pothole since November 9. In the first two instances, the pothole was filled with rubble and interlocking tiles. As that failed to solve the purpose, the road was repaired with hot-mix on Monday and again on Tuesday. Had the MC acted sooner, several accidents could have been averted,” said Jaskirat Singh, an area resident. MC commissioner Pradeep Sabharwal said, “Superintending engineers have been directed to repair potholes in their respective areas. The AE has been given three days to submit a reply to the show-cause notice.” Another AE gets noticeA show-cause notice has also been issued to assistant engineer Rakesh Singla for his failure to keep a check on the inferior road construction work being done by a contractor in Giaspura. Officer on special duty to the CM, Ankit Bansal had earlier complained to the MC chief against this. Singla has been told to submit a reply in three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/potholed-road-fixed-in-ludhiana-s-model-town-mc-official-gets-show-cause-notice-for-delay/story-TpfWhhXz2OwHOqftcchCaK.html
24-11-2020||Chandigarh||Navjot Singh Sidhu gets a lunch invite. It is from his ex-boss||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh has invited former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu for lunch on Wednesday. “He & @sherryontopp are expected to discuss state & national politics over the luncheon meeting,” Amarinder’s media adviser Raveen Thukral tweeted. Amarinder Singh and Navjot Singh Sidhu are not on the best of terms ever since the latter exited the state council of ministers after being divested of the local government department last year, but there have been efforts lately from both leaders to break the ice. Earlier, Amarinder asked Sidhu to second the resolution in the state assembly against the Centre’s farm laws and then the latter also participated in a protest led by the chief minister in Delhi. All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary and state in-charge Harish Rawat has been openly trying for a rapprochement between Amarinder and Sidhu and also been pushing for an important role for the cricketer-turned-politician. Though there is discontent in a section of the party over the importance being given by him to Sidhu, Rawat recently advised the state leaders to be more “flexible and accommodating” towards the former minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/capt-amarinder-singh-invites-navjot-singh-sidhu-for-lunch-on-wednesday/story-ZkGihOfsjKiucSrrY7gX3O.html
24-11-2020||Pune||ED searches Sarnaik’s home: Fadnavis says agency must have evidence||Former chief minister and leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday said that the Enforcement Directorate (ED) must have evidence based on which it acted against Shiv Sena legislator and spokesperson Pratap Sarnaik and his sons Vihang and Purvesh. The central probe agency raided 10 premises in Mumbai and Thane linked to Sarnaiks and the premises of the TOPSGRUP. The ED, according to officials, suspects that companies linked to Pratap Sarnaik and his sons have pumped money into TOPSGRUP’s Rahul Nanda’s businesses and wants to investigate possible money laundering. “If ED has carried out searches, the agency must have done it based on some complaints or material they possess. I do not know much about the case since I am touring the state. For those who have not made any mistake, they do not need to be scared,” said Fadnavis while speaking to reporters in Solapur where he was campaigning for Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate Sangram Deshmukh, ahead of the graduate constituency polls. Reacting to Sena MP and spokesperson Sanjay Raut’s remarks that the action by ED is part of BJP’s vendetta politics and similar action can be taken against over 100 leaders from the BJP, Fadnavis said, “I challenge Sanjay Raut to please release list of 100 people. If there’s any substance, I will ask probe agency to initiate an investigation.” The former CM said that wherever there is action, Sena often cries foul. Following the ED action, Raut, without naming the BJP, said that the party should forget the dream of coming to power in Maharashtra for the next 25 years, “no matter how much pressure it exerts or spreads terror through agencies. If you have begun today, we know how to end it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/ed-searches-at-sarnaik-s-home-fadnavis-says-agency-must-have-evidence/story-V7HqaJ7fJEoW1rfy7bkh4L.html
24-11-2020||Chandigarh||2 cubs born to Asiatic lion pair in Kangra’s Dhauladhar Zoo||The family of Asiatic lion pair Himal and Akira has expanded with two cubs born to them at the Dhauladhar Nature Park, also known as Gopalpur Zoo in Kangra district on Sunday morning.With the births, the park now has four Asiatic lions.Divisional forest officer (wildlife) Rahul Rohane said lion Himal and lioness Akira had been brought from the Sakkarbaug Zoological Garden, Junagadh, Gujarat, to the Dhauladhar Nature Park as part of the Wildlife Exchange Programme in December 2019.The state had sent a pair of Himalayan black bears to Gujarat.Rohane said that the gender of the two cubs had not been determined as they were still in the enclosure where Akira had given birth. The park authorities were keeping a watch on them through CCTV.Congratulating the staff and officials managing the park for the rare lion breeding event, principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife) and chief wildlife warden Archana Sharma asked them to take special care of the cubsThe Dhauladhar Nature Park is located at Gopalpur village in Palampur sub-division of Kangra district, about 21 km from Dharamshala.There were no lions in the park till Himal and Akira’s arrival last year as an older pair died in 2016 because of age-related issues.The zoo, founded in 1990, has 180 wild animals of 22 species, including leopard, Himalayan black bear, sambar deer, barking deer, ghoral, cheer pheasants, Bhutan grey peacocks, red junglefowl, wild pigs, Indian crested porcupine, vultures and eagles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-cubs-born-to-asiatic-lion-pair-in-kangra-s-dhauladhar-zoo/story-jXBgx9DEpBOnqaFkV1AaqK.html
24-11-2020||City||Ludhiana man hacks four members of his family to death, goes missing||Rajiv Sunda, 60, a resident of Ludhiana’s Mayur Vihar, hacked four members of his family to death with an axe and knife on Tuesday morning before fleeing in his Maruti Suzuki Swift car only to set it ablaze and go missing, police said. The car was found burnt on Humbran Road, 4km from his house, the police said, adding a search was on for the absconding accused. The victims were identified as the accused’s wife Sunita Sunda, 58, son Ashish Sunda, 35, daughter-in-law Garima Sunda, 32, and grandson Suchet, 12. Rajiv and his son Ashish were in the business of building construction and share trading. SUICIDE NOTE RECOVERED A suicide note was recovered from the house in which Rajiv Sunda claimed that he had taken the extreme step as his daughter-in-law used to threaten to implicate him in a fake dowry case. He said that the family members of his daughter-in-law had not returned money they had borrowed and were trying to extort more money by threatening him.ALSO READ: FAMILY KEPT TO THEMSELVES, QUARRELS WERE ROUTINE, SAY NEIGHBOURSPolice commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said a family dispute could have led to the murders but things would be clear once the accused is arrested. Garima’s brother Ashok Kumar found the bodies when he reached the house at 6.30am. He told the police that Suchet called him up around 6am, saying that his grandfather and grandmother were beating him and his father. When he reached the house, he found Rajiv Sunda driving his car out of the house. “I asked Rajiv about the matter but he in turn told me to wait and let him take the car out of the house. Instead of explaining anything, Rajiv sped away. I sensed something fishy and alerted neighbours before entering the house,” Ashok Kumar said. “On entering the house, we were shocked to find the bodies of Sunita, Ashish, Garima and Suchet. We immediately informed the police,” he said. ALL BODIES BORE MULTIPLE INJURIES Additional deputy commissioner of police (City-3) Sameer Verma said the bodies of Garima and Suchet were on a bed, while Sunita lay dead on the floor. Ashish’s body was found in the lobby. All bodies bore multiple injuries, including on the throat. The police have recovered an axe and a knife used to commit the crime from the spot. Minutes later, the police found the burnt car of Rajiv Sunda on the side of Humbran Road. It is suspected that he fled after torching the car. While escaping, he hit a scooterist also. The police are investigating if the family members were awake, why didn’t they resist or shout for help.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-man-hacks-four-members-of-his-family-to-death-goes-missing/story-VymOhwSMcnUWbsLUunWtMM.html
24-11-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Four teams deployed to search for missing tigress in Rajaji Tiger Reserve||After not being able to sight a 20-year-old tigress for almost two months, Uttarakhand forest department has now deployed four teams on elephants to search for her. The tigress went missing from the western part of the Rajaji Tiger Reserve and has not been sighted or camera trapped in almost two months. The search operation started on Monday. Rajaji Tiger Reserve has only two tigresses in the western part and five tigers from Corbett are to be translocated to increase the population soon. Harak Singh Rawat, state forest minister, said, “I have been in talks with the chief wildlife warden and officials of the forest department to trace the tigress at the earliest. Teams have been deployed to find the tigress.” Also Read: To preserve alpine meadows in Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh, no more overnight stays, bonfiresOfficials said that a tigress was recently sighted in Barkot range of Dehradun forest division, but they are not sure if this is the same one. DK Singh, director of Rajaji Tiger Reserve, said that the tigress has not been camera trapped since March“We have deployed teams on elephants in Motichur, Kansaro, Ramgarh and Barkot forest ranges to search for the tigress. It is a matter of concern that the tigress has not been camera trapped since almost March,. Her pug marks and other signs were visible to staff while patrolling, but for almost two months, those signs have also not been sighted,” said Singh. He added that a few days ago, pug marks similar to that of the big cat were seen in the Barkot range in Dehradun forest division so the officials are coordinating with them in the search operation. During the last tiger estimation, it was found that the reserve had 34 resident tigers, including 32 in its eastern part, which is spread across 150 sq km area and two in the western part, which covers 570 sq km. The eastern and the western part of the reserve are divided by a busy traffic corridor making it difficult for the tigers to migrate between the two parts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-four-teams-deployed-to-search-for-tigress-missing-from-rajaji-tiger-reserve/story-5M4dJ8b2MbV7dz3QDJjttJ.html
24-11-2020||Pune||BJP leaders protest in Pune, state against inflated power bills||The Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) on Monday held an agitation in front of the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Limited (MSEDCL) office in Rasta peth, Pune to protest against the inflated electricity bills. The agitation was part of state-wide protests held by the BJP against MSEDCL and the state government on Monday demanding a roll back of the bills. BJP city unit president Jagdish Mulik led the agitations in the city. According to Mulik, MSEDCL sent excess bills to citizens and due to the pandemic, they did not physically visit for recording a reading of the electricity meter. “Later, they sent excessive bills. Instead of waving off the electricity bills, the MSEDCL has charged excessive bills. The state government should waive off the bills or BJP will do more aggressive agitations,” Mulik said. Former Maharashtra energy minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule and other BJP leaders burnt electricity bills at Mahadula in Koradi area of Nagpur for not giving relief to consumers who complained of inflated power bills during the pandemic.BJP leaders staged protests in Mumbai, Nagpur, Pune, Satara, Ahmednagar and others parts of the state and said the party will not keep quiet until the inflated electricity bills are “corrected”.Earlier this month, state Energy Minister Nitin Raut hinted at a major relief to the consumers facing the issue of inflated power bills, saying a Diwali gift was in the offing.However, a few days back, the minister said the government will not be able to provide any relaxation in the inflated electricity bills and consumers will have to make full payment of the bills.“BJP workers are burning electricity bills at 2,000 spots across the state. If the government does not wake up from its sleep and pursues disconnection of power lines of consumers, the party workers will not allow it to happen,” Bawankule said.Later, BJP’s Nagpur unit workers raised slogans against the government and burnt electricity bills at various squares in the city.Bawankule last week demanded that those who consume up to 300 units of electricity daily should get a waiver from bill payment for the March to June period.He also said that people have lost jobs (due to lockdown) and several electricity consumers have received inflated bills. The government should correct these bills, they had demanded.Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil, who led the protest at Karad in Satara district, said the party will not allow authorities to disconnect power supply of people in case bills are not paid.“We are burning inflated electricity bills as protest...the government should wake up soon or else, the anger will intensify,” Patil told reporters in Karad.He charged the state government with not waiving of consumption of power bills up to 100 units or not giving relief to people hit by Covid-19 despite talking about it.The BJP leader also claimed that a file pertaining to electricity bills correction was not sanctioned by deputy chief minister and finance minister Ajit Pawar.The state energy department is with Congress leader Nitin Raut, while Pawar belongs to the NCP.Suggesting there are differences between the NCP and Congress, Patil asked, “Why should the common people suffer just because the department is with the Congress?” “We will not keep quiet until the inflated bills are corrected...we will not let the linemen cut power supply of the people.”Patil in a tweet claimed ministries that are with the Shiv Sena get funds, but the portfolios that are with the Congress are not given funds, and it shows the Congress does not have any worth in the state government.“The BJP will continue to fight until the state government provides necessary relief to consumers,” he added.In Mumbai, BJP MLA Atul Bhatkhalkar led the party’s protest and he was detained along with other party men by police when they staged a protest in suburban Kandivali.Besides, former Maharashtra minister and BJP leader Ashish Shelar in a tweet accused the state government of looting people by issuing “exorbitant” bills.Shelar said the government is not giving any relief to the affected people, but is instead recovering bill dues “as money lenders”.“Are you running a government or are into money lending?” he asked with hashtag ‘MahaAghadiElectricityScam’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/bjp-leaders-protest-in-pune-state-against-inflated-power-bills/story-n9uLLGZjGahtNb0IEyi2AJ.html
24-11-2020||Pune||PMC plans to increase entry fees for public gardens||In a bid to curb down the unwanted crowding at gardens and parks in the city, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has now decided to increase the entry fee for public gardens across the city. The proposal was given by the PMC’s garden department earlier this year in the month of January, but due to the Covid-19 pandemic it was put on hold. While unlock has begun in the state, gardens and parks will be the points where crowding will happen. “There are 191 parks in Pune city which are under the PMC’s garden department and of them 21 parks require an entry fee. In some of the parks the entry fee is very nominal as 50 paise or Rs 1 and in other parks it is between Rs 5 to 10. So to increase the revenue of PMC we had given the proposal to hike these entry fees in the month of January. Later due to Covid-19, it was put on hold and now it will be taken up in the standing committee meeting. Once it gets the approval from the standing committee, the hike will be done,” said Ashok Ghorpade, PMC’s garden department superintendent. In Pune there are a large number of citizens who go for a morning walk and also during the evening time for a walk to the gardens. There are senior citizens and laughter groups in these gardens which gather together daily. To avoid such type of gatherings in this crisis situation, increasing the entry fees will somewhat keep a tap on crowding at the gardens. While there are mix reactions from citizens on this entry fee hike, Ramesh Damale, a regular morning walker said, “Due to Covid-19 pandemic, going to the park for a daily morning walk has stopped now, but earlier I used to go daily at 6am to walk in the garden nearby. I have seen many unwanted people creating nuisance and damaging the public property inside these gardens. So increasing the daily entry fee to the gardens is a good step, to reduce the number of people.” Shantanu Shetty, a resident said, “It is not right to increase the entry fees in the garden, we are already paying tax to the PMC from which these gardens are being maintained. Now again hiking the entry fees in the Covid situation is not right, people come to the garden for walking, exercise and for mental peace. By making them pay a high entry fee daily will reduce the number of people coming to garden.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-plans-to-increase-entry-fees-for-public-gardens/story-3z7sq2iP7gKVC36mtJ50HI.html
24-11-2020||Delhi||Air quality management commission should consider using bio-decomposer for stubble: Delhi environment minister||Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Tuesday urged the Centre’s Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) to consider using the bio-decomposer technology developed by the Pusa institute to tackle the problem of continued stubble burning in Haryana and Punjab. “A 15-member impact assessment committee has ascertained the effectiveness of the decomposer spray in turning stubble into compost and providing a solution to farmers in Delhi. The findings of the committee report have also been submitted to the CAQM on Monday,” said Rai at a press conference. Also Read: Covid-19 cases, positivity rate steadily decreasing, Kejriwal tells PM Modi at review meetHe added that the bio-decomposer turned 90% crop residue from 2,000 acres of land into manure within 15-20 days. Rai said that high pollution levels from stubble burning have also contributed to a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in the capital over the last 15 days. “The city’s pollution situation has been critical over the past several days. We need to find a permanent solution to this problem. We urge the CAQM to spray the bio-decomposer solution in the states of Haryana, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan considering its success in Delhi,” the minister said. He added that the solution is cost-effective and has been provided to farmers free of cost. “The central government gives a subsidy to the farmers through which they can buy machines, but the farmers are also supposed to pay a major amount to buy them. This is why the farmers avoid buying these machines and start stubble burning. If all the states follow the Delhi government’s model, then the stubble can be taken care of in half the price which the central government spends for this initiative,” said Rai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/air-quality-management-commission-should-consider-using-bio-decomposer-for-stubble-delhi-environment-minister/story-dYF3QVTVShifZDgDmpVD8J.html
24-11-2020||Delhi||Air quality management commission should consider use of bio-decomposer for stubble: Rai||Delhi Environment minister Gopal Rai on Tuesday urged the Centre’s newly-constituted air quality management commission to consider spraying the Pusa bio-decomposer in the neighbouring states of Punjab, Haryana, UP and Rajasthan to tackle the problem of stubble burning.During a press conference here, Rai said that a 15-member impact assessment committee has ascertained the effectiveness of the Pusa bio-decomposer solution in reducing stubble burning in the capital and it was submitted to the Environment Ministry’s Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas on Monday.He said the commission was informed that the bio-decomposer used in 2000 acre land in the capital turned 90-95 per cent crop residue into manure in 15-20 days.  “Stubble burning has contributed to escalation of COVID-19 cases in last 15 days as it has made Delhi’s air more poisonous. We need to find a permanent solution to this problem as we cannot put more lives in danger.Read more | Covid-19 cases, positivity rate steadily decreasing, Kejriwal tells PM Modi at review meet“We urge the air quality commission to get the Pusa biodecomposer sprayed in the states of Haryana, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan considering its success in Delhi,” Rai said.He said that government could do so at half the cost of providing subsidy to farmers.“In last many years, government has been spending money in providing subsidy to farmers to procure machines to cut crop residue. But farmers still have to spend a lot of money from their pocket which is why they resort to burning the crop residue.“In half the amount being spent on machines, government can get the biodecomposer sprayed in the neighbouring states without farmers having to spend anything,” he said.According to scientists at the Indian Agricultural Research Institute, Pusa, the solution can turn crop residue into manure in 15-20 days and can prevent stubble burning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/air-quality-management-commission-should-consider-use-of-bio-decomposer-for-stubble-rai/story-V5OKukj6XFFqpiK80NBELP.html
24-11-2020||Delhi||Why only spas not allowed to resume services, Delhi High Court asks AAP government||The Delhi High Court asked the AAP government on Tuesday as to what was so special about spas that they were not being allowed to open even though everything else like markets, gyms, restaurants, metro and buses was operational in the city.The query by Justice Navin Chawla came after the central government said it has issued an office memorandum on November 18 allowing reopening of spas, while Delhi government said it was not going to permit that in view of the third wave of Covid-19 infections in the city.Click here for live updates on Covid-19The counsel appearing for Delhi government told the court that he was given oral instructions that spas would not be reopened in view of prevailing conditions in the national capital and sought time to file an affidavit giving reasons for the same.To this the court asked, “Why? Why only spas? What is so special about spas? You have opened everything else. Look at markets, restaurants, metros, buses, all are open and running full time.” It directed the Delhi government to indicate, in its affidavit, what was special about spas that they were not being allowed to open, when everything else was being permitted.During the hearing, the central government told the court that while it “has cleared the decks” for reopening spas, the final decision with regard to the same has been left to the Delhi government.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageThe court, thereafter, listed the matter for hearing on December 4.It was hearing a plea moved by several persons who run spas which have been shut since the first lockdown was enforced in Delhi.In their plea, filed through advocates Rajeshwar Dagar and Himanshu Dagar, the spa owners have contended that they have been trained as professional therapists under the National Skills Development Mission launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.They have further contended that when a maximum number of businesses, like salons, gyms, restaurants and bars, have been granted permission to reopen and even Delhi Metro has been restarted, then why not the spas.The petitioners have claimed that the spas in other states are running with full safety measures, but are not permitted in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/why-only-spas-not-allowed-to-resume-services-delhi-high-court-asks-aap-government/story-7xH5rFEpitPdNUHuk87RWL.html
24-11-2020||Lucknow||Election Commission begins revision exercise across all UP constituencies||The Election Commission of India has started a process to enlist eligible voters across all constituencies in Uttar Pradesh from November 17 to the voting list while allowing individuals to rectify errors on their voter ID card or seek amendments.The poll body’s website also allows voters to enlist, remove or make rectifications to their details. The state’s chief electoral officer Ajay Kumar Shukla told Hindustan, HT’s sister publication, that individuals who want to make changes to their voter registration details can also fill these forms offline. People can get these forms from booth level and designated officers, voter registration centres across tehsils and the office of district electoral officer.The chief electoral officer also said that if voters want to check if their names are reflecting on the updated list, they can either visit the website www.ceouttarpradesh.nic.in by looking their name up in the search bar. They can also visit their respective polling stations between November 17 and December 15.If you are a resident of Uttar Pradesh this is how you can add, amend and check your name in the electoral roll online:1. Visit www.voterportal.eci.gov.in2. Login with your mobile number, email ID, voter ID number or use your Facebook, Gmail, Twitter or LinkedIn credentials.3. If you are above 18 or will reach the age of 18 soon, fill Form 6 to add your name to a voter’s list4. If you are a migrant and wish to register, fill out Form 6A5. Fill Form 7 if you intend to remove your name from the voting list6. Fill Form 8 to amend your voter ID.7. If you wish to change your place of residence, fill Form 8A8. Voters can also call 1950 in case of any queries||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/election-commission-begins-revision-exercise-across-all-up-constituencies/story-RepcrZNwObmrF5WqPEIObN.html
24-11-2020||Mumbai||Raided by ED, TOPSGRUP denies link with Shiv Sena MLA Sarnaik, party||The Enforcement Directorate, which raided 10 premises in Mumbai and Thane linked to Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik and his sons and premises of TOPSGRUP, suspects that companies linked to Pratap Sarnaik and his sons have pumped money into TOPSGRUP’s Rahul Nanda’s businesses and wants to investigate possible money laundering.TOPSGRUP group chairman and founder Rahul (Diwan) Nanda said, “This is ridiculous! Pratap is a very old friend and has not invested a single penny into my business or company ever! He or Sena has nothing to do with TOPS! This is absolutely absurd and this is again the mischief done by the management who have tried to mislead the ED by making these irresponsible and ridiculous allegations!!.”Nanda further said, “The ED had questioned us about our UK acquisition in 2009 which we have explained and given them evidences that everything was done 100% legally. They also questioned me about our trust in Mauritius, which again, we have answered and told them that this was created legally by lawyers and that there is ZERO money that is in the Mauritius trust. This was all the mischief played by Ramesh (Iyer), Amar (both top executives of his companies) and the coterie, who complained to the ED and have sent them on a wild goose chase. We have written and told them (authorities) that all fund transfers done in 2009 was done 100% legally with all requisite legal and RBI permissions.Also Read: Kalyan medics to strike work tomorrow after Shiv Sena corporator allegedly abuses doctorThe ED hasn’t yet clarified about the basis of their enforcement case information report (ECIR) which requires a predicate offense be first registered by any other law enforcement agency. Ramesh Iyer has already filed a complaint against Nanda and family alleging their involvement in irregularities worth Rs 175 crores. Iyer has denied all allegations levelled by Nanda. Nanda, too, has submitted a police complaint against Iyer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/raided-by-ed-topsgrup-denies-link-with-shiv-sena-mla-sarnaik-party/story-ttE7imzl7iFhGUeusKJQXL.html
24-11-2020||Business||Toyota halts operations at Karnataka plant again as union strike continues||Toyota Motor Corp again halted operations at its car plant in Karnataka from Monday, as the majority of members of its workers’ union continued a sit-in strike, the automaker said.Both the Toyota Kirloskar Motor (TKM) factories in the industrial hub of Bidadi, Karnataka, had declared a “lock out” on November 10 after the union went on strike, saying that their demand to withdraw the suspension of a worker was not met.The local state government’s labour department had prohibited the strike by the workmen, as well as the “legal lock out” declared by the management from November 19 and directed operations to resume, a spokesperson for the automaker’s India unit said on Tuesday.Even after the lock out was lifted by TKM, only a few team members have reported to work, the company said.Read more | Toyota halts output at Karnataka facility“For plant operations to run smoothly and effectively, a minimum workforce of 90% in each shift is required. In view of the current situation, it is not viable to carry on with manufacturing activity.”The disruption follows several months of a slump in sales, and comes at a time when vehicle deliveries to dealers are picking up in anticipation of strong demand during the November festive period in India.The country’s top car maker Maruti Suzuki India Ltd last month said sales between October and December were expected to be good due to demand for personal transport and big-ticket purchases during the festive season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/business-news/toyota-halts-operations-at-karnataka-plant-again-as-union-strike-continues/story-bME3HlZR50g4yNyhC3GmOI.html
24-11-2020||Mumbai||Formed task force for timely distribution of Covid-19 vaccine: Thackeray to Modi||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday said the state has formed a task force to ensure distribution of coronavirus vaccine and to execute the vaccination programme. At a virtual meeting of chief ministers with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Thackeray said the state is in touch with Adar Poonawalla, the CEO of Serum Institute of India, which is the India partner of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine for Covid-19.“...Thackeray informed PM Narendra Modi that he is in constant touch with Adar Poonawalla of Serum Institute and that the state has formed a task force to ensure timely distribution of vaccine and executing the vaccination programme,” the chief minister’s office said in a statement.Also Read | India’s new Covid-19 cases drop marginally; 37,975 new infections recorded in last 24 hoursThackeray attended the meeting along with his counterparts from Gujarat, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Haryana, Chhattisgarh, Kerala and Delhi. He is also going to attend a meeting with officials of Niti Aayog on the vaccination and its distribution programme.Officials said the Centre has directed states to prepare master plans for the coronavirus vaccination programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/task-force-formed-in-maharashtra-to-ensure-timely-distribution-of-covid-19-vaccine-thackeray-tells-modi/story-v9BWuA59vkkbScQfw7TQlJ.html
24-11-2020||Lifestyle||World Heritage Week: How heritage walkers took a detour||Intricate architecture of tombs, breakfast in the alleys of Old Delhi and endless stories about the Capital was something every Delhiwallah loved. But, Covid-19 and the guidelines made it difficult to organise heritage walks as before, forcing organisers to either take the virtual route or limit the number of participants. This World Heritage Week, that concludes on November 25, we decode how heritage walks have changed their path.  “Since the time pandemic started, everything is getting virtual, so are the walks and lectures on heritage.People are so keen that the number of lectures has increased. Earlier, we couldn’t invite people those were sitting far away, unless one arranged a flight ticket, but now with virtual means, they are also participating,’”says, heritage activist, Vikramjit Singh Rooprai, who feels conducting virtual sessions has helped bring people closer. Sahapedia, a non-profit organisation that organises heritage walks and festivals across India, has also gone digital. “We used to organise 20-30 heritage walks every month, but it wasn’t possible since the lockdown happened, so we started conducting digital walks. We organise online talks with our audiences, put up blogs and articles on heritage. For Cultural Heritage Week, we have put up trails on heritage that can be downloaded and watched,” says Ela Gupta from the organisation.However, DelhiByFoot Adventures is continuing with physical walks, albeit with smaller groups of people. . Ramit Mitra, co-founder, DelhiByFoot Adventures says, “We started conducting heritage walks from the second week of October. The way we organise it has changed and only 12 people are allowed to participate. All our batches are full and we are talking all the precautions and following guidelines, keeping safety as our priority.” And heritage lovers are keeping a close eye on the physical as well as virtual walks. Kanika Mittal who is pursuing Masters in History, says, “Virtual discussion on heritages and history is a blessing. I have participated in so many of them and they are absolutely amazing. And the participation of experts from various corners of the world makes it all the more worthy, and you don’t need to pay anything.”Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/world-heritage-week-how-heritage-walkers-took-a-detour-in-pandemic/story-jbOfl4JX0nSVDE1SN7SHuN.html
24-11-2020||Delhi||Woman arrested for opening fire at grocery shop in Delhi’s Chauhan Bangar||Delhi police have arrested a woman for opening fire at a grocery shop last Wednesday, in northeast Delhi’s Chauhan Bangar, to intimidate its owner with whom she had a heated argument earlier. Police said the woman had bought the pistols in Loni, Ghaziabad, specially for this purpose. A video of the incident that shows the burqa-clad woman firing from a pistol and abusing the shop owner was also widely shared on social media on Monday.Also read | Delhi’s air quality worsens, temperature to rise over next couple of daysPolice have identified the arrested woman as Nusrat, also a resident of Chauhan Bangar. On November 18, Jafrabad police station received a phone call reporting multiple gunshots being fired in lane number four of Chauhan Bangar area. The police team found four rounds fired at the shutter of a closed grocery shop.Enquiry revealed that the shop belonged to one Fahim who also lives in the same area. CCTV footage revealed that it was a burqa-clad woman who had fired those shots.“She was identified and arrested on Monday. She was booked for illegal possession of arms and under other relevant sections. During questioning, the woman told police that a man known to her, Shahrukh, had mortgaged his phone with the grocery shop owner who was not returning it. When she went to ask for the phone, Fahim refused and that led to a heated argument between the two,” said a senior police officer. Nusrat then arranged for a pistol from one Maksood, in Loni. “She said another aide, Irfan, helped her buy the weapon and even took her to Fahim’s shop in Chauhan Bangar on his bike, where she opened fire. Irfan then also helped her flee the spot. The woman said she handed over the pistol to Irfan after the incident,” said the officer. Deputy commissioner of police (northeast) Ved Prakash Surya said while Nusrat had been arrested, teams were on the lookout for Irfan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/woman-arrested-for-opening-fire-at-grocery-shop-in-delhi-s-chauhan-bangar/story-FCg1r3PIxb4FpNDBsJOt8I.html
24-11-2020||Chandigarh||Iqbal Singh Ahluwalia takes charge as Punjab RSS chief||Iqbal Singh Ahluwalia, 67, has been appointed chief of the Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh’s Punjab unit. Ahulwalia replaces RSS veteran Brijbhushan Bedi, 90, who remained sangh sanchalak (state head) for 26 years. The new office-bearers of the state unit of the RSS was announced on Sunday after their annual meeting in Chandigarh. The appointment of another Sikh face as the Punjab RSS head is significant in the backdrop SAD’s break-up with the BJP. Symbolically, it signals the saffron party’s strategy on Sikh outreach and make inroads in rural Punjab. In the tumultuous ‘80s, Daya Singh Singh Sodhi of Amritsar was the Sikh face of the RSS in Punjab followed by Rulda Singh of Patiala, who was assassinated by Sikh radicals.Ahluwalia, whose father was also an active member of the RSS, belongs to Sangrur and is a retired employee of the Food Corporation of India (FCI). Rajneesh Arora, a former vice-chancellor of Punjab Technical University (PTU), has been appointed prant sah sanghchalak or state vice-president. An IIT alumnus, Arora has been an active member of the RSS since his childhood and has worked with the Vanavasi Kalyan Ashram, a social arm of the sangh that serves the backward and socially downtrodden.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/iqbal-singh-ahluwalia-takes-charge-as-punjab-rss-chief/story-lQRseVlb44RYiNaP8oeGhO.html
24-11-2020||Mumbai||Central Railways ensures social distancing is maintained on Mumbai locals||The Central Railways is ensuring passengers keep alternate seats vacant on local trains in Mumbai to enforce social distancing amid a surge in Covid-19 cases. “Please Do Not Sit Here” instructions have been pasted on such seats this week.“This is an awareness campaign to maintain distancing at the railway stations and train compartments. Awareness regarding wearing of facial masks and sanitisation is also being increased,” said Shivaji Sutar, the chief public relations officer of the Central Railways.Also read | BMC to screen passengers arriving in MumbaiLocal train services resumed for people involved in essential service care on July 15. Specially-abled, cancer patients, lawyers, and women are also now allowed to travel by local trains.The Central Railways operates 1,580 local train services daily and the Western Railway 1,201 in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/central-railways-ensures-social-distancing-is-maintained-on-mumbai-locals/story-dM14jvM3oWGw4yEB5atoxN.html
24-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai international airport sees surge in traffic from West Asia, Europe||The international passenger traffic at Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) from West Asia has increased by 63% since June and that from Europe by 18% and North America by 10% as of October 31. The traffic is expected to further increase this month.“While the airport is seeing maximum air passenger traffic from the Middle East [West Asia], Europe and North America respectively, some air traffic is also being seen from Africa. However, currently, the least traffic is being witnessed from the Asia Pacific,” said a CSMIA spokesperson. Africa contributed to 7%, while Asia Pacific 2% of the total air traffic.Also read | BMC to screen passengers arriving in MumbaiA higher movement of passengers has been seen on the Mumbai-Dubai route, followed by Mumbai-Sharjah and Mumbai-Abu Dhabi since the commencement of India’s air bubble agreement with the UAE.As part of the air bubble agreement, over 1,22,960 passengers flew from Mumbai to the UAE from June to October. Etihad Airways, Emirates, and Air Arabia carried a bulk of the passengers to Abu Dhabi, Dubai, and Sharjah.As many as 1,08,250 passengers travelled on the Mumbai-Dubai route with 751 flights, followed by Sharjah (8,715 passengers on 91 flights) and Abu Dhabi (5,990 passengers and 130 flights).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-international-airport-sees-surge-in-traffic-from-west-asia-europe/story-7ZI6tyJL3XRIvPqJVgzkEI.html
24-11-2020||Chandigarh||First passenger train reaches Amritsar after diversion as defiant farmers refuse to lift blockade||With a farmer faction refusing to lift the rail blockade in Amritsar district, the Golden Temple Mail, the first passenger train after resumption of services, had to be diverted via Tarn Taran station early on Tuesday. The train, which was scheduled to reach at 5.45am, arrived at 8.45am. The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) remained defiant and did not lift the protest from Jandiala Guru railway station, forcing the authorities to divert the train coming from Mumbai Central. It was diverted from Beas and reached Amritsar junction via Tarn Taran. The KMSC holds sway in the Majha region and has distanced itself from the decision of 30 farmer unions that met Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday and agreed to allow the movement of both passenger and goods trains in the state for 15 days. The KMSC is adamant that it will allow only goods trains to ply until the Centre revokes the three farm laws introduced to liberalise the farm sector. District administration and police officials met KMSC leaders in Amritsar on Monday night, urging them to allow passenger trains but in vain. The police did not use force to disperse the protesters. Around 4am, Amritsar deputy commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira and Amritsar (rural) SSP Dhruv Dahyia reached the protest site and tried to persuade the activists to clear the track, but failed again. Of the 2,500 passengers who boarded the train, 427 were to disembark at Amritsar. First, the district administration planned to arrange buses to ferry the passengers from Beas railway station to Amritsar. Later, the officers along with the railways staff decided to divert its route via Goindwal Sahib and Tarn Taran. The train reached Amritsar at 8.45am on Tuesday. Activists of the KMSC, which is spearheading the rail roko protest at Jandiala Guru on the key Amritsar-Delhi rail route, were sitting outside the station but announced that they would again sit on the tracks to stop any passenger train.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/first-passenger-train-reaches-amritsar-after-diversion-as-defiant-farmers-refuse-to-lift-blockade/story-TjVx7FKI4XHF0WCp6ypozO.html
24-11-2020||Mumbai||ED raids Shiv Sena lawmaker Pratap Sarnaik’s premises||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) raided premises linked to Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik in Maharashtra on Tuesday in connection with a money-laundering case, official sources said.They said the searches are being conducted by the central agency at 10 locations linked to Sarnaik in Thane and Mumbai under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA).“The searches are being conducted on the Tops group (a company in the business of providing security) promoters and related people, including some politicians,” an official source said.Sarnaik represents the Ovala-Maijwada constituency in the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly. PTI NES RC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ed-raids-shiv-sena-lawmaker-pratap-sarnaik-s-premises/story-fBbSj8mnBCoAIWeAf7e23M.html
24-11-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Lawyer moves Bombay HC against Epidemic Diseases Act||A lawyer has moved the Bombay high court challenging the constitutional validity of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, and sought a direction to forthwith stop its enforcement. The Supreme Court last week refused to entertain Harshal Mirashi’s petition and asked him to approach the high court. Mirashi has also filed an application for an interim order to restrain the Maharashtra government from re-imposing a Covid-19 lockdown.Mirashi believes Covid-19 is nothing more that cough and cold that has been blown out of proportion by “certain elements” to make undue profit by instilling fear in the people’s minds.He is against the forced use of mask and quarantine, which he believes amounts to deprivation of liberty of citizens. Mirashi calls quarantine a breach of the fundamental rights that causes psychological issues.Also read | Maharashtra: BMC to screen passengers arriving in MumbaiHe has contended that the 1897 law infringes on fundamental rights guaranteed in the Constitution. Mirashi has blamed the erratic enforcement of the Epidemic Diseases Act for threating the rights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-lawyer-moves-bombay-hc-against-epidemic-diseases-act/story-VS24UXaXeWTdSeq5VQL4VN.html
24-11-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi government orders equipment for new ICU beds being added this week||The Delhi government has placed an order for immediate procurement of 1,200 Bilevel Positive Airway Pressure (BiPAP) machines for new Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds being added to hospitals across the national capital this week in the view of a surge in Covid-19 cases and deaths, an official said.The machines, which help in administering high-flow oxygen to patients and are required to operationalise the ICU beds, are being procured from the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, who met Union home minister Amit Shah last week, has said the Centre has assured help to the Delhi government in procuring the machines.Around 500 ICU beds have been added to Delhi’s hospitals since Friday. More are likely to be added this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-delhi-government-orders-equipment-for-new-icu-beds-being-added-this-week/story-LvXOBu94bL2z8qmQKLiAQI.html
24-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Martyr’s widow commissioned into Army; set to fulfil his dream of serving nation||Kanika Rane, 30, the widow of Major Kaustubh Rane who laid down his life fighting terrorists in Kashmir in August 2018, has been commissioned into the Army after completing a 49-week course at the Chennai’s Officers Training Academy. She cleared the Service Selection Board exam in 2019 to enrol for the course that ended on Saturday.“I am proud of my daughter-in-law,” said Jyoti Rane, the mother of Major Rane. Kanika Rane’s father-in-law, Prakash Rane, said they encouraged her despite the tragedy. He said her training was scheduled to be completed in September but it got delayed due to the Covid -19 pandemic.“We are happy that my daughter-in-law will fulfil her husband’s dream and serve the nation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-martyr-s-widow-commissioned-into-army-set-to-fulfil-his-dream-of-serving-nation/story-D39ClxqOY5oPSXt72EReVJ.html
24-11-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers protesting farm laws in Amritsar block Golden Temple Mail||Farmers at the Jandiala Guru railway station in Punjab’s Amritsar on Tuesday continued with their rail blockade on Tuesday to protest the farm bills passed during the monsoon session of Parliament in September. They stopped the Golden Temple Mail, which operates from Mumbai Central to Amritsar, at the Beas railway station. The train was diverted from Beas and it arrived in Amritsar via Taran Taran.“We are ready to give our life if the central government does not scrap these laws, which are against farmers,” Satnam Singh Pannu, the state president of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, told ANI.Amritsar’s district collector Gurpreet Singh Khaira urged the farmers to halt their protests in order to allow passenger trains to operate but farmers did not relent to these requests. “It will be very helpful for the administration if you clear the blockade. We know your grievances. The people who are coming via trains are also the people of Punjab, you must think of them and should stop the blockade,” Khaira told farmers, according to ANI.Farmers were adamant that they shall not allow passenger trains to operate until the farm bills were not withdrawn. They have blocked railway tracks in the state since September protesting the central government’s farm bill passage. They are protesting against the newly-passed laws under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee.Farmers’ organisations, the Punjab government and the ministry of railways have had several discussions on this issue. The Indian Railways also said that it has more than Rs 2,000 crore due to the agitations. On Monday, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh also expressed concern about the farmers’ refusal to allow passenger trains.The Western Railway had restored 11 trains on Monday. These trains were either cancelled or short-terminated or short-originated, according to news agency ANI.Several farmers’ organisations have opposed the passage of three agriculture laws -- the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farmers-protesting-farm-laws-in-amritsar-block-golden-temple-mail/story-Naw0lbq4S2wlp5HlHyE7SP.html
24-11-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University V-C gives cold shoulder to agitating syndics: Meeting halls closed, members leave without assurance||The members of Panjab University syndicate on Monday could not hold a meeting as the senate hall and syndicate room of the varsity were closed.The members had called a meeting on their own in a show of protest against vice-chancellor Raj Kumar, who is the chairman of the syndicate and has powers to convene meetings. At least 10 members had come to attend the meeting.Later, the members met the V-C at his office and expressed resentment over the treatment meted out to them. Heated arguments were reportedly exchanged. Syndics also urged the V-C to call the meeting of the body to clear pending issues.The development comes days after a protest rally was organised on the campus demanding immediate conducting of senate polls. On Monday, the syndicate members left the V-C office without any assurances on their demands. Although the V-C had called an emergency meeting of the syndicate twice in September, the members refused to attend the same and instead demanded that a physical meeting be held.As the term of the PU senate ended on October 31, syndicate remains the highest body of the university. Ever since the senate elections of PU were postponed on August 15, the syndicate members have been pressing the V-C to call a meeting and report the matter to the body.Syndicate member Rabindra Nath Sharma said, “These things have never happened in the history of this university. The V-C does not bother about the sanctity and authority of the executive body of PU.”“It is shameful that the elected representatives are regularly requesting the vice-chancellor to call a meeting, and he simply gives excuses,” said syndicate member HS Dua.While speaking to the syndicate members, the V-C said, “The meeting may be called when the situation improves.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-v-c-gives-cold-shoulder-to-agitating-syndics-meeting-halls-closed-members-leave-without-assurance/story-RqKxU33CEMtUsiz5nuypRP.html
24-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Housing Board’s Affordable Rental Housing Complex Scheme: Second draw for 448 flats tomorrow||The second draw for allotments of flats to eligible applicants under the Affordable Rental Housing Complex (ARHC) Scheme will be made through computerised draws for 448 flats on November 25 at 11am.The Chandigarh administration has decided to relocate the residents of Prefab shelters in Sectors 52 and 56 to EWS flats at Maloya-I.Updated lists of the occupants of Prefab shelters, after considering the objections, has been uploaded on the official website of the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB). A camp was organised to receive applications for allotment of flats at Maloya-I under the ARHC scheme.The first computerised draw was held on November 10 for allotment of 352 flats; physical possession of these flats was handed over during the last week. Demolition of about 275 Prefab shelters at Sector 56 has already been completed and demolition of about 350 Prefab shelters at Sector 52 is underway, to be completed within this week, said a CHB official.List of the occupants who will be included in the draw on November 25 has been uploaded on the website of the CHB. The 380 occupants relate to Prefab shelters at Sector 52 while the remaining 68 occupants relate to Sector 56. There are 15 applicants who have submitted copies of disability certificates and they will be considered for allotment of flat on the ground floor.As per the tentative schedule, the subsequent draws will be held on December 2 and 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-housing-board-s-affordable-rental-housing-complex-scheme-second-draw-for-448-flats-tomorrow/story-FO3nn4cvrr5dx8vQIZE9sN.html
24-11-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University missing heritage furniture: Two held, 15 chairs recovered||The crime branch of Chandigarh Police have arrested two more persons, including a woman, involved in the theft of heritage furniture from Panjab University, and have also recovered 15 more chairs.The accused were identified as Usha, alias Sweety, 42, of Bhaskar Colony, Sector 25, and Naresh Mittal, 36, of Sector 41.The duo was arrested on the disclosure of Sarfaraj, a carpenter from Baltana, who was arrested on November 20. He was produced before a court and his remand was extended by two days. Out of 48 stolen chairs, police have recovered 15 more in addition to the 20 recovered following Sarfaraj’s arrest.Both Usha and Mittal were arrested from Sector 25/38 light-point. Of the 15 chairs recovered, five were found from Usha’s house. Police said Usha was a habitual offender and had been previously arrested in theft cases. The other 10 heritage chairs were recovered on Mittal’s disclosure from a godown in Dhanas.Manjit Singh, superintendent of the department of sociology, Panjab University, had reported that some unknown persons had stolen 48 heritage chairs from the varsity between November 1 and 3.The missing furniture included 36 chairs from the department’s seminar hall at the ground floor, 10 chairs from the second floor hall and two chairs from the superintendent’s office. A case under Section 380 (theft in dwelling house) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the police station in Sector 11..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-missing-heritage-furniture-two-held-15-chairs-recovered/story-btDquFwuRKS091YHoQ319J.html
24-11-2020||City||Fresh snowfall in Kashmir, Himachal sends chill down to Punjab, Haryana||The upper reaches of Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh continued to receive fresh snowfall on Tuesday, leading to the mercury dipping further in the plains of Punjab and Haryana. The valley has been getting rain since Sunday, while the Drass-Sonmarg axis and parts of the Pir Panjal Range have got a fresh spell of snow. Light snowfall was recorded in some parts of the plains in north Kashmir, too. The weather department in Srinagar said, “At present, it’s snowing in the hill areas of Jammu and Kashmir and raining in the Jammu region. The sky is overcast in Leh, Kargil and Drass. Intermittent light to moderate snow with isolated heavy snowfall is forecast in the higher reaches till November 25 afternoon.” The weather would clear up from November 26. Tourist spots of Gulmarg, Pahalgam and Sonmarg received fresh snowfall on Tuesday. Gulmarg got about one foot of snow. The administration has already closed Mughal Road after fresh snowfall in Shopian. The J&K disaster management department has warned of avalanches in the upper reaches of Kashmir. Gulmarg recorded a low of minus 2.1 degrees Celsius on Monday night, while Srinagar recorded a high of 2.7 degrees Celsius and a minimum of 0.6 degrees Celsius. YELLOW WARNING IN HIMACHAL FOR NOV 25 The maximum temperatures decreased by three to four degrees in Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday with fresh snowfall in the higher hills and rainfall in the middle hills. State meteorological department director Manmohan Singh said that snowfall and rainfall in isolated places of the state is likely to continue till Thursday. Yellow warning has been issued for seven districts of Kinnaur, Lahaul-Spiti, Shimla, Mandi, Chamba, Kangra and Kullu for November 25 due to the forecast of heavy snowfall and rainfall in isolated places of these districts. The weather will clear up from November 27. The minimum temperature in Shimla was 7.1°C, while Kufri, 14km from Shimla, recorded a low of 3.6°C. Tourist destinations of Manali and Dharamshala were cold with a minimum of 6.2°C, while Dalhousie recorded 3.8°C. The minimum temperatures in Solan was 5°C, Bilaspur 7°C, Hamirpur 7.2°C, Una 9°C and Nahan 11.3°C. Kalpa shivered at minus 1.4°C, while Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district was the coldest place in the state, recording a low of minus 6.4°C. HISAR RECORDS 5.9°C, CHANDIGARH 9.6°C The temperatures across the plains of Punjab and Haryana continued to remain below normal. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast cloudy weather in the region on Tuesday and light rain later in the week. In Haryana, the minimum temperature fell to 5.9 degrees in Hisar. The temperature remained low in Narnaul at 6 degrees and in Bhiwani at 8.3 degrees. In Punjab, the temperature was comparatively higher with the minimum going up to 11 degrees in Amritsar even as it was at 5 to 6 degrees below normal over the past few days. In Patiala and Ludhiana, the minimum temperature was 9.5 and 10.7 degrees, respectively. Chandigarh registered a low of 9.6 degrees Celsius. Cloudy weather is expected to continue so the minimum temperature is likely to stay on the higher side. Due to the western disturbance, light rain is expected in the region from Thursday onwards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fresh-snowfall-in-kashmir-himachal-sends-chill-down-to-punjab-haryana/story-3R3dWic9HII5vdfMffQj4N.html
24-11-2020||Patna||17th Bihar Assembly’s inaugural session begins with members taking oath||The inaugural session of 17th Bihar Assembly commenced on Monday with 198 members being administered the oath by Protem Speaker Jitan Ram Manjhi.Eight ministers were among those who were administered the oath at a ceremony conducted at the central hall of the legislature building with strict adherence to Covid-19 norms, Assembly Secretary Raj Kumar Singh told PTI.According to the schedule read out by Manjhi, the newly elected 243 members were to be sworn in on the first two days of the session, on November 23 and 24.Members representing constituency numbers 1 to 100 would be administerd oath during the first half of Monday, from 11 am to 1 pm, and those representing constituency numbers 101 to 200, including RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav, during the second half, from 2 pm to 4 pm.The rest will be administered the oath of office on Tuesday, he said.Deputy chief ministers and BJP members Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi were the first to take oath.Ministers who were administered oath included Vijay Kumar Choudhary, Bijendra Prasad Yadav, Sheela Kumari, Amarendra Pratap Singh, Rampreet Paswan, Ram Surat Kumar.Jivesh Kumar was not present in the House when his name was called out.Chief minister Nitish Kumar, who is a member of legislative council, was present during the ceremony.Mewalal Chaudhury, whose appointment to the post of a minister had triggered controversy on account of a corruption taint following which he tendered his resignation on November 19, also took oath as an MLA.Prominent among those who took oath on the first day included senior BJP leader Nand Kishore Yadav, RJD leader Tej Pratap Yadav, BJP MLAs Arun Kumar Sinha, Gyanendra Singh Gyanu, JD(U) member and former DGP (Home Guards and Fire Services) Sunil Kumar, RJD members Awadh Bihari Choudhary and Lalit Kumar Yadav.Prominent members who took oath in Maithili included BJP members Vinod Narayan Jha, Nitish Mishra, Haribhushan Thakur, RJD MLA Samir Kumar Mahaseth, JD(U) member Sudhanshu Shekhar, while RJD member from Sheohar Chetan Anand, son of don-turned-politician Anand Mohan Singh, another RJD member Yusuf Salahuddin, and CPI(ML) MLA Mahboob Alam stuck to English.Congress member from Kadwa Shakeel Ahmad Khan, BJP member from Sitamarhi Mithilesh Kumar, and JD(U) MLA Ratnesh Sada took oath in Sanskrit.AIMIM members Shahnawaz and Akhtarul Iman were administered oath in Urdu but a controversy erupted when Iman insisted that the draft for the oath in Urdu should have “Bharat”, as it is in the Constitution, instead of “Hindustan”.The chair, however, permitted him to use “Bharat”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/17th-bihar-assembly-s-inaugural-session-begins-with-members-taking-oath/story-9Sa7uPNZZpVRW7jpvTpJuO.html
24-11-2020||Kolkata||Food for Shah’s lunch with tribal family was prepared by Brahmin cook: Mamata Banerjee||Terming Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s recent visit to a tribal family in West Bengal’s Bankura, a “show-off”, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday alleged that the lunch he had there was prepared somewhere else by a “Brahmin cook”.Also alleging that the home minister didn’t even know how tribal freedom fighter Birsa Munda looked like as he garlanded a wrong statue of him there, the chief minister announced that the state government would declare holiday on Munda’s birth anniversary on November 15.Addressing a state government event in Khatra area of tribal-dominated Bankura district, Banerjee hit out at Shah, saying a few days ago he visited Bengal for show-off. “Dikhane ke liye kuch din pahle mannaniya grih mantri Amit Shah aaye the. Unhone ek Dalit familly ke yahan khana khaya tha (Shan came here and had lunch at a Dalit home for show-off),” she said in Hindi, alleging “the food was brought from outside and cooked by a Brahmin.” Also Watch | How RSS adjusted to Vajpayee-Kaul partnership | On The Record“There were visuals that the Dalit family was cutting cabbage and coriander, but none of these was seen (on his plate). He had eaten Basmati rice, posta bora (poppy seed fritters),” she said, adding after having lunch he went away. “There was a child suffering from Thalassemia or some disease whom he didn’t meet”.During a two-day visit to West Bengal earlier this month, Shah met the family in Chaturthi village of Bankura and had food with them on November 5.Banerjee added that Shah even garlanded a statue of a hunter, thinking it to be that of tribal freedom fight fighter Munda.“Shah had garlanded a statue thinking it to be of Birsa Munda... Later, it was known that it was of a hunter. But my Ma, Mati, Manus (TMC slogan) workers will ensure that Birsa Munda’s statute is installed here. In fact, the state government will announce holiday on Birsa Munda’s anniversary from next year. It will be updated in the state’s holiday list,” she said.Also accusing the BJP of defaming her Trinamool Congress (TMC) for one per cent wrong people, she said 99 per cent of them are good. “They defame us for just one per cent wrong men in TMC that too those who came from the CPI(M).”She also took on the Centre for the amendment to the Essential Commodities Act, from which potatoes and onions have been excluded. Referring to the Centre as “aaloo ki sarkar (Government of potatoes), Banerjee alleged that it is ensuring that “you can’t even eat a meal of rice and potatoes”. But, she said, the state government would extend the free foodgrain scheme beyond June 2021, earlier announced, as she was confident of “forming the government after next Assembly polls”.She also asked the people not to vote for the BJP as the central government was giving the financial benefits to the poor from their money only. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/food-for-shah-s-lunch-with-tribal-family-was-prepared-by-brahmin-cook-mamata-banerjee/story-VlEmqXtiRiyJH1xw5ynoVL.html
24-11-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: The Nehru Park connection||Pathways go up and down the many slopes. Distractions include flowers and fountains, lovers and joggers, chai wallas and chips sellers. Nehru Park runs along a tiny patch of the Aravali range of hills, so ancient that they are even older than the Himalayas. No surprises than the landscape is punctuated with rocks, some of which must be thousands and thousands of years old.So forty years is absolutely nothing in time for this park. Yet that short period does count for something in the case of Bhag Bahri Malhotra. In her late 80s, the lady has been enjoying morning walks in this central Delhi garden for those many years. She would come with her husband, and continued to do after he passed away in 2016. “In Nehru Park, my heart feels lighter,” she says, talking on WhatsApp video from the isolation of her residence in Safdarjung Enclave. Because the coronavirus infection can be fatal to the elderly, her son and daughter-in-law are extremely cautious about her outing, and Ms Malhota hasn’t been visiting her beloved hangout since the pandemic hit our part of the world. She’s always happy to dwell upon her extensive private history with the park, though.“Bahri Saab (her husband) and I would walk every morning in the park from 7 to 8,” she recalls. Ms Malhotra affectionately peppers each sentence with “bacche”, or child. Over those garden strolls, she says, she and her husband had gradually befriended other park lovers who would be there around the same time. “We had a whole group... after our walks, we would all sit down on the grass to have chai and gupshup (small talk), and we would also celebrate our anniversaries and birthdays.” Sometimes, they all would have an impromptu breakfast of kachori, halwa and aloo subzi ordered from Chandni Chowk.The ritual lasted for years until “we grew old.... some of us left for Ishwar (God)...”Ms Malhorta would still go, accompanied by her longtime attendant, Ravi, who would walk by her side with a bottle of water. “All the gardeners know me. They give me izzat (respect).”Here she pauses, before admitting that “ I no longer see purane log (old timers) in the park... but sometimes I see children of old friends who have now grown up.”A day after this chat, Ms Malhotra texted, saying she finally went for a walk in Nehru Park — the first one since the lockdown started, in March. She also Whatsapped an earlier picture of her in the garden, posing with a smile and flowers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-nehru-park-connection/story-DVqNTJeArgO5YoR3kI6SxH.html
24-11-2020||City||Punjab Police file revision plea seeking open-ended arrest warrant against gangster in 2014 weapon smuggling case||The Punjab Police’s organised crime control unit (OCCU) has filed a revision petition seeking open-ended non-bailable arrest warrant against gangster Ranjit Singh Dupla, the main accused in the 2014 inter-state illegal foreign-made weapons smuggling case. An open-ended non-bailable warrant, which does not have a time limit for execution, would help the OCCU get red-corner notice (RCN) issued by Interpol against Dupla who is believed to be in the United States. On October 29, the court of judicial magistrate Suresh Kumar had dismissed the OCCU’s plea demanding open-ended non-bailable arrest warrants against Dupla. Now, the OCCU has filed a review petition in the court of additional sessions judge Harbans Singh Lekhi who has summoned the lower court records on the next hearing on December 1. Dupla had fled the country soon after he got bail in the case. He was facing more than 18 criminal cases, including kidnapping, attempt to murder, robbery, snatching, and contract killing. He was a declared proclaimed offender by a Faridkot court in December 2017. The red corner notices are issued by the Interpol on the request of a member country to prohibit the movement and subsequent hand over an accused from across the globe. In October 2014, a case was registered against Dupla and others for illegal trafficking of foreign-made weapons and indulging in supply of weapons to gangsters and civilians by forging sale bills. Three accused were arrested on October 21, 2014, which led to the recovery of weapons from different individuals, including some gun house owners. In 2015, the police filed two chargesheets in the court against eight accused, including Dupla, and charges were framed against them in that year only. In August this year, the OCCU arrested Satish Kumar, gun house owner and Moga-based car dealer Pankaj Bansal for buying illegal weapons and forging sales bills. The unit had also named Ferozepur’s Bhupinder Singh, New Delhi-based Amit Goyal and Rohit Chhabra of Kotkapura as accused in the FIR. It added Section 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and Section 16 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in the FIR later. On October 20, the OCCU filed a chargesheet against Bansal and Satish. In 2015, the police had given a clean chit to six persons, including Satish and Bansal, claiming that Dupla and others passed the weapons as genuine in connivance with the arms dealers and the buyers did not know the genuineness of the weapons. Now, the OCCU claims they purchased the illegal weapons using forged documents knowingly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-police-file-revision-plea-seeking-open-ended-arrest-warrant-against-gangster-in-2014-weapon-smuggling-case/story-LL49fLpF6Zq5uy6BW5XPdJ.html
24-11-2020||City||7 Sangrur pharmacy colleges indulged in mass copying, says probe report||Students of seven pharmacy colleges in Sangrur district who appeared in examination in September and October indulged in mass copying, a probe report by the state technical education department has found. The department will issue within a week show-cause notices to these colleges as why their affiliation should not be cancelled. Besides, a three-member committee was formed on Monday to look into their response. The institutions are Vinayaka College of Pharmacy, Lehragaga; Arya Bhatta Institute of Pharmacy, Sangrur; Modern College of Pharmacy, Vidya Sagar Paramedica Institute, Leharagaga; Maharaja Aggarsain Institute of Pharmacy, Lehargaga; Lord Krishna College of Pharmacy, Lehragaga; and Krishna College of Pharmacy Lehragaga.Technical education minister Charanjit Singh Channi said anybody found indulged in a cheating scam will not be spared and strict action will be taken against the institutes concerned. “Orders have also been issued to charge-sheet Government Polytechnic College Bareta, principal Navneet Walia, who was flying squad in-charge, and section officer Anil Kumar,” a press statement stated. The matter came to light after a video of copying in the examination centres went viral on social media. Principal secretary (technical education) Anurag Verma said a detailed report was sought from secretary (technical education and industrial training board) and the principal of Government Polytechnic College (Girls), Patiala, where papers of the seven colleges were sent for evaluation.“During investigation, it was found that the answer sheets of nearly all the students who appeared in the offline examination matched verbatim. Also, sheets of some students who appeared in the online examination also matched to some extent,” Verma added. The technical education board officials have been directed to issue show-cause notices to the seven colleges in a week to cancel their affiliation. The reply will be examined by the director (technical education and industrial training department), the secretary (technical education board) and the Punjab state technical education board (convener) registrar, he said.“The examination held at these colleges will also be cancelled. Directions have been issued to hold reexamination of the students. During the reexamination, the invigilating staff will be deputed from government ITIs and examination centres will also be set up at government polytechnic colleges/ITIs. CCTV cameras will be installed in examination centres,” Verma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/7-sangrur-pharmacy-colleges-indulged-in-mass-copying-says-probe-report/story-hCIaDv1dkX5bSve17tEDOL.html
24-11-2020||Chandigarh||Shipping of grains out of Punjab godowns starts today||With the railways resuming freight and passenger services in Punjab after nearly a two-month hiatus, the authorities concerned will start shipping foodgrains in goods trains from the godowns to other states. At least 35 rakes (freight trains) are likely to reach various storage points to transport at least 1 lakh tonne wheat and paddy on the first day, it is learnt. The railway had board imposed restrictions on the movement of goods trains in the state on October 7, after the farmers protesting against the Central agriculture laws blocked the passenger trains. The railways, however, insisted on running both passengers and freight trains simultaneously. In a meeting with Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday, the majority of farmer unions agreed to allow goods trains as well. “We hope to get 31 rakes of rice and 4 of wheat tomorrow, requirement of which was placed today. These rakes will be loaded and dispatched on Tuesday. We hope that things will fall in place as the pile-up of grains will be reduced. The state department is in touch with the Container Corporation of India, a subsidiary of the railways, for the movement of the grains,” said director (food and civil supplies) Anindita Mitra. 35 lakh tonnes held up due to restrictions Due to the restrictions on freight trains, the state could not ship at least 35 lakh tonne grains — 19 lakh tonne rice and 16 lakh tonne wheat — to other states. Punjab could have recouped about Rs 10,000 crore against the cash credit limit (CCL) received in the past for the procurement of grains if the stock had been delivered. The state government was forced to pay a monthly interest of Rs 75 crore for holding the stock. Over 190 lakh tonne rice and wheat is stored in the state’s godowns. This includes 110 lakh tonne wheat of four state agencies and 25 lakh tonne of the Food Corporation of India (FCI). Another 55 lakh tonne rice of FCI is also in the godowns. 3 goods trains to bring gunny bags Nearly 90,000 bales of gunny bags are expected to reach the state by Tuesday. Each bale comprises 500 gunny bags. One rake each will reach the dry ports at Dappar, Ahmedgarh and Phillaur for unloading, Mitra said. The state agriculture department has asked for at least 100 rakes of urea from manufacturing companies such as Chambal Fertilizers, IPL, Kribhco and NFL. “We are falling short of 5 lakh tonne of urea as we have a stock of 3 lakh tonne available. The agriculture department has asked the urea manufacturing companies to increase the supply,” said chief inspector fertiliser Gurjeet Singh Brar. “Over 60% wheat crop has already been sown. Once the fertiliser stocks arrive, our role is to ensure an early distribution to the agricultural societies and farmer groups,” he added. 1 coal rake arrives at Talwandi Sabo Plant A rake of coal reached the Vedanta-owned thermal power plant in Talwandi Sabo on Monday. “We would get one 640 megawatt unit in the thermal plant synchronised by Tuesday,” said a director-level functionary of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL). Coal supply for other thermal plants is expected to arrive by Tuesday, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/shipping-of-grains-out-of-punjab-godowns-starts-today/story-d8mUKYtRGltOsW2Z6AtrmM.html
24-11-2020||City||60-year-old labourer found dead in Yamunanagar||A 60-year-old labourer from Sandhala village under the jurisdiction of Jathlana police was found dead in mysterious circumstances on Monday, making it the third murder case reported within a week. The victim, Jaipal, father of two sons and a daughter, used to live separately. His brother Dharampal said, “On Sunday evening, we were sitting at my house when Suresh, a local, came to ask about our well-being and left after a few minutes. After a couple of hours, Jaipal also left towards Suresh’s house and on Monday morning, his body was found.” The police said that an FIR was registered under sections 302 and 34 of the IPC at Jathlana police station against two persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/60-year-old-labourer-found-dead-in-yamunanagar/story-JGn47x42dDfmMKfJ6xiMDN.html
24-11-2020||Chandigarh||Three caught with 74,400 banned tablets in Karnal||Haryana Police have arrested three persons and seized 74,400 banned tablets in Karnal district in the past three days.While one accused was caught with 1,500 tablets/capsules, the other two suspects were apprehended with 73,200 prohibited medicines, a police spokesperson said on Monday.Gurvinder Singh was nabbed on November 20 from Sonkara village with 900 tramadol capsules and 600 alprazolam tablets.During his three-day police remand, he disclosed that he had bought the intoxicating tablets from a supplier Ashwani Kumar, who was also arrested on November 22.The police said that Ashwani admitted that he was supplying these prohibited drugs after taking delivery from Sahil Kundra of New Shivaji Colony, Gapu Wala Bagh. For this, he used to charge commission of ₹100 per box. He was also arrested after the recovery of 39,600 tramadol capsules and 33,600 alprazolam tablets.A case under sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act was registered against the accused and further investigation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-caught-with-74-400-banned-tablets-in-karnal/story-vL4oxVQShNoKVaKU6JeJ1I.html
24-11-2020||City||Former councillor’s suicide: Panipat SP among three cops booked||Panipat superintendent of police (SP), a sub-inspector and an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) have been booked on the charges of abetting suicide of former councillor Harish Sharma. The fresh first information report (FIR) was registered on the complaint of Harish’s daughter Anjali Sharma, a day after the former councillor’s body was recovered from a canal in Sonepat and his family members and supporters blocked the NH-44. In the police complaint, Anjali alleged that her father was reeling under depression for the past few days after the Panipat police booked him, her and eight others for allegedly selling crackers and assaulting cops on Diwali night.She also alleged that the police were mounting pressure for his arrest, which forced him to commit suicide.Harish’s body was fished out of Delhi parallel canal near Khubru village in Sonepat district on Sunday, four days after he jumped into it. On Monday, a case as registered against Panipat SP, then tehsil camp police post in-charge and ASI Mahavir Singh under sections 306 (abetment to suicide) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Model Town police station in Panipat.A three-member police team headed by ADGP Sandeep Khirwar is already investigating the case and two cops, SI Baljeet and ASI Mahavir Singh, have been suspended.Despite repeated attempts, comments of Panipat SP Manisha Chaudhary could not be elicited. Bodies of schoolteacher, his two sons recovered from canalThree days after the wife of a junior basic teacher (JBT) allegedly consumed poison at a village in Fatehabad, the police recovered bodies of the teacher and his two sons from a canal on Monday.Fatehabad deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Satender Singh said they had fished out bodies of a 35-year-old teacher and his two sons, aged 15 and 13, from a canal.“The woman is still undergoing treatment at a hospital in Bhattu Kalan and her condition is stable. We are probing why his wife consumed poison and he jumped into a canal. Their uncle told us that the teacher, along with his two sons, was staying in a rented accommodation at Bhattu Kalan, while his wife was staying at his parental home in his native village. When someone told the teacher that his wife had consumed poison, he, along with his two sons, went to a canal and jumped into it,” the DSP added.The DSP further said they have sent the bodies for post-mortem examination and started an investigation into the matter.“We would talk to teacher’s wife to know about the reasons behind such extreme step,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/former-councillor-s-suicide-panipat-sp-among-three-cops-booked/story-R25ud06pcFRmSAi0c2LhpL.html
24-11-2020||Chandigarh||Infections stabilise after three-week spike in Haryana||The coronavirus infection spread in Haryana seems to be stabilising after a big surge for three consecutive weeks, health officials said. Health department data showed that 17,426 fresh infections were reported from across the state last week (November 16-22) as compared to 17,070 the week before, a small increase of 356 cases. In comparison, 3,146 more infections were reported during November 9-15 in contrast to the week before (November 2- 8) and 3,348 additional cases were reported during November 2-8 as compared to October 26-November 1. An all-time high of 17,616 infections was reported in the second week of September. The cases had started declining after that, but picked up again during October end. Additional chief secretary (ACS), health, Rajeev Arora said the cases seem to be stabilising again after renewed escalation for three weeks. “We have ramped up sampling in the past couple of days. The department conducted all-time per day maximum 35,037 tests on November 21 and 33,583 on November 22. Our target is to conduct 30,000 tests per day. Increased testing will help us isolate infected persons and bring down the positivity rate,” the ACS said. Arora said that four districts — Gurugram, Faridabad, Hisar and Rohtak — collectively accounted for more than 67% of the total active cases. “Testing is being increased significantly in these four districts. In Gurugram alone, 16,700 tests were done in the past two days. About 5,500 tests were done in Faridabad in the last two days,” he added. RT-PCR testing continues to be up As per the statistics, 13,938 more reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests, considered gold standard test for Covid-19, were conducted by the health department last week. The health authorities had increased the RT-PCR testing by about 35,000 the week before the last. The positivity rate from RT-PCR testing is 7.9% whereas it stands at 4.4% from the rapid antigen tests. 10 districts have critical positivity rate Health department data showed that 10 of the 22 districts have critical positivity rate (more than 6%). Faridabad leads the charts with 12.5% positivity rate followed by Gurugram (9.8%), Rewari (8.7%), Hisar (8.4%), Panchkula (8.1%), Panipat (8%), Ambala (7.7%), Karnal and Sirsa (6.5% each) and Mahendergarh (6.2%). Only two districts – Charkhi Dadri (1.7%) and Nuh (1.4%) — have desirable positivity rate of less than 2 %. The overall positivity rate of the state is 6.9%. Vij rules out lockdown, night curfew in HaryanaHaryana health minister Anil Vij on Monday ruled out the possibility of any kind of lockdown or night curfews anywhere in the state.“There are two options to prevent the Covid spread: Lockdown and strictness. But I’m in favour of the second option. Amid the existing circumstances, our mask is a vaccine as long as there is no medical vaccine to prevent the infection. I’ll ask my party workers to raise awareness for this cause,” he had said on Saturday.Vij also distributed masks to commuters, shopkeepers and pedestrians in Ambala. Several BJP leaders accompanied him in the drive.2,663 fresh cases in state, 28 more dieHaryana on Monday reported another big spike of 2,663 fresh novel coronavirus cases, raising the infection tally to 2,19,963 while 28 more fatalities pushed the death toll in the state to 2,216.According to the state health department’s daily bulletin, of the fresh cases, the worst-affected Gurugram district reported 866 while 577 infections were from Faridabad.Gurugram and Faridabad, both of which fall in the National Capital Region (NCR), are the two districts hardest hit by the pandemic.Among other districts which reported a big spike in cases included Rewari (206), Rohtak (136), Hisar (135) and Sonepat (134).The fatalities included three each from Gurugram, Faridabad, Hisar and Rohtak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/infections-stabilise-after-three-week-spike-in-haryana/story-f7UmsLyjJYnbjOmcTTq9yI.html
24-11-2020||City||Lawyers found dead: Husband of one of the victims booked||Nearly a week after the bodies of two lawyers were found in a charred car near Phagwara bypass, police have registered a murder case against three persons, including the husband of one of the victims.The victims were identified as Bhagwant Kishore Gupta, a senior practicing lawyer, and his assistant, Siya Khullar. Presuming it to be an accident, the police had initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) but Gupta’s family suspected it was a well-planned murder. His son, Supninder, had alleged that the lawyers were killed and their bodies were set on fire in the car to destroy evidence. On his statement, the police have booked Siya’s husband Ashish Kushwaha, a resident of Vikram Enclave, and his two acquaintances, Sunil Kumar and Rahul Kumar under Section 302 (murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of Indian Penal Code.Earlier, Kushwaha had told the police that after Diwali pooja at his residence, he had left for Noida and did not know about the incident. He had even refused to come for the last rites of his wife, stating that he would not be able to see her charred body.Senior superintendent of police Navjot Mahal said raids are being conducted to arrest the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lawyers-found-dead-husband-of-one-of-the-victims-booked/story-3hSsuKbFG8AauH6oX0SSuI.html
24-11-2020||City||NRI couple robbed of SUV, jewellery at gunpoint in Tarn Taran village||Five unidentified bike-borne men looted an SUV, a gold chain, Rs 27,000 and other valuables from an NRI couple at gunpoint near Mianpur village in Tarn Taran, police said on Monday.Police said, the incident took place at around noon on Sunday when New York-based NRIs Rashpal Singh (62) and his wife Sukhwinder Kaur were on their way from an Amritsar village to historic gurdwara Bir Baba Budha Sahib near Chabhal town of Tarn Taran district for paying obeisance.A case under Sections 395 (punishment for dacoity) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and 25-27-54-59 of the Arms Act has been registered at Sara-E-Amanat Khan police station of Tarn Taran on the complaint of Rashpal Singh.“On November 12, I came to my ancestral village Jethuwal Nangal in Amritsar from New York. On Saturday, I and my wife were going to pay obeisance at gurdwara Bir Baba Budha Sahib on a Toyota Fortuner (PB-02-DB-4111). When we reached near Mianwal village, I stopped my car to answer nature’s call. When I was about to enter my car, five unidentified persons on two motorcycles opened a fire in the air and asked me to hand them over cash and valuables,” the NRI said. “I gave my wallet containing a card of an American bank, driving licence, an ATM card, some important papers and Rs 15,000. They also snatched a gold chain weighing 5 tolas from my wife’s neck, besides taking her purse containing Rs 12,000. Before leaving the spot, the accused also took away our mobile phones and the SUV.” He added. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Balbir Singh, who is investigating the case, said the probe was on to identify the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nri-couple-robbed-of-suv-jewellery-at-gunpoint-in-tarn-taran-village/story-pyJexd4Q19cL2YaMM5iBrK.html
24-11-2020||City||Vested interests behind farm protests, says Union minister Shekhawat||Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on Monday said rumours were being spread by some people to intensify the ongoing farmers’ protests. The minister, who was in Ambala, said there have been some vested interests behind it (protests). “Farmers would benefit from these agricultural laws which will bring new revolution in the sector,” he said while addressing reporters at the residence of Ambala City MLA Aseem Goel. On the ongoing speculations over ‘anti-conversion’ law, he said that the government has to do something when so many such cases come up. “I object to the statement by Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot that marriages are personal affairs and there is no need for such laws. I understand this, but why there should be a need that a bride is bound to change her maiden name and religion after marriage. Society and governments have to come forward if such cases keep on surging,” he added. Earlier, he inaugurated a newly erected statue of Prithvi Raj Chauhan near Ambala Central Jail. He was accompanied by his deputy in the ministry and Ambala MP Rattan Lal Kataria, Kurukshetra MP Naib Singh Saini, Ambala City MLA Aseem Goel and various party and community leaders from the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vested-interests-behind-farm-protests-says-union-minister-shekhawat/story-1Wejux39VcvDQtHAtpu1yM.html
24-11-2020||City||Dera follower’s murder: Punjab DGP rushes to Bathinda to review probe||Director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta rushed to Bathinda on Monday to review the progress in the murder case of Dera Sacha Sauda follower and foreign exchange trader Manohar Lal Arora at Bhagta Bhaika village in the district.Police sources said the top cop was apprised about the resentment expressed by protesting dera followers over the slow pace of investigation in the murder of another follower, Mohinder Singh Bittu, last year.“It has been more than 72 hours since the murder of Arora but the dera followers have refused to cremate him. A number of premis or followers have gathered at Salabatpura, where the body has been kept in the middle of the road, and dera leaders are raising the issue of targeted killings of sect members and delayed police probes,” said an official source.Sources said Gupta directed the local police to enhance the use of forensic and cyber investigation to identify the culprits.Though Gupta refrained from briefing the media, sources said Bathinda police gave a detailed presentation on various leads in the case.Police officials admit that there had been pressure after a gangster, Sukhpreet Singh alias Sukha Gill Lamme, claimed responsibility for the attack through a Facebook post on Saturday.“The Facebook post, in Punjabi, claimed that the crime was committed by Rajinder and Aman to avenge the sacrilege incidents of 2015. A couple of other posts from the gangster’s social media page resulted in a social media frenzy following which the page was pulled down on Sunday evening,” said sources.Meanwhile, the dera followers said they would cremate the body only after the accused are caught.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) BS Virk said police investigation is on and the culprits will be held soon.“We will hold another round of talks with the dera followers on Tuesday to convince them to end the traffic blockade,” said Virk.Meanwhile, the DGP also took stock of the law and order situation from the police authorities in south Malwa region, ahead of the Punjab farmer unions’ movement towards Delhi for the agitation on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dera-follower-s-murder-punjab-dgp-rushes-to-bathinda-to-review-probe/story-zBhBzRsO3VxoVWbYam5ZKI.html
24-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chautalas can’t use Sirsa farmhouse for marriage, rules HC||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday allowed the enforcement directorate’s (ED’s) plea against de-sealing the Dabwali farmhouse of former Haryana chief minister and Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) leader Om Prakash Chautala for the wedding of his grandsons in November end. This is the second round of litigation between ED and Chautalas on this issue. The appellate tribunal, Prevention of Money Laundering Act, Delhi, had on November 18 allowed Chautalas to use the farmhouse. Tribunal had acted after November 17 order of high court in which it was asked to pass a fresh order on the plea of Chautalas. “The high court has allowed ED’s appeal against tribunal order. Detailed order is awaited,” ED’s counsel Arvind Moudgil said. On November 18, the tribunal had allowed Chautalas to use the farmhouse from November 23 to December 7, reiterating its November 6 order overturned by high court on November 17. The tribunal order had come on the plea of Om Prakash Chautala, who had sought permission to use the farmhouse at Tejakhera village for the wedding of his two grandsons on November 27 and 30. The farmhouse has been sealed by the ED in ongoing probe against Om Prakash Chautala on allegations of money laundering. The ED had told the high court that there is no provision in the PMLA to de-seal an attached property connected with the proceeds of crime, even temporarily. In case it is allowed, it would set a wrong precedent that would be exploited by the accused to enjoy the proceeds of crime till the decision is rendered by the appellate tribunal, the ED argued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chautalas-can-t-use-sirsa-farmhouse-for-marriage-rules-hc/story-RoEz7QksjKwRejMmrlh9cJ.html
24-11-2020||City||Rape plaint: LIP chief records his statement before police||Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) chief and Atam Nagar MLA Simarjit Singh Bains appeared before the police on Monday and recorded his statement in the rape complaint lodged against him by a widow. The complainant also recorded her statement on Monday. Bains, who had been summoned by the police, appeared before additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, headquarters) Ashwini Gotyal. The MLA refuted the allegations levelled by the woman and claimed these were politically motivated.He said that he was speaking up for the people of Punjab, due to which the government was trying to suppress his voice.The MLA added that earlier, the Shiromani Akali Dal government had implicated him in forge cases and now the Congress government is following the same path.The ADCP said that Bains and the woman were asked to record their statement. She will file her report to the police chief after completing the investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rape-plaint-lip-chief-records-his-statement-before-police/story-F4a6jXctJI2acQAyikUYXL.html
24-11-2020||Chandigarh||Will decide on holding winter session after all-party meet: Jai Ram||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Monday said the government may reconsider the decision to hold the winter session of state assembly slated for December 7-12.He said the cabinet had decided to authorised the parliamentary affairs minister to convene an all-party meeting to take a final call on whether to hold the winter session. The chief minister said the government may decide to postpone or cancel the assembly session.“The 10-day monsoon session was conducted successfully during which Covid was important agenda. Whether the winter session should be cancelled or be held at Shimla or Dharamshala will be decided after the all-party meet,” he said, adding that Himachal was one of the worst-hit states in the country. He also refuted reports of there being a shortage of oxygen in the state. “Internal arrangements have been made to meet any shortage of medicines and other medical supplies. He said the state was not in a position to restrict tourist movement on borders but the government may take a decision to this effect, if the need arose. “A BJP legislatures meeting has been called today and Covid is also the agenda,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/will-decide-on-holding-winter-session-after-all-party-meet-jai-ram/story-Z0YfDbc4c84GX6sKfd5UEK.html
24-11-2020||Chandigarh||12 deaths, 351 fresh cases in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 12 deaths and 351 fresh coronavirus infections on Monday, taking the state’s Covid count to 1,06,899 and death toll to 1,641.Officials said 166 people tested positive in Kashmir and 185 in Jammu. Seven persons succumbed to the disease in Jammu and five in Kashmir division. With 608 persons discharged on Monday, as many as 99,827 people have recovered in the UT so far, taking the recovery rate to 93.38%, the highest so far, and leaving 5,431 active cases.A total 1,079 people have succumbed to the disease in Kashmir and 562 in Jammu. So far, 163 people have lost their lives in November. As many as 326 people succumbed to the infection in August, 478 in September and 293 in October.The death toll crossed 500-mark on August 13, 1000-mark on September 20 and 1500-mark on November 03.With 12,109 cases, November, so far, has recorded an average of 526 daily infections against an average of 632 daily cases in October and 1,245 cases in September. An average seven deaths a day have been reported in November so far, 10 were reported in October on an average per day against 16 in September.The total number of tests conducted in the UT has crossed 28.31 lakh.In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 79 more people tested positive, followed by Budgam at 23 cases.In Jammu division, highest number of cases was recorded in Jammu district at 98, followed by 23 in Doda.Srinagar tops the case tally with 22,429 cases and 405 deaths, followed by Jammu district with 19,844 cases and 291 deaths.Till date, 7.67 lakh people have been enlisted for observation – 19,512 in home quarantine, 5,431 in isolation, and 45,989 under home surveillance. Besides, 6.94 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/12-deaths-351-fresh-cases-in-j-k/story-hCNbjOQJ9eDySlgBB5BHjI.html
24-11-2020||Chandigarh||All parties being given equal opportunity: J&K CEC on Farooq’s letter||Jammu and Kashmir state election commissioner KK Sharma on Monday said he had discussed People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration chairperson Farooq Abdullah’s letter with the administration and had assured candidates that all the arrangements will be provided for campaigning in the district development council polls.Sharma said that the complaint that candidates are being prevented from campaigning was wrong and said all political parties have equal opportunities to campaign and undertake election activities.“The letter was discussed in detail with the divisional administration and we wrote back to him (Farooq). I have made it clear that security of candidates is necessary but at the same time all arrangements will be provided to candidates,” Sharma said. He said the police had been asked to ensure that candidates are provided security while campaigning in all areas.“DDC elections in J&K are a historic feat for us. These elections are being held on party basis and the number of candidates participating is good., indicating that people want to participate in these elections,” he said.Sharma held meetings with Kashmir divisional commissioner Pandurang K Pole, inspector feneral of police Vijay Kumar and deputy commissioners of all the districts on Sunday and Monday to review the arrangements for the elections being held between November 28 and December 19.Farooq had written to Sharma on Saturday saying their candidates were not being allowed to canvass freely: “Candidates put up by the PAGD are immediately whisked away to ‘secure locations’ in the name of security and confined to those ‘locations’,” he had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/all-parties-being-given-equal-opportunity-j-k-cec-on-farooq-s-letter/story-52nWTUkIfp8quW4Klt2GpL.html
24-11-2020||Chandigarh||J&K DDC polls: Gupkar Alliance releases fifth list||People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) has released the fifth list of candidates for the district development council (DDC) polls, which will be held in eight phases.Alliance president Farooq Abdullah released the fifth list of candidates, comprising 16 names, most of whom are affiliated with the national conference. Of the 16 DDC seats across Kashmir, the NC will contest on eight seats, the PDP on five seats, People’s Conference on two seats and People’s Movement on one seat. The PAGD candidates will contest on the symbols of their respective parties. So far, PAGD has released names of 104 candidates for the DDC polls in Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/j-k-ddc-polls-gupkar-alliance-releases-fifth-list/story-Bz8W1OHmQR4ZBpB894J1YN.html
24-11-2020||Chandigarh||J&K DDC polls: BJP banking on campaigning by national leaders||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is relying on the campaigning of its national leaders to boost the image of local candidates in Jammu and Kashmir’s district development council (DDC) polls, especially in Kashmir, while other parties have kept their campaigns a low-key affair.So far, six national leaders have visited different parts of the Valley to seek votes for BJP candidates. The BJP is the only party that is vigorously campaigning for the DDC polls, while other political parties, especially the newly formed Peoples Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), have left the campaigning to the second-rung leadership.At present, BJP national spokesperson Syed Shahnawaz Hussain is visiting Kashmir. He went to south Kashmir’s Anantnag to campaign for the DDC polls. Last week, Mukthair Abas Naqvi addressed a rally in Kupwara, in which he lambasted the PAGD leadership for giving ‘false hopes’ to the people of the UT.Union MoS for social justice and empowerment, Krishan Pal Gurjar visited Shopian, Pahalgam and Budgam areas and sought votes for the BJP. Tarun Chug BJP central in-charge for J&K and Ashish Sood BJP leader from Delhi also visited Kashmir.Syed Zaffar Islam, Rajya Sabha MP and BJP leader also arrived in Kashmir for the poll campaign. BJP state spokesperson Altaf Thakur said that BJP had brought national leaders for campaigning as they were going to emerge victorious . “It was due to strength of the BJP that all other parties joined hands, including Congress.” Thakur, who is himself contesting DDC polls from Tra, said in the coming days more national leaders will be coming to Kashmir and Jammu regions.The DDC polls for 280 seats will be held in eight phases starting from November 28 and will come to end on December 19.Congress, another national party, is completely relying on its local leadership. J&K Pradesh Congress president Ghulam Ahmad Mir said the party had full faith on the local leadership. “Our local leaders are campaigning for the candidates and our position is strong in both provinces of J&K. We are not part of any alliance but have tactical understanding with candidates at the local-level.”The DDC polls are the first political test for Apni Party, which is being led by former minister, Altaf Bukhari. The party has many former ministers and former legislator as its members and the new party, which was formed in March is completely relying on the former legislators to make its impact felt. Many opposition parties blame the Apni Party for working on the behest of BJP.PAGD, which comprises six regional, parties have kept their campaigning a very low key affair, however, they are relying on the vast network of party cadres spread across J&K. “All the parties that are part of PAGD have a strong cadre-base, which is a threat to BJP and its allies. If elections are free and fair PAGD candidates will win maximum seats in J&K,” said a top PAGD leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/j-k-ddc-polls-bjp-banking-on-campaigning-by-national-leaders/story-b79o1WDb2b5CxVq0p6VYIM.html
24-11-2020||City||Bathinda man shoots ex-girlfriend, her parents dead before killing self||A 27-year-old man allegedly killed his ex-girlfriend and her parents here before taking his life, police said on Monday. They said Yuvkaran Singh Dhillon committed the crime as he was allegedly being blackmailed by the girl and her family. Charanjit Singh Khokhar, 56, his wife Jaswinder Kaur, 49, and Simran Kaur, 20 were found shot dead at their house at Bathinda’s Kamla Nehru Colony in the morning. A milk vendor informed police after finding Khokhar, secretary at state cooperative department, wife and daughter lying in a pool of blood. The bodies were lying in the lobby on the ground floor. Superintendent of Police Jaspal Singh said the three victims suffered bullet injuries in head. There was no attempt to rob the house, the SP said. During spot inspection, the police found Simran’s mobile phone and noticed frequent calls and from one particular phone number. “Prompt forensic investigation found that the phone number in question belonged to Dhillon of Mansa Khurd village in the district. As the mobile location of Dhillon was also found at the crime location, our team rushed to locate Dhillon. It was found that the suspect ended his life late last night by shooting at his home. But the family performed last rites this morning without informing the police,” senior superintendent of police (SSP) BS Virk said. He said during scanning of Dhillon’s mobile phone, a video clip was spotted where he shared details of the circumstances that led him to kill the three. Police said Dhillon shot the video in his car while driving back to the village after the triple murder.A preliminary investigation said Khokhar and his family were killed at around 9 pm on Sunday, said the SSP. “In the video message, Dhillon talked about his long relation with Simran and the subsequent breakup. The video message claimed that the girl had in possession photographs of their intimate moments. In the video clip, the accused further alleged that Simran and her parents were forcing him for the last several months to marry her or threatened to lodge a rape case against him on the basis of their old photos,” said the SSP. Dhillon also said he used his cousin’s licensed arm to commit the crime. Virk said no other criminal angle is suspected and the probe is being completed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bathinda-man-shoots-ex-girlfriend-her-parents-dead-before-killing-self/story-NED7vu81GQju4VPtwRMDZK.html
24-11-2020||Chandigarh||Plea in Delhi HC seeks FIR against Mehbooba Mufti over flag remark||A Delhi-based lawyer on Monday moved the Delhi High Court seeking directions to the Delhi Police to file an FIR against former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti for her “dacoits snatched our flag” remark terming it as inflammatory, derogatory and inciting.Advocate Vineet Jindal in his plea said Mehbooba Mufti has used “derogatory and instigating” statements against the duly elected Indian government.“It is an inciting statement which intends to create hatred and unrest among the communities and waging war against the duly elected government of this country as she is an influential and public personality,” the plea said.It said Mufti has hurt the sentiments of every law-abiding citizen’s pride by this “gross affront” statement and added that these statements by her are instigating and provocative in nature, which intends to create communal disharmony and create hatred and enmity among people.The petition seeks strict actions against Mufti and lodging an FIR under Section 4 of the Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act, 1971, and several other sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) dealing with charges including attempting to wage war against the Government of India and provocation with intent to cause a riot.According to the petition, during a press conference when reporters asked Mufti about the Jammu and Kashmir flag on the desk, she called it “our flag” and said, “We will take tricolour in our hand when we get our flag back. I will not raise any flag other than that flag of J&K.”The petitioner said through this statement she intended to show that Jammu and Kashmir is not a part of Indian territory and stands as a separate entity of its own.“Besides, through this statement, she has disrespected and insulted the Indian flag and has shown indignity to the Indian National flag before the national media,” the plea said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/plea-in-delhi-hc-seeks-fir-against-mehbooba-mufti-over-flag-remark/story-J6JwNXPtAZQwsevWUoNAaJ.html
24-11-2020||Chandigarh||NC committed to equitable development: Slathia||Expressing confidence that the National Conference will leave an indelible mark in the upcoming district development council elections, former minister and senior leader Surjit Singh Slathia on Monday said a stable political structure was imperative for meeting challenges and steering J&K towards peace, progress and development.“The National Conference (NC) has a credible record of public service and ushering J&K to unprecedented development during different spells of governance in the past over four decades”, Slathia said, while addressing people at Vijaypur.“Jammu region has suffered the most as the balloon of the BJP’s false promises has burst in recent years. The people had pinned many hopes with the BJP but their betrayal has left them devastated. The personal agenda of the BJP has prevailed over public interest, as a result Jammu has suffered on the front of development, implementation of welfare schemes and jobs,” Slathia said. Slathia exhorted National Conference workers to remain steadfast in their mission of serving the people, saying the party has surmounted turbulent winds with fortitude and there is no reason why it will not emerge as a force to reckon with.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nc-committed-to-equitable-development-slathia/story-JOzkhojewzXyCTFO4RYWMN.html
24-11-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal logs 22 deaths, 454 fresh infections||Himachal on Monday recorded 454 fresh Covid infections, taking the state’s tally to 34,781 while 22 more patients succumbed to the contagion. Of the new cases, 90 were reported in Solan, 88 in Kangra, 69 in Mandi, 60 in Kullu, 40 in Shimla, 33 in Una, 30 in Hamirpur, 17 in Bilaspur, 14 in Lahaul-Spiti, 7 in Sirmaur and 6 in Chamba. There are 6,680 active cases in the state while 27,518 people have recovered. Mandi is the worst hit district with 5,581 infections and is closely followed by Shimla with 5,561 cases. The two districts share 32% of the total caseload among themselves. Solan ranks third with 4,522 cases followed by Kangra (4,435), Kullu (3,125), Sirmaur (2,530), Una (1,983), Bilaspur (1,817), Hamirpur (1,805), Chamba (1,752), Lahaul-Spiti (964) and Kinnaur (706). Death toll continues to soar Meanwhile, there has been no let-up in Covid deaths in Himachal as 22 more fatalities were reported in the state, taking the toll to 550. This is highest number of fatalities since the outbreak. As many as 238 people have died due to Covid in November alone, of which 59 fatalities occurred in the last three days. There has been 75% jump in the fatalities and the case fatality ratio is nearing 2%. Shimla is the worst-hit district with 138 deaths and is followed by Kangra where 105 people have died till date. Mandi ranks third with 72 deaths. Sixty deaths have been recorded in Kullu and 48 in Solan. Most of the deceased were the elderly and those with co-morbidities such as cancer, renal failure, diabetes and high-blood pressure. Kangra SP’s office closed again The office of the Kangra superintendent of police at Dharamshala was closed again on Monday after six cops tested positive. The office has been closed for the second time in four days. The office was reopened today after it was closed down on March 20 after 12 cops were tested positive. Kangra SP Vimukt Ranjan said the office building was being sanitised as per protocol and will remain closed for the next 48 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-logs-22-deaths-454-fresh-infections/story-nRT1g8u0MrUki2Nnboj87J.html
24-11-2020||Chandigarh||Roshni land scam: J&K admn set to post list of beneficiaries on govt website||Pursuant to the high court’s directions regarding the ₹25,000 crore Roshni land scam, the Jammu and Kashmir administration is all set to post the names of beneficiaries, which include influential people including politicians, on the government website, as per an official privy to the development.HT has a list of around 20 influential people, who allegedly benefitted from the Roshni Act. They include former ministers and their family members, who are and were associated with PDP, Congress and NC, prominent hotelier from Kashmir, a former bureaucrat and his wife, a former banker from J&K Bank, a former Congress minister from Doda and a former NC minister from Kishtwar. The administration is already working on cancelling all mutations of land transferred under the ‘unconstitutional’ Roshni Act across the UT. A top administrative official said, “Over the last 30 to 40 years, many people have usurped government and forest land through different means in Jammu and Kashmir. This has been done by enacting laws to regularise lands encroached upon by rich, wealthy and influential people or illegally through brazen encroachment of public land.”In 2001, the Jammu and Kashmir State Lands (Vesting of Ownership to the Occupants) Act, 2001, was passed to provide ownership of state lands to the people who were occupying such lands. “Under its garb, hundreds of acres of valuable forest and state land across Jammu and Kashmir has been illegally occupied, usurped and encroached upon by politicians, businessmen, bureaucrats and judicial functionaries,” he said. Roshni Act was introduced in the budget speech of 2000 by then finance minister Abdul Rahim Rather of the National Conference. In the 2005, the PDP government-led by Mufti Mohammed Syed relaxed the cut off year to 2004. The Congress government led by Ghulam Nabi Azad, further relaxed the cut off year to 2007. “The working of the Roshni Act was effected arbitrarily, dishonestly and illegally. There exist glaring instances of state lands being usurped,” said the official. “A major highlight of the scam was that in 2007, rules were framed under the said Act whereby agricultural land was given away almost free of cost and urban land was given away at discounted prices in the name of rewards, rebates and incentives. Further, the rules allowed usage of agricultural and forest lands for commercial activities, which is against statutory provisions,” he added. A 2014 report by the comptroller and auditor general found that only ₹76 crore had been realised from the transfer of encroached land between 2007 and 2013, against the targeted ₹25,000 crore. On November 28, 2018, the then governor Satya Pal Malik had repealed the flawed Act: “Persons in position, power and those with financial resources including bureaucrats, government officials, ministers, legislators, police personnel, business persons etc., have influenced the completely illegal vesting of state lands,” he had said. “Following the high court order, revenue department officials have been cancelling mutation orders under the Roshni Act. Consequently, a list of 15,000 beneficiaries is being uploaded on the official and the National Informatics Centre (NIC) website after due step-by-step vetting ,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/roshni-land-scam-j-k-admn-set-to-post-list-of-beneficiaries-on-govt-website/story-d4JjNxMZ9rkGHY6SWsQp0I.html
24-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: 55-year-old woman dies as public toilet’s wall collapses in Kurla||A 55-year-old woman died as the wall of a public toilet in Kurla collapsed on Monday around 7am, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)’s disaster management cell said. The woman’s leg got stuck under the wall, and she was taken to Rajawadi Hospital around 9.30am. However, she was declared dead around 10.30am. BMC officials said the civic body will investigate who can be held responsible for the collapse.According to BMC officials, they were undertaking work of toilet augmentation at the toilet block where the incident took place. Of the total 12 toilet seats, six were demolished last week, and the remaining six were to be demolished this week. However, residents of the surrounding area continued to use it despite the ongoing demolition work.Manish Valanju, assistant municipal commissioner of L ward, which covers Kurla, said, “We are going to investigate why the wall collapsed and if there was negligence. However, primary information is that residents had opposed the demolition of six of the 12 toilets and continued to use it. We are investigating the issue.”Under BMC’s 2018 project, public toilets across 24 administrative wards are being reconstructed to accommodate additional toilet seats. Also, initial reports of structural audit of nearly 1,000 public toilets across the city in 2018 had revealed that more than 50% of them are in dilapidated condition and need reconstruction, major and minor repairs.Chirag Nimkar, a resident, said, “It is very easy for BMC to ask us to not use the toilet. But in reality, it is very difficult for us to go to a different area at times considering the distance. It is very easy to say that we should use toilets from nearby areas, but BMC should arrange mobile toilets to ensure these types of incidents are not repeated.”Meanwhile, local BJP corporator Harish Bhandirge has demanded monetary compensation from BMC for the victim’s family. Bhandirge said, “BMC had displayed a board outside the toilet to not use it considering demolition work was scheduled for the same. However, residents continued using it. I am demanding that BMC give monetary compensation to the family of the lady whose two children are to be looked after.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-55-year-old-woman-dies-as-public-toilet-s-wall-collapses-in-kurla/story-7ev0NcQi3VCR9NjF2GdEqM.html
24-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh urban planning dept to take final call soon on Sector 39 mandi||Chandigarh: The UT urban planning department will take a final call soon on the revised plans submitted to it by the marketing committee for the new grain, vegetable and fruit market in Sector 39. The committee modified the plan and drawings prepared by a consultant to ensure that the new market did not have the same bottlenecks as the old grain and vegetable market in Sector 26. Funds will be allocated for the market once all plans are finalised. The administration has suggested some changes to the urban planning department in the plan submitted by the consultant, an official said on condition of anonymity as he is not authorised to speak to the media. Apart from this, the department has also been made aware of the requirement of the committee for the new market. In the first plan, there were some deficiencies in traffic management, which had been rectified, he added. In August 2015, the Punjab and Haryana high court had directed the UT administration to start the mandi work. Though the administration in its affidavit to the court had said that the market would open in Sector 39 by March 31, 2016, things could not be finalised on time. Only one shed and five toilet blocks have been built in the market so far. In its plan, the administration had decided to get the market committee office, Kisan Seva Kendra, cold storage, office block built for commission agents here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ut-urban-planning-dept-to-take-final-call-soon-on-sector-39-mandi/story-NwexKUp2a7PpEbaqkPZIdM.html
24-11-2020||Chandigarh||Man held for cheating uncle of ₹5 lakh after promise to buy flat||A man who cheated his uncle of Rs 5 lakh by promising to book an apartment for him in Noida was arrested by Panchkula police on the basis of a complaint filed in September.A cheating case was registered two months ago after Pinjore resident Yunus Khan complained to the police that his nephew Nafees Khan, who had come from Noida to stay with him two years ago, had taken money from him reportedly for an apartment his boss, Bhoopati, was selling in Noida for Rs 22 lakh. Nafees had said that even though the flat cost Rs 35 lakh his boss was selling it cheap as he had been transferred to Chandigarh.By September 2018, Yunus gave Nafeez Rs 5 lakh to book the flat. “He handed over some documents, but those were fake. When contacted, Bhoopati said he was in Dubai. Whenever we questioned our nephew, he would assure us that he would make us meet Bhoopati when he returned to India,” Yunus said.Alleging that his nephew has cheated him, Yunus finally forwarded a complaint to the police two months ago, following which an FIR under section 406 (Punishment for criminal breach of trust) and 420 (Cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the Indian Penal Code was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-held-for-cheating-uncle-of-5-lakh-after-promise-to-buy-flat/story-P3Poi0qhOyI8AmtCi3ZP2M.html
24-11-2020||Mumbai||No PhD scholar from ST category in 11 of 26 departments at IIT-Bombay between 2015 and 2019: RTI data||Eleven out of the Indian Institute of Technology Bombay’s (IIT-B) 26 departments and centres did not admit a single PhD scholar from the scheduled tribe (ST) category between 2015 and 2019, revealed data received under the Right to Information (RTI) Act. While almost 50% seats at IITs are for students from reserved categories — ST, scheduled caste (SC) and other backward classes (OBC) — less than 30% of those selected for PhD programmes at IIT-B between 2015 and 2019 were from these categories. A total of 82,277 students applied for admission to PhD programmes in the 26 departments of IIT-B between 2015 and 2019. Of the 2,874 selected, 71.6% were from the general category; 1.6% were from the ST category; 7.5% were from the SC category; and 19.2% were from the OBC category. Of the total applications received in the five years, only 1.8% were from candidates from ST category; 10.7% from SC category and 21.8% from OBC category. This information was disclosed in response to an RTI application filed by an IIT-B student in association with the Ambedkar Periyar Phule Study Circle (APPSC), a student organisation at the institute. HT has a copy of the RTI response. The government of India’s (GoI) norms require 10% of all seats to be reserved for students from economically weaker sections; 27% for OBC students; 15% for SC students; 7.5% for ST students; and 5% for students with physically disabilities. Data from IIT-B shows only one department admitted more than 10 ST students between 2015 and 2019. Eleven departments admitted more than 10 SC students in five years and 14 departments admitted more than 10 OBC students. Dean of academic programmes Amitava De said the institute followed all the reservation norms in letter and spirit; and only candidates who clear the cut-offs set by each department are admitted to PhD programmes. “Over and above the eligibility criteria, candidates are required to qualify through a test and/ or interview …The cut-offs for each birth category is fixed as per the GoI norms. To be eligible for the final admission offer, a candidate must score marks above the set cut-off mark,” said De, adding that the admission committee of each academic unit checks and monitors the admission process to check for biases.In a statement, APPSC said, “The institute has not yet clarified what are the guidelines devised by the GoI in the case of cut-off marks for admission. The reservation policy has itself been introduced in IITs only much later than it was in other institutions. The cut-off marks function in addition to the basic eligibility criteria, which is almost a deterrent for ST, SC, and OBC students from joining the institute at all. A systemic practice of exclusion is happening across all IITs… We strongly demand the removal of this additional cut-off and the following of the reservation policy in its true spirit.”At IIT-B, PhD admissions are held twice a year for all 12 positions including teaching assistantship and research assistantship. De said that an advertisement for admissions is placed on the institute’s website and candidates have to apply online. “Candidates are selected based on prior academic records, test and/or interview,” said De. Of the total number of candidates who applied to the PhD programmes in the five-year period, only 3.5% were successful in securing admission. De said the number of applications from SC, ST and OBC categories were lower than from the general category. Of the 54,021 general category candidates who applied, 3.8% were admitted while 2.4% of SC applicants were admitted. For ST and OBC candidates, the conversion rate is 3.1%.For instance, the mathematics department of IIT-B received 43 applications from ST candidates between 2015 and 2019, but none were selected. Of the 220 applications the department received from SC candidates, only seven were selected in the same period. Of the 607 OBC applicants, 19 made it through.Former chairperson of University Grants Commission and author of Blocked By Caste: Economic Discrimination and Social Exclusion in Modern India, said, “Initially, the number of applicants from reserved categories in higher education institutes were few. However, the situation has improved now with more applications coming in. While the lack of representation has to be understood in the context of the number of applications, the lack of representation at IIT-B is concerning, irrespective of the reasons.”APPSC alleged IIT-B has not followed the ministry of education norms for vacant seats. “Rules mandate that if the institute fails to implement the stipulated reservation for a year, it has to re-advertise the seats, call for admissions again, and carry forward those seats into the subsequent year. IIT-B should explain why they haven’t been following any of these mechanisms, despite seats being left vacant,” said APPSC.On the subject of biases, De said students can approach the SC/ST cell with complaints, but students said it was not easy to report biases. APPSC said in its statement that the SC/ST cell has been ineffective. “The caste bias at IIT-B is both systemic and subtle. The data clearly shows that very few from reserved categories are admitted. Casual remarks are passed by professors and colleagues that our admissions are not based on merit. There is an insinuation that we should drop out midway,” said a research scholar at IIT-B who is from the SC community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-phd-scholar-from-st-category-in-11-of-26-departments-at-iit-bombay-between-2015-and-2019-rti-data/story-Fg2qRn6uyQtNDBdKoZp43K.html
24-11-2020||Chandigarh||With the groom in a wheelchair, this is a story of true love||It was a moving moment for everyone gathered at a wedding here when the groom, Rahul Singh Diwakar, started taking the pheras around the holy fire in his wheelchair, with his bride Anamika Bhartiya, resplendent in red, following him.The wedding of Diwakar, a quadriplegic, and Anamika, who has no disabilities, in the city on Monday, was one chapter in a journey of love triumphing over trauma.Both 29, they had known each other since 2000 from the age of nine, when they were neighbours in Fatehgarh, Uttar Pradesh. When disaster struckIn 2008 they realised they had feelings for each other and things were going well when, some years later, disaster struck. “I used to meet Anamika every day, but on that day, March 13, 2016, I was in a hurry as I was going for a competitive examination and didn’t get to see her. I was riding pillion on a friend’s motorcycle when it slipped and I fell, injuring my back,” said Diwakar.When friends took him to hospital, he realised he has lost the use of his limbs.With tears in his eyes, he said, “Anamika did not once let me feel I was disabled when my lower half was completely paralysed.”She took care of him during the day when his father, an Army officer, and mother and sister, both teachers, were at work.Even when Diwakar and his family moved to Lucknow in 2018, “distance could not part us, and I used to talk to Rahul for seven to eight hours on the phone daily as he was very depressed and I tried to keep his spirits high,” recalled Bhartiya. Soon she realised she had to make a big decision. “I went to Lucknow without telling relatives at home and tried to convince Rahul’s family to let me marry him, but they didn’t agree. I went again last year but for his father it was a firm no”, said Bhartiya. Later, with much convincing, however, his family agreed.About Diwakar’s disability, her response is: “What if he had suffered the injury after our marriage? Would I have left him then?”A bigger familyToday, Bhartiya, after marrying Diwakar, is part of a bigger family as she lost her mother six years ago to bone cancer and her father some years later to brain haemorrhage.Interestingly, it was the Chandigarh Spinal Rehab Centre that hosted the wedding and took care of all expenses.“Rahul came to Chandigarh in September for treatment when he got to know about the centre through the internet,” said Nicky P Kaur, founder and CEO of the centre.A BTech who has been hired by an MNC, Diwakar is undergoing training there. “I wanted to make sure their wedding is as grand as the one I organised for my own children and we have allocated a furnished room for them, where they can stay for as long as they want to,” Kaur added||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/with-the-groom-in-a-wheelchair-this-is-a-story-of-true-love/story-3tOBFPTVwIQ7B1FWzHZe8H.html
24-11-2020||Mumbai||Covid-detection through AI: Phase-1 of study in Mumbai’s NESCO facility ends; voice samples of 2,000 patients collected||The NESCO jumbo Covid-19 centre at Goregaon has completed the first phase of screening suspected Covid-19 patients through their voice samples by using artificial intelligence (AI). The centre has collected 4,000 voice samples from 2,000 suspected Covid-19 patients for the pan-India study and a preliminary report on the research is expected to be released next month. The study commenced in August with an Israel-based company. The report is likely to establish the effectiveness of the first-of-its kind diagnostic tool to detect Covid-19. “We have collected 4,000 samples from 2,000 patients. Each patient has given two voice samples. The first sample was given when the patients were suspected of having Covid-19 during their admission to the centre, while the second sample was given after their recovery,” said Dr Neelam Andrade, dean of Nair Dental Hospital, who is in-charge of the NESCO facility. The samples have been sent to a firm Vocalis Health for analysis. “Along with the voice samples, we have also conducted Covid-19 tests on suspected patients. This will help experts to identify if the voice analysis technique can actually detect infected patients,” said Dr Andrade. According to the experts, the study is based on the hypothesis that the novel coronavirus infection may affect the voice of individuals, given the interdependence between the respiratory and speech systems in the body. When symptoms of Covid-19 manifest, an individual starts developing breathing problems that affect the amount of air exhaled. This exhaled air interacts with inflamed muscles on its journey to produce voice or speech. These interactions impact voice modulations — measurable qualities that form the basis of their biomarkers. Depending on its variations, an individual can be detected with Covid-19. An individual will be diagnosed based on vocal biomarkers (VB). For instance, if a person’s VB is below the standard point — 0.5, they will be considered negative for the virus. But if anyone records VB above the standard point, the patient will be suspected to be infected with Covid-19 and an RT-PCR test will be conducted for confirmation. “With lockdown restrictions being lifted, this diagnosis can prove to be helpful as it provides reports in just 30seconds. The preliminary report will be available next month. The final reports, which will come in January, will help in deciding the effectiveness of the technique,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC. In the pan-India study, 10,000 samples will be collected all across the country. “If it shows promising results, we have plans to use the programme in hospitals as well. It is non-invasive and can deliver results quicker than other tests,” said Kakani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-detection-through-ai-phase-1-of-study-in-mumbai-s-nesco-facility-ends-voice-samples-of-2-000-patients-collected/story-1MwSFxsTM8I0m1egG94OBI.html
24-11-2020||Pune||19-year-old held for murder of man over affair with the same woman in Pune||A 19-year-old man was remanded to custody of Pimpri-Chinchwad police on Tuesday for the murder of a 27-year-old man in Hinjewadi area on Sunday.The police are on a lookout for two others in the case while the one arrested has been remanded to police custody till November 26.The deceased was identified as Nival Sukhlal Pavra (27), a resident of Sakhare Vasti in Hinjewadi while the arrested man was identified as Mahendra alias Bablya Ashok Telgote (19), also a resident of the same area.While Pavra was a tanker driver , others are labourers in private companies and daily wagers.“The deceased was having an extra marital affair with a girl who was also involved with one of the two accused who are on the run. Two months ago, the two men had gotten into a fight over the woman and Pavra had slapped the one who is on the run. These three hatched a plan and killed him,” said assistant police inspector Shashikant Dendage of Hinjewadi police station who is investigating the case.The three picked up Pavra from his house late on Saturday night saying they wanted to discuss something important with him, according to the complaint in the matter lodged by the deceased man’s wife.The complainant was identified as Hira Pavra (21), a housewife and a native of Shirpur in Dhule, according to the police.The man was found dead in the morning with injuries on his head caused by sharp weapons, according to the police.A case under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Hinjewadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/19-year-old-held-for-murder-of-man-over-affair-with-the-same-woman/story-9s2Iyt2VXmmSb4aY8jj1RI.html
24-11-2020||Pune||Man held for cheating investor by allegedly faking Art of Living connection||A 28-year-old man posing as an employee of Art of Living (AoL) Foundation was arrested for duping a man of Rs 1.4 crore by allegedly using the foundation’s name. The police suspect him to have duped multiple other people in the same way.The man identified as Pranay Uday Khare (28), a resident of Salunkhe Vihar in Kondhwa, has been remanded to four days in custody of Pune police by a local court.He allegedly organised camps in the name of AoL and told the attendees that he worked as the district development co-ordinator for the foundation while running a company called JK ventures.“He used the goodwill that comes with the name of the company and made people believe that he had purchased 7,000 acres in Ratnagiri through his company, JK Ventures. Due to his perceived association with AOL, the complainant trusted him,” said police sub inspector Deepak Mane of Unit 4 of Pune police crime branch.He offered lucrative returns if a person invested in an acre for 15 years, according to the complainant Ashwinikumar Kamble (44), a resident of Aundh.Kamble invested Rs1,45, 16,111 in the fake venture in 2017, he told the police.“The first 11 investors were promised returns of Rs 1 crore in 15 years, the next 50 investors were promised Rs 50 lakh and the rest would get Rs 40 lakh: that is what he told people. We are looking for other victims in the case,” said PSI Mane.The man has several other companies which are suspected to be fake - Vistar307, DYogic, AHO Lifestyle Private Limited, and a communication agency, according to the police.A case under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code was registered against Khare at Chatuhshrungi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/man-held-for-cheating-investor-by-allegedly-faking-art-of-living-connection/story-54TncHXxGrD8wGtQUOY1fN.html
24-11-2020||Pune||Fight over cricket match leads to murderous assault in Pune; one arrested||A man was arrested for the attempted murder of a person in Model Colony, Pune over a misunderstanding during a cricket match on Sunday.Police are on a lookout for two others in the case. The arrested man was identified as Rajesh Korhade, according to police sub inspector Mahesh Bhosale of Chatuhshrungi police station who is investigating the case. Korhade will be produced in a local court for further remand on Tuesday.The injured man, also the complainant in the case was identified as Sachin Banpatte (34), a resident of Vadarwadi Vasahat who had come to meet his friends including Chandar Vitkar, also a resident of Vadarwadi Vasahat.While playing cricket on the Government Polytechnic ground in Model Colony, Vitkar got in a fight with one of the accused and was slapped by him. Banpatte diffused the fight and was speaking with Vitkar and one other person when the friend of the person who had slapped Vitkar attacked the back of Banpatte’s head with a sharp weapon while two others hit him on the back with stumps, according to the complainant. Meanwhile, one of Banpatte’s friend was attacked with an empty beer bottle, according to the police.“The complainant and the main accused both did not start the fight. Their respective friends got in a fight with each other and it escalated. The complainant tried to diffuse the situation but that enraged the accused further and he hit him,” said PSI Bhosale.A case under Sections 307, 324, 323, 337, and 34 of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 37(1)135 of Maharashtra Police Act and Section 4(25) of Arms Act was registered at Chatuhshrungi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/man-arrested-for-attempted-murder-over-cricket-fight/story-xwRfi0Nq4KO5GMPjlHXu8M.html
24-11-2020||Pune||Ahmednagar police book man for giving triple talaq to wife over phone||Pune: The Ahmednagar police have booked Faisal Ghulamuddin Shah (32), a resident of Jammu and Kashmir, for giving triple talaq to his 31-year-old wife over the mobile phone. The complainant had gone to Dubai for a job and had returned to Ahmednagar, her native place, when she received a call from her Mumbai-based husband on November 20. Shah told her that he does not want to have any relation with her and does not want to stay with her, according to the police complaint. An official of the Bhingar police station where the case is lodged said that the accused allegedly gave her “talaq over the phone” on November 20. The complainant approached the police station and a case under relevant sections of the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act, 2019, which bans the practice of instant triple talaq, was lodged against the accused. According to the police, the woman has completed a beauty parlour-related course and used to work in Mumbai. She moved to Dubai for better job opportunities and recently returned to Ahmednagar where she owns a flat. The couple has a three-year-old daughter. Shaikh Moinuddin, head constable, who is the investigating officer in the case, said, “A case has been filed. Since I am on leave, I won’t be able to provide any details.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ahmednagar-police-book-man-for-giving-triple-talaq-to-wife-over-phone/story-nLlnZAhCG6I0TFhyyRNbHN.html
24-11-2020||Pune||MNS workers seek timely payment of salaries for Sassoon healthcare workers||Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) party workers on Monday met the Sassoon General Hospital administration and sought timely payment of salaries of contractual healthcare workers.MNS city unit president Ajay Shinde, said, “Many contractual healthcare workers have been working with the Sassoon General Hospital and at the jumbo Covid-19 hospital. Some of these employees have not received their salaries on time. We met the dean and administrative officials of the Sassoon General Hospital on Monday and sought timely payment of salaries.”Shinde claimed that the Sassoon General Hospital administration promised that the contractual heathcare staff will receive their due salaries in the next two days.The MNS city unit president added, “Maharashtra and Pune are on the brink of the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic. If the authorities do not give payments to healthcare workers in time, it will create great difficulty in procuring and employing contractual healthcare workers in the future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/mns-workers-seek-timely-payment-of-salaries-for-sassoon-healthcare-workers/story-Z1TQZ3ScwRTyCPp9wZZLzI.html
24-11-2020||Pune||National institute of Naturopathy to construct 250-bed hospital in Pune||National Institute of Naturopathy (NIN), also known as Baput Bhavan, will construct a 250-bed hospital and deemed university in Pune, which would be spread over 25 acres at Yewalewadi.The institute will have courses related to naturopathy. National Institute of Naturopathy director Dr K Satya Lakshmi, said, “The 250-bed hospital work is already in progress. The campus will run on Gurukul basis.”“The total project cost is Rs 200 crore which has been approved by the central government. The project is known as Nisarg Gram project and spread over 25 acres. As per the existing plan, the project will have 250-bed indoor treatment facility, yoga and meditation hall, living Gandhi memorial, undergraduate, post graduate, PhD and paramedical courses in yoga and naturopathy discipline and research institute,” she added.She added that the campus will have staff quarters, herbal garden, open amphitheatre, hostels for boys and girls. The project will run on solar power and will be a zero waste zone as it is a green building project.The director said, “Mahatma Gandhi used to stay at Bapu Bhavan in Pune and considered it his home. The National Institute of Naturopathy is working under the Ministry of Ayush as an autonomous body. It is spreading Bapu’s message through naturopathy. Naturopathy treatment is being accepted across the world.”Dr Satya Laxmi said, “We have applied to get the deemed university status for our new campus and the University Grant Commission is positive about it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/national-institute-of-naturopathy-to-construct-250-bed-hospital-in-pune/story-jg43WudcIsGQ3qZHY62JxH.html
24-11-2020||Pune||Health minister Rajesh Tope hints return of curbs, says CM to hold meeting in two days||A day after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray warned of another lockdown with reports of residents flouting Covid prevention norms, health minister Rajesh Tope on Monday hinted that certain Covid-19 restrictions may return. During his visit to Pune on Sunday, deputy CM Ajit Pawar had said, “The government is monitoring the rise in Covid cases and a decision can be taken about lockdown after reviewing the situation in 8-10 days.” Tope, who was speaking to reporters in his hometown Jalna, on Monday, said the chief minister will be holding a meeting in the next two days to discuss the possible restrictions. Hours after Tope’s remarks, the state government made reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test compulsory for travellers coming to the state from Delhi, Rajasthan, Goa and Gujarat by air or train. The passengers, according to the state notification issued by chief secretary Sanjay Kumar, will have to carry “negative” results of the RT-PCR test on landing in Maharashtra. Besides restrictions on passengers, Tope hinted that the number of those attending wedding needs to be brought down from existing 200. “Given the rise in the number of cases, we may have to take firm steps if needed. If may be complete lockdown, but certain restrictions can be brought back such as bringing down the number of those attending weddings and other public events. The decision is expected in a meeting convened by the CM in the next two days,” he said. The minister also hinted about increasing the amount of fine from those not wearing masks on the lines of Delhi, which recently hiked mask violation fine from Rs 500 to Rs 2,000. His remarks came against the backdrop of Maharashtra’s Covid tally steadily surpassing the 5,000-mark post Diwali. The rising cases also prompted Thackeray to warn citizens to follow discipline and safety measures. In his address on Sunday, Thackeray said that indiscipline could not just lead to the possible second wave but “tsunami” of infection spread. Within Maharashtra, Pune, along with Mumbai, has been reporting high number of cases as a large number of people came out on streets during the festive season. Pune city’s positivity rate has gone up from below 10 per cent before Diwali to close to 13 per cent in the week after Diwali, an indication of the spread of the virus. Although the civic body has been increasing its testing numbers, in the week after Diwali the city saw a drastic rise in the number of cases in comparison to tests conducted by the civic body. Echoing similar views that of Tope, minister for rehabilitation Vijay Wadettiwar said that certain restrictions are needed in the state considering the spread of the virus in the past few days. “We will have to observe the situation in the next eight days and then take a call,” said Wadettiwar while speaking in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/health-minister-rajesh-tope-hints-return-of-curbs-says-cm-to-hold-meeting-in-two-days/story-zDMKbOL3DoaeJFaduWsQ2I.html
24-11-2020||Mumbai||Next Maharashtra government swearing-in will be in broad daylight, says Devendra Fadnavis||Former chief minister and leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis said that the next swearing-in ceremony of the state government will be done at an appropriate time. Fadnavis said that the next swearing-in of the state government will be done at an appropriate time. “We will form a government after the existing Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government falls. The swearing-in will be at the appropriate time,” he said. Fadnavis was reacting to a question by the media on Monday, on the occasion of the first anniversary of his early morning swearing-in as chief minister last year. In the absence of a majority after falling out with the Shiv Sena post-elections, he had to resign on the third day. His remarks have, however, led to political speculations in the state.Another Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and Union minister Raosaheb Danve said that the party will form a government in Maharashtra in the next two to three months. He said that the BJP has made preparations for it.On Sunday, while reacting to Shiv Sena leader Nitin Nandgaonkar’s demand for changing the Karachi Sweets brand name, Fadnavis said that the BJP believes in inclusive politics. “We believe in Akhand Bharat and one day, Karachi will be part of India,” he said, while speaking to reporters in Nagpur.Nandgaonkar had last week asked the owner of the shop in Mahim to omit the word Karachi from his store’s name.Reacting to the statement, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said that the Central government should first focus on bringing back portions of Kashmir that are occupied by Pakistan before thinking about Karachi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/next-maharashtra-government-swearing-in-will-be-in-broad-daylight-says-devendra-fadnavis/story-pdVfYlmqXn1bKQVnlPZKYI.html
24-11-2020||Delhi||Farm fires to blame for higher Covid-19 deaths, says Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain||State health minister Satyendar Jain on Monday attributed the rising Covid-19 fatalities in the city to pollution from stubble burning in neighbouring states, as the city reported 121 deaths of the infection, taking Delhi’s toll past 8,500. The Capital has seen more than 100 deaths of the disease for four straight days now.Delhi, as per Monday’s health bulletin, reported 4,458 new cases of the disease — a drop that came on the back of fewer tests conducted on Sunday. Just over 37,000 tests had been conducted, as per the bulletin, compared to an average of 56,000 tests during the rest of the week. However, over 48% of these were conducted using the RT-PCR method, which is considered the most accurate to diagnose Covid-19.So far, 8,512 people in the city have died of the infection. Monday’s toll, the same as the day before, is the second highest recorded in a single day. The most – 131 – were reported on November 18. Also Read | Start of second Covid-19 wave? States impose fresh set of curbs, curfews are backThe number of deaths has shot up over the fortnight, with 114 people dying on average each day during this week, as compared to 93 the week before and 65 the week before that. The seven-day average case fatality ratio (CFR) – number of deaths among those who test positive — is inching closer to 2%. It stood at 1.84% as per data shared in Monday’s health bulletin. Jain, meanwhile, said that people who contracted Covid-19 when pollution levels were in the ‘severe’ zone earlier this month, faced more serious symptoms.“The pollution in Delhi caused by stubble burning created a lot of problems. Pollution leads to aggravation of respiratory symptoms and the effect of it would be felt for two to three weeks. The people who got Covid-19 when the pollution levels were high, got more serious disease. Now, that pollution levels have gone down, the cases and deaths will go down in two to three weeks,” said Jain during a press briefing on Monday. “Death usually follows the curve of the number of cases and should start coming down in two weeks,” said Jain. Last week, the minister had said that most of the Covid-19 deaths in the city happened ten days after admissions, an improvement from nearly 50% of the deaths happening within 72 hours during the surge in cases in June-July. Studies from across the world have shown that there could be an increase in the number of deaths due to Covid-19 with the increase in the levels of pollution. A study from Italy shows that higher mortality was reported from regions where the air pollution levels were high. The mortality in Northern Italy – where pollution levels are higher – had 12% mortality rate as compared to 4.5% in other parts of the country. Another research from Europe, showed that 78% of all the Covid-19 deaths were reported from five regions in Italy, France, Spain, and Germany where the levels of nitrogen dioxide was high. A study from Harvard University showed that with every 1 μg increase in long-term exposure to PM 2.5, the Covid-19 mortality went up by 8%. Jain, however, assured that there was a downward trend in the number of cases and case positivity rate — number of samples that test positive among total tested — suggesting that the situation is likely to improve in the city. Experts argue that the transmission of the disease is in control when the positivity rate remains at 5% or below for at least two weeks. Delhi’s seven-day average positivity rate stands at 12.1%, as per Delhi government data. “Pollution cannot be the only factor leading to the increase in the number of Covid-19 deaths. The temperatures dipped simultaneously, the festivities led to more infections, and the higher number of cases meant people were reporting late to hospitals,” said Dr Vikas Maurya, head of the department of pulmonology at Fortis hospital, Shalimar Bagh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farm-fires-to-blame-for-higher-deaths-jain-says/story-5ORZzDGTPPxGOsS6DlEmqM.html
24-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Few vacancies despite ICU beds going up by 1,000 since Nov 1||Despite a marked increase in the number of intensive care unit beds for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), only 26% were available for patients on Monday evening, as per data on the government’s Delhi Corona app.The number of ICU beds for Covid-19 treatment– with and without ventilators – have gone up by over 1,000 since the beginning of November, while the total beds for Covid-19 in government, private, and makeshift hospitals have increased by over 2,000 during the same time. “Even though some people have said that the number of cases are going down over the last few days, it has not reflected in the cases coming to the hospitals. We are still getting very sick patients and our ICUs are running full. Every time a new bed opens, there are patients in queue for it,” said Dr Vikas Maurya, head of the department of pulmonology at Fortis hospital, Shalimar Bagh. As on Monday evening, there were no beds available in 57 of the 101 hospitals that had ventilator beds for Covid-19 treatment and 38 others had less than five beds available. As for ICU beds without ventilators, of the 109 total hospitals, 55 had no beds and 28 had fewer than five beds available, as per data on the Delhi Corona app. Dr SP Byotra, chairman of the department of internal medicine at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, concurred. “We have increased some beds, but they are also full. Our staff is stretched thin. We cannot keep expanding the facilities, more because it is drawing from services for the non-Covid patients. We have to therefore ask the people to help out, stay at home, wear masks so that there are fewer new cases.” However, most of the available beds are in smaller centres that may not be equipped to handle complicated cases. “There are patients who come to our hospitals with very low oxygen saturation and in severe condition, many of whom are referred from other private hospitals. We see about 60 admissions a day, of which 15 to 20 patients are those who have been referred from other centres,” said a senior doctor from Delhi government’s Lok Nayak hospital, on condition of anonymity. Another reason for concern is that several people over the age of 60 are getting infected. “Currently, 90% of my ICU is full of elderly patients. Many younger people are stepping out getting the infection and passing it on to the elderly in the family. And, these are the patients who get the most severe disease and need ICU care. Other than that, patients are coming in late to the hospital – when their oxygen saturation has already sipped below 90% -- these patients also need immediate ICU care,” said Dr Maurya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/few-vacancies-despite-icu-beds-going-up-by-1-000-since-nov-1/story-j7pheiv18TtNwGucs3SKwN.html
24-11-2020||Delhi||CPWD constructs new office spaces to shift offices from Central Vista||As part of the Central Vista redevelopment project, the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) is constructing two large office spaces at Africa Avenue and Kasturba Gandhi Marg to accommodate offices operating from hutments at South and North blocks.The North and South Blocks will house the National Museum. The plots south of South Block and north of North Block will be used to construct the residences of the Prime Minister and Vice-President of India, respectively, according to the Central Vista redevelopment plan.The CPWD is constructing seven multi-storeyed buildings ---three nine-storeyed (G+8) buildings at KG Marg and four eight-storeyed (G+7) blocks at Africa Avenue—using state-of-the-art pre-engineered building (PEB) technology. The buildings are expected to be ready by March next year.The total built-up space at the two locations is 93,000 sqm---44,000 sqm at KG Marg and 49,000 sqm at Africa Avenue. “The large office complexes here can accommodate over 14,000 officials. The hutments at the South and North blocks have defence establishments. These will be relocated to these buildings.”Explaining the PEB technology, Vinit Kumar Jayaswal, CPWD director general, said, “The pre-engineered components consist of structural steel columns and beams. Only nuts and bolts are being used for the erection of steel structural frames, and no welding is required at site. Expeditious construction is feasible with dry wall construction technology, which uses light gauge steel frames (LGSF) for the external and internal walls. These frames are covered with cement fibre boards on the outer side of the external walls.”At a time when pollution levels are high in the city, CPWD officials said all measures are being taken at both sites. “We have placed a 10 metre high barricading all-round the perimeter, water is regularly being sprinkled on the open areas apart from the use of anti-smog guns, controlled deconstruction measures, and covering of all debris, sand, excavated soil with suitable fabric sheets, etc,” the official said. The CPWD, the nodal agency for the redevelopment project, is working on creating alternative spaces to shift offices and other establishments located at the Central Vista.For instance, renovation and refurbishment of Janpath Hotel is moving at a fast pace. The hotel complex will accommodate the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts (IGNCA) located on Man Singh Road.The hotel will be IGNCA’s new address for at least two years till a new space is constructed for the academic and cultural institution, which was set up in 1985.Sachidanand Joshi, member secretary, IGNCA, said, “The CPWD is refurbishing the hotel complex as per our requirements. It will have space for classrooms, exhibition halls, auditorium, etc. The space will be around 30,000 sq feet, which is more or less what we have right now, excluding the lawns. “It will take us two months from the date the building is handed over to us to shift everything.”A senior CPWD official said, “We target to complete the renovation work at the hotel by December end.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cpwd-constructs-new-office-spaces-to-shift-offices-from-central-vista/story-vbKbM9X2aHS19gvgaQ44pK.html
24-11-2020||Delhi||Lowest minimum November temperature in Delhi since 2003 — for second straight day||The minimum temperature in the national capital on Monday dropped to 6.3 degrees Celsius, the lowest in November since 2003, as cold wave conditions gripped parts of the city, further bolstering predictions by the met office that winter in Delhi would settle early this year.The lowest minimum temperature fell to 6.9°C on Sunday, which was then the lowest minimum November temperature since 2003.On Monday, the Safdarjung Observatory, considered representative of Delhi’s weather, recorded a minimum of 6.3°C, five notches below normal. The maximum here settled at 26.2°C, normal for this time of the year. “Such a low minimum temperature in November was earlier recorded on November 29, 2003, when it dropped to 6.1°C,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre.A cold wave is declared when minimum temperature is under 10°C and the departure from normal is 4.5° C for more than a day.The lowest ever minimum temperature recorded in the month was on November 28, 1938, when the mercury fell to 3.9°C, IMD data shows.Meanwhile, on Monday, at Lodhi Road, the minimum temperature settled at 6.4°C, four notches below normal, while at Aya Nagar this was 7.4°C, four below normal. At Palam weather station, the minimum was 9.3°C, three below the season’s average.IMD officials have forecast a colder than normal winter for Delhi this year, with both minimum and maximum temperatures likely to remain at least two degrees below normal throughout the season. This is mainly because of global factors such as La Nina, a global weather pattern linked to low minimum temperatures in northwest India.“The cold winds blowing from snow-clad western Himalayas have led to a dip in the mercury. However, a fresh Western Disturbance affecting the Western Himalayan region from Monday will have its impact on Delhi as well and the minimum temperature will rise by 2-3 degrees over the next couple of days. It is like to remain around 8-9°C over the next three days. After the WD passes, cold winds will again start blowing from the region and the mercury is again set to dip from November 27,” said Srivastava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lowest-minimum-november-temperature-in-delhi-since-2003-for-second-straight-day/story-f1zhN7H6asS30Jv9fbMXQO.html
24-11-2020||Delhi||Colleges weighed down by dearth of trained student counsellors||The death by suicide of a 19-year-old undergraduate student at Delhi University’s Lady Shri Ram College (LSR) has exposed the fault lines in online education and points to how psychological counselling initiatives in colleges are not reaching students effectively, stakeholders and experts said.According to the 19-year-old girl’s parents, she was under immense academic and financial stress -- her parents were out of work and they could not afford to buy her a laptop. She had to follow her online classes on her phone. The college had also asked all second-year undergraduate students to vacate the hotel, which had added to her stress, her parents said.While most top colleges, during the online orientation this year, took pains to stress that they have counsellors on call, several students said they weren’t told in detail about them or the facility. Also Read | LSR teachers raise Rs 2.5 lakh to help dead student’s familyFor instance, Prateek Chandera, a first-year student at Deshbandhu College, said, “During our college orientation, we were told about the yoga and meditation facilities on the campus. I can’t recall anything being said on counsellors but they did tell us that students having queries could approach certain teachers.” Manoj Sinha, general secretary of DU Principals Association (DUPA) and principal of Aryabhatta College, said, “As administrators, we know the importance of mental health issues and consistent efforts are made in this regard. There are mentors who can be approached when students need help, at least one-third of all DU colleges have trained psychologists as counsellors.”Through several advisories during the Covid-19 pandemic, the University Grants Commission (UGC) had asked higher educational institutes to take measures to address mental health and well-being of students including setting up helplines, regular monitoring by counsellors,mentoring by teachers, and formation of student help-groups. The ministry of education has also set up a toll-free helpline (8445440632) to provide tele counselling to students with mental health or stress issues.Neelima VP, 18, a first-year student pursuing BA Programme in Miranda House, said, “Student and teacher counsellors shared their contacts during the online orientation, asking us to reach out if we needed help. I think a more effective thing to do would be to organise more group counselling initiatives. In our school, we had such sessions every one or two months and it helped us.”Parents, teachers and students have emphasised on the need for counsellors, therapists and administrators of universities and colleges to step forward and reach out to more students instead of waiting for troubled students to reach out to them. Sanjeev Sahni, principal director of Jindal Institute of Behavioural Sciences, said, “There need to be group therapies sessions and trust building sessions on the subject to spread awareness.” He also recommended a third-party arrangement to ensure that therapists are not on the college’s payrolls. “Trust building exercises are a crucial component since students might often be scared of approaching trained counsellors if they were employed by the college or university.”Jahnvi Kshitij, a final-year UG student of applied psychology at Gargi College, agreed. “Students are often apprehensive to approach a college counsellor with issues related to the college. In our college, our department organises multiple mental health awareness programmes. But we don’t know who the counsellor is. In order to reach out to somebody, you have to know that the person exists,” she said.Dr Satendra Singh, a disability rights activist and a teacher at DU’s University College of Medical Sciences, said, “Despite guidelines and directives, not enough is being done to help students with their mental health problems. Following the 2009 Aman Kachroo death-by-ragging case, the Supreme Court had made it mandatory for colleges to have counsellors. Even the 2017 Mental Healthcare Act cites that suicide reduction programmes must be planned by the government and more people should be employed for mental health services.”Dr Rajesh Sagar, professor of psychiatry at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), said, “Work has to be done on the social integration of all students and to de-stigmatise of mental health initiatives so that any barriers to seeking help are eliminated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/colleges-weighed-down-by-dearth-of-trained-student-counsellors/story-XvStn7gHoheo7tlEKBkxCN.html
24-11-2020||Delhi||Court defers taking cognizance of riots conspiracy charge sheet against Khalid, Imam||A Delhi court on Monday deferred the hearing on the issue of taking cognisance of the supplementary charge sheet in the conspiracy to trigger communal riots in north east Delhi which names Umar Khalid, Sharjeel Imam and Faizan Khan. The charge sheet was filed on Sunday. The Delhi High Court had stayed the trial in the case on November 11 while hearing Delhi Police’s appeal, challenging a trial court order of supplying hard copies of the charge sheet to all suspects. Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat reserved the order for Tuesday, saying the court’s order has to be correct in terms of the high court’s directions. In the supplementary charge sheet filed on Sunday, Imam and Khalid were booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and other sections of the Indian Penal Code, Arms Act and Prevention of Damage to Public Properties Act.In its November 11 order, the HC had said that the trial court is at liberty to decide any application in the case and put up the matter for further hearing on December 15.During the hearing, counsel for some of the accused said that the grievance of the prosecutor was with the supply of physical copies of the bulky main charge sheet and so soft copies of the supplementary charge sheet can be supplied now.Special Public Prosecutor Amit Prasad, appearing for the police, said the prosecution was willing to provide soft copies of the supplementary charge sheet to the accused but the orders have to come from the court. He, however, said if the court passes any such directions for supply of the charge sheet, then the police can challenge it before the high court.The police had challenged the October 21 order of the trial court where it had refused to grant time to the police to obtain funds’ sanction to provide to the accused hard copies of the voluminous charge sheet and directed to provide the same.While both Khalid and Imam are in custody, the Supreme Court confirmed bail for Faizan Khan in another riots related case on Monday. Khan was released on bail by the high court on October 23, after it found no ground to directly link him with the commission of offence. Khan was charged under the UAPA in March this year and was accused of arranging SIM card for a co-accused Asif Iqbal Tanha. According to the police, this number was used to communicate messages by students of the Jamia Coordination Committee (JCC), who too were charged for instigating the February riots in protest to the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) passed by Parliament in December last year.Meanwhile, Khalid, on Monday alleged before chief metropolitan magistrate Dinesh Kumar that his custody in connection to a case related to riots at Khajuri Khas was extended “illegally” and “mechanically”.Khalid was arrested in this case on October 1. Appearing for Khalid, his counsel Sanya Kumar told the court that since the beginning of his arrest in the case, his lawyers were not given copies of the remand applications and denied information about when and before which judge he would be produced.“Time and time again the remand was mechanically granted. Case diaries were not signed, we were not supplied a copy of the remand application,” she claimed.The application by advocates Trideep Pais and Kumar, sought directions to the investigating agency as well as the jail authorities to provide a copy of the application seeking remand/extension of remand to Khalid’s counsels in advance to the proceedings.He was sent to police custody for three days and on October 4, he was sent to judicial custody for 14 days which was extended on October 18 and further on October 31.Khalid’s counsel further alleged that despite repeated requests to inform them about where those remand proceedings would happen and before which judge, the police only informed them that it would happen at Tis Hazari district courts complex and around 11 am and did not give any further information.Kumar then got the details from the court.The plea had sought directions to the police to intimate the counsels about the time, place and manner of all future remand proceedings for Khalid one day in advance.The court has put up the matter for further hearing on November 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/court-defers-taking-cognizance-of-riots-conspiracy-charge-sheet-against-khalid-imam/story-HphgT49sJMH6AaatiWESjO.html
24-11-2020||Delhi||Air quality slips in Delhi, another round of bad air in coming week likely||The air quality in 21 of Delhi’s 35 monitoring stations on Monday dipped to the ‘very poor’ zone while one station entered the ‘severe’ category as the city’s overall pollution level continued to slide further to the far end of the ‘poor’ category. According to weather scientists and experts, Delhi may be in for another spell of bad air in the coming week with local pollutants and unfavourable meteorological conditions largely behind the spike in pollution levels.On Monday, the overall average air quality index (AQI) was 295 in the poor zone, a few notches from ‘very poor’ (301). The air quality has started to plunge again after a week of remaining in the lower to middle end of the poor zone and experiencing a day of ‘moderate’ air quality. After Diwali, rainfall and good winds had helped clear pollutants and improved the air from ‘severe’ to ‘poor’.An analysis of AQI data shows that within 10 days, Delhi is on the verge of ‘very poor’ air again. Previously, this month, Delhi saw ‘very poor’ air on November 13, with an average AQI reading of 339. Delhi’s AQI fluctuated between ‘very poor’ to ‘severe’ and ‘moderate’ in a matter of five days between November 13 and 17. From an AQI of 435 on November 15, which is in the severe zone, the air quality improved to poor (221) on November 16 and moderate (171) last Tuesday. Delhi saw its longest spell of ‘severe’ air quality this season with the average AQI remaining in the upper reaches of the category for six consecutive days during November 5-10. Before this, in 2016, the capital breathed severe air quality for six straight days. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data showed that on Monday, the air in the Jahangirpuri monitoring station was in the ‘severe’ zone (404). Alipur, Anand Vihar, Bawana, Ashok Vihar, Narela, Dwarka sector-8, Mathura Road, Chandni Chowk, DTU, Karni Singh Shooting Range, ITO, Mundka, Nehru Nagar, Okhla, Patparganj, Vivek Vihar, Wazirpur, R K Puram, Rohini, Sonia Vihar, and Punjabi Bagh showed AQI readings in the upper end of the ‘very poor’zone. These include the 13 pollution hots pots across the city.Government agencies have forecast deterioration in air quality from November 24. V K Soni of the environment monitoring research centre at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said with wind speed reducing and a dip in temperature, air quality is likely to deteriorate. “While stubble fires have almost reduced to negligible, change in weather conditions and local emissions are affecting air quality . With a western disturbance affecting the Western Himalayan region, winds will become calmer and may result in a plunge in air quality,” said Soni. The average wind speed on Monday reduced to 5-6kmph from 15-16 kmph over the past few days. “Air quality may improve slightly only around November 27-28 when wind speed is likely to pick up again after the passing of the western disturbance,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, IMD’s head of regional weather forecasting centre.Vivek Chattopadhyay, senior programme manager, Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) said Delhi is likely to have another spell of bad air in the coming week. “Our daily analysis has shown particulate matter concentrations are again rising gradually, as good weather conditions have almost retreated. Action on hot spots is still lacking as unpaved roads and local waste burning has been observed in many areas. Vehicular emissions are the same as public transport is still not running to full capacity. Te government needs to tackle all sources of pollution equally, as these come into play when the peak stubble burning season is over,” he said. According to Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) officials, measures are in effect, including sprinkling water at key stretches, mechanised sweeping of roads and patrolling of hot spots. “We are monitoring the air quality on a regular basis. Teams are on ground to check local pollution sources such as waste burning and industrial fumes,” said a senior DPCC official, who did not wish to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/air-quality-slips-in-delhi-another-round-of-bad-air-in-coming-week-likely/story-D1Cxp8uIgRLQBkHaql3IfK.html
24-11-2020||Delhi||No word yet on admission to entry-level classes, parents worried||With no information on admissions to entry-level classes to the capital’s 1,700 private schools for the 2021-22 academic session, parents planning to get their children enrolled this year are now left concerned. The process for admissions to entry-level classes – nursery, kindergarten, and class 1 – normally begins between November and December every year.Simran Kaur, a resident of northwest Delhi’s Rani Bagh area, said the family was trying to get their three-year-old daughter enrolled into a school this year. “For nursery, the upper age limit is four. We are worried that if our child is not admitted this year, she will lose a year. Though we don’t want her to physically go to school till the vaccine for Covid-19 is available, we do want her to join online classes at least,” said the 26-year-old homemaker.Sumit Vohra, who runs a portal on nursery admissions, said they have been receiving queries from parents on a daily basis. “The parents are concerned and have been asking if there are any tentative dates for admissions since other NCR cities such as Ghaziabad, Noida and Gurgaon have initiated the process for conducting nursery admissions. The Delhi government could release a notice to assuage the concerns of these parents,” he said.Echoing Kaur’s concerns, Vohra said not conducting admissions this year was not feasible since there is an upper age limit for entry-level classes. Last year, the minimum ages for nursery, kindergarten and class 1 was three, four, and five years while the maximum limit for the categories was four years, five years, and six years, respectively.“Not all schools provide online forms and in some cases parents have to visit the schools for the forms. Schools ask parents to submit hard copies of documents. Doing this would be challenging during the pandemic. A mechanism should be put in place to address this,” Vohra said.A senior official from the Directorate of Education said it was too early to comment on the matter due to the Covid-19 situation. The Capital recorded 6,746 new cases of Covid-19 and 121 deaths on Sunday taking the total number of fatalities to 8,391. On Monday, 4,454 new cases and 121 deaths were recorded.“Generally, the process for nursery admissions to the capital’s private schools starts around November-end and so far there has been no discussion on this because we are dealing with an unprecedented situation. More clarity on this will emerge in the coming few weeks,” the official said, adding students who took admission in entry-level classes in the 2020-21 academic session are yet to attend offline classes.“We are waiting for clarity on when schools can reopen and the decision for admission will be taken on the basis of that. There has been no discussion over how and when admissions will be conducted,” the official said.Riyaz Ahmed, an HR professional and a resident of New Friends Colony, is trying to get her daughter enrolled this year. He said the education department should consult parents before deciding the schedule and work on alternative options as well.“We are worried about sending our children to school but there has been no conversation with parents on this so far. We are not left with any option but to apply as competition for getting a nursery seat in Delhi is very stiff. Due to the pandemic, we are worried about how institutions will adapt to the new normal and figure out logistics of how they will teach. We are also wondering how the children will travel to school once if they reopen,” he said.Admissions under the economically weaker section/disadvantaged groups category for 2020-21 are yet to be completed. The education department has announced it will call fresh online applications from EWS/DG aspirants for 838 vacant seats. The last date of submission for these applications is November 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-word-yet-on-admission-to-entry-level-classes-parents-worried/story-hwSkqlQYcfpKoJ6h8Fj1xM.html
24-11-2020||Delhi||Man, son killed in north-east Delhi, personal enmity suspected||A 50-year-old scrap dealer who also ran an NGO, and his 22-year-old son, were murdered near their home in north-east Delhi’s Nand Nagri on Monday morning, police said. The father, Zulfiqar Qureshi, was shot in his head, and his son Janbaaz Qureshi was stabbed with a sharp weapon by two-three men when they were walking back home after offering namaaz at a local mosque, Ved Prakash Surya, deputy commissioner of police (north-east) said.While the police were yet to arrest the attackers, the DCP said Janbaaz was able to identify the suspects before his death. “It was a murder over personal enmity. We hope to nab the suspects soon,” the DCP said. The DCP said Zulfiqar had multiple criminal cases against him though there were none in recent years. “His son, Janbaz, too had a few criminal cases against him and was arrested for motorcycle theft two months ago,” said the DCP. The officer, however, couldn’t immediately comment on the nature of those alleged criminal cases. The families of the dead men said Zulfiqar was an RTI activist and an active member of the Bharatiya Janata Party.“He would file RTIs against scrap dealers involved in vehicle thefts as well as those involved in illegal construction and other activities. He was an active member of the BJP and ran an NGO that worked for the environment,” said Zulfiqar’s niece, Parveen, adding FIRs against the father-son duo were bogus and motivated. The police said they did not have any information about his RTI activism or his political affiliation. The police as well as the victims’ relatives said he was assigned a personal security officer (PSO) by Delhi Police due to perceived threats to his life.“There were attempts on his life in the past because of his RTI activism. So, he was given security. But the security officer’s duty was between 8am and 8pm,” said Zulfiqar’s brother, Sarfaraaz. The double murder happened over an hour before the security officer reached and began his duty. “Zulfiqar and his three sons had visited the mosque near our home and had just finished their namaaz around 6.45am when three men attacked the father. They shot him in his waist, chased him in the street and then threw a tyre around him before shooting him in his head,” said Parveen. The DCP, however, said Zulfiqar was shot just once -- in his head -- and he died before he could be taken to a hospital. Zulfiqar’s eldest son, Janbaaz, who is preparing to get into a law college, tried to save him but he too was attacked. “They shot Janbaz in his waist before stabbing him. They smashed his head with pistol butt,” Parveen said. The DCP said it could not immediately be confirmed if Janbaaz too received bullet injuries. The suspects fled and the father-son duo was taken to a local hospital where Zulfiqar was declared brought dead. His son was referred to Safdarjung Hospital where he succumbed during treatment. “But before he died, Janbaaz told us the names of the suspects,” the DCP said. The victims’ relatives alleged the double murder was because of Zulfiqar’s RTI activism. Naveen Kumar, Delhi BJP’s media head, said, “He was an active member of the BJP, but he was not an office bearer.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-son-killed-in-north-east-delhi-personal-enmity-suspected/story-dcdiekz1MX7rEHKdYf7bMP.html
24-11-2020||City||Customs bust gold smuggling racket on trains||Delhi Customs have found that gold is being smuggled into Delhi on trains which helps them avoid strict surveillance at airports, officials said. The racket was exposed after the Customs busted a cartel, members of which have told officials that at least 65kg gold from Dubai and Hong Kong has been brought into the country through Myanmar and Bangladesh border.Officers say rail routes are becoming popular among smugglers as they not only provide them with a safe, surveillance free passage but also allowed them to switch the handlers, carriers and routes, to avoid being tracked.Deputy commissioner customs (preventive) Hemant Rohilla said this is one of the biggest gold smuggling cartels unearthed by Customs in Delhi that was operating via trains. The syndicate was busted last week on Thursday when following a tip-off about smuggling of 6kg gold, Customs sleuths arrested a 37-year-old man at New Delhi Railway Station.“Based on intelligence inputs, we intercepted the man who had reached Delhi on Rajdhani Express. His baggage check led to the recovery of 6.3 kg gold worth Rs3.26 crore. The gold was foreign marked and the stamp mark had been scrubbed off. The gold was in form of bars. Two days of follow up searches and intelligence further led us to a 45-year-old man who was arrested from his hideout in old Delhi on Saturday night where he was waiting to receive the consignment,” Rohilla said.The deputy commissioner said, “They revealed that there is a larger cartel behind the supplies. The carrier told us that within past two-three months he has made 15 trips from Howrah and other nearby areas in West Bengal to Delhi, carrying different quantities of smuggled gold. The duo has confessed to have smuggled at least 65 kg gold worth over Rs30 crore till date,” he said.He further said, “The men disclosed that the gold consignments originate usually in Dubai and Hong Kong and have foreign markings on them which are scrubbed off before the gold is pushed into India at Bangladesh and Myanmar borders. They said they received the gold in Howrah and boarded trains to cities like Kanpur, Moradabad or Bareilly. They then changed train to reach Delhi. Many a times, the handlers and carriers were also switched on the way to avoid tracking by authorities,” Rohilla said, adding that the names of the two arrested men cannot be disclosed as the investigations are in progress.Customs officials also found that the carrier even used Covid special trains to smuggle the gold as indicated by the tickets recovered from the arrested duo.Another Customs officer, who wished not to be named, said the smugglers said they preferred trains over flights as it was considered a safer option.“They said the railway stations do not mandate x-ray scanning of luggage as at airports almost zeroing their chance to be caught before boarding. They also said that they often changed stations and trains in between to avoid suspicion or tracking by any law enforcing agency. This also helped them frequently change their travel history and avoid any suspicion,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/customs-bust-gold-smuggling-racket-on-trains/story-DR4rkQMGkaxKH1w90XKH3I.html
24-11-2020||Delhi||Very few seats available in DU’s special cut-off||Delhi University on Monday released a special cut-off for admission to merit-based undergraduate (UG) courses to fill up vacant seats in colleges. Only those applicants who could not take admissions in the previous cut-offs will be eligible to apply under the special list released on Monday.Very few seats in the general category are available for popular courses such as BA (Honours) in English, Economics and Political Science. Candidates from the reserved categories can, however, apply to a handful of colleges where seats are still vacant. For instance, in Miranda House, one seat is available in Economics in the general category (97.75%), six seats in scheduled caste (91.25%), four in scheduled tribe (90%), and nine seats in the other backward classes category (94.75%).In Hindu College, admission under the general category is open for one seat in Sociology while most of the other courses are accepting admissions in some reserved categories for very few seats. In Aryabhatta college, admissions under general category are mostly closed for all courses except for one seat in Psychology (Hons) at 96% and eight seats for BCom at 94.50%.At Indraprastha College for Women, four seats are available for Political Science in the general category at 96.50% while 10 seats are available for the same course in the SC category (91%) and eight seats each in the OBC and EWS categories at 93% and 91%, respectively. For Sri Venketeswara College, admissions under the general category are closed for all courses except BSc (Hons) in Physics at 96.33%. Admissions under reserved categories are, however, open for all courses.Unlike previous cut-offs where students got a three-day window to apply, admissions under this cut-off will begin 9 am on Tuesday and will continue till 1pm Wednesday. The last date of payment for students applying under the special cut-off is November 27. Students will be given admission on the basis of the number of available seats. Students who cancelled their admission under fifth cut-off will not be eligible to apply under the special cut-off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/very-few-seats-available-in-du-s-special-cut-off/story-Bcsim1x3ObIzC51eH3x6RI.html
24-11-2020||Pune||Pune district reports 528 Covid-19 positive cases, 2 deaths on Monday||Pune district on Monday reported 528 fresh Covid-19 positive cases and two deaths as per the state health department. Monday’s data takes the progressive positive count in the district to 3,46,961. Of these total cases, 3,22,092 have recovered, 7,324 were declared dead and 17,545 are active cases. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) reported 214 fresh Covid-19 positive cases, taking the total Covid-19 cases to 1,77,701 and one death in the last 24 hours till Monday evening took the death toll to 4,167. PCMC reported 150 fresh positives taking the total Covid-19 cases to 87,483 and recorded zero deaths in the last 24 hours till Monday evening. The death toll in PCMC is 1,242. Pune rural reported 164 fresh positives taking the total Covid-19 cases to 81,777 and one death in the last 24 hours till Monday evening, took the death toll to 1,882.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-district-reports-528-covid-19-positive-cases-2-deaths-on-monday/story-fqM4bcEI3BnW2q51d99FFJ.html
24-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Man rams car through Safdarjung Tomb gate; he was drunk, says police||A Maruti Swift car rammed through the main gates of Safdarjung Tomb early Monday and crashed into a stone information board on the monument’s premises. Police said the driver, a 32-year-old man, was inebriated. No one was injured, senior officers said.The accident took place around 3am. According to the police, it was reported that a car approaching from Lodhi Road rammed through the main entrance gate of the Safdarjung Tomb. The car was speeding and it further went on to hit the stone information board.The structure and the car both were damaged. A police team arrived at the spot and identified the driver as Vijay Bahri, a resident of DDA flats in Ram Pur, Delhi. He was found to be inebriated.Deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi) Eish Singhal said prima facie, it looks like the man lost control of his car as he was drunk. “No one was injured in the accident. The driver was taken to RML hospital but he also didn’t sustain any serious injury. A case has been registered for negligent driving and under sections of Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act and under Motor Vehicle Act. There was no damage to the tomb,” Singhal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-rams-car-through-safdarjung-tomb-gate-he-was-drunk-say-police/story-B8Q6xTZK65AFN9ZG5eh0vJ.html
24-11-2020||Pune||Schools reopen in rural Pune||Schools and colleges for classes 9 to 12 reopened in the rural areas of Pune district on Monday for the first time since the coronavirus outbreak started in March. Educational institutions in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad civic areas continue to be shut till December 13 and November 30 respectively.Ganpat More, primary education officer, Pune Zilla Parishad, said, “With the district administration’s permission, some schools reopened on Monday. Attendance for students is not compulsory and as parents are still worried about Covid-19 infection, the attendance report was not overwhelming. Till now, 6,565 teachers and non-teaching staff have undergone Covid-19 tests and 29 tested positive. The tests of the remaining teachers will be completed soon and then, they will be joining school. We will be taking daily review of Covid tests and till December 1, we will try to start 100 per cent schools in Pune district. We hope that the number of students will increase gradually.” Anuja Mujumle, a class 9 student, was elated to attend classes at school after almost eight months. “I had been preparing to attend school since Sunday. I arranged my school uniform, packed my bag with subject books and notebooks and most importantly carried my facemask and hand sanitiser with me. My parents had given strict instructions regarding Covid-19 safety as to how to attend the classes. Our teachers too are taking all precautions. So, I feel safe to attend physical classes rather than online ones,” said Anuja, a student of Shivbhumi High School and Junior College located in Khed Shivapur. Just like Anuja, hundreds of other students from rural parts of the Pune district enthusiastically attended physical classes at their respective schools on Monday. HT visited some of the schools in the rural parts of Pune on Monday and reviewed the safety arrangements in place by the school administration. While some schools had good attendance, other schools reported low presence of students. “We have been preparing for physical classes to start since the past one week. We have a staff of 60 teachers and non-teaching members, who underwent the Covid-19 test. Only those with a negative Covid-19 report have been allowed to come to school. Also, for every student it is compulsory to bring their parent’s permission letter to attend the classes. Today before starting classes, we sanitised all the classrooms and in each class only half the number of students, 30, were called in. So, each student will be called every alternate day to attend school classes and we are conducting classes only for English, Science and Mathematics subjects,” said VR Kondhare, principal of Shivbhumi High School and Junior College. Ganesh Garad, a student of class 10, said, “I used to attend online lectures started by schools since June, but I would hardly understand anything. Also, there were mobile network issues in our village, so I am happy that physical classes have begun. I don’t want to fail in SSC this year and want to secure good marks. For that, classroom teaching is necessary.” Shivbhumi School conducted classes for students of class 11 and 12 between 8am and 10.30am on Monday following all Covid-19 safety protocols. Students of class 9 and 10 attended classes between 12pm and 2.30pm. On arrival, all students were thermally screened, their oxygen levels were checked, and classrooms were deep sanitised. Social distancing was also maintained in the seating arrangements. Wearing a face mask was compulsory. Parents of some of the students came to the school to check the safety arrangements in place and speak to the teachers regarding their concerns. Sharing of water bottles and food has also been prohibited on the school premises.Prof SA Kadam, principal of Mahatma Jyotiba Phule High School and Junior College at Shindewadi, Velu village, said, “As it was the first day of schools reopening, the number of students coming to the classes was less. There is still a fear amongst parents to send their child to school and we cannot force anyone. Today, only safety instructions were taught to students. We will begin our subject classes from Tuesday.” Savita Chavan, a parent who had come to drop her daughter to school, said, “We are happy that schools are restarting, but at the same time there is a constant fear of infection. I have instructed my daughter to follow all the safety instructions in the school and just concentrate on studies.” On record- Total number of schools in Pune district – 1,246 - Schools which restarted classes on Monday – 215 - Number of teachers – 11,033 - Non-teaching staff – 4,821 - Total number of students - 2,38,041 - Students who attended classes on Monday – 9,433||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/schools-reopen-in-rural-pune/story-bepz6FczMdHUzqlUCKfVyM.html
24-11-2020||Pune||Yerawada Central Jail tops revenue earnings in the state: Report||The Yerawada prison department has topped the revenue earnings in the state for 2018-2019 fiscal year with an aggregate earning of Rs 5.81 crore, according to the annual report released by the state prisons department, Maharashtra Prisons Statistics. The report published by the office of additional director general of police (prisons department and corrections service), Central Building in Pune, also highlights that the State Prisons Department has registered an income of Rs 27 crore for 2018-2019. Yerawada Jail is followed by Nashik jail in the list, which has posted an aggregate earning of Rs 5.43 crore while Nagpur jail came in third with Rs 4.06 crore as earnings. Kolhapur jail claimed the fourth position in the state with Rs 3.12 crore earnings. Maharashtra currently has sixty jails under its jurisdiction and jails manage to earn revenue by selling products made by inmates and providing services like bakery items, furniture, beddings, dry-cleaning and ironing centre, car and bike washing centre. According to the report, the state prisons department has posted a net profit of Rs 2.60 crore for the last fiscal. The recently released report gives details like the total number of prison inmates, among others. The total number of prison inmates is 36,366 and of them, 9,008 are convicts. Of them, 5,964 prisoners were given employment while 1,052 were provided with agriculture-based work. The prisoners were allotted work in the categories of handloom, technician, woodwork, tailoring, cobbler, bakery and ironsmith. The report said that skilled inmates are paid as per their professionalism and skill sets. A skilled prisoner is paid Rs 61 as daily wages, a medium skilled person gets Rs 55 while a novice is paid Rs 44 per day. The Maharashtra state prisons department carries out agricultural cultivation over 327 hectares in possession with 29 jails. The department has earned Rs 4.09 crore as revenue and earned a profit of Rs 1.65 crore after expenditure. Paithan jail stood first in the state with Rs 75 lakh earnings followed by Visapur at second and Yerawada at third positions in agro produce. Prisons department director general Surendra Pandey in his preface stated, “In 2018-2019, agricultural earnings have stood at Rs 4.09 crore while industries’ earnings at Rs 23.09 crore. If the inmates are able to hone their skills, then, they can get gainful employment in the private sector after their release from prison.” Revenue earnings of jails for 2018-2019 Yerawada Central Jail- Rs 5.81 crore Nashik jail- Rs 5.43 crore Nagpur jail- Rs 4.06 crore Kolhapur- Rs 3.12 crore Prisons department observations in the report - Yerawada Central Jail earnings were higher from technical and cobbler department - Prisoner Intelligence Unit established to find out malpractices in the jail and also to address prisoner grievances - Video calling facility started - Telemedicine facility initiated - Computerisation of entire department - CCTV surveillance established at all prisons in the state||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/yerawada-central-jail-tops-revenue-earnings-in-the-state-report/story-Fjdt4fVRnyR9dCmSxeAmGM.html
24-11-2020||Environment||Maharashtra: Panje tidal water blockade lifted, strengthens demand for bird sanctuary||The City Industrial Development Corporation Ltd. (Cidco) said it removed almost all its outlets of the sluice gates at Panje area in Uran as per orders of the Bombay high court (HC)-appointed state wetland and mangrove redressal committee.The area had been going dry over the past few months as the free flow of tidal water had been restricted by the sluice gates on one side and artificial bunds on the other. The HC-appointed panel on November 2, headed by the Konkan divisional commissioner Annasaheb Misal, directed the Raigad collector to ensure the flow of tidal water to the 289-hectare patch, a destination for hundreds of migratory birds, was not blocked.“We ensured the removal of 72 of 76 outlets of this sluice gate over the weekend. As per original orders, we were supposed to do this by September. However, owing to Covid-19-related issues, there was a delay. Directions have been issued to local residents and security officers set up by private companies that in no circumstances, tidal water should be blocked,” said Pramod Patil, nodal officer (environment), Cidco.Also Read: Biomedical waste incineration plant to shift out of Mumbai by Feb 2022The barrier was built in 1994-95 with help from Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay as a flood control mechanism. The gates can also be manually operated, allowing more water to be released if needed. It shuts automatically during high tide and opens up during low tide, remaining closed throughout the months of monsoon.Patil added that though areas in Panje had been handed over to private companies for the Navi Mumbai Special Economic Zone (NMSEZ), a proposed integrated industrial township, construction cannot commence until necessary permissions are taken by private companies. “This includes coastal regulation zone (CRZ) permissions and a nod for the Bombay HC if mangrove areas are involved,” he said.Nandkumar Pawar from environment group Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishthan (SEAP), which is campaigning against protection of mangroves areas and fishing zones in Uran, said, “Not all flap gates have been opened yet, and we need strictly monitor the area to ensure Cidco does not close the gates again. NMSEZ has also started an illegal landfill here and a dumper truck driver was caught red-handed dumping trash recently.”Environmentalists also expressed happiness as they had mounted a campaign to declare Panje as a bird sanctuary. They also want a compound wall around Panje to be demolished and free the bird sanctuary from all restrictions. “Panje has been under attack and birds have stopped coming here,” said BN Kumar, director, not-for-profit NatConnect Foundation.Environment groups alleged that both the sluice gates and the wall were illegal as those planning projects at Panje do not have permissions from the Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA), which is a prerequisite as the mangrove-filled area falls under CRZ-1. “The state government must be reminded that Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) had in 2015 obtained assurance from then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis that Panje would be protected as a bird sanctuary. However, Cidco has ignored this and drawn up a development plan for Dronagiri node covering Panje and other wetlands and mangrove zones,” said Tukaram Koli, a member of Uran fishing community forum Paaramparik Machhimar Bachao Kruti Samiti.In a fresh appeal before the state, Kumar said since the sluice gates had been lifted, the government should declare Panje a bird sanctuary.Member of the HC-panel Stalin D said they would be pursuing the matter to ensure all impediments in the way of tidal flushing are removed. “After relentlessly following up, finally Cidco has acted. There are more blockages made by local vested interests which are yet to be opened. If needed the committee members will personally visit the site to ensure that the tide water is not blocked,” he said.In 2015, Cidco had claimed that mangroves that had grown within their holding ponds (for high-tide water connected to sluice gates mainly at Panje, Karanje and Koparkhairane) were not protected under the coastal regulation zone (CRZ) notification since they were ‘inland mangroves’. A notification from the union environment ministry earlier this year stated that such mangroves also needed to be protected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/environment/maharashtra-panje-tidal-water-blockade-lifted-strengthens-demand-for-bird-sanctuary/story-vBYOID0XnBaPsNxRukRVmO.html
24-11-2020||World||Biden set to formally introduce his national security team||President-elect Joe Biden is set to formally introduce his national security team to the nation, building out a team of Obama administration alumni that signals his shift away from the Trump administration’s “America First” policies and a return to U.S. engagement on the global stage.The picks for national security and foreign policy posts include former Secretary of State John Kerry, who will take the lead on combating climate change. They’re slated to join Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris at an in-person event in Wilmington, Delaware, Tuesday afternoon, where they’ll each deliver their first remarks as Biden’s nominees.Outside the realm of national security and foreign policy, Biden is expected to choose Janet Yellen as the first woman to become treasury secretary. She was nominated by President Barack Obama to lead the Federal Reserve, the first woman in that position, and served from 2014 to 2018.Biden’s emerging Cabinet marks a return to a more traditional approach to governing, relying on veteran policymakers with deep expertise and strong relationships in Washington and global capitals. And with a roster that includes multiple women and people of color — some of whom are breaking historic barriers in their posts — Biden is fulfilling his campaign promise to lead a team that reflects the diversity of America.The incoming president will nominate longtime adviser Antony Blinken to be secretary of state; lawyer Alejandro Mayorkas to be homeland security secretary; Linda Thomas-Greenfield to be U.S. ambassador to the United Nations; and Jake Sullivan as national security adviser. Avril Haines, a former deputy director of the CIA, will be nominated as director of national intelligence, the first woman to hold that post.Thomas-Greenfield is Black, and Mayorkas is Cuban American.Mayorkas might pose the most difficult confirmation challenge from Biden’s early round of nominees.The Senate previously confirmed him in December 2013 by a party-line vote to be the deputy secretary of Homeland Security. The Senate was controlled by Democrats then, and all Senate Republicans voted against Mayorkas’ confirmation mainly because he was then under active investigation by the Obama-appointed DHS inspector general. At the time, according to the Senate Historian, it was unprecedented for the Senate to vote on a nominee who was under investigation.DHS Inspector General John Roth issued a report in March 2015 that found Mayorkas, as director of the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, appeared to give special treatment to certain individuals as part of the visa program which gives residency preference to immigrants who agree to invest in the US economy and create jobs.Sen. Marco Rubio, a Florida Republican, on Tuesday broadly slammed Biden’s picks as unworthy.“Biden’s cabinet picks went to Ivy League schools, have strong resumes, attend all the right conferences & will be polite & orderly caretakers of America’s decline,” Rubio tweeted.Those being introduced on Tuesday “are experienced, crisis-tested leaders who are ready to hit the ground running on day one,” the transition said in a statement. “These officials will start working immediately to rebuild our institutions, renew and reimagine American leadership to keep Americans safe at home and abroad, and address the defining challenges of our time — from infectious disease, to terrorism, nuclear proliferation, cyber threats, and climate change.”In the weeks ahead, Biden could also name Michèle Flournoy as the first woman to lead the Defense Department. Pete Buttigieg, the former Indiana mayor and onetime presidential candidate, has also been mentioned as a contender for a Cabinet agency.The Pentagon said Tuesday that Kash Patel, the chief of staff to the acting secretary of defense, is heading the department’s transition work. A transition task force has been assembled, led by Tom Muir, the head of the Pentagon office that provides administrative and management services to all Defense Department facilities in the Washington area. A Pentagon spokeswoman, Susan Gough, said the Pentagon is “in discussions on the next steps” with the Biden agency review team led by Kathleen Hicks.In making the choices public on Monday, Biden moved forward with plans to fill out his administration even as President Donald Trump refused to concede defeat in the Nov. 3 election, has pursued baseless legal challenges in several key states and worked to stymie the transition process.Trump said later Monday that he was directing his team to cooperate on the transition but vowed to keep up the fight. His comment came after the General Services Administration ascertained that Biden was the apparent winner of the election, clearing the way for the start of the transition from Trump’s administration and allowing Biden to coordinate with federal agencies on plans for taking over on Jan. 20.Beyond Rubio’s broadside, Biden’s nominations were generally met with silence on Capitol Hill, where the Senate’s balance of power hinges on two runoff races that will be decided in January.The best known of the bunch is Kerry, who made climate change one of his top priorities while serving as Obama’s secretary of state, during which he also negotiated the Iran nuclear deal and the Paris climate accord. Trump withdrew from both agreements, which he said represented a failure of American diplomacy in a direct shot at Kerry, whom he called the worst secretary of state in U.S. history.Blinken, 58, served as deputy secretary of state and deputy national security adviser during the Obama administration. He recently participated in a national security briefing with Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris and weighed in publicly just last week on notable foreign policy issues in Egypt and Ethiopia.Blinken served on the National Security Council during the Clinton administration before becoming staff director for the Senate Foreign Relations Committee when Biden was chair of the panel. In the early years of the Obama administration, Blinken returned to the NSC and was Biden’s national security adviser when Biden was vice president, then moved to the State Department to serve as deputy to Kerry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-set-to-formally-introduce-his-national-security-team/story-HobP2P3kIu8RD7FN0Z00iJ.html
24-11-2020||World||AstraZeneca must prove it won’t profit from Covid-19 vaccine: MSF||AstraZeneca must provide reassurance that it will not profit from its potential Covid-19 vaccine, non-governmental organisation Medecins Sans Frontieres (MSF) said on Tuesday, urging the company to make public its supply contracts.The British firm said on Monday its Covid-19 vaccine was 70% effective in pivotal trials and could be up to 90% effective, giving the world’s fight against the global pandemic a third new weapon that can be cheaper to make, easier to distribute and faster to scale-up than rivals.AstraZeneca has said it will not profit from sales of its vaccine while Covid-19 is considered a pandemic. The price of its candidate has been set at about $3 per dose, against at least four times more for other candidates.“MSF welcomes AstraZeneca’s commitment to sell the vaccine at a ‘no-profit’ price during the pandemic, but the reality is that it’s an empty promise unless we’re able to substantiate these important claims with data,” said Roz Scourse of medical group MSF, also known as Doctors Without Borders.The organisation urged AstraZeneca to disclose the contracts signed with governments for its vaccine, and said there could be clauses that limit the price until the company declares the end of the health emergency, which could be as early as July.AstraZeneca said it would look for international consensus on when the pandemic phase of Covid-19 was over, rather than a particular date.“From the outset, AstraZeneca’s approach has been to treat the development of the vaccine as a response to a global public health emergency, not a commercial opportunity,” an AstraZeneca spokesman said.“We continue to operate in that public spirit and we will seek expert guidance, including from global organisations as to when we can say the pandemic is behind us.”The GAVI vaccine alliance said Monday’s efficacy data was “positive news for the COVAX vision of equitable access” for vulnerable groups.It said the hundreds of millions of doses had been secured on behalf of COVAX, a procurement scheme co-led by the World Health Organization designed to secure rapid and fair global access to Covid-19 vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/astrazeneca-must-prove-it-won-t-profit-from-covid-19-vaccine-msf/story-JdRv9YPtJouOefMaosO4bM.html
24-11-2020||World||Janet Yellen set to become the first woman to head US treasury department||President-elect Joe Biden will name Janet Louise Yellen, the former chair of the US Federal Reserve, as his treasury secretary, adding another historic first to his emerging cabinet.Yellen will become the first woman to head the treasury department - she was the first woman to head the US Fed. Yellen served from 2014 to 2018; appointed by Barack Obama and replaced by Donald Trump with Jerome Powell.Biden’s firsts started with Kamala Harris, who is the first Black, woman, and American of Indian, South Asian and Asian descent to become US vice-president. Alejandro Mayorkas, a Cuban-American lawyer, will become the first Latino to head the department of homeland security, which runs immigration.Avril Haines, a former deputy director of the CIA (Central Intelligence Agency), is the first woman named to head the US intelligence community as director of National Intelligence. And John Kerry, the former secretary of state, will be the first special presidential envoy on climate to have a seat at the national security council.Biden’s incoming National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan is the youngest person named to the position yet, at 43.The remaining cabinet positions announced so far are Antony Blinken, a close and long-time aide of the president-elect, who will be secretary of state, and Linda Thomas-Greenfield, a 35-year foreign service veteran, who will be the next US ambassador to the UN.Biden has only announced a handful of his cabinet picks so far, and he and Harris will introduce them formally later on Tuesday. Remaining appointments, which will include defence, attorney general, health and a few others, will roll out possibly after the upcoming Thanksgiving holiday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/janet-yellen-set-to-become-the-first-woman-to-head-us-treasury-department/story-pvmLee2xHuVFLEptkoMkwL.html
24-11-2020||World||China’s economy returning to ‘proper’ range next year, says Li Keqiang||China will likely return to a more “proper” range of economic development next year, Premier Li Keqiang said, indicating a strong rebound in growth after this year’s pandemic slump.After taking a severe knock in the first quarter, the economy is recovering and set to post positive growth this year, Li said at a joint media briefing Tuesday alongside the leaders of six international economic institutions, including the International Monetary Fund and World Trade Organization.“We expect China’s economy will return to the proper range of development next year,” he said. “China’s macro policies will remain stable, effective, and sustainable.”Li reiterated China’s economic strategy of allowing consumption to play a leading role in driving growth, and gradually opening up to foreign investors. He said China doesn’t deliberately target a trade surplus, an issue that’s been a source a tension with the US.“We will absolutely not pursue a trade surplus,” Li said. “We will maintain equal importance for imports and exports. We want to achieve trade balance and sustainable development.”China recently laid out its five and 15-year plans for the economy, outlining an ambition to double the size of gross domestic product by 2035, with a focus on self-reliance in technology and boosting domestic consumption. The economy, the second-largest in the world, is the only major one tipped to expand this year -- by about 2%, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg -- after authorities brought the pandemic under control and began easing lockdown restrictions months ago.Strong ReboundAngel Gurria, secretary-general of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, said at the same briefing that China’s economy could expand about 8% in 2021, before easing to about 5%. Li didn’t give a forecast for growth.Kristalina Georgieva, managing director of the International Monetary Fund, said at the briefing that some countries may be losing momentum as they deal with new waves of virus infections. She added that vaccines and treatments should be made available to everyone.The other officials at the meeting with Li, held via videoconference, were: David Malpass, president of the World Bank, Alan Wolff, deputy director-general of the World Trade Organization, Guy Ryder, director-general of the International Labor Organization, and Randal Quarles, chairman of the Financial Stability Board.According to a separate government statement, Li said at the meeting that China will use reforms to promote the economy’s recovery and will continue its active fiscal and stable monetary policies. He also said China welcomes more countries joining the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership trade pact, which was signed earlier this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-s-economy-returning-to-proper-range-next-year-says-li-keqiang/story-VU7AtCsHcKhCHX7VlKkqqN.html
24-11-2020||World||Putin Can’t Take Russia’s ‘Safe’ Covid Vaccine, Kremlin Says||President Vladimir Putin told fellow world leaders last week that both of Russia’s Covid-19 vaccines, including one he championed as the world’s first inoculation against the disease, are safe and effective. That doesn’t mean he’s taken a jab.“We have not yet begun widespread vaccination and the head of state can’t take part in vaccination as a volunteer. It’s impossible,” Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters Tuesday, in response to a question on whether Putin had been inoculated. “The president can’t use an uncertified vaccine.”Developers of Russia’s flagship vaccine, Sputnik V, said Tuesday that initial testing showed it was 91.4% effective in preventing infections, although it has not yet published final results in a peer-reviewed journal. Among volunteers who started the vaccination process earlier, preliminary data indicated efficacy of over 95%, according to the Russian Direct Investment Fund.Russia has the world’s fifth-highest number of cases globally, passing 2 million last week. Putin announced the registration of Sputnik V in August and a second inoculation was approved in October, even as Phase 3 trials to establish safety and efficacy are still taking place.Read more | Sputnik V Covid-19 vacccine 95% effective, says RussiaPutin, 68, is in a higher risk category because of his age. The first group of volunteers aged 60 and over began vaccine trials on Oct. 28, state-run Tass news service reported last month, citing the doctor who is running the tests.Russia has already begun vaccinating medical workers, teachers and officials. By the end of the year, producers aim to make about 2.9 million doses, according to Deputy Prime Minister Tatyana Golikova.International deliveries will start in January and Russia plans to produce doses for 500 million people abroad in 2021, according to an RDIF statement. Russia plans to provide the vaccine free to its own citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/putin-can-t-take-russia-s-safe-covid-vaccine-kremlin-says/story-DOt0bUnL2tORxDFk7ZVnzO.html
24-11-2020||World||Covid-19: Limited shipment of Sputnik V vaccine to other countries in December, key deliveries by Jan 2021, says Russia||Limited shipments of Sputnik V, the Covid-19 vaccine being developed by Russia will be done in December while key deliveries will be done in January 2021 to other countries, within the framework of existing contracts, Russian authorities said on Tuesday.“We are going to begin limited shipments for a number of countries in December but key delivery within the framework of the existing contract will be done in January if only those countries who recently provided their request-- we will be shipping in March 2021,” said Kirill Dmitriev, CEO of Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF).Dmitriev was responding to an online question on negotiations with drugs regulators of countries including India, Brazil, Singapore, Philippines and Korea.“It is important to know that we working with the regulatory agencies of all of the countries concerned to update them accordingly of all the data of Russian Federation clinical trials are very important for this data to be processed. We are in constant touch with regulatory authorities from over 50 countries on the data and results of our clinical trials preliminary and interim data has already been given to WHO and in a number of other international organizations,” Dmitriev said.“Hence, we working very closely with regulatory agencies from countries concerned and that since January we going to begin large volume of shipments and those countries that have been contracted recently the shipment will be by March 2021,” Dmitriev said at during a webinar held on Sputnik V covid19 vaccine.” It may be noted that Dr Reddy’s Laboratories (DRL) in India has collaborated with RDIF to conduct mid to late-stage human trials for the Sputnik V vaccine candidate in India.Earlier on Tuesday, the Gamaleya National Research Center for Epidemiology and Microbiology and RDIF declared results obtained during the second interim data analysis of the largest double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled phase III clinical trials in Russia involving 40,000 volunteers.“It has shown a 91.4 per cent efficacy on day 28 after the first dose while preliminary data from volunteers obtained 42 days after the first dose(corresponds with 21 days after the second dose) indicates an efficacy of the vaccine above 95 per cent,” stated press statement issued by RDIF.“Evaluation of efficacy was carried out among volunteers (n = 18,794) 28 days after receiving the first dose (seven days after the second dose) of the vaccine or placebo upon reaching the second control point,” it said.The interim research data will be published by the Gamaleya Center team in one of the leading international peer-reviewed medical journals.There were no unexpected adverse events during the trials. Monitoring of the participants is ongoing, said the statement.As per Russian scientists, the Sputnik V vaccine is based on a well-studied human adenoviral vector platform that has proven safe and effective with no long-term side effects in more than 250 clinical trials globally conducted during the past two decades - while the history of the use of human adenoviruses in vaccine development began in 1953.More than 100,000 people have received approved and registered drugs based on human adenoviral vectors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-limited-shipment-of-sputnik-v-vaccine-to-other-countries-in-december-key-deliveries-by-jan-2021-says-russia/story-9aQyFxojpxypGi8cQ9eTWM.html
24-11-2020||World||UNICEF gearing up for ‘mammoth operation’ to deliver Covid-19 vaccines globally||The UN Children’s Fund (UNICEF) is working with more than 350 global partners, including major airlines, shipping lines and logistics associations to deliver billions of COVID-19 vaccines around the world as soon as doses become available, in what is anticipated to be the largest and fastest operation ever undertaken of vaccine procurement and distribution.In order to kickstart preparations for delivering COVID-19 vaccines to over 92 countries, UNICEF together with the Pan American Health Organisation (PAHO) and the International Air Transport Association (IATA), briefed major global airlines last week on the expected capacity requirements and discussed ways to transport close to two billion doses of COVID-19 vaccines in 2021. This is in addition to the 1 billion syringes that need to be transported by sea-freight. More than 350 logistics partners, including air freight operators, shipping lines and global logistics associations participated in the virtual discussion last week, the agency said.“As work continues to develop COVID-19 vaccines, UNICEF is stepping-up efforts with airlines, freight operators, shipping lines and other logistics associations to deliver life-saving vaccines as quickly and safely as possible,” Director of UNICEF’s Supply Division Etleva Kadilli said. “This invaluable collaboration will go a long way to ensure that enough transport capacity is in place for this historic and mammoth operation. We need all hands on deck as we get ready to deliver COVID-19 vaccine doses, syringes and more personal protective equipment to protect front line workers around the globe. By protecting these workers, we are ultimately protecting the millions of children who depend on their critical services.” In the coming weeks, UNICEF is also assessing existing transport capacity to identify gaps and future requirements. The procurement, delivery and distribution of COVID-19 vaccines is anticipated to be the largest and fastest such operation ever undertaken. UNICEF is leading efforts to procure and deliver vaccines from manufacturers that have agreements with the COVAX Facility. In collaboration with PAHO, UNICEF will coordinate the purchase and delivery for 92 low- and lower middle-income economies as quickly and securely as possible.UNICEF said these efforts build on UNICEF’s longstanding efforts with the logistics industry to transport supplies around the world despite restrictions related to the pandemic. Since January, UNICEF has delivered more than USD190 million worth of Covid-19 supplies such as masks, gowns, oxygen concentrators and diagnostic test kits in support of countries as they respond to the pandemic.Last week, global drugmaker Pfizer and BioNTech said their Covid19 vaccine candidate is 95 per cent effective, including in adults over 65 years of age.Based on current projections, the companies expect to produce globally up to 50 million vaccine doses in 2020 and up to 1.3 billion doses by the end of 2021. The major announcement came just days after Moderna said its virus vaccine has an efficacy rate of 94.5 per cent. As the largest single vaccine buyer in the world, UNICEF normally procures more than 2 billion doses of vaccines annually for routine immunisation and outbreak response on behalf of nearly 100 countries. This unparalleled expertise includes the coordination of thousands of shipments with various cold chain requirements, making UNICEF an expert in supply chain management of temperature-controlled products, which is especially needed during this historic undertaking. To minimise disruptions to routine immunisation programmes due to the operations related to the Covid-19 vaccines and syringes, UNICEF and partners will continue to coordinate closely with logistics operators for timely delivery around the world, it said.“The support of governments, partners and the private sector will be paramount to transport vaccines for deadly diseases such as measles, diphtheria and tetanus, as well as for Covid-19, as efficiently as possible,” Kadilli said.Last month, UNICEF began a process to stockpile more than 1 billion syringes by 2021 to guarantee initial supply and pre-position in advance of Covid-19 vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/unicef-gearing-up-for-mammoth-operation-to-deliver-covid-19-vaccines-globally/story-dJqHXg99XV8BAcj74quogM.html
24-11-2020||World||Worried about catching Covid-19 from using cash? Chances are low, study finds||Those flightened about the use of banknotes amid the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) can expect some relief as a study by the Bank of England has found that the risk of catching the viral infection through currency notes is low, Bloomberg reported.The study considered the worst-case scenario where an infected person coughed or sneezed onto a note. The researchers found that the level of virus on the surface began to drop rapidly after an hour and after six hours, it had declined to 5% or less.It was also found that the chances of such direct contamination are relatively low as cash is typically stored securely in tills or wallets. The study added that the chances of an infected person touching notes would result in far lower levels of the virus.The report also highlighted that the survival of Sars-Cov-2 on the banknotes appears relatively less than other surface areas people come in regular contact with. “A few hours after infection, even at high doses, the levels and therefore associated risk of infection appear low,” the report said.“Further, the survival of virus on banknotes is no greater - indeed appears potentially less - than on reference surfaces representative of the many surfaces that people may come into contact with in their routine life,” the report stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/worried-about-catching-covid-19-from-using-cash-chances-are-low-study-finds/story-Tbrqv2ZRoHxEY3csKkUpiK.html
24-11-2020||World||Thanksgiving could make or break US coronavirus response||In Pennsylvania, if you’re having friends over to socialize, you’re supposed to wear a mask — and so are your friends. That’s the rule, but Barb Chestnut has no intention of following it.“No one is going to tell me what I can or not do in my own home,” said Chestnut, 60, of Shippensburg. “They do not pay my bills and they are not going to tell me what to do.”As governors and mayors grapple with an out-of-control pandemic, they are ratcheting up mask mandates and imposing restrictions on small indoor gatherings, which have been blamed for accelerating the spread of the coronavirus. But while such measures carry the weight of law, they are, in practical terms, unenforceable, and officials are banking on voluntary compliance instead.Good luck with that.While many are undoubtedly heeding public health advice — downsizing Thanksgiving plans, avoiding get-togethers, wearing masks when they’re around people who don’t live with them — it’s inevitable that a segment of the population will blow off new state and local restrictions and socialize anyway. Experts say that could put greater stress on overburdened hospitals and lead to an even bigger spike in sickness and death over the holidays.“When this started in early March, we weren’t staring at Thanksgiving and Christmas, and we didn’t have the disease reservoir that we have. And that, to me, is the biggest concern in the next few weeks,” said Dr. David Rubin, the director of PolicyLab at Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia. He called the risk of a Thanksgiving spike “extremely high.”“I think you’re seeing a lot of resistance here,” Rubin said. “I can’t speculate on what people are going to do, but I can say that to the degree that there isn’t a collective buy-in here, it sort of blunts the impact of the measures themselves.”The nation is averaging 172,000 new virus cases per day, nearly doubling since the end of October, according to Johns Hopkins University. Hospitalizations, deaths and the testing positivity rate are also up sharply as the nation approaches Thanksgiving.In response, elected officials are imposing restrictions that, with some exceptions, fall short of the broad-based stay-at-home orders and business shutdowns seen in the spring.Utah and Vermont have banned all social gatherings. So have local governments in Philadelphia and Dane County, Wisconsin. In Kentucky, no more than eight people from two households are permitted to get together; in Oregon, the gathering limit is six. California has imposed an overnight curfew. More states are requiring masks, including those with GOP governors who have long resisted them. The nation’s top health officials are pleading with Americans to avoid Thanksgiving travel.There’s some evidence the holiday will be quieter.Tamika Hickson, who co-owns a party rental business in Philadelphia, said Thanksgiving was a bust even before her city moved to prohibit indoor gatherings of any size.“Nobody’s calling,” Hickson said. “A lot of people lost a lot of loved ones, so they’re not playing with this. And I don’t blame them.”AAA projects Thanksgiving travel will fall by at least 10%, which would be the steepest one-year plunge since the Great Recession in 2008. But that still means tens of millions of people on the road. On social media, people defiantly talk about their Thanksgiving plans, arguing that nothing will stop them from seeing friends and family.More than 1 million people thronged U.S. airports on Sunday, according to the Transportation Security Administration — the highest number since the beginning of the pandemic.Dr. Debra Bogen, the health director for Allegheny County, Pennsylvania, which includes Pittsburgh, said that too many have been ignoring public health guidance and that the result has been unchecked spread of the virus.“For the past few weeks, I’ve asked people to follow the rules, curtail gatherings and parties, stay home except for essentials, and wear masks. I’m done asking,” Bogen said at a news conference, her frustration palpable. She announced a stay-at-home advisory that she said would turn into an order if people didn’t comply.Some people are underestimating the risk to themselves and their friends and families, said Baruch Fischhoff, a Carnegie Mellon University psychologist who has written about COVID-19 risk analysis and communications. Others doubt what health officials are telling them about the virus. And still others are simply irresponsible.Fischhoff said the lack of a cohesive national pandemic strategy; patchwork and seemingly arbitrary restrictions at the state and local level; and ineffective, politicized and contradictory public health messaging have sown confusion and mistrust.“It has been a colossal, tragic failure of leadership from the very beginning that we didn’t find the common ground in which we were working to protect the weakest among us. And once you’ve lost that coordination, you’re scrambling to get it back and that’s the tragic mess that we’re in now,” he said.In York County, Pennsylvania, 51-year-old retail worker Kori Jess tested positive for the virus last week. Long a mask skeptic, her personal experience with COVID-19 has changed her opinion — to a point. She said it’s appropriate to wear a mask when circumstances warrant, but she still doesn’t like the idea of government mandating them.“I’m so torn,” Jess said. “I like that people are fighting for their freedoms, but I understand why people are wearing masks.”In upstate New York, some sheriffs say they have no intention of enforcing Democratic Gov. Andrew Cuomo’s recent mandate barring private gatherings of more than 10 people.“There is no need to hide cars and sneak around during your attempt to gather with family. We are not going to exhaust our limited resources obtaining search warrants and counting the turkey eaters in your house,” Madison County Sheriff Todd Hood said in a Facebook post. He encouraged people in the largely rural area to use common sense to keep themselves safe.Kim Collins is among those planning a slimmed-down Thanksgiving. In a typical year, Collins would have as many as 20 people at her home in South Orange, New Jersey. This year, her extended family is staying put. “My husband’s having a hard time with the fact that his mom, who’s on her own, won’t be here,” she said.But Collins wasn’t optimistic that others would be so careful. She said plenty of people are going through “mental gymnastics” to justify their holiday get-togethers. “I think that a lot of people aren’t great at the honor system,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thanksgiving-could-make-or-break-us-coronavirus-response/story-JZbp7GdnJuKpSpTI5mu4qN.html
24-11-2020||World||Pak to bring all spy agencies under ISI chief in sign of military’s tightening grip||Pakistan government has decided to bring both military and civilian intelligence agencies under one umbrella to be headed by the chief of ISI, in what is being seen as one more step towards increasing the military’s control over key institutions in the country.After years of bickering over jurisdiction, Prime Minister Imran Khan approved the setting up of the National Intelligence Coordination Committee (NICC) on Monday, which will bring more than 20 spy agencies under the control of the Inter-Services Intelligence.Most democratically elected prime ministers have relied more on the civilian run Intelligence Bureau, with the exception of the present PM.Civilian governments have tried on more than one occasion to bring the military intelligence agencies under the purview of the PM or interior ministry. In 2008, the then Pakistan Peoples Party government even notified the placement of ISI and IB under the “administrative, financial, and operational control” of the interior ministry. But, the decision was reversed within 24 hours due to strong reservations from one of the organisations.Similar efforts were made during the PML-N government, when Chaudhry Nisar Ali Khan headed the interior ministry.Local media reported that the move, which is believed to be the brainchild of Lt Gen Faiz Hameed, the head of the ISI, is part of the long-awaited reform of the intelligence apparatus, which aims at clarifying the role of respective agencies, improving their coordination, and optimising their capabilities.Daily Dawn reported that one of the lessons learnt by the country during the fight against terrorism was that effective intel coordination was the weakest link in the entire effort. It importantly resulted in loss of critical time and in some cases, the agencies even could not piece together the information available to them. It was, moreover, a major hurdle to collective strategising.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pak-to-bring-all-spy-agencies-under-isi-chief-in-sign-of-military-s-tightening-grip/story-Z8j4Lb7ptJF3oWCEmKzL9K.html
24-11-2020||World||Europe hopes for reset, end to ‘damage control’ under Biden||German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas said Tuesday he hopes a reset of US-European relations under the Biden administration can end years in which Europe was mainly concerned with “damage control.” Maas’ counterpart from Portugal, which will have taken over the European Union presidency when Joe Biden is inaugurated, said Europe wants to be treated as a “full and equal partner” rather than an enemy of the US.Biden’s victory over President Donald Trump has been greeted with relief in Europe, where differences with the outgoing administration ranged from trade tensions to defense spending, relations with China and how to handle Iran’s nuclear program.Biden has made clear that he wants to “repair” the trans-Atlantic relationship, “and that is urgently necessary,” Maas said at a panel event in Berlin.Recent years, he said, were an exercise in “damage control” on international diplomacy and issues such as climate change. “Enough of that — with this, we are not doing justice to the challenges we face at present.” “The result, because the West wasn’t working together any more, was that in many issues a vacuum arose that was used by China or Russia,” Maas said.But he cautioned that the Europeans “will have to get out of our seats” to grasp new opportunities, and offer to do more themselves in their immediate neighborhood as part of what he has termed a “ new deal ” with the US Germany holds the EU’s rotating presidency until the end of December, when it will hand over to Portugal.Portuguese Foreign Minister Augusto Santos Silva called for new talks with the US on trade relations. And he noted that a major objection to the Trump administration’s approach was its language.“We were permanently treated by our American friends, and the Trump administration, not as friends and allies but as adversaries or even enemies,” he said. “And we were always asked to choose: either you are with us, the Americans, or you are with China.” “Of course we are with the Americans, but not as the minor partner, not as a follower ... it’s a question of being a full and equal partner of the United States,” Santos Silva said. Europe’s interests include good relations with all world regions, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/europe-hopes-for-reset-end-to-damage-control-under-biden/story-ZL4x5O82wdEAJQJvPJi6WN.html
24-11-2020||World||‘We’re drowning’: Covid cases flood hospitals in America’s heartland||Dr. Drew Miller knew his patient had to be moved. The vital signs of the 30-year-old Covid-19 victim were crashing, and Kearny County Hospital in rural Lakin, Kansas, just wasn’t equipped to handle the case. Miller, Kearny’s chief medical officer - who doubles as the county health officer - called around to larger hospitals in search of an ICU bed. With coronavirus cases soaring throughout Kansas, he said, he couldn’t find a single one.By the time a bed opened elsewhere the following day, the young man was near death. For a full 45 minutes, Miller and his staff performed chest compressions in a desperate attempt to save him.Somehow, Miller said, the patient regained a pulse, and was dispatched in an ambulance to the larger facility about 25 miles away. Miller then prayed with the family, whom he knew “very well” from Lakin, a town of just a few thousand people.“It’s truly a miracle he has survived,” Miller said.After pounding big U.S. cities in the spring, Covid-19 now has engulfed rural and small-town America, seeming to seep into the country’s every nook and cranny. According to Reuters’ interviews with more than a dozen medical care providers and public health officials in the nation’s heartland, many hospitals are severely lacking in beds, equipment and - most critically - clinical staff, including specialists and nurses.Covid-19 cases and hospitalizations are spiking nationally. But the Midwest - encompassing a dozen states between Ohio and the Dakotas - has been especially brutalized. Reported case rates are more than double that of any other region in the United States, according to the Covid Tracking Project, a volunteer-run data provider. From mid-June to mid-November, reported cases in the Midwest rose more than twentyfold.For the week ending November 19, North Dakota reported an average of 1,769 daily new cases per 1 million residents, according to the tracking project. South Dakota recorded nearly 1,500 per million residents, Wisconsin and Nebraska around 1,200, and Kansas nearly 1,000. Even in New York’s worst week in April - with business closed and panic gripping the public - the state never averaged more than 500 new cases per million people. California never topped 253.Hospital officials in the Midwest told Reuters they’re at capacity or nearly so. Most have tried to increase availability by repurposing wings or cramming multiple patients in a single room, and by asking staffers to work longer hours and more frequent shifts.Facilities like Kearny, known as “critical access” hospitals, weren’t made for this. Often sparsely funded, they mainly provide basic or emergency care to residents who live long distances away from bigger medical centers. Now, “we have to plan on being able to care for whomever comes in,” said Miller, whose specialty is family medicine.As cases spike in many conservative states and counties, medical workers say they often face a challenge just in convincing patients and local leaders that the disease should be taken seriously and isn’t a Democrat-perpetuated hoax.Such viewpoints flow from the top. President Donald Trump often has held shoulder-to-shoulder rallies in the Midwest and elsewhere and treated masks as a matter of personal choice. Although Trump was not re-elected, about two months remain in his tenure, with little sign of change in his coronavirus strategy, even as the crisis grows. The White House press office did not respond to a request for comment.Some medical officials and hospital staffers find it hard to reconcile laissez-faire policies with the sickness and suffering they see.“There’s a disconnect in the community, where we’re seeing people at bars and restaurants, or planning Thanksgiving dinners,” said Dr. Kelly Cawcutt, an infectious disease doctor at the University of Nebraska Medical Center. As health workers, she said, “we feel kind of dejected.”All told, Covid-19 has claimed more than 256,000 lives in the United States. The virus’ mortality rate has dropped as doctors have learned more about the disease, and vaccines developed by Moderna Inc, Pfizer Inc and others could hit the market early next year. In the meantime, smaller hospitals say they are employing the same drugs - such as remdesivir and dexamethasone - that big-city facilities do, but don’t have the same access to ICU equipment or specialized expertise.With low temperatures sending people indoors and holiday travel underway, doctors in the region aren’t expecting relief anytime soon.“I don’t think the worst is here yet,” Miller said.FRIENDS AND NEIGHBORSHospital leaders described demoralization among staffers struggling to reckon with overwork, grief and death.Shortages of staff, rather than beds, are the biggest single problem in many hospitals, the health officials said. “Just because you can take a cot and put it in a room doesn’t mean you have the appropriate nursing staff to care for a patient,” said Dr. Anthony Hericks, director of critical care with Avera Health in Sioux Falls, South Dakota.Nurses must observe Covid-19 patients even more closely than others, because of the potential for rapid decline, said Melisa Hazell, a critical care nurse at Hutchinson Regional Medical Center, in Hutchinson, Kansas. She said she recently recovered from Covid-19 herself, returning to work as soon as she was certain she wouldn’t spread the virus.“I was off for 12 days,” she said. “Was I mentally and physically ready to go back to work? No, but my teammates needed me.”Remote hospitals don’t keep a full staff on board in the best of times. They hire traveling nurses as the number of patients surge. Now it’s tough to find any available.Aya Health, a San Diego, California-based nurse staffing agency, was posting around 14,000 open positions in the spring, said April Hansen, an executive vice president. That number has now doubled, she said, and pay rates have shot up with demand.Mary Helland, a chief nursing officer with CommonSpirit Health in North Dakota, said she has put in requests for traveling nurses for the 11 critical access hospitals she oversees in North Dakota and Minnesota. But “bigger hospitals are using them all up,” she said.At Hutchinson Regional, which has 190 beds, Chief Nursing Officer Amanda Hullet has begun taking floor shifts, even though she had long since graduated to a desk job.The physical and emotional fatigue is constant, Hullet said, and even harder when the patient is a close friend or colleague.Hullet recalled the recent deaths of local couple Bill and Judy Mason, just weeks apart, from Covid-19. Judy had taught dance in town for decades, Hullet said, and her students included some of the hospital’s employees.Holly Thomas, 37, who is married to the couple’s grandson, said Judy was the “glue” that kept the family together.Referring to Covid-19 the Midwest, Thomas said “we sat by idly from March to August not seeing a whole lot.” Now she hears of about two deaths a day. “My PE teacher from high school and his wife died within 12 hours of each other, too,” she said.Hazell, the Hutchinson Regional nurse, encountered a patient who was a former bowling buddy. “He’s just fantastic,” she said. “Great heart, always willing to sit down and share a story or two.”He’s on a ventilator now, not doing well. “Over next week or two, there’s going to be some tough decisions,” she said. ‘FED UP’Medical workers told Reuters that denial about the disease is frustratingly common among public officials, community members and even patients.One patient at SSM Health in Janesville, Wisconsin, refused to believe Covid-19 was a serious threat, even as it consumed him, said Dr. Alison Schwartz, an infectious disease physician there. When he died, “the family did not want to admit this patient had died of Covid, because they didn’t believe Covid kills people,” she said.Some Midwestern states and local jurisdictions been loath to mandate masks or social distancing. Nebraska Governor Pete Ricketts, a Republican, went so far as to say he would not allow municipalities to impose mask mandates.Ricketts’ office declined to comment, but the governor said in a Nov. 13 press conference, “I’m against broad-based mandates in favor of educating people about how to use masks.”“Masks work, but they’re just one tool,” Ricketts said, urging people to also focus on keeping their distance and avoiding large gatherings.South Dakota Governor Kristi Noem has refused to mandate mask-wearing, and has not imposed restrictions on businesses or public gatherings, saying she would leave such matters to “individual responsibility.” In July, she hosted an Independence Day celebration with Trump at Mt. Rushmore, where the crowd was close together and many attendees were maskless.Doctors say trying to change such behavior can feel like a hopeless task. “Everyone [is] continuing to go about their lives,” Schwartz said, but “we sort of feel like we’re drowning.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/we-re-drowning-covid-cases-flood-hospitals-in-america-s-heartland/story-9NmumQixUHdlH72aOvK8VL.html
24-11-2020||World||UK family loses court battle in US diplomatic immunity case||The parents of a British teen who was killed in a car crash lost a court battle with the UK government Tuesday over whether their son’s alleged killer, an American woman, had diplomatic immunity.The family has been seeking justice for 19-year-old Harry Dunn, who died after his motorbike crashed into a car driven on the wrong side of the road outside a US airbase in central England last August.The car’s driver, Anne Sacoolas, left for the US several weeks after the collision. Officials said she was entitled to diplomatic immunity because her husband worked at the airbase.Sacoolas, 43, was charged in December with causing death by dangerous driving, but the US State Department rejected a request to extradite her to Britain to face trial.Dunn’s parents, Charlotte Charles and Tim Dunn, launched the court case to argue that Britain’s Foreign Office wrongly decided Sacoolas had diplomatic immunity.But two judges rejected that Tuesday, ruling that the American “enjoyed immunity from UK criminal jurisdiction at the time of Harry’s death.”The teen’s mother said she was determined to continue finding justice for her son. She was backed by British Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab, who said he stands with the family.“We’re clear that Anne Sacoolas needs to face justice in the UK, and we will support the family with their legal claim in the US,” Raab said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-family-loses-court-battle-in-us-diplomatic-immunity-case/story-budjH1isGCID7UbhutiCKK.html
24-11-2020||World||EU, other donors step up with funds to help Afghanistan||The European Union and other donors offered new funding for Afghanistan on Tuesday, as a UN official declared now is “not the time to walk away” from years of hard work in trying to build peace and stability in a poor country where Taliban fighters have made inroads against the internationally-backed government.A largely virtual, one-day pledging conference in Geneva, co-hosted by Finland, drew representatives from over 70 countries in the first such event in four years. It comes as the COVID-19 crisis has commanded worldwide attention, and the virus outbreak in Afghanistan has compounded persistent ills like corruption and extremist violence.Countries like Britain, the Netherlands and Canada stepped forward with hundreds of millions of dollars’ worth of pledges for Afghanistan as the session got under way, after speeches from top officials like Afghan President Ashraf Ghani and UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, who hailed the country’s “ambitious agenda for development and reform.”“The United Nations stands with the people of Afghanistan on the path toward peace, development and self-reliance,” Guterres said, expressing hope that donor pledges will “translate into real progress and concrete improvements for the people of Afghanistan.”The European Union pledged 1.2 billion euros ($1.43 billion) in assistance to Afghanistan over the next four years, but like many others made its support conditional on the strife-torn country’s commitment to democracy, the rule of law, human rights and gender equality.“Afghanistan’s future trajectory must preserve the democratic and human rights gains since 2001, most notably as regards women’s and children’s rights,” EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said. “Any attempt to restore an Islamic emirate would have an impact on our political and financial engagement.”The conference came amid a complex situation in Afghanistan, 19 years after an international coalition led by the United States toppled the Taliban government that supported al-Qaida. Taliban rebels and the Afghan government are currently taking part in peace talks in Doha, Qatar, and the Trump administration recently announced a further drawdown of U.S. forces in Afghanistan.Deborah Lyons, the UN secretary-general’s special envoy for Afghanistan, said the country was facing “a time of unprecedented opportunity but also deep uncertainty and rising anxiety,” and said Afghans were committed to preserving the gains of recent years.“But they will need the ongoing support of the international community: political, financial, and technical,” Lyons said. “Now is not the time to walk away.”Ghani touted a strategic plan for Afghanistan.“A new Afghanistan has emerged over the past two decades, and with it, an entirely new set of expectations from our citizens,” he said, acknowledging “lessons learned” from abroad and the development of a robust civil society and free press.“The main theme of our development agenda is to meet these new expectations by doing much more with much less in the face of daunting challenges,” he said.Statistics in Afghanistan are still grim after decades of international help. The poverty level during the pandemic has shot up to 70% — up from 54% last year. Despite billions of dollars that have poured into the country in the last two decades, more than half the population lives on $1.14 a day.A U.S. watchdog said over $19 billion of U.S. money alone had been lost to abuse, fraud and waste.Lyons has said that despite some progress, Afghanistan remains one of the worst places in the world to be a woman or a child. She has criticized a sharp rise in casualties in fighting, both from Taliban assaults and U.S. and Afghan bombing raids.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-other-donors-step-up-with-funds-to-help-afghanistan/story-jK53vkPm8ivec8lHD4A5NO.html
24-11-2020||World||Five elderly people returning from India killed in road mishap||At least five elderly people, returning from India, were killed and six others injured on Tuesday when the vehicle in which they were travelling fell off a hilly road in western Nepal, police said.There were 11 passengers, all senior citizens, in the jeep which fell 100 metre from a hilly road in Dasharathchand Municipality in Baitadi district.All the victims were returning from India after receiving their pension from their office after retirement, police said.The injured passengers have been admitted to Baitadi district hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/five-elderly-people-returning-from-india-killed-in-road-mishap/story-tLRSg7Zh5IJtZwsOdaxzQM.html
24-11-2020||World||China likely inducting more fighter jets for western areas amid India standoff||China is likely commissioning more squadrons of a multirole strike fighter on the border with India, Chinese state media has indicated for the first time, as the militaries of the two countries dig in and deploy latest weaponry along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) amid the ongoing border faceoff.The People’s Liberation Army’s (PLA) western theatre command (WTC) – which is in-charge of the LAC – is said to be commissioning the J-16 fighter aircraft in the country’s western regions.It appears to be part of WTC’s efforts to upgrade weaponry and logistics for its forces deployed along the LAC.“A brigade attached to the PLA WTC Air Force recently conducted a confrontational air-to-air combat exercise in order to examine and enhance the unit’s comprehensive combat capability,” the state-backed nationalist tabloid Global Times reported citing an article on the official WeChat account of the PLA WTC.Also Watch l How can India counter China-Pakistan joint ‘mission’ amid Ladakh tension? The jets were being commissioned to “better safeguard China’s territorial integrity in the country’s western regions”.“This brigade is in a key period of switching to use the J-16 heavy fighter jets, and the goal is to finish the process by the end of the year,” the report said.The J-16 is a third-plus generation fighter jet domestically manufactured by China.The reports did not mention the numbers of the fighter jets to be commissioned in the western sector; or which fighters they would be replacing.Both Indian and Chinese militaries have deployed troops and weaponry besides strengthening infrastructure in border areas along LAC amid the worst boundary tension with China in decades in eastern Ladakh, where soldiers from the two countries have been locked in a faceoff since May.The Indian Air Force is operating five newly bought Rafale fighter jets in the Ladakh region.Several rounds of diplomatic and military-level talks have failed to resolve the situation and disengage troops.The J-16 is modelled on a Russian fighter jet series but fitted with Chinese equipment.The fighter aircraft is a twin-engine, twin-seat multi-role fighter jet that is also capable of air-to-air combat.It made its debut during the Army Day parade on July 30, 2017 at the Zhurihe military training base in North China’s Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region.“Although it uses the classic Russian Su-27 aerodynamic design, everything inside is Chinese, including the WS-10 Taihang engines, an active array radar system and a new generation infrared observation and aiming system,” the WAC report, quoted by Global Times, said.The J-16 is reportedly capable of carrying at least eight tonnes of weapons.Although the J-20 is China’s more advanced fighter jet, the PLA Air Force still needs the J-16 as the two types of fighter jets can complement each other, Chinese military analysts had said earlier.The fighter jet is painted with the latest version of “low observable coatings,” which experts said are developed to lower the chance of the warplanes being detected by radar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-likely-inducting-more-fighter-jets-for-western-areas-amid-india-standoff/story-pKiuj1xJaL8tZ1YwnoBPyM.html
24-11-2020||World||UK cuts quarantine for international arrivals to 5 days from Dec 15||The UK announced reducing the current mandatory 14-day quarantine for international passengers to five days from December 15 if a test taken five days after arrival proves negative, a move welcomed by the struggling tourism and airline sectors as being “long overdue”.Transport secretary Grant Shapps said that passengers arriving into England from countries not on the government’s travel corridor list will have the option to take the test after five days of self-isolation, with a negative result releasing them from the need to isolate.Under the plan called ‘Test to Release’, officials said passengers arriving into England by plane, ferry or train should book their test before they travel; must complete a passenger locator form; and will still need to self-isolate for five days before taking the test.Shapps said: “Our new testing strategy will allow us to travel more freely, see loved ones and drive international business. By giving people the choice to test on day 5, we are also supporting the travel industry as it continues to rebuild out of the pandemic.”The test will need to be booked at the traveller’s expense from an approved list of providers. Those choosing not to take a test when arriving from a non-exempt country must continue to follow the current self-isolation requirements of 14 days.Officials said the update is based on advice from a consortium of expert representatives from the aviation, maritime, international rail, tourism and hospitality industries to boost international travel for all modes, while safeguarding public health in the UK.The government will also continue to work with international partners and representatives across the transport industries to further build on the recommendations in the report, including exploring pre-departure testing pilots with partner countries on a bilateral basis, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-cuts-quarantine-for-international-arrivals-to-5-days-from-dec-15/story-R0lO5l9Kqo9APhEXQwQh7J.html
24-11-2020||World||Germany can fund coronavirus aid into 2021, Merkel lawmaker says||Germany can comfortably afford to provide financial aid to businesses affected by coronavirus lockdown restrictions until well into next year, according to a senior lawmaker in Chancellor Angela Merkel’s bloc.“Of course we can keep going until March, until April,” Carsten Linnemann, a deputy head of Merkel’s CDU/CSU caucus, said Tuesday in an interview with ARD television. “We are a very wealthy country.”The comments from the conservative politician suggest a willingness to dig deeper into public coffers to protect Europe’s biggest economy from the fallout of the pandemic.Officials imposed a partial shutdown this month that closed restaurants, gyms and cinemas, while keeping most of the rest of the economy running. With contagion rates still nearly triple a government target, the restrictions are set to be extended until at least December 20.To ease the impact on businesses forced to close, the government has already made around 15 billion euros ($17.8 billion) available. Finance Minister Olaf Scholz said over the weekend that support will be needed beyond the end of this month.The government plans to finance pandemic-related spending by raising more than 160 billion euros in new debt next year, compared with the current target of 96.2 billion euros.The latest restrictions have hurt sentiment among businesses, a monthly survey by the Ifo institute suggested Tuesday.An expectations gauge fell to 91.5 in November from 94.7 the previous month, a steeper drop than economists forecast. More than 70% of companies in the hospitality sector are worried about failing, with almost 20% wondering if they’ll even get through this month, Ifo said, adding that a sub-index for hotels and hospitality “absolutely nosedived.”Ifo President Clemens Fuest said that the government’s strategy appears tailored only for the coming weeks and entrepreneurs would prefer a longer-term plan.“Businesses are more or less resigned to the fact that this uncertainty -- these measures coming in and being lifted again -- is going to stay for some time,” Fuest said in an interview with Bloomberg Television.The number of cases in Germany has tripled since the start of October to more than 900,000, and the amount of people with the disease in intensive care is at record levels.The heads of Germany’s 16 federal states agreed Monday to extend the latest lockdown restrictions, while tightening rules limiting social contact. They will hold talks with Merkel on Wednesday to finalize the measures, which would be rolled over for periods of two weeks if contagion rates remain above the government’s target level.Merkel has said the seven-day incidence per 100,000 citizens needs to come down to around 50 before restrictions can be loosened. It edged up to 143 on Monday, from 141 the previous day, according to the latest report from Germany’s public health authority.The regional leaders agreed to restrict the number of people allowed in private gatherings to five from a maximum of two households.The goal remains to allow Germans to celebrate Christmas with their families. According to the latest proposals, contact restrictions would be loosened for the Dec. 23 to Jan.1 period, with gatherings of up to 10 people from different households allowed and children up to the age of 14 exempted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-can-fund-coronavirus-aid-into-2021-merkel-lawmaker-says/story-JAq3HQkzbTRVXrO8VaVHhN.html
24-11-2020||World||China criticizes pope over comment on Uighur Muslim minority||China criticized Pope Francis on Tuesday over a passage in his new book in which he mentions suffering by China’s Uighur Muslim minority group.Foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said Francis’ remarks had “no factual basis at all.”“People of all ethnic groups enjoy the full rights of survival, development, and freedom of religious belief,” Zhao said at a daily briefing.Zhao made no mention of the camps in which more than 1 million Uighurs and members of other Chinese Muslim minority groups have been held. The U.S. and other governments, along with human rights groups, say the prison-like facilities are intended to divide Muslims from their religious and cultural heritage, forcing them to declare loyalty to China’s ruling Communist Party and its leader, Xi Jinping.China, which initially denied the existence of the facilities, now says they are centers intended to provide job training and prevent terrorism and religious extremism on a voluntary basis.In his new book “Let Us Dream,” due Dec. 1, Francis listed the “poor Uighurs” among examples of groups persecuted for their faith.Francis wrote about the need to see the world from the peripheries and the margins of society, “to places of sin and misery, of exclusion and suffering, of illness and solitude.”In such places of suffering, “I think often of persecuted peoples: the Rohingya, the poor Uighurs, the Yazidi — what ISIS did to them was truly cruel — or Christians in Egypt and Pakistan killed by bombs that went off while they prayed in church,” Francis wrote.Francis has declined to call out China for its crackdown on religious minorities, including Catholics, much to the dismay of the Trump administration and human rights groups. The Vatican last month renewed its controversial agreement with Beijing on nominating Catholic bishops, and Francis has been careful to not say or do anything to offend the Chinese government on the subject.China and the Vatican have had no formal relations since the Communist Party cut ties and arrested Catholic clerics soon after seizing power in 1949.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-criticizes-pope-over-comment-on-uighur-muslim-minority/story-nuggUDzrwRjWTAdDR5KUJP.html
24-11-2020||World||Oil rises past August high on vaccine progress, Joe Biden transition||Oil extended gains after closing at the highest level since August on signs Covid-19 vaccines could be rolled out within weeks and as the start of the US presidential transition process aided markets in general.Futures in New York rose around 1% after settling above $43 a barrel on Monday. A vaccine developed by the University of Oxford and AstraZeneca Plc that prevented a majority of people from getting the disease could be deployed as soon as next month. That follows successful trials of two other anti-virus drugs. The triggering of a formal transition process to US President-elect Joe Biden buoyed stock markets and pushed down the dollar.Vaccine optimism has oil heading for its best month since May, with investors looking past a worsening second wave that’s spurring more lockdown measures. Covid-19 is forecast to claim another 30,000 American lives by mid-December, Japan is moving toward boosting restrictions to contain the virus and Hong Kong is set to close bars and nightclubs, according to local media.The prospect of imminent drug rollouts is reshaping the oil futures curve. Global benchmark Brent’s prompt timespread flipped into backwardation -- a bullish structure where prompt contracts are more expensive than later-dated ones -- on Monday for the first time since June. A rebound in Chinese local flights is also aiding demand for jet fuel, the hardest-hit oil product.“The AstraZeneca vaccine is really a big deal as most developed markets will be able to immunize their most at-risk population to Covid-19 by spring,” said Stephen Innes, chief market strategist at Axi. “The continuing increase in infections in the US and elsewhere has been the primary source of oil demand uncertainty.”The firming of the oil futures curve is a sign the market expects a rapid tightening of supplies ahead, RBC Capital Markets analysts wrote in a report. However, the forward curve for West Texas Intermediate looks overvalued with inventories still brimming at the Cushing, Oklahoma storage hub, they said.WTI’s discount to Brent widened to the most since May amid expectations for OPEC+ to extend current output cuts into next year. Some members of the group are showing signs of strain, however. Iraq is seeking upfront payments of about $2 billion in exchange for a long-term crude-supply contract, the latest sign of Baghdad’s growing desperation for cash.Saudi Arabia, meanwhile, confirmed that Houthi rebels in Yemen targeted an oil facility in northern Jeddah province, a reminder of the ever-present risk of instability in the region. The attack on Monday caused a fire at an oil tank inside a fuel-distribution center, the kingdom’s energy ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/oil-rises-past-august-high-on-vaccine-progress-joe-biden-transition/story-xJr6neu3kp9OlRqT5hAAbP.html
24-11-2020||World||Saudi Aramco says no one hurt in blast, fire from missile strike||Saudi Aramco needed about 40 minutes to put out the fire caused by a missile strike on a fuel depot in the Red Sea city of Jeddah, with evidence pointing to a sophisticated attack on the kingdom’s energy infrastructure.No one was hurt in the explosion or blaze, and supplies from the facility in Saudi Arabia’s second-biggest city were not interrupted, an Aramco official said Tuesday, asking not to be identified due to company policy.Monday’s attack, for which Houthi rebels in neighboring Yemen claimed responsibility, was “similar” to the one on Aramco’s Abqaiq oil-processing plant and Khurais field in September 2019, the official said. Missiles and armed drones temporarily knocked out about half of Saudi Arabia’s oil-production capacity in last year’s attack.Aramco is still assessing the extent of the damage from Monday’s strike, which tore a hole measuring roughly two square meters in a diesel storage tank containing about 480,000 barrels, the official said. The depot has 13 tanks holding diesel, gasoline and jet fuel for domestic distribution. Aramco was distributing products again three hours afterward, the official said.The Houthis have been fighting Yemen’s United Nations-backed government in a civil war since 2015, when a Saudi-led coalition intervened in an effort to roll back the rebels’ gains. They frequently fire missiles into Saudi Arabia, some of which are intercepted. They used a Quds 2 rocket in the Monday attack, their spokesman, Yahya Saree, said in a statement.Saudi Arabia condemned the strike, saying “terrorist and sabotage acts committed against vital installations target the security and stability of energy supplies to the world,” the official Saudi Press Agency reported.The missile landed a few miles from Jeddah’s main airport and would’ve traveled at least 370 miles (595 kilometers) if fired from Yemen, suggesting a high degree of expertise on the part of the Houthis.The Houthis, a Shiite group, also claimed responsibility for the attacks last year on Abqaiq and Khurais, which temporarily halted about 5% of global oil supply and caused crude prices briefly to soar. The UN concluded that those missiles probably came from Iran, which backs the Houthis.Human rights groups have documented repeated cases of bombings by Saudi-led forces of civilian targets in Yemen, including schools and hospitals. The war there has caused what the UN described in 2018 as the world’s worst man-made humanitarian crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/saudi-aramco-says-no-one-hurt-in-blast-fire-from-missile-strike/story-BibcoLuLh8dYGrZLhHjJ3N.html
24-11-2020||World||Hong Kong to close bars, nightclubs from Thursday due to coronavirus||Hong Kong will shutter bars, nightclubs and bathhouses from Thursday until Dec. 2 as concerns rise about a new wave of Covid-19 cases in the Asian financial hub.The government will also cap the number of tables allowed at banquets at 10, with four people allowed per table, Hong Kong Secretary for Food and Health Sophia Chan said Tuesday at a briefing. The four-per-table rule at restaurants and mandatory mask-wearing would remain in place, she said, and the government would urge employers to allow work-from-home arrangements.Chief Executive Carrie Lam said Tuesday morning that Hong Kong would shutter more indoor entertainment venues as cases rose. She’s scheduled to deliver her delayed annual policy address on Wednesday.“The direction is to cover this kind of premises because according to the WHO, we have to avoid three things: Avoid closed areas, avoid crowds -- the ‘three C’s’ -- and avoid close contacts,” Lam said at a weekly briefing.Hong Kong reported 80 coronavirus cases on Tuesday, the most since Aug. 7, including 10 that were of unknown origin, according to Department of Health official Chuang Shuk-kwan. Concerns are rising about a new wave of infections in a city that has largely avoided major outbreaks seen elsewhere in the world.“Unfortunately we see a rebound, so we need to do our best to keep it under control,” Lam said. Still, “we have to look at it globally because this is a global pandemic,” she added. “Hong Kong is not doing bad at all.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-to-close-bars-nightclubs-from-thursday-due-to-coronavirus/story-RQmIey8ClgfD4V9QnGNPIP.html
24-11-2020||World||US charities raise millions in wake of Beirut port blast||When Manal Saab heard that a massive explosion had struck Beirut, she grabbed her phone, frantically trying to reach loved ones there.The news she received was good: Her mother-in-law and sister-in-law, both of whom live not far from the Lebanese capital’s port that was devastated by the Aug. 4 blast, were vacationing at the time.“Otherwise, they wouldn’t have survived it,” said Saab, an American citizen who lives in Fenton, Michigan, near Flint, but was born in Lebanon.Knowing that her family and friends were safe, a feeling of relief washed over Saab.That changed quickly, though. And her focus turned to a different kind of relief.Within a few days, she and her daughter, Rashal Baz Zureikat, a lawyer, had created the Lebanon Relief Project and were starting to solicit contributions from across the USSanta Barbara, California-based humanitarian aid organization Direct Relief has sent more than $20 million in medicine, personal protective equipment and supplies to Beirut. More than half of that amount was delivered via a FedEx-donated airlift that also included relief supplies from the American Task Force on Lebanon and the Lebanon Relief Project.“People were just waiting to help. They just wanted something to immediately give to, they wanted all that pain to basically get out and give something positive,” Saab said. “They wanted to turn all that negative energy into something that will give them some satisfaction that they’re able to reach Lebanon somehow.”The massive blast killed nearly 200 people and injured more than 6,000 when 3,000 tons of ammonium nitrate detonated at Beirut’s port. It also devastated several neighbourhoods, shattering thousands of residential, historic and other buildings. It is considered to be one of the largest non-nuclear explosions ever recorded.The cause of the explosion still is not known, but it is widely seen as the culmination of decades of corruption and mismanagement by Lebanon’s ruling class. It came on top of an unprecedented economic crisis. Poverty and unemployment are soaring, made worse by the coronavirus pandemic. And the medical community was left reeling as it continues to navigate and keep up with the explosion’s devastating long-term effects.The dire situation in a nation once known as a regional hub for banking, real estate and medical services has drawn intense interest in Michigan, which is home to one of the largest concentrations of Arabs outside the Middle East.US Rep. Rashida Tlaib raised “a significant amount of money” via an email campaign, said the Detroit Democrat, who added that she even knew of a girl who brought in some cash for the people of Beirut earned through a lemonade stand.“Even if you are not Lebanese, just being an Arab American … I felt the connection in a big way to what happened and the need to help,” said Maha Freij, director of the Dearborn-based Center for Arab American Philanthropy.CAAP has partnered with the ATFL/Lebanon Relief Project in fund raising to support the expense of logistics and shipments.Everyone involved in relief efforts says more needs to be done to assist Lebanon because, as Saab points out, the situation has gone “from bad to worse,” due to a Covid-19 surge and strained resources in the aftermath of the explosion.“We’re not going to stop,” Saab said. “Because if we don’t (help), who will?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-charities-raise-millions-in-wake-of-beirut-port-blast/story-HPCr7zV2KbKxRpAhD0Q4YO.html
24-11-2020||World||Japan to express concern over China maritime activities, Hong Kong during Chinese top diplomat’s visit: Report||Japan is planning to express concerns China’s maritime activities and its tightened control on Hong Kong during the visit of Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi, Japanese Defence Minister Nobuo Kishi said on Tuesday.Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi is arriving in Japan on Tuesday for talks with his counterpart Motegi Toshimitsu. He is also expected to meet Prime Minister Suga Yoshihide the following day, NHK reported. The visit comes amidst mounting concerns over Beijing’s growing assertiveness in the region.This will be the first time since the launch of Suga’s Cabinet that a high-ranking official from China is coming to Japan.Japan also wants to reaffirm with China the importance of high-level communication between the countries in order to build stable bilateral ties.“There are various complicated issues in the relations of Japan and China, it is important to solve them one by one during high-level negotiations. The trends in the Chinese military cause serious concerns from the regional security point of view, which includes our country. It is important to clearly and sincerely express this concern and try to look for common ground,” Sputnik quoted Kishi as saying.The Japanese side also plans to express concerns over China’s maritime activities and its tightened control on Hong Kong, the NHK broadcaster reported.The visit is also unlikely to dilute major differences between the two regional powers, South China Morning Post reported citing analysts, adding that it was uncertain whether Wang could nail down a date for Chinese President Xi Jinping’s much-delayed trip to Japan.Chinese vessels have repeatedly intruded into Japan’s territorial waters off the Senkaku Islands in Okinawa Prefecture.Japan controls the islands. The Japanese government maintains that the islands are an inherent part of Japan’s territory.Since the imposition of the national security law on Hong Kong earlier this year, many countries including Japan have expressed concerns on Beijing’s clampdown on dissent in the former British colony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-to-express-concern-over-china-maritime-activities-hong-kong-during-chinese-top-diplomat-s-visit-report/story-hXInHvzcOE9UFJPiz6wULO.html
24-11-2020||World||Janet Yellen as treasury secretary sets up Biden to go big on stimulus||President-elect Joe Biden’s selection of Janet Yellen as Treasury secretary signals that he plans to act aggressively to revive the world’s biggest economy, putting a former Federal Reserve chair who’s not shied away from stimulus at the helm of his economic policy.Also Read | Joe Biden taps ex-Fed chair Janet Yellen to lead treasuryWith Yellen in charge, Biden’s Treasury department will be prepared to join Fed Chairman Jerome Powell’s policy of lower-for-longer interest rates with extended, expansionary government spending.While her reported pick was applauded both on Wall Street and in much of official Washington -- even by some of President Donald Trump’s allies -- Yellen is sure to be tested in her Senate confirmation hearings. Conservatives will probe her views on stimulus spending, as well her less confrontational position toward China, a nation many Republicans view as an economic adversary.A front-row witness to the increasingly partisan battles over government spending in Washington over the past quarter-century, Yellen now stands to become a combatant for the first time in her career.Legislative NegotiationsThe Fed is a consensus-based institution, where colleagues typically use polite, diplomatic language when they disagree. In her new job, Yellen can expect GOP lawmakers to pull no punches in assailing the large-scale coronavirus relief package Biden promises, while any concessions to the opposition are sure to draw broadsides from the liberal wing of her own party.Yellen lacks experience in hammering out legislation with Congress, and she also didn’t perform anywhere near the outreach to lawmakers when she was Fed chair that Powell has chalked up, a hole in her resume that could create a learning curve next year.Biden’s plans to nominate her, confirmed by people familiar with the matter, are expected to culminate in an announcement next week.Unified FrontHer first step is expected to be seeking unity between the Fed and Treasury, the two institutions at the front lines of any economic crisis.Trump’s Treasury secretary, Steven Mnuchin, last week opened a rift between the agencies when he declined to extend several crisis-lending programs at the Fed created by the Cares Act, the stimulus signed into law earlier this year.The Fed said it opposed ending the programs but agreed to return hundreds of billions of dollars in backstop money to Treasury, where Mnuchin wants Congress to put it to what he considers better uses.Yellen is seen reversing that move early next year, after the Biden campaign criticized Mnuchin’s decision.“Instead of a dissonance and the break we’ve seen recently between Treasury and the Fed, this is a unified front, but a unified front in the right direction,” said Diane Swonk, chief economist at Grant Thornton. “We need this.”Big StimulusThe leaders of the two institutions have years of shared working history between them, which could smooth their efforts to support the fragile recovery from the pandemic. Powell served on the Fed board as governor when Yellen was chair, then took over for her when Trump tapped him for the Fed’s top job.A meticulous macroeconomist who’s specialized in the study of the labor market, the 74-year-old Yellen recently said the Fed’s policy of lower-for-longer interest rates should coincide with greater government spending.“While the pandemic is still seriously affecting the economy we need to continue extraordinary fiscal support, but even beyond that I think it will be necessary,” Yellen said Oct. 19 on Bloomberg Television. “We can afford to have more debt,” she added, because interest rates will probably be low “for many years to come.”Before she can turn to mending relations with the Fed and negotiating stimulus, though, Yellen can expect Republican criticism for her past comments on Chinese trade policy. Biden returns to the federal government with a Congress far more antagonistic to China than four years ago and united in its desire to punish Beijing for unfair trade practices.China ViewsEconomic negotiations with one of the U.S.’s largest trading partners have traditionally been handled by the U.S. Treasury chief. During a 2018 congressional hearing as Fed chair, Yellen said China was not to blame for America’s big worldwide trade deficit.“I do not see unfair trade practices in China, or anywhere in the world, as what is responsible for the U.S. trade deficit,” she said at the time.But Yellen has extensive experience dealing with Chinese economic officials from her time as Fed chair, when she attended Group of 20 meetings.“Yellen’s understated style should not be mistaken for lack of political savvy or softness in negotiations,” said Cornell University’s Eswar Prasad.Financial Crisis MistakeWriting as an academic with her husband, Nobel-prize winning economist George Akerlof, Yellen has authored papers on such topics as job satisfaction and fair wages in the labor market.“She understands the labor market implications much better than someone from Wall Street would,” Swonk said.Yellen and Biden may seek to avoid a repeat of what many economists considered a policy mistake following the 2008-09 financial crisis, when a premature return to fiscal austerity by Congress held back the recovery even as the Fed sought to spur growth through controversial quantitative easing programs.It’s a misstep Powell is well aware of and which Biden observed first-hand as President Barack Obama’s number two.The trouble – at least from Yellen and Biden’s point of view – is that the shape of fiscal policy will largely be determined by which party controls the Senate, something which won’t be known until early January run-offs for two seats in Georgia’s.Should Republicans retain a majority, Yellen’s considerable reputation as a policy maker likely won’t be enough to persuade Biden’s opponents to adopt his vision of greater federal spending and a reshaped U.S. economy.For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com©2020 Bloomberg L.P.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/janet-yellen-as-treasury-secretary-sets-up-biden-to-go-big-on-stimulus/story-N9mYsmByXUxVjmOb5QCagN.html
24-11-2020||World||Hundreds of flights cancelled as Shanghai tackles Covid-19||Hundreds of flights at one of China’s busiest airports were cancelled Tuesday as Shanghai raced to bring a local coronavirus outbreak under control.Health officials have tested thousands of staff at Pudong International Airport since a small cluster of Covid-19 cases in the city was linked to several cargo handlers.China -- where the virus first emerged late last year -- has largely brought the pandemic under control through travel restrictions and lockdowns, but it is now battling a number of domestic outbreaks in different cities.Shanghai has reported seven local infections linked to the airport this month, with most cases found in the past few days.The outbreak has sparked plans to give high-risk workers at the travel hub an experimental vaccine China has already been providing to state employees, international students and essential workers heading abroad since July.On Tuesday, figures from data services firm VariFlight showed that over 500 flights out of Pudong Airport had been called off -- nearly half the day’s scheduled flights.Also Read: 2 viruses closely related to coronavirus found in Japan, CambodiaAlmost half of scheduled inbound flights were also cancelled.More than 17,700 people had been swabbed by Monday morning at part of a drive to test airport cargo staff, state news agency Xinhua reported, with those infected including employees at logistics firms FedEx and UPS.Videos shared Sunday night on social media appeared to show a large crowd at the airport trying to push their way into a multi storey car park where the testing was taking place and being held back by a row of people wearing full hazmat suits.Later footage published by Shanghai health officials showed rows of people queuing at what appears to be the same location and being ushered to testing stations by health workers.Nearly half of all scheduled flights were also cancelled at Tianjin International Airport, a northern port city testing around 2.6 million people to try and bring a local cluster under control.Also Read| Covid-19: All you need to know about global QR code proposed by ChinaTianjin reported five local cases on Saturday and another on Tuesday.China has been rolling out mass-screening campaigns in response to the emergence of local Covid-19 cases, in some instances collecting test samples from entire districts or cities.Authorities have in recent days shifted their focus to imported frozen food and other inbound shipments, which have been blamed for a resurgence of local infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hundreds-of-flights-cancelled-as-shanghai-tackles-covid-19/story-z4uGsL5gzw4DoMp223zLmL.html
24-11-2020||World||NYC’s first African-American mayor, David Dinkins, has died||David Dinkins, who broke barriers as New York City’s first African-American mayor, but was doomed to a single term by a soaring murder rate, stubborn unemployment and his mishandling of a riot in Brooklyn, has died. He was 93.Dinkins died Monday, the New York City Police Department confirmed. The department said officers were called to the former mayor’s home in the evening. Initial indications were that he died of natural causes.Dinkins’ death came just weeks after the death of his wife, Joyce, who died in October at the age of 89.Dinkins, a calm and courtly figure with a penchant for tennis and formal wear, was a dramatic shift from both his predecessor, Ed Koch, and his successor, Rudolph Giuliani — two combative and often abrasive politicians in a city with a world-class reputation for impatience and rudeness.In his inaugural address, he spoke lovingly of New York as a “gorgeous mosaic of race and religious faith, of national origin and sexual orientation, of individuals whose families arrived yesterday and generations ago, coming through Ellis Island or Kennedy Airport or on buses bound for the Port Authority.”But the city he inherited had an ugly side, too.AIDS, guns and crack cocaine killed thousands of people each year. Unemployment soared. Homelessness was rampant. The city faced a $1.5 billion budget deficit.Dinkins’ low-key, considered approach quickly came to be perceived as a flaw. Critics said he was too soft and too slow.“Dave, Do Something!” screamed one New York Post headline in 1990, Dinkins’ first year in office.Dinkins did a lot at City Hall. He raised taxes to hire thousands of police officers. He spent billions of dollars revitalizing neglected housing. His administration got the Walt Disney Corp. to invest in the cleanup of then-seedy Times Square.In recent years, he’s gotten more credit for those accomplishments, credit that Mayor Bill de Blasio said he should have always had. De Blasio, who worked in Dinkins’ administration, named Manhattan’s Municipal Building after the former mayor in October 2015.“The example Mayor David Dinkins set for all of us shines brighter than the most powerful lighthouse imaginable,” said New York Attorney General Letitia James, who herself shattered barriers as the state’s first Black woman elected to statewide office.“I was honored to have him hold the bible at my inaugurations because I, and others, stand on his shoulders,” she said.Results from his accomplishments, however, didn’t come fast enough to earn Dinkins a second term.After beating Giuliani by only 47,000 votes out of 1.75 million cast in 1989, Dinkins lost a rematch by roughly the same margin in 1993.Political historians often trace the defeat to Dinkins’ handling of the Crown Heights riot in Brooklyn in 1991.The violence began after a black 7-year-old boy was accidentally killed by a car in the motorcade of an Orthodox Jewish religious leader. During the three days of anti-Jewish rioting by young black men that followed, a rabbinical student was fatally stabbed. Nearly 190 people were hurt.A state report issued in 1993, an election year, cleared Dinkins of the persistently repeated charge that he intentionally held back police in the first days of the violence, but criticized him for not stepping up as a leader.In a 2013 memoir, Dinkins accused the police department of letting the disturbance get out of hand, and also took a share of the blame, on the grounds that “the buck stopped with me.” But he bitterly blamed his election defeat on prejudice: “I think it was just racism, pure and simple.”Born in Trenton, New Jersey, on July 10, 1927, Dinkins moved with his mother to Harlem when his parents divorced, but returned to his hometown to attend high school. There, he learned an early lesson in discrimination: Blacks were not allowed to use the school swimming pool.During a hitch in the Marine Corps as a young man, a Southern bus driver barred him from boarding a segregated bus because the section for blacks was filled.“And I was in my country’s uniform!” Dinkins recounted years later.While attending Howard University, the historically black university in Washington, D.C., Dinkins said he gained admission to segregated movie theaters by wearing a turban and faking a foreign accent.Back in New York with a degree in mathematics, Dinkins married his college sweetheart, Joyce Burrows, in 1953. His father-in-law, a power in local Democratic politics, channeled Dinkins into a Harlem political club. Dinkins paid his dues as a Democratic functionary while earning a law degree from Brooklyn Law School, and then went into private practice.He got elected to the state Assembly in 1965, became the first black president of the city’s Board of Elections in 1972 and went on to serve as Manhattan borough president.Dinkins’ election as mayor in 1989 came after two racially charged cases that took place under Koch: the rape of a white jogger in Central Park and the bias murder of a black teenager in Bensonhurst.Dinkins defeated Koch, 50 percent to 42 percent, in the Democratic primary. But in a city where party registration was 5-to-1 Democratic, Dinkins barely scraped by the Republican Giuliani in the general election, capturing only 30 percent of the white vote.His administration had one early high note: Newly freed Nelson Mandela made New York City his first stop in the US in 1990. Dinkins had been a longtime, outspoken critic of apartheid in South Africa.In that same year, though, Dinkins was criticized for his handling of a black-led boycott of Korean-operated grocery stores in Brooklyn. Critics contended Dinkins waited too long to intervene. He ultimately ended up crossing the boycott line to shop at the stores — but only after Koch did.During Dinkins’ tenure, the city’s finances were in rough shape because of a recession that cost New York 357,000 private-sector jobs in his first three years in office.Meanwhile, the city’s murder toll soared to an all-time high, with a record 2,245 homicides during his first year as mayor. There were 8,340 New Yorkers killed during the Dinkins administration — the bloodiest four-year stretch since the New York Police Department began keeping statistics in 1963.In the last years of his administration, record-high homicides began a decline that continued for decades. In the first year of the Giuliani administration, murders fell from 1,946 to 1,561.One of Dinkins’ last acts in 1993 was to sign an agreement with the United States Tennis Association that gave the organization a 99-year lease on city land in Queens in return for building a tennis complex. That deal guaranteed that the US Open would remain in New York City for decades.After leaving office, Dinkins was a professor at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs.He had a pacemaker inserted in August 2008, and underwent an emergency appendectomy in October 2007. He also was hospitalized in March 1992 for a bacterial infection that stemmed from an abscess on the wall of his large intestine. He was treated with antibiotics and recovered in a week.Dinkins is survived by his son, David Jr., daughter, Donna and two grandchildren.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nyc-s-first-african-american-mayor-david-dinkins-has-died/story-9VYleQknYIceWuAbNq6RSO.html
24-11-2020||World||Australia opens up more borders in domestic travel boost, eyes vaccine||Australia will lift more internal border restrictions in a boost for tourism as new coronavirus infections slow to a trickle, while first vaccines could be available in March, a government minister said on Tuesday.Queensland state, a popular holiday destination, will allow visitors next week from the country’s two most populous states, New South Wales (NSW) and Victoria, after closing its borders in August.NSW has since notched a month without any Covid-19 cases where the source is unknown and restrictions on arrivals from Sydney will be eased on Dec. 1, Queensland Premier Annastacia Palaszczuk said.Residents of Victoria, previously the country’s coronavirus hotspot, will also be welcomed if the state has no new cases on Wednesday, which would mark 26 days without community transmission.“Queensland is good to go,” Palaszczuk told reporters in Brisbane.NSW and Victoria opened their border on Monday, while the South Australia-Victorian border opens fully next week, in welcome news for local airline companies, Qantas Airways and Virgin Australia.Qantas said it will run more than 1,200 return flights from Victoria and NSW into Queensland in the run-up to Christmas.The moves will please Prime Minister Scott Morrison who has pushed state leaders to relax some curbs to help revive the economy, which shrank 7% in the three months to end-June, the most since records began in 1959.Looking further out, Health Minister Greg Hunt said Australia - which has agreed to buy nearly 34 million doses of AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine - is increasingly confident it can complete a vaccination programme after the release of preliminary trial results.“Our vaccine timeline is beginning to strengthen. The news from overseas is that we are on track for first vaccines in March,” Hunt told reporters in Sydney. AstraZeneca said its Covid-19 vaccine, cheaper to make, easier to distribute and faster to scale-up than its rivals, could be as much as 90% effective.Australia has reported more than 27,800 cases of Covid-19 and 907 deaths since the pandemic began, but estimates there are fewer than 100 active Covid-19 cases remaining, mostly people in hotel quarantine.Victoria said on Tuesday it had zero active cases for the first time in over eight months following a strict lockdown after daily infections peaked at more than 700 in early August.Qantas, meanwhile, said it will insist in future that international travelers have a Covid-19 vaccination before they fly, describing the move as “a necessity”.“We are looking at changing our terms and conditions to say, for international travelers, that we will ask people to have a vaccination before they can get on the aircraft,” Chief Executive Alan Joyce told broadcaster Channel Nine.Australia closed its international borders in March and currently requires returning travelers from overseas to quarantine for two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australia-opens-up-more-borders-in-domestic-travel-boost-eyes-vaccine/story-tyQgwDP6wQQudDqiJr8xcN.html
24-11-2020||World||Elon Musk overtakes Bill Gates to grab world’s second-richest ranking||Elon Musk’s year of dizzying ascents hit a new apex Monday as the Tesla Inc. co-founder passed Bill Gates to become the world’s second-richest person.The 49-year-old entrepreneur’s net worth soared $7.2 billion to $127.9 billion, driven by yet another surge in Tesla’s share price. Musk has added $100.3 billion to his net worth this year, the most of anyone on the Bloomberg Billionaires Index, a ranking of the world’s 500 richest people. In January he ranked 35th.His advance up the wealth ranks has been driven largely by Tesla, whose market value is approaching $500 billion. About three-quarters of his net worth is comprised of Tesla shares, which are valued more than four times as much as his stake in Space Exploration Technologies Corp., or SpaceX.Musk’s milestone marks only the second time in the index’s eight-year history that Microsoft Corp. co-founder Gates has ranked lower than number two. He held the top spot for years before being bumped by Amazon.com Inc. founder Jeff Bezos in 2017. Gates’s net worth of $127.7 billion would be much higher had he not donated so prodigiously to charity over the years. He has given more than $27 billion to his namesake foundation since 2006.With Monday’s move, Musk unseats an occasional verbal sparring partner in Gates, who the Tesla billionaire has ridiculed on Twitter for, among other things, having “no clue” about electric trucks. The two have also traded barbs over Covid-19. Gates, whose charitable foundation is one of the preeminent bodies backing vaccine research, has expressed concern over Musk’s stated suspicion of pandemic data and embrace of certain conspiracy theories.The year has been a lucrative one for the world’s richest people. Despite the pandemic and widespread layoffs that have disproportionately affected the world’s working class and poor, the members of the Bloomberg index have collectively gained 23% -- or $1.3 trillion -- since the year began.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/elon-musk-overtakes-bill-gates-to-grab-world-s-second-richest-ranking/story-laXG078Xu347FOvE3bTeIM.html
24-11-2020||World||Trump relents finally, tells officials to cooperate with Biden transition team||US President Donald Trump finally relented on Monday, 16 days after he was projected to lose to President-elect Joe Biden, and instructed his officials to cooperate with the incoming administration, but he did not concede defeat and vowed to keep up the “good fight”, referring to his efforts to stay in office.Trump’s refusal to concede is growing less consequential every passing day because of his failing legal challenges and political manoeuvres. Michigan certified Biden the victor in the state earlier in the day, becoming the third of the battleground states to do so after Georgia and Wisconsin. Pennsylvania followed later in the day, all but killing Trump’s hopes of reversing the poll outcome and somehow win a second term.Trump’s decision to allow the transition process to go ahead was seen by political commentators and experts as the most he will do to acknowledge his defeat.But the president insisted he was not giving up. “Our case STRONGLY continues, we will keep up the good fight, and I believe we will prevail!” he wrote in a tweet, adding, “Nevertheless, in the best interest of our Country, I am recommending that Emily [Murphy, head of the administration that flags off the transition process] and her team do what needs to be done with regard to initial protocols, and have told my team to do the same.”Murphy, the chief of General Services Administration, had already issued a letter by then, allowing the transition process to start finally, getting out of the way. “I take this role seriously and, because of recent developments involving legal challenges and certifications of election results, am transmitting this letter today to make those resources and services available to you,” she wrote.The Biden transition team promptly declared the GSA statement as an “ascertainment”, a technical recognition of President-elect Biden and Vice-President-elect Kamala Harris as “apparent winners” pending finalisation by electors next month, and said in a statement, “This final decision is a definitive administrative action to formally begin the transition process with federal agencies.”The transition team said that in the days ahead it will start discussing with the Trump administration its “pandemic response, have a full accounting of our national security interests, and gain complete understanding of the Trump administration’s efforts to hollow out government agencies”.In the absence of the ascertainment, President-elect Biden had been denied national security intelligence briefings, which he should have been getting as part of the transition process, and his team was denied access to the Trump administration’s preparedness to tackle the epidemic and distribution of vaccines that are expected to start rolling out around the middle of December, initially for first responders and those at high-risk.The Biden transition team will also be entitled to federal funding for its operations and most importantly, start the routine process of background screening of the president-elect’s cabinet nominations, the first bunch of to be announced Tuesday, and the 4,000 federal positions to be filled with political appointees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-relents-finally-tells-officials-to-cooperate-with-biden-transition-team/story-Boz6xyADmQqxb7rDqN4nxM.html
24-11-2020||World||Carl Bernstein says 21 GOP senators contemptuous of Donald Trump||Former Watergate sleuth Carl Bernstein took to Twitter to list the names of 21 Republican senators who he says have “repeatedly expressed contempt” for Donald Trump and his fitness to be president.Bernstein’s post was condemned Monday by some of those involved. It was an eyebrow-raising modern twist on journalism from the former Washington Post reporter who, with partner Bob Woodward in the 1970s, penned scoops that led to the resignation of President Richard Nixon.Bernstein said he wasn’t violating any confidentiality pledges in listing the senators. He said he learned of the politicians’ supposed private feelings through conversations with some of their colleagues, staff members, lobbyists and White House aides.“With few exceptions, their craven public silence has helped enable Trump’s most grievous conduct — including undermining and discrediting the US electoral system,” he tweeted late Sunday.Bernstein, a CNN political analyst, declined a request to talk about his posts.Many Washington reporters have talked about lawmakers who have privately expressed reservations about Trump but rarely attached names to their stories. Bernstein said he believed several of the Republicans on his list were privately happy about Democrat Joe Biden’s victory.Also Read: Trump relents after steady drumbeat of Republicans urge start of Biden transitionMichael Zona, a spokesperson for Iowa Sen. Chuck Grassley, who was on Bernstein’s list, said the characterization was untrue.“Sen. Grassley has been a strong supporter of the president and at the same time has made it no secret when he disagrees with the president,” Zona said. “There is no difference between what Sen. Grassley says publicly and privately. Washington journalists might be wise to reconsider trafficking in baseless second- and third-hand rumor. It may restore some lost credibility.” Ohio Sen. Rob Portman “has never talked to Mr. Bernstein and we don’t know where he’s getting his false information,” said Emily Benavides, the senator’s spokesperson.Portman, in a column written for the Cincinnati Enquirer on Monday, called on Trump to begin cooperating with President-elect Biden on a transition.There was no article on CNN’s website about Bernstein’s list on Monday. The veteran reporter appeared on CNN’s “New Day” on Friday and named 15 of the 21 senators he tweeted about two days later.Roy Gutterman, a Syracuse University professor who specializes in journalism law and ethics, said Bernstein’s approach was unusual and noted the journalist’s frequent criticism of Trump.“I don’t know if what he did today would fit the model of what he staked his reputation on, which was hard-core investigative reporting,” Gutterman said.It was unsurprising to find Utah Sen. Mitt Romney on Bernstein’s list. Romney said last week of Trump’s pressure to overturn the election results that it was “difficult to imagine a worse, more undemocratic action by a sitting American president.” “The senator’s views about the president are well known by the public,” spokeswoman Liz Johnson said.In a statement, a spokesperson for Indiana Sen. Todd Young said Bernstein’s “unsourced rumors” don’t deserve a response and that Young has a great working relationship with Trump.Meanwhile, Sean Smith, communications director for South Carolina Sen. Tim Scott, said his boss “has never met, talked to or considered interacting with Mr. Bernstein, so no one should give any weight to the baseless accusations of someone who clearly has an axe to grind with the president.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/carl-bernstein-says-21-gop-senators-contemptuous-of-donald-trump/story-5zktF3XO2qltJr9MtC2NLO.html
24-11-2020||World||EU and Canada along with 11 other nations push trade plan to help in Covid-19 battle||The European Union(EU), Canada, and 11 other countries agreed on Monday to measures such as eliminating export curbs they believe should form the basis of a global deal to help tackle Covid-19 and future pandemics.The “Ottawa Group” will present its proposals to the World Trade Organization(WTO) in mid-December in the hope its 164 members will sign up early in 2021.“If we adopt something in early spring of next year, say March, that would still be a moment when this would be relevant for the management of the pandemic,” a European Commission official said, adding this would cover a busy period when vaccines were being made and distributed.The group, which does not include the United States or China, wants WTO members to commit to removing export restrictions on medical supplies - some 70 still have them in place, according to EU officials.Any such restrictions should be targeted and temporary and not disturb the COVAX initiative to provide equitable access to Covid-19 drugs.WTO members should, they say, take steps to ease trade flows, such as streamlining customs, and not impose on pandemic-related goods during the crisis.They also urge greater transparency and believe the WTO, World Health Organization and World Customs Organization can work more closely to be ready for future pandemics.The Ottawa Group’s other members are Australia, Brazil, Chile, Japan, Kenya, South Korea, Mexico, New Zealand, Norway, Singapore and Switzerland.The group’s initiative is not the only one related to the pandemic at the WTO.India, South Africa and other developing countries want to waive intellectual property rules to improve access to affordable drugs.The European Union, the United States and other wealthy nations oppose this, saying pharmaceutical companies need financial incentives to develop vaccines and therapies and there is sufficient flexibility under existing trade rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-and-canada-along-with-11-other-nations-push-trade-plan-to-help-in-covid-19-battle/story-LhImxdAHqBGlhk6GJC27EI.html
24-11-2020||World||The woman behind the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine||The University of Oxford and pharma major AstraZeneca on Monday said their vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) was up to 90% effective in late-stage clinical trials, bringing hope to millions across the world. This would not have been possible without professor Sarah Gilbert at the university’s Jenner Institute and her indispensable team.This Irish-born virologist started her journey in 1994 with malaria vaccine research and has since then worked on shots against Ebola and Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS). According to the BBC, all these might not have materialised if Dr Gilbert had given up on science during her PhD days. But she decided not to give up on a career in science because it provided a stable source of income.Gilbert has always preferred interdisciplinary research and she told the BBC that the lack of “diversity of thought” and “tunnel-like focus” during her doctoral years at the University of Hull almost caused her to give up on science. Coming from a family of musicians, Dr Gilbert juggled a plethora of careers, from working at brewing research to human health and now she and her team are about to embark on their most awaited challenge yet.Sarah Gilbert was born in Kettering, Northamptonshire in April 1962, both her parents were not in STEM fields. She started working on vaccine research in 1994 with Adrian Hill, who is now the director of the Jenner Institute. Their very first collaborative effort was on the malaria vaccine and as mentioned by the Lancet, this helped hone her skills in creating recombinant viral vector vaccines, that could itself trigger positive responses from T-cells and not rely exclusively on antibody response, like the majority of vaccines at that time.The Oxford Covid-19 vaccine’s foundation is built on the research work painstakingly put together by Gilbert and Hill over the years and which they successfully patented. Gilbert’s team was awarded a grant of £2.2 million from the United Kingdom’s National Institute for Health Research and the UK Research and Innovation in March 2020. The Oxford vaccine, which is called AZD1222, is cheaper to make, can be conveniently stored at fridge temperature and is easier to transport. Its principal manufacturer is Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), which has promised to store half of what it produces for India.Till date, 59,501,986 cases of the coronavirus disease have been registered, 1,401,567 individuals have succumbed to the infection and 41,146,393 people have recovered, according to Worldometers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/the-woman-behind-the-oxford-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine/story-vhD8r3PeNWX1nAxvBx4XEO.html
24-11-2020||World||French ex-President Nicolas Sarkozy’s trial for corruption suspended||The trial of former French President Nicolas Sarkozy for corruption and influence peddling was suspended Monday less than two hours after it started, to allow a medical report on one of the defendants.Sarkozy is accused of having tried to illegally obtain information from a magistrate about an investigation involving him in 2014.This is the first trial for the 65-year-old politician, who has faced several other judicial investigations since leaving office in 2012.He stands trial in a Paris court along with his lawyer Thierry Herzog, 65, and the magistrate, Gilbert Azibert, 73. They face a prison sentence of up to 10 years and a maximum fine of 1 million euros ($1.2 million.) They deny any wrongdoing.Sarkozy and Herzog are suspected of promising Azibert a job in Monaco in exchange for leaking information about an investigation into suspected illegal financing of the 2007 presidential campaign by France’s richest woman, L’Oreal heiress Liliane Bettencourt.Sarkozy arrived at the court surrounded by his lawyers and bodyguards, in the presence of dozens of journalists. The Paris court has been placed under high security as hearings in the case, scheduled until Dec. 10, are taking place at the same time as another key trial — that of the 2015 attacks at the Charlie Hebdo offices and a kosher supermarket.The trial started Monday in the absence of Azibert, whose lawyer requested the hearings to be postponed. He argued his client’s bad health makes it risky for him to travel and appear in court amid the coronavirus pandemic, leading the court to suspend proceedings pending an expert medical report. The trial will resume on Thursday.In 2014, Sarkozy and Herzog used secret mobile phones — registered to the alias name of “Paul Bismuth” — to be be able to have private talks as they feared their conversations were being tapped.Sarkozy and Herzog explained that they bought the phones to avoid being targeted by illegal phone tapping. Investigative judges, however, suspect they actually wanted to avoid being tapped by investigators.Judges have found that discussions between Sarkozy and his lawyer suggested they had knowledge that judicial investigators at the time tapped their conversations on their official phones — they mentioned “judges listening.”Sarkozy argued that he never intervened to help Azibert, who never got the job and retired in 2014.Investigative judges consider that as soon as a deal has been offered, it constitutes a criminal offence even if the promises haven’t been fulfilled.Legal proceedings against Sarkozy have been dropped in the Bettencourt case.Sarkozy, a lawyer by training, pointed at judicial harassment, accusing judges of breaching lawyer-client privilege via wiretapping.“I don’t want things that I didn’t do to be held against me. The French need to know... that I’m not a rotten person,” he told BFM TV earlier this month.He said he was facing the trial in a “combative” mood.Sarkozy’s predecessor, Jacques Chirac, was found guilty in 2011 of misuse of public money, breach of trust and conflict of interest and given a two-year suspended prison sentence for actions during his time as Paris mayor, before he was president from 1995 to 2007.Sarkozy’s name has appeared for years in several other judicial investigations.Allegations, which include illegal financing of his 2007 campaign by then-Libyan dictator Moammar Gadhafi, cast a shadow over Sarkozy’s comeback attempt for the 2017 presidential election.After failing to be chosen as candidate by his conservative party, he withdrew from active politics.Sarkozy remained the most popular figure amid French right-wing voters in recent years. His memoirs published this summer, “The Time of Storms,” was a bestseller for weeks.Sarkozy was handed preliminary charges including “illegal campaign financing” in the Libyan investigation, which has been underway since 2013 — and prompted the wiretapping of his phones.Earlier this month, French-Lebanese businessman Ziad Takieddine retracted his previous statements that he delivered suitcases from Libya containing 5 million euros ($5.9 million) in cash to Sarkozy and his former chief of staff, Claude Gueant.Instead, he told news broadcaster BFM and magazine Paris-Match that there were “no Libyan financing.”Sarkozy said that the truth “finally comes out.”Financial prosecutors said in a statement that charges in the Libyan case are based “on strong or corroborated evidence that are not limited to one person’s statement only.”Meanwhile, the former president will stand another trial in spring 2021 along with 13 other people on charges of illegal financing of his 2012 presidential campaign.His conservative party and a company named Bygmalion are accused of using a special invoice system to conceal unauthorized overspending.They are suspected of having spent 42.8 million euros ($50.7 million), almost twice the maximum authorized, to finance the campaign, which ended up in victory for Socialist rival Francois Hollande.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/french-ex-president-nicolas-sarkozy-s-trial-for-corruption-suspended/story-JIsMyCz4XMfUtc4j1E6cNL.html
24-11-2020||World||Covid-19 on rampage, east to west||Chinese authorities are testing millions of people, imposing lockdowns and shutting down schools after multiple locally transmitted coronavirus cases were discovered in three cities across the country last week.As temperatures drop, large-scale measures are being enacted in the cities of Tianjin, Shanghai, and Manzhouli, despite the low number of new cases compared to the United States and other countries that are seeing new waves of infections.Many experts and government officials have warned that the chance of the virus spreading will be greater during the cold weather. Recent flare-ups have shown that there is still a risk of the virus returning, despite being largely controlled within China.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageOn Monday, the National Health Commission reported two new locally transmitted cases in Shanghai over the last 24 hours, bringing the total to seven since Friday. China has recorded 86,442 total cases and 4,634 deaths since the virus was first detected in the central Chinese city of Wuhan late last year.The two latest cases confirmed in Shanghai were close contacts of another airport worker who was diagnosed with Covid-19 earlier in November. On Sunday night, the city’s Pudong International airport decided to test its workers, collecting 17,719 samples through the early hours of Monday morning. Plans call for testing others in surrounding communities if further cases are detected.Videos on social media purportedly from workers showed what appeared to be chaotic scenes at the airport as they were given last-minute orders to get tested. In the videos, people are seen standing in large groups pushing back and forth against officials in hazmat suits.Shanghai has been more selective with mass testing, targeting people associated with a particular place, such as the airport or the hospital where a confirmed individual had worked, rather than an entire district.In Tianjin, health workers have collected more than 2.2 million samples for testing from residents in the Binhai new district, after five locally transmitted cases were discovered there last week.In Manzhouli, a city of more than 200,000 people, local health authorities are testing all residents after two cases were reported on Saturday. They also shut down all schools and public venues and banned public gatherings such as banquets.China has resorted to its heavy, top-down approach each time new cases of local transmission are found — shutting down schools and hospitals, locking down residential communities and entire neighborhoods, and testing millions.Tianjin authorities shut down a kindergarten and moved all the teachers, family and students to a centralized quarantine space. They also sealed the residential compound where the five cases were found.China’s approach to controlling the pandemic has been criticized for being draconian. It locked down the city of Wuhan, where cases were first reported, for more than two months to contain the virus, with the local government shutting down all traffic and confining residents to their homes. Domestically, however, China has called its strategy “clear to zero” and has boasted of its success.“In the entire world, only China has the ability to get to zero. Other countries don’t have this ability,” Zeng Guang, the chief epidemiologist at the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, said in a webinar hosted by Chinese media in September. “It’s not just getting to zero, even for them to control the first wave of the epidemic is hard.”“‘Clearing to zero’ is actually the most economically effective way to do epidemic prevention. If you don’t do that, then this problem will get more troublesome,” he said. “Use a heavier hand, and get to zero, then people will feel reassured.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-on-rampage-east-to-west/story-f3xdjkOhbXFbznpifkFMTL.html
24-11-2020||World||White House planning holiday parties despite warnings against gatherings during Covid-19 pandemic||All those warnings from public health officials begging Americans to limit gatherings this holiday season amid a surge in coronavirus cases aren’t stopping the White House from planning a host of festivities and holiday parties in the midst of a pandemic.Monday’s delivery of an 18-and-a-half-foot tall Fraser fir by horse-drawn carriage signalled the kickoff of the usual array of White House holiday events that will include the annual turkey pardon and Christmas and Hanukkah events.“Attending the parties will be a very personal choice,” said Stephanie Grisham, first lady Melania Trump’s spokeswoman and chief of staff, referring to the plans. “It is a longstanding tradition for people to visit and enjoy the cheer and iconic décor of the annual White House Christmas celebrations.”The decision to move forward with indoor gatherings and project a sense of normalcy comes as the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention(CDC), top White House advisers and public health professionals across the nation have been pleading with Americans not to travel for Thanksgiving or spend the holiday with people from outside of their households.As the weather has cooled, the virus has been spreading out of control, with cases and hospitalizations surging across the nation and more than 250,000 people dead.The White House has already been the site of several suspected “super-spreader” events and dozens of staff — along with the president, his wife and two of his sons — have been infected, along with a long list of campaign aides, other advisers and allies in Congress.Grisham said the White House would be taking precautions to provide “the safest environment possible” for those who choose to attend events. That includes smaller guest lists, requiring masks, encouraging social distancing on the White House grounds and hand sanitizer stations placed throughout the State Floor.“Guests will enjoy food individually plated by chefs at plexiglass protected food stations. All passed beverages will be covered. All service staff will wear masks and gloves to comply with food safety guidelines,” she said.Anthony Fauci, the nation’s top infectious disease expert, warned once again on Monday of the potentially dire consequences of gathering this holiday season.“We’re in a very difficult situation where the rate of infection, the slope of infections, are really very, very steep. So you might want to reconsider travel plans,” Fauci said in an interview with Washington Post Live. He added that indoor holiday gatherings “as innocent and wonderful as they sound” should be kept to a minimal number of people, preferably “just members of a household” and also warned of a potential “surge superimposed upon a surge” if precautions aren’t taken.Fauci predicted the country could see “well over” 300,000 deaths by the end of the year “if we don’t we turn things around.”US Surgeon General Jerome Adams on Monday repeatedly evaded questions about indoor holiday parties scheduled at the White House while calling other Americans’ indoor gatherings potential “super-spreader” events.“I want the American people to know that we are at a dire point in our fight with this virus, by any measure: cases, positivity, hospitalizations, deaths,” he said on on ABC’s “Good Morning America.” “So I’m asking Americans — I’m begging you — hold on just a little bit longer. Keep Thanksgiving and the celebrations small and smart this year do it outdoors if you can, keep it small, ideally less than 10, and prepare beforehand.”Pressed on whether he had concerns about White House holiday plans, Adams said that best practices “apply to the White House, they apply to the American people, they apply to everyone. We want you to stay safe so we can get to a vaccine.”Not long after, the first lady attended a small outdoor ceremony on the White House driveway to mark the arrival of the large Christmas tree that will adorn the White House Blue Room.Mrs. Trump inspected the Fraser fir tree, smiled, waved to cameras and chatted with masked drivers of a carriage pulled by Clydesdale horses as the brass section of the US Marine Band played Christmas carols.The National Christmas Tree Association(NCTA) said that, in normal years, “the selection of the White House Christmas tree is a media event at the NCTA Champion Grower’s farm attended by 100 or more people to observe the White House team select the perfect tree for the Blue Room.”It added that “2020 is far from a normal year — there was no selection event this year.”On Tuesday, the holiday events will continue at the White House as President Donald Trump participates in the annual pardoning of the National Thanksgiving Turkey at a ceremony in the Rose Garden.The turkeys – Corn and Cob – arrived Sunday at the luxury Willard InterContinental Hotel in Washington and photographers were invited there Monday, as they are every year, to capture the fowl strutting around inside their hotel room.The first family has cancelled its annual Thanksgiving week trip to Florida and will be gathering at the White House instead of Trump’s Mar-a-Lago club, where he is typically joined by hundreds of dues-paying members.President-elect Joe Biden, meanwhile, has said that there will be only three people at his Thanksgiving table this year because of the virus“I got a big family you’ve probably heard a lot about. We do everything together,” he said during a virtual roundtable with health-care workers. This year, however, “There are going to be three of us because you can’t mix the families that have been away, that haven’t been quarantining.”Trump has remained largely behind closed doors since he lost his bid for re-election. He has refused to concede, lodging baseless allegations of voter fraud in an attempt to subvert the results.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/white-house-planning-holiday-parties-despite-warnings-against-gatherings-during-covid-19-pandemic/story-b7purljz71YrHNIATTyh3O.html
24-11-2020||World||Hong Kong campus rocked by protest becomes ‘prison’ a year later||One year ago, Hong Kong Polytechnic University was in flames.Police and student protesters faced off at the campus -- one of the Hong Kong’s best-known -- in a chaotic 16-day siege last November that became a symbol of the battle between the city’s China-backed administration and anti-government protesters.Today, what had once been a bustling, freely accessible campus is locked down, its protest movement extinguished in a series of aggressive moves to stifle dissent in the Asian financial hub.On a recent weekday, uniformed security guards stood at entrances blocked by gates. To enter, students, faculty and staff must tap their university ID cards, while visitors are not allowed unless they receive permission in advance. Though many universities in the US and Europe have been locked down because of Covid-19, PolyU’s restricted campus is rare in the city -- others including Hong Kong Baptist University and the Chinese University of Hong Kong still allow students and visitors on campus without prior approval.Even so, students at all universities in Hong Kong have had to adjust in the wake of national security legislation imposed in June by Beijing, including a tip line to report suspected violations. The dismissals of professors who supported the pro-democracy movement have added to concerns about a loss of academic freedom in an education system that has long contributed to Hong Kong’s status as a business hub by luring international professors and students while enticing local high achievers to stay home.“On the one hand, professors are more cautious about what they say and cover in class, a situation that has been aggravated by the National Security hotline initiative,” said Peter Baehr, a professor of social theory at Lingnan University in Hong Kong. “This is creating a rat’s nest of informers and some of them, sadly, may be students and colleagues. On the other hand, university administrations are becoming ever more tyrannical.”Baehr and other experts on the city’s university system say they are seeing what they call a replication from the mainland of strict Chinese Communist Party control. Patriotism and fealty to the party are key. “This system rewards loyalty over competence, opportunism over principle,” Baehr said. “Academics are expected to take orders from administrators and lump it. They generally do.”PolyU accessA spokeswoman for PolyU said in an emailed statement that the university restricts access to the campus to maintain normal operations and reduce the risk of spreading the coronavirus. The university also has an obligation to take appropriate action if there’s any improper use of its premises, she added.“The university firmly upholds academic freedom,” the spokeswoman said in the statement. “However, any acts that violate laws and regulations will not be tolerated.”PolyU said it offered almost 2,200 undergraduate seats in the local admission program for the 2020-2021 academic year, and almost 90% accepted the offer and completed the registration. The registration rate is similar to the previous year, PolyU said.Job worriesSome students said they are worried that the campus’s reputation as a hotbed of student activism could hamper their hunt for a job. Kate Chan, a 22-year-old business student at PolyU -- which has had one of the best reputations in Hong Kong among employers, according to the QS World University Rankings -- said she has been grilled in job interviews about the protests.“Sometimes, I feel embarrassed in interviews because of my identity,” she said, adding that potential employers had asked whether she had ever supported or joined “riots” on the campus. “Some people are very against university students. They assume what we are doing is damaging society -- devaluing our existence and contribution.”Kelvin Cheng, a mechanical engineering student who is the PolyU student union’s external vice president, said the physical landscape of the campus has become “a prison from students’ perspective.” He added: “The school is inherently an open, public space. What they are doing now violates the values a university is supposed to have.”PolyU’s “Democracy Wall” -- a notice board managed by the student union where messages were freely posted -- has been monitored by university officials since the security law was implemented in June, Cheng said. A year after the protests, he said, “it’s like there is a deep wound, a crack, but the crack could never be erased.”Among materials on the wall censored by the university: A satirical cartoon depicting Chinese President Xi Jinping with his head in the shape of a virus cell, and a note that said “harbor” in a Chinese character, a reference to Hong Kong.Academic freedomAlso worrisome to the university community have been the dismissals of prominent professors in recent months. Chief among them was Benny Tai, an activist and scholar who initiated the 2014 Occupy Central movement -- the precursor to last year’s protests -- who was fired by the University of Hong Kong in July, despite having tenure. HKU did not disclose the reasons for the decision, saying it was “an internal personnel matter.”His termination will have far-reaching effects, Tai said in a Facebook post. “It marks the end of academic freedom in Hong Kong,” Tai said. “Academic staff in education institutions in Hong Kong are no longer free to make controversial statements to the general public about politically or socially controversial matters.”Social work lecturer Shiu Ka-chun, a pro-democracy lawmaker and fellow Occupy Central leader, said he had been unable to renew his contract with Baptist University in July. The university didn’t give a reason, he said in a Facebook post at the time.A spokesman for Baptist University said in an email that the school “follows established policies and procedures in handling all contract matters” and could not disclose details about a specific case, citing privacy reasons.Tai and Shiu had been sentenced to 16 and eight-month jail terms, respectively, for their roles in the 2014 demonstrations. Tai is on bail awaiting appeal after four months in jail, while Shiu has completed his sentence.Lokman Tsui, an assistant professor at Chinese University who studies freedom of expression, said his tenure application was rejected in June, and he thinks his support of the democracy movement was a factor. He is teaching for the 2020-2021 academic year yet must leave after. He worries that such actions have a chilling effect.“There is a pattern that seems to become clear, where more critical, more vocal teaching staff, research staff are either not getting their contacts renewed or not getting tenure,” Tsui said. “It’s problematic that even the perception of that exists, because that’s a strong incentive to practice self-censorship if you are still teaching or researching.”Academic freedom is protected by the Basic Law -- the city’s mini-constitution -- and is a cornerstone of the higher education sector, a spokesperson for the Education Bureau said in an emailed statement. Universities have institutional autonomy on matters such as selection of staff and students, the spokesperson added, and the national security law should not alter that.“The NSL does not affect normal exchange activities between academics or higher education institutions and their foreign or external counterparts,” the spokesman said.Mainland influenceHKU drew criticism in October when it proposed to appoint a pair of mainland Chinese academics as vice presidents. Zuo-Jun Shen, one of the scholars, was reported by online local media outlet Citizen News to be a Communist Party member, which he denied.Thousands of students, staff and alumni signed a petition protesting the decision, saying it would damage the university’s academic freedom. If the school’s administration hired the pair of academics, “it declares the end of the university’s institutional autonomy,” the petition letter reads.They were both appointed.“There is still more academic freedom in Hong Kong than on the mainland,” said Jeffrey Wasserstrom, a professor of history at the University of California, Irvine, and author of “Vigil: Hong Kong on the Brink. “But what was once a chasm is now quickly becoming merely a gap.”There will be more mainland academics coming to Hong Kong, Baehr said. Hong Kong authorities are more comfortable with academics from mainland China than their Western peers, given their link with Chinese rule, he added.Students coming to Hong Kong from the mainland have been affected, too. “I feel like some classmates, especially local, further distance themselves from us. For mainland students, we increasingly avoid discussing issues linked to political controversies in Hong Kong, which are too sensitive,” said Kevin Hau, a Hong Kong University of Science and Technology student from the Chinese province of Fujian.Hau said he feels like he’s being “monitored by both sides: Local students and mainland authorities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-campus-rocked-by-protest-becomes-prison-a-year-later/story-d75UoIP2xq2pbDR5UK7jcK.html
24-11-2020||World||Pope, for first time, says China’s Uighurs are ‘persecuted’||In a new book, Pope Francis for the first time calls China’s Muslim Uighurs a “persecuted” people, something human rights activists have been urging him to do for years.In the wide-ranging “Let Us Dream: The Path to A Better Future,” Francis also says the Cobvid-19 pandemic should spur governments to consider permanently establishing a universal basic income.In the book, a 150-page collaboration with his English-language biographer, Austen Ivereigh, Francis speaks of economic, social and political changes he says are needed to address inequalities after the pandemic ends. It goes on sale on Dec. 1.He also says people who see wearing masks as an imposition by the state are “victims only in their imagination” and praises those who protested against the death of George Floyd in police custody for rallying around the “healthy indignation” that united them.“I think often of persecuted peoples: the Rohingya, the poor Uighurs, the Yazidi,” he said in a section where he also talks about persecuted Christians in Islamic countries.While the pope has spoken out before about the Rohingya who have fled Myanmar, and the killing of Yazidi by Islamic State in Iraq, it was the first time he mentioned the Uighurs.Faith leaders, activist groups and governments have said crimes against humanity and genocide are taking place against Uighurs in China’s remote Xinjiang region, where more than 1 million people are held in camps.Last month, during a conference at the Vatican, U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo blasted China over its treatment of Uighurs.Beijing has rejected the allegations as a attempt to discredit China, saying the camps are vocational education and training centres as part of counter-terrorism and deradicalisation measures.Many commentators have said the Vatican was reluctant to speak out on the Uighurs earlier because it was in the process of renewing a controversial accord with Beijing on the appointment of bishops. The accord, which Pompeo urged the Vatican to abandon, was renewed in September.Francis also gives his clearest support to date in the book to universal basic income (UBI), a controversial policy espoused by some economists and sociologists in which governments give a fixed amount of money to each citizen with no conditions attached. UBI was a cornerstone of the campaign of Andrew Yang last year during the Democratic presidential primaries in the United States.“Recognising the value to society of the work of nonearnersis a vital part of our rethinking in the post-Covid world. That’s why I believe it is time to explore concepts like the universal basic income (UBI) ...” he said.“By providing a universal basic income, we can free and enable people to work for the community in a dignified way,” he said.Francis again criticised trickle-down economics, the theory favoured by conservatives that tax breaks and other incentives for big business and the wealthy eventually will benefit the rest of society through investment and job creation.He called it “the false assumption of the infamous trickle-down theory that a growing economy will make us all richer.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pope-for-first-time-says-china-s-uighurs-are-persecuted/story-B1ZuSAAauvA961UGYL1oJO.html
24-11-2020||World||Millions of Americans expect to lose their homes as Coronavirus rages||Millions of Americans expect to face eviction by the end of this year, adding to the suffering inflicted by the coronavirus pandemic raging across the USAbout 5.8 million adults say they are somewhat to very likely to face eviction or foreclosure in the next two months, according to a survey completed November 9 by the US Census Bureau. That accounts for a third of the 17.8 million adults in households that are behind on rent or mortgage payments.The CARES Act, signed into law last March, allows homeowners to pause mortgage payments for up to a year if they experience hardship as a result of the pandemic. Borrowers who signed up at the start of the program could face foreclosure by March.The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s(CDC) nationwide temporary suspension on evictions -- aimed at stemming the spread of coronavirus -- is slated to end December 31. The timing is far from ideal given millions of people are also set to lose their unemployment benefits at year-end without an extension from Congress.Roughly half of households not current on their rent or mortgage payments in Arkansas, Florida, and Nevada think there’s a “strong chance” of eviction by early January. This equates to more than 750,000 homes where an eviction is the biggest worry, according to the survey.By metro area, the threat of eviction is most pressing in New York City, Houston, and Atlanta.Coronavirus, which has killed more than 256,000 Americans so far, is on track to claim another 30,000 lives by mid-December, according to forecasts from the CDC. The model shows weekly cases and deaths both rising every week for the next month, the maximum range of the agency’s projection.President-elect Joe Biden in March expressed his support for rent freezes and eviction moratoriums due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/millions-of-americans-expect-to-lose-their-homes-as-coronavirus-rages/story-fxv0n1eXLRBtWCnIkO28tM.html
24-11-2020||World||Michigan certifies Joe Biden as winner after Donald Trump’s bid to toss results||Michigan’s Board of State Canvassers voted to certify the state’s election results, practically ensuring former Vice President Joe Biden’s victory over Donald Trump in the state.The vote means that only a possible Republican request for a recount stands in the way of assuring that Biden will win the Wolverine State and its 16 electoral votes. The board didn’t ask for a recount after certifying the results.One of the board’s two Republican canvassers, Aaron Van Langevelde, sided with Democrats to certify the vote 3-0, while Norm Shinkle, the other Republican member, abstained and called on the Michigan legislature to conduct a full audit of the result.Van Langevelde said that he believes that any irregularities should be investigated, but added that the Board of Canvassers is not the entity to do that. “We have a clear legal duty to certify the results of the election as shown by the returns that were given to us,” he said.The Grand Old Party(GOP) canvassers can request an audit or petition for a recount, but it would be tough to see either overturning Biden’s 150,000-vote margin of victory.Also Read| US Election 2020: Where do things stand in key states?Michigan Governor Gretchen Whitmer, a Democrat who has clashed with Trump over her handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, praised the board’s vote. “The people of Michigan have spoken. President-elect Biden won the State of Michigan by more than 154,000 votes, and he will be our next president on January 20th.”“Democracy has prevailed,” said Michigan Secretary of State Jocelyn Benson in a statement. “Today’s vote of the State Board of Canvassers to certify Michigan’s November election confirms the truth: the election was fair and secure, and the results accurately reflect the will of the voters.”As in other swing states, including Pennsylvania and Georgia, Michigan Republicans have been challenging the vote since Election Day, arguing that there were “irregularities” or out-and-out fraud that muddy the results. In Michigan, the argument was especially tense in Wayne County, home of Detroit and predominantly Black, where Biden won by a large margin.Republican canvassers have been under pressure from the Republican National Committee, which on Saturday asked them not to certify the votes until there is a “full transparent audit” in Wayne County.The fight in the county centered on the fact that 70% of the precincts were out of balance, which typically means there were clerical errors, said Mark Brewer, a Michigan attorney who works with the Democratic Party on voting issues.Those precincts had from one to four votes that were unaccounted for, meaning that the entire fight is over about 450 votes in a county where 862,000 people cast ballots. Biden had a 332,000-vote advantage there.The Trump campaign had filed a lawsuit in Michigan but withdrew it when Wayne County canvassers initially voted against certification.On Friday, Michigan Senate Majority Leader Mike Shirkey and House Speaker Lee Chatfield, both Republicans, said they had “not yet been made aware of any information that would change the outcome of the election in Michigan.”The pair issued a joint statement after meeting at the White House with Trump amid the president’s effort to overturn the state’s vote for Biden. “We will follow the law and follow the normal process regarding Michigan’s electors,” they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/michigan-certifies-joe-biden-as-winner-after-donald-trump-s-bid-to-toss-results/story-L1ua6skKwj4vqnkuZqAhdK.html
24-11-2020||World||Regeneron Covid-19 drug to roll out in 30,000-dose shipment||Thirty thousand doses of Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc.’s antibody cocktail will be shipped Tuesday, after the experimental coronavirus treatment got an emergency authorization from US regulators.Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar detailed plans to distribute the therapy at a news conference on Monday. The drug, called REGN-COV2, received clearance from the US Food and Drug Administration for treatment of mild to moderate Covid-19 in adults and some children of at least 12 years of age.Earlier this year, Regeneron agreed to a $450 million supply deal with Operation Warp Speed, the US program to accelerate the development of vaccines and treatments for Covid-19. The treatment was given to President Donald Trump last month after he contracted the virus.Regeneron said on Saturday it expects to have treatment doses of its drug ready for approximately 80,000 patients by the end of this month, about 200,000 patients by the first week of January, and about 300,000 patients total by the end of January.Patients will require a positive Covid-19 test and a prescription from their physician, government officials said at a Monday briefing. For those who lack a physician, some emergency departments will prescribe it.Sites are also being set up for the medication, which is given as an infusion, including a convention center in Baltimore, Maryland, said Janet Woodcock, director of the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research at the FDA.Shares of Regeneron were up 0.5% at $521.09 at 2:53 p.m. on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/regeneron-covid-19-drug-to-roll-out-in-30-000-dose-shipment/story-dbhAylvfejna1caxKuWQOP.html
24-11-2020||World||China launches robotic spacecraft to retrieve rocks from the moon||China on Tuesday launched a robotic spacecraft to bring back rocks from the moon in the first bid by any country to retrieve samples from the lunar surface since the 1970s, a mission that underscores Chinese ambitions in space.The Long March-5, China’s largest carrier rocket, blasted off at 4:30 am Beijing time (2030 GMT on Monday) in a pre-dawn launch from Wenchang Space Launch Center on the southern Chinese island of Hainan carrying the Chang’e-5 spacecraft. The Chang’e-5 mission, named after the ancient Chinese goddess of the moon, will seek to collect lunar material to help scientists understand more about the moon’s origins and formation. The mission will test China’s ability to remotely acquire samples from space, ahead of more complex missions.State broadcaster CCTV, which ran live coverage of the launch, showed images of China National Space Administration staff in blue uniforms applauding and cheering as they watched the spacecraft climbing through the atmosphere, lighting up the night sky. If successful, the mission would make China only the third country to have retrieved lunar samples, joining the United States and the Soviet Union.Upon entering the moon’s orbit, the spacecraft is intended to deploy a pair of vehicles to the lunar surface: a lander and an ascender. The landing is due to take place in about eight days, according to Pei Zhaoyu, a spokesman for the mission. The probe is due to be on the lunar surface for about two days, while the entire mission is scheduled to take around 23 days. The plan is for the lander to drill into the lunar surface, with a robotic arm scooping out soil and rocks. This material would be transferred to the ascender vehicle, which is due to carry it from the surface and then dock with an orbiting module.The samples then would be transferred to a return capsule for the return trip to Earth, with a landing in China’s Inner Mongolia region.“The biggest challenges ... are the sampling work on the lunar surface, take-off from the lunar surface, rendezvous and docking in the lunar orbit, as well as high-speed re-entry to Earth,” said Pei, also director of the space administration’s Lunar Exploration and Space Engineering Center.“We can conduct sampling through circumlunar and moon- landing exploration, but it is more intuitive to obtain samples to conduct scientific research - the method is more direct,” Pei added. “Plus, there will be more instruments and more methods to study them on Earth.”China, which last year carried out the first landing on the far side of the moon and in July of this year launched a robotic probe to Mars, has other space goals in its sights. It aims to have a permanent manned space station in service around 2022.“From next year, we will carry out the launch mission of our national space station,” said Qu Yiguang, deputy commander of the Long March-5 carrier rocket. Asked when China was planning to put astronauts on the moon, Pei said any decision would be based on scientific needs, as well as technical and economic conditions, adding: “I think future lunar exploration activities should be carried out by a combination of man and machine.”Matt Siegler, a research scientist at the Arizona-based Planetary Science Institute who is not part of Chang’e-5 mission, said the Mons Rumker volcanic area of the moon where the spacecraft is due to land is 1-2 billion years old.“That is very young for the moon - most of our samples are 3.5 billion years old or more,” Siegler said in an email, noting that the area and other similar ones represented “late-stage volcanism” when the moon had enough internal heat for such activity.“We want to find out what is special about these regions and why they remained warm longer than the rest of the moon,” Siegler added. The United States, which currently has plans to return astronauts to the moon by 2024, landed 12 astronauts there in its Apollo programme over six flights from 1969 to 1972, and brought back 382 kg (842 pounds) of rocks and soil. The Soviet Union deployed three successful robotic lunar sample-return missions in the 1970s. The last, the Luna 24, retrieved about 170 grams (6 ounces) of samples in 1976 from a region called Mare Crisium.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-launches-robotic-spacecraft-to-retrieve-rocks-from-the-moon/story-dnlRLTGtCpZGZVw8buoZiJ.html
24-11-2020||World||Joe Biden taps ex-Fed chair Janet Yellen to lead treasury||President-elect Joe Biden has chosen former Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen to serve as treasury secretary, a pivotal role in which she would help shape and direct his economic policies at a perilous time, according to a person familiar with the transition plans.Yellen, who is widely admired in the financial world, would be the first woman to lead the Treasury Department in a line stretching back to Alexander Hamilton in 1789. Her nomination was confirmed to The Associated Press by a person who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss Biden’s plans.If confirmed as treasury secretary, Yellen would inherit a shaky U.S. economy, weakened by the pandemic recession and now in the grip of a surging viral epidemic that is intensifying pressure on businesses and individuals. Concern is rising that the economy could slide into a “double-dip” recession this winter as states and cities reimpose restrictions on businesses and consumers stay home to avoid contracting the disease.Also Read | Ex-Homeland security official Alejandro Mayorkas returns under Joe BidenA path-breaking figure in the male-dominated economics field, Yellen, 74, was also the first woman to serve as Fed chair, from 2014 to 2018. She later became an adviser to Biden’s presidential campaign in an unusual departure for a former Fed leader.The treasury post would add another new chapter to Yellen’s varied career in financial policymaking. She would represent the administration in global financial affairs and lead a sprawling department whose responsibilities range from the government’s finances and tax collections to global currency markets, bank regulation and the printing of money.Yellen would also take on the formidable task of helping negotiate economic policy with Sen. Mitch McConnell, the Kentucky Republican who will remain Senate majority leader if his party wins at least one of two Senate runoff elections in Georgia in early January. Those talks would likely focus most urgently on a new stimulus package that most economists say is vital to sustaining an economic recovery.Also Read | Joe Biden to name Antony Blinken as US secretary of stateJaret Seiberg, a banking industry analyst at Cowen, described Yellen as a “pragmatist” who would likely pursue a relatively moderate path on banking regulation. Stock markets, which had already risen Monday, rose further after news leaked of her selection.Yellen enjoys a close working relationship with Jerome Powell, who succeeded her as Fed chair, something that would likely improve coordination between the Fed and Treasury and perhaps result in additional support for the economy. Powell and the current treasury secretary, Steven Mnuchin, last week publicly disagreed over Mnuchin’s decision to cancel several Fed emergency lending programs at the end of this month.Yellen has consistently favored further stimulus spending for the economy, including for state and local governments, which she has said need “substantial support” to avoid further job cuts. Such rescue aid has been a key sticking point in congressional negotiations on stimulus, with McConnell resisting the larger amounts sought by Democrats.Before leading the Fed, Yellen was its vice chair for four years and previously was president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco for six years. Earlier, under President Bill Clinton, she led the president’s Council of Economic Advisers, after serving a stint on the Fed’s board.Yellen is well-known on Capitol Hill after years of testifying as Fed chair to Senate committees about the economy and interest rate policy. During those years, she frequently clashed with Republican lawmakers who accused her of keeping rates too low for too long after the 2008 financial crisis. Some of them charged that Yellen and her predecessor, Ben Bernanke, had elevated the risk of runaway inflation and asset bubbles that could destabilize financial markets.None of those fears came to pass. On the contrary, under Bernanke and Yellen — and later, under Powell — the Fed’s more difficult challenge became raising inflation merely to the Fed’s annual 2% target level. It has yet to do so consistently.Yellen, a Democrat, had served only one four-year term as Fed chair when President Donald Trump decided to replace her with Powell, a Republican. That move broke a four-decade tradition of presidents allowing Fed chairs to serve at least two terms even if they had first been nominated by a president of the opposing party.Biden had said last week that his choice for treasury secretary would be “someone who I think will be accepted by all elements of the Democratic Party, progressives through the moderate coalition.”Yellen won the support of many progressive groups during the search process, said Jeff Hauser, executive director of the Revolving Door Project, a left-leaning organization, in part because she has endorsed a carbon tax as a way to reduce the emission of greenhouse gases.She is also an expert on unemployment and wages. Under her fenure, the central bank began shifting much of its policy focus from fighting inflation, which has been quiescent for decades, to trying to maximize employment, the second of its two congressional mandates. Yellen won praise for her attention to disadvantaged groups including the long-term unemployed. She made numerous visits to employment training centers to spotlight the need for training programs to equip people for good jobs..When she stepped down from the Fed in early 2018, Shawn Sebastian, co-director of the Fed-Up coalition, a collection of progressive groups, called Yellen’s departure “a loss for working people across the country.” He hailed her efforts to take on “economic inequality, racial disparities in the economy, the role of women in the workplace and the need for more diversity at the Fed.”Yet some progressives have also criticized Yellen for the Fed’s December 2015 decision to raise its benchmark rate from near zero, where it had been pegged since late 2008 in the midst of the financial crisis. That rate hike, which caused a sharp increase in the value of the dollar, contributed to a slowdown in U.S. economic growth in 2016 and is now seen by many economists as having been premature.After leaving the Fed, Yellen became a distinguished fellow in residence at the liberal Brookings Institution in Washington. She did not initially comment about Trump’s decision not to offer her a second term. But in a 2019 interview, Yellen said she didn’t think Trump had a firm grasp of economic policy “or even knows the Federal Reserve’s mandates” to stabilize prices and maximize employment.Yellen is married to George Akerlof, a Nobel Prize-winning economist whom she met in a Fed cafeteria in 1977. They have one son, Robert, who is an economics professor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-taps-ex-fed-chair-janet-yellen-to-lead-treasury/story-5LKC70t7Xi1sXrKWEwjgPK.html
24-11-2020||World||Dosing error turns into lucky punch for AstraZeneca and Oxford||A stroke of good fortune from a dosing error will pave the way for AstraZeneca and Oxford University to submit their Covid-19 vaccine for regulatory clearance.The British drugmaker said on Monday that the vaccine could be around 90% effective, when administered as a half dose followed by a full dose a month later, citing data from late-stage trials in Britain and Brazil.“The reason we had the half-dose is serendipity,” Mene Pangalos, the head of AstraZeneca’s non-oncology research and development, told Reuters.Also Read | Covid-19: Boost for India as Oxford vaccine candidate shot up to 90% successfulA larger group who had received two full doses - as planned - resulted in an efficacy read-out of 62%, leading to an overall efficacy of 70% across both dosing patterns.Around the time when Astra was initiating its partnership with Oxford at the end of April, university researchers were administering doses to trial participants in Britain.They soon noticed expected side effects such as fatigue, headaches or arm aches were milder than expected, he said.“So we went back and checked ... and we found out that they had underpredicted the dose of the vaccine by half,” said Pangalos.He added the company decided to continue with the half dose and administer the full dose booster shot at the scheduled time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/dosing-error-turns-into-lucky-punch-for-astrazeneca-and-oxford/story-tlABbTEx58OvvDL665Q7hP.html
24-11-2020||World||Hong Kong activists including Joshua Wong in custody after guilty protest plea||Three young Hong Kong dissidents including Joshua Wong were remanded into custody on Monday after pleading guilty to inciting a rally during last year’s pro-democracy protests, deepening the crackdown against Beijing’s critics.Hong Kong was convulsed by seven straight months of huge and often violent democracy rallies last year in which millions took to the streets.Beijing has refused demands for free elections and authorities have pursued democracy supporters with criminal cases and a sweeping new national security law. Wong, 24, was prosecuted alongside fellow activists Ivan Lam and Agnes Chow over a protest which took place last summer outside the city police headquarters.“We will continue to fight for freedom -- and now is not the time for us to kowtow to Beijing and surrender,” Wong told reporters on his way to court. ‘Add oil!’Once inside Wong pleaded guilty to inciting and organising an illegal assembly. Lam pleaded guilty to incitement while Chow, 23, admitted inciting and joining the protest.All three were remanded into custody pending sentencing on December 2, meaning a jail term is all but guaranteed.The maximum sentence a magistrate’s court can hand down is three years. “Everyone hang in there. I know it’s tougher for you to remain out there,” Wong shouted inside court. Small groups of supporters surrounded their prison van as they were driven away shouting “Add oil!” and “No rioters, only tyranny!”Add oil is a popular phrase of encouragement in Cantonese while authorities dismissed both peaceful and violent protesters alike last year as rioters.Wong and Lam were later filmed leaving a police van, handcuffed together, and entering a detention facility.‘Mentally prepared’Despite his youth, Wong has already spent time in prison for leading democracy protests and told reporters that he was ready to return. “Emotionally I am reluctant in every way to be jailed but rationally I have absolutely no space to complain in comparison with many others,” he said outside court, in a reference to the hundreds of protest-linked prosecutions already concluded.Chow appeared less self-assured. “If sentenced, this will be my first time in prison,” she wrote in a Facebook post on Sunday. “While I say I have mentally prepared for this, I am still a bit scared.”Wong became an activist when he was in his early teens, organising successful rallies in 2012 against plans to make Hong Kong’s education system more “patriotic” and similar to the mainland. In 2014 he and Chow helped inspire and lead the “Umbrella Movement” -- a 79-day peaceful occupation of three busy intersections by a largely student-led campaign calling for universal suffrage.Wong was jailed for his involvement in those protests, alongside most of that movement’s main leaders.He was still in jail when last year’s much larger democracy protests kicked off, though he made appearances at numerous rallies after his release.However the protests were deliberately leaderless, mostly organised by social media and encrypted chat forums.They were also much more violent. Riot police unleashed thousands of rounds of tear gas and rubber bullets and were frequently filmed using batons to beat arrested demonstrators. Their headquarters was besieged on multiple occasions with crowds hurling eggs and daubing its walls with graffiti.Small groups of hardline activists resorted to rocks, petrol bombs and even bows and arrows.More than 10,000 people were arrested and most of Hong Kong’s leading activists and opposition figures now face prosecution.Arrests and gatherings bannedThe demonstrations petered out at the start of the year thanks to fatigue, mass arrests and the emergence of the coronavirus.An anti-pandemic ban on more than four people gathering in public has remained in place for most of this year.Beijing has also imposed a broad security law which ramps up its direct control over the semi-autonomous city and outlaws certain political views.Demosisto, the pro-democracy party that Wong, Lam and Chow were in, disbanded when the security law came in because their desire for greater self-determination was now illegal.Pro-democracy lawmakers have also been disqualified and local legislature elections delayed for a year.Authorities say they have returned much-needed stability to the global trade hub.Critics counter that opposition to Beijing’s rule remains widespread despite the lack of street protests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-activists-including-joshua-wong-in-custody-after-guilty-protest-plea/story-PqUiZ3RLeNNRzrmzsYWJLP.html
24-11-2020||World||Joe Biden to name Antony Blinken as US secretary of state||US President-elect Joe Biden will name Antony Blinken - a long-time national security and foreign policy expert who is enthusiastic about ties with India and sees China as a “common challenge” - as his secretary of state on Tuesday, according to an announcement by his transition team.Biden will also name other members of his national security team: Alejandro Mayorkas as secretary of the department of homeland security who is the first Latino to be named to this position; Linda Thomas-Greenfield as UN ambassador; former secretary of state John Kerry as special presidential envoy for climate who will sit on the National Security Council; Avril Haines as director of National Intelligence who will be the first woman to lead the US intelligence community; and Jake Sullivan.“We have no time to lose when it comes to our national security and foreign policy. I need a team ready on day one to help me reclaim America’s seat at the head of the table, rally the world to meet the biggest challenges we face, and advance our security, prosperity and values,” Biden said in a statement, announcing these names. “This is the crux of that team. These individuals are equally as experienced and crisis-tested as they are innovative and imaginative. Their accomplishments in diplomacy are unmatched, but they also reflect the idea that we cannot meet the profound challenges of this new moment with old thinking and unchanged habits - or without diversity of background and perspective. It’s why I’ve selected them,” Biden added.Vice-president-elect Kamala Harris said, “These crisis-tested national security and foreign policy leaders have the knowledge and expertise to keep our country safe, and restore and advance America’s leadership around the world. They represent the best of America.”Blinken, who served as deputy secretary of state in the Obama-Biden administration, has been a front-runner for the position of Biden’s top diplomat. He was also the Biden campaign’s chief foreign policy official.In an outreach to the Indian-American community in the run-up to the election, Blinken had described China as a “common challenge”, taking into cognizance China’s “aggression” towards India at the Line of Actual Control.Speaking generally on ties with India, he had said, “We will be an advocate for India to play a leading role in international institutions, and that includes helping India get a seat on a reformed United Nations Security Council. We will work together to strengthen India’s defence.”Blinken had gone on to reiterate long-running US commitment to combating terrorism, making common cause with India. “We have no tolerance for terrorism in South Asia or anywhere else, cross-border or otherwise,” Blinken had said, adding, “We used every tool at our disposal to make sure that our citizens, and the citizens of our partners, are safe. And that’s something we will build on in a Biden administration.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-to-name-antony-blinken-as-us-secretary-of-state/story-VcSdAiW9xBAEyiQaaHAprI.html
24-11-2020||World||Joe Biden’s likely secretary of state pick Antony Blinken sees China as a ‘common challenge’ for India, US||US President-elect Joe Biden is expected to appoint Antony Blinken, a long-time national security and foreign policy expert who has been enthusiastic about ties with India and called China a “common challenge”, as his secretary of state, US media has reported.Blinken, who served as deputy secretary of state in the Obama administration, had been a front-runner for the position of Biden’s top diplomat. He was also the Biden campaign’s chief foreign policy official.In an outreach to the Indian-American community in the run-up to the election - on August 15, to commemorate the Indian Independence Day - Blinken described China as a “common challenge”, taking into cognizance China’s “aggression” towards India at the Line of Actual Control.Speaking generally of ties with India, he had said, “We will be an advocate for India to play a leading role in international institutions and that includes helping India get a seat on… United Nations Security Council. We will work together to strengthen India’s defence.”Blinken had gone on to reiterate long-running US commitment to combating terrorism, making common cause with India. “We have no tolerance for terrorism in South Asia or anywhere else, cross-border or otherwise,” Blinken had said, adding, “We used every tool at our disposal to make sure that our citizens and the citizens of our partners are safe. And that’s something we will build on in a Biden administration.”Outgoing President Donald Trump’s efforts to overturn his defeat to Biden continued in the meantime. His campaign has challenged the dismissal of a lawsuit last weekend and removed a member of the legal team, Sidney Powell, who had made wild claims about election fraud and levelled corruption charges against Brian Kemp, the Republican governor of Georgia, a state that Trump lost in the 2020 contest.Michigan board of canvassers is scheduled to vote on Monday to certify Biden’s victory by more than 154,000 votes. Its two Republican members can deadlock the four-member body by asking for a delay to audit the result, which could result in litigation or delays.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-s-likely-secretary-of-state-pick-antony-blinken-sees-china-as-a-common-challenge-for-india-us/story-vTdGrWqlx9lVKFTrjLpgQK.html
24-11-2020||India||President Kovind to inaugurate All India Presiding Officers’ conference in Gujarat’s Kevadia||President Ram Nath Kovind will inaugurate the 80th All India Presiding Officers’ conference in Gujarat’s Kevadia on Wednesday.The two-day conference is being organised by the Lok Sabha to celebrate the Constitution Day, according to a statement issued by the Rashtrapati Bhavan on Tuesday. “The President of India, Ram Nath Kovind, will visit Gujarat (Kevadia) tomorrow (November 25, 2020) to inaugurate the 80th All India Presiding Officers’ Conference,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-kovind-to-inaugurate-all-india-presiding-officers-conference-in-gujarat-s-kevadia/story-fzqt59rhA5oX5Dqef5BsUK.html
24-11-2020||India||Jailed Lalu Prasad trying to lure NDA MLAs by promising ministerial berths: Sushil Modi||Ahead of the Speaker’s election for the newly constituted 17th Bihar Assembly on Wednesday, former deputy chief minister and senior BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi on Tuesday alleged that jailed RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav was trying to topple the NDA government by talking to ruling coalition MLAs over the phone to lure them by promising ministerial berths. The senior BJP leader also indicated the phone number from which the jailed RJD chief purportedly made calls, on his Twitter handle. In a tweet late on Tuesday evening, Modi said, “Lalu Yadav making telephone calls (8051216302) from Ranchi to NDA MLAs & promising ministerial berths. When I telephoned, Lalu directly picked up. I said don’t do these dirty tricks from jail, you will not succeed.” The RJD chief is at present lodged at the bungalow of the Superintendent of the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences, Ranchi, post conviction in fodder scam cases.The allegation has come just a night before the crucial election for the Speaker’s post in the state assembly tomorrow when the chief minister Nitish Kumar-led NDA government will face the first test of strength in ensuring the win of the coalition’s official candidate to the top post. Vijay Kumar Sinha has been pitted against the RJD-led Grand Alliance candidate Awadh Bihari Choudhary. The RJD-led Grand Alliance has already upped the ante against the ruling NDA government since the November 10 election results of the state assembly polls, which gave the ruling coalition a thin majority above the halfway mark of 122. The GA, having won 110 seats, had alleged it lost 20 seats to election manipulation and claimed the people’s mandate had not been honoured. The fresh allegation by the senior BJP leader against the incarcerated RJD chief of trying to destabilize the state government is likely to intensify the feud between the ruling and opposition in the state in the coming days. Many also feel, it indicates how the NDA having the support of smaller allies like the Vikasheel Insaan Party (VIP) and Hindustani Awam Morcha –Secular (HAM) (S) is vulnerable to defections. RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwary said the allegations levelled by Modi were all baseless and were an attempt to remain in the limelight by the senior BJP leader. “Modi suffers from Lalu phobia. He is making all these allegations to remain in the limelight after not being given the post of deputy CM this time. All these allegations of luring NDA MLAs are baseless and concocted,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jailed-lalu-prasad-trying-to-lure-nda-mlas-by-promising-ministerial-berths-sushil-modi/story-R0JWgzLPtil4Bm9y4tVPxK.html
24-11-2020||India||President Kovind worships at Tirupati Balaji temple||President Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday offered prayers at the famous hill shrine of Lord Venkateswara at nearby Tirumala. An ardent devotee of the ancient hill shrine, the President, accompanied by his family members, was accorded a ceremonial traditional reception, upon his arrival at the main entrance by the priests, amid chanting Vedic hymns. He was conducted to the sanctum sanctorum of the over 2000-year old temple by the priests along with TTD Board Chairman YV Subba Reddy and Executive Officer K S Jawahar Reddy, a temple official told PTI. Kovind was honoured by offering a sacred silk cloth, a holy portrait along with “laddu prasadam”, the official said. The president spent about half-an-hour in the shrine and before leaving he was bestowed with blessings by a band of senior priests amid chanting spiritual mantras. The official also said that before visiting the Lord Venkateswara temple, Kovind paid his obeisances at Sri Lakshmi Varaha Swamy temple situated on the banks of the massive holy tank at Tirumala. Andhra Pradesh Governor Biswabhusan Harichandan accompanied the President during his visit to the temple. Earlier, Kovind arrived here on a six-hour spiritual visit. Governor Harichandan, Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy and others accorded a warm reception to the President and the First Lady as they landed in the Tirupati airport at Renigunta from Chennai. After receiving the President, Jaganmohan Reddy left for Tadepalli near Vijayawada to take part in the Prime Minister’s virtual conference with Chief Ministers on Covid-19 related matters, a government official said. Later, the President and the First Lady drove to the temple of Goddess Sri Padmavati at Tiruchanoor here and offered special prayers. After the darshan of the Goddess, the first couple was presented ‘Veda Aasirvachanam’ at the temple. Tight security arrangements had been made and considering the Covid-19 situation, all top officials who took part in the President’s programme were subjected to coronavirus tests earlier, he added. The president later returned to Chennai by an IAF plane. Earlier in the day, on his arrival from Delhi by Air India One-B777, on its first flight, Kovind was received at the Chennai airport by Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit, Chief Minister K Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-kovind-worships-at-tirupati-balaji-temple/story-H1bqhbzpZ7vpU0Y30zoiSL.html
24-11-2020||India||BSF hands over intruder’s body to Pak Rangers after establishing identify||The Border Security Force on Tuesday handed over the body of an intruder to Pak Rangers on the zero line on the international border in Samba sector. He was shot dead by the BSF jawans on Monday evening near Chak Fakira border outpost in Samba sector. “A flag meeting was conducted with Pak Rangers near border pillar number 64 in connection with handing over the dead body of Pak national killed on Monday. Eleven troops of BSF and 15 troops of Pak Rangers participated in the meeting,” said a BSF spokesperson. Also Read: Gadgets used by Pak’s 4 Jaish terrorists help India solve Jan 31 terror strikeDuring the flag meeting, BSF troops asked Pak Rangers to identify the killed Pak national and to provide documents in support. “After receipt of documents pertaining to identification of the killed Pak national, his body was handed over to Pak Rangers on proper receipt and with full honour,” said the spokesman. The deceased has been identified as Abdul Hamid, son of Rojdeen of Chaman Khurd in Shakargarh area of Pakistan’s Punjab province.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-hands-over-intruder-s-body-to-pak-rangers-after-establishing-identify/story-VWb9HrkwXzjZklLgzvqgNI.html
24-11-2020||India||Sweden says it sees no signs herd immunity is stopping coronavirus||There’s little evidence that herd immunity is helping Sweden combat the coronavirus, according to the country’s top epidemiologist.“The issue of herd immunity is difficult,” Anders Tegnell said at a briefing in Stockholm on Tuesday. “We see no signs of immunity in the population that are slowing down the infection right now.”Swedes have been more exposed to the virus than their neighbors elsewhere in the Nordic region, and every third Stockholmer tested has antibodies, according to figures published this week. That’s after the country famously opted against a lockdown, relying instead on voluntary measures.Tegnell has in the past said that herd immunity is hard to measure and even questioned official figures. Swedish authorities have made clear that immunity isn’t a policy goal, but the nation’s exposure to the virus makes it an obvious test case for observing the theory.Read more | 2 viruses closely related to coronavirus found in Japan, CambodiaIn a recent OECD study, Sweden consistently ranked among the hardest hit nations in Europe, as measured by relative Covid mortality and infection rates. It was also the slowest at containing transmission.Sweden was recently forced to recalibrate its approach against the virus, as the daily Covid death rate topped 7,000. In what Prime Minister Stefan Lofven called an “unprecedented” step earlier this month, Swedes will no longer be free to gather in public in groups larger than eight. The sale of alcohol is now also banned after 10 p.m.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe new restrictions come amid warnings that Sweden’s intensive care beds are quickly filling up. Meanwhile, authorities in the country are warning against placing too much weight on a possible future vaccine.“We are still seeing an increase in patients who need care and intensive care,” Thomas Linden, a departmental head at Sweden’s National Board of Health and Welfare, said at Tuesday’s briefing. “One must not take the fact that there is a vaccine a few months away as an indication to be careless with measures.”“In a third wave, the health-care system will be even more strained than it has been so far,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/sweden-says-it-sees-no-signs-herd-immunity-is-stopping-coronavirus/story-LcCug6VXjI1NldiVU5wHrN.html
24-11-2020||India||Confusion over suitable cremation site for former Assam CM Tarun Gogoi||A day after his demise on Monday due to post-Covid-19 complications, there is no decision yet on where veteran Congress leader and former Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi will be cremated. The 84-year-old had passed away on Monday evening at the Guwahati Medical College Hospital (GMCH) and a decision was taken that the cremation would take place on Thursday in Guwahati. The Assam Congress unit has asked the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government in the state to allot a plot of land within the city for the cremation, but the latter is yet to take any decision on it. “We are looking at a plot in Amingaon (on the north bank of Brahmaputra on the outskirts of Guwahati) where we may be able to conduct the last rites on Thursday morning,” health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Tuesday. Guwahati has two public cremation grounds, Bhootnath and Navagraha, but the Congress had asked for two other spots within the city where the cremation could be conducted and a memorial set up. “We had a discussion on this with Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal. But the areas sought by Congress fall under wetlands and can’t be allotted for other purposes as per law. Sonapur and Amingaon (both on the outskirts of Guwahati) would be more suitable,” said Sarma. “We had asked the Kamrup (Metropolitan) district administration to look for suitable plots within Guwahati, if possible. But they haven’t been able to find any such place where the cremation can take place. I hope the Congress understands this,” he added. Sarma mentioned that Gogoi’s family hasn’t made any request for a specific spot in Guwahati for the cremation and the demand for a separate area for last rites and construction of a memorial has come from the Congress’s state unit. There were requests from residents in Titabar, the assembly constituency in Jorhat district which Gogoi represented, to conduct the last rites there. But Gogoi’s family has told the state government that they want the cremation to take place in Guwahati. Despite repeated attempts, senior leaders from Assam Congress were not available for their comments as they are busy with functions associated with paying last respects to Gogoi. “We are prepared to conduct the last rites on Thursday. Any decision on the place where it will be done will be taken by the state government,” said Biswajit Pegu, deputy commissioner, Kamrup (Metropolitan). Guwahati doesn’t have any specific memorial spot for former chief ministers and other dignitaries. A memorial for Bharat Ratna Bhupen Hazarika, one of Assam’s foremost cultural icons, constructed at a plot given by Gauhati University, is the only such place in the city. Assembly elections are due in Assam in March-April next year and Gogoi’s death and cremation could become a political tug-of-war between opposition Congress and ruling BJP. Earlier on Tuesday, Gogoi’s body was taken from GMCH to his official residence. From there it was taken to the state secretariat and the Assam Congress head office. In the afternoon, it was shifted to Srimanta Sankardeva Kalakshetra where the public will be allowed to pay tribute on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/confusion-over-suitable-cremation-site-for-former-assam-cm-tarun-gogoi/story-FitbA3DM54O9LMRV6Lc4wI.html
24-11-2020||India||Statewide public holiday declared in Tamil Nadu tomorrow ahead of Cyclone Nivar||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami declared a statewide public holiday on Wednesday as Cyclone Nivar is expected to cross Tamil Nadu-Puducherry coasts between Karaikal and Mamallapuram tomorrow evening.“The severe cyclonic storm is expected to cross between Karaikal and Mamallapuram around Puducherry by tomorrow evening. Under the influence of this cyclone, rainfall is expected to continue up to 27th November in Tamil Nadu,” S Balachandran, IMD Chennai said.IMD said on Tuesday that the cyclone has a wind speed of 100-110 kmph and gusting to 120 kmph. The coastal areas of Tamil Nadu are expected to receive heavy rain between November 23-26.With the onset of the cyclone, rains started pouring heavily in the Thiruvarur district on Tuesday evening.“Extremely heavy rainfall expected in coastal and north interior Tamil Nadu districts on November 25. The most vulnerable zone is north Tamil Nadu districts,” Dr Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, Director General (DG), IMD said today.As a precautionary measure, on behalf of the Tamil Nadu Railway Police, a team of disaster rescue and swimmers were also put on standby.“As many as 12 teams are positioned in Tamil Nadu, two teams in Puducherry and one team in Karaikal for monitoring the situation. Three teams are also positioned in Nellore while one team is in Chittoor. Additional three teams are pre-positioned in Vizag. Total 22 teams available on the ground and eight teams on standby. Total 30 teams committed to tackling the cyclone,” DG stated.Following the IMD warning about the cyclone posing a grave danger to life and health and safety of the public, Section 144, prohibiting the assembly of more than four people, has been imposed in Puducherry, beginning Tuesday night. It will continue till the morning of November 26, Puducherry’s District Magistrate informed.Prime Minister Narendra Modi has assured the chief ministers of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry all possible supports from the Centre.Indian Navy also informed that five flood relief teams and a diving team is ready for deployment at Chennai.“One flood relief team each on standby at Naval Detachment Nagapattinam, Rameswaram and air station INS Parundu. INS Jyoti deployed with HADR brick and diving teams along Tamil Nadu and Puducherry coast,” Indian Navy stated.RK Jenamani, senior scientist, IMD said, Nivar Cyclone is currently 50km south-west of Chennai and is moving north-westward.“The prediction is that it is likely to move towards Tamil Nadu coast and cross close to Puducherry at around 5 pm tomorrow. It will intensify further,” he added.Puducherry has installed ‘Number 7 storm warning cage at the port areas’ in response to the cyclonic storm, which means the port will experience severe weather from a storm of light or moderate-intensity that is expected to cross over or near the port.Moreover, a disaster rescue team of 40 people have reached Puducherry with the safety equipment to deal with the storm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/statewide-public-holiday-declared-in-tamil-nadu-tomorrow-ahead-of-cyclone-nivar/story-jD1rpwwu3QFgNtCwi2KJAK.html
24-11-2020||India||Odisha’s Rs 20 crore gold heist was an inside job, cops unearth plot||The fear of getting caught in the audit in a case of embezzlement may have led to the heist of 39.5 kg of gold jewellery and Rs 4 lakh cash from branch of a non-banking financial company in Cuttack town last week, Odisha police said on Tuesday, after claiming to have cracked the daylight heist.Police said 7 persons have been detained in the case and would eventually be arrested formally.Four armed men wearing masks and helmets had entered the Nayasarak branch office of the IIFL Finance, an NBFC, at around 9.50am on November 19, threatening the lone unarmed security guard at gunpoint. In a space of 10 minutes, the miscreants decamped with gold jewellery worth Rs 20 crore that were mortgaged by hundreds of IIFL customers for various loans. The robbers had locked the bank staff in the office toilet before they committed the robbery.Bhubaneswar-Cuttack commissioner of police Sudhansu Sarangi said the robbery was planned by one Lala Amrit Ray, who worked in the Nayasarak branch of IIFL for the last 5 years.“During a recent audit by IIFL officials, Ray’s role in embezzlement of some gold jewellery was revealed. But the company was unaware of his criminal antecedents. He was involved in many irregularities in the past and managed to sweep those under the carpet by winning over the past auditors. When a new auditor joined and raised the issue of irregularities, Ray got worried and staged the heist to mask the irregularities,” said Sarangi.Ray’s brother Lala Ranjan Ray, who worked in another gold-leasing firm, too, was arrested for embezzlement of 1 kg gold in his company. Ray, who was involved in that case, could not be arrested then as he had secured a bail from the high court.Police said Ray took help of his childhood friend Bapu alias Ranjan Behera of Biswanathpur village in Cuttack district. On Thursday, Ranjan Behera got four others -- Rajakishore Sahu, Biju alias Prakash Sahu, Bapi alias Santosh Bhoi and Padia alias Pradipta Behera -- from his village to arrive at the bank soon after it opened.“The insider role as well the negligence in security was too glaring. The alarm was not working for the past several months and the CCTV camera had gone kaput. The regular guard with a gun was not present. Even something as basic as opening the digital locker through OTP mechanism was also not being followed by the company,” said Sarangi.On the day of the robbery, the masked miscreants took away mobile phones of the employees and locked them in a room in order to prevent them from informing police.The police commissioner said no video footage was available with the branch’s head office in Mumbai as the CCTV in Cuttack branch was defunct. “No steps were taken to repair the alarm system which would have cost them less than Rs 200 to 300. So many lapses did take investigators by surprise. It was a blind case. Although we knew it was a well-planned bank robbery, we did not have any clue,” said Sarangi.Police have recovered around 2 kgs of gold ornaments and further investigations were on.“We are still not sure how much gold was looted, though the company in its FIR claimed a heist of 39.5 kg of gold. We have come to know that some of the stolen gold has been kept in another gold leasing company. Only after proper audits, we will be in a position to ascertain how much gold ornaments were actually looted. When an employee of the organization is involved in the case, it is difficult to reveal how much gold was mortgaged. There could be many ghost loanees,” said the commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-s-rs-20-crore-gold-heist-was-an-inside-job-cops-unearth-plot/story-P9ITK6bzfQo7rDhJny40wL.html
24-11-2020||India||‘Why Section 124A?’ Bombay HC’s scathing remark over sedition charges against Kangana Ranaut||The Bombay high court on Tuesday questioned the invoking of sedition charges against actor Kangana Ranaut and her sister Rangoli Chandel. A complaint was filed against them for allegedly “trying to create hatred and communal tension” through their social media posts.Later, an FIR was registered following an order from Bandra Metropolitan Magistrate, directing the police to carry out an inquiry against Ranaut and her sister. Ranaut’s lawyer had filed a petition seeking an interim stay on the summons issued by the Mumbai Police, in which the sisters were asked to appear for questioning.A division bench of Justices SS Shinde and MS Karnik heard the petition filed through advocate Rizwan Siddiquee. While the court granted interim protection to the sisters from arrest, it directed them to appear before Mumbai police on January 8.Also Read | Kangana Ranaut, sister granted interim protection by Bombay HCHere’s what the court said before granting protection from arrest:Ranaut’s lawyer, Siddiquee, argued that his client was out of Mumbai to attend a wedding ceremony and all the summons were responded via statements. He said that the answers were also sent to investigating officers.“Whatever it is, you have to honour the summons,” replied Justice SS Shinde. Siddiquee later apprised the court that Ranaut and her sister will be able to come to Mumbai in the first weekend of January.The police had to face tough questions for adding Section 124A of the Indian Penal Code in the FIR. “Are you treating citizens of the country like this? 124A?” asked Justice Shinde. “We understand other sections. But 124A?” he reiterated his question.During the hearing, the judge said the police would have filed the FIR if the case was serious, but it was filed only after the Magistrate passed the order. Justice Shinde also observed that the High Cout has been giving protection under Section 482 in appropriate cases.Before recording Siddiquee’s submission on the date of recording his clients’ statements, the bench again highlighted the frequent use of sedition charges.“Why the police is invoking Section 124A IPC in such cases? In many cases, 124A is invoked. You conduct proper workshops for officers as to which sections should be invoked,” Justice Shinde told the Prosecutor.“If anybody does not fall within the line of the government, will that be sedition?” he asked again, before passing the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-section-124a-bombay-hc-s-scathing-remark-over-sedition-charges-against-kangana-ranaut/story-XIztIafLKxHParQWvXIOmO.html
24-11-2020||India||‘Sufficient material to proceed against Umar Khalid’: Delhi court after taking cognizance of riots conspiracy chargesheet||A Delhi court on Tuesday accepted the fresh supplementary chargesheet filed by Delhi Police against Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) scholar Umar Khalid and research scholar Sharjeel Imam in a conspiracy case in connection with the Northeast Delhi violence.After considering the chargesheet, the court said that there is sufficient material to proceed against Khalid, Imam and Faizan Khan for offences under provisions of Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). They werre booked under the provisions of the stringent law by the Special Cell of the Delhi Police.The police had on Sunday filed a supplementary chargesheet against Khalid and Imam pertaining to a larger conspiracy behind the violence that took place in areas of Northeast of Delhi between February 24 and 26. Both have been arrested by the Delhi Police.According to the police, the present case pertains to a multi-layered conspiracy and pre-planned riots in Delhi. Police have submitted that on March 6, specific information was received in the Crime Branch that the communal riots from February 24 to 26 in Delhi were pre-planned and the same was hatched by Khalid and his associates.More than 750 cases were registered over the Northeast Delhi violence, in which at least 53 people were killed and several others were injured. So far, over 250 chargesheets have been filed in the riots related cases in which 1,153 accused have been charge-sheeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sufficient-material-to-proceed-against-umar-khalid-delhi-court-after-taking-cognizance-of-riots-conspiracy-chargesheet/story-P7SXIOHV8T1LC0MaAR84lN.html
24-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9pm: SC seeks Centre’s response on petition to fix uniform rate for RT-PCR test and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.SC notice to Centre to fix uniform rate for RT-PCR test after petitioner alleges lootThe Supreme Court on Tuesday sought a response from the Centre on a petition seeking fixation of uniform ceiling on the RT-PCR test for detection of Coronovirus disease (Covid-19) across the country. The petition filed by a lawyer Ajay Agrawal demanded that the rate throughout the country for this test should be fixed at a maximum of Rs 400 as he produced ‘evidence’ of a Nagpur-based supplier who is willing to provide RT-PCR test kits for as cheap as Rs 200. Read moreUP govt brings ordinance against unlawful religious conversionsThe Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday brought an ordinance against unlawful religious conversions. The decision was taken at a cabinet meeting, minister Siddharth Nath Singh said on Tuesday. The UP prohibition of unlawful religious conversion ordinance 2020 makes provision for declaring a marriage null and void if the marriage is solemnised for the primary purpose of converting a woman from one religion to other. Read moreIndian government bans 220 apps: Here’s the entire listThe Indian government today banned 43 apps in the country. The action, the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology said, was taken as these apps were ‘prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order.’ Read more‘India will play five T20Is’ - Sourav Ganguly gives details of England home seriesAs India would be hosting England next year, BCCI President Sourav Ganguly on Tuesday revealed that there will a 5-match T20I series between both teams. He stated that it’s going to be a full-fledged tour of four Tests, three ODIs and five T20Is. Read moreShaheer Sheikh announces engagement to girlfriend Ruchikaa Kapoor: ‘Excited for the rest of my life’Television actor Shaheer Sheikh and Ruchikaa Kapoor, the Creative Producer and Executive Vice President at Balaji Motion Pictures, are engaged. He took to Instagram to announce the happy news along with a picture of her flaunting her engagement ring. “#TuHasdiRave excited for the rest of my life.. #ikigai,” he wrote. Read moreSana Khan - Mufti Anas Sayied wedding: Sana shares unseen images of her ‘Walima look’ with fans. Pics and details of her outfit hereSana Khan’s surprisingly sudden and secret nuptials to Gujarat-based religious scholar Mufti Anas Sayied in the midst of the coronavirus pandemic took the internet by storm, and soon went viral. Sana has since been posting glimpses of herself along with her better half on her social media. In her latest post, Sana gave her fans the complete details of her ‘Walima’ look. See hereWoman creates ‘social distancing dress’ with a 6-ft radius. Can you guess how long it took to make? A true artist can find inspiration in even the most obscure things. This notion is probably proven best by Instagram user Shay who, influenced by the current circumstances, made a ‘social distancing dress’. In no ways an easy feat, this creation took two months to design. The process of production is as fascinating as the finished product is beautiful. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9pm-sc-seeks-centre-s-response-on-petition-to-fix-uniform-rate-for-rt-pcr-test-and-all-the-latest-news/story-xnmKs24KIhxGCNj29MfSGM.html
24-11-2020||India||Army Chief Naravane in Nagaland as part of 3-day visit to eastern command||Chief of army staff General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Tuesday arrived in Kohima as part of his three-day visit to various formations under the army’s eastern command to review security and operational preparedness, officials said.Upon arrival, the army chief called on Nagaland governor RN Ravi at the Raj Bhavan and later met chief minister Neiphiu Rio apart from other top army and security officials. The meetings were held to mainly review the security situation in the state, officials informed. He assured the support of the army and Assam Rifles in maintaining peace and tranquillity in Nagaland and ensuring security along the Indo-Myanmar border.Governor Ravi, who is also the Centre’s interlocutor for Naga peace talks, was reportedly in Delhi for some time but rushed back on Monday to receive the army chief.General Naravane will be leaving for Delhi on Wednesday. However, prior to his departure, he is scheduled to visit the Kohima Orphanage and Destitute Home and inaugurate a new residential facility to be run by the Assam Rifles.Also Read: India test-fires land-attack version of BrahMos missile: ReportAccording to a defence release, the army chief, who landed in Nagaland’s Dimapur on Monday, was briefed by the General Officer Commanding in Chief, Eastern Command Lieutenant General Anil Chauhan, and GOC Spear Corps Lieutenant General RP Kalita on operational preparedness along the Northern borders as well as operations in hinterland of Assam, Nagaland, Manipur and Arunachal Pradesh. He was also briefed on the progress of the ongoing Naga peace talks. On Tuesday, the army chief flew to neighbouring Manipur before arriving at Kohima where he is stated to have visited various army and Assam Rifles headquarters to make a firsthand assessment of the ground situation.General Naravane had earlier served as the Inspector General of Assam Rifles (North) based in Kohima.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-chief-naravane-in-nagaland-as-part-of-3-day-visit-to-eastern-command/story-zXKgHpBH6OSk4OObFgBWuI.html
24-11-2020||India||SC notice to Centre to fix uniform rate for RT-PCR test after petitioner alleges loot||The Supreme Court on Tuesday sought a response from the Centre on a petition seeking fixation of uniform ceiling on the RT-PCR test for detection of Coronovirus disease (COVID-19) across the country.The petition filed by a lawyer Ajay Agrawal demanded that the rate throughout the country for this test should be fixed at a maximum of Rs 400 as he produced ‘evidence’ of a Nagpur-based supplier who is willing to provide RT-PCR test kits for as cheap as Rs 200.A three-judge bench headed by the Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde agreed to issue notice to the Centre and fixed the matter for hearing after two weeks. On the next day of hearing, the court will examine this issue along with a pending petition that has demanded subsidized treatment for Covid-19 patients at private hospitals.Agrawal raised this issue in public interest as he pointed out to the court that presently states were charging citizens at will. Delhi, for instance, fixed the rate for RT-PCR testing kits at Rs 2,400 while Andhra Pradesh has pegged it as high as Rs 2,900. Haryana had the lowest rate of Rs 900 per test kit, while West Bengal and Karnataka have last month revised these rates at Rs 1,500-1,600. Meanwhile, in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh, with effect from October 31, government hospitals/laboratories are charging Rs 600 per test while private hospitals in the state continue to charge Rs 1600 per test.“The RT-PCR kits are presently available for less than Rs 200. The deponent has received a latest quotation (for RT-PCR kits) dated November 21 from Orange City Glassco Private Limited, based in Nagpur for Rs 199 plus discount up to Rs 25 on bulk purchase….there is no additional cost as the machines used for RT-PCR test are already there with the laboratories as they use it to conduct large number of tests for (testing) other infectious diseases such as HIV, Hepatitis, dengue, tuberculosis, malaria, etc,” Agrawal stated in his petition.Also Read: Centre asks CMs to form vaccination panel, identify the vulnerable. Most say they are readyHe urged the Court to urgently consider the matter as in the wake of the rising number of Covid-19 cases, the citizens have to conduct this test at the earliest.The petition said, “Crores of people have lost their jobs and maximum people are unemployed….It is the work of a welfare state to see the welfare of the people and stop this type of loot.” Even at Rs 400, the petitioner claimed that private establishments can still make profit as most of the private labs/hospitals have already installed the test machines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-notice-to-centre-to-fix-uniform-rate-for-rt-pcr-test-after-petitioner-alleges-loot/story-xMLB6vsIjpya49KQA4AhjI.html
24-11-2020||India||Karnataka Congress president DK Shivakumar to appear before CBI on Wednesday||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar, who is facing a slew of cases by the Income Tax department and Enforcement Directorate (ED) in connection with disproportionate assets, is expected to appear before the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) for questioning on November 25. The central agency had summoned Shivakumar on November 23 but he had asked for a fresh date.The CBI had recovered Rs 50 lakh in cash during the searches conducted on premises of Shivakumar, and brother MP DK Suresh, on October 5. The raids were conducted at Shivakumar’s residence at Doddalahalli, Kanakapura and Sadashiva Nagar, in Bengaluru, apart from others.The case was registered after a seven-month-long preliminary enquiry looking into disproportionate assets Shivakumar amassed in his and his family members’ name during his tenure as a minister in the Karnataka government, the CBI claimed.The CBI has calculated assets held and acquired, and expenditure incurred by Shivakumar and his family members between April 1, 2013 and April 30, 2018 called as check period.According to the CBI FIR, Shivakumar and his family members held assets to the tune of Rs 33.92 crore, as per election affidavit, at the beginning of the check period which swelled to Rs 162.53 crore at the end.The agency has alleged that after taking into account expenditure and income during the period, Shivakumar and family members have assets worth Rs 74.93 crore, about 44.93 per cent of total income during the period, which are disproportionate to known sources of income.This is the first case by the CBI against Shivakumar, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president and an MLA, who was earlier arrested by the ED in a case of alleged money laundering, they said.The Congress has continuously accused the BJP-led central government of “witch-hunt”, and linked the CBI action to the November 3 by-election in two assembly seats in Karnataka.Earlier, the ED had arrested Shivakumar in September last year on charges of money laundering. He was released from jail on October 23 after the Delhi High Court granted him bail.Shivakumar, who was appointed chief of the Congress’ Karnataka state unit in March this year, had been a minister in the Siddaramaiah Government of the Congress as well as the JDS-Congress Government led by HD Kumaraswamy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-congress-president-dk-shivakumar-to-appear-before-cbi-on-wednesday/story-refgsgj3v7hB04ZWvAKAbN.html
24-11-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine will be available in near future: ICMR scientist tells Allahabad High Court||Scientist at the Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases Division of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), Dr Nivedita Gupta, on Tuesday apprised the Allahabad High Court about the status of the Covid-19 vaccine. Dr Gupta informed the court that she was confident that vaccines for the viral infection would be available in the near future. The court while addressing the issue of ensuring all people wore face masks directed the state government to maintain tight vigil in market places in Lucknow, Ghaziabad, Meerut, Kanpur and Gautam Budh Nagar for at least the next 30 days. These cities have witnessed a sharp spike in Covid-19 cases. The court said that the district administration would use drones, if available, for surveillance of crowded places, like markets. “This surveillance should be done on the same pattern as it is being done in Allahabad,” observed the bench. The bench, comprising Justice Siddhartha Varma and Justice Ajit Kumar, passed the order after taking suo moto cognizance of the spread of Covid-19 in the state. Sarvshresth Tripathi, SSP Prayagraj who was present in court along with his team informed the court that a cluster of four constables has been posted in the various zones in the district to ensure that people were wearing face masks. Further, local officials have been directed to give four hourly reports to the Station House Officers (SHOs) regarding the inspection which they would be doing with regard to the wearing of masks. Earlier, on Monday, the court had directed the senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Prayagraj to personally inform on November 24 about the progress in deployment of police to ensure cent per cent use of face masks in the city. The court has fixed December 3 as the next date of hearing in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-will-be-available-in-near-future-icmr-scientist-tells-allahabad-high-court/story-ReKSjLRcNnGAcJ7d67FTxM.html
24-11-2020||India||LDF to organise mass protest in Kerala on Wednesday||The ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) in Kerala will organise a mass protest in the state to target the central government on November 25. The party has alleged that the central investigative agencies are being used to stall the development activities carried out by the Left government.The mass gathering will take place at 5 pm on Wednesday at Panchayat-Municipal centres. The protest will be organised using the slogan “Save Kerala, Protect Development”.In a statement, LDF convener and Communist Party of India (Marxist) state secretary A Vijayaraghavan said on Sunday, “Instead of investigating the gold smuggling, the central investigation agencies are looking to halt all development projects. They have intervened in projects such as K-Phone, e-Mobility, Taurus Park and Life Mission.”“The investigation agencies are challenging the people of Kerala, by the move to scrap development projects such as modernisation of schools, upgrading of hospitals, development of national highways and construction of roads and bridges. The UDF-BJP alliance is preparing for such a narrow operation, fearing that this achievement of development will be politically beneficial to the LDF,” he further said in the statement.A similar protest was held by LDF at 25,000 centers across the state on November 16 in which all constituent parties of LDF participated including Communist Party of India, Communist Party of India (Marxist) and other smaller parties. As the Enforcement Directorate (ED) extended the scope of probe in Kerala into many prestige projects which was followed by the probe into the Kerala gold smuggling case, LDF has been very wary of the centre.Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan in a press meet on November 16 said that central agencies in Kerala are targeting bureaucrats who are carrying out development works.“Apart from one investigation agency, I think all other central agencies in India are in Kerala. These probe agencies are now targeting bureaucrats who are carrying out development works. Files after files are being called in by these agencies. Who are these people who are so upset with the development works of the state government? They are now targeting K-fon project. I want to tell those trying to sabotage development works of Kerala government asking for cooperation that they need not come here for it,” said Vijayan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ldf-to-organise-mass-protest-in-kerala-on-wednesday/story-ZzcxDRoB5dVK0jIlNuWwGJ.html
24-11-2020||India||Covid-19: Delhi graveyard running out of burial space as deaths rise||The biggest Muslim graveyard in the national capital near ITO is running out of burial space amid rising Covid-19 deaths with coronavirus victims from other NCR areas also being buried here, an official managing it said on Tuesday.“There should be some arrangement so that Covid-19 victims are buried at graveyards in their neighbourhoods and their relatives do not have to come here because space is limited,” said Haji Mian Faiyazuddin, secretary of Qabristan Ahle Islam in the vicinity of the walled city.He said the management committee will write to the Delhi government for help to ensure that Covid-19 burials from other parts of the city are not shifted to the graveyard.Faiyazuddin said a problem faced by the graveyard management is that it also has to provide space for burial of Covid-19 patients from neighbouring cities like Noida, Ghaziabad and Meerut who die while undergoing treatment in Delhi.“Yesterday itself we provided space from a Covid-19 victim who passed away here in a hospital. We do not have any problem but space is a real issue,” he said.Although the space issue is not that grave at the moment but if the current rate of burials continue, there could be difficulty in accommodating even normal burials in around two months, he said.“We receive around 4-5 bodies of Covid-19 victims these days. A total of 67 Covid-19 victims were buried here in September, 57 in October and in November so far 50 bodies have been buried,” Faiyazuddin said.Staring at space crunch, the graveyard management last month had readied 5-6 acres of extra space for burials of casualties caused by the virus.The Covid-19 burials at the ITO graveyard, measuring about 50 acres, started in April.Delhi reported 121 deaths due to Covid-19 on Monday. On Sunday, 121 fatalities pushed the death toll to 8,391, authorities said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-delhi-graveyard-running-out-of-burial-space-as-deaths-rise/story-Dv7do63XKPK41ECktQKq0I.html
24-11-2020||India||India’s ban on 43 Chinese apps is the 4th strike since Ladakh stand off||The Centre on Tuesday banned 43 more mobile apps, mostly Chinese-owned, including those of the e-commerce giant, the Alibaba Group.The ministry of electronics and information technology (MEITY), the governing authority, issued an order under Section 69A of the Information Technology Act blocking access to the 43 mobile apps on the grounds that they have been “engaging in activities that are prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order”. “Apps of the Alibaba Group, short video sharing app Snack video, Business card reader app Cam Card, truck and driver aggregator Lalamove are some of the major ones that have been blocked this time,” a ministry official told The Hindustan Times.A second ministry official said that all the apps banned were Chinese. “Reports keep coming in as it is a continuous process. MHA sends the report that is brought to notice of the secretary and then the orders are processed. There’s a proper judicial process, which the cyber law division looks into to assess the violations.”The second official added that Lalamove is one of the fastest growing logistical service in the world and the decision to ban it was a major one.This is the fourth tranche of apps that the government has banned amid the ongoing standoff between Indian and Chinese troops in Eastern Ladakh. The conflict, which intensified in June following the death of 20 Indian soldiers in clashes at the Galwan Valley, shows no signs of resolution. Recent reports also suggest that the Chinese have built roads and a village at Doklam in Bhutan, where there was a faceoff between India and China in 2017. Some of the Chinese apps banned this time include the AliSuppliers Mobile App, Alibaba Workbench, AliExpress, Alipay Cashier, Chinese Social, ChinaLove among others. This is the latest in a series of bans targeting Chinese players. Also Read: China likely inducting more fighter jets for western areas amid India standoffIndia on 3 September banned 118 China-linked mobile apps, including widely popular game PUBG, two months after similar curbs on 59 apps, mostly Chinese, and a month after banning 47 more linked to that country, citing concerns over them being “prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity… defence of India, security of state and public order” amid a months-long standoff with its northern neighbour at the Line of Actual Control (LAC).In late June, India banned dozens of mobile apps, including Bytedance’s TikTok, Alibaba’s UC Browser and Tencent’s WeChat over what it said were national security concerns. It banned some more in late July.MEITY had said the apps were attempting to steal and surreptitiously transmit users’ data in an “unauthorised manner to servers which have locations outside India”.Apar Gupta, internet freedom foundation trustee said that the latest press release does not even state any “specific, underlying reasons” and merely refers to earlier orders. “This is a concerning progression of the practice of banning of apps becoming normalised,” Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-november-24-ban-on-chinese-apps-is-the-4th-strike-since-ladakh-stand-off/story-fvTucxibvLsOHirwehcRcJ.html
24-11-2020||India||Uttarakhand’s climate change activist Ridhima Pandey in BBC’s list of 100 most influential women globally||Thirteen-year-old Uttarakhand-based climate activist Ridhima Pandey has featured in the BBC’s list of 100 inspiring and influential women from around the world for 2020. The list, according to the BBC website, highlights those who are leading change and making a difference during these turbulent times. Pandey said she didn’t expect she would feature in such a prestigious list. “It is a pleasant surprise and international recognition of the work I have been carrying out for the cause of the environment and climate change. This recognition will encourage me further to keep working and fighting for the cause of the environment and climate change, which are the most important issues the world is facing today and will face in the coming days,” she said. Pandey, who lives in Haridwar, said this recognition will also inspire other youngsters, especially girls in India to fight for the cause of the environment and climate change in their areas. “I hope in the coming years many more women from India will feature in this list,” she said. According to the BBC website (https://www.bbc.com/news/world-55042935), “Ridhima Pandey is a climate activist who, at the age of nine, filed a petition against the Government of India in response to its inaction to mitigate climate change. In 2019, along with 15 other child petitioners, Ridhima filed a lawsuit against five countries at the UN. Ridhima is currently participating in international conferences and helping to empower other students, at all levels, to fight for their future and for the biodiversity of the world. Ridhima is working to save her future and that of coming generations”. Last year, Ridhima had joined Greta Thunberg and 14 other children at the United Nations Climate Action Summit, filing a complaint to protest the lack of government action on the climate change crisis. Last December, Pandey had started an online campaign urging the PM to talk about the alarming air pollution situation in India in his Mann Ki Baat and declare it as a public health emergency. In September this year, Pandey in her hand-written letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said that her worst nightmare was going to school with an oxygen cylinder, requesting PM Modi to make sure that “an oxygen cylinder doesn’t become an essential part of the life of children, which we may have to carry on our shoulders everywhere in future.” Three other women from India---eighty-two-year-old Bilkis Bano, Manasi Joshi, Isaivani-have also featured in the list.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-s-climate-change-activist-ridhima-pandey-in-bbc-s-list-of-100-most-influential-women-globally/story-XnXbpzfyJ53WTVknfHGEWP.html
24-11-2020||India||Cyclone Nivar likely to intensify into very severe cyclonic storm: IMD DG||Cyclone Nivar is expected to intensify into a ‘very severe cyclonic storm’ and cross Tamil Nadu and Puducherry coasts between Karaikal and Mamallapuram on the late evening of November 25, IMD Director General Mrutunjay Mohapatra said on Tuesday. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had initially predicted that Cyclone Nivar was likely to intensify into a ‘severe cyclonic storm’ but has now estimated that it will intensify further. Nivar is the second cyclone in the Bay of Bengal this year. In May, Cyclone Amphan had developed into a ‘super cyclonic storm’. “Our forecast is it will intensify into a very severe cyclonic storm by (Tuesday) tonight “It is very likely to cross Tamil Nadu and Puducherry coasts between Karaikal and Mamallapuram around Puducherry during 25th November late evening as a very severe cyclonic storm with a wind speed of 120-130 kilometres per hour gusting to 145 kmph,” Mohapatra said. Besides strong winds, the cyclone is also expected to bring heavy rains. The IMD has issued red alert for coastal and north interior Tamilnadu, Puducherry and Karaikal, for November 25, the top meteorologist said. “Isolated extremely heavy rainfall activity also very likely over coastal and north interior Tamil Nadu and Puducherry (Pudukottai, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Karaikal, Nagapattinam, Cuddalore, Ariyalur and Perabalu districts during 24th and Kadalur, Kallakurchi, Puducherry, Villupuram, Tiruvannamalai, Chengalpattu to Ariyalur, Perambalur and Karaikal districts during 25th) and over Nellore and Chittoor districts of Andhra Pradesh on 25th and over Rayalseema and southeast Telangana on 26th November,” the IMD said.     He added that cyclone leads to multi-hazard scenario. In event of the cyclone, there could be serious damage to thatched huts, disruption of power and communication lines, damage to roads, uprooting of trees. There could be damage to horticulture crops like banana and papaya. The IMD has also suggested total suspension of fishing operations and motorboats and small boats, shifting of people residing in coastal areas to safer places, judicious regulation of road, air and rail traffic. He said the IMD will issue hourly updates from November 25 when the cyclone crosses the coast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-nivar-likely-to-intensify-into-very-severe-cyclonic-storm-imd-dg/story-FWUAgARSGIJrm5orhCGFgL.html
24-11-2020||India||Cyclone Nivar: 1200 rescue troopers deployed, 800 on standby, says NDRF chief||Nearly 1,200 National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) rescue personnel have been deployed in Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Puducherry and 800 others are on standby in view of cyclone Nivar, the “very severe cyclonic storm” which is expected to make landfall Wednesday evening.NDRF chief S N Pradhan also said they are prepared for a “high level of intensity and the worst form” of the cyclonic storm as it surges from the Bay of Bengal towards the southern coastline.“We are keeping a close watch on the development and we are coordinating with the affected states,”he told a press conference here.“It is a rapidly developing situation and it could take the shape of a very severe cyclonic storm that has a speed of about 120-130 km per hour.” Pradhan said a total of 50 NDRF teams has been earmarked for combating any situation emerging out of the cyclone that is expected to make landfall late Wednesday evening.An NDRF team typically comprises about 40 rescue troopers.A total of 22 teams have been pre-deployed while eight are on standby in the two affected states of Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh, and in the Union Territory of Puducherry, Pradhan said.“Out of these 30 teams, 12 are deployed in Tamil Nadu, seven in Andhra Pradesh and three in Puducherry”, he said.  An additional 20 teams will be on standby to be airlifted from locations such as Cuttack (Odisha), Vijaywada (Andhra Pradesh) and Thrissur (Kerala), he said.The NDRF chief said the teams are equipped with all communication gadgets, pole and tree-cutters and the personnel have been provided with personal protection kits in view of the Covid-19 situation.“Our teams will continue to be deployed in the affected areas as long as they are required and they will ensure that situations like heavy rainfall, flooding and waterlogging that follow a cyclonic storm are tackled effectively”, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-nivar-1200-rescue-troopers-deployed-800-on-standby-says-ndrf-chief/story-FmSxnmjbRVonFqO7M19VgK.html
24-11-2020||India||UP govt brings ordinance against unlawful religious conversions||The Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday brought an ordinance against unlawful religious conversions. The decision was taken at a cabinet meeting, minister Siddharth Nath Singh said on Tuesday.The UP prohibition of unlawful religious conversion ordinance 2020 makes provision for declaring a marriage null and void if the marriage is solemnised for the primary purpose of converting a woman from one religion to other.If someone is found violating the provisions, the ordinance makes provision for punishments of imprisonment of minimum one year to maximum five year and penalty not less than Rs 15,000. In cases where a minor girl, SC/ST woman is found involved, the ordinance provides for imprisonment of minimum of three years to maximum of 10 years and penalty of not less than 25,000. In cases of mass conversion, the guilty will face imprisonment from a minimum three years to maximum 10 years and penalty of Rs 50,000.The approval to the ordinance was given by chief minister Yogi Adityanath.This comes days after Adityanath had said that UP government will bring a strict law to curb such incidents.With Tuesday’s announcement, Uttar Pradesh has joined the list of states who have made similar announcement.Last week, Haryana home minister Anil Vij had said that a law will be brought in his state to curb incidents of ‘love jihad’, a term used by right-wing workers to describe interfaith relationships between a Muslim man and a Hindu woman. In February this year, the government told Parliament that there was no definition of the term and no such cases were reported by agencies.Earlier this month, a 21-year-old college student, Nikita, was shot dead in Haryana’s Ballabhgarh by a man. The victim’s family has alleged that the man was pressuring her to convert to Islam in order to marry him. Some Hindu outfits have alleged that the woman’s murder is a case of “love jihad”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-cabinet-to-introduce-ordinance-against-unlawful-religious-conversions-says-state-minister-siddharth-nath-singh/story-1AHTj8oR36SwRKYCRPgAyN.html
24-11-2020||India||Cyclone Nivar is making its presence felt, tweets Rahul Gandhi; asks people to stay indoors||Congress leader and Wayanad MP Rahul Gandhi on Monday asked people to take precautions as Cyclone Nivar gathers pace in the southern states of India and asked people to stay indoors. “Cyclone Nivar is making its presence felt in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and parts of Andhra Pradesh. Please follow all safety measures. I appeal to all Congress workers to provide assistance to those in need. Stay indoors, stay safe,” Gandhi wrote in a tweet. Termed as a ‘very severe cyclonic storm’, cyclone Nivar has prompted National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) rescue personnel to deploy nearly 1,200 rescue personnel in Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Puducherry and 800 others are on standby. Nivar is expected to make landfall Wednesday evening.The Met department has said that the cyclonic storm, moving at a wind speed of 100-110 km per hour gusting to 120 kmph, was very likely to cross the coast between Karaikal in Puducherry and Mamallapuram, over 50 kms from Chennai on Wednesday late evening. Nivar is the first cyclone to form in the country since the onset of northeast monsoon on October 28. Most places in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal near Nagapattinam are likely to experience rainfall, with some expected to receive heavy to very heavy showers. Tamil Nadu and Puducherry administration have announced a holiday in view of the expected landfall. The Tamil Nadu government said people may contact the emergency call centres at 044-28888105 and 7338895011.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-nivar-is-making-its-presence-felt-tweets-rahul-gandhi-asks-people-to-stay-indoors/story-hMcY78yVO796LvEo9Szw1H.html
24-11-2020||India||Centre asks CMs to form vaccination panel, identify the vulnerable. Most say they are ready||The Centre asked states to form high level committee to prepare a roadmap for administering Covid vaccines to people at village level by creating a robust cold chain infrastructure and identification of the vulnerable groups for first four stages of the Covid immunization. The direction came during a meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi held with select chief ministers, officials in multiple states said. State chief ministers on Tuesday informed Prime Minister Narendra Modi that they were ready for the distribution of Covid vaccines with the presence of a robust cold chain infrastructure and identification of frontline health workers. A few other CMs sought immediate release of Goods and Service Tax (GST) and additional funds to strengthen health infrastructure to cope up with the increasing number of Covid cases.PM Modi had called a meeting of chief ministers to assess the Covid situation on ground in view of the rising cases and to discuss the plan for rollout of Covid vaccination across the country. The PM also said that due to the ‘coordinated’ efforts, the pandemic situation in India is under much control. The Centre plans to start the Covid vaccination in the first half of 2021 and for this it has prepared a detailed plan and the PM asked the state governments to submit their detailed plans as early as possible.The first batch of Covid vaccine being developed by Serum Institute of India is expected in India by January end or early February, Adar Poonawalla, managing director of Serum Institute of India had said at HT Leadership Summit’s virtual session on Thursday.On Monday, drug-maker AstraZeneca, which has tied up with the Serum Institute for mass manufacturing of the drug, said its Covid-19 vaccine showed efficiency between 70-90% depending on the dosage taken. Last week, some other drug companies had claimed efficiency up to 90% for their vaccines. On Tuesday, Russian government in a statement said that its Covid vaccine Sputnik was 95% effective.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath informed the PM that his state was engaged in creating a robust cold-chain maintenance infrastructure and systems for the prospective Covid vaccination drive.The CM also said that the state will have Covid vaccinators, which will be trained by the state health department. He said he has directed officials to put in place all arrangements for cold-chain maintenance by December 15.Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot said the state was doing 100% testing by RT-PCR—considered the gold standard of Covid testing--- and the testing has increased from 18,000 samples per day to over 30,000. He added that the hospital infrastructure has been strengthened with addition of oxygen generation plants, laying oxygen pipelines, purchase of oxygen concentration plants and increase in intensive care unit (ICU) and oxygen beds. The CM informed that the state was ready with the database of health workers to immunise them with Covid vaccine.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who said the Covid daily case load in the state has reduced to 4,700-5,000 cases from a high of 24,000 in September, informed the PM that a task force has been set up in Maharashtra to formulate the vaccination strategy.“We have been in touch with Adar Poonawala of Serum Institute, which is producing the shot for the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine. However, there needs to be clarity about the vaccination program in terms of availability, quantum, side effects, cost and the distribution. Our task force will deliberate on all these aspects in the state,” he said.Also Read: PM asks states to share Covid-19 strategy, focus on bringing positivity rate down: 10 pointsTamil Nadu chief minister Edapaddi K Palaniswami said the state has set up three committees to ensure smooth implementation of the vaccination drive and a digital database of Covid frontline workers was also being prepared.Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant said his state would submit a detailed preparatory plan on cold chain management and vaccination schedule.“Our (1st) priority would be health workers and front warriors and secondary for those who are aged 65 or more with comorbid conditions. The discussions are ongoing,” Sawant said. Also Read: Who said what at PM Modi’s review meet on Covid-19 situationUttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat sought priority vaccination keeping in mind the upcoming Haridwar Maha Kumbh.West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said her state was fully prepared for the Covid-19 vaccination program and claimed it has tackled the pandemic situation better than other states. She also urged the PM to release the GST funds immediately. “West Bengal is fully prepared with trained man power and required infrastructure, including cold chains for the vaccination program. We are ready to work with the Centre and other stakeholders to ensure a speedy vaccination drive for every one as soon as the vaccine is available,” Banerjee said, according to a statement released by the state government.She, however, asked the Centre to release ‘adequate’ funds to fight the pandemic. “The dues on account of GST compensation stand at Rs 8,500 crore. The state has spent around Rs 4,000 crore for Covid-19 management. But till date, the Centre has released only Rs 193 crore,” she claimed.He also said that political rallies must be avoided during the pandemic. West Bengal has reported 4.59 lakh Covid-19 cases till Monday with more than 3,500 new cases added on November 23. At least 8,072 infected persons have died.Thackeray took a dig at PM’s Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the state, without naming it, for taking to the streets with the demand to reopen temples and said the politicisation may jeopardise entire efforts of containing the Covid-19 pandemic. He said the PM should instruct the political parties to not play politics amid the global pandemic. “Prime minister or union home minister should convene a joint meeting of all political parties to deliberate with them about the seriousness of the pandemic. …we have been appealing to people to follow the Covid-19 protocol by maintaining distance, wearing masks, but a few political parties have been resorting to the streets with the intention of gaining political mileage out of the challenge,” he said.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal asked the PM to allow admission of Covid patients at Central government hospitals in the capital and also sought immediate release of funds for Covid. Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh could not participate as he was ill.(With input from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-asks-cms-to-form-vaccination-panel-identify-the-vulnerable-most-say-they-are-ready/story-xdNu3KDa8c7Wx4GARmAPRI.html
24-11-2020||India||Local trains suspended between Kurla and Chunabhatti stations after boundary wall collapse||Local train services between Kurla and Chunabhatti railway stations on the Harbour Railway Line of the Central Railway, have been suspended. Train services were suspended at 4.15 pm on Tuesday.The local train services were suspended after a portion of a boundary wall fell near the railway tracks during dismantling of an old substation.Delay in local train services on the Harbour Railway Line is likely during the evening rush hour.“UP line traffic on Harbour line between Kurla -Chunabhatti has been stopped due to safety reasons as, while dismantling old DC station, some portion of a boundary wall, slipped near UP side track. Time 4.15pm. No injuries. Traffic will be restored in half an hour @Central_Railway,” tweeted Shivaji Sutar, chief public relation officer, Central Railway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/local-trains-suspended-between-kurla-and-chunabhatti-stations-after-boundary-wall-collapse/story-XBqqxgrRu78MGVwuvYTMvO.html
24-11-2020||India||Uddhav Thackeray requests PM Modi to instruct politicians not to hold protests amid pandemic||Expressing concern over large gatherings amid the second Covid-19 wave, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday requested Prime minister Narendra Modi to instruct politicians to refrain from organising protests.Thackeray brought up the issue of political protests in a meeting of the Prime Minister with chief ministers of various states over the coronavirus situation.During the meeting, Thackeray said that few politicians are playing with the lives of the people and organising protests amid the second wave of Covid-19 and requested PM Modi to intervene in this matter and instruct those political parties to follow Covid-19 protocols.He also informed the Prime Minister that the state has formed a task force to ensure timely distribution of coronavirus vaccine and executing the vaccination programme.Read more | PM asks states to share Covid-19 strategy, focus on bringing positivity rate down: 10 pointsBesides Thackeray, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani, Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot, Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel, Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar, Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan, and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal are among those present at the meeting, being held via video conferencing.Maharashtra continues to be on the top in the list of worst-Covid affected states with 82,915 active cases and 3,172 deaths, according to the Union Health Ministry. 1,79,237 people have recovered from the disease in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uddhav-thackeray-requests-pm-modi-to-instruct-politicians-not-to-hold-protests-amid-pandemic/story-vuGCF4ZmJqzPJj18PMELDL.html
24-11-2020||India||Buntings, banners, big rallies go missing as tactics change for J-K DDC polls||Unlike the past, there are no buntings, banners or big rallies by the political parties in the campaigning for the upcoming District Development Council polls in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir.The DDC polls are the biggest electoral contest being held after the revocation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and its bifurcation into two UTs - J&K and Ladakh. However, the election fever on the ground is missing this time and no big rallies have been organised to attract the voters. The 280 DDC members will be elected in the eight-phase elections, which will begin on November 28 and end on Dec 19. The counting will be held on December 22. The DDC elections are being held on party basis and the 280 elected members will elect chairman for district developmental boards.Most of the candidates belonging to different parties or standing independently are either going for door to door campaigning or use of social media platforms, especially, news portals to seek votes, more so in rural areas.Many candidates, especially young ones, have made short video messages seeking votes and highlighting their priorities.Advocate Irfan Hafeez Lone, who is contesting from Sangrama said that he believes in door to door campaigning. “I am not a tech savvy (man) but yes my friends who have a hold on social media are using the platform to boost my campaign. My opponents have money and muscle power but I am confident of winning these elections. And social media could have an impact.”So far only the BJP and Apni Party have held some rallies or conventions in different parts of the UT, seeking votes for their candidates. BJP even brought top national leaders for the campaigning in different parts of Kashmir. Apni party president, Altaf Bukhari, who presided over the party convention under tight security at Sherwani hall in Baramulla on Tuesday, said that these elections are for development of the areas in any assembly segments. “The people who will get elected will form development plans for their areas and it’s the third tier of the Panchayati Raj system.”J&K pradesh congress president, Ghulam Ahmad Mir, said the party has decided that local workers will play an important role in seeking votes for party candidates in DDC polls. “We are planning some rallies in different parts of J&K,” he said. Also Read: Abdullahs’ house in Jammu built on encroached land, NC headquarters legalised under Roshni Act: JK administration listOn Tuesday, former J&K chief minister Farooq Abdullah. who is also the president of six party alliance, PAGD or people’s alliance for Gupkar declaration, released a short video message seeking votes for the alliance’s candidates. The message was shared by all prominent leaders of the PAGD on social media to extend the reach of the message.Peoples Conference spokesman, Adnan Ashraf, whose party is part of the alliance, said that their candidates are relying both on door to door campaigning and social media. “We have many young educated candidates; besides social media, they also travel to villages to seek votes. Since this is a grassroots election, local impact will have an influence.” Adnan said the campaigning has been mostly left to the local leadership. “Top leaders will go for limited campaigning.”Ishfaq Ahmad, a political analyst, said that people in Kashmir are yet to come out of the shock of August 5, when the special status was revoked and the state was downgraded into UTs.“Though all parties are in fray, the enthusiasm is missing even among the top leaders of big regional political parties. Now, vote percentage is crucial which will determine the future of politics in J&K.’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/buntings-banners-big-rallies-go-missing-as-tactics-change-for-j-k-ddc-polls/story-PqUo6ImhEqWT6d240VuyRM.html
24-11-2020||India||Abdullahs’ house in Jammu built on encroached land, NC headquarters legalised under Roshni Act: JK administration list||Former chief ministers Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah have been named by the Jammu and Kashmir administration in a list which alleges that their residential house in Jammu is built over illegally-possessed land, a charge denied by the father-son duo.The administration of the union territory as directed by the Jammu and Kashmir High Court to make public land given under the controversial Roshni land scheme, since scrapped by a court, came out with the list of beneficiaries. On Tuesday, it came out with a list of those who had allegedly encroached land other than those given under the scheme.The list also highlighted the headquarters of their National Conference in both Srinagar and Jammu were legalised under the controversial Roshni Act.Displaying the lists on its website - one showing encroached land outside Roshni Act, the divisional administration Jammu revealed that the residential house of the Abdullahs, build over an area of nearly an acre at Sunjwan, is encroached state land (physically encroached but not shown in revenue record) other than Roshi Act.Reacting to the fresh list, party vice president Omar Abdullah said, “The news attributing to sources that Dr Farooq Abdullah is a beneficiary of the Roshni Act is completely false and is being spread with a malicious intent. Both his houses at Jammu and Srinagar have nothing to do with the said Act.“Dr Farooq Abdullah has NOT availed of the Roshni Scheme for either his residence in Srinagar or in Jammu and any one who says otherwise is lying. The fact that they are using sources to plant this story shows that it has no legs to stand on,” Omar said.The house of senior Abdullah was built in late 1990s for which timber was allocated from the government depots, which is issued only after furnishing all revenue records, officials in the know said.Read more | J&K govt annuls Roshni Act, to retrieve land within six monthsEarlier, three former ministers, several politicians and a former bureaucrat figured in the list of beneficiaries who have availed land under now scrapped Roshni Act or encroached state land for residential or commercial purposes.The lists were made public by the divisional administration, both in Kashmir and Jammu regions, in accordance with the October 9 directive of the high court which has declared Roshni Act “illegal, unconstitutional and unsustainable” and ordered a CBI probe into the allotment of the land under this law.Issuing the first list of 35 beneficiaries who included former finance minister Haseeb Drabu and some top hoteliers and a former bureaucrat, the divisional administration Kashmir showed that National Conference headquarters, several hotels and over a dozen commercial buildings at prime locations in and around Lal Chowk have been regularized under the act.Majority of the beneficiaries including Drabu and his wife have one Kanal of land under residential use, while Congress leader K K Amla is the owner of Broadway hotel and prominent businessman Mushtaq Ahmad Chaya owns a guest house and a hotel.On November 1, the Union Territory government cancelled all land transfers that took place under the JK State Land (Vesting of Ownership to the Occupants) Act, 2001 - also known as the Roshni Act - under which 2.5 lakh acres of land was to be transferred to the existing occupants.The principal secretary and revenue department has been asked to work out a plan to retrieve large tracts of state land vested under the Act. According to the high court order, a total of 6,04,602 kanals (75,575 acres) of state land had been regularised and transferred to the occupants. This included 5,71,210 kanals (71,401 acres) in Jammu and 33,392 kanals (4174 acres) in the Kashmir province.“Principal Secretary to government, Revenue Department shall also work out the modalities and plan to evict encroachers from such State Land and retrieve the State land within a period of six months. Principal Secretary to Government, Revenue Department shall work out modalities for handling the money received for these lands after annulment,” the JK government had said in a statement.According to the order, complete identities of influential persons, including ministers, legislators, bureaucrats, government officials, police officers and businessmen, their relatives or persons holding benami for them, who have derived benefit under the Roshni Act will be made public within a period of one month.Read more | India briefs envoys on J&K attack bidMohammad Shafi Pandit and his wife own two residential houses in the prime location of the city, the document said, adding a total of over eight acres of land was vested to the beneficiaries, who also included several other relatives of Drabu.In Jammu region, two separate lists were displayed by divisional administration Jammu on its website -- one related to Roshi Act and the other showing encroached land outside Roshni Act.Among the beneficiaries of the encroached state land of about three and a half acres in Bahu Tehsil (Physically Encroached but not shown in Revenue Record), the list included former ministers Sajjad Kitchloo (National Conference) and Abdul Majid Wani (Congress), NC leaders Syed Akhoon, and Aslam Goni and former chairman of JK bank M Y Khan.Another list of 383 people, belonging to majority community, were shown under possession of over 483 acres of encroached land in Maria Mandrian tehsil of Jammu district, while 854 beneficiaries having possession of over 370 acres in Jammu south and 15 others in Jammu west.Under the Roshni Act, two retired superintendents of police Shiv Kumar Singh and Mani Lal were among 10 beneficiaries in Bahu tehsil. Read more | Mehbooba Mufti stopped from visiting Rambiara Nalla, alleges Jammu-Kashmir ‘turned into open air prison’The list included government employees and businessmen and the total land involved is about over five acres. As many as 419 people, mostly farmers belonging to majority community, have been vested powers of 405 acres of agriculture land under Roshni act in Khour tehsil and 97 others in Nazool tehsil over over four acres of land, the list highlighted.The Jammu and Kashmir state lands (vesting of ownership to the occupants) act was enacted in the year 2001 with the twin objective of generating resources for financing power projects and conferment of proprietary rights to the occupants of the state land.The act popularly called as Roshni scheme initially envisaged conferment of proprietary rights of around 20.55 lakh Kanals (102750 hectares) to the occupants of which only 15.85 per cent land was approved for vesting of ownership rights.The scheme was finally repealed by the then governor Satya Pal Malik on November 28, 2018.Amid reports about its widespread misuse, the entire legislation was challenged before the JK high court, in a public interest litigation, wherein the court besides staying the proceedings under the said act also directed that neither the occupants having been conferred upon the ownership rights shall sell these lands nor can raise constructions on such lands.In 2014, however, the Comptroller and Auditor General had estimated that only Rs 76 crore had been raised from the transfer of encroached land between 2007 and 2013.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/abdullahs-house-in-jammu-built-on-encroached-land-nc-headquarters-legalised-under-roshni-act-jk-administartion-list/story-Dqj47yKOGee0Vm0cczZhDL.html
24-11-2020||India||PM asks states to share Covid-19 strategy, focus on bringing positivity rate down: 10 points||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday interacted via video conferencing with chief ministers of states and union territories which are witnessing a surge in the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Union home minister Amit Shah, health minister Harsh Vardhan, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani joined the virtual meeting.Here’s everything you need to know about PM Modi’s review meet on the Covid-19 situation:1. Giving updates on the vaccine development, PM Modi said that the “government of India is keeping a track of each development in vaccine development. We are in touch with Indian vaccine developers and manufacturers. We are also in touch with global regulators, governments of other countries, multinational orgs and international companies.”2. PM Modi urged all the chief ministers to share their feedback in writing on Covid-19 strategy. “No one can impose any view and all have to work together,” PM Modi said. He also cautioned states and union territories against any laxity in fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. 3. PM Modi advised all the chief ministers to focus on bringing the positivity rate below 5%. “Seeing good recovery rates, many think virus is weak & they’ll recover soon, this has led to rampant carelessness. Those working on vaccine are doing it but we need to focus on ensuring that people are alert & transmission is curbed. We’ve to bring positivity rate under 5%,” said PM Modi. Read more | States must start working on cold storage facilities for Covid-19 vaccine, says PM Modi at meeting with chief ministers4. PM Modi urged all states to establish cold storage facilities for Covid- 19 vaccine and said that though a final plan cannot be charted yet, the states must start prepping for adequate delivery and storage facilities for Covid-19 vaccine.5. Union home minister Amit Shah asked the chief ministers to draw a strategy to ensure mortality rate due to the viral disease comes down below 1% and the new cases must not exceed 5% of the existing level.6. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal informed Prime minister Modi that the national capital, which is witnessing the third wave of Covid-19, saw a peak of 8,600 Covid-19 cases on November 10 after which the cases have been steadily declining. He also sought Modi’s intervention to come up with a solution to get rid of the pollution and reduce stubble burning.7. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray told the PM that the state has formed a task force to ensure distribution of the vaccine, adding that he is in touch with Adar Poonawala, CEO of Serum Institute of India (SII), which has partnered with the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine against Covid-19.Read more | Who said what at PM Modi’s review meet on Covid-19 situation8. Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said that the state has been working on a strategy to make vaccines available.9. Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani said the state will follow the vaccination plan formulated by the centre.10. Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat urged the central government to make Haridwar Mahakumbh a priority in the Covid vaccination process. According to the union health ministry, India saw 37,975 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day taking the country’s Covid-19 caseload to 91.77 lakh, while the recoveries crossed 86 lakh. The number of active cases remained below 5 lakh for the fourteenth consecutive day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/pm-asks-states-to-share-covid-19-strategy-focus-on-bringing-positivity-rate-down-10-points/story-ppf9qVTd87iAbXLRgfJw2H.html
24-11-2020||India||Mahakumbh 2021 expected to peak with 1st Shahi Snan on March 11||The first Shahi Snan or special dip of Mahakumbh 2021 will be held on March 11. All the Akhadas will arrive before the first Shahi Snaan, resulting in peak participation of lakhs of seers, naga sanyasis and ascetics at the time during the four-month long Haridwar event. Officially, Mahakumbh will begin from January 1, 2021, as has been the precedent, with the whole Haridwar district coming under Kumbhmela administration purview. But this time, due to covid-19 spread, Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad is of the view that owing to the timing of Shahi Snaan, which holds the foremost importance during Kumbh, the religious gathering should be considered to have begun from March 11 onwards. The second Shahi Snan falls on the occasion of Somvati Amavasya (April 12) and the third on Baisakhi Mesh Poornima on April 14. The last festive bath of Mahakumbh 2021 will be on April 27 on the occasion of Chaitra Poornima. In all, there will be six festive baths and three Shahi Snaans during the four-month-long period of the 2021-Mahakumbh fair. Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad president Mahant Narendra Giri said that “officially though Mahakumbh begins from January 1 and will conclude on April 28, but as the Shahi Snan falls on March 11, April 12 and April 14, we are deeming Mahakumbh to actually begin form from Maha Shivratri”. “For normal pilgrims and devotees, Mahakumbh begins from January 1 onwards with the first festive bath of Mahakumbh to be held on Makar Sankranti (January 14),” said Giri. Mela officer-in-charge Deepak Rawat said that as of now preparations are in full swing and by December this year, all the work of a permanent nature will get completed focus will be on raising works and facilities of temporary nature. Ganga Sabha president Pradeep Jha pointed that from January 1 itself, there will be a rise in the number of pilgrims arriving, and by the first festive bath of Makar Sankranti, the Kumbh fervour will grip the sacred city. “Shahi Snaans are of immense spiritual and religious importance during Kumbh fair when all the Shankaracharyas, Akhadas, Mahamandaleshwar, pontiffs, naga sanyasis, saints and pilgrims arrive from across the country and foreign shores to take a holy dip in the Ganga.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mahakumbh-2021-likely-to-peak-with-1st-shahi-snan-on-march-11/story-xF5Ecmz2f75s5EzxQRr1SJ.html
24-11-2020||India||Govt blocks 43 mobile apps from accessing by Indian users. Read list here||India on Tuesday blocked 43 mobile apps from accessing by users in India, under section 69A of the Information Technology Act. The officials have said that these applications have engaged in activities prejudicial to India’s sovereignty, integrity, defence, security and public order.Also read: Govt bans 43 mobile apps for ‘engaging in activities prejudicial to integrity of India’Here is the list:1. AliSuppliers Mobile App2. Alibaba Workbench3. AliExpress - Smarter Shopping, Better Living4. Alipay Cashier5. Lalamove India - Delivery App6. Drive with Lalamove India7. Snack VideoWATCH | India bans more Chinese apps: AliExpress, SnackVideo, CamCard in list of 438. CamCard - Business Card Reader9. CamCard - BCR (Western)10. Soul- Follow the soul to find you11. Chinese Social - Free Online Dating Video App & Chat12. Date in Asia - Dating & Chat For Asian Singles13. WeDate-Dating App14. Free dating app-Singol, start your date!15. Adore App16. TrulyChinese - Chinese Dating App17. TrulyAsian - Asian Dating App18. ChinaLove: dating app for Chinese singles19. DateMyAge: Chat, Meet, Date Mature Singles Online20. AsianDate: find Asian singles21. FlirtWish: chat with singles22. Guys Only Dating: Gay Chat23. Tubit: Live Streams24. WeWorkChina25. First Love Live- super hot live beauties live online26. Rela - Lesbian Social Network27. Cashier Wallet28. MangoTV29. MGTV-HunanTV official TV APP30. WeTV - TV version31. WeTV - Cdrama, Kdrama&More32. WeTV Lite33. Lucky Live-Live Video Streaming App34. Taobao Live35. DingTalk36. Identity V37. Isoland 2: Ashes of Time38. BoxStar (Early Access)39. Heroes Evolved40. Happy Fish41. Jellipop Match-Decorate your dream island！42. Munchkin Match: magic home building43. Conquista Online II||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-blocks-43-mobile-apps-from-accessing-by-users-in-india-read-list-here/story-5UM5t91k6Jr7OlJoPmz82K.html
24-11-2020||India||Govt bans 43 mobile apps for ‘engaging in activities prejudicial to integrity of India’||The ministry of electronics and information technology on Tuesday blocked 43 mobile applications for engaging in activities which are “prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of the country, defence, security of state and public order”. The decision to ban the applications, mostly linked to China, for users in India was taken following comprehensive reports from Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Center of the ministry of home affairs, the IT ministry said in a statement. WeWorkChina, AliExpress, CamCard, and Snack Video are some of the mobile applications that were banned by the Centre on Tuesday. WATCH | India bans more Chinese apps: AliExpress, SnackVideo, CamCard in list of 43List of 43 apps banned for India usersAliSuppliers Mobile AppAlibaba WorkbenchAliExpress - Smarter Shopping, Better LivingAlipay CashierLalamove India - Delivery AppDrive with Lalamove IndiaSnack VideoCamCard - Business Card ReaderCamCard - BCR (Western)Soul- Follow the soul to find youChinese Social - Free Online Dating Video App & ChatDate in Asia - Dating & Chat For Asian SinglesWeDate-Dating AppFree dating app-Singol, start your date!Adore AppTrulyChinese - Chinese Dating AppTrulyAsian - Asian Dating AppChinaLove: dating app for Chinese singlesDateMyAge: Chat, Meet, Date Mature Singles OnlineAsianDate: find Asian singlesFlirtWish: chat with singlesGuys Only Dating: Gay ChatTubit: Live StreamsWeWorkChinaFirst Love Live- super hot live beauties live onlineRela - Lesbian Social NetworkCashier WalletMangoTVMGTV-HunanTV official TV APPWeTV - TV versionWeTV - Cdrama, Kdrama&MoreWeTV LiteLucky Live-Live Video Streaming AppTaobao LiveDingTalkIdentity VIsoland 2: Ashes of TimeBoxStar (Early Access)Heroes EvolvedHappy FishJellipop Match-Decorate your dream island！Munchkin Match: magic home buildingConquista Online IIEarlier this year on June 29, the government had blocked access to 59 mobile apps and 118 more apps on September 2 under section 69A of the Information Technology Act. The move to ban the apps, of which most were Chinese, was termed as a digital strike on the neighbouring nation with which India has been engaged in a standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. Previously too mobile applications such as TikTok, UC Browser, WeChat and Ludo were blocked by the government citing concerns that these are ‘prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order’.According to officials, the applications banned earlier were reported to be leaking data of Indian users. “Their malpractices have also been singled out by experts. They have been said to take location data, transfer files to servers in China. Moreover, the beauty apps, such as beauty plus and selfie camera have also been reported for being a threat as they contain pornographic content,” the official said in June. “Although most of these apps are of either Chinese origin or controlled by Chinese companies, there are others based out of Singapore and Hong Kong,” the official added.The move will also safeguard the interests of crores of Indian mobile and internet users. The decision is a targeted one meant to ensure safety, security and sovereignty of Indian cyberspace, the IT ministry had said after the ban on apps in September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-bans-43-apps-says-they-are-engaged-in-activities-prejudicial-to-sovereignty-integrity-of-india/story-zhIXvXJ6rokjcsvnBMrUnN.html
24-11-2020||India||BJP’s Tejaswi Surya accuses Hyderabad cops of trying to stop him from entering Osmania University||Bharatiya Janata Party MP from Bengaluru Tejaswi Surya on Tuesday accused the Hyderabad Police of creating hurdles in his way, before he could enter the Osmania University campus where he wanted to pay homage to the martyrs of the separate Telangana movement. Surya, who also heads the national Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha, arrived at the OU campus in the morning along with hundreds of BJYM activists only to find the main gate closed and barbed wire fencing erected on the thoroughfare leading to the campus. Enraged at the presence of a large number of police personnel who allegedly tried to stop them, the BJYM activists led by the MP forcibly removed the barricades and entered the campus in a rally raising “Jai Sriram” and “Jai Telangana” slogans. Surya later tweeted: “Try how much ever you want, KCR Garu, but you can’t stop BJYM from paying respect to Telangana martyrs. You are in power today because of the sacrifice of thousands of common students of Telangana. Please don’t forget their sacrifices!”In another tweet, the BJP MP said: “BJYM is the power of youth of India! No fences, no barricades, no police force can stop us from doing the right thing. The more you try to stop us, the more powerful will be our fight back! Jai Telangana!” BJP official spokesperson K Krishna Sagar Rao also alleged that the Telangana Rashtra Samithi government tried to prevent the MP from paying respect to the martyrs of the Telangana movement at Osmania University. “KCR has closed its gates. BJYM threw open the gates and marched inside to salute Telangana’s heroes. Telangana is not the private jagir of KCR’s family. It belongs to Telangana youth and BJYM stands with them,” Rao said. The Hyderabad police authorities, who deployed additional police forces to prevent the law and order breakdown, however, denied creating any hurdles for the MP or the BJYM activists. Describing it as fake news, Deputy Commissioner of Police (East Zone) M Ramesh said no such incident of stopping the MP by the police or a clash with the police had happened on the OU campus. “The MP, along with his followers went inside the campus and conducted a meeting peacefully at the Arts College building,” he said. Addressing a gathering on the campus, Surya called upon the people of Telangana to pull down the dynasty rule of KCR. He said the BJP was the only party which could provide corruption-free and development-oriented rule in the country. He said the TRS government had done nothing for Hyderabad which was selected as a smart city by the Centre. “What happened to the tall promises of creating Pharma City, cleaning of Musi River and development of Hyderabad into a modern city,” the BJP MP asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-s-tejaswi-surya-accuses-hyderabad-cops-of-trying-to-stop-him-from-entering-osmania-university/story-VAs5iXb8h9ld79CWjZyT1M.html
24-11-2020||India||PAGD formed to restore Articles 370 and 35A, says Farooq Abdullah||President of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) Farooq Abdullah on Tuesday that the alliance will fight for the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status.His statement came during a video message asking people of Jammu and Kashmir to vote for the alliance candidates in the District Development Council (DDC) council polls .The PAGD also released the sixth list of its candidates for the District Development Council (DDC) council polls which will be held in eight phases from November 28.Abdullah and his son Omar Abdullah both are in isolation after one of their staff members tested positive for Covid-19.Also Watch l ‘Does Congress support restoration of Article 370’?: Ravi Shankar Prasad In a fervent appeal released on the Twitter handle of PAGD and later shared by leaders of other constituents of the alliance, Farooq Abdullah asked people to come out in large numbers and vote during DDC polls.“The bugle for the election has been sounded and it is my fervent appeal that you should come out in large numbers and vote for the PAGD candidates. The alliance has been formed to defend our identity and get back Articles 370 and 35A that had been snatched from us,” Abdullah said.He asked people to vote only for the alliance candidates. “Many people who are contesting these polls, falsely claim that they represent alliance while they are enemies of the alliance so people should only vote for alliance candidates.”Omar Abdullah also endorsed the message.“Dr Farooq Abdullah has recorded an appeal asking voters to support @JKPAGD candidates in the upcoming DDC polls in J&K. He looks forward to campaigning once the period of self-isolation ends,” tweeted Omar while posting his father’s video.PDP president, Mehbooba Mufti also posted the video and once again accused the government of creating hurdles for alliance candidates. Farooq Abdullah also released the sixth list of candidates comprising 13 names belonging to different constituents of the PAGD. In the latest list, the maximum candidates are from the National Conference. Of the 13 DDC seats across Kashmir, the NC will be contesting on eight seats, the PDP on three seats and the Awami National Conference and the Peoples Conference will be contesting on one each seat.The PAGD candidates would be contesting on the symbols of their respective parties they belong to. So far, PAGD has released the names of 117 candidates for the DDC polls in Kashmir. Union home minister Amit Shah last week in a scathing criticism of the PAGD termed its constituents as the “Gupkar Gang” that wants to take away the rights of Dalits, women and tribals that the Centre ensured by removing Article 370, which accorded special status to the erstwhile state, and dared Congress president Sonia Gandhi and her son Rahul Gandhi to clear the air on whether their party is backing the alliance.His remarks triggered a sharp response from the coalition.The PAGD leadership said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government at the Centre was trying to delegitimise a coalition that is taking part in a democratic process.The six parties, including regional powerhouses National Conference (NC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), have announced that they will fight the upcoming district development council (DDC) elections in J&K under the PAGD umbrella.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pagd-formed-to-restore-articles-370-and-35a-says-farooq-abdullah/story-fdGWDaaAVvEFsktyZJtbIJ.html
24-11-2020||India||India to build new dam, launch projects worth $80 million in Afghanistan||India on Tuesday unveiled new development initiatives for Afghanistan, including a dam to supply water to Kabul and 150 community projects worth $80 million, even as it called for an immediate and comprehensive ceasefire in the war-torn country. Against the backdrop of mounting global concern over increased attacks by the Taliban even as it engages the Afghan government in talks, external affairs minister S Jaishankar told a virtual international pledging conference that India is committed to a long-term role for the development of Afghanistan. India’s development portfolio of more than $3 billion is aimed at building the capabilities of the Afghan people and institutions with the aim of improving governance, he said. “There is no part of Afghanistan today untouched by our 400-plus projects spread across all the 34 provinces of Afghanistan,” he added. Also read | After India, Afghanistan rejects Pakistan’s so-called terror dossierJaishankar announced an agreement with Afghanistan to build Shahtoot Dam in the Kabul river basin to provide drinking water to two million residents of Kabul city. This will be built on the 202-km Pul-e-Khumri electricity transmission line built in 2009 to provide power to the city. India will also launch some 150 projects worth $80 million as part of the fourth phase of its high impact community development projects initiative, he said. This initiative is focused on smaller projects that can be completed speedily to benefit people in villages and districts. At the same time, Jaishankar expressed concern at the recent spike in violence in Afghanistan, which he described as a contiguous neighbour. “Increasing level of violence in Afghanistan naturally remains a matter of grave concern. While we support all efforts to bring peace and stability in Afghanistan, India calls for an immediate and comprehensive ceasefire. We also believe the peace process must be Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled,” he said. “India has invested heavily in peace and development in Afghanistan. We strongly believe the gains of the last two decades must be preserved, and that the interests of minorities, women and vulnerable sections must be ensured,” he added. Negotiating teams of the Taliban and the Afghan government have struggled to reach common ground in their talks in Doha even as international concern has grown about a spate of recent attacks, including a terrorist assault on Kabul University this month that killed nearly 30 people. Jaishankar said India’s developmental aid for Afghanistan was of five types – large infrastructure projects such as the 218-km Delaram-Zaranj road that provides alternative connectivity through Iran, the India-Afghanistan friendship dam and the Parliament building, human resource development, humanitarian assistance, high impact community projects and enhancing trade and investment through air and land connectivity. More than 65,000 students have studied in India under scholarship programmes, and 15,000 students are currently in India. Some 3,000 scholarships have been provided to Afghan women for higher studies, and vocational education is being provided to an increasing number of women in Afghanistan. However, Afghanistan’s growth has been constrained by its land-locked geography, and the India-developed Chabahar port in Iran has provided alternative connectivity that helped transport 75,000 tonnes of wheat and more than 20 tonnes of medicines and equipment during the Covid-19 pandemic, Jaishankar said. The 2020 Afghanistan Conference is being co-hosted in Geneva by the governments of Afghanistan and Finland with the UN during November 23–24. In addition to pledges of financial support, a new development framework, a joint political declaration and a new aid architecture for Afghanistan’s development needs will be drawn up during the conference. The European Union pledged $1.2 billion to Afghanistan for the next four years at the conference. Several ministers, including Canada’s international development minister Karina Gould, called on the Taliban to declare an immediate ceasefire.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-build-new-dam-launch-projects-worth-80-million-in-afghanistan/story-ZOBPcjAR39rXjhY1Lf3yNK.html
24-11-2020||India||No coercive action will be taken against slum dwellers along railway tracks in Delhi: Govt to SC||The Centre Tuesday told the Supreme Court that deliberations on the issue related to removal of around 48,000 slum dwellings along the railway tracks in Delhi were going on and no coercive action would be taken against them.A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde was told by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta that he had made a statement before the apex court on September 14 that authorities are going to take a decision on the issue and till then no coercive action would be taken against these slum dwellers.“The deliberations are going on. We are not taking any coercive steps,” Mehta told the bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian.The bench, while taking note of Mehta’s submission, said it would hear the matter after four weeks.“Solicitor General states that government is deliberating on the issue. Stand over for four weeks,” the bench said.The top court on August 31 had directed the removal of around 48,000 slum dwellings along the railway tracks in Delhi within three months and said there shall not be any kind of political interference in execution of the plan.On September 14, Mehta had told the top court that Ministry of Railways, the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs and the Delhi Government are going to take a decision on the issue and till then they will not take any coercive action against the slum dwellers residing along the around 140 km railway tracks in the national capital.The apex court is hearing the applications, including the one filed by senior Congress leader Ajay Maken who has sought rehabilitation of these slum dwellers prior to their removal. The application filed by Maken has sought a direction to the Ministry of Railways, Delhi Government and Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) to rehabilitate the slum dwellers prior to eviction/demolition of their dwellings. It has also sought direction to the Ministry of Railways, Delhi Government and DUSIB to follow the Delhi Slum and JJ Rehabilitation and Relocation Policy, 2015 and the Protocol (for removal of Jhuggis) in letter and spirit. Referring to the Covid-19 situation in the country, it has said that in these circumstances, it would be highly risky to demolish the hutments/ jhuggis of more than 2,50,000 people without prior rehabilitation as they will be forced to move from place to place in search of shelter and livelihood. Maken has said in his plea that since the slum dwellers were not parties in the case, either directly or in representative capacity, their stance and the relevant documents could not be brought before this court for its kind consideration. The Congress leader and co-petitioner Kailash Pandit have said that they are filing the intervention application seeking additional directions for rehabilitation of the affected population prior to their displacement. On August 31, the top court has directed that the slum dwellings will be removed in a phased manner. It had also restrained any court from granting any kind of stay with respect to removal of encroachments in the area and said in case any interim order is granted with respect to encroachments along railway tracks that shall not be effective. The top court had said that 70 per cent of the requisite amount shall be borne by the Railways and 30 per cent by the State Government and the manpower be provided by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), Railways and agencies available with the Government, free of cost, and they will not charge it from each other.On February 28, the top court had taken note of “heaps of plastic bags and garbage” lying on both sides of railway lines in outer Delhi region and asked Delhi government, civic bodies and Environment Pollution Control Authority to make a concrete plan for its removal. This issue had cropped up before the apex court which is hearing matters related to pollution in the Delhi-national capital region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-coercive-action-will-be-taken-against-slum-dwellers-along-railway-tracks-in-delhi-govt-to-sc/story-fwt1mkxKL8hkq5UNiXOY2I.html
24-11-2020||India||Bihar: Grand Alliance fields RJD MLA for Speaker’s post||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD)-led Grand Alliance (GA) has fielded Awadh Bihari Choudhary as candidate against ruling National Democratic Alliance ( NDA) candidate Vijay Kumar Sinha for the post of Speaker in the Bihar assembly. The Opposition’s move would ensure a contest for the Speaker’s post and would also be the first test of strength for chief minister Nitish Kumar-led NDA government which has a slender majority in the 243-member House. The GA’s move, breaking the tradition of election of the Speaker unanimously, has also signalled how the Opposition, with its 110 MLAs, is in no mood to give the NDA, with 126 MLAs, much leeway inside the assembly. More so, because the NDA banks heavily on the support of smaller allies like Vikasheel Inssan Party( VIP) and Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM)(S). Leaders of the BJP and JD(U) went into a huddle soon after the GA announced its candidate for Speaker’s post. Its MLAs have admitted privately that the coalition has come under strain over the Opposition’s move. Also read | After Rahul Gandhi, RJD leader mocks Sushil Modi, lists ‘reasons’ for his ousterAfter filing their nominations on Tuesday afternoon, both Choudhary,who is a six-time RJD MLA and Sinha, a senior BJP MLA, exuded confidence about having the required number of MLAs to win the election. Both of them have served as ministers in previous governments. “ The RJD, and GA allies, Congress and three Left parties, felt the need to field our own candidate as Choudhary is a senior legislator with wide experience and has the ability to run the House impartially by striking a balance between Opposition and ruling parties. His election as Speaker would help members raise people’s issues and get them addressed,” said Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, leader of the GA and Leader of the Opposition leader in the assembly. On whether Asaduddin Owaisi-led AIMIM would support Choudhary, Yadav was evasive and said, “We are appealing to all to support our candidate as he is a seasoned legislator having the capability to run the House smoothly.” As far as the GA’s decision to field its own candidate was concerned, Yadav said, “During the last election for deputy chairman’s post in Rajya Sabha, there was a decision to field a candidate from United Progressive Alliance and our Rajya Sabha MP Manoj Jha contested it. Have all precedents been followed? There is a precedence that deputy Speaker’s post goes to the Opposition in the state assembly but it was never done by the NDA government despite repeated requests by us.” Meanwhile, the ruling NDA leaders said the GA’s move to field its candidate would not hamper the prospects of their candidate. “The NDA has made Sinha the candidate for Speaker’s post. We will win,” said senior BJP leader Sanjay Sarougi. Senior MLAs and experts said the election for the Speaker’s post would first be through voice vote. In case, the Opposition expresses dissatisfaction over the election results declared by Pro-tem Speaker Jitan Ram Manjhi, there would be a vote through counting of members in favour and against the respective candidates. Significantly, the NDA’s bid to nominate Sinha as a candidate for Speaker’s post has come as a surprise as senior BJP MLA and former minister Nand Kishore Yadav was a front runner for the post, having not been given a ministerial berth in the Cabinet. He is also among the prominent faces in the state BJP who have not got a post in the new NDA government so far, like former deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi and former minister Prem Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-grand-alliance-fields-rjd-mla-for-speaker-s-post/story-7PLWtGobKd8VMwTwK6rpRL.html
24-11-2020||India||MP govt orders probe into alleged Rs 106cr illegal fund transfer to Congress||Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra on Tuesday ordered an inquiry into reported transfer of unaccounted money to the account of All India Congress Committee from the year 2016 to 2019, allegedly done by the previous government led by former chief minister and MP Congress committee president Kamal Nath. Earlier on Monday, a TV news channel broke a story that the Income Tax department has launched an investigation into the source of Rs 106 crore, transferred to AICC account. “We have always said that the previous Congress-led state government was the most corrupt government. The brokers were active during the tenure of the previous government and people were busy minting money. Funds to fight malnutrition allotted to the women and child development department was spent on take care of Rahul Gandhi’s malnutrition. The social welfare fund was getting deposited for Gandhi(s) welfare.,” said MP home minister Narottam Mishra. Also Read: Night curfew to travel restrictions: States take fresh guard against Covid-19“Kamal Nath has committed a heinous crime of looting poor people of MP. The way Kamal Nath looted money and sent it outside, it reminds me of Mohammad Ghazni,” added Mishra. He added that the economic offences wing will also inquire into the matter.Also Read: 2 Netflix executives booked for temple kissing scene in web-series Suitable Boy“The state government took cognisance in the matter. We will take advice of legal experts and will also get documents from the Income Tax department. Economic Offence Wing (EOW) will hold an inquiry in the matter,” he said. MP Congress leader Narendra Saluja said, “We are giving an open challenge to hold investigations and prove the accusations. They themselves are highly corrupt. All the accusations are baseless and it is nothing but a political vendetta.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-govt-orders-probe-into-alleged-rs-106cr-illegal-fund-transfer-to-congress/story-f8rvrtWPAxNqi4vKDEUkgP.html
24-11-2020||India||Kangana Ranaut, sister granted interim protection by Bombay HC, to appear before police on January 8||The Bombay high court on Tuesday granted interim protection from arrest to actor Kangana Ranaut and her sister Rangoli Chandel in a sedition case. The court was hearing the case against Ranaut and her sister after an FIR was registered against them.The high court, however, directed them to appear before Mumbai Police on January 8.The FIR was registered following orders from a magistrate’s court in Mumbai’s Bandra directing the police to carry out an inquiry against Ranaut and her sister after a complaint lodged against them for allegedly “trying to create hatred and communal tension” through their social media posts.The complaint was file by casting director Munawwar Ali. He said that the sisters, through their social media posts, have defamed the entire film industry.Also read | Sedition case: Mumbai Police issue third notice to actor Kangana Ranaut, sisterThe sisters had approached the high court seeking to quash the FIR and the October 17 order passed by the magistrate.Also Watch l Sushant death, nepotism row, Hrithik Roshan: How controversies follow Kangana Ranaut and Chandel’s advocate Rizwan Siddiquee assured the court that the sisters shall appear before the Bandra police in Mumbai on January 8 from 12 noon to 2 pm for recording of their statements.The court also asked why sedition charges were invoked in the case.“Why is the sedition section invoked? Why are we treating citizens of our country like this?” Justice SS Shinde said.The high court said it would consider this issue at length on the next date. The court posted the plea for further hearing on January 11.Also read | ‘If every petty crime’s punishment is beheading...’: Kangana Ranaut on Canadian PM’s free speech commentThe case was heard by two-judge bench of justices Shinde and M S Karnik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kangana-ranaut-sister-granted-interim-protection-by-court-to-appear-before-police-on-january-8/story-FCyGjD6Rm1QFtMqzHkgOyO.html
24-11-2020||India||Uttarakhand to allow pilgrims for Mahakumbh after negative Covid-19 test||Amid the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the state and country, the Uttarakhand government is planning to allow pilgrims to attend the upcoming Haridwar Mahakumbh only after undergoing a Covid-19 test, said officials. The development came after chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat held a review meeting of the Mahakumbh preparations with Mahakumbh officials, Haridwar district administration and police officials. “It is our responsibility to ensure that pilgrims are able to take holy bath safely amid this pandemic. For that a mechanism should be made to allow only those pilgrims who have undergone a Covid-19 test and turn out negative in that,” said Rawat in the meeting.Rawat also said that arrangement for thermal screening and conducting rapid antigen test should be made at the entry points of the mela.” He also directed the authorities to make arrangements for the registration of pilgrims coming for Mahakumbh on the government online portal. “Also, awareness should be spread with the help of saints and seers so that the pilgrims adhere to precautions like wearing masks and maintaining social distancing,” said Rawat. The chief minister also stated that the officials should control the number of pilgrims coming to Mahakumbh. “For that, the officials concerned should make a framework after talking to other states,” he said. However, health experts say that the government plans to allow pilgrims who have undergone a Covid-19 test or were carrying their Rapid Antigen test results at the Mahakumbh entry points is ‘impractical.’ Also Read: Ganga’s status in Haridwar to be restored finally as CM vows to scrap Congress order“The government plan to hold Rapid Antigen test of pilgrims at the mela entry points is neither practical nor possible. It will take a huge amount of resources including both medical equipment and trained manpower. Instead of that, the government should ask the pilgrims to bring their Covid-19 negative test report not more than 48 hours old,” said Dr DD Chowdhury, state secretary Uttarakhand Indian Medical Association.He also suggested that the government should rather ensure strict adherence to precautions like wearing of masks and maintaining social distancing. “It should distribute masks to pilgrims who are not having their own. The government could also set up a medical intelligence team to filter out the suspected Covid-19 infected people at Mahakumbh and then provide them proper treatment,” said Dr Chowdhury, adding that the government is likely to face an uphill task in ensuring the safety of people coming to attend Mahakumbh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-to-allow-pilgrims-for-mahakumbh-after-negative-covid-19-test/story-zsA6WijG3cu6vVyBeHxJJJ.html
24-11-2020||India||Rs 800 crore Environment Relief Fund lying unused, NGT slams Environment ministry||The National Green Tribunal has slammed the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF) for non-utilisation of over Rs 800 crore meant towards Environment Relief Fund for victims of accidents in the process of handling hazardous substances.A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel and Justice S K Singh noted that Public Liabilities Insurance Act provides that United India Insurance Company Ltd. shall be the Fund Manager for five years who shall open an account in a nationalized bank and credit the amount of premium received as well as the amount awarded by the tribunal.“It is acknowledged that an amount of Rs 881 crore has been deposited till March 31, 2020 with the Fund Manager, United India Insurance Company Ltd., there is no information whether any amount has been utilised.“We find it to be travesty of justice that even after 29 years of the enactment of a laudable welfare legislation and inspite of deposit of huge amount meant for the needy victims, the amount remains unutilised to the detriment of the victims for whose benefit the law was enacted,” the bench said.The NGT said there is an urgent need for bridging gaps in existence and enforcement of such law by all concerned. “The MoEF being nodal Ministry may look into this aspect and take necessary action. Industrial chemical accidents lead to injury to workers and fatalities.  “There is need to link Liability Risk Policies to be taken by the industries under the PLI Act, 1991 with the consent conditions under the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 and the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 as well as Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 and the Rules,” the bench said.State pollution control boards may ensure that industries required to take policies under PLI Act, 1991 are not granted with consents under the Water and Air Acts and the Authorization under Environment (Protection) Rules, 1986 till such a policy is obtained, the bench said.“We also request the National Legal Service Authority and the State Legal Service Authorities, constituted under the Legal Service Authority Act, 1987, for assistance to the victims of injustice to access justice to look into the matter and take such action as may be found appropriate at their end,” the bench said.The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by retired government official Gyan Prakash highlighting the non-utilisation of more than Rs. 800 crore meant towards Environment Relief Fund under the Public Liabilities Insurance Act, 1991 (PLI Act, 1991) for victims of accidents in the process of handling hazardous substances.The plea said the fund is lying unutilised and the purpose for which law was enacted is not being achieved. The victims are suffering on account of ignorance and even Collectors who are required to publish information are not doing so, the plea said. PTI PKS RKS RKS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-800-crore-environment-relief-fund-lying-unused-ngt-slams-environment-ministry/story-NlAFNaCYtNZvB0GL8vhL4K.html
24-11-2020||India||Customs arrest suspended IAS officer M Sivasankar in Kerala gold smuggling case||The Customs department on Tuesday formally arrested suspended senior bureaucrat M Sivasankar, Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s former principal secretary, in connection with the sensational gold smuggling case. Currently in judicial custody in connection with money laundering charges related to smuggling, Customs said in the custody report that he was aware of the gold smuggling through the UAE consular office and he often helped some of the accused. He was suspended from service after his alleged liaison with main accused in the smuggling case Swapna Suresh surfaced. Last month the Enforcement Directorate (ED) had arrested him under the prevention of money laundering act. After recording his arrest in Ernakulam district jail, Customs has moved an application for his custody. In the custody report it said it has got incriminating evidence suggesting his involvement in the crime. For the last three months, Sivasankar maintained that though he knew Suresh as a friend, he was not aware of her smuggling activities. Fifth accused in the ED case he will be made eighth accused in the smuggling case also, a senior Customs official said. A multi-agency probe led by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) is probing the gold smuggling, money laundering and related cases. A powerful bureaucrat often touted as the CM’s blue-eyed boy, Sivasankar fell from grace after the smuggling case came to light. After main accused Swapna Suresh’s arrest from Bengaluru by the NIA, reports surfaced that he was allegedly close to her and travelled with her during some foreign trips. Later, probe agencies also found that he was instrumental in getting her a good post in the government-controlled Space Park and allegedly helped her taking up a flat outside the state secretariat which was later used by smugglers. There are reports that he pressurized the Customs department to release the baggage after recovery of the gold. The smuggling case surfaced on July 5 after seizure of 30 kg smuggled gold from a consignment camouflaged as diplomatic baggage at the UAE consulate in the state capital. Later the CM had written to Prime Minister Modi seeking a central agency probe. The ED had summoned another senior official in the CM’s office C M Raveendran for questioning next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/customs-arrest-suspended-ias-officer-m-sivasankar-in-kerala-gold-smuggling-case/story-v9KUgcyPzHfol9pUR4LYNJ.html
24-11-2020||India||Agitators call of protests against resettlement of Bru migrants in Tripura||Local organisations in Tripura’s north Tripura district have called off their indefinite strike in protest against the resettlement of 32,000 Bru migrants after the government assured them that their demands would be considered.The strike that began a week ago was called by Joint Movement Committee (JMC) comprising Nagarik Suraksha Mancha and Mizo Convention at Kanchanpur sub division in North district. The protesters demanded that the Bru migrants should not be settled in large numbers here as they claimed it would change demography of the place. As part of their protest, they blocked the National Highway at Panisagar sub division in the district on Saturday that led to a clash with the police and security personnel leaving two dead and 23 injured. One protester and a Fire Service personnel were among the dead. At a meeting with government officials and public representatives on Monday, the JMC demanded compensation of Rs. 20 lakh for the family of the protester along with a government job for a family member, treatment for the injured and a financial package for repairing vehicles damaged during the clash.“We have withdrawn the strike for a temporary period as the state government assured us to consider our demands,” said JMC convener Sushanta Barua. He said that another meeting with the government is likely to take place in a day or two about certain issues which he did not share. They would resume the strike if their demands are not fulfilled in some time, he said. A statement from the Revenue Department stated that the state already identified various locations spread across six districts for resettlement of the Bru migrants. Condemning the clash happened at Panisagar, assistant general secretary of BJP’s alliance partner Indigenous People’s Front of Tripura (IPFT) Mangal Debbarma demanded punishment for the JMC leaders and Rs. 20 lakh to the families of two deceased in the clash. The CPM too, condemned the firing and appealed that a dialogue should be initiated between the protesters and the government to come to an amicable solution. They also said that the Bru resettlement process should be carried out without disturbing the interests of local residents.Congress vice president Tapas Dey criticised the firing on the protesters and said that the state government totally failed to control the situation. After the clash, the government ordered a magisterial inquiry which will submit its report in a month. The government also announced Rs. 5 lakh compensation for the dead protester’s family. Over 32,000 Bri migrants crossed over to Tripura from Mizoram’s Mamit, Kolasib and Lunglei districts in 1997 following an ethnic clash and have been staying at six relief camps located at Kanchanpur and Panisagar sub divisions. After two decades, the Bru migrants would get resettlement in Tripura following an agreement signed among the Centre, governments of Tripura and Mizoram and the Bru migrants in January this year. The agreement also had a package of Rs. 600 crore for their resettlement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/agitators-call-of-protests-against-resettlement-of-bru-migrants-in-tripura/story-fDpUchcRhi1U2DZcntuFfI.html
24-11-2020||India||Centre invites farm leaders from Punjab for next round of talks on December 3||The Union government has invited representatives of over 30 farmers’ organisations from Punjab, who are protesting a set of laws enacted recently to liberalise the farm sector, for a second round of talks on December 3, an official told HT on Tuesday. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and railways, food and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal had held day-long negotiations on November 13 with leaders of several farmers’ groups in an attempt to end over two months of a politically challenging agitation. The discussions were inconclusive, but both sides had agreed to continue negotiations in the future. A letter from Sudhangshu Pandey, secretary to the Union government, addressed to farmers’ representatives stated that minister Tomar “would like to invite them for the next round of talks on December 3, as it was agreed by both sides that discussions on various farmers’ issues will continue”. Also read | Farmers protesting farm laws in Amritsar block Golden Temple MailTwo days ago, farmers in Punjab agreed to allow passenger trains to run through the state for a period of 15 days. Farm organisations in the state have blockaded rail tracks and road transport as part of their protest. Food bowl Punjab is at the centre stage of a farmers’ agitation against moves to open up agricultural markets in the country and bring sweeping reforms to the farm sector, which supports nearly half the population. Farmers have demanded a repeal of three laws enacted by Parliament in September which, together, allow agribusinesses to freely trade farm produce without restrictions, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales and lay down new rules for contract farming. Farmers say the reforms would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, erode their bargaining power and weaken the government’s minimum support price system, which offers cultivators assured prices from the government, largely for wheat and rice. The government’s invitation to the farmers’ representatives comes ahead of a planned march to the national Capital by farmers from neighbouring states, including Punjab and Haryana, on November 26-27. In the November 13 meet, farm leaders had demanded an outright repeal of the three laws and a roll back of the reforms; a legislation guaranteeing minimum support prices; resumption of goods train services in Punjab; pending Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020, be sent to a select committee; and the repeal of an air pollution ordinance for the national Capital that aims to crack down on farm stubble fires.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-invites-farm-leaders-from-punjab-for-next-round-of-talks-on-december-3/story-bbTpS9NLYUMt4dCbcf086K.html
24-11-2020||India||Covid-19: Daily positivity rate dips below 4 per cent in India||India has conducted over 13.36 crore tests so far to detect Covid-19 cases, including 10,99,545 in a day, while the cumulative positivity rate in the country is sustained at low levels and the daily positivity rate has fallen below four per cent, the health ministry said on Tuesday.The country registered less than 40,000 fresh coronavirus cases in a span of 24 hours after six days. Since November 8, the number of daily cases has been sustained below the 50,000-mark, the ministry said.On an average, more than 10 lakh daily tests have ensured that the cumulative positivity rate is sustained at low levels, the ministry underlined, adding that it is presently following a downward trajectory.The tests per million (TPM) figure has increased to 96,871, it highlighted.India’s testing infrastructure has seen a significant boost with 2,134 laboratories across the country currently.Read more | At PM Modi’s review meet on Covid-19, Amit Shah sets a 3-point target for CMsIn line with its commitment to conduct more than 10 lakh tests per day, 10,99,545 samples were tested in a span of 24 hours, the ministry said.“The cumulative national Covid-19 positivity rate stands at 6.87 per cent as on date, less than the seven per cent-mark, while the daily positivity rate is just 3.45 per cent. Higher volumes of testing eventually lead to a low positivity rate,” it said.There has been a sustained decrease in the number of active cases over the past few weeks, the ministry said, adding that 42,314 Covid-19 patients recovered from the disease and were discharged in a span of 24 hours.The active Covid-19 caseload of the country has fallen to 4,38,667 or merely 4.78 per cent of the total cases reported so far, while the number of recoveries has crossed 86 lakh, the ministry said, adding that 75.71 per cent of the new recoveries were concentrated in 10 states and Union territories.Click here for complete coverage of the Coronavirus pandemic. Delhi has reported the highest number of 7,216 single-day recoveries, followed by Kerala (5,425) and Maharashtra (3,729), it said.Further, 77.04 per cent of the fresh Covid-19 cases were reported from 10 states and Union territories.Delhi continued to report the highest number of daily cases at 4,454, followed by Maharashtra (4,153), the ministry said.A total of 480 case fatalities were reported in a span of 24 hours, it added.Ten states and Union territories accounted for 73.54 per cent of the new deaths. Delhi saw the maximum casualties (121), followed by West Bengal (47) and Maharashtra (30), the ministry observed.India’s Covid-19 caseload mounted to 91,77,840 with 37,975 fresh cases reported in a day, while the death toll due to the disease climbed to 1,34,218 with 480 new fatalities, health ministry’s data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/covid-19-daily-positivity-rate-dips-below-4-per-cent-in-india/story-lJovJLVatzUqXEihm2Y4bN.html
24-11-2020||India||Kerala high court asks activist Rehana Fathima to not use ‘gomatha’ as synonym for beef||Kerala High Court has barred activist Rehana Fathima from posting anything on the internet after a complaint was lodged against her for using “gomatha” to describe meat in one of her videos, saying the word could hurt the religious sentiments of Hindus who consider the cow as sacred, according to legal news website Bar and Bench. Fathima was heard repeatedly referring to meat as “gomatha” in a video of a cookery show on social media called “Gomatha Ularthu” while giving out the recipe, the website reported.“There cannot be any dispute that the term ‘gomatha’ as is commonly understood is with reference to holy or sacred cows. Scriptures quoted by the complainant show that since the Vedic period, the cow is revered as holy as deities, in India. If it is so believed by several lakhs of Hindus throughout the country, definitely, the use of the term gomatha as a synonym for meat used in a cookery show, prima facie, is likely to wound the religious feelings of those believers,” the bench headed by Justice Sunil Thomas observed.Thomas also highlighted that the usage of the term also violated the conditions of the bail granted to her by Kerala High Court in 2018 in a separate case connected to the Sabarimala protests where she had published material offensive to Lord Ayyappa. The court had then, while granting bail to Fathima, directed that she should not through “print, electronic or visual media make, disseminate, share or forward any comment which has the propensity to affect religious sentiments of any community”, Bar and Bench reported.The complainant, in that case, filed a complaint against Fathima and argued she has continuously repeated the word in order to hurt the religious sentiments of Hindus. “Uploading of such a highly objectionable video for public viewing may affect the fundamental right of the devotees,” the court pointed out. “Till the trial in Crime No.2405 of 2018 is over, accused shall not directly, indirectly or through any other person publish, transmit, share, upload or disseminate or publish any material or any of her comments through any visual and electronic media, open to public,” it said.The high court has also asked her to remove the video from the internet. It also asked Fathima to report before the police on Mondays and Saturdays over the next three months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-high-court-asks-activist-rehana-fathima-to-not-use-gomatha-as-synonym-for-beef/story-T7V7Xhp1vUeEm02adP70VM.html
24-11-2020||India||Who said what at PM Modi’s review meet on Covid-19 situation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday met chief ministers from several states and Union Territories, which have been reporting rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The pandemic situation across these regions was dealt with in the first part and the strategy to distribute the vaccine against the coronavirus disease, once it is ready, was discussed in the second.Union home minister Amit Shah, health minister Harsh Vardhan, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani joined the virtual meeting.While the Prime Minister made the concluding statement and spoke about the vaccine plan ahead, some of the chief ministers informed Modi about the Covid-19 situation in their states.Here’s who said what at the meeting:Narendra Modi: While making a concluding statement at the end of the review meeting, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said though a final plan cannot be charted yet, the states must start prepping for adequate delivery and storage facilities for Covid-19 vaccine. He also asked the chief ministers to send him potential strategies, especially regarding the vaccine, at the earliest. “Safety is as important as speed for us, whichever vaccine India will give to its citizens will be safe on all scientific standards. Vaccine distribution strategy will be chalked out in collective coordination with states. States must also start working cold storage facilities,” he said.Amit Shah: The Union home minister asked the chief ministers of states experiencing Covid-19 spike to draw a strategy to ensure mortality rate due to the viral disease come down below 1% and the new cases must not exceed 5% of the existing level. Shah also told the chief ministers to make the containment zones in their states dynamic. Officials must visit the red zones every week and based on data collected, change the status of a particular area, he said.Arvind Kejriwal: The Delhi chief minister informed Prime Minister Modi that the national capital, which is witnessing the third wave of Covid-19, saw a peak of 8,600 Covid-19 cases on November 10 after which the cases have been steadily declining, he said. Kejriwal added that pollution caused by stubble burning in the neighbouring states played a key role in the high severity of the third wave of Covid-19 in the city. He sought Modi’s intervention to come up with a solution to get rid of the pollution.Uddhav Thackeray: Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray told the Prime Minister that the state has formed a task force to ensure distribution of the anti-coronavirus disease vaccine and executing the vaccination programme. Thackeray added that the state is in touch with Adar Poonawala, CEO of Serum Institute of India (SII), which has partnered with the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine against Covid-19.Manohar Lal Khattar: After the meeting, Haryana chief minister said that they have been told to make a strategy to make Covid-19 vaccines available to the general public. As it is not possible to vaccinate everyone at once in the first phase, the shot will be provided to healthcare personnel and people who need it the most. In the second phase, it will be made available for essential service providers and then there will be two phases in which there will be age-wise distribution, he said, according to news agency ANI.Vijay Rupani: Gujarat chief minister said the Prime Minister made it clear that in the first stage, the vaccine will be given to the frontline health workers. In the second stage, it will be provided to police personnel, sanitation workers etc, to those above 50 years of age in the third stage and to those with comorbid conditions in the fourth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-said-what-at-pm-modi-s-review-meet-on-covid-19-situation/story-XD5rmac9PfNFJGy8riCV8L.html
24-11-2020||India||‘What funds did Centre provide for development, flood relief to Hyderabad?’ asks Owaisi||Targetting the BJP, All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi has asked the Central government what funds it has provided to Hyderabad since 2019 for development or now as flood relief.“Daily one or another person is landing from Delhi through a parachute. PM Narendra Modi and BJP are hurt after I asked what funds have they (BJP) given to Hyderabad for development since 2019? What relief did they (BJP) provide after the floods in the city,” Owaisi said while addressing a public gathering at Azampura under Malakpet Constituency of Hyderabad.Owaisi was campaigning for his party for the upcoming Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections, which is slated to be held on December 1 and results of which will be declared after counting of votes on December 4.Read more | ‘BJP intends to create hatred’: AIMIM’s Owaisi responds to Tejasvi Surya’s attack“BJP is frustrated. The Information and Broadcasting Minister came here and said that if people vote for AIMIM, TRS will be benefitted. Some relate me to Jinnah, claim that AIMIM promotes ‘radicalisation’. Now that the GHMC Elections are coming up, they have nothing to tell but make false allegations,” Owaisi said.“BJP is saying that there are 30,000-40,000 Rohingyas in the electoral rolls... If there are 30,000 Rohingyas in the voter list, what is Home Minister Amit Shah doing? Is he sleeping? Isn’t this his job to see how are 30,000-40,000 Rohingyas listed?” he asked challenging the BJP to show names of 1,000 Rohingyas in the electoral list.Earlier, Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) chief and Lok Sabha MP Tejasvi Surya had called Asaduddin Owaisi as the new “avatar” of Pakistan’s Quaid-e-Azam Muhammad Ali Jinnah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-funds-did-centre-provide-for-development-flood-relief-to-hyderabad-asks-owaisi/story-FFcKXvEYRCTnLC6p3eQy3N.html
24-11-2020||India||Semi-decomposed bodies of couple found in flat||Semi-composed bodies of an elderly couple were recovered from an apartment in the city’s Girish Park area on Tuesday, a senior police officer said.Neighbours alerted the police after they noticed that foul smell was emanating from a flat on the second floor of an apartment on Ram Dulal Sakar Street, he said.The police broke open the door and recovered the bodies of Biswajit Mitra (71) and Sipra Mitra (68).“Preliminary investigation revealed that the couple was depressed due to financial crisis. Though we are yet to find any suicide note, it seems the duo died by suicide,” the investigative officer at Girish Park police station said.The bodies were sent to RG Kar Medical College and Hospital for post mortem, he said.“We are waiting for the postmortem report. A probe into the matter has been initiated,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/semi-decomposed-bodies-of-couple-found-in-flat/story-HXgGSBUUlgNuK98l9soPsK.html
24-11-2020||India||CBI files closure report in Navruna murder case in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur||More than six years after it took up the case of kidnapping and murder of a 14-year-old girl Navruna, the Central Bureau of Investigation filed a closure report in the special CBI court in Muzaffarpur on Monday evening.The CBI had taken over the case on February 24, 2014.Navruna, a seventh standard student, had gone missing from her ancestral house at Chakravorty lane along Muzaffarpur’s Jawahar Lal Road under the town police station on the intervening night of September 17-18, 2012. The land mafia was suspected to have carried out the abduction and murder. They were said to be eyeing a chunk of land, which Navruna’s father, Atulya Chakraborty, wanted to sell. Her disappearance was first investigated by the district police and Crime Investigation Department (CID). With no headway in the case, it was handed over to the CBI.Ajay Kumar, a deputy superintendent of police in the CBI and chief investigator in the case, submitted the closure report on Monday more than a month before the Supreme Court’s December 31 deadline to file a charge sheet and action taken report. It was the tenth extension that the CBI had sought from the Supreme Court.Kumar refused to speak to media persons saying that he was not authorised to do so. But a source in the court said that it was a 40-page report. “The agency has mentioned all details of 86 points of investigation. They chiefly mentioned that they failed to collect evidence against anybody including 10 people who were arrested earlier during the probe. They have also written down the names of 60 witnesses, out of which 7 had undergone brain mapping, polygraphy and narco test,” said the source.He also said that the CBI conceded that it could not collect evidence despite announcing a bounty of Rs 10 lakh for information.“Our endeavour of getting some clues in this regard after the announcement has gone in vain as no one turned up before us with any evidence. It has not worked,” the CBI said in the closure report, according to the source.The agency also asserted that the pieces of a skeleton found in a drain near Chakravorty’s house was of Navruna. “This is the first time that the CBI has acknowledged in writing that the teenager was killed after she was abducted,” he said.Meanwhile the advocate of Chakravorty family, Ranjana Kumari said that she and her client were anticipating the CBI to file a closure report. But Navruna’s father also said that he still has faith in the apex court. “Since some powerful bureaucrats, politicians and land sharks are involved in my daughter’s killing, I was anticipating this from the investigating agency,” said Chakravorty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-files-closure-report-in-navruna-murder-case-in-bihar-s-muzaffarpur/story-Dfodkun9xPZHSb6S8End8L.html
24-11-2020||India||Covid-19 situation in Bengal under control, CM Mamata Banerjee tells PM Narendra Modi||The Covid-19 situation in West Bengal is under control and the state is tackling the pandemic situation well, chief minister Mamata Banerjee told Prime Minister Narendra Modi during a video conference on Tuesday, a senior government official said. Banerjee is learnt to have urged the Prime Minister to send funds to tackle the pandemic situation and release the due GST compensation. “The chief minister briefed the PM that the Covid-19 situation in West Bengal is under control despite the fact that the state shares international boundaries, festive season has just ended and train services have resumed,” the official added. Also read | Karnataka is well prepared for Covid vaccine delivery: State health ministerShe has also reminded the Prime Minister that the state has already spent more than Rs4,000 crore to tackle the pandemic but the Chas sent less than Rs200 crore. “The chief minister has assured the PM of full cooperation when it comes to the vaccine and its distribution,” the official said. West Bengal has reported 459,000 Covid-19 cases till Monday with more than 3,500 new cases added on November 23 alone. As many as 8,072 persons have died of the disease in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-situation-in-bengal-under-control-cm-mamata-banerjee-tells-pm-narendra-modi/story-DRWO6sFlY2wotnBjZsrHIL.html
24-11-2020||India||Gadgets used by Pak’s 4 Jaish terrorists help India solve Jan 31 terror strike||The communication devices used by the four killed Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) terrorists at Ban toll plaza in Jammu on November 19 have provided a vital key to establish that Pakistan was also behind a similar infiltration by the same proscribed group on January 31, 2020, people familiar with the matter said.On January 31 this year, Indian security forces gunned down three Jaish terrorists near the same toll plaza and arrested three overground workers after the early morning encounter. Among those arrested was the driver of the truck, Sameer Ahmed Dar.Dar was the first cousin of Adil Dar, the suicide bomber who rammed his explosive-laden Maruti Eeco car into a CRPF bus at Pulwama on February 14, 2019, killing 40 CRPF personnel.Watch: BSF officer enters tunnel used by Jaish terrorists; nails Pakistan role Investigations into the November 19 Nagrota encounter have revealed similarities beyond communication devices used by the two groups of Jaish terrorists and firmly establish that the Pakistani deep state uses Jaish to infiltrate into India from terror camps at Shakargarh across the Samba border, a security official said.The four terrorists, who were killed on 19 November, had entered India through a 200-metre tunnel dug from the Pakistani side.What has surprised Indian investigators is the engineering detail that went into construction of the tunnel at Pillar 189 that was used by Nagrota attackers to reach the pick-up point at Jatwal, 12 km from the International Border.The tunnel, obviously constructed with the help of Pakistani Rangers, is 200 metres long with enough space for terrorists to walk and cross the border. The tunnel is 40 metres long on the Pakistani side entry point.“The Shakargarh Jaish camp is a place where Jaish jihadists trained as far as Peshawar and Bahawalpur assemble to launch into India for terror attacks. The Shakargarh bulge is on the sensitive chicken neck area of India and vital to national security,” said a senior official.Security officials, who compared the communication devices used by the terrorists killed on 19 November found many similarities with the gadgets used by terrorists intercepted in January this year.Land Mobile Radio set MPD-2505 Make-Micro, Made in PakistanOn both the occasions the same LMR sets have been used and had consecutive serial numbers. While the serial number of LMR on January 31 was 908331P00059, the number on November 19 was 908331P00058. Both the sets were named as “ Radio Alias: Freedom Fighter.” The call signs used on January 31 were p1, p2,p4,p5,p55,g1: and on November 19, the signs were p1, p55, p11 and p66.ICOM VHF setsOn both the occasions, similar ICOM sets have been recovered.GPS Device Garmin Etrex 20XThe same type of hand-held device was used in both the incidents for earmarking the infiltration route. Investigators have also observed that both the GPS devices were damaged by the terrorists in a similar manner as they had been trained to do by their Pak handlers.Same frequencies recovered from LMR setsThis means that the communication devices used by the Pakistani handlers are the same.The common digital frequencies are : 143.500Mhz, 147.270 Mhz, 149.310 Mhz, 150.230 Mhz, 151.230 Mhz, 155.610 Mhz, 157.220Mhz, 160.430Mhz, 162.340 Mhz, 165.710 Mhz. The common analog frequencies are : 145.100 Mhz, 144.700Mhz, 143. 702 Mhz, 143.548 Mhz and 143.887 Mhz.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/communication-gadgets-used-by-4-jaish-terrorists-point-to-pak-role/story-dl83SuJ67WIImquimbILEP.html
24-11-2020||India||Pakistan refusal to act against 26/11 perpetrators shows its ‘insincere approach’: Ex-Pentagon official||Pakistan’s refusal to act against perpetrators of 26/11 Mumbai terror attack, which claimed the lives of over 160 people including six Americans is a testimony to the lack of seriousness from Islamabad in combating terrorism emanating from its soil, said former Pentagon official Michael Rubin. In an opinion piece in Washington Examiner, Rubin, a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, writes citizens of dozens of nations have fallen victim to Pakistan-sponsored terror and the Mumbai attacks alone claimed victims from not only the US and India but also from Australia, Canada, France, Italy, the United Kingdom, Japan, Israel, the Netherlands, Jordan, Malaysia, Mexico, Singapore and Mauritius.While only six Americans died in Mumbai, the number of American victims of Pakistani terror support in orders of magnitude is higher when Pakistan’s sponsorship of the Taliban is considered.If Pakistan is serious about counterterrorism, it will recognise that there are no factors that justify the Mumbai attacks, asserts Rubin. The Mumbai terror attacks lasted for four days from November 26, 2008, killing 166 people and injuring over 300. In these gruesome attacks, nine terrorists were killed and the lone survivor, Ajmal Amir Kasab, was caught and was sentenced to death at Yerwada Central Jail in Pune in 2012. On November 11, 2012, Kasab was hanged in Yerawada Jail in Pune.Pakistani authorities continue to deny culpability. A trial underway in a Pakistani anti-terrorism court against seven suspects has made little headway in more than a decade, as Pakistani officials serially question the sufficiency and legitimacy of evidence against them.“What happened in India’s largest city and commercial capital was a crime against humanity, which no military or diplomatic dispute excuses. The refusal to arrest and try Lashkar-e-Taiba co-founder Hafiz Muhammad Saeed and the group’s leader, Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi, simply highlights the reality that the late Osama bin Laden’s presence in Pakistan was no outlier but was rather evidence of a pattern in which Pakistani authorities protect master terrorists. Pakistan’s insincere approach to countering terror financing, as documented by the Financial Action Task Force, simply reinforces the point,” he writes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-refusal-to-act-against-26-11-perpetrators-shows-its-insincere-approach-ex-pentagon-official/story-pEwbusuOjri7OoZprAsW3J.html
24-11-2020||India||Biocon chief hopes for DCGI nod for Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine in emergency cases||Biocon Executive Chairperson Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw on Tuesday said hopefully drugs regulator DCGI will give Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) for the Oxford-AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine as soon as it gets approval from the UK’s Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency.“100 Million Doses By January,” Says Adar Poonawalla On Oxford Vaccine - hopefully DCGI will give EUA immediately after MHRA in December to start vaccination in India which is the need of the hour,” Mazumdar-Shaw said in a tweet.On Monday, Poonawalla had said that by January, Serum Institute will have 100 million doses. It already has 40 million doses.He had also expressed happiness at pharma major AstraZeneca’s announcement that its Covid-19 vaccine candidate has been found to be 70 per cent effective on average.Serum is conducting clinical trials of Oxford University-AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine candidate in India.On Monday, AstraZeneca had said one dosing regimen showed vaccine efficacy of 90 per cent when the vaccine was given as a half-dose followed by a full dose at least one month apart, while another dosing regimen showed 62 per cent efficacy when given as two full doses at least one month apart.“The combined analysis from both dosing regimens resulted in an average efficacy of 70 per cent,” it had said.AstraZeneca also said it is making rapid progress in manufacturing with a capacity of up to 3 billion doses of the vaccine in 2021 on a rolling basis, pending regulatory approval. “The vaccine can be stored, transported and handled at normal refrigerated conditions for at least six months and administered within existing healthcare settings,” it added.India saw 37,975 new coronavirus infections in a day taking the country’s Covid-19 caseload to 91.77 lakh, while recoveries crossed 86 lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. PTI AKT ANU ANU||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/biocon-chief-hopes-for-dcgi-nod-for-oxford-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine-in-emergency-cases/story-BXScx5USolcqJarrxHAJYO.html
24-11-2020||India||Farm Bills protests: Punjab farmers, Centre to meet for second round of talks on Dec 3||The Centre on Tuesday said it has invited farmer unions from Punjab for the second round of ministerial talks on December 3 to resolve differences over the new agriculture laws.The meeting comes after farmer leaders laid a condition for another central ministerial meeting while calling off their ‘rail roko’ agitation in Punjab on Monday and lifted the nearly two-month-long blockade, allowing resumption of only goods trains.Speaking to PTI, Food Secretary Sudhanshu Pandey said, “We have called the representatives of over 30 farmer organisations for the second round of discussion on December 3 at Vigyan Bhawan at 11 am”.The secretary has sent the invitation to the farmer bodies on behalf of Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar. Food Minister Piyush Goyal is also expected to be present in the meeting.Officials from food and agriculture departments of the Punjab government have also been invited for the talks.The first round of talks was held on November 13, but it remained inconclusive, with both sides sticking to their ground.Punjab farmers have been demanding the repeal of the new farm laws and replace them with another set of laws framed after wider consultation with stakeholders. They also demanded a guarantee on the MSP front, as they claimed that these new laws may lead to the end of minimum support prices (MSP) procurement, which the Centre has denied.When asked about their demand on MSP, the secretary said, “Earlier laws too did not have any mention of MSP. Even the new agri-laws do not mention it. MSP is mentioned only in the National Food Security Act (NFSA) which has not been changed. Till Public Distribution System (PDS) is there, MSP will continue”.The Prime Minister has also stated this and even the Union Agriculture Minister has said in Parliament that MSP will continue, he added.“We have explained in detail to farmer unions about this issue. Hopefully, we will resolve the issue with them at the December 3 meeting,” he noted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-bills-protests-punjab-farmers-centre-to-meet-for-second-round-of-talks-on-dec-3/story-128A93Rd2hNsTEZDFxb2PN.html
24-11-2020||India||Cyclone Nivar: Puducherry imposes prohibitory orders, allows shops selling essential goods to open||Authorities in Puducherry clamped prohibitory orders and said only milk shops, petrol stations and pharmacies will be allowed to operate as Cyclone Nivar is expected to cross the coasts of Tamil Nadu and the Union territory and make landfall on Wednesday evening as a severe cyclonic storm. Puducherry’s district magistrate Purva Garg ordered the imposition of Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code from 9pm on Tuesday till 6am on Thursday in the entire Puducherry region in wake of Cyclone Nivar.Garg said in the order that “with a view to prevent danger to human lite and safety do hereby prohibit the presence or movement of one or more persons in public places in the entire Puducherry region and closure of all shops and establishments from 24-11-2020 9.00 PM to 26-11-2020 6.00 AM, subject to further revision”. “This order shall not apply to agencies/officials of the Government involved in the enforcement of law and order and Cyclone duty. Maintenance of essential services like Milk Booth, Fuel Bunk, Pharmacies and Health services are allowed to continue,” her order said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday he spoke to the chief ministers of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry and assured all possible support from Centre in view of the severe cyclonic storm Nivar. “Spoke to Tamil Nadu CM Edappadi K Palaniswami and Puducherry CM V.Narayanasamy regarding the situation in the wake of #CycloneNivar. Assured all possible support from the Centre. I pray for the safety and well-being of those living in the affected areas,” PM Modi tweeted.Also read | Heavy rains, gale force winds: Nivar to cross Tamil Nadu coast tomorrowPuducherry chief minister V Narayanasamy also said on Tuesday he had apprised the Prime Minister of all precautionary steps taken by his government to face the cyclone. Narayanasamy said all business establishments have been asked to close later in the evening and remove the high-rise advertisement boards. Government employees have been instructed not to avail leave and be at their offices to respond to call for help and emergency control rooms have been set up in all departments.A team of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) from Arkonam in neighbouring Tamil Nadu arrived in Puducherry on Tuesday while another team was deployed in Karaikal to take up rescue works, PTI reported. All schools asked to remain open for public examinations were directed to remain closed on Tuesday and Wednesday because of the squally weather.Also read | Cyclone Nivar heads towards south coast: List of major cyclones in India since 2019Puducherry and its suburbs experienced drizzle since Monday night and there was a respite from rain on Tuesday morning. The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Tuesday that the deep depression over southwest Bay of Bengal has strengthened into a cyclonic storm Nivar and it hovered 450km southeast of Chennai.Cyclone Nivar is expected to cross the coasts of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry and make landfall between Mamallapuram and Karaikal on Thursday evening as a severe cyclonic storm with a wind speed of 100-110kmph gusting to 120kmph.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-nivar-puducherry-imposes-prohibitory-orders-allows-shops-selling-essential-goods-to-open/story-fPa0ovJTxruHkHD13sTIpJ.html
24-11-2020||India||UP excise dept’s authenticity drive reveals liquor mafia’s wide network||As many as 888 cases have been registered against the liquor mafia in Uttar Pradesh following a joint exercise by the excise department and the police over the last couple of days since six people died after drinking of spurious alcohol in Prayagraj last Friday. A total of 18, 28,640 litres of illegal liquor was seized from people running liquor vends, excise department officials said. A list of such licensees and liquor vends with a dubious track record was also being maintained. Field level officers in the excise department are now busy collecting samples from authorised liquor vends in a bid to check their authenticity. They say they have an uphill task. “With a spurt in deaths due to consumption of spurious liquor, the government has given the excise department the task to ensure that the liquor mafia’s network ends. As we go collecting samples from liquor vends to check authenticity, the enormity of the exercise stares us in the face. It’s a mammoth task,” an excise inspector said. The excise inspector cited the recent case in Banthara locality of Lucknow, where at least three people died after drinking country-made liquor from an authorised vend. Liquor bottles in large numbers were seized from a fair price shop owner in the locality and he has now been arrested. Subsequent investigations revealed that the liquor stock of the country made liquor vend in Banthara hadn’t been checked from November 9 to 13. The role of a Banthara fair price shop owner from whose shops liquor bottles were seized is also under scrutiny. The recent verification drive, which is in its early stages, has already revealed the extent to which the liquor mafia’s network has spread. During an inspection of a country liquor shop in Etah district’s Sikari area, 25 litres of illicit spirit, 83 fake pouches, a roll of fake QR codes (QR code is a type of matrix barcode which is put on liquor bottles to ascertain authenticity), and caramel was recovered on Sunday. Excise officials said a litre of rectified spirit could be used to make up to eight litres of liquor. “By that logic itself, 200 litres of liquor could have been made from the spirit recovered from the Etah liquor vend. For all you know, the seizure could well be the tip of the iceberg. The empty fake pouches and fake barcodes reveal the deadly game that the unscrupulous are playing from authorised liquor vends,” said an excise official posted in eastern UP. Empty liquor pouches were also recovered from an authorised vend at Kalal Khedia in Agra. In Pratapgarh, 88.20 litres of illegal country liquor and 1,310 litres of illegal foreign liquor smuggled into the state from Haryana was recovered on Monday. “FIRs have been registered against licensees of liquor vends. Their licences have been revoked and they would be tried under the Gangsters Act,” said additional chief secretary, excise, Sanjay R Bhoosreddy. “We are getting liquor samples from authorised vends tested from our laboratories in Meerut, Lucknow, Gorakhpur and Prayagraj. So far, 14,892 samples have been collected from 12,957 shops that have been inspected till now,” Bhoosreddy said. However, in the past, such campaigns after the initial buzz had ended tamely. Sample this: In December 2017, a truck carrying 100 drums of rectified spirit (55 litres each) was intercepted by the special task force (STF) in Kanpur’s Sachendi and two persons, Sahil and Imran, of Gunnaur, Haryana, were arrested. They named a man Pradhan alias Dinesh Mishra to whom they had to deliver the spirit. The Pradhan gang allegedly has expertise in filling liquor in plastic pouches and bottles on which fake labels and holograms were used. STF sources claimed that it had emerged that the Pradhan gang was responsible for supply of liquor to shops in Sachendi and other areas on the outskirts of Kanpur. The STF lodged a case with the Sachendi police. “We were shocked to learn that Pradhan’s name was subsequently dropped from the charge sheet. He was given a clean chit,” said STF sources. In February, the STF arrested Rajesh Jaiswal and Vipin alias Sonu of Kanpur Dehat and recovered ‘Madhuri’ (a country liquor brand) labels, bottle caps and holograms worth Rs 20 lakh. This material was to be used to sell liquor worth Rs 10 crore from shops, according to the FIR. However, three key players of the gang were allegedly let off. Like in the case of Pradhan, the names of key accused were dropped, said sources. “The business of locally brewed and packaged liquor from government approved shops has been going on unchecked for the last four years. The local brew was being supplied at half the cost of the legal one and good profits to all the stake-holders were the driving force,” said STF sources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-excise-dept-s-authenticity-drive-reveals-liquor-mafia-s-wide-network/story-5wlOSd8rn1TA7YSwGfzlNL.html
24-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik raided by Enforcement Directorate and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik raided by Enforcement Directorate, his party says it’s politicsThe Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday morning carried out searches at 10 locations including premises linked to Thane-based Shiv Sena legislator Pratap Sarnaik. The raids are being conducted at multiple places in Mumbai and Thane in connection with a money laundering case. Read moreCyclone Nivar to make landfall on Wednesday evening, Tamil Nadu braces for stormThe deep depression over southwest Bay of Bengal has strengthened into a cyclonic storm, Nivar, and it hovered 450 km southeast of Chennai, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said Tuesday. Read more ‘They are grown-ups’: Allahabad HC cancels case against Muslim man by wife’s parentsAllahabad High Court has thrown away a case filed against a Muslim man by the parents of his wife, who converted from Hinduism to Islam last year to marry him. The right to choose a partner irrespective of caste, creed or religion is intrinsic to the constitutional right to life and personal liberty, the high court held. Read more Maruti expands its subscribe-a-new-car program to four more citiesMaruti Suzuki is backing its subscription plans to find more and more takers and on Tuesday, announced it is now available in four more cities in the country. The new cities include Mumbai, Chennai, Ahmedabad and Gandhinagar. Read more ‘Arre yaar!’: Kid’s adorable tantrums during haircut is winning tweeple. WatchA trip to the barber was not quite the pleasant visit for many in childhood. After some brief struggle, cajoling and promises of ice cream and chocolates, one’s parents had to take them for the dreaded action. If you’re someone who had a flashback after reading these lines, then this video shared on Twitter will definitely leave you with a smile on your face. Watch hereMasked Ananya Panday returns from Dubai decked in limited edition Louis Vuitton worth over Rs 4 lakh, Rs 3k Playboy joggers. SEE PICSAnanya Panday decided to treat herself to a little holiday after the release of her latest Khaali Peeli alongside Ishaan Khatter (on an OTT platform). Read moreSonakshi Sinha soaks in the Maldives sun in a lacy swimsuit-lavender floppy hatAs soon as Sonakshi Sinha landed in the island country, the Dabangg star shared oh-so-stunning pictures from the Maldives beach in a sultry swimsuit and a personalized hat which instantly amped up our vacay goals. Read more Sasural Simar Ka actor Ashiesh Roy dies at 55 from kidney ailmentActor Ashiesh Roy has died at the age of 55 at his home in Mumbai. The actor, who had appeared in TV shows and films in his long career, was suffering from a kidney ailment for a long time. Read moreIndia vs Australia: ‘If India don’t succeed in ODIs, T20Is, they will get smoked in Tests 4-0,’ says Michael ClarkeIndia are set to face one of their biggest tests this year when they take on Australia. The series is set to kick off with the first ODI taking place in Sydney this Friday. Fans are keeping their eyes on who will be the playing combination in the first ODI - and also wondering what role the conditions in Sydney and bio-bubble have on the game. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-shiv-sena-mla-pratap-sarnaik-raided-by-enforcement-directorate-and-all-the-latest-news/story-JYmFE9idlFIaQTpVJogxxL.html
24-11-2020||India||At PM Modi’s review meet on Covid-19, Amit Shah sets a 3-point target for CMs||Union home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday asked chief ministers of all the states and Union Territories witnessing a surge in the cases of the coronavirus disease to ensure Covid-19 mortality rate comes down below 1% and the and the new cases must not exceed 5% of the existing level. Shah made the request at a virtual review meeting held by Prime Minister Narendra Modi with the chief ministers of these states and Union territories.The most important step Shah told the CMs to take was to make the containment zones dynamic. Officials must visit the red zones every week and based on data collected, change the status of a particular area, he said. At present, the data from containment zones is collected fortnightly. The Union home minister asked the chief ministers to do everything in their power to ensure all the three targets are achieved at the earliest.Click here for live updates on Covid-19 The meeting comes at a time when India’s Covid-19 tally has soared past 9.17 million. On Monday, the Supreme Court gave two days’ time to states and the central governments to disclose their preparedness to combat the spike in infections and the expected rise in cases in the coming months. A three-judge bench headed by justice Ashok Bhushan was concerned particularly about the prevailing situation in Delhi, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Assam.At the Covid-19 review meeting, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal told the Prime Minister that pollution caused by stubble burning in the neighbouring states played a key role in the high severity of the third wave of Covid-19 in the national capital. Delhi saw a peak of 8,600 Covid-19 cases on November 10 in the third peak following which the cases and positivity rate are steadily decreasing, he informed.Kejriwal sought Modi’s intervention to get rid of the pollution in the city due to stubble burning. He also sought the reservation of additional 1,000 ICU beds in the central government-run hospitals in Delhi for coronavirus patients till the third wave of the infection lasts in the Capital.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageSpeaking about the situation in West Bengal, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said that people in the state have become ignorant of the viral infection and have stopped following protocols like wearing masks. She added that the people here think Covid-19 pandemic is over. Only in the North 24 Parganas district people wear masks while in Bankura nobody can be seen exercising precautions.During the meeting, Banerjee also asked for states’ Goods and Services Tax (GST) dues to be cleared by the Centre. She was the only one to have raised the issue.Other leaders who attended the meeting include health minister Harsh Vardhan, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani.The first round of the meeting has ended. During the second round, PM Modi and the chief ministers will discuss vaccination strategy following which the Prime Minister is likely to issue a concluding statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-pm-modi-s-review-meet-on-covid-19-amit-shah-sets-three-point-target-for-cms/story-teO6BeJJv3QasJI03Gz3GI.html
24-11-2020||India||Kalyan medics to strike work tomorrow after Shiv Sena corporator allegedly abuses doctor||Medical associations in Kalyan comprising 1,463 doctors have called for a one-day strike on Wednesday to protest the alleged defamation of a doctor by Shiv Sena corporator Mahesh Gaikwad on social media. The associations have asked for a written and online apology for the same.The strike has been called by doctors of Indian Medical association (IMA), Kalyan Homeopathic Doctor foundation (KHDF), Kalyan east medical practitioners association and National Integrated medical association, Kalyan.“If our demands are not met we will call for an indefinite strike from November 28. The corporator has been defaming several doctors in the city who are working day and night as frontline warriors. Instead of solving the problems he is targeting the entire fraternity by defaming us, which will not be tolerated,” said Prashant Patil, president, IMA, Kalyan. Dr AShwin Kakkar of Vaishnavi Maternity Hospital was allegedly verbally abused and threatened after a patient’s relative complained that he was not allowed to wait in the premises of the hospital to avoid crowding. “The incident took place on Sunday when Gaikwad came with his associates and slammed and abused the doctor after a patient’s relative complained about not being allowed to wait in the hospital. There are certain rules every patient and their relatives has to follow. Gaikwad was not keen on solving the matter instead he was creating a scene,” added Patil. The decision to go on a day’s strike by the medical associations could affect the entire medical services in the city that is battling the Covid-19 pandemic as the doctors had been working in tandem with the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC).Mahesh Gaikwad did not respond to repeated calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kalyan-medics-to-strike-work-tomorrow-after-shiv-sena-corporator-allegedly-abuses-doctor/story-fPJhYRN7zkZi36yzraMMkJ.html
24-11-2020||India||Supreme Court rejects dismissed BSF jawan’s petition challenging PM Modi’s election from Varanasi||The Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed a petition filed by sacked Border Security Force (BSF) constable Tej Bahadur Yadav challenging the election of Prime Minister Narendra Modi from the Varanasi parliamentary seat in last year’s Lok Sabha elections. In delivering the verdict, a three-judge bench comprising chief justice SA Bobde and Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian dismissed Yadav’s challenge to the Allahabad High Court’s verdict in this regard. Yadav had been given a ticket by the Samajwadi Party (SP) to contest from the Varanasi constituency. However, the Returning Officer (RO) rejected his nomination on grounds that he did not produce certificate from the EC certifying that his dismissal was not on grounds of disloyalty or corruption. Yadav was sacked from the BSF in 2017 after a video went viral of him complaining about the quality of food served to jawans.His earlier petitions against rejection of his nomination papers have already been rejected.The Supreme Court had on November 18 reserved its verdict over Yadav’s plea challenging PM Modi’s election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-rejects-dismissed-bsf-jawan-s-petition-challenging-pm-modi-s-election-from-varanasi/story-xm9MjiizPAXzY3bolYeNHN.html
24-11-2020||India||Cyclone Nivar to make landfall on Wednesday evening, Tamil Nadu braces for storm||The deep depression over southwest Bay of Bengal has strengthened into a cyclonic storm, Nivar, and it hovered 450 km southeast of Chennai, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said Tuesday. Prime minister Narendra Modi has spoken to chief ministers of Tamil Nadu chief minister and Puducherry-- Edapaddi K Palaniswami and V Narayanaswamy, assuring them of assistance from the Centre. Cyclone Nivar is expected to cross the coasts of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry and make a landfall between Mamallapuram and Karaikal on November 25 evening as a severe cyclonic storm with a wind speed of 100-110 kmph gusting to 120 kmph.Tamil Nadu is applying the lessons learnt from the previous devastating cyclones, Gaja in 2018 and Vardah in 2016, to prepare for the heavy rains and wind that have been forecast from the day in Chennai and districts such as Cuddlaore, Pudukottai and Villupuram. National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been mobilised to coastal regions. Six teams are in Cuddalore -- one of the worst affected regions in the state during every monsoon and cyclone. Two NDRF teams are on standby in Chennai and one in Madurai. People in low-lying and flood-prone areas have been asked to move to safer places and district authorities are shifting them to relief camps with food and necessary medical aids. Chief minister Palaniswami has urged people to avoid going out for the next three days. Authorities have warned of damage to thatched roofs, kuchcha roads, water logging, suspension of electricity and uprooting of trees due to the severe cyclone. Civic workers in Chennai have been pressed into clearing waterlogged roads. The water level at Chembarambakkam lake, which swelled and caused the 2015 floods in Chennai, reached 82.62 feet out of 85.40 feet with an inflow of 220 cusecs. “People need not panic. The situation is under good control,” said Greater Chennai Corporation commissioner, G Prakash. The city has opened 80 relief camps and another 80 is on stand-by.Southern Railways cancelled a few train services and inter and intra bus-services, including those of private buses, have been suspended in seven districts. Fishing operations are completely suspended. Medical counselling for undergraduate courses scheduled on Tuesday in Chennai has been postponed to November 30. The previous cyclone to make a landfall in Tamil Nadu was Gaja (classified as a very severe cyclonic storm) during the north east monsoon in mid- November 2018. It claimed 46 lives and left a trail of destruction leaving hundreds of thousands of people homeless, primarily across ten districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-nivar-to-make-landfall-on-wednesday-evening-tamil-nadu-braces-for-storm/story-rLL1jjvAygjYeEeqAkt75H.html
24-11-2020||India||Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik raided by Enforcement Directorate, his party says it’s politics||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday morning carried out searches at 10 locations including premises linked to Thane-based Shiv Sena legislator Pratap Sarnaik. The raids are being conducted at multiple places in Mumbai and Thane in connection with a money laundering case.A senior Enforcement Directorate official said the searches were being carried out at locations in Mumbai and Thane linked to promoters of a private company and some politicians. The official declined to give out details of the case. Pratap Sarnaik, chairman of Vihang Group Of Companies that has invested in real estate development in Thane, represents Ovala-Majiwada in the state assembly. He is also the spokesperson of the party in Mira-Bhayander, a city in Thane district.ED officials said premises linked to Pratap Sarnaik’s sons, Purvesh and Vihang, have also been searched.Sarnaik’s party said the raids were an attempt to pressurise Shiv Sena legislators but it wouldn’t work.“If anybody thinks they can use central agencies and form a government they are mistaken. No matter how many notices or such raids are carried out, none of our legislators will be pressurized and bow down to you. This is mere politics. The Enforcement Directorate should not behave as a branch of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Today Pratap Sarnaik and his sons are not in Mumbai and this raid was carried out,” Shiv Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut on ED searches.Leader of opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, said he wasn’t aware of the details of the ED action but nobody should be scared of any such action if they have done no wrong. “The Enforcement Directorate does not initiate any action unless it has solid evidence,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-mla-pratap-sarnaik-raided-by-enforcement-directorate-his-party-says-it-s-politics/story-l0zU6hA9wp2y6c9ZiQGcyN.html
24-11-2020||India||NESCO jumbo centre in Goregaon to start post Covid-19 OPD||By the end of next week, the NESCO jumbo Covid entre at Goregaon, run by the Brihanmumbai Municpal Corporation (BMC) will start post-Covid Out Patient Department (OPD) for recovered patients who need attention for health complications, a top official said.Specialists from major hospitals run by the civic body will attend to the patients. “As the number of Covid-19 patients has now decreased, we can use the manpower strength to treat patients who are having complications after recovery,” said Dr Neelam Andrade, dean of Nair Dental Hospital and in-charge of the jumbo centre. “We already have specialists from KEM (King Edward Memorial) and Cooper Hospital (Dr R N Cooper Municipal General Hospital) who can attend patients on OPD basis.”As HT reported on Monday, several Covid-19 patients after recovery are developing long-term complications like breathlessness, fatigue, neurological disorder, lung fibrosis, heart diseases and numbness among others. This also leads to the additional economic burden on them as patients have to keep taking treatment for months. Additionally, the jumbo centre which provides treatment to mild and moderate Covid-19 infected patients is also planning to start a post-Covid-19 rehabilitation centre which will include lung-related exercises and physiotherapy. Patients will be provided treatment at free of cost.“I am in the process of procuring few equipment that would help in providing physiotherapy to patients that but it would take a week or so,” Andrade said.Health activists have welcomed the civic body’s move stating that such a centre will help in faster recovery and will be affordable to poor people. “Covid-19 is causing long-term health impacts on patients. But due to lack of rehabilitation programs, many poor people are opting out of it. Considering the growing cases of health complications, it is the need of the hour that the government focuses on post Covid-19 health infrastructure,” said Dr Abhijit More, health activist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nesco-jumbo-centre-in-goregaon-to-start-post-covid-19-opd/story-jvSIr6YUKr6ciXOPnBSaGK.html
24-11-2020||India||‘They are grown-ups’: Allahabad HC cancels case against Muslim man by wife’s parents||The Allahabad High Court has thrown out a case filed against a Muslim man by the parents of his wife, who converted from Hinduism to Islam last year to marry him. The right to choose a partner irrespective of caste, creed or religion is intrinsic to the constitutional right to life and personal liberty, the high court held, adding that two previous judgments that objected to religious conversion for the purpose of marriage didn’t lay down good law.The bench, comprising justice Pankaj Naqvi and justice Vivek Agarwal, was hearing a petition by Salamat Ansari and Priyanka Kharwar alias Alia to quash a police complaint against them by the woman’s father. The petitioners contended they were both majors and competent to choose their life partners. The court agreed with the petitioners, both residents of Kushinagar district.“We do not see Priyanka Kharwar and Salamat as Hindu and Muslim, rather as two grown-up individuals who out of their own free will and choice are living together peacefully and happily over a year,” the bench held. “An individual on attaining majority is statutorily conferred a right to choose a partner, which if denied would not only affect his/her human right but also his/her right to life and personal liberty, guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India,” observed the bench.The decision by the two-judge bench, delivered on November 11 but made public on Monday, may pose a legal problem for the Uttar Pradesh government, which is planning a law to regulate interfaith relationships on the basis of the two previous judgments that were both delivered by single-judge benches.The judges held that any interference in a personal relationship would constitute a “serious encroachment” on the right to freedom of choice. “We fail to understand that if the law permits two persons even of the same sex to live together peacefully then neither any individual nor a family nor even state can have an objection to the relationship of two major individuals who out of their own free will are living together,” the verdict said.The judgment also contradicted two previous judgments – one delivered in 2014 and the other in 2020 – that said that religious conversion only for the sake of marriage was not valid under law. “We hold the judgments in the Noor Jahan and Priyanshi (cases) as not laying good law. None of these judgments dealt with the issue of life and liberty of two matured individuals in choosing a partner or their right to freedom of choice as to with whom they would like to live,” the two-judge bench held.In the Noor Jahan case, the HC had dismissed a batch of writ petitions asking for protection of a married couple where the woman converted from Hinduism to Islam. In the Priyanshi case, a Muslim woman converted to marry a Hindu man, and the couple approached the court for police protection.Shortly after the high court passed the judgment in the second case in October, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced that his government was planning a law to regulate “love jihad”, a term used by right-wing Hindu activists to describe relationships between Hindu woman and Muslim men.These activists allege that Muslim men “lure” gullible women for conversion, though experts say adult men and women are free to convert for relationships, and the central government told Parliament in February that there was no definition of the term and no such cases were reported by agencies. Haryana, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka, all ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), are also considering similar laws.In the current case, the petitioners sought quashing of a first information report lodged on August 25, 2019, for alleged kidnapping, assault and other sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. The petitioners said they were living together as a couple peacefully for one year and the FIR – filed by the woman’s father – was aimed at ending the marriage. Counsel for the woman’s father opposed the petition and cited the 2014 and 2020 judgments, arguing that conversion only for the sake of marriage is prohibited and such marriages had no sanctity in law.The judges dismissed that argument. “To disregard the choice of a person who is of the age of majority would not only be antithetic to the freedom of choice of a grown-up individual but would also be a threat to the concept of unity in diversity.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/verdict-against-conversion-for-marriage-not-good-law/story-rx0GosBiiGfdaZClZHcXdM.html
24-11-2020||India||Number of new Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan falls marginally||The number of Covid19 cases in Rajasthan witnessed a slight dip on Monday with 3,232 new cases, 28 less than Sunday, the health department said. There were 18 casualties on Monday taking the death toll to 2,181. Rajasthan’s Covid-19 tally now stands at 2,47,168 out of which 24,116 are active cases. According to the health department’s data 2,20,871 people have been discharged after treatment till now. Of 33 districts, 10 recorded 100-plus cases with Jaipur topping with 599, four less than Sunday. It was followed by Jodhpur (435), Kota (275), Alwar (276), Ajmer (187), Udaipur (100), Bhilwara (160), Nagaur (134), Ganganagar (102), and Bikaner (182). The number of positive cases per day in Rajasthan has increased by nearly 86% in the last 22 days. A total of 3,260 cases was reported on November 22, which is 85.86% more than the cases reported on November 1 (1,754). With the spike in the cases, the doubling rate has also reduced to 59 days from around 72 days. Experts believe that the increased cases are mainly due to negligence by the people and the onset of winter. The minimum temperature has dipped below 10 degrees in 12 cities of Rajasthan, lowest at Mount Abu, zero degrees; Churu (5.8 degree); and Bhilwara (7.0 degrees). Superintendent of Rajasthan University of Health Sciences, biggest Covid19 government hospital, Dr Ajit Singh said the reason for the sudden spike in cases is a change in weather, a decrease in temperature, and community spread.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/number-of-new-covid-19-cases-in-rajasthan-falls-marginally/story-B41FkOtkVtqv5WxWlkmANI.html
24-11-2020||India||‘Today is the death anniversary of 3-day govt formed last year’: Sena’s dig at BJP||Reminding people of the dramatic oath-taking ceremony of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Devendra Fadnavis as the chief minister on November 23 last year, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Tuesday said the day marks the death anniversary of a “three-day government.” Raut’s comment was a jibe at the surprise early morning swearing-in by Fadnavis. The short-lived government was formed with the support of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Ajit Pawar, who also took oath as the deputy chief minister at Raj Bhavan in Mumbai early on November 23.Raut assured that their Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government will last for the entire term. “Our government will complete four years. Opposition leaders say such things in frustration as all their efforts have failed. They know very well that people of Maharashtra are with this govt,” the Sena leader was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Raut’s remark came a day after senior BJP leader and Union minister Raosaheb Danve said his party will form a government in Maharashtra in the next two to three months. Former Maharashtra chief minister and Leader of Opposition Fadnavis also told reporters on Monday that the next BJP government’s swearing-in ceremony in the state will be held at an appropriate hour instead of dawn. “We will form a government after the existing Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government falls. The swearing-in will be at the appropriate hour. It will not take place at dawn. But such incidents need not be remembered,” he said.Last year, the government formed by the BJP with Ajit Pawar’s backing lasted for only 80 hours with the NCP leader tendering his resignation as the deputy CM, paving the way for the Shiv Sena alliance with the NCP and the Congress to assume office. Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray took oath as the chief minister of the MVA government on November 28 and Pawar became his deputy.The BJP had won the maximum 105 seats in the Maharashtra assembly elections held last year, followed by the Shiv Sena which bagged 56 seats. The NCP had won 54 seats and the Congress 44.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/today-is-the-death-anniversary-of-3-day-govt-formed-last-year-sena-s-dig-at-bjp/story-npCqlJGZ8drUft6i0C1iwO.html
24-11-2020||India||Rain and snow to continue in Kashmir till Wednesday afternoon: MeT office||Rain and snowfall which continued in several parts of Kashmir on Tuesday have been forecast till Wednesday afternoon.Rain has been lashing Kashmir valley since Sunday night while the upper reaches of the mountains in north Kashmir experienced snowfall. Snow also fell on the Drass-Sonmarg axis and in some parts of the Pir Panjal range.The MeT said that there is light snowfall in some hilly areas of Jammu and Kashmir rain in some areas of Jammu region.“Weather is overcast in Leh and generally cloudy in Kargil and Drass. Intermittent light to moderate snow with isolated heavy fall (on higher reaches) are most likely to continue till the afternoon of November 25,” the MeT office said.It also said that there could be overall improvement in the weather from November 26 onwards.Tourist spots of Gulmarg, Pahalgam and Sonmarg received fresh snowfall. Gulmarg received around one foot of snow. The administration has already closed the Mughal Road after fresh snowfall was reported in Shopian region.The J&K Disaster Management department has warned of avalanches in the upper regions of Kashmir especially in northern parts and has asked people to remain vigilant.Gulmarg recorded minus 2.1 degrees Celsius on Monday night, while Srinagar recorded maximum 2.7 degree Celsius and minimum 0.6 degree Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-and-snow-to-continue-in-kashmir-till-wednesday-afternoon-met-office/story-nhCMnSGNkI5NseJunBC7bJ.html
24-11-2020||India||Cyclone Nivar: Assure all possible support to Tamil Nadu, Puducherry from Centre, tweets PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday he spoke to the chief ministers of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry and assured all possible support from Centre in view of the severe cyclonic storm Nivar. In a tweet, the Prime Minister said, “Spoke to Tamil Nadu CM Edappadi K Palaniswami and Puducherry CM V.Narayanasamy regarding the situation in the wake of #CycloneNivar. Assured all possible support from the Centre. I pray for the safety and well-being of those living in the affected areas.”On Tuesday, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said Nivar has intensified into a cyclonic storm and is very likely to cross Tamil Nadu and Puducherry during Wednesday evening. “Deep depression has intensified into a cyclonic storm -- NIVAR over south-west Bay of Bengal -- (Cyclone alert for Tamil Nadu and Puducherry coasts - Yellow Message),” the IMD tweeted. Also Read: Trains and buses cancelled, NDRF teams on alert: Here’s how Tamil Nadu is bracing for Cyclone NivarAccording to news agency ANI, rainfall in both states is expected to start from Tuesday and will go on till Thursday. Extremely heavy rainfall is expected at the North coastal and delta districts. Spoke to Tamil Nadu CM Shri @EPSTamilNadu and Puducherry CM Shri @VNarayanasami regarding the situation in the wake of Cyclone Nivar. Assured all possible support from the Centre. I pray for the safety and well-being of those living in the affected areas.Tamil Nadu chief minister K Palaniswami held a review meeting and urged his cabinet members and officials to remain fully alert and take requisite measures. The chief minister announced suspension of inter and intra-district bus services in Cuddalore, Nagapattinam, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Villupuram along with other districts from 1 PM this afternoon until further orders. Also Read: Severe cyclone Nivar to cross Tamil Nadu coast on WednesdayOn the other hand, Puducherry chief minister V Narayanasamy said that the administration has drawn a multi- pronged to face the cyclonic storm. The government is working to set up 80 relief centres, relief centres, control rooms in all the departments and rehabilitation of people in low-lying areas. All shops have been asked to close on Tuesday evening, Narayanasamy said adding fishermen have been advised to not venture into the sea. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-nivar-assure-all-possible-support-to-tamil-nadu-puducherry-from-centre-tweets-pm-modi/story-FTjKTnDit2UT0p0RBD4hNN.html
24-11-2020||India||Covid-19: Bihar to intensify drive against those not wearing masks||With other states reporting a spike in Covid-19 cases, Bihar is going to intensify its efforts to keep the disease in check.State chief secretary Deepak Kumar on Monday asked the district magistrates and the superintendents of police to undertake special drives in their respective districts to check for those not wearing masks in public places “We have asked our officers to intensify checking for masks in public places. We have also asked them to penalise the defaulters,” said Patna district magistrate Kumar Ravi. Occupants of private and commercial vehicles will be checked for masks and will also be subjected to random rapid antigen tests, said officials. Civil surgeons have been asked to hold testing camps in crowded areas, like vegetable markets, commercial areas and bus stand. Airport and railway station authorities have been asked to ensure compliance and also to create public awareness through loudspeakers. Also read | India’s active Covid case burden remains less than 5%: Govt dataThose in public transport, including auto rickshaws and buses, will also be checked and subjected to random Covid testing if they are found without masks. Till Monday, Bihar had reported 231,044 cases and 1,227 deaths, as per the health department’s bulletin. As many as 224,701 people have recovered so far, with 97.25% recovery rate. The number of active cases was 5,115. Bihar has done 13,743,532 tests with 107,624 tests per million so far. On Monday, 106,055 tests were conducted of which 11,992 were through real time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), 3,112 TrueNat and the remaining 90,951 through rapid antigen testing kits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-bihar-to-intensify-drive-against-those-not-wearing-masks/story-dgL86pjPUFh6qoQNgcEfIO.html
24-11-2020||India||India test-fires land-attack version of BrahMos missile: Report||India on Tuesday test-fired a land-attack version of the BrahMos supersonic cruise missile from the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, news agency ANI reported quoting sources. “The target of the missile was on another island there. More details awaited,” reported ANI. “The supersonic cruise missile was testfired at 10 AM today and it successfully hit its target. The test was conducted by the Indian Army which has many regiments of the DRDO-developed Missile system. The strike range of BrahMos missile has now been enhanced to over 400 km,” it added quoting sources. The supersonic cruise missile was testfired at 10 AM today & it successfully hit its target. The test was conducted by the Indian Army which has many regiments of the DRDO-developed Missile system. The strike range of BrahMos missile has now been enhanced to over 400 km: Sources https://t.co/dXlgqi9O2IThis development comes amid reports India will carry out “multiple live tests” of the supersonic missile this week amid ongoing tensions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China and, in recent days, the Line of Control (LoC) with Pakistan. As of last month, the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) had test-fired at least 10 missiles in just 35 days. One of those was BrahMos itself, which was test-fired from INS Chennai on October 18.Also Read | BrahMos missile test-fired from destroyer INS Chennai in Arabian SeaThe BrahMos is a medium-range supersonic cruise missile which can be launched from submarines, ships, aircraft or land. It is the world’s fastest supersonic cruise missile, as well as the fastest anti-ship cruise missile in operation. BrahMos-II, a hypersonic version of the missile, is also currently under development.BrahMos Aerospace is a joint venture between DRDO and Russia’s NPO Mashinostroyeniya and was established on February 12, 1998. Its name is a combination of India’s Brahmaputra and Russia’s Moskva rivers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-test-fires-land-attack-version-of-brahmos-missile-near-andaman-and-nicobar-islands/story-jjpXmMYJeCM60DJ4L6V81N.html
24-11-2020||India||Citizens suggest ways to implement ‘Swayampoorna Goa’ scheme||People of Goa have made various suggestions, including repair of sluice gates of a river and face-lift of a Portuguese-era fort, as part of implementation of the state government’s ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Swayampoorna Goa’ programme, an official has said.The government has been taking suggestions from people to implement the programme, which was announced by Chief Minister Pramod Sawant last month to increase economic activities and make every village in the state self-reliant by “harnessing resources available within the area”.Under the ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat Swayampoorna Goa’ initiative, benefits of all the state and central government schemes will be brought to the doorsteps of people, the chief minister had said.A senior government official, who is in-charge of the initiative, on Monday said, “During our recent visit to Aldona village in North Goa district, locals were enthusiastic about agriculture, fisheries and rural development schemes.” The economy of the Aldona village is predominantly based on agriculture and locals demanded that sluice gates of a river there be repaired immediately so as to prevent inundation of their fields, he said.Citizens also demanded repair of the historic Corjuem fort, which is in a dilapidated condition, to make it a tourist attraction, the official said.The fort, built in 1705 by Portuguese rulers, is located four km away from the Aldona village.“Various suggestions have come up during interaction with local representatives and people in each village. All the inputs are being combined as part of a report that would recommend a way ahead to make Goa self-sustainable,” the official said.He also said the government has put up stalls at Xeldem village in South Goa district to provide a detailed information to people about welfare schemes of various state departments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/citizens-suggest-ways-to-implement-swayampoorna-goa-scheme/story-BK3SdZAB7TQ0A2g8hfz7dN.html
24-11-2020||India||India’s new Covid-19 cases drop marginally; 37,975 new infections recorded in last 24 hours||Daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) registered a marginal fall on Tuesday, with 37,975 new infections being recorded in the last 24 hours, as against 44,059 in the previous spike, Union health ministry’s data showed. With this, the country’s overall caseload, the second-highest in the world after that of the United States, went up to 9,177,840 from 9,139,865 on Monday. The latest spike in Covid-19 cases is 13.8% lower than the previous rise.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIndia’s total recovered cases from Covid-19 reached 8,604,955 as 42,314 patients recovered in the last 24 hours. Its death toll reached 134,218 with 480 fresh fatalities between Monday and Tuesday morning. Active cases of Covid-19, meanwhile, continue to stay below the 450,000-mark and are currently at 438,667. Recovered cases, active cases and deaths contribute 93.76%, 4.78% and 1.46% of the country’s overall tally of coronavirus disease cases.Also Read | India records 44,059 new infections in last 24 hours, 2.5% drop from yesterdayThese latest numbers come on a day Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to chair a virtual meet with representatives of eight states and Union territories (UTs) over the surge in Covid-19 cases in these regions. The Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Kerala, West Bengal, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh, as well as that in the Union territory of Delhi, will be discussed during the meeting. The Prime Minister is also expected to discuss the distribution plan of a potential Covid-19 vaccine.Also Read | PM Modi may hold Covid-19 review meet with CMs todayDelhi, in particular, has been witnessing a massive surge in its Covid-19 cases in what has been described by many as the “third wave” of the pandemic in the national capital. A series of measures have been announced to contain the pandemic here, including a fine of Rs 2,000, instead of the earlier Rs 500 on those not wearing masks.The Delhi government has also revised the previous limit of 200 guests at wedding ceremonies to just 50. However, for now, the government has ruled out a lockdown in the capital city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-new-covid-19-cases-drop-marginally-37-975-new-infections-recorded-in-last-24-hours/story-byXVm17RjiyPHODgur6QcL.html
24-11-2020||India||Congress’s Goa unit moves SC against its registry for not listing plea against Speaker||The president of the Congress unit in Goa has moved the Supreme Court against the court’s Registry for failing to list the petition seeking directions to the Goa assembly Speaker to expeditiously hear the disqualification pleas the party has filed against its 10 former MLAs who defected to the BJP. The plea, which was last heard on August 8, with a direction from the Chief Justice of India that it be listed after two weeks, is yet to make it to the final board despite the party having moved 13 requests seeking urgent listing and 18 times tentative dates to be allotted for the hearing of the case. “The petition ought to have been listed on or around 26.08.2020. However, the matter has not been listed ever since 11.08.2020 till date in spite of the aforementioned order dated 11.08.2020. As of today, over three months have elapsed since the matter was last listed before this Hon’ble Court for hearing in spite of its explicit directions to put the same up after two weeks,” State Congress president Girish Chodankar said in his fresh petition on November 20 invoking the Supreme Court’s original direction. “This Hon’ble Court while granting an adjournment on the last occasion explicitly passed the aforestated two weeks direction as it well appreciated the urgency inherent in matters which are in the nature of the captioned matter and is conscious of the fact that if not expeditiously disposed, then such matter will be rendered completely infructuous,” Chodankar said. According to Chodankar, the party has continuously followed up with the Registrar of the listing branch no less than dozen times to check on the listing status and that the petition was allotted a tentative date on 17 occasions and despite its urgency, was not being listed. The party fears that its petition may meet the same fate as that of a petition relating to the Madhya Pradesh Assembly Speaker who allegedly violated a three-month deadline in deciding the disqualification of 22 MLAs, who had ‘defected’ from the Congress to the BJP which was rendered infructuous. “The present matter may suffer the same fate if it is not listed urgently,” Chodankar said. The Registry was not available for commentThe Congress leader had approached the Supreme Court seeking a direction to the Goa assembly Speaker to decide the disqualification petition filed against the 10 MLAs within a period of one month, as the same has been pending since August 8, 2019 — over 15 months (13 months if one excludes the duration of the lockdown in the State of Goa actuated by the Covid–19 pandemic) — and to restrain the MLAs who they say have ex-facie incurred disqualification under the Tenth Schedule to the Constitution of India from functioning and acting as Ministers and Members of the Legislative Assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-s-goa-unit-moves-sc-against-its-registry-for-not-listing-plea-against-speaker/story-V6J981CwHTgKDPC4GnralO.html
24-11-2020||India||Chhattisgarh: Man arrested for raping minor girl in moving car||The Chhattisgarh police have arrested a 21-year-old man for allegedly raping a 14-year-old girl in a moving car along with three others in Raipur last week.“We have arrested the main accused Himanshu Gupta and raids to arrest the other two accused are going on,” said police superintendent Ajay Yadav.Yadav said they immediately registered a case and launched a hunt for the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-man-arrested-for-raping-minor-girl-in-moving-car/story-bT9MKeHYgX4j44QytjyRQK.html
24-11-2020||India||Trains and buses cancelled, NDRF teams on alert: Here’s how Tamil Nadu is bracing for Cyclone Nivar||Authorities in Tamil Nadu have suspended inter and intra-district bus services in seven of the state’s districts from Tuesday and partially and fully cancelled trains in some districts as severe cyclonic storm Nivar is likely to cross its coast between Karaikal and Mamallapuram on Wednesday. The Tamil Nadu government on Monday reviewed the situation and directed district administrations to be on guard as the depression over the Bay of Bengal is likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm by Tuesday and cross the coast as a severe cyclonic storm a day after.Tamil Nadu chief minister K Palaniswami, during a review meeting, asked his cabinet colleagues and officials to remain fully alert and take appropriate precautionary measures ahead of Cyclone Nivar. A number of directions were issued during the review meeting asking officials of various departments to be on standby with the required equipment, earthmovers, trucks and other machinery from Monday onwards in Pudukottai, Cuddalore, Nagapattinam, Tanjavur, Tiruvarur, Villupuram and Chengalpattu districts.Also read | Heavy rains, gale force winds: Nivar to cross Tamil Nadu coast tomorrowOfficials were also directed to ensure evacuation of people in vulnerable areas, facilities, including the supply of food in relief camps, safeguarding boats and nets of fishermen, taking up fogging operations, monitoring water levels in big lakes and provision of mobile communication units. Six teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams should be stationed in Cuddalore and two in Chennai with equipment.Suspension of inter and intra-district bus services were announced in Cuddalore, Nagapattinam, Tanjavur, Tiruvarur, Villupuram, Chengalpattu and Pudukottai districts from 1pm on Tuesday till further orders, even as the chief minister appealed people to avoid travelling by their own vehicles except for essential requirements. People should stock themselves with torch lights, candles and matchboxes and also avoid venturing out during gusty winds, Palaniswami added.Also read | Cyclone Nivar heads towards south coast: List of major cyclones in India since 2019Tamil Nadu’s revenue minister RB Udayakumar and electricity minister P Thangamani expressed the preparedness of their ministries ahead of Cyclone Nivar. Udayakumar told reporters that all arrangements are in place to face the cyclone and special attention will be given to following social distancing norms in the relief shelters owing to the coronavirus pandemic. He added that those living in low lying areas should immediately shift to relief camps. Thangamani said that as a precaution power supply will be cut off when the storm crosses the coast on Wednesday.The weather bureau has said that the depression over southwest and adjoining the southeast Bay of Bengal has moved west-north westwards and lay centred about 520km east southeast of Puducherry and 560km southeast of Chennai. M Mohapatra, India Meteorological Department’s (IMD’s) director general, said on Monday that Nivar is very likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm during the next 24 hours. The depression is very likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm during next 24 hours, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said in a bulletin on Monday.“It is very likely to move north westwards and cross Tamil Nadu and Puducherry coasts between Karaikal and Mamallapuram around November 25 afternoon as a severe cyclonic storm with a wind speed of 100-110 kmph gusting to 120 kmph,” it said.Widespread rainfall and thunderstorm were “very likely” over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal from Tuesday will Thursday, IMD has warned. Isolated extremely heavy rainfall was very likely over Pudukottai, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Karaikal, Nagapattinam, Cuddalore, Ariyalur and Perambalur, Kallakurichi, Puducherry, Villupuram, Tiruvannamalai, Chengalpattu between Wednesday and Thursday. A high alert has been sounded in Nagapattinam and fishermen have been asked not to venture into the sea till Thursday.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trains-and-buses-cancelled-ndrf-teams-on-alert-here-s-how-tamil-nadu-is-bracing-for-cyclone-nivar/story-Vyfcbs6VworiiXYs0QOzdM.html
24-11-2020||India||UP selects 58K banking Sakhis through tech-driven process, CM gives nod for training||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Adityanath on Monday asked the rural development and panchayati raj departments to go ahead with the training of 58,000 women banking correspondent (BC) Sakhis before they begin their job.The direction came as the Uttar Pradesh government completed the first-of-its-kind technology driven process for selecting 58,000 women for as many posts of banking correspondent Sakhis. A total of 58,000 gram panchayats in the state will have a BC Sakhi each. “Once the BC Sakhis begin working, it will help a lot of the villagers in their banking related needs. BC Sakhis will function from their village’s panchayat bhavan,” the chief minister said.Additional chief secretary, rural development and panchayati raj department, Manoj Kumar Singh, informed the chief minister about the completion of the selection process.The Indian Institute of Banking and Finance (IIBF) will now train these BC Sakhis before they begin working. The state government had received 2.17 lakh applications for the induction of 58,000 BC Sakhis. The mobile app-based recruitment process was undertaken amid the Covid-19 pandemic in a statewide exercise. The department of rural development began the selection process in June. In the last three weeks, it interviewed the shortlisted applicants via their smart phones through the BC Sakhi mobile app.“BC Sakhis, using technology, will take banking to the doorsteps of families in their respective villages,” said additional chief secretary Manoj Kumar Singh.On May 21, amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the chief minister had announced a proposal for the induction of 58,000 BC Sakhis for each of UP’s gram panchayats. “BC Sakhis would become a one-stop solution for all banking services at the doorstep of the poor. The government envisages channelling government services (subsidies, entitlements, pensions etc) and direct benefit transfer (DBT) payouts through these BC Sakhis in the villages, besides taking up a range of banking operations and encouraging villagers for digital transactions,” said Singh.The UP government had launched a mobile app for the entire recruitment process — from application to interviews and final selection. A BC Sakhi would get Rs 4,000 per month as honorarium and a one-time Rs 75,000 easy instalment loan for tech hardware and installation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-selects-58k-banking-sakhis-through-tech-driven-process-cm-gives-nod-for-training/story-vrlSUXmP1QIPJMNThIA6nI.html
24-11-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh cancels Ganga Snan Mela, Deepdaan festival due to Covid-19||The Ganga Snan Mela and Deepdaan festival at Garhmukteshwar in Hapur district and at Hastinapur in Meerut district have been cancelled this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic, officials said. The Mela (fair) was scheduled to start in Garhmukteshwar on Wednesday and in Hastinapur on Friday.Additional superintendent of police, Hapur, Sarvesh Mishra said the state government decided to cancel the Ganga Snan Mela in Garhmukteshwar after examining a joint report of the district magistrate and the superintendent of police. “A ban on the arrival of devotees has been imposed between November 25 and 30 at the mela venue on the bank of the Ganga in compliance with the order,” said Mishra. He added that Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code had been imposed in the area. Every year, thousands of devotees from the nearby districts of western Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Haryana and Rajasthan arrive on the bank of the Ganga in Garhmukteshwar for ritual bathing in the river on the occasion of Kartik Purnima and offer Deepdaan for the salvation of their ancestors. As part of Deepdaan, earthen lamps are lit and floated down the river. Mishra said barriers had been put up on the borders of the district to prevent entry of people into the Mela Sthal. The state government allocates Rs 1 crore for the mela every year and the event continues for three to four days. The Meerut zila panchayat organises a similar mela on the bank of the Ganga at Makhdoompur in Hastinapur area every year. Here, too, thousands of devotees gather to bathe in the Ganga. Zila panchayat chairman Kulwinder Singh said that the mela had been cancelled in Hastinapur this year due to the pandemic. “All members were of the opinion that the mela should not be organised at the risk of peoples’ lives,” Singh said. Circle officer, Mawana area, Uday Pratap Singh said people were being sensitised to avoid visiting the riverbank in groups. He also said that barriers may be put up. Kulwinder Singh said that devotees may visit the riverbank individually, but they would not be allowed to move in groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-cancels-ganga-snan-mela-deepdaan-festival-due-to-covid-19/story-37pheIQyp0Wv4wbGWDGXNO.html
24-11-2020||India||HTLS 2020: At the helm of tackling key frontier challenges||For someone who entered the Uttar Pradesh legislative assembly as a 26-year-old young political worker in 1977, Rajnath Singh has come a long way. Few individuals in Indian political history can match his portfolio of achievements — chief minister of India’s largest state, a Union Cabinet minister for agriculture, the president of the Bharatiya Janata Party who was the organisation’s incharge during the spectacular 2014 win, the Union home minister, and now the Union defence minister. For the former physics lecturer and a man steeped in the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, this range of responsibilities has meant a grasp over issues ranging from the local to national. But as defence minister incharge of India’s armed forces and external security, Singh has faced among his toughest challenges this year with the standoff at the Line of Actual Control due to China’s aggression. He will speak on defining national security in the new era at the HT Leadership Summit this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htls-2020-at-the-helm-of-tackling-key-frontier-challenges/story-BEEk6BIfBdCoKuvXqa0SwJ.html
24-11-2020||India||DEA, FBI to assist India in tracking drug smuggling networks||The Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) and Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) of the United States—which brought down many Colombian and Mexican narcotics syndicates like Pablo Escobar’s, Cali Cartel, Sinaloa Cartel, Tijuana Cartel and others—will discuss sharing intelligence as well as a joint mechanism to track and disrupt the money laundering associated with international drug smuggling networks with India’s lead anti-drugs enforcement agency—Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB)—on Tuesday, people familiar with the development said. Virtual assets, typically associated with transnational criminal organisations and illicit drug activities, will particularly be of interest to both sides, people cited above said. The meeting is part of Indo-US Counter-Narcotics Working Group (CNWG), which was envisaged during President Donald Trump’s visit to New Delhi in February this year, will also dwell upon a bilateral counter-narcotics strategy and sharing of intelligence between both sides. Apart from DEA, the Department of State’s Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs (INL), Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP), Department of Justice (DOJ), FBI, Department of Homeland Security (DHS), Customs and Border Patrol (CBP) and US Postal Inspection Service (USPIS) are likely to attend the meet. From India, NCB, Directorate of Revenue and Intelligence (DRI), Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Enforcement Directorate (ED), ministry of health, department of revenue and ministry of external affairs (MEA) will be part of the virtual meet. People cited above said that Donald Trump and Prime Minister Narendra Modi had agreed to a new CNWG that would improve cooperation against illicit drugs and synthetic opioids. “The idea is to enhance the current relationship between relevant Indian and US drug and law enforcement agencies through more regular and structured dialogue and practical cooperation. There is a need to combat the global manufacturing, marketing, movement, and financing associated with illicit drugs and precursors,” said an officer who didn’t want to be named. The DEA will share with India current trends on synthetic opioids and their precursors’ production and trafficking pattern in South Asia as well as discuss avenues to increase information sharing to halt the production and trafficking of fentanyl, related analogues, and its precursors, along with other synthetic drugs. Fentanyl is an opioid used as pain medication and its increased smuggling has agencies worried. The two sides will also update each other on domestic laws and regulations and discuss establishing public-private partnerships for monitoring online drug and precursor trade as well as public-private liaisons between regulatory authorities and producers of precursors chemicals, said a second officer. The NCB has started a campaign to crack down on drug smuggling networks across the country and has identified several syndicates which operate from different parts of the country. In fact, the agency has estimated that heroin business in India is worth around Rs1,44,000 crore (approximately 19 billion US dollars) and there are around 20 lakh dependent users of this high drug in the country. The agency is also cracking down on the drug network in Bollywood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dea-fbi-to-assist-india-in-tracking-drug-smuggling-networks/story-dCIKk47FB7m40snDbBTmnK.html
24-11-2020||India||Kerala decides not to implement police act amendment after widespread protests||The Communist Party of India (Marxist)-led government of Kerala on Monday decided not to implement an ordinance it had promulgated to amend the Kerala Police Act, which mandated a jail term and fine for cyber abuse or offensive social media post, amid concern that it could be used to curb press freedom and free speech. In a brief statement days after the ordinance was issued, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said it was the government’s duty to respect the concern voiced by various quarters. Even allies including the CPI (M)’s junior partner, the Communist Party of India, have expressed reservations on the move.“We have been forced to bring such an amendment in view of growing cyber attacks against women and children. After concerns expressed by various quarters, we have decided not to go ahead with it. Further action will be taken after a detailed debate in the assembly,” said Vijayan, who conceded that even Left supporters had expressed serious reservations over the amendment. His office sent a directive to the state director general of police not to register cases under the new law. Legal experts said hat since it had already become law, the governor will have to promulgate another ordinance or order its withdrawal on the advice of the cabinet.“Unless it is withdrawn, it will remain a law. The governor will have to promulgate another order to nullify it,” said Supreme Court lawyer M R Abhilash. The government is likely to approach the governor in a day to two with a request to that effect, said a senior government official, who requested anonymity. The governor’s office didn’t react to the latest development. Political observers said it was a major setback to the CM and governor Arif Mohammad Khan, who signed the ordinance on Saturday. What drew flak is that the ordinance covers any means of offensive communication or criticism on any platform and not just social media. Any person who creates or sends out any information that is offensive or intended to offend or threaten another person is liable to face imprisonment of three years or a fine of ₹10,000 or both, according to the amendment. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury had also expressed reservations over the ordinance and made it clear that it wouldn’t be implemented in the form in which it had been drafted. Party insiders said the central leadership had sought major changes to the ordinance, but the state unit thought it proper not to implement it. “It is the part of democracy to take corrective steps in case of any mistakes. By deciding not to implement the amendment, the government has upheld high democratic tradition,” said the party’s state secretary A Vijayaraghavan. The opposition Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party announced plans to challenge the ordinance in the high court. “It was a clear violation of fundamental rights. With the new ordinance to muzzle criticism, the party has exposed its true colours. Despite major setbacks, the CM is saying it can be discussed in the assembly,” said opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala of the Congress, seeking complete withdrawal of the amendment. The government landed in trouble after a new clause, 118 (A), was inserted in the Kerala Police Act (amendment) ordinance issued on November 21. The government reiterated that it was meant to check online hate crime against women and children, but its contours raised serious doubts among critics and was seen as a ploy to silence dissent. It also empowered police officers to initiate a case on their own and arrest the accused. Police can slap criminal charges on citizens by interpreting any kind of communication through any medium as defamatory.The knee-jerk decision came in the wake of the government’s perceived failure to control the narrative on social media in the wake of many sensational cases, including a gold smuggling racket . After the arrest of former CPI (M) secretary’s son Bineesh Kodiyeri in connection with a narcotics seizure case, many articles have appeared online against senior leaders and ministers. “The government’s move to rein in criticism has backfired. The belated move to freeze the ordinance following the groundswell of resentment from across the social spectrum does not absolve the ruling party of its double standard on freedom of speech. Damage has already been done,” said political commentator and senior journalist John Mary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-decides-not-to-implement-police-act-amendment-after-widespread-protests/story-nHKXcdSiHQotHITaTn5h1I.html
24-11-2020||India||French firm, Kanpur’s MKU to make night vision devices for armed forces: UP minister||The Thales Group of France will manufacture night vision devices for India’s armed forces in collaboration with the Kanpur-based company MKU, Uttar Pradesh cabinet minister Sidharth Nath Singh said on Monday.The minister gave this information about the investment during the virtual inauguration of the Noida office of Thales. This investment will be part of the Defence Industrial Corridor project in Uttar Pradesh.Singh requested the French company to manufacture components of fighter jets Mirage and Rafale in Uttar Pradesh. The French company specialises in aerospace, space, defence, ground transportation, digital identity and security. It has operations in 68 countries. Singh is the minister for micro, small and medium enterprises, khadi and villages industries, sericulture industries, textile, export promotion, NRI and investment promotion. He is also the state government’s spokesman.The French company’s country head Emmanuel de Roquefeuil, French Ambassador to India Emanuel Lenain and Thales’s India, Africa and Central Asia representative Jean Marc Budin were also present during the event.“Virtually opened #Thales India HQs in Noida. 6 storey, 1100 employees with state of art green building. Was delighted to hear the views of Ambassador of France to India Mr Emmanuel Lenain in building relationship with #UP,” the minister tweeted.“Thales has proposed to make night vision devices for the armed forces in association with Kanpur-based defence company MKU and work is under progress over the proposal,” said Singh in a statement issued after the event. MKU is a manufacturer of electro-optic devices, personal and platform armour solutions for military, paramilitary, homeland security and special forces.On the occasion, the minister also pointed out that earlier, MNCs preferred to invest in South Indian states. But over the last three years they had shown interest in Uttar Pradesh, Singh said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced Defence Corridor project for Uttar Pradesh on February 21, 2018, at the investors’ summit in the state capital. The defence corridor has six nodes: Aligarh, Agra, Jhansi, Chitrakoot, Kanpur and Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/french-firm-kanpur-s-mku-to-make-night-vision-devices-for-armed-forces-up-minister/story-xAVZmxQIPQCn5Ix4idtsiN.html
24-11-2020||India||‘BJP intends to create hatred’: AIMIM’s Owaisi responds to Tejasvi Surya’s attack||A war of words has broken out between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) ahead of the elections to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC). AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi responded to BJP lawmaker Tejasvi Surya’s attack on him, remarking that the BJP’s intention “was to create hatred.”“If there are 30,000 Rohingyas in the electoral list, what is home minister Amit Shah doing? Is he sleeping? Isn’t this his job to see how 30,000-40,000 Rohingyas are listed? If the BJP is honest, it should show 1,000 such names by tomorrow,” news agency ANI quoted Owaisi as saying on Monday.“Their intention is to create hatred. This fight is between Hyderabad and Bhagyanagar. It is now your responsibility to decide who will win,” the Lok Sabha MP from Hyderabad was further quoted as saying at a rally. Their intention is to create hatred. This fight is between Hyderabad and Bhagyanagar. It is your responsibility now to decide who will win: AIMIM Chief Asaduddin Owaisi(23.11.2020) https://t.co/kkmh6O1Bk5Owaisi’s response came after Surya, also the BJP’s youth wing chief, attacked him earlier in the day, saying that every vote for the AIMIM chief means “a vote against India.” Tejasvi Surya also compared him with Pakistan’s founder Mohammed Ali Jinnah. “Owaisi speaks the language of rabid Islamism, separatism and extremism which Jinnah was also speaking. Owaisi and his brother haven’t allowed development in old Hyderabad. The only thing they have allowed is Rohingya Muslims,” Surya said.Watch | ‘Owaisi like Jinnah; voting for AIMIM a vote against India’: Tejasvi Surya“Every Indian should stand against divisive and communal politics of the Owaisi brothers. If you vote for him in Hyderabad, he becomes strong in Maharashtra, Karnataka, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh,” the BJP leader added.This attack by the BJP on the AIMIM comes even as the latter was accused of being a “vote cutter” in the recently-held Bihar assembly polls and helping the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) win in the eastern state.The GHMC polls are scheduled to take place on December 1. Counting of votes will take place on December 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-intends-to-create-hatred-aimim-s-owaisi-responds-to-tejasvi-surya-s-attack/story-byX7jU0vzq0rTcMernXAFO.html
24-11-2020||India||Tunnels, drones part of Pakistan’s strategy to keep Jammu sector active||The use of sophistically-dug tunnels from across the border and regular use of drones to deliver arms and ammunition at the international border is part of Pakistan’s new strategy to keep the Jammu sector active rather than just focusing on Kashmir, an assessment by the intelligence agencies and the Border Security Force (BSF) has suggested.Two long and sophisticated tunnels have been detected in Jammu’s Samba sector within three months. The first was discovered on August 29 and another 200-meter long and three feet wide tunnel on Sunday. The second was used by four terrorists who were killed in Nagrota near Jammu last week.The BSF has launched an anti-tunnel drive across the 3,300-km-long international border with Pakistan from Jammu to Gujarat to stop any infiltration. It is also sensitising border residents to be alert about any tunnel or suspicious movement in cases BSF patrols are unavailable, officials aware of the matter said.Also read | India briefs envoys on J&K attack bidMost of these tunnels, a counter-insurgency officer said, are dug under fields that are invisible to Indian troops due to tall elephant grass on the Pakistani side. They are dug during the night. Pakistan Rangers, this officer said, are supposed to cut the grass on their side according to the agreements between the two countries. But instead, Pakistan uses this grass to send terrorists and drugs’ smugglers to this side.“Similarly, as Pakistan is finding it difficult to send infiltrators and arms from the [border] fence or open stretches due to the alertness of BSF, it is moving to other methods like tunnels and drones,” he said.Another officer said Pakistan has increased its activity along the border in Jammu as it is unable to create any impact in Kashmir, where there is a heavy presence of army and central armed police forces. “...Pakistan wants to keep the Jammu border active to claim before the international community that this side of the border is also disputed as they call it working boundary,” said the second officer.The BSF has been exploring various technologies in collaboration with the Defence Research and Development Organisation, the Indian Institutes of Technology, Israel and the US to deal with the problem. But there has not been any success in finding any robust anti-tunnel technology yet.“It is difficult to detect a tunnel when it is being dug through physical inspection. Only technology can achieve that. But even technologically advanced countries like Israel and the US are facing the tunnelling problem in the Gaza Strip and along the US-Mexico border,” said a third counter-insurgency official.The larger problem is India’s slow pace of testing and acquiring any such technology.The third officer said any requirement for modern technology at the border is held up in files in the ministries with multiple queries raised by bureaucrats. “The CIBMS [Comprehensive Integrated Border Management System) announced by the government along the India-Pak border has been in trial stage for years in just 5 km stretch. If the trial will take four-five years, imagine how much time actual installation of such a project across 3000 km will take,” he said. “Bureaucracy is the only reason we fail to have the technology.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tunnels-drones-part-of-pakistan-s-strategy-to-keep-jammu-sector-active/story-9q6jpl7A7UVjGh0cM42zyJ.html
24-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Nirmala Sitharaman hints at more changes to push growth in coming Budget and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Budget to unveil more changes to push growth, says Nirmala SitharamanNotwithstanding the Covid-19 pandemic, the government has initiated a series of reforms to promote its Aatmnirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, and the momentum of the process will continue, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Monday, indicating that the coming budget will unveil more structural changes to boost the economy. Read moreBSF officer crawls 150 feet into tunnel used by Jaish terrorists, finds Pak imprintThe director general of the Border Security Force (BSF), Rakesh Asthana, on Monday ordered intensified patrolling of the international border with Pakistan in the Samba and Rajouri sectors of Jammu & Kashmir with the objective of unearthing more cross-border tunnels. Read moreHeavy rains, gale force winds: Nivar to cross Tamil Nadu coast tomorrowSevere cyclonic storm Nivar is likely to cross the Tamil Nadu coast between Karaikal and Mamallapuram of the southern state on Wednesday. Nivar, the first cyclonic storm to impact the Indian coast this season, is likely to bring extremely heavy rain to Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. Read moreAustralia opener David Warner reacts on India captain Virat Kohli’s paternity leaveAs astonishing as it may sound, Virat Kohli’s paternity leave has turned out to be one of the major topics of discussion ahead of the India vs Australia series. Australia opener David Warner was the latest to voice his opinion on the matter. Read moreCentre plans one EV charging station for every 69,000 petrol pumps: GadkariMinister for Road, Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari has said that the Centre plans to set up at least one EV charging station for every 69,000 petrol pumps to push people to use more electric vehicles in future. Read moreMan creates world record for farthest distance walked barefoot on LEGO bricksHave you ever stepped on a LEGO brick by accident? If so, then you know that no matter how cute and fun-to-play the colourful interlocking plastic bricks may seem, walking on one by mistake can cause real distress. Read moreWatch: Health worker rows 18 kms daily to serve kids, mothers in remote villagesAn Anganwadi worker rows 18 kms to remote villages to attend tribal kids and expecting mothers. Relu Vasave travels to interior villages every day from Maharashtra’s Nandurbar. Relu belongs to Nashik and grew up near Narmada, where she learned swimming. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-nirmala-sitharaman-hints-at-more-changes-to-push-growth-in-coming-budget-and-all-the-latest-news/story-nymKMhJFoSuLSZEiFhcN0J.html
24-11-2020||India||PM Modi likely to attend Dev Deepawali celebrations in Varanasi on Nov 30||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to attend Dev Deepawali celebrations in Varanasi on November 30, said a senior official of the district administration.If it happens, it will be the first time when Modi would be in the temple town on the occasion of Dev Deepawali. Also, it will be after a gap of eight months due to the Covid-19 pandemic that the PM would be physically present in his parliamentary constituency.Varanasi district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said preparations were on for the visit. Besides the PM, Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel and chief minister Adityanath are also likely to be present there on that day.During his daylong visit, Modi is likely to attend a series of events. He will inaugurate Rajatalab-Handia six lane projects and address his party workers in a meeting proposed in Mirzamurad area of the district. He will also review the progress of Kashi Vishwanath corridor and offer prayers at the Kashi Vishwanath Temple. The PM is also expected to attend a light and sound show in Sarnath. “As part of the Dev Deepawali celebrations, a laser show will be organised on the Ganga and around 14 lakh earthen lamps will illuminate the iconic ghats and the riverbank. This is the first time when earthen lamps will be lit on the sprawling sandy bank,” said regional tourism officer Keertiman Srivastava. While nine lakh diyas would be lit on the ghats, another five lakh would be lit on the sandy bank, he added. In addition, cultural events will take place at several ghats while the main event will be held at Rajghat.Divisional commissioner Deepak Agarwal and district magistrate Kaushalraj Sharma have already held several meetings in this regard to fine-tune preparations for Dev Deepawali celebrations. According to Pt Prasad Dixit, former trustee of Kashi Vishwanath Temple Trust and an astrologer, Diwali of the deities is celebrated on Kartik Purnima. “This festival is a special part of the ancient culture of Kashi and even finds a mention in Hindu scripture ‘Shiv Puarana’,” he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-likely-to-attend-dev-deepawali-celebrations-in-varanasi-on-nov-30/story-1SNLxEytwGMLESyDysKEWL.html
24-11-2020||India||HAL kicks off crucial testing of jet trainer||State-owned plane maker Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) on Monday announced that it has kicked off a crucial developmental test of a jet trainer that was planned as a replacement for the Indian Air Force’s (IAF) ageing Kiran aircraft fleet. The spin flight testing of the much-delayed Sitara intermediate jet trainer (IJT) -- or the HJT-36 single-engine aircraft -- is being seen as a developmental milestone even though there is no indication from IAF about a possible order. The IJT project is running late by several years. “The spin testing of an aircraft is the most crucial phase of its flight testing. The testing will be gradually progressed to assess the behaviour of the aircraft till six turn spins to either side to meet the targeted requirement,” HAL said in a statement. HAL test pilots Group Captain HV Thakur (retd) and Wing Commander P Avasti (retd) conducted the tests on Monday. Spin is a manoeuvre an aircraft gets into on its own when its controls are mishandled.Spin testing seeks to prove that the IJT can do a spin and recover safely from it, experts said. During the first flight test, the aircraft was taken through one turn spin to the left and right to test the spin characteristics, HAL said. Rookie pilots in IAF go through a three-stage training involving the Pilatus PC-7 MkII planes, Kiran trainers and finally the Hawk advanced jet trainers before they can fly fighter jets. As the Kirans are approaching the end of their service life, some amount of Stage 2 training is already being done on the PC-7. Experts doubted if IAF would order the IJT as it was a case of “too little, too late”.The delay in the IJT programme, conceived more than two decades ago, has upset IAF’s calculations, officials said. The project was sanctioned in July 1999 with a grant of ₹180 crore. The IJT, first powered by a French engine and now a Russian one, was expected to get initial operational clearance by 2006 with deliveries to IAF planned a year later. HAL said the IJT has been redesigned for the spin test “by moving the vertical tail aft and extending the rudder surface”. “These changes (made) for ensuring satisfactory spin behaviour required extensive redesign of the rear fuselage and the rudder. The changes have been incorporated in two aircraft with the involvement and clearance from certification agencies at every stage,” the statement said. After being modified, the two aircraft underwent significant flight tests to assess the general handling with the new configuration of fin and rudder, and the jets have been incorporated with the necessary safety devices (anti-spin parachute systems), it said. Meanwhile, IAF plans to buy basic trainer aircraft from HAL to train rookie pilots. The defence ministry in August gave its go-ahead for the purchase of 106 Hindustan Turbo Trainer-40 (HTT-40) aircraft from HAL to provide a push to the government’s Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (Self-reliant India movement).Basic trainers figure on the government’s negative import list that seeks to ban the import of 101 different types of weapons, systems and ammunition over the next five years. IAF is expected to order 70 trainers initially, with the remaining 36 to be bought after the operationalisation of the air force’s fleet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hal-kicks-off-crucial-testing-of-jet-trainer/story-Br4gWuORaVIhrJqzmtK4yN.html
24-11-2020||India||Complete cold chain set-up by Dec 15 for Covid-19 vaccination: Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Adityanath on Monday asked officials to complete all preparations for the prospective Covid-19 vaccination drive, including “robust cold-chain maintenance set-up” in all districts by December 15.Adityanath’s direction came at a meeting with the state-level Covid-19 management team to review pandemic and Unlock status in Uttar Pradesh.“For Covid-19 vaccination, complete all preparations in a time-bound and well-managed manner. Establish inter-department coordination,” he said.Talking about cold-chain for the prospective vaccines, he said: “Ensure robust cold-chain maintenance set-up in all the districts by December 15, so that there is no damage to vaccines and their efficacy at any point in time. Considering the large population of the state, ensure the availability of enough vaccinators and prepare for their training also.”Adityanath said that till the vaccine became available, all Covid protection, prevention, and treatment protocols should continue with the highest alertness. He also said that there should be no relaxation in the drives to make people aware of safety and protection. Covid-19 tests must continue at full capacity and efficiency, he said.He directed the chief secretary’s office to check on the presence of district magistrates and district police chiefs in their respective offices by calling the office landline phones and also on the CUG (closed user group) cell phones of these officers.He also asked for an intensive campaign against the manufacture and sale of spurious liquor, adding that the toughest action should be taken against those involved in it.“Seize the properties of those who are found involved in such trade and then auction those properties,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/complete-cold-chain-set-up-by-dec-15-for-covid-19-vaccination-adityanath/story-VC1LnCPE4K8yfjlb1CCUyH.html
24-11-2020||India||India’s active Covid case burden remains less than 5%: Govt data||India’s active caseload of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which is the actual disease burden of the country, remains below 5% of the total positive cases reported from the country to date, shows government data.India’s present active caseload (443,486) is 4.85% of the total positive cases, and has been sustained below the 5% mark. The recovery rate continues to be above 93% as 93.68% of all cases have recovered as on date, according to the data compiled by the Union ministry of health and family welfare.As on Monday, the country registered 41,024 new recoveries in a single day, taking the total recovered cases to 8,562,641. The gap between recovered cases and active cases is steadily increasing and presently stands at 8,119,155, the ministry data reveals.Also read | Night curfew to travel restrictions: States take fresh guard against Covid-19For the past 16 days in a row, the total number of new Covid-19 cases reported daily has remained less than 50,000.About 10 states contribute close to 79% of the total new cases reported in a day, of which Delhi (4,454), Maharashtra (4,153) and Kerala (3,757) top the list of most affected Covid-19 states in the country at the moment.Also, 77% of the new recovered cases are also being reported from 10 states with Delhi (7,216), Kerala (5,425), and Maharashtra (3,729) topping the list.About 15 states and Union Territories are currently reporting less than the national average of Covid-19 cases per million population that stands at 6,623 Covid-19 cases as on Monday.Bihar ranks first with 1,839 Covid-19 cases per million population, followed by Uttar Pradesh with 2,235 cases, and in Madhya Pradesh, about 2,362 Covid-19 cases per million of the population are being reported.As for deaths, about 75% of the total 467 new deaths reported in a single day in the country are from 10 states. This highlights that the government focus on containment of the outbreak needs to be on select districts in certain states.“Teams are being regularly sent wherever the government feels the need to assist states in disease management. Centre is always there to help states in whichever way possible,” said a senior government official, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-active-covid-case-burden-remains-less-than-5-govt-data/story-LFDsfZz3YSrNSDfdmshTOP.html
24-11-2020||India||Heavy rains, gale force winds: Nivar to cross Tamil Nadu coast tomorrow||Severe cyclonic storm Nivar is likely to cross the Tamil Nadu coast between Karaikal and Mamallapuram of the southern state on Wednesday. Nivar, the first cyclonic storm to impact the Indian coast this season will have a wind speed of 100 to 110kmph gusting to 120kmph and bring extremely heavy rain to Tamil Nadu and Puducherry on Wednesday and Thursday.The weather bureau has said that the depression over southwest and adjoining the southeast Bay of Bengal has moved west-northwestwards and lay centred about 520km east-southeast of Puducherry and 560km southeast of Chennai. M Mohapatra, India Meteorological Department’s (IMD’s) director general, said on Monday that Nivar is very likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm during the next 24 hours.Also read | Tamil Nadu braces for cyclone, NDRF teams on alertOfficials have said that Nivar is an Iranian name and comes from a list of names suggested by the 13 north Indian ocean countries affected by cyclones in the region.Here is what to expect under the influence of Nivar:1. Widespread rainfall and thunderstorm activity over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal are likely from Tuesday to Thursday and over south coastal Andhra Pradesh, Rayalseema and Telangana during Wednesday and Thursday.2. Extremely heavy rainfall activity also very likely over Tamil Nadu and Puducherry on Tuesday and Wednesday, over south coastal Andhra Pradesh and over Rayalseema on Wednesday and Thursday and over Telangana on Thursday.Also read | List of major cyclones in India since 20193. Wind speed of 55-65kmph gusting to 75kmph is prevailing over southwest and adjoining the southeast Bay of Bengal. It would increase gradually becoming 65-75kmph gusting to 85kmph over the southwest and adjoining west central Bay of Bengal from Tuesday morning. It would further increase becoming 100-110kmph gusting to 120kmph over the southwest Bay of Bengal from Wednesday morning for subsequent 12 hours.4. Squally wind speed reaching 45-55kmph gusting to 65kmph would prevail along and off Tamil Nadu and Puducherry and adjoining south Andhra Pradesh coast and over the Gulf of Mannar from Tuesday morning. It will gradually increase and become 100-110kmph gusting to 120kmph along and off coastal districts of north Tamil Nadu and Puducherry (Nagapattinam, Karaikal, Myladuthurai, Cuddalore, Puducherry, Villupuram and Chengalpattu districts), 80-90 gusting to 100kmph very likely over Tiruvarur, Kanchipuram, Chennai, Tiruvallaur districts from Wednesday forenoon forsubsequent 12 hours.5. Gale wind speed reaching 65-75kmph gusting to 85kmph very likely over adjoining the west-central Bay of Bengal and along and off south Andhra Pradesh’s Nellore and Chittoor districts, Gulf of Mannarand along and off districts of south coastal districts of Tamil Nadu from Wednesday morning for subsequent 12 hours.6. Sea conditions are likely to be ‘high’ to ‘very high’, with waves of 6 to 14 metres, along the coasts of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry on Wednesday. Tidal wave of one-metre height above the astronomical tide is also expected on Wednesday during landfall.7. Fishermen have been asked not to venture into southwest and adjoining west-central and southeast Bay of Bengal, Gulf of Mannar and along and off Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and south Andhra Pradesh coasts from Monday to Tuesday. Those out at the sea have been asked to return to the coast and avoid these sea areas.8. The weather bureau has warned of major damage to thatched houses or huts with the possibility of rooftops being blown off and unattached metal sheets flying. There could be damage to power and communication lines, it added. There could be major damage to paved and some damage to unpaved roads and flooding of escape routes. Tree branches could break and large avenue trees could be uprooted. There could be severe damage to banana and papaya trees, horticulture and crops and orchards and major damage to coastal crops and to embankments and salt pans, it has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rains-gale-force-winds-nivar-to-cross-tamil-nadu-coast-tomorrow/story-FEWpfCXLiSo2Vs2X83oRFM.html
24-11-2020||India||Severe cyclone Nivar to cross Tamil Nadu coast on Wednesday||Nivar, a severe cyclonic storm, the first one to impact the Indian coast this season, is likely to cross the Tamil Nadu coast between Karaikal and Mamallapuram on November 25, with a wind speed of 100 to 110 kmph gusting to 120 kmph and bring extremely heavy rain (over 20 cm) to Tamil Nadu and Puducherry on November 24 and 25.The depression over southwest and adjoining southeast Bay of Bengal has moved west-northwestwards and lies centered about 520 km eastsoutheast of Puducherry and 560 km southeast of Chennai. It is very likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm during next 24 hours, India Meteorological Department (IMD) director general M Mohapatra said on Monday.Also read | 6 NDRF teams deployed in parts of Tamil Nadu ahead of cyclonic storm warningUnder its influence, the rainfall activity is likely to increase substantially over south peninsular India from November 23 onwards with widespread rainfall and thunderstorm activity over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal during November 24 and 26 and over south Coastal Andhra Pradesh, Rayalseema and Telangana during November 25 and 26. Extremely heavy rainfall activity is also very likely over Tamil Nadu and Puducherry during November 24 and 25 and over south Coastal Andhra Pradesh & Rayalseema on November 25 and 26 and over Telangana on November 26.Fishermen have been advised not to venture into southwest and adjoining westcentral and southeast Bay of Bengal, Gulf of Mannar and along and off Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and south Andhra Pradesh coasts from November 23 to 25. Fishermen out at the sea have been advised to return to the coast and avoid the above sea areas.“Nivar is an Iranian name. It is from a list of cyclone names suggested by the 13 north Indian ocean countries affected by cyclones in the region. Three cyclones have already occurred this year, Amphan, Nisarga and Gati which made landfall on the Somalia coast on Sunday night,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, national weather forecasting centre.Sea conditions are likely to be high to very high (waves of 6 to 14 metres) along the Tamil Nadu and Puducherry coast on Wednesday. Tidal wave of 1 metre height above the astronomical tide is also expected on Wednesday during landfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/severe-cyclone-nivar-to-cross-tamil-nadu-coast-on-wednesday/story-5YC3nFVJ7ePSwfPN4198qJ.html
24-11-2020||India||Criminal activity in 11 ‘love jihad’ cases: SIT||The Special Investigation Team (SIT) submitted its report on the instances of alleged “love jihad”, or interfaith marriages, in Kanpur on Monday, detecting criminal activity in 11 cases, but found no evidence of foreign funding or any direct organised operation, a senior police official said.“The SIT found criminal activity had taken place in 11 cases. In other instances, three women denied the charges (against their husbands) and closure reports were filed,” inspector general of police, Kanpur range, Mohit Agarwal said. The SIT submitted its report to Agarwal. Police sent the 11 accused to jail, charging them with rape, the SIT report said. Love jihad is a term coined by right-wing organisations to denote instances of Muslim men marrying women of other faiths, particularly Hindus, through deception, supposedly to convert them forcibly.The SIT reviewed 14 investigations, both completed and those under progress, in which it was alleged that Muslim men married Hindu women by deception. In these 14 cases, the parents of women had maintained that the men hid their identities to develop physical intimacy, the IG said. “SIT hasn’t (got) any concrete evidence about this being done in an organised manner or that this was being funded from overseas,” he added. SIT was formed about two months ago to revisit the cases of “love jihad”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/criminal-activity-in-11-love-jihad-cases-sit/story-zU4aVkOJyupy6ls4UynV3I.html
24-11-2020||India||Budget to unveil more changes to push growth, says Nirmala Sitharaman||Notwithstanding the Covid-19 pandemic, the government has initiated a series of reforms to promote its Aatmnirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (Self-Reliant India Initiative), and the momentum of the process will continue, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Monday, indicating that the coming budget will unveil more structural changes to boost the economy.Outlining the government’s policy direction from the perspective of multi-national companies (MNCs), she said: “If you were to look at the Indian economy, and where the emphasis would be in the coming budget..., I would start with the fact that the Prime Minister himself has been engaging with the global investor community and talking to them {about} what exactly he looks at for India, how does he view India in this changing environment.” The finance minister was addressing the National MNC Conference organised virtually by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). Referring to the recent Virtual Global Investor Roundtable (VGIR-20) where Prime Minister Narendra Modi heard delegates speak about the policy expectations of investors, she said the government had initiated several reforms that are attractive for MNCs, such as a significant corporate tax cut in September 2019. The Prime Minister on November 5 invited 20 major global investors to become part of a “New India” that aims to become self-reliant, calling it a “well-planned economic strategy” to make the country a global manufacturing powerhouse. “Today, India is changing and for the better. From fiscal irresponsibility to fiscal prudence, from high inflation to low inflation, from reckless lending creating non-performing assets [NPAs] to merit-based lending, from infrastructure deficit to infrastructure surplus, from mismanaged urban growth to holistic and balanced growth and from physical to digital infrastructure,” the Prime Minister said.Addressing Indian and MNC executives, Sitharaman said the government’s vision was to forge greater engagement with global economies and become a valuable part of the international supply chain. She assured them that the momentum of economic reforms would continue to make India a hot spot of global investment. The reforms announced by the government under the Aatmanirbhar Bharat package have opened up many sectors including niche ones such as nuclear energy and space technology to foreign investors, she said. She said Aatmanirbhar Bharat did not mean insulating India from the rest of the world. It aims to make India an integral part of the global value chain by improving its domestic competitiveness, she added. “Even at the time of the Covid pandemic, the Prime Minister has not lost an opportunity to take deep reforms, to undertake those kinds of reforms which have not seen the light of the day over the decades,” Sitharaman said.“The momentum for reform shall continue. Several more active reform-related steps are being taken up,” she said, adding that the Narendra Modi government has turned the Covid-19 crisis into an opportunity to make major reforms that had been pending for decades.The measures include professionalisation of the financial sector and a thrust on disinvestments, she said. “All enterprises, MNCs and India Inc., big, medium and small enterprises, are facing a reset exercise in doing business. We will have to make sure that policies are right to make India an attractive investment destination,” she added. Soumitra Bhattacharya, managing director of Bosch Ltd, said recent landmark reforms in corporate taxation, foreign direct investment (FDI) policies, simplification of agricultural laws, seminal changes in labour laws and the introduction of a production-linked incentive scheme are some of the major reforms introduced by the government, which will add up to making an Atmanirbhar Bharat. Bhattacharya, who is also chairman of the CII National Committee on MNCs, acknowledged the rapid pace of reforms undertaken by the Modi government. “The reforms must continue given the tectonic shifts in global supply chains in a post-Covid world, which are attracting many foreign firms to shift their base to India. This opportunity must be seized fully,” he said. “||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/budget-to-unveil-more-changes-to-push-growth-says-nirmala-sitharaman/story-hEUO9pDrE8aulwCQyXiUCK.html
24-11-2020||India||SC verdict on plea against PM Modi’s election today||The Supreme Court will pronounce its judgment on Tuesday on a petition filed by sacked Border Security Force (BSF) soldier Tej Bahadur challenging the election of Prime Minister Narendra Modi from the Varanasi parliamentary seat in May 2019. Bahadur’s nomination from Varanasi constituency was rejected on May 1, 2019. The judgment was reserved on November 18 after the court heard Bahadur’s lawyer Pradeep Kumar Yadav who alleged that he was not granted sufficient time by the returning officer (RO) to produce a certificate from the Election Commission of India stating that his dismissal from BSF was not on grounds of corruption or disloyalty. This is mandatory as anybody dismissed on these two grounds cannot contest elections for a period of five years. The lack of this certificate had led to the rejection of Bahadur’s nomination. On the other hand, PM Modi was represented in court by senior advocate Harish Salve who alleged that the petitioner (Bahadur) did not seek additional time from the RO and for lack of the certificate, his nomination was rightly rejected. Bahadur lost his appeal before the Allahabad high court on December 6, 2019, against which he approached the apex court. He was sacked from BSF in April 2017 after he circulated a video on the poor quality of food supplied to BSF jawans serving at the country’s frontiers. The matter was heard by a bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, and comprising justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian. The petition got registered in Supreme Court in March 2020 and was listed on two occasions -- May 22 and November 4. On each occasion, Bahadur moved a letter for adjournment. On November 18 when the matter came up for the third time, Bahadur yet again sought adjournment. The top court was upset by the conduct of the petitioner. The CJI remarked, “Are you an exceptional case that we should keep granting you time. We get a feeling that you are abusing the process of this court.” The bench refused to adjourn the case and said, “We are hearing you because respondent holds a unique office in this country, that of the Prime Minister. We don’t want this matter to be carried on like this.” The Allahabad high court, while dismissing Bahadur’s petition, found that under section 81 of Representation of Peoples Act, he was neither a candidate nor an elector of Varanasi to challenge the election of the Prime Minister. Bahadur’s petition stated that he was an elector from Bhiwani, Mahendragarh parliamentary constituency in Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-verdict-on-plea-against-pm-modi-s-election-today/story-1hINu9BDihluK51CdSg3bL.html
24-11-2020||India||Delhi HC bars IIT engineer from accessing WhiteHat Jr’s communications||The Delhi high court on Monday temporarily restrained an Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-trained engineer from hacking or unauthorizedly accessing coding startup WhiteHat Jr’s internal communication platform.The court was hearing a $2.3 million defamation suit filed by Karan Bajaj, owner of WhiteHat Jr, alleging that Pradeep Poonia was defaming him, his content and teachers on social media outlets. Bajaj has accused Poonia of infringing trademarks and copyright of properties owned by WhiteHat Jr, unauthorizedly accessing the company’s private communications app and sharing the phone numbers of its educators on public platforms .It restrained Poonia from making any remarks on the quality of teachers of WhiteHat Jr or on their educational or professional background.Online education platform Byju’s acquired Mumbai-based WhiteHat Jr earlier this year in an all-cash deal worth $300 million. WhiteHat Jr. is a coding platform that looks to equip students with computer coding skills and is largely aimed at students from classes 9 to 12. Founded in November 2018, the edtech startup helps children aged 6 to 14 years build commercial-ready games and apps online using the fundamentals of coding. It offers four levels of courses including beginner, intermediate, advanced, and professional, business newspaper Mint reported in August.On Monday, justice Mukta Gupta also rebuked Poonia for using derogatory references to homemakers in tweets he posted, after senior advocate and WhiteHart Jr counsel Mukul Rohtagi told the court that Poonia had falsely alleged that WhiteHat Jr employs “housewives” to teach coding. He added that some of those teaching coding on the platform are PhDs and highly qualified. Rohatgi said Poonia had also got a 13-year-old cousin to sign up for free classes on WhiteHat Jr under different names. The cousin records the classes and later, these recordings are used to defame the teachers, who are called names like “glorified salesman,” he claimed..“Who is stopping you from a healthy discussion? They (WhiteHat Jr) have a registered trademark. You are saying that their teachers are housewives, are you saying they are uneducated persons? How can you be so derogatory towards them? This is, of course, defamation,” the judge remarked during the hearing.“Who are you to put their {telephone} numbers in the public domain? Who has given you this right?”……..Is this not malicious that you are stating their teachers are housewives? Even if they are housewives, what is the problem if they’re doing part-time jobs?” it added.Bajaj, a graduate from BITS Pilani has contended that Poonia was repeatedly trolling his company’s content and teachers on the social media platform.The judge asked Poonia to not use, telecast or transmit an||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-bars-iit-engineer-from-accessing-whitehat-jr-s-communications/story-D9BKeRbCK3zpChRYeMHZLK.html
24-11-2020||India||Bihar legislator Akhtarul Iman uses ‘Bharat’ in oath||A Bihar legislator of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) led by Asaduddin Owaisi created a flutter on Monday by seeking a clarification on the use of the word Hindustan, instead of Bharat, in the Urdu version of the oath he was given to read out on the inaugural day of the assembly formed after recent elections.At the oath-taking ceremony, Akhtarul Imam said it should ideally be Bharat in the Urdu translation of the script and sought a clarification from the chair. Pro-tem speaker Jitan Ram Manjhi immediately said it should be Bharat. “This has been the practice as well as the provision in the Constitution,” Manhji added.Imam then read out the oath, using Bharat instead of Hindustan. He said the word in the old Urdu translation of the oath needed to be changed for conformity.“I have no problem even if it is Hindustan, but the Constitution clearly says Bharat. We swear in the name of Bharat. Even in Maithili and other languages, it is Bharat. That is why I just pointed it out and sought clarity from the chair,” he added.“I have also said ‘sare jahan se achcha, Hindustan hamaraa.’ But if there is an established practice and the Constitution says so, there should be conformity,” he said.Imam also hit back at the Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) for trying to make an issue out of it. “They don’t have any issue, so they keep talking about Kabristan (graveyard) and Pakistan whenever it comes to issues of the poor and minorities,” he said. BJP spokesman Prem Ranjan Patel saidt Imam’s move was clearly aimed at creating an issue out of a non-issue. “What difference does it make if it was written Hindustan. Bharat is also known as Jambudweep, India and other names,” he added. Congress MLA Shakeel Ahmad Khan presented a contrast to Imam when he read out the oath in Sanskrit. When asked about Imam, he said it was for the MLA to answer.“For me, sare jehan se achcha, Hindustan hamara. That is why, I took oath in Sanskrit to send a message to both AIMIM as well as the BJP, that India a bouquet of different flowers. Sanskrit is the mother of all languages,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-legislator-akhtarul-iman-uses-bharat-in-oath/story-Z2O3tOzJ5k22YYXG5aDarI.html
24-11-2020||India||HTLS 2020: Defining a new era of growth and prosperity||Economic history has shown us that eras of golden growth often last decades. More recently, East and South East Asia are a testament to this fact. Within a generation, the face of a country stands transformed. An era of sustained growth, lasting decades, has so far eluded India. Over the past few years, India has seen both economic and governance reforms. Both the scale and pace of the transformation over the past few years are underappreciated. Also underappreciated is the potential for these reforms to usher in a new era of growth and prosperity.The latest in the set of structural reforms is the introduction of the production linked incentives (PLI) schemes approved by the Cabinet a few days ago. The total budgetary outlay for these schemes is Rs 1.96 lakh crore or $26 billion, and assuming a 5% incentive on production value, this translates to potential production of $520 billion, across a range of sectors. Scale has long kept Indian manufacturing exports uncompetitive in global markets. These PLI schemes will encourage scale, as incentives are linked to output. The effects will be felt across the value chain, spurring activity in the many MSMEs linked to the chain.Before the announcement of these schemes, the government codified 29 Central Labour Laws into four codes and announced historic reforms in agriculture and commercial coal mining. MSME definitions were revised upwards. In previous years, we have seen the introduction of the Goods & Services Tax (GST), the Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code (IBC) and the Real Estate Regulatory Authorities (RERA). Corporate tax was slashed to 22% for all companies and 15% for new manufacturing companies. Investments in physical infrastructure have been committed through the National Infrastructure Pipeline. The foreign direct investment (FDI) regime has become more liberal, with limits on FDI raised in many sectors, most recently defence manufacturing. The Foreign Investment Promotion Board was also abolished, streamlining the process.Streamlining of government processes has been a hallmark of this new era. A 79 position improvement was recorded by India in the World Bank’s Ease of Doing Business Index in five years. States were also made to compete, further contributing to the improvement in business environment. Formalisation of firms and employment has been encouraged through the introduction of GST and the new Labour Codes, which allow for fixed term employment across sectors, whilst the scheme announced by the Finance Minister, the Atmanirbhar Bharat Rozgar Yojana, supports the creation of new formal jobs as well.However, this improvement in government processes has not just been left to improving the business environment. There has been a profound transformation in the delivery of government schemes and benefits, ushering in an era of transparency and accuracy, through a concerted effort towards digitisation. The government put its energy in getting the JAM (Jan-Dhan Aadhaar Mobile) trinity going. This has been the single biggest factor for expansion of financial inclusion in India and has presented a unique model for the world. For this to succeed, we needed to open bank accounts and link them to Aadhaar. According to a report by the World Bank, a whopping 55% of all bank accounts created across the world during 2014-17 were opened in India. Fifty-three per cent of the 380 million PMJDY accounts were opened in the name of women. The JAM trinity also enabled direct benefit transfers (DBT). Cumulative direct transfers of Rs 11.1 lakh crore, spanning 56 ministries and 426 schemes have been achieved with zero leakages. The government was able to save Rs 1.7 lakh crore over the past few years, by removing duplicate and fake beneficiaries. One cannot talk of digital transformation without mentioning the impact of digital payments. The enabling infrastructure, the unified payments interface (UPI) was developed and opened up to the private sector. The results are there for all to see. October 2020 saw 2 billion transactions, compared to 1.1 billion just a year ago in October 2019. The volume of transactions is higher than debit and credit cards put together in India. This is yet another example of India paving a new path and serving as a model to the world in financial and digital inclusion. Human resources are critical in India seizing any growth opportunities. Poshan Abhiyaan was launched to battle malnutrition. Ayushman Bharat provided for health insurance to the most vulnerable, as well as creating 1.5 lakh health and wellness centres. The Swacch Bharat Mission improved India’s health and sanitation outcomes. We finally have a New Education Policy (NEP) in over 3 decades. Medical education has been revamped with the creation of the National Medical Council. The Fourth Industrial Revolution is upon us. India must aspire to be at the forefront of this revolution. The government intends to build the foundational layer of tech driven platforms, with the private sector building solutions on top. UPI is a pertinent example. Whether it is the use of frontier technologies in industrial applications or social applications, India presents several use-case scenarios. India can serve as the tech garage for the world, designing solutions that can be implemented across the world. For India to be at the forefront of this revolution, we must continue our push to develop competitiveness in sunrise sectors of growth. The future of mobility is clean, connected, and shared. India must position itself at the forefront of electric mobility and battery storage. There also lies immense potential in digital health and education. Food processing, mobile manufacturing, networking products, pharmaceuticals, medical devices, and solar photovoltaic system manufacturing are other sunrise areas.Public policy has a critical role in ushering in sustained periods of growth and prosperity. In recent history, this has been evident in East and South East Asia. The economic and governance reforms undertaken in India over the past few years address critical bottlenecks that have held back India’s growth story and will usher in a new era of growth and prosperity.The writer is Chief Executive Officer, NITI Aayog. Views are personal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defining-a-new-era-of-growth-and-prosperity/story-VWkcjFjhUPk8qq8CoBpm6K.html
24-11-2020||India||BSF officer crawls 150 feet into tunnel used by Jaish terrorists, finds Pak imprint||The director general of the Border Security Force (BSF), Rakesh Asthana, on Monday ordered intensified patrolling of the international border with Pakistan in the Samba and Rajouri sectors of Jammu & Kashmir with the objective of unearthing more cross-border tunnels like the one used by the four Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) terrorists who were killed in a gunfight on November 19.While Indian intelligence agencies are trying to find the names and antecedents of the four Jaish operatives, people aware of the probe said it was clear the attackers stayed inside the tunnel before moving out on the moonless night on November 19. Further evidence of this, the people added, came from an Indian soldier (Commandant Rathore of 173 battalion) crawling 150 feet into the tunnel used by the Jaish terrorists and recovering packets of biscuits and other food wrappers. The manufacturing date of the “Master Cuisine Cupcake” biscuits, a Lahore-based product, was May 2020, and the expiry date was November 17, 2020.Also Read | Pak attackers, killed in Nagrota encounter, were commando trained who walked 30 km into India in moonless nightThe people cited above suggested that there must have been a Pakistani spotter, perhaps a Ranger, on the other side of the border to guide the operatives when to safely move out of the tunnel. Intelligence inputs said that the four terrorists were launched from the Shakargarh camp of JeM, and moved towards Mawa in district Samba, between the Ramgarh and Hiranagar sectors. The pick-up point was Jatwal village -- the village bang opposite it on the Pakistani side is Nagwal, which falls under Bari Manhassan near Shakargarh.The plan was foiled when a truck carrying the freshly infiltrated militants was intercepted by security forces on the outskirts of Jammu city on November 19, and the four terrorists were killed in a gunbattle.Also Read | 200-metre tunnel used by Jaish terrorists to sneak into India nails Pak roleA case has been registered into the incident at the police station in Nagrota, and recoveries from the bodies show that the terrorists had plans for a major operation -- they were carrying Rs 1.5 lakh in Indian currency, wire cutters, Chinese Black Star pistols, and grenades, apart from assault rifles and nitrocellulose fuel oil explosives, which were also used in the 2019 Pulwama attack.After the discovery of tunnel, Asthana asked for special tunnel inspection teams to trawl the international border as the entire belt is sensitive to infiltration by JeM. Other Pakistani groups, such as Lashkar-e-Taiba and Al Badr are known to infiltrate across the Line of Control (LOC) further north from the Uri and Kupwara sectors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-officer-crawls-150-feet-into-tunnel-used-by-jaish-terrorists-finds-pak-imprint/story-Dfr1aSyR3UNdbxa0f7RSGN.html
24-11-2020||India||PM Narendra Modi inaugurates flats for MPs||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday inaugurated 76 multi-storeyed flats for Members of Parliament, through video conferencing. The flats, located at Dr BD Marg in the heart of New Delhi, have replaced eight 80-year-old bungalows. Addressing the inauguration ceremony, the Prime Minister said, “Decades old problems don’t end by avoiding them, but by finding solutions,” as he highlighted the landmark legislations and developmental works undertaken by his government since coming to power in 2014. The PM said that although talks regarding the Ambedkar National Memorial began during the term of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, it was built after a gap of 23 years by his government. The new building of the Central Information Commission, the War Memorial near India Gate and the National Police Memorial were also built by this government, he said.Praising the high productivity of Parliament, especially Lok Sabha, Modi said that MPs have taken care of both legislations and the processes in Parliament.He also praised Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla for his stewardship of the house and expressed happiness that Parliament proceedings continued even during the pandemic, keeping in mind the protocol to arrest the spread of Covid-19.This period has been “historic” in the nation’s development, the PM said. As the age of 16, 17 and 18 years is very important for the youth, so is the time between the 16th and the 18th Lok Sabha for a young nation like India, he said. “I am confident the next Lok Sabha (2024-29) will also play a very important role in taking the country ahead in this new decade... There is so much for the country that we have to achieve. Be it Aatmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliance) campaign, or economic targets or many other pledges like this, we have to achieve them during this period,” he said.The PM added that green building norms were incorporated during the construction of the multi-storey flats for the MPs. He hoped that the new flats will keep the MPs and all residents safe and sound. A statement from the Prime Minister’s Office had earlier said that the construction of these flats has been completed with savings of about 14 per cent from the sanctioned cost and without time overrun despite the impact of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-inaugurates-flats-for-mps/story-n3smDes7urlDWDpcM3K3nK.html
24-11-2020||India||‘Refrain from going public on internal issues’ Congress to Gulam Nabi Azad||A day after Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad said that a “five-star culture” has gripped his party and that its structure has collapsed, the Congress on Monday asked the “nominated” senior leaders to maintain discipline and refrain from going public on internal issues.“The nominated senior leaders have access to the party leadership. Mr Azad is a CWC nominated member who can just pick up the phone and call anybody instead of speaking publicly,” Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said, addressing a virtual news conference.“These leaders had taught us discipline and how to work in the organisation. So, today when they speak in public, we are shocked. All platforms are available within the party. They are also members of the CWC (Congress Working Committee), nominated members since many years. They have also been ministers in governments and got different responsibilities in the party. They should maintain discipline and refrain from going public on internal issues,” he added.Also Read | Dissent in Congress: From Adhir Chowdhury to Ghulam Nabi Azad, who said whatAzad said on Sunday that the Congress party’s structure has collapsed, and it needs to be rebuilt by having elected leaders from the block to the CWC level. He also said that there is a huge disconnect between the people and the Congress leaders and that a “five-star culture” has gripped the party.Khera said the Congress has an internal system to discuss all issues, including the results of the recent Bihar elections and bypolls. “Last week, there was a meeting where the results of Bihar and other states were discussed in detail. Discussions do happen,” he said.Khera said these leaders should also specify their stand on the organisational elections in the Youth Congress. “You cannot have separate yardsticks. You cannot say that internal elections are not good for the Youth Congress but good for the parent party,” he said.The elections to the Youth Congress faced criticism for their failure to connect with the aspirational India in the run up to the 2014 Lok Sabha polls in which the Congress suffered its worst ever electoral drubbing. Questions were also raised over its outreach capabilities as it ceased to be the sword arm of the grand old party.The rumblings come at a time when the party’s key troubleshooter, Ahmed Patel, is in Gurugram-based Medanta hospital after having tested positive for Covid-19.Azad also came under attack from other Congress leaders, including Youth Congress president Srinivas BV, former Lok Sabha member Kuldeep Bishnoi, party spokesperson Gaurav Vallabh, and two former Haryana ministers Subhash Batra and Krishan Murti Hooda.Bishnoi, who represents Adampur constituency in the Haryana assembly and is the younger son of former chief minister Bhajan Lal, accused Azad of “hatching a conspiracy” with political rivals to break the Congress and “betraying” the Gandhi family.He appealed to Congress leaders and workers not to pay attention to “opportunist leaders” such as Azad.“I want to tell Azad sahib that we will not let the conspiracy he is hatching with the rival parties to break the Congress succeed,” Bishnoi said in a video message on his Twitter handle.“What is your history? In entire life, you have won only three polls, two times Lok Sabha and one-time assembly. Are you talking against the Gandhi family which nominated you to Rajya Sabha on five occasions. I have won more elections than you, two Lok Sabha and four assembly, and I am still a sitting legislator,” Bishnoi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/refrain-from-going-public-on-internal-issues-congress-to-gulam-nabi-azad/story-NE9oPC6ss8AXjNn3W2pOQN.html
24-11-2020||India||India first priority for Covid-19 vaccine delivery: Serum Institute||India will be given first priority for the delivery of the AstraZeneca/Oxford vaccine after its British developers claimed success following mass testing, the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer by volume said Monday.The chief executive of the Serum Institute of India, Adar Poonawalla, said the manufacturer has already produced 40 million doses of the vaccine so far.“By January, we should have, you know, 100 million doses is minimum because we’ve already made 40 million doses,” Poonawalla, whose father founded the vaccine manufacturer, told television broadcaster NDTV.Poonawalla said he expected that some 90 percent of Serum Institute’s doses were to be sold to the Indian government at around 250 rupees (US$3.00).Also Read | Dosing error turns into lucky punch for AstraZeneca and Oxford“Most of that 90 percent is what’s going to go to the government of India and maybe 10 percent in the private market at the higher price (of 1,000 rupees),” he said.“We’re hoping for this emergency use licence so that by the end of December, January we can start rolling out some (doses).”AstraZeneca and Oxford University said Monday that their drug had proved on average 70 percent effective at stopping the virus after trying it on 23,000 people.The Oxford drug can be transported easily at normal refrigerator temperatures -- unlike some of the other candidates, which require extremely cold storage.AstraZeneca said it planned to produce up to three billion doses of the vaccine in 2021 if it passes the remaining regulatory hurdles.The Serum Institute in August struck a deal with Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, to produce up to 100 million COVID-19 doses of two different potential vaccines from AstraZeneca and US biotech company Novavax.Once the vaccines gain regulatory approval, the doses could be produced as early as the first half of 2021 for distribution to low- and middle-income countries, Gavi said.India’s Health Minister Harsh Vardhan told India Today TV earlier Monday that he expected between 250-300 million Indians would be immunised by September next year.First in line would be health workers, other frontline workers including the police, paramilitary and those working in sanitisation, as well as people aged above 65, Vardhan added.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to meet with state leaders on Tuesday for discussions about the distribution of the vaccine, local media reported.India is the second worst-infected nation after the United States with more than 9.1 million virus cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-first-priority-for-covid-19-vaccine-delivery-serum-institute/story-hXYFejSU8iavtAZWxsv6VK.html
24-11-2020||India||India briefs envoys on J&K attack bid||India on Monday briefed the envoys of a select group of countries, including the US and Russia, on the Pakistani origins of the Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) terrorists who attempted to carry out an attack in Jammu and Kashmir last week. The group of envoys, which also included the heads of mission of France and Japan, were provided a “detailed information docket” with details of the planned attack and a list of items and munitions recovered from the terrorists that “clearly indicated their Pakistani origins”, said a person familiar with the development who spoke on condition of anonymity. The envoys were briefed on how the terrorists sneaked into India through an underground tunnel in the Samba sector, and how preliminary investigations by police and intelligence agencies and markings on AK-47 rifles and other items have led India to conclude the terrorists belonged to Pakistan-based JeM. The briefing by foreign secretary Harsh Shringla on the attempted attack at Nagrota in Jammu and Kashmir that was foiled on November 19 also focused on the “implications of the incident on security, diplomacy and the battle against terrorism”, the person said. While the envoys of at least three of the five permanent members of the UN Security Council were invited for the briefing, the Chinese ambassador was not among those present, people familiar with the development said. On November 20, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said security forces in Jammu and Kashmir had foiled a plan by JeM to “wreak major havoc and destruction” by killing four members of the group and seizing a large cache of weapons and explosives. The four terrorists were gunned down during a gun battle on the Jammu-Srinagar highway a day earlier. India had summoned Pakistan’s chargé d’affaires Aftab Hassan Khan on November 21 and warned that New Delhi is “committed to take all necessary measures to safeguard its national security”. India also demanded that Pakistan should desist from its policy of supporting terrorists and dismantle the terror infrastructure on its territory. Monday’s briefing was the first of several to be conducted by the external affairs ministry for small groups of envoys in view of the Covid-19 situation. Several secretaries in the ministry will brief heads of missions from countries in their areas of jurisdiction. “The idea is to share information on the attempted attack as widely as possible with the international community,” said a second person. The envoys were told during the briefing that the incident of November 19 was part of Pakistan’s ongoing terror campaign in Jammu and Kashmir and that in 2020 itself, there were some 200 incidents of terrorist violence while 199 terrorists had been neutralised. Details of JeM’s involvement in similar incidents in the past were also shared with the envoys. “In terms of the bigger picture, it is clear the terrorists were planning the biggest terror attack in India since the Pulwama suicide bombing of February 2019 and the implications can be guessed,” said the first person. Forty Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) troopers were killed in the Pulwama attack. “This is part of ongoing efforts to sabotage the district development council elections in Jammu and Kashmir and carry out a terror attack aimed to coincide with the anniversary of the 2008 Mumbai terror strikes,” the first person added. The envoys were also sensitised to India’s concerns regarding Pakistan’s sustained efforts to destabilise the situation in Jammu and Kashmir and to subvert local elections and democracy, the people said. ...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-briefs-envoys-on-j-k-attack-bid/story-z5kLNbbtw28A8yVZRoyLrI.html
24-11-2020||India||PM Modi may hold Covid-19 review meet with CMs today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to hold a meeting on Tuesday with the heads of all States to review Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation on ground and public health measures being taken to control the disease spread.The meeting will be held via video conferencing, and is scheduled to begin around 10am.According to sources, the initial couple of hours will be exclusively dedicated to an interaction with the chief ministers of states that are reporting increase in active case load and daily deaths due to Covid-19.The states slotted for the initial part of the interaction include Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Manipur and Chandigarh. The PM will discuss vaccine distribution strategy with the other states during the latter half of the interaction.“It is expected to be an extensive review session wherein all issues related to Covid-19 management and vaccine distribution will be discussed threadbare with states. What measures are being taken and what areas need special attention is likely to be discussed,” said an official from the Union health ministry, requesting anonymity as the person is not authorised to speak to media.On Friday, Modi had also held a review meeting on progress being made in Covid-19 vaccine research, procurement and delivery. “That meeting was held with the officials from several government departments that are involved in making arrangement to be able to vaccinate Indians against Covid. Tuesday’s meeting will be with states to know what are the preparations being made on ground,” the official added. From time to time the centre has been rushing teams to states to assist in state efforts towards strengthening containment, surveillance, testing, infection prevention and control measures, and efficient clinical management of the reported positive cases. In the past 10 days, eight high-level teams have already been sent to high disease burden states: Haryana, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Manipur, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. The centre has also advised the States to adopt aggressive and widespread testing to ensure that the missed out and undetected positive Covid-19 cases are promptly identified for timely and effective tracing, containment and subsequent treatment.“As an ongoing effort to strengthen efforts of various State/UT Governments for COVID management, the Central Government has been deputing Central teams from time to time to visit various States/UTs. These teams interact with the State/UT authorities and get a first hand understanding of the challenges and issues being faced by them so as to strengthen their ongoing activities and remove bottlenecks, if any,” says the Union health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-may-hold-covid-19-review-meet-with-cms-today/story-RkpOSZAugU2Uwb7dt8CIIN.html
24-11-2020||India||SC says Covid-19 situation worsened in Delhi, Gujarat, asks Centre, states to file status reports||Terming the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation across the country “grim”, the Supreme Court on Monday gave two days time for states and the central government to disclose their preparedness to combat the spike in infections and the expected rise in cases in the coming months. The top court was hearing a suo moto petition on the treatment of Covid-19 patients and dignified treatment of dead bodies pending since June this year. Taking up the matter after a long gap (the case was last heard on July 27), a three-judge bench headed by justice Ashok Bhushan was concerned particularly about the prevailing situation in Delhi, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Assam. “Last two weeks deaths have increased in Delhi. We need to know what is the situation as on date and if there are shortcomings in providing care to Covid-19 patients,” observed the bench also comprising Justices RS Reddy and MR Shah. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta informed the Court that with regard to Delhi, the Union home ministry had been monitoring the situation since November 13 and sought time to file an affidavit to inform the Court on the prevailing status of Covid-19 cases in the country, especially Delhi.The bench even pointed out to Gujarat and asked the state government why it was allowing political parties to take out grand celebrations and permitted big marriage functions. “What is happening in Gujarat? What action have you taken against political parties for taking out grand celebrations (following the recent victory in bye-elections)….Is law not equally applicable to such persons?” Almost all states had filed compliance report of the Court’s July 27 order directing installation of CCTVs in Covid-19 wards and constitution of Expert Committee among a slew of other directions. Taking note of the same, the bench said, “Situation is likely to grow grim in the coming months. It is also submitted that the situation in the month of December is likely to worsen and all states have to be prepared to combat the worsened situation regarding Covid-19. We are of the view that the immediate steps are required to be taken by all the States as well as by the Union of India.”India’s proposed Venus mission attracts international payload proposalsBengaluru The Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) has short-listed 20 space-based experiment proposals, including from France, for its proposed Venus orbiter mission ‘Shukrayaan’ to study the planet for more than four years.These include “collaborative contributions” from Russia, France, Sweden and Germany, sources in the Bengaluru- headquartered space agency said.Isro was earlier eyeing June, 2023 for the country’s first mission to Venus. “But we are currently reviewing this mission timeline due to delays arising from the pandemic situation”, an Isro official said. “Future launch opportunity is either in 2024 or 2026”. It was noted that the optimal launch window (when Venus is closest to the Earth) comes about every 19 months. Of the Indian and international payload proposals it received in response to an announcement of opportunity for novel space-based experiments to study Venus, Isro has short- listed 20.“These 20 payload (scientific instruments) proposals, including collaborative contributions from Russia, France, Sweden and Germany, are currently under review”, the Isro official said.The one already selected, according to French space agency CNES, is France’s VIRAL instrument (Venus Infrared Atmospheric Gas Linker) co-developed with the Russian space agency Roscosmos, and the LATMOS atmospheres, environments and space observations laboratory attached to the French national scientific research centre CNRS.“Swedish Institute of Space Physics is engaged with India’s mission to Venus”, sources said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-says-covid-19-situation-worsened-in-delhi-gujarat-asks-centre-states-to-file-status-reports/story-nrAvPLREV6BcN37U5WPyoJ.html
24-11-2020||India||As vaccine trials end, where do Covid-19 treatments stand?||Vaccine developers have been racing against time to find a shot that offers immunity against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The University of Oxford announced on Monday that its vaccine against the viral disease was up to 90% effective in preventing infection, Pfizer Inc. filed for emergency use authorization in the US for its vaccine that showed 995% efficacy last Friday, Moderna said its vaccine was 94.5% effective, even as Hyderabad-based Dr Reddy’s Laboratories got ready to begin late stage trails of Russia’s Sputnik V in India this week. Parallelly, major treatment protocols are being revised following results from several global trials that cleared the air on which Covid-19 therapies work better than others.Most Covid-19 treatments fall under three broad categories, antivirals that prevent the virus from multiplying, immune-modulators that regulate the immune response, and combinations that use multiple mechanisms of action.Antiviral remdesivirThe antiviral remdesivir was suspended from the World Health Organization prequalification list that developing countries use as a benchmark for procurement. The suspension followed the health agency’s guidance on Friday against the use of remdesivir in hospitalized patients, regardless of disease severity, after an international guidelines development group found no evidence that the drug improves survival rates, reduces the need for mechanical ventilation, or boosts recovery and other patient outcomes. The group, however, recognized that more research was needed, and supported continued enrolment in trials evaluating remdesivir.“The guidelines group of WHO is separate from Solidarity Trial group as it reviews all evidence, including the WHO trial. They have concluded that there is no evidence of benefit from (remdesivir) in any group of hospitalised patients and that available evidence is inadequate if there is a benefit in non-hospitalised patients. As such, corticosteroids are the only class of drugs with demonstrated benefit on reducing deaths in hospitalised patients. The search for other effective modalities of treatment goes on,” said Dr K Srinath Reddy, president, Public Health Foundation of India.Aspirin and other anti-coagulantsOn the upside, the ubiquitous painkiller and blood-thinning drug aspirin was added to the UK’s Randomised Evaluation of COVID-19 Therapy (RECOVERY) trial in early November. “Clotting is a big problem [in Covid-19]. Aspirin is a widely available, cheap drug which, if it were to work, would be a huge boost,” Peter Horby, the chair of the RECOVERY trial and professor of emerging infectious diseases and global health at the University of Oxford, told joint inquiry committees from the House of Commons in the UK.“We’re [also] seeing better use of anticoagulants — heparin and others — to prevent clotting, and one would anticipate that the introduction of dexamethasone has also had an impact. That would be something that would reduce fatality rates,” said Horby. Monoclonal antibodiesThe US Food and Drug Administration this month issued an emergency use authorisation for the investigational monoclonal antibody therapy bamlanivimab for the treatment of mild-to-moderate Covid-19 in adult and paediatric patients who are 12 years of age and older weighing at least 40 kg who are at high risk for progressing to severe disease and/or hospitalization. Bamlanivimab is not authorized for patients who are hospitalized or need oxygen therapy as it may worsen clinical outcomes.Monoclonal antibodies are laboratory-made proteins that mimic the immune system’s ability to fight harmful antigens, such as viruses and bacteria. Bamlanivimab is directed against the spike protein of Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes COvid-19, and works by stopping the virus from entering human cells.The US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases’ ACTIV-5 Big Effect Trial also began trials of the monoclonal antibodies risankizumab and lenzilumab last month to determine whether they helped hospitalized patients recover faster.Some trials fell short. In October, Eli Lilly and Regeneron Pharmaceuticals suspended their trials of monoclonal antibodies in hospitalised patients on the grounds of lack of efficacy and potential safety concerns.Monoclonal antibodies are approved for Covid-19 treatment in India. “Monoclonal antibodies have some role in early disease, but not in patients who are on oxygen or ventilator support. Since they have a limited role in mild disease, and we know a large number of patients recover on their own, they may not really benefit that much,” said Dr Randeep Guleria, director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Delhi at HT Leadership Summit on Thursday. “We also have to consider whether we will have enough doses to offer everyone, whether the cost can be met as they are expsnsive, and whether they will be needed once the vaccines come,” said Guleria.Anti-parasitic ivermectinStudies have shown that the affordable and widely available drug ivermectin used to treat parasitic infections has antiviral action against the Sars-CoV-2. The use of ivermectin in doses ranging from 200 to 1200 mcg/kg body weight, for a duration of three to seven days, is showing promise in symptomatic relief and viral load reduction.Two studies of ivermectin alone or in combination with doxycycline, found ivermectin-doxycycline combination therapy had a better success of symptomatic relief, shortened recovery duration, reduced adverse effects, and superior patient compliance compared to the hydroxychloroquine-azithromycin combination in mild to moderate cases of Covid-19 disease. A retrospective study of 280 patients treated with ivermectin against standard of care found fewer deaths in the ivermectin group.In India, ivermectin is part of at least five ongoing trials, according to Clinical Trials Registry India, and its benefits are under review.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-vaccine-trials-end-where-do-covid-19-treatments-stand/story-tk50w83bk9yviJ4uy3dRrJ.html
24-11-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||On Monday, Nature carried a report which shows that we are slowly but surely figuring out the origin of the Sars-CoV-2 virus which causes the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The report is about two related findings about the virus that came, not from the field, but the freezer. There have been many significant stories about the virus over the past 11 months, so this is something.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageFirst, according to Nature, in two Shamel’s horseshoe bats captured in Cambodia in 2010, and stored in a freezer in a laboratory, scientists came across a coronavirus that seems to be related to Sars-CoV-2. Coronaviruses are family of RNA viruses (coronaviridae) that are known to cause diseases in humans, other mammals, and birds. Some of these are harmless – some common colds are caused by coronaviruses. But some, as we have discovered, can be dangerous. Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (Sars), Middle East Respiratory System (Mers), and Covid-19 are all severe diseases caused by coronaviruses. Mers, for instance, killed around a third of the people it infected (866 out of 2,519), but most experts admit that this is perhaps an overestimate. Many cases of Mers may have been mild, even undetected, causing nothing more than a minor illness, or nothing at all. Nature reports that the virus found in the Cambodian lab is being sequenced.Second, the journal reports that a Japanese lab found a virus that shares 81% of its genome with Sars-CoV-2 in frozen samples of a Japanese horseshow bat captured in 2013. That isn’t much. There is a 99% similarity within a species. But travel further up the chain (to, say genus), and the divergence widens. For instance, humans and chimpanzees are from the same family (and also sub-family), Hominidae (and Homininae), and our genome is 96% similar to a chimpanzee’s. In general, scientists believe that a genomic similarity in excess of 95% can help them link two species on an evolutionary time-frame. The advantages of doing this with Sars-CoV-2 are clear – it can shed light on the provenance of the virus, even find out whether there was an intermediary in its transmission from bats to humans.Interestingly, the Nature report says that the two findings, in Cambodia and Japan, may well mean that “as yet undiscovered Sars-CoV-2 relatives could be stored in lab freezers”, quoting Aaron Irving, a researcher at Zhejiang University in Hangzhou, China.The report came on a day when a third vaccine candidate, AstraZeneca/Oxford’s, published interim results showing a 90% efficacy of the vaccine when administered as a half dose followed by a full one, and a 62% efficacy when administered as two full doses. The overall efficacy was 70.4%, which would have been considered high in any other context but the current one – the study’s results are being released in the wake of results released by Pfizer/BioNTech and Moderna that show a 95% efficacy of their own vaccine candidates. The AstraZeneca/Oxford vaccine is a vector vaccine, using a virus that causes cold in chimpanzees to transport a piece of genetic material from the spike protein of the Sars-CoV-2 virus to provoke an immune reaction from the body. The vaccine requires ordinary refrigeration, which means it will be easier to transport than Pfizer’s. And a 70% success rate isn’t bad, most flu vaccines have a success rate of around 50%.The good news for India is that Serum Institute of India (SII), the world’s largest vaccine-maker, has an agreement with AstraZeneca to make the vaccine in India (and, in fact, took a risk that the vaccine would be successful to get a head start). The company has said 50% of the vaccines it makes will be for the local market. This means that if UK regulators approve the vaccine for use, Indian regulators may follow suit. If all of this does happen, the first doses of the vaccine may be available in India before the end of the year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-jLmtEikQtYu3ZRpnhJK14M.html
24-11-2020||India||Freight trains services resume in Punjab. Railways plan to run 31 passenger trains till Nov 30||The railway authorities on Monday afternoon resumed the operation of two goods trains under the Ferozepur division, nearly two months after as many as 31 farmers unions in Punjab began a rail blockade in protest against Centre’s new farm laws. Confirming the resumption of services, Ferozepur divisional railway manager Rajesh Agarwal said, “An empty freight train that was stuck in Jalandhar due to blockade by farmer unions started for Delhi. A freight train carrying gypsum from Jammu via Kathua to Lucknow was operated today. More trains will be back on tracks in the coming days.”The Ferozepur division manages railway traffic in major part of Punjab, a part of Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir region.Services of 31 passenger trains, including Golden Temple mail, Amritsar-Hardwar, Jan Shatabdi, and Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra Express Special, will be resumed in the next one week, the official said.The trains were run after the inspection of all tracks falling under the Ferozepur division, officials said.Joint teams of the Government Railway Police and Railway Protection Force did a comprehensive safety audit of entire track network in the entire the Ferozepur division before the trains were resumed. “The inspection work completed on Monday noon after the train services were resumed,” Agarwal said.Ambala DRM GM Singh said one rake of coal was supplied to Nabha power plant whereas coal consignment to the state-run power utility at Lehra Mohabbat in Bathinda is awaited.“Passenger and goods train service in the division restarted. Due to a surge in Covid-19 cases in New Delhi, occupancy in passenger trains is very low and several trains on Delhi-Ambala section and onwards are being cancelled. Otherwise, railways need 72-hours to bring passenger railway traffic back to a normal rate,” he said.Later in the day, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh hit out at the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee after the outfit refused to lift the blockade. He said the blockade will put people to major inconvenience and may have grave consequences for the state. “When the state government and every person in Punjab have been extending their full support to the farmers, why is this union taking a stance against their own state,” he asked.The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee has refused to budge from its stand on clearing rail tracks for passenger trains till the farm laws issue is resolved.This would alienate the committee from people, he said cautioning it against taking such a harsh stand, which could lead them losing the support of the masses.The message that is emanating from the “adamant” stand of the committee is that the union is not really interested in breaking the stalemate on the farm laws issue, Amarinder Singh said.In any case, said the CM, blocking a one-odd track will serve no purpose even for the committee, which incidentally has chosen to stay away from the meeting convened by him on Saturday to urge the farm unions to lift their blockade.Meanwhile, farmers and industrialists in the state welcomed the resumption of train services. Gurcharan Mann, a farmer from Tungwali in Bathinda, said the absence of train services was proving costly to the farming community as the availability of fertilisers was severely hit by the prolonged agitation. “I had to spend Rs 3,000 travelling to Kota in Rajasthan by road for my beekeeping venture whereas train journey costs about Rs 250,” he said. An entrepreneur, Kapil Goyal, said the resumption of train services has brought a sigh of relief to the entire industrial sector of Punjab. “Supply chain was completely disrupted as there was no raw material and finished products could not be delivered to the market. The threat of power cuts, that could have further jolted the manufacturing plants who have yet to get out of the major drop in the demand during the pandemic outbreak,” he said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/freight-trains-services-resume-in-punjab-railways-plan-to-run-31-passenger-trains-till-nov-30/story-1kPSHhODrewraM6kFmdogI.html
24-11-2020||India||Maharashtra makes Covid-19 tests mandatory for air passengers travelling from Delhi, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Goa||The Maharashtra government on Monday made it mandatory for people travelling to the state from the National Capital Region (NCR), Gujarat, Rajasthan and Goa to produce reports showing they have tested negative for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), moving to curb a possible spike in infections after the festive season. An air traveller arriving from the places specified by the government, including the national capital of Delhi, will have to show a negative report of an RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) test, considered gold standard for Covid-19 screening. The test has to be undertaken 72 hours before the scheduled time of landing, according to a notification issued by chief secretary Sanjay Kumar. Passengers failing to provide such a report will have to undergo rapid antigen tests (reports of these tests are available quickly) at the airport of arrival. If found positive, they will have to follow existing protocols laid down for Covid-19 patients. Also Read | Start of second Covid-19 wave? States impose fresh set of curbs, curfews are backFor a train traveller, a negative RT-PCR report — the test has to be done 96 hours before the scheduled arrival — will be a valid entry pass. In the absence of any such report, a passenger will be screened at railway stations on arrival for symptoms. “The passengers with the symptoms will have to undergo rapid antigen testing and will be sent to the Covid Care Centres (CCC) if the report comes positive. The cost of the test and treatment will have to be borne by the passengers,” said the notification. This will be applicable for passengers arriving on trains crossing the four regions, which are witnessing a high caseload.There will also be mandatory screening at border check posts for people of the four places coming into Maharashtra by road. Passengers without symptoms will be allowed entry, the order said. The new travel norms will take effect from November 25, home minister Anil Deshmukh said. The order said that all domestic passengers travelling from airports in Delhi, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Goa shall carry RT-PCR negative test reports with them before boarding and show them to teams deputed at the airport of arrival in Maharashtra. “The Airports Authority of India (AAI) is requested to check the report before allowing passengers to board flights,” the order said. In a video message, Deshmukh noted that the number of Covid-19 cases have been rising in several states after Diwali. He said the government took the decision to ensure that there is no further rise in Maharashtra. As of Monday, Maharashtra has registered a total of 17,84,361 and 46,653 deaths, the worst in the country. Over the past week (November 15-22), the number of new infections has grown by an average of 0.3% every day, according to covid19india.org. While Delhi (534,317 total cases) is witnessing a third wave of infections, Gujarat (198,899 total cases) and Rajasthan (247,168 total cases) are two of the eight states where the Centre has sent special teams over the past two weeks to take stock of the situation. Goa (46,901 total cases), too, is reporting a rise in cases. The number of new infections has grown by an average of 1.3% every day in Delhi over the past week. The figures for Rajasthan, Gujarat and Goa for the same period stand at 1.1%, 0.7% and 0.3%, respectively.With queries being raised as to how hundreds of passengers coming by trains would be checked in Mumbai, the Central and Western Railway clarified that they will not be undertaking the screening of passengers. “The state government-appointed nodal officers from civic bodies/district collectorates were undertaking screenings of passengers outside railway stations when the long route trains resumed after lockdown. The practice will continue this time too. We will provide them with data on the details of passengers and the arrival of trains in Maharashtra. Passenger address and mobile details will also be provided to them,” said a senior Central Railway official, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-makes-covid-19-tests-mandatory-for-air-passengers-travelling-from-delhi-rajasthan-gujarat-and-goa/story-7bSisQz7viQKl12JFvYSIM.html
24-11-2020||India||What could be the cost of another lockdown?||Large parts of India are headed towards a second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Delhi is already in the middle of its third. With infections rising again and reports of medical infrastructure coming under stress in many places, talk of reimposition of restrictions on mobility has started doing the rounds. In fact, in some places such as Ahmedabad, authorities have already enforced restrictions and partial curfews. Over the past few weeks, images of crowded markets and large-scale violations of social distancing norms have served as precursors of a spike in infections. Even so, any decision to impose a blanket lockdown or even a partial closure of markets must take into account the importance of the retail and recreation sector in the economy and the persistence of the post-lockdown distress in the sector.Shopping has not reached pre-pandemic levels yetWhile anecdotal evidence of crowded markets has been suggesting that both sellers and buyers have given a complete go-by to pandemic-related concerns, data from Google mobility trends shows that markets, especially those dealing with non-essentials are yet to regain their pre-pandemic activity levels. Google has been providing data on community mobility for five categories: retail and recreation, grocery and pharmacy, parks, transit stations, workplaces, and homes as a percentage change from the baseline. The baseline value is the median day-value from the five-week period from January 3 to February 6, 2020. For India, only mobility related to grocery and pharmacy had entered positive territory until November 17, the latest period for which data is available. While the retail and recreation sector reached its highest post-lockdown value on Diwali eve, it was still 15% less than the baseline scenario. In fact, a comparison with the United States and Brazil, the first- and third-ranked countries in terms of the total Covid-19 cases — India is second — shows that the retail and recreation sector may have suffered the most in India. Reportage from Delhi, which saw among the most crowded markets before Diwali, confirms the devastation of the tourism sector because of the pandemic (bit.ly/39kvlsLbit.ly). Retail and recreation sector is the biggest source of non-farm employment How important is the retail and recreation sector in India? It is the most important source of livelihood outside of agriculture. Data from the 2018-19 Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS), the latest period for which data is available, shows that trade, hotel and restaurants had the single largest share in employment after agriculture. Its all-India share in employment was higher than both construction and manufacturing. In cities, more than one in five jobs are generated by this sector.   Trade is among the relatively better-paying mass employment sectors outside agricultureGetting people out of agriculture into remunerative jobs is India’s biggest economic challenge. The textbook case of economic transformation from an agrarian to industrial economy has eluded India thus far. Manufacturing’s share in employment and gross domestic product (GDP) has been almost stagnant in India during the past few decades. Manufacturing’s share in employment and GDP was 10.6% and 14.5% in 1993-94, the first post-1991 year for which National Sample Survey Office’s (NSSO) employment figures are available. This increased to 12.1% and 18.1% by 2018-19, the latest period for which data is available. Construction and trade have emerged as the main source of non-farm employment in the post-1991 period in the country. The Reserve Bank of India’s KLEM (Capital with a K, Labour, Energy, Material) database captures this very well. In 2017-18, the latest period for which this data is available, these two sectors had a share of almost 40% in total non-farm employment in the country. However, unlike construction, where labour earnings have stagnated in real terms, trade has seen a rise in per-worker earnings over time. This underlines the sector’s importance in supporting mass incomes.  A new lockdown will deliver yet another blow to the retail and recreation sector, which has not even recovered from the pandemic’s impact until now. Such a disruption can create both demand and supply side disruptions in the economy. Most experts have been sceptical about the question whether the recent economic recovery reflects a sustained improvement or a pent-up/festive demand blip. A blow to the sector, which is one of the biggest sources of mass employment, will have an adverse impact on incomes and therefore demand. At a time when inflation, especially in food items, has reached alarming proportions, restrictions or closure of markets are bound to make things worse. It would be better if all options other than a lockdown are explored before unleashing the most extreme step in the government’s pandemic playbook.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-lockdown-must-consider-its-costs-on-domestic-trade/story-Di5n6Jcp2VoAnnkmMbRBhJ.html
24-11-2020||India||Covid-19: Boost for India as Oxford vaccine candidate shot up to 90% successful||The University of Oxford and pharma major AstraZeneca on Monday said their coronavirus vaccine was up to 90% effective in late-stage clinical trials, announcing what may be the most crucial development for India to realistically begin expecting by the end of the year the first shots to prevent Covid-19 infections.Known as AZD1222, the vaccine has long been the best hope for India — it is cheaper to make, easier to store and distribute, faster to scale up than its two rivals that have shown promise till now, and its principal manufacturer is Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), which has committed to reserving half of what it produces for India. Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageOn Monday, the inventors of the inoculation announced that their clinical trials showed it worked in both the doses they were testing. When people got two shots of equal strength, it was 62% effective, but when the initial dose was halved, the efficacy rose to 90%. The weighted average of the two was 70.4%. “These findings show that we have an effective vaccine that will save many lives. Excitingly, we’ve found that one of our dosing regimens may be around 90% effective and if this dosing regimen is used, more people could be vaccinated with planned vaccine supply,” said Andrew Pollard, director of the Oxford Vaccine Group and chief investigator of the Oxford Vaccine Trial.“The announcement today takes us another step closer to the time when we can use vaccines to bring an end to the devastation caused by Sars-CoV-2,” added his colleague, Sarah Gilbert, professor of Vaccinology at the University of Oxford.The difference in performance of the vaccine when initial dose was halved was not immediately explained. “I think all of us expected that the two high doses would be the best response,” said Pollard. “We think that by giving a smaller first dose, that we’re priming the immune system differently. We’re setting it up better to respond.” Gilbert said the better result with a smaller initial dose could be because this better “mimics what happens in a real infection”. One of the objectives of Phase 3 tests is to determine the right dosage.The makers of the vaccine will now approach regulators with the full data from the trial to seek an emergency use licence, which will allow for it to be given to people who need it at the earliest: health care workers at the frontlines of the pandemic and people vulnerable to serious illness. SII’s CEO said at the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit last week that his company would do the same as soon as the UK permissions came through. He reiterated his position to two TV channels on Monday, and said that at this rate the vaccine should be available for emergency use by the end of the year, and to the general public by around March 2021.In early June, Oxford-AstraZeneca announced a deal with SII to produce a billion doses of the vaccine for low- and middle-income countries (LMIC), which now makes this vaccine the only one yet that appears to be affordable as well as effective for billions of people who live in these countries. “This means we have a vaccine for the world,” Pollard added during a press conference in London. The Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccines, which showed efficacy of about 95% each, are significantly more expensive than the Oxford vaccine and require much more stringent transportation and storage norms because they remain effective in much lower temperatures.The June deal also represented a leap of faith that now appears to have paid off for SII. Poonawalla said at the HT Leadership Summit that the company invested in retooling and stockpiling millions of doses even before it had proven effective. “I felt it was my moral responsibility to take the decision then because if I didn’t, countless lives would be lost next year,” he said, expecting the gamble to pay off, which it now appears to have. SII has produced around 40 million doses as of now and the company will be able to supply 100 million doses by January, Poonawalla said. The latest news was “certainly better than what we expected it to be”, he told two TV channels on Monday. He also reiterated cost estimates he first made during HTLS last week: The vaccine will be priced around $3-4 (Rs 250-Rs 300) per dose for the Indian government. “In the private market, it will be priced around ₹1,000 after taking into account commissions to distributors,” he told the TV channels.It is not clear whether the government will allow direct sales of vaccines since it has taken over all aspects related to procurement in India. Individual state government too are not allowed to source these, according to Union government orders. This was the third consecutive Monday this month for vaccine makers to announce that their shots had shown to work in initial findings from their trials. The first was by American drugmaker Pfizer and German partner BioNTech, who on November 9 said their shot was 94.5% effective in reducing Covid-19 infections. On November 16, another American company, Moderna, released similar results. Both of these work on a new platform and cost close to 10 times more that AZD1222. The Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine requires temperatures as low as -70°C to store. The Oxford vaccine, in contrast, “can be easily administered in existing health care systems, stored at fridge temperature (2-8 °C) and distributed using existing logistics,” the university said in a statement.Authorities in India said they will wait till any of the vaccine candidates are granted an approval in regions where they have applied. “As for following up on the progress made on vaccine research, the government is continuously in talks with the parties involved. However, the actual procurement process will begin the day any of these vaccines gets regulatory approvals. So far, none of these vaccines has secured emergency use authorization (EUA) so there is no question yet of vaccine procurement,” said Rajesh Bhushan, Union health secretary. The subject expert committee at India’s Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) will also be looking at the basis on which approvals are granted to vaccines in other countries.Experts said that while it is important to fast-track approvals during a pandemic, it is not advisable to cut corners as far as safety data is concerned.“Regulators need to scrupulously examine data when submitted — in India as well as other countries. Safety data as well as efficacy data are both important. Science should not be stampeded but regulation can move into the fast track while following all the traffic rules,” said Dr K Srinath Reddy, founder, Public Health Foundation of India and a member of the National Task Force on Covid-19 management. Experts treating patients say 70% efficacy itself is good since most vaccines against respiratory illnesses do not have more than 50-60% effectiveness. “Seventy per cent is quite decent, but our concern should be more towards the safety of the vaccine candidate. It should be safe as efficacy for influenza vaccine is also about 50%,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head, pulmonary medicine department, New Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-boost-for-india-as-oxford-vaccine-candidate-shot-up-to-90-successful/story-dwlnhOgTlpFkDW2pU8TMVM.html
24-11-2020||India||Start of second Covid-19 wave? States impose fresh set of curbs, curfews are back||Several states on Monday announced additional restrictions to arrest the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), as a spike in cases continued in the northern and westerns states. A day after Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray urged people in the state to follow personal protection measures, the government on Monday announced that no person travelling from Delhi-NCR, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Goa will be allowed to enter the state without a negative RT-PCR test report conducted 72 to 96 hours before landing in the state.Delhi is in the midst of a third wave of Covid-19 infections, recording an average of 6,351 new cases per day over the past week. The city has also added more than 100 daily deaths for the past three days, as per the state government’s data.The Himachal Pradesh government on Monday said that all schools and colleges will remain closed till December 31, and imposed night curfews (8pm to 6am) in the four worst-affected districts -- Mandi, Kangra, Shimla and Kullu -- till December 15.The Madhya Pradesh government also extended the night curfew to six cities including Bhopal, Gwalior, Indore and Jabalpur. Click here for complete coverage on Covid-19In Gujarat, even as the weekend curfew ended in Ahmedabad, the government has imposed night curfews in Ahmedabad, Surat, Rajkot and Vadodara. The Rajasthan government, which had earlier announced imposition of night curfews in eight districts of the state, has now put in place prohibitory orders under section 144 of CrPC in several districts of the state. Government and private offices in the state have been directed to function with only 75% of their strength. Additionally, the state has asked all private hospitals to provide daycare facilities to Covid-19 patients at the government prescribed rates.Over the past week, most states have reversed the relaxation given to social gatherings such as marriage and political functions. While Madhya Pradesh restricted the number of guests at a gathering to 250, in Uttar Pradesh, not more than 100 people can attend the event, and 200 in Himachal Pradesh. In Odisha, places of worship will remain closed till further orders.The country has witnessed a spike in Covid-19 cases in the past fortnight. In Rajasthan, the new positive cases reported over the last four days were half of the active cases in the state. Meanwhile, one-fifth of the total Covid-19 cases in Gujarat have been reported in the past fortnight. Maharashtra, too, is witnessing an increase in daily cases. On Monday, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the country stood at 91,75,640 while the death toll reached 1,34,238.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/start-of-second-covid-19-wave-states-impose-fresh-set-of-curbs-curfews-are-back/story-dKtSNcuFzmfxcYz6CwcPBI.html
24-11-2020||India||Tarun Gogoi, man who led Assam from violence to peace dies at 84||Veteran Congress leader, former Union minister, and three-time Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi, who rose from grassroots politics to steer the restive northeastern state towards order and development after decades of bloody insurgency, died on Monday evening in Guwahati of Covid-19 complications. He was 84. Gogoi, the seniormost Congress leader in the state was leading preparations for the next assembly elections due early next year, contracted the infection on August 25. He remained at the Guwahati Medical College Hospital (GMCH) for two months, was discharged on October 25 after testing negative for the virus, but readmitted on November 2 after complaining of breathlessness.His condition deteriorated on November 21 after multi-organ failure, and he was put on invasive ventilation. He died at 5:34 pm, Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma told journalists, adding that doctors found his heart had stopped. He is survived by his wife Dolly, daughter Chandrima, and son Gaurav, a two-time Lok Sabha MP. “His long tenure in office was a period of epochal change in Assam….his passing away marks the end of an era,” tweeted President Ram Nath Kovind. The Assam government declared a three-day state mourning for the departed leader. His body will be taken to his residence in Guwahati and to Srimanta Sankardeva Kalakshetra on Tuesday for the public to offer their respects. The last rites will be performed in Guwahati on Thursday. “Shri Tarun Gogoi ji was a popular leader and veteran administrator, who had years of political experience in Assam as well as the Centre. Anguished by his passing away,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted. Congress president Sonia Gandhi described Gogoi as one of the tallest leaders of the party who was admired and respected for his extraordinary wisdom, vision and ability. “With his long years of experience as an MLA, an MP, a central minister and chief minister of Assam, he was someone to whose unfailingly wise counsel and advice we could always turn to,” she said.First as a Lok Sabha member between 1971 and 2001 and then as the state’s longest-serving chief minister between 2001 and 2016, Gogoi intimately associated with Assam’s politics for nearly half a century. A soft-spoken leader with an affable governance style, Gogoi was admired across the political divide, and tribute poured in on Monday from his erstwhile political rivals. “Tarun Gogoi was a people’s leader who had great contribution in Assam’s political and public sphere. Even though we were in Opposition parties, we shared a wonderful rapport and he was a guiding figure,” said current CM and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Sarbananda Sonowal. Sarma, a protégé of Gogoi who left the Congress in 2015 over political differences, said his mentor’s absence creates a vacuum in Assam’s politics that will be difficult to fill. “I was lucky to have worked under him. He rescued Assam from a period of darkness & led it for 15 yrs ensuring a new phase of development,” said Sarma. Gogoi was born on April 1, 1936 at Rangajan Tea Estate in Jorhat district and trained as a lawyer from Gauhati University. After a few years as an advocate, he took a plunge into politics in 1968 when he was elected as member of Jorhat municipal board. Three years later, he got elected to the Lok Sabha for the first time from Jorhat. Gogoi was re-elected to Lok Sabha for two more terms from Jorhat, in 1977 and 1983. Between 1983 and 1990, he held several senior posts in Congress including the party’s general secretary as well as Assam Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) president. Gogoi got elected to the Lok Sabha for the fourth time in 1991 from Kaliabor, a constituency he represented two more times in 1998 and 1999 respectively. Gogoi’s son Gaurav now represents Congress from Kaliabor. The veteran politician was also a Union minister between 1991 and 1995 handling the portfolio of food processing ministry in the PV Narasimha Rao Cabinet. After a long stint in Delhi, Gogoi returned to politics in Assam at the turn of the millennium and led the Congress government for three consecutive terms between 2001 and 2016. He was representing Titabar assembly seat at the time of his death. When he took charge in 2001, Assam was emerging from decades of insurgency and economic uncertainty with its infrastructure in a shambles and deep sectarian divides threatening development. Gogoi is credited with tamping down on local agitations, boosting tax revenues and soothing tensions through his middle-of-the-road consensus-building style. Gogoi developed a reputation as an approachable and pragmatic leader who opposed the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and claimed the National Register of Ciitzens – which left out 1.9 million people from its rolls in 2019 – was his brainchild, though he picked holes in its implementation. In his second term, the government battled scams but was also buoyed by several insurgent groups deciding to negotiate a peaceful settlement. Building roads and creating employment opportunities for young people were two key schemes that helped shore up support for the Congress. An avid reader, Gogoi was fond of gardening and watching sport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tarun-gogoi-man-who-led-assam-from-violence-to-peace-dies-at-84/story-JgfPPCu4TqWfFOnvOjSbxL.html
24-11-2020||India||Database of frontline workers to get Covid-19 vaccine on priority soon in Tamil Nadu||With the need for a Covid-19 vaccine gaining new urgency, public health experts in Tamil Nadu want to be ready and begin vaccination as soon as it is available. The state is creating a database of its frontline healthcare workers and has formed two committees to prepare for the distribution of a vaccine once it is rolled out. Two of the four vaccine candidates in India are being tested in Tamil Nadu. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to have a virtual meeting with chief minister Edapaddi K Palaniswami among other state leaders on Tuesday to discuss a distribution strategy for the vaccine. The process of enlisting medical institutions-- 2,800 government ones and 35,000 private ones -- which includes hospitals and medical colleges, began in September. The directorate of public health (DPH) gave the institutions a template to identify the healthcare workers who could be doctors, nurses, lab technicians and paramedics. The institutions are in the process of preparing the line list which will be collated at the district-level and sent to DPH’s head office in Chennai. “Once a common portal by the Government of India is ready, we will upload our database,” said Dr T S Selvavinayagam, director of DPH and the principal investigator for vaccine trials in Tamil Nadu. DPH will also issue an identity number for every individual who would get the vaccine on priority to protect against the novel coronavirus.Three committees were formed a couple of days ago to plan for distribution of vaccine on priority basis and oversee logistical requirements including supply chain. One is the state health task force led by health secretary J Radhakrishnan to oversee daily functions, a state steering committee headed by chief secretary K Shanmugam and a district task force headed by the district magistrate. A government order to form these committees was issued on November 11 and they were subsequently formed.Human clinical trials for Covishield and Covaxin vaccinations are being conducted in the state. The second phase of Covishield is nearing completion. It is developed by Oxford University/Astra Zeneca and is being produced in a Pune laboratory. “So far there have been no adverse reactions or events in candidates in the first and second doses that were given,” said Selvavinayagam. Trials for the indigenous Covaxin, developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, are set to begin soon in Tamil Nadu. In October, chief minister Palaniswami announced that the state would provide free vaccinations for all. Palaniswami is the chief minister candidate for AIADMK in the assembly polls slated for early 2021. AIADMK’s ally, the BJP had promised free vaccinations in their 2020 assembly election manifesto for Bihar. The BJP-led National Democratic Alliance retained power in the eastern state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/database-of-frontline-workers-to-get-covid-19-vaccine-on-priority-soon-in-tamil-nadu/story-1ol2QxndHVFQ1TKcWyBwjM.html
24-11-2020||India||200-metre tunnel used by Jaish terrorists to sneak into India nails Pak role||The Border Security Force (BSF) found clinching evidence that the four Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) terrorists killed in the November 19 Nagrota encounter had indeed travelled to Jammu and Kashmir from Pakistan with the discovery of a 200-metre-long and almost 8-metre-deep professionally engineered underground tunnel on the international border early on Sunday.The location of the tunnel, with a diameter of 12-14 inches at the Indian end, was nearly 160 metres long from the international border and estimated to be around 40 metres long on the Pakistani side. The tunnel, according to top security officials, had been newly dug and appeared to have been used for the first time by the four Jaish suicide attackers. “ It appears that proper engineering effort has gone into construction of the tunnel and the hand of the establishment is quite evident,” a senior counter-terrorism official said on condition of anonymity.Watch l BSF officer enters tunnel used by Jaish terrorists, nails Pakistan roleWith the help of a Taiwan-made, hand-held eTrex 20X Garmin global positioning system (GPS) device carried by the terrorists, Indian security agencies and the BSF were able to track the exact route the jihadists followed after entering India through the tunnel and boarding a truck 12 kilometres away from the border. Data was recovered from the GPS device despite the terrorists trying their best to destroy it before getting killed by security forces.Also Read | Pak attackers, killed in Nagrota encounter, were commando trained who walked 30 km into India in moonless nightWhile the location of the tunnel exit in India is at latitude 32. 45648 N and longitude 75.121815 E, the entry point in Pakistan is near three Ranger outposts called Chak Bura, Rajab Sahid and Asif Sahid. The tunnel was detected by a team of seven BSF personnel led by Deepak Rana of 48 batallion who conducted search between 5.40 am and 7.50 am on Sunday morning. The underground tunnel was difficult to locate as its mouth had been carefully concealed and meticulously covered with soil and wild growth with Pakistani Engro Urea Fertilizer sand bags used to strengthen and reinforce the infiltration route for the Jaish terrorists.Data collected from the GPS indicates that the terrorists entered India just next to the 189 boundary pillar and close to BSF border outpost Regal, which is located near pillar 193. The first way-point on the GPS is nearly a kilometre from the border. The terrorists then walked approximately 12 kilometres to national highway number 44 after bypassing an Army camp and a railway track, and boarded the truck around midnight on November 19. Also Read | India summons Pak high commission official over Nagrota encounter, conveys strong concernSecurity agencies have been able to plot the exact route with all the way-points to Jatwal village next to the highway. The truck then took them towards Nagrota where the four were gunned down in an intelligence-led operation. Repeated attempts to capture one of the terrorists came to naught as the Jaish killers had been commando-trained.While intelligence agencies are now trying to decipher the recovered mobiles from the terrorists, security agencies have now foolproof evidence to nail Pakistan and the handlers of the Jaish attackers. India will also lodge a strong protest with Pakistani Rangers, who allowed the infiltration under their watch.Although the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) is expected to give relief to Pakistan by removing it from the Grey List in February 2021, the evidence collected by India clearly shows that Islamabad continues to sponsor terror against India with its deep state harbouring proscribed groups such as the JeM, whose entire leadership is based in Bahawalpur.According to officials familiar with the development, the Narendra Modi government plans to prepare a full dossier on the foiled attack and send it to all friendly countries and financial institutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/200-metre-tunnel-used-by-jaish-terrorists-to-sneak-into-india-nails-pak-role/story-zWeG1ILYayK6An9oP8YJNN.html
24-11-2020||Editorials||Getting ready for the vaccine | HT Editorial||In his comments at a meeting with chief ministers to discuss Covid-19, Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi underlined, rightly so, the need to take precautions which will help prevent the spread of the disease. In recent weeks, a range of factors — the most important of which is the fact that citizens have been reckless in their movement, interaction, and visits to crowded places — have contributed to a spike in Covid-19 cases across states. The fact that India’s health infrastructure is today better equipped to cope with the pandemic, there is an established medical protocol to deal with the disease, and the country has had — for reasons that are still not clear — a low fatality rate is positive. But the PM’s cautionary note is important to save lives and states must strive towards his target — a positivity rate less than five per cent — till the vaccine is ready to be distributed. And that, indeed, was the other focus of the PM’s speech. He suggested that the government was on top of understanding the stages of vaccine development both domestically and internationally, and was in touch with foreign governments, companies as well as multilateral organisations. He emphasised the commitment to ensure that each citizens receives the vaccine and urged states to come up with comprehensive plans, including cold storage facilities, to ensure its distribution. But the PM also, once again, expressed caution. Vaccines must be scientifically vetted before any final decision is taken; there isn’t clarity on the number of doses that will be required; and there is also an absence of clarity on the costs of the vaccines. This tentativeness is actually a positive signal. While claiming that it is preparing a vaccine strategy, the government is also clear that it does not have all the answers — yet. Indeed, this has been the most severe challenge to policymaking in times of the pandemic. How do you take appropriate decisions in the absence of full information and a fog of uncertainty? The good news is that with Pfizer (which health minister Harsh Vardhan has suggested may not be appropriate for Indian conditions), Moderna, Oxford-Astrazenaca-Serum Institute, and now Sputnik V showing high rates of efficacy, India will have options. The challenge is to procure, store, prioritise, distribute, and ensure that every Indian is equipped to battle the most disruptive health challenge in recent times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/getting-ready-for-the-vaccine/story-3iQTdsGYk1bPc9v4czXgIL.html
24-11-2020||Editorials||Biden’s team of liberal internationalists | HT Editorial||The incoming Joe Biden administration has chosen a foreign policy team of liberal internationalists in an era of hard-edged realism. The question for New Delhi is not whether they have knowledge or affection for India. There is an equilibrium in the India-United States (US) ties from which no administration will stray far. The question New Delhi needs to ask is whether the incoming Biden administration understands that the tenets of an earlier post-war global order increasingly no longer hold true. And that the primary reason for this is a powerful and pugnacious China.Mr Biden’s senior-most appointments, Anthony Blinken as secretary of state and Jake Sullivan as national security adviser, are drawn from the Obama administration. The first Obama administration was a mix of isolationism and naivete. The second was a belated attempt to pushback against Beijing. Going by the statements of the Biden team, it is the experience of the second Obama term that animates them. But while they talk of the need to confront Chinese hegemony, this goes hand-in-hand with a desire to cut back US defence expenditure.The priority of the Biden administration is to restore the credibility of the US’s network of allies. This would allow them to use diplomacy to compensate for any military roll-back. So far, India has been included in this cluster. Much will depend on how much cooperation develops between the two in technology, climate and defence. It is not that failure on these fronts will make India and the US enemies. However, it will determine whether either country is in each other’s inner circle or whether both will move in some more distant orbital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/biden-s-team-of-liberal-internationalists/story-R5BTUNMGgCzjlBfcbkylbJ.html
