29-11-2020||News||Banking: A buy-operate-dilute model||A proposal by the Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI)’s internal working group to allow large corporate houses as promoters of banks is being widely criticised. Experts have cited several problems — connected lending in a context of weak supervision; additional stress on an already weak supervisory system in a crisis; further concentration of economic power in large corporate houses; and delayed bankruptcy recognition and resolution of related parties.These arguments are well-known, and RBI, too, is well-aware of them. But there is a shift in its stance. The question is why.Opposition parties suggest that this is due to crony capitalism — the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government, it is alleged, is helping its corporate friends, through a pliant RBI. But given the BJP’s increasing dominance, built on electoral success, it doesn’t need to do such risky favours. It can make demands from corporates without taking such risks for them.What problems could the RBI — and perhaps the government — be attempting to solve here?First, several banks and non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) are staring at failure due to the present crisis in the financial sector. Facing fiscal constraints, the government may not support all public sector banks, preferring to sell some of them. Private banks are fragile because depositors can shift their money to public sector banks at the first hint of trouble. NBFCs have anyway been in a crisis. India does not have a comprehensive resolution mechanism for financial firms — the Financial Stability Board gives India the lowest score among all G-20 countries.Second, bank credit growth has been sluggish for years. Public sector banks and foreign banks have clocked almost zero real growth in the last five years. Despite at least ₹3 lakh crore of capital infusion, public sector banks seem wary of lending, perhaps because of the threat of action by law enforcement agencies, and because of continued balance sheet stress. Economic slowdown and regulatory issues have made foreign banks more cautious. Private banks were driving credit growth, but Covid-19 has predictably slowed them down.Liquidity support cannot paper over solvency concerns for too long. Risk capital is needed to resolve issues in financial institutions on the verge of failure; for banks to lend more; and to create more banks. But capital is scarce. Foreign banks have no appetite for failed public sector banks, and may only buy some of the failed private sector banks. Only a few private banks in India can buy other banks, and most of them would also be busy dealing with the fallout of the current crisis. The resolution process works if there is a pool of buyers for failed institutions.If India does not have many options, the Centre and RBI cannot avoid responsibility. India’s growth story has gone astray. Many reasons for this are attributable to policy choices that pre-date the Covid-19 crisis. Now, faced with radical uncertainty, the government and RBI are trying to increase their options.In this backdrop of the crisis in banking, can some challenges be mitigated by corporate entry? India needs more and larger private banks, and at least a few public sector banks need to be privatised. Corporate entry can help with resolution of failed banks and creation of more banks. But it can also create other problems. Large corporate houses can game the system to inordinately benefit themselves, while creating problems for financial stability and consumer protection.Are these risks justified by the short- to medium-term benefits this move may create? Perhaps we can think of this move in three stages.First, corporate houses take over failing banks over the next two to three years, and start select new banks. During this time, an independent resolution framework for failed financial firms is built and RBI reform is prioritised.Second, for say 10-20 years, corporate houses run the banks, and RBI manages the risks of connected lending by corporates. It will fail to some extent, but perhaps not abjectly. Mechanisms of market-led monitoring must be developed. Development of bond markets and credit derivative markets could help monitor the health of banks.Third, after corporates have made a reasonable return on their investments, gradually dilute corporate stakes to shift towards widely-held ownership. This will require exercise of power over powerful corporate houses. India must also reduce reliance on banks and develop markets for debt securities.These can be seen as buy-operate-dilute projects — buy stressed banks, operate them till a reasonable return on investments is made, and dilute shareholding thereafter. But there are questions: How well can the risks of stage two be managed? Will the political economy allow stage three? Will necessary reforms be implemented?It is possible that corporate entry will become a mistake just like bank nationalisation was, albeit with different structural problems. But the Indian State has often exhibited autonomy from private capital —sometimes even asserting itself to make undue claims.So, depending on how much autonomy the State maintains, it can command dilution of corporate stakes at a suitable time.If the ideal solution is not feasible within an acceptable timeline, governments choose suboptimal solutions. For instance, getting public sector banks to finance India’s infrastructure boom was not ideal, but that is where the money was. India built a lot of infrastructure, and banks took a hit on the projects that failed — many due to policy failures. Such second-best solutions are common in developing countries, and can often lead to improvement. But sometimes the solution can be worse than the problem. India must navigate this policy dilemma carefully. At stake is the trust that India’s financial system runs on. The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/banking-a-buy-operate-dilute-model/story-P81vpHL2Iiq7iiqS6uPCAL.html
29-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Marathas will get quota back if Devendra Fadnavis is made CM again, says BJP MP||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and Rajya Sabha MP Udayanraje Bhosale on Sunday said if Devendra Fadnavis was made the chief minister again, Marathas will get their reservation back. The MP also alleged that the issue of the reservation is being deliberately delayed. The Congress has raised questions over the remarks and asked if the BJP was hinting that it can influence the courts. Bhosale, who was in Satara, said the Maratha community got the reservation when Fadnavis was at the helm in the state. “There is no point in discussing the reservation to the community. It is the responsibility of the ruling parties to ensure that the community gets its reservation back. The state government has failed to follow the case properly in the courts. It is time for the community to seek answers from those responsible,” he said. The Congress has termed the statement controversial. “The reservation is pending in the Supreme Court currently. The state government has been doing its best for the formation of the constitutional bench and vacation of the stay on the reservation. Despite this, elected representatives from the BJP are trying to create confusion among the community members over the issue. The statement by the BJP MP is highly controversial. Does Bhosale want to suggest that Fadnavis can influence the top court too? The ‘confidence’ which has been developed about the constitutional entities is dangerous for the democracy,” said party’s general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-marathas-will-get-quota-back-if-devendra-fadnavis-is-made-cm-again-says-bjp-mp/story-WOt5PzIyK6KVCtyoI5K2XK.html
29-11-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Private doctors await help from Maharashtra government||With no government insurance for private medical practitioners, despite 62 Covid-19 deaths and repeated pleas of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), HT speaks to family members of the victim doctors, for whom the struggle is endless. On May 23, Dr Zabir Hussain, 51, a general physician from Chembur, who also worked with government ambulance service (108) for Covid-19 patients at night, succumbed to Covid-19 infection. He is survived by his wife and three teenaged children. Till May, they managed the household with Hussain’s monthly salary of ₹27,000. With no money left after his death, the family moved back to their hometown in Uttar Pradesh. “My father worked day and night even during the pandemic for an income. I am the eldest son, but I am too young to work. My mother is illiterate, so she can’t earn money to feed us,” said Adil, his 18-year-old son. With no alternative, he may have to leave his studies and start working as a labourer to earn money for his family. “IMA had approached us and we gave them a letter seeking insurance cover but so far, we haven’t received any amount,” he said. When the Covid-19 pandemic was at its peak between April and June, the state health department and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) sought help from private practitioners to screen suspected patients. As gatekeepers in screening Covid-19 patients, the state, under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, had directed private physicians to keep their clinics open. In the initial days of the pandemic, many private practitioners screened people, risking their lives as they were not even provided with safety equipment like personal protective equipment (PPE), said doctors. As per rules, insurance cover is extended only to government doctors. Private doctors have called this decision of the state government “biased and unreasonable”. Despite repeated calls, health minister Rajesh Tope was not available for a comment.“When a person develops symptoms like cold and fever, he/she doesn’t directly rush to a hospital. They first visit a nearby clinic for diagnosis. So, private practitioners provide the first line of treatment and screening to suspected Covid-19 patients. So, how aren’t they directly involved in Covid-19 duty,” asked Deepak Baid, president, Association of Medical Consultant, who has also written to the state chief minister’s office. Most families of physicians who died of Covid-19 infection that HT spoke to criticised the state for ignoring their plight. The kin of Dr Mithkesh Rampal Singh said they are not covered under Covid-19 insurance although the general physician contracted the infection on duty and died on June 8. “While treating an asymptomatic patient in a hospital, he got exposed to the virus. In this backdrop, he should get insurance,” said Dr Vimal Singh, brother of the deceased. “My brother was living with his wife in a rented flat. The insurance money could have secured his wife’s life to some extent.” The Maharashtra chapter of IMA has also held meetings with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray but they didn’t include private practitioners into the scheme. “In a pandemic, all doctors are involved in screening suspected Covid-19 patients. But instead of honouring the doctors, private physicians are threatened of losing their medical licence. They don’t get any benefits from the state government,” said Dr Avinash Bhondwe, president of IMA, Maharashtra chapter. In another instance, after the death of Dr Akshay Thakur, 29, who was resident of Thane, his 57-year-old father has been running around trying to seeking insurance money. “We didn’t want him at his clinic, but he insisted as it was his duty. But soon, he developed fever and we had to admit him to a private hospital. We have spent over ₹12 lakh for his treatment by borrowing money from people. How will I repay them? He was supposed to get married in a few months. But the state denied the money for my son who cared for his patients in the pandemic,” said Deepak, his father.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-private-doctors-await-help-from-maharashtra-government/story-XErxZO5qYe7A0YQTksmn0L.html
29-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: CAT 2020 was tougher than last year, say aspirants||More than two lakh aspirants of the premier Indian Institutes of Management (IIM) and other top B-schools appeared for the common admission test (CAT) 2020 across the country on Sunday. This year, the exam was conducted by IIM Indore and most students found it to be difficult compared to last year. The paper is divided into three sections — Verbal Ability and Reading Comprehension (VARC), Data Interpretation and Logical Reasoning (DILR) and Quantitative Ability (QA). “In the first two slots, both VARC and DILR sections were more difficult compared to the QA section. Overall, the level of difficulty was a little higher than last year,” said Vijay Jha, president of a competitive exam prep institute. Keeping the ongoing pandemic in mind, the exam-conducting authority this year decided to reduce the otherwise three-hour paper to a two-hour paper and held the exam in three slots instead of two slots in a day. The total number of questions asked in the paper was also reduced, in comparison with time reduction this time round. Several students also found the overall difficulty level higher of the examination held in the second slot, between 12:30pm and 2:30pm, compared to the morning slot. “In slot two, VARC and DILR sections were very difficult whereas the QA section was moderately difficult. Scoring well in order to be able to bag seats in top IIMs this year will be a challenge,” said Anukriti Sharma, an aspirant who appeared in the second slot of the exam held on Sunday. “The third and final slot for CAT exam on Sunday was comparatively easier than the first two slots. While DILR section was difficult, the other two sections were moderately difficult, giving relief to many students,” said Kaushik Laskar, centre director of a coaching institute. “Some sections across the three slots were slightly more difficult compared to the same section in last year’s paper, primarily because of two reasons—higher level of difficulty of the questions teamed with reduced time for answering them,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-cat-2020-was-tougher-than-last-year-say-aspirants/story-zkkncSGCqZKvTZu1ikgG4M.html
29-11-2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh teen objects to uploading sister’s pic online, gets killed||A 17-year-old boy was killed by four teenagers in Madhya Pradesh’s Jabalpur on Saturday after he fought with one of them against uploading his minor sister’s photo on Facebook, said police.A resident of Bapu Nagar in Jabalpur, Krishna Singh, 17, was attacked by the four accused with a sharp-edged weapon. Police arrested two accused on Sunday and are interrogating them, said Siddharth Bahuguna, superintendent of police, Jabalpur.“The accused confessed their crime and told police that one of them had uploaded Krishna’s sister’s photo. It was a normal picture. But Krishna felt offended and fought with a 16-year-old accused of uploading the photo a few days ago. The accused called him to discuss the matter near Karondi Railway line on Saturday,” said the SP.Also read: Amit Shah at JP Nadda’s residence as BJP brass meets to discuss farmers’ protestHe further said, “When Krishna reached the place with his cousin brother, the accused was standing with his three other friends. They had a heated argument for uploading the photo. One of the accused hit Krishna with an iron bangle. All four accused beat him up and attacked his leg with a sharp-edged weapon. Krishna fainted on the road. The accused fled from the spot. The cousin, with help of a passersby, informed the police and called an ambulance.” Krishna was rushed to a nearby private hospital from where doctors referred him to another hospital. Later, he was taken to another private hospital where he died while undergoing treatment on Saturday night, said Ashok Singh, Krishna’s father.On the complaint of the father, police registered a case under section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code and arrested two accused. Police are trying to nab two other accused.(With inputs from Monika Pandey from Jabalpur)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-teen-objects-to-uploading-sister-s-pic-online-gets-killed/story-9povl1TlXVzx1viXJdDBoI.html
29-11-2020||Mumbai||Citizens fined for violating Covid-19 norms in Mumbai to be given masks for free: BMC||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Sunday decided to give away free mask to those penalised for violating Covid-19 norms. According to the BMC officials, many offenders pay the fine of ₹200 but continue to roam without wearing a mask. In a statement issued on Sunday, the BMC said, “There are citizens who pay the fine of ₹200 and continue to roam without wearing masks. Therefore, BMC will provide free masks to all citizens who are caught for not wearing a mask.”Apart from collecting fines, the BMC has also started making violators perform community services, such as sweeping roads for an hour or cleaning graffiti, if they argue or refuse to pay the ₹200 fine for not wearing masks.Meanwhile, HT had reported on Saturday as to how despite appealing and making it mandatory for citizens to wear a mask in public places, the number of violators has not gone down. According to (BMC)’s data, between November 6 and November 25, the number of violators booked for not wearing masks has almost doubled. According to BMC officials, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal has directed all the 24 administrative wards to intensify the drive of booking citizens for not wearing masks. As of November 28, 4.85 lakh citizens have been levied ₹200 fine and BMC has so far collected ₹10.07 crore in fines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/citizens-fined-for-violating-covid-19-norms-in-mumbai-to-be-given-masks-for-free-bmc/story-dBEpojYeURwOJA7IJLal8I.html
29-11-2020||Chandigarh||Museum of trees to be inaugurated in Chandigarh today||On the occasion of the 551st birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev on November 30, the governor Punjab and UT administrator, VP Singh Badnore, will inaugurate Chandigarh- the Museum of Trees. The project has been funded by the ministry of culture and is promoted by the Chandigarh Nature and Health Society, a registered NGO. To preserve and propagate the surviving sacred trees by reproducing true genotypes of the parent trees, the museum has successfully reproduced genetically true replicas of 12 sacred trees, including Dukh Bhanjani ber tree of the Golden Temple; Ber tree of gurdwara Ber Sahib, Sultanpur Lodhi;and Ber tree of gurdwara Babe-di-Ber, Sialkot, Pakistan. Conceived and curated by former IAS officer and author DS Jaspal, said the Museum of Trees is a sacred grove created out of genetically true replicas of sacred trees of Sikhism. The naming of sacred shrines after trees is unique to the Sikh religion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/museum-of-trees-to-be-inaugurated-in-chandigarh-today/story-5pFf0Rcg8xQcJktBvEcWhP.html
29-11-2020||Noida||Noida: Dog-bite patients hit as govt hospitals run out of anti-rabies vaccines||NOIDA: As government hospitals in Gautam Budh Nagar have been facing a shortage of anti-rabies vaccines (ARV) for the past several days, dog-bite patients are forced to visit private clinics for the injection. RD Garg, a 57-year-old resident of Sai Apartment in Sector 71, was bitten by a stray dog on Friday. He claimed that he was denied treatment at the district hospital in Sector 30 and was told that the ARV was out of stock. “The doctors there said that despite repeated reminders, the vaccines are not been supplied to them from the state headquarters in Lucknow. Finally, I purchased the vaccines from the market and started the treatment,” Garg said. Similarly, BN Mukherjee of Sector 25 said that he was denied the ARV dose by the district hospital, when he was bitten by a stray dog on Saturday. “The doctors said that they are not sure about the date of arrival of the vaccines in the hospital. I had no option other than to purchase them from a medical shop, and then visited a private clinic to get the injection,” he said. As many as six persons have suffered dog bites since Friday, health officials said, adding that nearly 250 dog-bite cases were reported in the district since March this year.At the government hospitals, anti-rabies vaccines are provided to patients for free. However, due to the shortage, a dog-bite victim in the district has no option other than to have a mandatory course of several vials of the vaccine costing Rs 300 per vial in a private hospital or clinic. When contacted, Dr Renu Agarwal, chief medical superintendent of the district hospital, admitted that the hospital is running out of ARV stock for the past 15 days. “We’ve intimated the matter to the higher authorities and they have assured us to supply the vaccines soon,” she said. GB Nagar district chief medical officer Dr Deepak Ohri also said he had asked the officials concerned to look into the matter. “It is a matter of concern for us as since March nearly 250 dog-bite cases were reported in the district. We have ordered for 1,000 vaccines last week. I hope that very soon the stock will be received at different hospitals and health centres,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-dog-bite-patients-hit-as-govt-hospitals-run-out-of-anti-rabies-vaccines/story-Fhc2kqIndoZBqKyT4VYFDO.html
29-11-2020||Noida||Noida: 200 factories withdraw their electricity connections after the Covid-19 outbreak||NOIDA: With shrinking workforce and orders, over 200 factories in Gautam Budh Nagar have withdrawn their power connections since the Covid-19 outbreak. Not only that, nearly 200 other industrial units in the district have opted for reduced power loads, said officials of the Pashchimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (PVVNL), the power distribution company of the district. PVVNL (Noida division) chief engineer Virendra Nath Singh said that since April this year, 207 industrial units have voluntarily pulled their plugs, after clearing their outstanding dues. “Apart from them, nearly 211 other units have asked us to reduce their stipulated power load. The industrial units, which have permanently disconnected their electric lines, have also given their undertaking that they will not start their production again,” he said. Singh further said that right from the formation of the discom, out of 11,010 factories falling under the domain of PVVNL, as many as 3,115 units have been voluntarily disconnected their electric supply permanently. “It’s a very serious matter that reflects the industrial growth of a city or district. While 390 big industrial units of 2,497 units have got their permanent disconnection, another 2,725 of 8,513 medium and small units have opted for permanent power disconnection. As on average, permanent disconnection is opted by nearly 370 industrial units every year,” he said. Rajesh Kumar, who was running a factory of electronic materials in Sector 63, said that he had no other option than to close his factory as the cost of raw material has gone much higher and the orders have become limited after the Covid-19 outbreak. “Despite being declared as ‘no power cut zone’ by the state government, Noida has no respite from regular tripping. Also, after the ban on diesel gensets in NCR, we have no option left other than pull our shutters down,” he said. Surendra Nahta, president of MSME Association (Noida chapter), said that frequent power cuts have become a routine affair in Noida. “We face regular power cut every day. And, if the industries can’t work on diesel gensets, it is impossible to run the factories. The industries in GB Nagar district are on a receiving end,” he said. However, discom officials said that whenever there is a power cut, our staff fix the problem at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-200-factories-withdraw-their-electricity-connections-after-the-covid-19-outbreak/story-XamBxsxBcONov6IpZdiqSK.html
29-11-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 testing in Mumbai increased by 50% in the past 10 days||With the anticipated peak in Covid-19 cases in December during the ongoing festival season, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has increased testing by around 50% in the past 10 days. November 25 saw the highest number of tests conducted in a single day in Mumbai till date, at 19,018, of which 10,500 were rapid antigen tests, and the remaining were reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests. So far, Mumbai has conducted a total of 18,71,125 Covid-19 tests.The number of Covid-19 tests conducted in a single day in the month of October peaked at around 16,500. However, the number of tests declined to a maximum of 13,500 tests in the first two weeks of November and further dropped to as low as 4,000 tests per day during Diwali between November 14 and November 16. In the past 10 days, BMC has scaled testing by 40% to 50%. On November 27, 16,902 tests were conducted in Mumbai; followed by 17,973 tests next days and 19,018 tests on November 25. Of them, approximately 50% were rapid antigen tests. This figure is likely to further go up in the coming days.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in-charge of BMC’s public health department said, “We are trying to plug all gaps to check the spread of Covid-19 in the community, especially as public interaction at the community level has increased greatly due to the festival season, and unlocking of the state.”BMC is now conducting tests at airports and railway stations which are landing points for people coming into the city from other states. It is also targeting households that were found locked during the My Family My Responsibility surveys, considering the reverse migration. BMC is targeting crowded areas and workplaces. Also, BEST bus drivers and conductors are being tested.“Considering the economic background of vegetable vendors and hawkers in markets, they are likely to take BEST buses. The bus conductors come in contact with a large number of people daily, hence, we want to ensure we tap positive persons in time and isolate them from the community by quarantining them on time,” Kakani added.If any person tested at airports and railway stations returned home before their results are found positive, high-risk contacts in the families are tested as well.However, the positivity rate has remained between 6% and 8%, versus the average positivity rate of 15%. This has been attributed to a high number of rapid antigen tests conducted daily, which have a lower rate of accuracy. While positivity per cent of RT-PCR tests is between 10% and 12%, the positivity rate of antigen tests is only 3% or 4%.Kakani said, “If an antigen test result shows negative, but the person is showing symptoms or is a high risk, BMC is conducting RT-PCR tests on these persons again.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-testing-in-mumbai-increased-by-50-in-the-past-10-days/story-Zzg2Q0AHhmyX1VNqcn8AxN.html
29-11-2020||Noida||‘Super spreader’ groups not a major threat in UP, reveals govt data||The focussed testing on possible “super spreader” groups during the festival days did not throw up alarming Covid-19 spread, said government officials quoting partial data. This has come as a relief to government agencies that feared that crowds could lead to a spike in infection. The focussed testing was taken up cross the state from October 29 to November 12 during which specific groups of people, including auto-drivers and cycle-rickshaw drivers, beauticians and staff of malls, sweets shops, and restaurants, among others, were tested. The highest positivity was recorded from religious places -- of the 114,976 tests, 2,438 turned positive cases (2.12%). The state health department said that they had tested 55,741 auto rickshaw drivers and found only 413 positives (0.74%), while 60,702 restaurant staff was tested and 416 (0.68%) returned positive. About 116,054 staff of malls were tested and 1025 (.88%) were found positive.A total of 19,170,240 samples tested so far till November 29 while the total cases in UP stand at 541,873. This gives an overall sample positivity rate of about 2.82%.Ever since the festival season in November, the state has witnessed marginal increase in number of active cases. On November 1, active cases stood at 23,323, was 23,367 on November 14 and was 24,575 on November 29.“The results indicate that we have been able to timely isolate such people who come in contact with large number of people and can spread infection. With the results and focussed testing, we have also been able to spread awareness among people so that they understand that infection has not gone and all precautions must be taken,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s additional chief secretary (health), while adding that data for other groups was in process of compilation. A similar focussed testing exercise in Ghaziabad during the same period tested 15,314 samples and found only 79 persons positive ( a rate of about 0.38%). “The results indicate that there is no large-scale infection among the groups and those who tested positive were timely isolated. However, we are still keeping checks on such groups and not let them off completely. We also have post-festival focussed testing going on till November 30 and there too the positivity is less than 1%. With the figures, we have also focussed our attention to several localities like Vaishali, Indirapuram, Raj Nagar, Kavi Nagar etc which have high number of cases. There, testing and surveillance have been feed up,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. The state officials said that it is because of the focussed testing that the spread of infection could be regulated and they are taking up every measure to control it further. “Starting December 1 to December we have another drive coming up in which districts have been asked to plot on their maps areas having high number of cases in past 15 days. In such cluster areas they will be taking up focussed testing and targeted surveillance to check spread of infection,” Prasad, added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/super-spreader-groups-not-a-major-threat-in-up-reveals-govt-data/story-NLhR5X6rnJCfdjHGWFzuaL.html
29-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: AQI improves on Sunday; IMD predicts warm winter||The pollutant-measuring indicator — air quality index (AQI) — further improved on Sunday while the weather bureau said the Konkan coast, including Mumbai, could experience a warm winter as per the average temperature forecast.The AQI on Sunday fell under satisfactory category during the day at 93 for PM2.5 pollutant, which increased to 106 (moderate) by the evening, according to the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR). Malad (249) was the only location in Mumbai that recorded poor air quality while Worli (43) had the best air quality, falling under the good category. Researchers said a rise in temperatures and moderate wind speed was responsible for satisfactory-moderate air in Mumbai.According to the Central Pollution Control Board, the AQI was 110 (moderate) with PM2.5 and PM10 as prominent pollutants.Meanwhile, according to India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) seasonal outlook, which issues subdivision-wise average temperature forecast for winter (from December 2020 to February 2021), showed the Konkan coast (including Mumbai) could record the average minimum and maximum temperature 0.17 degree Celsius above normal during the period. All other sub-divisions in Maharashtra (Vidarbha, Marathwada, and central Maharashtra) could witness below normal maximum and minimum temperatures (ranging between 0.01 and 0.15 degree Celsius below normal).“The upcoming winter season will be similar to previous years for Konkan’s coastal districts with a warmer winter, and the subdivision may not witness exceptionally low temperatures. However, below normal minimum temperatures are likely over most subdivisions of north, northwest, central and few subdivisions over east India,” said an IMD official, adding that global weather parameters had indicated below normal sea surface temperatures over central and eastern equatorial Pacific Ocean) and moderate La Niña conditions (over equatorial Pacific Ocean) till the end of winter was expected.On Sunday, the city witnessed warm conditions with the suburbs recording maximum temperature at 34.5 degrees Celsius, a degree Celsius above normal, while south Mumbai recorded 33.6 degrees Celsius, a degree Celsius above normal. The minimum temperature was 23 degrees Celsius in the suburbs, 3 degrees Celsius above normal, and 24.2 degrees Celsius in south Mumbai, 2 degrees Celsius above normal.SAFAR predicted an AQI of 104 (moderate) for Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-aqi-improves-on-sunday-imd-predicts-warm-winter/story-8lJ6NnQ3nNZzkLF23PVrKO.html
29-11-2020||Noida||Two fires in Noida, no injuries||Noida: Two warehouse fires were reported from sectors 93 and 63 on Sunday but no deaths were reported from either incident.The first incident was reported at around 4.15 pm from a wood warehouse in Gejha village in sector 93.“The cause of the fire is unknown at the moment. A passerby saw the flames coming out of the building and reported the incident. Several fire tenders were rushed to the spot but it controlled with help from only one within half hour,” said Arun Kumar Singh, chief fire officer.He said that there was no staff present at the site because of the weekend which reduced the chances of anyone getting injured. Officials said that goods kept inside which were worth lakhs were however, destroyed in the fire.Another incident was reported around 5 am from H block in sector 63.“This was also reported by a passerby who saw flames on the terrace of the building. It is a spare parts manufacturing factory,” said the fire chief.Fire officials said that a staff member lives on the terrace and that is where the fire originated from. However, he wasn’t there at the time and there were no other casualties in the incident.Singh said that the cause of this fire is still being looked into.“It was controlled in about 45 minutes and although several teams reached there, only one fire tender was enough. The fire did not spread to any other floor or damage any neighbouring structures,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/two-fires-in-noida-no-injuries/story-B5NU4xUXGme8wStFrgnKTL.html
29-11-2020||Noida||Sanitation work not being done properly, says Noida CEO||Noida authority chief executive officer (CEO) Ritu Maheshwari pulled up the health department for dereliction of duty. She conducted a review meeting of work circle 1 and 2 that include sectors 1, 2, 3 and 5, among others. “The maintenance of roads, drains, footpath, divider, debris and sanitation work is not being carried out properly. No maintenance is a serious issue and it seems that the bonds signed with the contractors are not being used properly. All maintenance works should be carried out properly,” said Ritu Maheshwari in a press statement released on Sunday.The review meeting saw that works, which were supposed to be completed by October this year still remains incomplete, said the press note.CEO instructed that issues raised by the representatives such as Noida MLA and the Gautam Budh Nagar Member ofParliament Dr Mahesh Sharma should be properly looked into so that the complaints of general public related with civic issues are addressed properly, said press note.Apart from this CEO also asked the staff to put up ‘no parking on roads’ banners in areas, where parking facilities are built. The move is aimed at ensuring that the newly built parking facilities are used by the industrial unit owners. The authority has built underground parking facilities in sector 1, 3 and 5 so that factory workers do not park their vehicles on the roads causing traffic congestion.“The authority staff should encourage the industrial unit owners to park their vehicles in the parking facilities so that traffic congestion issue is resolved,” said Rajiv Tyagi general manager of the Noida authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/sanitation-work-not-being-done-properly-says-noida-ceo/story-SCOuY7eqyosdcQHeEpDlYP.html
29-11-2020||Noida||Foundation stone laid for ₹6,000 crore data centre in Greater Noida||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday laid the foundation stone for a ₹6,000 crore data centre project to be built in Greater Noida’s sector Knowledge Park-V. Work on the project is scheduled to begin in January and estimated to be completed in five years, said officials.On October 15, NIDP developers’ private limited had applied for the project -- a six-storeyed building on 20 acres.“We allotted the 20 acres in only 10 days. The building will house data centres for Google, Microsoft, Facebook and other such companies. This project will fuel growth in this city,” said Narendra Bhooshan chief executive officer of the Greater Noida authority.The authority will earn ₹110 crore revenue and the developer will invest ₹6,000 crore. The first of six towers will be developed by July, 2022 and the rest in the next five years.The project will create 500 jobs in the city in its initial years, said officials.“IT companies will store their data here and it is a matter of pride that such an important project is being built in Greater Noida. After we allotted the land for this project we have started getting requests for the allotment in this region because this project will help in growing supporting agencies related with IT jobs,” said Bhooshan.According to the Greater Noida authority this ‘data centre’ will be of 250 megawatt capacity and in entire country all data centres are of 400 megawatt capacity.“The data centre project is a milestone for the UP state and it will bring huge investment in this region in the time to come,” said the developer’s promoter Niranjan Hiranandani, also the national president of national real estate development council and ASSOCHAM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/foundation-stone-laid-for-6-000-crore-data-centre-in-greater-noida/story-WGVp2YMWpPXJrJyGsuMlVI.html
29-11-2020||Noida||Residents’ group demands relaxation in stamp and registration fee||A residents’ welfare group on Sunday protested in Greater Noida demanding rebate in house registration fee and stamp duty. Urging the state government to take cue from the state governments of Maharashtra and Karnataka, Noida extension flat owners welfare association (Nefowa) also sent a letter the chief minister’s office, real estate regulatory authority and to the Greater Noida development authority demanding that the duty be reduced from 5 percent of the property cost to 2 percent. The demonstrators stated that while the government has given relaxation to the builders, the buyers are also facing financial crunch in form of salary cuts or job and business losses in the wake of Covid-19. “While the central government had provided moratorium to the real estate, there should be some rebate for the flat or home buyers. A number of residents have suffered financially due to the Covid-19 pandemic, it doesn’t justify to charge such high registration and stamp duty from them at such point of time. We have thus demanded the state government to consider relaxation in registration fee,” said Abhishek Kumar, who held a demonstration on Sunday at Charmurti circle in Greater Noida. The registration of property and stamp duty is a major source of income for the state government. “The revenue collection is almost back on track for the district and October saw a collection of approximately ₹130 crore. There are several facets involved in the registration fee which depends on the value estimate of the house or flat. Current rate is 5 per cent of the values estimated of the residential property, a stamp duty of Rs 50,000 would be additional,” said Pradeep Asthana, senior registrar, GB Nagar, adding that the stamp and registration duty for a typical 1300 sq ft flat in Noida would cost around ₹3 lakh. Officials said that the department, on average, earns a revenue of ₹150 crore per month. “It’s cruel to charge such a high duty from a person who is already suffering financial crunch. Over the period of next one year several thousands of families will be getting possession, if the duty is relaxed then it will be a great help,” said Rahul Garg, member, Nefowa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/residents-group-demands-relaxation-in-stamp-and-registration-fee/story-tHzvvhRMr1lgPtLkzs1PCI.html
29-11-2020||City||Punjab CM taking advantage of farmers’ stir: Ambala MLA Goel||Amid the war of words between the chief ministers of Haryana and Punjab on the ongoing farmers’ stir, political slugfest kicked off in Ambala on Sunday as City MLA from the BJP Aseem Goel alleged that Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh was taking undue advantage of the agitation. HDF leader Chitra Sarwara also reacted on the issue and said the government was offering farm laws in “form of pits”. “Assembly elections in Punjab are due anytime soon and Captain Amarinder is trying to take advantage of the farmers’ protests. Farmers are understanding who is in their favour and who is just making political statements,” Goel said after inaugurating an electric crematorium at Ram Bagh in his constituency. His comments came a day after his counterpart from Cantonment seat and state home minister Anil Vij alleged that Captain had “engineered the ongoing agitation”. Chitra hit out at the government and said that what unfolded in the last few days has proved that they were digging “large pits” in form of farm laws. “We’ve seen some unfortunate situations wherein the government tried to do everything possible to stop the farmers going to Delhi. All this has shown that the government was trying to offer large pits in the form of farm laws. On the one hand, the government is inviting farmers for talks and on the other, they’re digging roads, putting barricades and using water cannons even on elderly,” she said. “They are also trying to change the narrative through several means. But I’m proud that the Haryana farmers started their march from Ambala,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-cm-taking-advantage-of-farmers-stir-ambala-mla-goel/story-x5TJKQ7Ei4XDqd56yszrGP.html
29-11-2020||Noida||56-year-old woman ‘gang-raped’ by cattle thieves in Greater Noida||Noida: A 56-year-old woman has alleged that she was gang-raped by four men who had broken into her house in Greater Noida to steal cattle. The police said a medical examination of the woman has been ordered.The incident, which took place around 2am on Sunday, was reported from a village under the Dadri police jurisdiction. In her complaint, the woman said that she was asleep and woke up when she heard noises coming from the cattle shed. The woman said that she saw four masked men armed with lathis trying to steal the cattle.“When I confronted them, they manhandled me. The men were very aggressive and soon they held me so that I could not scream for help,” she said in her complaint. The woman alleged that she was then gang-raped by the four before they fled with two of her buffaloes.The woman’s family reported the incident on the police helpline around 4.30am. Later, a complaint was filed by her at Dadri police station after which the unidentified men were booked under sections 376D (gang rape) and 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) of the Indian Penal Code, the police said.Police officials said that a medical examination of the woman was ordered after she filed a complaint.“We have registered a case based on her complaint. We are waiting for the report of the medical examination to verify the claims and take due action accordingly,” said Rajveer Singh Chauhan, station house officer, Dadri police station.The officials said that the woman’s adult daughter and son were also there, but were unharmed. A search is on for the masked intruders and the stolen cattle, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/56-year-old-woman-gang-raped-by-cattle-thieves-in-greater-noida/story-V7pIA4imJU3YIDKvrkAsTM.html
29-11-2020||Noida||Noida sees poor air quality, likely to worsen||Air quality of Noida and neighbouring areas dropped on Sunday. Pollution monitoring agencies warned that the air is likely to worsen as weather was likely to remain unfavourable in the coming days. On Sunday, the wind speed dropped from the average 20kmph on Saturday to 8kmph on Sunday. Weather analysts said that while 8kmph is moderate wind speed and enough to disperse the local pollutants in ideal conditions, it is, however, not enough to disperse the excess pollutants that were blown in from Punjab and Haryana where there are a few farm fires still burning. “The wind speed has dropped from 20 kmph on Saturday to 8 kmph on Sunday. For next three days the wind speed will hover around 6 to 8 kmph only, which is enough to disperse smaller particles in ideal conditions like low humidity, normal temperatures. However, if the number of farm fire incidents increases, the air quality will worsen,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, India Meteorological Department (IMD). According to the central pollution control board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on Sunday, on a scale of 0 to 500, was 268 against 223 a day earlier. The AQI of Greater Noida was 273 against 226 a day earlier. The AQI of Ghaziabad was 300 against 240 a day earlier. The AQI between 101 to 200 is considered ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is considered ‘very-poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’. Meanwhile the fine particles or pollutants also recorded a rise in their overall volume over past 24 hours. PM2.5 for past 24-hours in Noida was recorded at 116.41 microgrammes per cubic metres against 104.70 microgrammes per cubic metres a day earlier. The PM2.5 for Greater Noida was 120.09 units against 101.23 units a day earlier. The PM2.5 for Ghaziabad was 151.86 units against 112.24 units a day earlier. The safe limit for PM2.5 is 60 units. According to the System of air quality and weather forecasting and research (SAFAR), the AQI is likely to deteriorate further due to rise in the number of forest fire and slowing down of the speed. “The AQI is forecasted to marginally deteriorate to the Very Poor category for the next two days. Likely to further deteriorate and forecasted to be in the higher end of Very Poor category for on 2nd December.,” said the SAFAR statement on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-sees-poor-air-quality-likely-to-worsen/story-x1lTyjiy22NuIWA5HpVUyN.html
29-11-2020||Noida||Bharatiya Kisan Union to continue ‘Dilli Chalo’ stir from UP Gate, decides to prolong stay||Farmers led by Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) on Sunday continued their stir from the UP-Gate border in Ghaziabad and said that they will camp below the flyover. Government authorities said that they have made arrangements for smooth flow of traffic basic facilities for the farmers.On Saturday afternoon, the number of farmers at the site grew as many from neighbouring districts joined them responding to protest calls (of ‘Dilli Chalo’) against the central government’s decision to implement new agriculture reforms, which the farmers say would go against their interest.The farmers called the UP Gate flyover the “kisan kranti chowk” as it was also the site of another earlier major stir on October 2, 2018 when they had protested for loan waiver and against high power and fuel prices. Farmers brought in their tractor-trolleys, ration, clothes, bedrolls to camp below the UP-Gate flyover. They also cooked food at the site and also prepared tea which they shared with the police. On Sunday afternoon, they once again grouped and broke the barricades put up at the UP-Gate border by the Delhi police. However, they did not proceed to Delhi. “We will stay here and will wait for the plan for meetings with the government. There is no plan given to us and we are waiting for government to talk to us. More farmers will come on Monday,” said Rakesh Tikait, spokesperson of BKU said at UP-Gate protest site on Sunday.On Saturday, the BKU had rejected the government’s offer for talks. The farmers union said that the government had put conditions for the talks, which were unacceptable to them. It said that they would block five main entry points to Delhi, one of which was UP Gate.“It is not just the new farm laws. We have other issues regarding sugarcane price, electricity, among others. There are lot of issues if anyone wishes to listen to them. We will continue stay here (until the government agrees to our demands),” said Tikait. The farmers have come from Muzaffarnagar, Meerut, Amroha, Ghaziabad, Gautam Budh Nagar and other nearby districts in UP. Considering the continuation of the protests at UP-Gate, the district officials have made traffic diversions. Commuters coming from Indirapuram, Noida and proceeding to Delhi have been asked to take NH-9 flyover at UP-Gate and not allowed to come below the flyover area which is barricaded. “The other commuters from Mohan Nagar will be diverted to Anand Vihar-Kaushambi border. Commuters must avoid coming to UP-Gate as there is no entry/exit we have allowed below the flyover area. The diversion will continue till farmers are at the site. Their protest has been peaceful and they have decided to prolong their stay,” said Gyanendra Singh, superintendent of police (city 2). The district administration officials said that they have also provided basic facilities to the farmers at the site. “We are in constant touch with them and there will be no disruption of traffic on Monday. We have regularly sanitized the protest site and also roped in water tankers, mobile toilets for farmers. They have assured that there will be no disruption of inconvenience to public,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. Sunday is the fourth day since farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh among other neighbouring states had set off on their “Dilli chalo” campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/bharatiya-kisan-union-to-continue-dilli-chalo-stir-from-up-gate-decides-to-prolong-stay/story-Zd7hSpFURJlMqk9fs6yhUJ.html
29-11-2020||Chandigarh||KBDAV Sector 7 teacher’s bag snatched in Chandigarh’s Sector 19||A 32-year-old teacher with KBDAV Senior Secondary Public School in Sector 7 lost her bag to a snatcher riding an Activa scooter near the Brahmrishi Yoga Training College in Sector 19 on Saturday, police have said. The bag contained her mobile phone, Rs 300 in cash and her documents.  Dimpy Verma, 32, a resident of Dera Bassi in Mohali was walking from school with a friend at 3.30 pm when the scooter rider snatched her bag and sped away.Police have registered a case under Section 379-A (snatching) and Section 356 (Assault or criminal force in attempt to commit theft of property carried by a person) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 19 police station. The snatcher is yet to be traced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kbdav-sector-7-teacher-s-bag-snatched-in-sector-19/story-fMJnbiEGMBpuc6FUN0UWTJ.html
29-11-2020||Chandigarh||MC mulls building bitumen roads in Sec-38 motor market||The Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) is considering constructing asphalt and bitumen roads instead of cement roads in the Sector-38 (West) motor market. The MC had sought the opinion of the National Institute of Technical Teachers and Research (NITTTR) on its proposal of constructing cement roads in the market due to failure of bitumen ones to last their normal life. MC chief engineer Shailender Singh said, “The NITTTR has suggested that we should go for the asphalt and bitumen road rather than cement or only bitumen ones in the motor market. It has also suggested proper drainage system in the matter, which would also include grease traps.” The grease traps will collect the oil and grease being discharged from the shops in the motor market. These oils and grease shorten the life of the bitumen road, he added. Notably, MC councillor and BJP state president Arun Sood in October’s general house meet had criticised the MC for not constructing a road in the market. He had said, “The civic body had committed that within 100 days of the second term of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Sector-38 (West) motor market will have a cemented road. But, even as 2021 nears, they haven’t started the work.” After the issue was highlighted by Sood, MC decided to first take technical advice from the NITTTR on the issue. After the advice, the MC will prepare an estimate for the project and then float work tender after getting necessary approvals on the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mc-mulls-building-bitumen-roads-in-sec-38-motor-market/story-5pJ7NdrwRl3FZZj5JhgO5M.html
29-11-2020||Delhi||Only three effluent treatment plants along Yamuna meet standards: NGT-appointed panel||Only three out of the 13 Common Effluent Treatment Plants (CETPs) in Delhi, meant to treat industrial effluents before wastewater can be reused or discharged into the Yamuna, meet environmental standards, thus adding to the pollution load in the river, the NGT-appointed Yamuna Monitoring Committee has found. Expressing concern over the issue, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) panel has asked the Delhi government agencies to take short-term measures to improve the functioning of the plants. Also, it asked them to “explore strategies” to deal with effluents being discharged from non-conforming industrial areas.On November 19, after chairing a meeting of the Delhi Jal Board, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had said that his government was working on a concrete plan to reduce 90% pollution in the Yamuna river by 2023. The plan includes the use of innovative technology and reuse of treated water.The National Green Tribunal (NGT)-appointed panel in a recent meeting with officials of the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC), Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (DSIIDC) and the industries department raised concerns over untreated or partially treated effluents being discharged into the drains that ultimately cause pollution in the Yamuna.“The capacity utilisation of the 13 CETPs is extremely low. While the total capacity is 212 million litres per day (MLD), only 60-65 MLD is being treated. This is mainly because the plants are not getting enough wastewater with the flow being only around 48-50 MLD,” said a member of the committee, who did not wish to be named.Of the 33 notified industrial clusters in Delhi, which have around 31,000 industrial units within 17 clusters have water polluting units, which are connected to the 13 CETPs. Besides, there is so far no assessment of how many water-polluting industries are there in the unorganised sector such as those running from residential or unplanned industrial areas while most of these have not set up any effluent treatment plants and discharge wastewater directly into the drains. The DSIIDC has informed the committee that the pollution caused by different sets of industries must be assessed by segregating them by location and the government departments under whose jurisdiction it falls. As per a report submitted by NEERI (National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) to the NGT-panel, which was roped in for surveying industrial clusters, many areas such as Wazirpur, the amount of industrial effluent found in the drains within a cluster was twice the amount of effluent reaching the CETP. “This clearly points to industries either not conveying all the effluent discharge to the CETPs or water polluting activities being undertaken by unauthorised units within the clusters. This is a matter of concern as effluents were allowed to pollute the water without any oversight,” the report stated.Based on NEERI findings, the committee in the meeting asked the DPCC and the DSIIDC to jointly prepare a report with suggestive strategies, which can help in the regulation and monitoring of such units. “An exhaustive report of all these challenges and the work done so far for the river’s revival will be submitted in a report to the NGT by next week for further directions,” the committee member said.The NEERI report also suggests short-term measures such as de-sludging of CETPs to improve their efficiency. “The industries department told us that it has issued notices to industrial associations managing CETPs to get the de-sludging done and in case they fail to do so, the department will undertake the task and recover the cost from industries,” the member said.Meanwhile, a senior DPCC official, who did not wish to be named said, “A report has been submitted to the committee and we are waiting for further comments.”The two-member committee comprises former Delhi chief secretary Shailaja Chandra and former NGT expert member BS Sajwan.Manoj Misra, convener, Yamuna Jiye Abhiyan, however, said that fixing of CETPs is no more a solution to the problem. “The only solution to industrial pollution is zero discharge. All water-polluting industries must have a treatment plant at the site itself or in case of smaller industries, there could be a cluster than can set up one common plant where wastewater is discharged and reuse it after treatment. There must be no discharge into the drains at all,” said Misra.He said during the Covid-19 induced lockdown when all industries were shut, Yamuna was relatively cleaner, proving the impact of the pollution caused by effluents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/only-three-effluent-treatment-plants-along-yamuna-meet-standards-ngt-appointed-panel/story-VLnrg4RG3lhcN1JpWRJbYL.html
29-11-2020||Mumbai||India inches towards first marine ‘designated area’ off Maharashtra coast||The state government has sent its final proposal to the Centre to notify 2,011.43 sq km Angria Bank – located 105km (56.7 nautical miles) off the Konkan coast – as a ‘designated area’ under the Maritime Zones Act, 1976, thereby inching towards India’s first marine protected zone beyond territorial waters.“It is a very important step towards conservation and protection of marine biodiversity,” said Milind Mhaiskar, principal secretary (forests) who wrote to central bodies, the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change (MoEFCC) with a copy to the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) on November 25. Supporting coral reefs, algal habitats, and high diversity of marine flora and fauna, Angria Bank was identified among 106 important coastal and marine biodiversity areas in India by the Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun.“There is a high probability that surrounding waters are an important habitat for marine mammals. However, as it lies beyond the Indian territorial waters (12 nautical miles), it is not possible to declare the site as a protected area under the Wildlife Protection Act (WPA), 1972,” read the letter, adding, “Therefore, being in the exclusive economic zone (EEZ), the only way to provide legal protection is by notifying it as a ‘designated area’ for marine protection under the Maritime Zones Act, 1976, (covering territorial waters, continental shelf, exclusive economic zone, and other maritime zones) of the MEA.”Angria Bank, located off Malvan in Sindhudurg district, is a submerged plateau with coral reef formation at a depth of 20 to 400 metres, home to 29 genera and 39 species of both hard and soft corals (protected under Schedule I of the WPA) across 650 sq km. The proposed boundary for protection is approximately 61-km long and 50-km wide.MoEFCC said they were aware of the proposal. “Angria Bank is a very contentious issue. We need to read through submissions in detail to understand the significance of this declaration before taking any decision,” said Soumitra Dasgupta, additional director-general of forests (wildlife), MoEFCC.After the Maharashtra mangrove cell (under the forest department) first proposed conserving the area on April 29, it was finally approved by the state government earlier this month.“This is a major step forward as it will open new avenues for the conservation of corals and help address increasing natural events like coral bleaching (turning white due to rising sea surface temperatures as an aftermath of climate change). With more conservation focus there will be more protective measures, promotion of research, a bit of controlled tourism, and control over suspected threats,” said Nitin Kakodkar, PCCF-Wildlife.This proposal is a first under the Maritime Zones Act, 1976. “There was no precedence to accord legal protection to such a marine area beyond territorial waters. Thus, every minor detail has been elaborated ensuring security concerns and focused approach to address every threat to this submerged plateau,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest (Mangrove Cell). A proposal based on thorough underwater surveys The state’s final proposal was based on underwater and boat surveys in collaboration with Centre for Marine Living Resources (CMLRE) under the Ministry of Earth Sciences and Wildlife Conservation Society (WCS)-India, Mangrove Foundation of Maharashtra and partner institutes. As many as 123 species of fish, 43 species of invertebrates, dolphins and whales among other marine animals protected under India’s wildlife laws were recorded. Threats including overfishing, oil, natural gas and mineral exploration, rising ocean temperatures, and rising marine traffic were identified.“Submission of the final proposal is one of the last steps in ensuring this notification for protecting this pristine coral reef, adjoining seascape, and biodiversity comes through. The decision will help India meet international obligations for more protection of our marine biodiversity,” said Prakriti Srivastava, country director, WCS-India. Marine biologist and scientist Deepak Apte said, “We must pursue this (an effort to protect this critically important reef) at the Central government-level for its early declaration.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/india-inches-towards-first-marine-designated-area-off-maharashtra-coast/story-P8RPgVUfug8tqtLq9spl1I.html
29-11-2020||Delhi||‘Sky-watching’ event at Delhi govt schools||Students across 29 Delhi government schools will on Monday participate in a “sky-watching” event for the first time using telescopes provided by the Samagra Shiksha — an overarching programme for school education extending from pre-school to class 12. The Delhi unit of the programme has set up astronomy clubs in these schools in the past three years.“Through this activity, students will learn, through practical exposure to celestial events like a lunar eclipse, the movement of planets, the arrival of comets meteor shower etc. that will help in building confidence among students and prepare them for future,” said Mohinder Pal, deputy director of education (Samagra Shiksha).Kavita Rana, assistant project director at Samagra Shiksha, said team members will also be visiting all the schools holding the event on Monday. “Mentors from ISRO and IIT,Kanpur will be participating for the activity,” she said.Schools have been asked to comply with Covid-19 norms regarding physical distancing and sanitisation. Parents of the students will also have to submit a no-objection certificate to the school. “Students will be able to gain hands-on experience and see what they learn in their books. This is bound to increase their interest in science. We are calling over 30 class 9 and 10 students to school to watch the full moon and Saturn rings,” said Vijay Kumar, librarian at RPVV Shalimar Bagh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sky-watching-event-at-delhi-govt-schools/story-boS4Z5YRzUx3l4QoL9LGaN.html
29-11-2020||Delhi||Rise in pollution, dip in mercury likely from first week of December: IMD||The city’s air got slightly worse on Sunday as a consequence of a marginal increase in farm fires in neighbouring states and slower winds over the National Capital Region (NCR), government agencies said.As per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the average air quality index (AQI) was 256 on Sunday, up from 231 the previous day, both categorised as ‘poor’. Meanwhile, weather scientists have forecast a further increase in pollution December 2 onwards, with temperatures expected to dip and winds likely to slow down.Scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) have forecast below normal minimum temperatures in parts of north and northwest India including Delhi this winter.“The minimum temperature is likely to remain between 6-8 degrees Celsius over the coming week. Usually, such a drop in temperature is observed from December 20-22, but is likely in the first two weeks of the month itself this year. This may impact air quality, as winds are likely to get calm around December 4-5,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre (RWFC).On Sunday, the Safdarjung Observatory — readings from which are taken as representative of Delhi’s weather — recorded a minimum temperature of 7°C, three notches below normal. The maximum was 26.4°C, one above normal, while winds blew at speeds of between 8 and 10kmph. “Wind speeds will remain around the same over the next couple of days, but will become slow from December 2 onwards,” he added. As per IMD’s seasonal outlook for December to February released on Friday, nights and early mornings are likely to be chilly with below normal minimum temperatures over most parts of north, northwest and central and some parts of east India, while day temperatures are likely to be above normal over the same regions.According to the System for Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), the Union ministry’s air quality forecasting wing, the share of stubble burning to the city’s PM2.5 levels on Sunday rose to 6% from 4% the previous day. “The number of fire counts was 464. Ventilation conditions are likely to slow down from December 2 onwards and air quality is likely to deteriorate to “very poor” zone thereafter,” the Safar bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rise-in-pollution-dip-in-mercury-likely-from-first-week-of-december-imd/story-v01zynEWfrQM0HuYJGpXjI.html
29-11-2020||Delhi||North corp to set up second waste to energy plant in Rani Khera||North Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor on Sunday said that the corporation is going to set up another waste to energy plant at Rani Khera, which will help reduce the height of the Bhalaswa landfill .“The corporation has tied up with the Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) to set up a new waste to energy plant at Rani Khera. The plant will be set up at a cost of Rs 1,000 crore,” said North Corporation mayor Jai Prakash. The mayor visited the landfill on Sunday after reports of a fire at the site the previous night. The civic body at present generates 4,500 metric tonnes of waste daily, of which 2,300 metric tonnes is processed at the Narela-Bawana waste to energy plant, while the remaining is dumped at the Bhalaswa landfill.“We have installed 15 trommel machines to dispose of legacy waste at the landfill site. By now we are able to reduce the height of the landfill by 30 feet. Four more trommel machines are in the process of installation that will further help reduce the waste at the site,” the mayor said.Rising over 50 metres (beyond the permissible height of 20 metres), the landfill exhausted its lifespan in 2006.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/north-corp-to-set-up-second-waste-to-energy-plant-in-rani-khera/story-5X8Tq2n1R3yzX58KVxLdKO.html
29-11-2020||Delhi||AAP, BJP, Congress spar over ongoing protests||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said the Central government should immediately talk to agitating farmer groups without any preconditions.He tweeted, “The central government should immediately talk to the farmers without any terms and conditions.”His comments came a day after Union home minister Amit Shah said that the government was ready to talk to farmer leaders before the scheduled date of December 3 (Wednesday) along with an appeal to move their demonstration to a designated open space in Burari – located in the northern peripheries of the city.The BJP hit back at the AAP accusing them of “misleading” farmers.Leader of Opposition in Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said, “When the Union home minister has given a clear assurance to farmers, we fail to understand why the AAP leaders are misleading them. Large gatherings are unsafe in the light of the pandemic. The BJP can also incur all expenses for arrangements in Burari. The AAP should look at its own anti-farmer reforms. They charge road tax on tractors, higher power rate for irrigation and hardly procure anything at Minimum Support Price (MSP). Delhi farmers are in distress because of them.”AAP’s spokesperson Raghav Chadha accused the Congress of supporting the three laws which the farmers are protesting against.Chadha said, “Congress party’s 2019 election manifesto had the proposal of the abolition of agriculture produce market committees (APMC). Also, the Modi government had formed a committee to discuss these anti-farmer laws. In meetings of that Committee committee, Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh of the Congress gave his consent to all three anti-farmer laws.”The Congress denied the charges and hit back saying Chadha’s statements were “outright lie”.Mudit Agarwal, vice president of the Delhi unit of Congress said, “In the manifesto, the Congress had promised reforms in APMCs. And we are against the idea of doing away with APMCs. Also, minimum support process has to be given legal status under the new law to protect the interest of the farmers. As far as the committee is concerned, the Congress leadership in Punjab had never consented to the three Bills (now laws) which the farmers are protesting against.” (ends)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/aap-bjp-congress-spar-over-ongoing-protests/story-roI9fQ3F7wZsJIJzI4K1mI.html
29-11-2020||Delhi||Sleeping in tractors, bathing by the roadside, women farmers say they’ve come prepared||Gurdev Kaur, a 70-year-old woman farmer from Patiala, gets a call every two hours from her family members, who are concerned for her well being. Kaur, one of the oldest women participants in the ongoing protests, has been camping at Delhi’s Singhu Border for the past three days with thousands of others from Punjab and Haryana who have marched up to the capital to voice dissent against the newly passed farm laws by the Central government.And Kaur is not the only one. Hundreds of women farmers have marched to Delhi with their male counterparts to voice their opposition against the new farm laws, which agitators say will change the manner in which agricultural produce is procured and traded .Septuagenarian Kaur says that when they were told they will all march up to Delhi to protest against the laws, she did not think twice. “In Punjab, we have been attending meeting on our action plan every day for the past two months. We are ready to support the agitation till our last breath,” she said.Kaur’s husband passed away a few year ago. She has two married sons back home who take care of the house and the family. “My daughters-in-law will take care of the house while we are here. They call me up frequently to ask if I am fine. They are worried because I am old. But I am not alone. There are hundreds of women here to support the cause and we take care of each other. We have our daily doses of medicines and other necessities with us. We can survive well enough,” she said, adding that she also speaks to her grandson daily, who is in Canada.Sixty five-year-old Amarjeet Kaur, another protester, added that for the last three days they were sleeping in tractor trolleys. “We have brought along mattresses and we sleep in tractor trolleys. We have designated places to take bath and relieve ourselves. We are not used to all this, but it is for a cause in which all of us are together. Most of the women here are the only representatives from their families,” she said.Donning a salwar kameez and covering their head with a shawl or dupatta, these women participate in the protest at the Singhu Border by the day and as it starts getting dark, retreat to their tractors to prepare the day’s meal. One of them, 50-year-old Charanjeet Kaur said their tractor is at least four kilometers away from the main protest site. “In the afternoon, we sit where our kisan leaders deliver speeches and raise slogans against the current farm laws. By evening, we return to our tractor trolleys, which is our home for now,” she said.For the past three days, a majority of these women farmers have mainly been occupied in preparing large quantities of food and distributing it among the protesters hrough Langars with the help of other younger farmers.“Most of our time is spent in cooking meals. We’ve been eating chapati with mixed vegetable curry for the past three days, which we cook ourselves. We’ve brought ration in abundance. We have food to last us for 5-6 months. When we decided to leave for Delhi, each of us contributed different items. While some brought oil, some contributed spices. Someone else donated their stove while others were told to chip on with mattresses and quilts. When our ration gets over, we will bring more. But will return only when our demands are met,” said 62-year-old Baldev Kaur, another woman farmer from Fatehgarh, close to Patiala.The farmers have been protesting at Singhu Border since Friday when thousands of them reached Delhi’s border, but were restricted from entering the Capital. Clashes later broke out with the police, with the farmers trying to cross through barricades to enter the city. The Delhi police later allotted Sant Nirankari ground, in Burari, to the farmers to continue their agitation. The farmers, however, turned down the offer, continuing to block the Singhu Border and demanding Ramlila Maidan as a protest site, which is close to Lutyens’ Delhi.Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary, Bharita Kisan Union, Ludhiana said that whoever was with them had volunteered.“Women have been the backbone of our movement since the beginning. Even in Punjab, they have been taking care of us when it came to food and other necessities and kept our movement going with active participation in all fields. At least 1000-1200 women joined us from Patiala , Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Amritsar and other places. We respect them and are deeply thankful to them for their contribution,” Lakhowal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sleeping-in-tractors-bathing-by-the-roadside-woman-farmers-say-they-ve-come-prepared/story-9r7WiktfmMOL5dAyWSaaPI.html
29-11-2020||City||Signal issues plague use of point-of-sale machines, say railways staff||With a sudden spurt in the number of transactions through the point-of-sale (PoS) machines amid the Coronavirus pandemic, poor network connectivity is troubling the ticket checking staff at the city railway station.A PoS machine is a hand-held device used to process card payments. It is used in case a person is travelling without a ticket and has no cash with them. In such cases, the passenger can pay through debit/credit card and the ticket checking staff will process the payment through a PoS machine and issue a receipt to the passenger and keep a copy with them.The railways had provided 80 PoS machines to ticket checking staff at Ludhiana railway station in August 15, but they hardly use it due to the technical issues attached with these, such as poor network signal in moving trains.Requesting anonymity, a staffer said that one of the reasons for providing PoS machines to them was to minimise cash transactions due to the Covid-19 outbreak, but due to poor signal in moving trains, they were struggling to use the devices.The railway staff is also finding it difficult to keep a record of receipts as the ink on them fades out within a week, making it impossible to decipher the text. According to the staff, they have to store the receipts for six months. One solution is to keep photocopies of the receipts, but that will cause financial burden on the staff. They have sent a representation to senior officers over these issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/signal-issues-plague-use-of-point-of-sale-machines-say-ludhiana-railways-staff/story-6mI3msj5AQKhkgyiO3bJ3O.html
29-11-2020||Chandigarh||Handa-Duggal-Nagarkoti panel sweeps Chandigarh Press Club elections||Defeating Sukhbir Bajwa of Dainik Bhaskar by a margin of 59 votes, Punjab Kesari’s Ramesh Handa was elected the president of the Chandigarh Press Club, Sector 27, after the result of the elections were announced here on Sunday.The Handa-Duggal-Nagarkoti panel won a clean sweep this year.Saurabh Duggal of Hindustan Times was elected to the post of secretary general after he defeated Jaswant Singh Rana of Dainik Tribune by a margin of 105 votes. Rajinder S Nagarkoti of Times of India won the post of senior vice-president with a margin of 143 votes against Rajinder Dhawan of Dainik Tribune, while Mona of The Tribune defeated Archana Sethi of Punjab Kesari for the post of vice-president (1) by a margin of 30 votes.Rajesh Dhall of Dainik Jagran was elected as vice-president (2) after he defeated Jagtar Singh Bhullar of ANB News by 24 votes. Dushyant Singh Pundir of The Tribune was elected to the post of secretary by a margin of 42 votes against Jai Singh Chibber of Punjabi Jagran.Karnail Singh Rana of Punjab Kesari was elected as joint secretary-1, while Mansa Ram Rawat of Punjabi Tribune was elected as joint secretary-2. Umesh Sharma of News 18 Channel won the post of the treasurer.The Chandigarh Press Club, established in 1980, has been holding elections annually since 1984 without a miss. This year, the elections were delayed owing to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/handa-duggal-nagarkoti-panel-sweeps-chandigarh-press-club-elections/story-kJlwLHbeMPKeBH3lmbpJ8J.html
29-11-2020||City||Furniture workshop ravaged in Sunday afternoon blaze at Ludhiana’s Haibowal area||Furniture and machinery worth lakhs were gutted in a fire that broke out a workshop in Haibowal on Sunday afternoon.Though no one was injured, as the workers managed to run to safety in the nick of time, the flames and plume of smoke caused panic in the area, which is dotted by closely-placed residential buildings.As per information, someone set a pile of waste on fire at the plot located opposite the workshop. It is suspected that the furniture kept outside its premises picked this fire, which led to a blaze in the building.Leading fireman Rajan Singh said, “Three fire tenders were sent to the spot after we received an alert and the flames were put out in two hours. Workers rushed out of the building before the fire brigade reached the spot. Hence, injuries were avoided.”Fire at scrap godown in Gurmail NagarMeanwhile, in the second such incident in a week, a fire was reported at an open scrap warehouse at Gurmail Nagar near Giaspura on Saturday night.On November 22, another scrap godown had caught fire in Salem Tabri.Small explosions in the building and bright flames in the thick of night left residents of houses located in the adjacent narrow streets nervous.The fire was first noticed around 10.30pm, following which the owner and neighbours first tried to douse the flames and then called the fire department around midnight.As many as five fire tenders were rushed to the spot, but these could not reach the spot due to the narrow street, forcing firefighters to lay out a 600-foot-long hose to start the operation that lasted till 3am. As the premises were closed for the night, no one was hurt.Sub-fire officer Maninder Singh said, “No casualty was reported and the firefighters controlled the flames in around three hours.”Alarmed by the incident, residents demanded that the godown be shifted out of the area, as such mishaps posed grave danger to the population living around it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/furniture-workshop-ravaged-in-sunday-afternoon-blaze-at-ludhiana-s-haibowal-area/story-7qlNTlZo0wBDyVIfObfNvO.html
29-11-2020||Chandigarh||Liquor contractor alleges extortion by policemen in Chandigarh||A case was registered on Sunday against unidentified persons after a liquor contractor alleged that a few Chandigarh police personnel were extorting money from him and submitted CCTV footage of the ‘extortionists’ to the police.The liquor contractor (name withheld) in his complaint alleged that Chandigarh police personnel had been extorting money from him for the past few months. As it was not verified whether the men in the CCTV footage were police personnel, a case against unknown persons was registered.The liquor contractor has also sent the footage to senior police officials, sources have said.Commenting on the matter, a senior police officer privy to the matter said the liquor contractor ran six liquor shops in the city and had alleged that he was paying Rs 96,000 a month in extortion money.Sources, however, who wished to remain anonymous, said that the men seen in the footage were from a specialised investigation wing of the police department. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Kuldeep Singh Chahal said, “We have received the complaint and the video clip. After identification of the accused we will take action against them.”The case was registered under Section 383 (extortion) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 13(1) of the Prevention of Corruption Act at the Sector 39 police station. Police officials said they are trying to verify whether the accused were actually cops or impersonators.A few days before, Ranjit Singh, the person in charge of the operations cell in the union territory, was accused of trying to extort Rs 2.5 lakh from a liquor contractor. The name of the contractor from Sector 21 had come up after 300 bottles of liquor were seized while being transported to Himachal Pradesh in a consignment of fish. Ranjit Singh had allegedly sought a bribe for not registering a case against the contractor, who informed senior police officials about the matter. Singh was transferred to police lines on Thursday and also faces a departmental inquiry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/liquor-contractor-alleges-extortion-by-policemen-in-chandigarh/story-Pyu6RuKVLN8V5KWQFavGKI.html
29-11-2020||Chandigarh||Broken boundary wall of Ludhiana City Centre site: Residents slam LIT, complain to local bodies dept, CMO||With foggy conditions on the cards in the coming days,residents of Shaheed Bhagat Singh (SBS) Nagar are living in fear of road mishaps, as the iron sheets which were installed to establish a boundary around the City Centre site have broken off. In a complaint forwarded to the local bodies department and chief minister’s office on Sunday, they slammed the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) for its failure to repair the temporary boundary.Residents said that accidents take place at the site every year due to foggy conditions. They added that cars drive into the dug up portion due to improper boundary and non-functional street lights.RTI activist Arvind Sharma, said, “LIT has not repaired the boundary walls in the last decade. Accidents are reported at the site every year. The city centre project has not been completed till now as LIT is still in a legal battle with Today Homes. But, residents are bearing the brunt of this.” A resident, Jaspal Takkar, said, “The iron sheets installed at the boundary have broken at many points. LIT has also failed to repair the street lights, which increases the possibility of untoward incidents. Several complaints have been submitted with the local officials and higher authorities of local bodies department. But, no one is paying heed to the problem.” Sharma said that LIT’s failure to remove the garbage near Sunet railway crossing is also causing a nuisance in the area. “Garbage is strewn over a stretch of one kilometre along the road and authorities do not even bother to clear it. Foul smell spreads in Blocks D, E G and H of SBS nagar. The carcasses of two stray cattle which met with a train accident on Sunday are also lying there,” he said. LIT executive engineer, Buta Ram, said, “LIT cannot establish a wall around the City Centre site as we are still in a legal fight with Today homes in Delhi High Court. Minor repairs are done to avoid any untoward incidents and I will look into the recent complaint. Also, I will direct the staff to get the street lights repaired.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/broken-boundary-wall-of-ludhiana-city-centre-site-residents-slam-lit-complain-to-local-bodies-dept-cmo/story-TYCzpIacmCQJcTqxh5MA7N.html
29-11-2020||Chandigarh||Speed up takeover of resumed properties, Chandigarh adviser tells local agencies||The Chandigarh Housing Board, estate office and municipal corporation are set to start a drive, likely within a week, to take possession of hundreds of properties for which resumption orders have been issued for years.Taking serious note of the failure of the three agencies to take possession of properties even several years after resumption proceedings have been upheld, UT adviser Manoj Parida has instructed them to act promptly. They will also take over those properties for which cases are pending in appeal but there is no stay on resumption order.“I have given instructions to the MC, CHB and estate office to start a drive in a week’s time to take possession of properties where resumption proceedings have been completed,” said Parida. The three agencies have been instructed to compile an updated list of such properties, and the process for their digital tracking will also be initiated once the drive kicks off. The development comes after Parida called a meeting on the issue last week. Agency secretaries, heads and law officers were present. “It came to my knowledge that there are a large number of properties, as of now estimated to be around 700-800, in which possession is yet to be taken. It is not correct if the government doesn’t take possession even after winning the legal case for resumption,” said the adviser. He will take a review meeting of the drive after a week and also take account of the exact properties that have to be taken over. Reasons for delay aplentyThe MC, CHB and estate office are three agencies in the city that are custodians of properties – residential, commercial and institutional. Properties that stand resumed include shop-cum-flats, shop-cum-offices, booths and residential accommodations.There are some that are involved in legal tangles since as far back as 1976.In many of these cases, resumption notices have been issued on account of building violations, misuse of property or non-payment of lease amounts.The estate office issues orders for resuming 10-15 sites every year. In the MC’s case, in its rehabilitation colonies, more than 90% of sites have been transferred on general power of attorney in violation of rules. In many of these cases, resumption orders have been issued, but possession hasn’t been taken yet. “There are instances where people who have to be evicted from government properties continue to remain in occupation due to corruption at lower levels of the department. There are also cases of political pressure on officials,” said an MC official, requesting anonymity. In the meeting, too, the adviser enquired as to why the three agencies have failed to the take possession and allowed people to occupy government properties illegally. The work pressure on subdivisional magistrates (SDM) was cited as one of the reasons for non-implementation of resumption orders, said an official who attended the meeting. “With high work load on SDMs, we are now planning to delegate the power of taking possession to officials in the MC too,” said Parida. An officer of the rank of additional or joint commissioner is likely to be entrusted with it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/speed-up-takeover-of-resumed-properties-chandigarh-adviser-tells-local-agencies/story-vKmIRzt1LsM0LlgLGzPLFI.html
29-11-2020||City||Ludhiana MC to rope in councillors, MLAs to replicate Indore model of cleanliness||With an aim to implement the Indore model of solid waste management in the city ahead of Swachh Survekshan-2021, the municipal corporation (MC) committee members who visited Indore, gave a presentation to cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, mayor Balkar Sandhu and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal at mayor’s camp office on Sunday.It was decided to rope in all party councillors and work towards implementing Indore’s model of solid waste management. Soon, the committee members will also give a presentation to councillors and MLAs so that a cleanliness drive could be initiated in their respective wards. A committee has been formed to look into the working of the A2Z company and the informal sector involved in door-to-door collection of garbage and waste management in the city. The civic body has also been told to implement a ban on plastic carry bags and spread awareness regarding the same.Ashu said, “Our focus is on solid waste management and we need to involve the public and councillors so that combined efforts can be done to promote cleanliness. The civic body will also be looking into the contracts of the A2Z company so that all the aspects can be covered. Awareness drives/training will also be organised for the informal sector to promote waste segregation at source.”Earlier in October, the MC delegation comprising councillors Parvinder Lapran, Baljinder Bunti, Pankaj Kaka and councillor Sunita Rani’s son Deepak Sharma and civic body officials including MC secretary Jasdev Sekhon and senior assistant engineer Harpal Aujla went on a three-day visit to Indore to study its solid waste management.Ludhiana secured 34th rank among 47 cities with over 10 lakh population in Swachh Survekshan 2020, while Indore stood at the first position for the fourth consecutive year.Presentation on beautification of Buddha NullahDirector, Ludhiana Smart City Limited, Sanjay Goel and members of NGO Sambhav, Rahul Verma also gave a presentation regarding developing green belts at the banks of Buddha Nullah and improving road infrastructure to deal with traffic chaos.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mc-to-rope-in-councillors-mlas-to-replicate-indore-model-of-cleanliness/story-stDFYI4tZl0wwQSNHvfIpI.html
29-11-2020||Chandigarh||ETT recruitment exam: Two women with same roll number booked for cheating in Ludhiana||Two women were booked for cheating and personation on Sunday after they attempted to appear for the elementary training teachers (ETT) recruitment exam using the same roll number.The accused have been identified as Kiran Rani, a resident of Jalalbad, and Asha Rani of Faridkot. They are cousins.The incident was reported from Senior Secondary Residential School for Meritorious students, near Rose Garden, where the exam was being conducted for 301 candidates. The exam started at 10am. The school authorities said that a candidate, Kiran Rani, reported at 10.10 am, and she had the same roll number as another candidate with the same name. The invigilator checked the roll number and Aadhar cards of both students and took them to the school principal to resolve the matter. They contacted the Guru Nanak Dev University officials and were told to let both applicants appear for the test. District education officer, secondary, Swaranjit Kaur, was inspecting the centre at 10.30am. When she was told about the incident, she informed the state education department, who directed the officials to get a FIR lodged against the two women. A case has been registered at Division Number 8 police station under Sections 419 , 420 and 120 B of Indian Penal Code.Jarnail Singh, station house officer at Division Number 8 police station, said, “We have asked both candidates to join the investigation.”As many as 3,238 candidates appeared for the ETT recruitment examination at 11 centres in the city. A total of 3,629 candidates had applied. DEO Swaranjit Kaur inspected three centres- Government Senior Secondary School, Multipurpose; Government Senior Secondary School, Sekhewal, and Senior Secondary Residential School for Meritorious Students.  Thermal screening was done at all the examination centres and foot-operated hand sanitiser dispensers were installed at the entry gates. Several candidates reached the examination centres with their mobile phones and were not allowed to carry them inside the examination rooms. A candidate, Jaswant Singh, said, “I was not aware that candidates cannot carry mobile phones. When I requested the school principal, he refused to keep mobile phone in his custody. Then, I handed it over to the police who were deputed outside the centre.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ett-recruitment-exam-two-women-with-same-roll-number-booked-for-cheating-in-ludhiana/story-Xq2VrmU2EiHYhr2fRJ0OKK.html
29-11-2020||City||CAT exam: Students line up outside exam centre in Ludhiana, many flout Covid safety norms||As many as 600 candidates appeared for the Common Admission Test (CAT) in the district on Sunday. Students lined up outside Satnam Infosol on Threeke Road, which is the only exam centre, accompanied by their parents, and many were found disregarding Covid safety norms.The exam was held in three sessions — the first session started at 8.30 am, the second at 12.30 pm and the last session began at 4.30 pm.Candidates appearing for the examination in the first slot reached the examination centre at 7.30 am. The staff was seen directing candidates to maintain social distancing; however, long queues were witnessed outside the centre.Candidates were told to stand at a distance of 2 feet from each other at the entrance, but many were found disregarding the safety norms. Parents had also made a beeline outside the examination centre but were later asked to go home to avoid crowding.Staff was deployed to check the admit card and conduct thermal screening at the entry gate. Foot-operated sanitisers were kept at different points so that candidates could frequently sanitise their hands.The majority of the aspirants who appeared in the CAT exam found the data interpretation and logical reasoning (DILR) tricky. The paper comprised 72 questions (26 questions each in quantitative aptitude (QA), verbal ability and reading comprehension (VARC) and 24 questions in DILR. Candidates were given 40 minutes for answering questions under each section.Last year, three hours’ time was allotted to candidates to attempt 100 questions but this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the authorities reduced the timing and number of questions.Teachers of coaching institutes said all three sections were tougher than last year’s paper. An aspirant Ritvik Dhawan, said, “I appeared in 12.30 pm slot and found the data interpretation and logical reasoning section tough. It was a task to complete the paper in two hours, but I expect to score well.”Another aspirant, Sunita Sharma, said, “In the allotted two hours’ time, I was not able to complete the paper. It was a difficult paper overall, but the second section DILR was tricky and time consuming.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cat-exam-students-line-up-outside-exam-centre-in-ludhiana-many-flout-covid-safety-norms/story-QjrudpM7fv4p85SlxVIy6I.html
29-11-2020||Jaipur||Alliance Air delays flight to allow ‘retrieved organs to save 4 lives’||Air India’s subsidiary company Alliance Air on Saturday delayed one of its flights to Delhi from Jaipur by half an hour as it waited for “retrieved organs donated by a woman to save four lives.” The retrieved organs along with a team of doctors and paramedics staff were to be flown to the national capital, the airline said on Sunday. “The retrieved organs to be transported consisted of 2 lungs, 1 liver, and 1 kidney and were urgently needed at Delhi to save 4 lives. Collaborated efforts of Rajasthan Chief Minister’s office, State Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation (SOTTO), Air India, Alliance Air, Central Industrial Security Force, and Jaipur airport authorities for this humanitarian cause helped in saving 4 lives,” Alliance Air said.Pilots and crew members of the aircraft have announced about the reality of flight delayed that a team of doctor is coming to take the flight and they are running late with live organ, “passengers on the flight came to know about the reason of flight delay, they waited patiently for the organs to arrive at the airport. The airline thanked all the passengers for their support,” Alliance Air stated.The organ harvesting surgery performed at a private hospital in Jaipur was a complicated one involving retrieval of lungs, kidney, and liver and hence was time taking, the airline said,The retrieved organs needed to reach Delhi soon after harvesting, said the airline.On arriving at the airport, the retrieved organs were rushed through the security check-in by Alliance Air ground staff. The flight then took off at 21:28 hours with the harvested organs, it said.“I look forward to leading Alliance Air and take it to greater glory and enhanced regional connectivity, through safe and efficient operations, passionate hard work, clear focus, meeting the goals of the business and corporate social responsibility through a true ‘alliance’ of hearts and divine energy with teamwork and faith in God,” said Mrs Harpreet A De Singh, CEO, Alliance Air.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/alliance-air-delays-flight-to-allow-retrieved-organs-to-save-4-lives/story-D2hTkvC7b0LDzpokg7lqDK.html
29-11-2020||Gurugram||Daily cases below 500 after over three weeks||The district on Sunday reported 479 new Covid-19 cases, the lowest number of daily new infections in over three weeks. Gurugram had previously reported 460 new infections on November 3, following which the number of new daily infections has remained consistently above 500 cases per day. Gurugram’s total tally of Covid-19 cases now stands at 49,098.The health department tested a total of 56,007 samples for Covid-19 this past week, the highest seven-day aggregate since the beginning of the outbreak. The spurt in testing marks a 51% increase from the 37,000-odd samples tested last week, and resulted in a dip in the weekly test-positivity rate (TPR) — the ratio of positive samples to total samples tested — from 11.5% to 7% in the intervals ending on November 22 and 29. This is the lowest in at least six weeks.Health department officials were reluctant to comment on whether the district’s third wave of infections, which began with the onset of winter in mid-October, is waning. They, however, said that the numbers present a hopeful trend. “Sunday was the first day that we reported less than 500 cases. And despite a substantial increase in testing over the past week, we are reporting fewer cases than in mid-November. The growth rate is abating but the decline in new daily cases will reduce gradually,” said Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme’s district surveillance officer, Gurugram.The number of active cases, however, has gone up, currently at 6,160 patients, from 5,693 active cases a week ago. Of the currently active cases, 391 patients are hospitalised (down from 422 a week ago), while 5,757 patients are under home isolation (up from 2,264 a week ago). Another 12 patients (up from 10 a week ago) are under observation at district Covid care centres. Gurugram also reported five Covid-related deaths on Sunday, taking the total mortality count to 288.Of the 367 beds in intensive care units (ICU) currently reserved for Covid-19 treatment across 42 hospitals in the city, 201 are currently occupied. This also includes 253 ventilator beds, of which 81 are presently occupied. In addition, the district has another 2,633 general hospitals beds currently reserved for Covid-19, of which 625 are occupied. However, at least 425 Covid-19 patients currently hospitalised in the city for treatment of Covid-19 are not residents of Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/daily-cases-below-500-after-over-three-weeks/story-VD3vvjUj5gZAHuTI9kAhmK.html
29-11-2020||Gurugram||Teachers concerned over academic session disruptions||With schools set to remain shut till the first week of December, teachers have raised concerns over its adverse impact on the learning process, and said that assessing and evaluating students’ progress through online classes is becoming difficult.Haryana home minister Anil Vij on Saturday had said that schools in the state will remain shut for 10 more days in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Previously, the state education department had ordered the closure of all government and private schools in Haryana till November 30 as Covid-19 cases among school students started to spike, after physical sessions for classes 9 to 12 had resumed on November 2.Suman Sharma, principal of Government Model Senior Secondary School in Sector 4/7, said that teachers had expressed concerns about the closure of schools at a time when the syllabus was nearing the end. “This period is very crucial for students in classes 10 and 12. This session will not be declared as a zero session and board exams will definitely take place. While we are conducting the lessons and preparations from our end, there is no way to understand how much students are grasping. We have also noticed that students are losing interest and not responding to calls as they did during the earlier months of the lockdown,” said Sharma.She said that teachers are worried about poor results due to the disruption in lessons. “Usually, written practice sessions are conducted during this time of the year, ahead of the exams. If students were visiting school, we would have motivated them to take the exams seriously and prepare accordingly. While the bright students are taking an interest, we fear that slow learners might not be able to perform well,” said Sharma.She said that the school had planned to conduct mock exams and that the closure has forced them to look for online alternatives.Manjubala Bhardwaj, who teaches English to class 11, said that some students were not actively involved due to technological problems. “Some students have been facing access issues due to the lack of smartphones at home. They are facing a loss,” said Bhardwaj.She said that physical classroom sessions would have helped in keeping students motivated. “Every year, we provide additional hand-holding support to students through multiple revisions and tests. Replicating the same online is not always possible. We are in a precarious situation since both, health and studies, are important,” said Bhardwaj.Shyam Raghav, the principal of Government Senior Secondary School, Bhondsi, said that his staff members remain in favour of opening schools, while taking precautionary measures. “Teachers are devoted to lessons and worried about the impact on results. The academic year is nearing the end and even students are getting fed up now. Students were motivated during physical classroom sessions due to a competitive spirit but with individual online learning, slow learners might fall behind,” said Raghav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/teachers-concerned-over-academic-session-disruptions/story-R5taEmEAMVXrEgsjwzv2cJ.html
29-11-2020||Gurugram||City shivers at 7.5 degrees Celsius; air quality drops further||The city recorded its lowest minimum temperature of this season at 7.5 degrees Celsius on Sunday — three degrees below the previous day’s minimum temperature of 10.5 degrees Celsius. Sunday’s minimum temperature was also three degrees below the normal for this time of the year. The city recorded a maximum temperature of 24.5 degrees Celsius on Sunday. IMD officials on Sunday said that below-normal minimum temperatures are likely over most subdivisions of north, northwest, central and few subdivisions over east India during the winter season — December to February — this time. As per the IMD’s weekly forecast, the maximum temperature will hover around 25 degrees Celsius while the minimum temperature is expected to stay at 9 degrees on Monday. As per the weekly forecast, clear skies will prevail on Monday. The city’s air quality stayed in the “poor” category for the second consecutive day on Sunday, recording a reading of 242 on the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) daily air quality index (AQI) bulletin — a fall from Saturday’s AQI reading of 204. Experts attributed the deterioration to slow wind speeds due to which pollutants couldn’t be dispersed. The level of ultrafine particulate matter having a diameter of 2.5 microns or less (PM 2.5) — the city’s primary pollutant — also increased and was recorded at 143.9 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m3) on Sunday, as per the data by CPCB’s air quality monitor at Vikas Sadan in Sector 11. The concentration of PM2.5 pollutants on the previous day stood at 109 ug/m3. According to the early air quality warning system for the National Capital Region (NCR), the air quality is likely to remain in the very poor category on Monday and Tuesday owing to unfavourable meteorological conditions for the dispersal of pollutants. In the national Capital, air quality also deteriorated as a consequence of a marginal increase in farm fires in neighbouring states and slower winds over the region, government agencies said.As per the CPCB, the AQI for Delhi was recorded at 256 on Sunday, up from 231 the previous day, both categorised as “poor”. Sachin Panwar, a Gurugram-based independent air quality scientist, said that the air quality had deteriorated on account of slow winds due to which pollutants couldn’t be dispersed. He said that with falling temperature in the morning hours and thermal inversion, the air quality is expected to deteriorate further as the temperature falls. “As winter sets in, the morning temperature will fall day by day. Right now, since the presence of fog is not significant; the air quality is still better. Once the fog starts setting in, air quality will become poorer due to greater accumulation of pollutants,” said Panwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/city-shivers-at-7-5-degrees-celsius-air-quality-drops-further/story-ZlVCVzi1YTUulID7S8rxGO.html
29-11-2020||Gurugram||21-year-old man out of bail held for shooting at his friend||A 21-year-old man out on bail during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic was arrested on Saturday night from Manesar for allegedly shooting at his friend, following a squabble over liquor, said the police. The suspect has been identified as one Aftab Ahmad, alias Raja, a resident of Sector 9.The police said Raja, along with three of his friends, were having drinks in the Manesar area on Saturday evening, when an altercation broke out among them. KK Rao, commissioner of police, said that four of them resolved the issue and left for their respective homes. “The incident took place on late Saturday evening, when one of his friends, Monu alias Sunil, a resident of Devi Lal Colony, was on his way home with another friend. Raja, along with a friend, came on a speeding motorbike from behind and shot at him. A bullet hit in his stomach and he fell from the motorbike,” he said Rao said the victim was rushed to Civil Hospital in Sector 10 and later was referred to Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi after his condition was reported critical. The police said the victim’s friend informed the police and the probe was handed over to the crime investigation unit. The team led by inspector Amit Kumar based on technical and human intelligence arrested Raja.The police said an inebriated Raja shot at his friend and fled from the spot. He was arrested for attempt to murder and was produced before the judicial magistrate on Sunday and was remanded in police custody for two days. The victim and suspect lived in same colony and would often be seen together, said the police. There are more than a dozen cases registered against Raja for murder, attempt to murder, violation of provisions under the Arms Act and assault, said the police. According to the police, on Saturday evening, Raja had an altercation with the victim and threatened him for life. A squabble ensued, and later Raja shot at the victim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/21-year-old-man-out-of-bail-held-for-shooting-at-his-friend/story-T8OOWq9pIcISseUuPb9C4O.html
29-11-2020||Gurugram||CM Manohar Lal Khattar oversees expansion of Civil Hospital building||Chief minister(CM) Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday inspected the premises of Government Senior Secondary School (Boys) near Sadar Bazar, the land of which is being used for the expansion of the adjoining Civil Hospital.Khattar directed the district authorities to start the construction work of the new hospital building at the earliest as the project has been pending for the last two years. He also directed that the process of transfer of land from the government school for the expansion of the hospital should be expedited. The state government has proposed to increase the capacity of the old Civil Hospital to 500 beds, for which some part of the land belonging to the government school is supposed to be transferred from the education department to the health department.The CM also asked the district administration to ensure that the old building of the civil hospital is demolished and a tender is floated by the PWD for the same by the next month. He directed that a wall should be constructed between the school and the hospital and the work should be completed before the schools reopen next month. The CM also asked the health authorities to shift their office to another designated area to facilitate the expansion of the hospital. Dr. Virendra Yadav, district civil surgeon, said that the work of shifting the office of the civil surgeon in the old Civil Hospital building has started. Therefore, the entire space can be made available for the public works department(PWD) for construction of the new hospital building.Yadav said that after demolishing the old building, the land of the school will be transferred so that a modern and well equipped hospital building having a capacity of 500 beds can come up.Yadav also said that they will be soon shifting to CMO’s office in Sector 38. The CT Scan and MRI centre will be shifted to Sector 10 hospital,” he said. Captain (retd) Indu Bokan, district education officer, said that the classes being taken in the school building will be shifted to the government school at Sukhrali. She also informed that even after the transfer of school land for the expansion of the hospital building, the school will have enough space left for holding classes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/cm-manohar-lal-khattar-oversees-expansion-of-civil-hospital-building/story-lRgUuqgRmZeNLzHi8LJMoJ.html
29-11-2020||City||Fake toll slip racket: Gang sold slips costing ₹100 for ₹10||Two days after a gang selling fake toll slips in Gurugram was busted, the police said they have identified the gang members and have recovered the details of their modus operandi.Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that suspects, who earlier used to sell fake monthly passes, had started printing and selling fake toll slips from March this year. However, soon afterward, the lockdown was announced and they could not earn well. “They used to sell at least 50 toll slips per day since the last two months and wanted to sell at least 500 slips a day for different toll plazas in Haryana and Delhi,” he said.The police said they have identified more than five people involved in selling fake toll slips. They used to sell each slip of ₹100 at a cost of ₹10.The incident came to light on Thursday night when a 31-year-old driver from Punjab was stopped while trying to cross the Kherki Daula toll plaza around 9.30pm using a fake toll slip. The toll operator checked the slip and found the series to be different. The operator informed his seniors, who called the police and handed over the driver to him.The police said the sale of fake toll slips is not new, and there have been multiple cases in the last four years, where more than 30 people have been arrested for similar crimes.Sangwan said that earlier, the gang used to sell monthly passes instead of daily toll slips and were caught. Later, they shifted to selling daily toll slips.According to the police, the gang had sold fake passes for several months and is believed to have duped the toll operator of crores of rupees. The company is yet to verify the total number of forged slips sold to commuters.The kingpin of the gang, Jitender, who was arrested on Saturday revealed that he had bought a printer for ₹6,500 and he, along with his friends, Tejinder and Jeetu, started printing and selling slips to drivers from March this year. Although, the drivers knew about this forgery and they used to charge full reimbursement from the companies they drove for.The police said they received a complaint from MEP Infrastructure Developers, the contractor for collecting municipal toll, alleging that a driver was trying to pass through with a fake slip.The police said MEP officials had also found similar fake slips when they had, randomly, stopped three cars to check their slips. They found the slips to be duplicate and confirmed the same by checking their serial numbers. A case under sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forging document), and 120B (conspiracy) of the IPC was registered at Udyog Vihar police station on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fake-toll-slip-racket-gang-sold-slips-costing-100-for-10/story-ZjIauml4kKOk6ZwotHhiuJ.html
29-11-2020||Gurugram||42-year-old man dies by suicide in Pataudi||A 42-year-old man from Bhora Kalan village in Pataudi died by suicide on Friday after being allegedly harassed by a woman who had extorted money from him and was putting pressure on him to pay more, said the police. According to the police, the victim had consumed poison and, when his situation deteriorated, he informed his family members, who rushed him to a private hospital. He died while undergoing treatment. A single-page, handwritten suicide note was recovered from his pocket, in which he blamed the woman for his death, the police said. According to the police, the deceased man used to work as a driver for a bank and lived with his wife and two children in the village. Three days ago, he had informed his brother that a woman was harassing him and was asking for money. Pankhuri Yadav, assistant commissioner of police, said that the family had no clue of the woman and had never met her. “The man had left behind a suicide note alleging that a woman was forcing him to commit suicide. We are yet to identify the suspect and have started investigating the case,” she said. The police said the deceased was suspecting that if he did not pay more money, then the woman would book him in a false rape case. Fearing social stigma, he ended his life, said the police. “My brother was depressed for last few days. He had stopped eating and talking to anyone. On Friday, he narrated his ordeal to me and I tried to console him. However, by that time, he had already consumed poison,” said bother of the deceased. A case under Section 306 (abetment of suicide) was registered at Bilaspur police station on Friday late evening. The police has taken the call detail records of the deceased and are trying to identify the suspect. The exact amount of money paid to the woman is yet to be conformed but the family is suspecting that the woman had probably extracted more than ₹10 lakh, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/42-year-old-man-dies-by-suicide-in-pataudi/story-HMlIqfPdLwaiA8C4HpwLOM.html
29-11-2020||Delhi||DRDO adds 500 ICU beds to Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Covid Hospital in Delhi||With Covid-19 cases surging in the national capital, the Defence Research & Development Organisation (DRDO) has added 500 more ICU (Intensive Care Unit) beds to the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Covid Hospital in Delhi.On the advice of Union Government, in view of the rising number of Covid cases in Delhi NCR, all the beds are provided with oxygen support, said Defence Ministry.Director General Armed Forces Medical Services (DGAFMS), Lieutenant General Anup Banerji has been continuously monitoring the updating of the facility to meet the current upsurge and the information has been updated on Delhi Government portal, Defence Ministry added.Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Covid Hospital is DRDO’s 1000 bed facility, which was made operational on 5th July 2020 with a mandate to treat Covid-19 positive patients from Delhi and other states, Defence Ministry said.A total of 4907 new cases have been reported in Delhi on Sunday, out of 64186 tests conducted here. Meanwhile, 68 people lost their lives due to the deadly virus.The positivity rate stands at 7.64 per cent. The total number of 6,325 people have been recovered/ discharged/ migrated on Sunday.The death toll reached 9066, with case fatality rate at 1.6 per cent. However, the death rate based on last 10 days data stands at 1.83 per cent.A total number of 62,37,395 tests have been done so far in the national capital. The total number of 35, 091 cases are active in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/drdo-adds-500-icu-beds-to-sardar-vallabhbhai-patel-covid-hospital-in-delhi/story-R9p3EbD4ix0uUPNxe8jjtM.html
29-11-2020||Chandigarh||Covid: Parents still unwilling to send kids, say private schools in Chandigarh||Even as regular classes have resumed in the city’s government schools, private schools continue to take the classes online.The Independent Schools Association (ISA) had conducted a survey on when parents would be willing to send their kids to school and almost all of them refused to let their wards go out in November. Now, the association has sent another survey on the parents’ willingness to send the kids to school in December.ISA president HS Mamik said, “We have asked the parents if they want to send their kids to school by December 1 or December 10. If they still don’t agree, we will reconsider the proposition after Christmas.”Will open only if over 50% parents give consent Mamik added that although a few students were coming for doubt clearing to Vivek High School in Sector 38, where he is the chairman, the private schools will open only if over 50% of the parents were willing to give consent.The ISA had earlier conducted a survey in October among parents of kids studying in its 75 member private schools of the city: only 10-17% of the parents had given consent.ABS Sidhu, director-principal of Saupins School in Sector 32, said, “Parents are still unwilling to send the students to school. A few students would come for doubt clearing earlier, but have now stopped.”Meanwhile, private schools are considering taking offline practice exams for students of board classes. Speaking about this, principal of St Johns High School in Sector 26, Kavita Das, said, “Since the practicals for the board exams will be in written form, some parents had asked us to take written practice tests for the students. However, they are still not ready for classes to resume.”Principal of St Stephens School in Sector 45, Louis Lopez, said, “We are currently conducting practice pre-boards for Class 10 on the insistence of parents. Around 60 students, which is 30% of the strength, are coming for the exams while the rest take them online.”Director school education (DSE) Rubinderjit Singh Brar said as long as the exams weren’t mandatory and the students were coming to the school with the consent of the parents and followed all Covid protocols, the schools could take offline exams if they chose to.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-parents-still-unwilling-to-send-kids-say-private-schools-in-chandigarh/story-9ucdamIFOK4hwOkqgHTdVP.html
29-11-2020||City||Renaming Southall road after Guru Nanak cleared||The Ealing Council in west London on Friday announced the renaming of part of Havelock Road – named after Henry Havelock, general in the colonial army involved in suppressing the 1857 Uprising – as Guru Nanak Road following a public consultation.The name change will come into effect early in 2021 after some procedures are completed, but council officials said the announcement is a timely celebration ahead of Guru Nanak Jayanti on November 30. The Gurdwara Sri Guru Singh Sabha is located on Havelock Road.The move to rename the road was announced in June, after the ‘Black Lives Matter’ campaign led to a review of public spaces in London and elsewhere. The council’s cabinet decided on July 14 to celebrate and commemorate the founder of Sikhism, Guru Nanak.Consultation took place with residents and businesses directly impacted by the change, the Royal Mail and the emergency services. The council said decision to make the change has been taken in accordance with the Street Naming Protocol which confirms that any change proposal should “respect and balance cultural and historical identities, sensitivities, and heritage”.Labour MP from Ealing Southall, Virendra Sharma, hailed the council’s decision: “I welcome the decision by Ealing Council to finally rename Havelock Road - decolonising our streets. As the MP for Ealing Southall and a councillor for 25 years before that I have often been ashamed the names of empire still pervade our streets”.Councillor Kamaljit Dhindsa, Ealing cabinet member for business and community services, said the council’s diversity is its strength, adding: “we have to make sure that the places we live reflect that diversity through our street names and buildings.”Julian Bell, leader of Ealing Council, said: “The renaming of one of Ealing’s roads reflects the importance of celebrating the borough’s diversity and is a timely celebration of the birth of Guru Nanak on 30 November.”The Gurdwara Sri Guru Singh Sabha moved to its current location on Havelock Road in 1997, when it was inaugurated by Prince Charles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/renaming-southall-road-after-guru-nanak-cleared/story-hZdi3xWo2ajayHmXwxizVP.html
29-11-2020||Pune||Pune district reports 781 fresh Covid-19 cases, 25 deaths in 24 hours||The state health department on Sunday reported 781 fresh Covid-19 positive cases and 25 deaths in 24 hours in Pune district. The district has reported 3.52 lakh Covid-19 cases of which 3.25 lakh have recovered, 7,477 have been reported dead and 19,658 are active cases, undergoing treatment at hospitals or are in home isolation. Pune city reported 362 fresh Covid-19 cases taking the total count to 1,80,299, while 19 deaths took the death toll to 4,230. The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 182 fresh cases on Sunday taking the final count to 88,732. One reported death took the death toll in PCMC to 1,264. Pune rural reported 237 new cases taking the final count to 83,534 and five deaths took the death toll to 1,949, according to the state health department. As per the state health department report, 4,362 patients were discharged on Sunday taking the final count of such patients to over 16.80 lakh. The recovery rate in the state stands at 92.36 per cent. Also, 5,544 new cases in the state were reported on Sunday taking the total cases to over 18.20 lakh. In addition, 85 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state on Sunday taking the death toll to 48,136. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.59%. Of 1,08,04,422 laboratory samples, 18,20,059 have tested positive (16.85%) for Covid-19 till Sunday. Currently 5,26,555 people are in home quarantine and 6,814 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-district-reports-781-fresh-covid-19-cases-25-deaths-in-24-hours/story-j2jmr23sGg9AHEI0wZ4aPO.html
29-11-2020||Chandigarh||Man, 19, dies in Zirakpur after fall from balcony on to high voltage line||A 19-year-old man died on Sunday after falling from the balcony of Zirakpur’s Royal Park Resort Hotel on to a high voltage line while a colleague who tried to save him was injured. Police said Kamlesh Kumar from Mandi in Himachal Pradesh was a waiter at the hotel on the Chandigarh-Ambala highway. He was having lunch with his colleague Davinder Kumar when he slipped while trying to sit on the railing of a balcony and was electrocuted after falling on the high voltage line running below.Davinder, who tried to save Kamlesh, was also injured after coming in contact with the current. He was admitted to a private hospital where doctors said his condition had stabilised. Kamlesh’s body was later disentangled from the wires and brought down by power department personnel after the electricity supply was cut off. It has been kept at the Dera Bassi Civil Hospital for post mortem, said Zirakpur police station investigating official Rajesh Chauhan.Further action in the case would be taken once Kamlesh’s family arrived from Himachal, Chauhan said, adding that negligence on the part of the hotel owners would also be investigated. Drunk man falls to death from third floor in DhakoliA 38-year-old man died after falling from the third floor of a building in Zirakpur’s Dhakoli area on Saturday night. Police said he was under the influence of liquor.Identified as Ashwani Kumar, he was a taxi driver from Fazilka and had rented a place in Dhakoli. Police said the man hit the ground head first when he fell off the balcony, leading to excessive loss of blood. He was rushed to a local hospital, from where he was referred to Government Medical College and Hospital in Chandigarh, where he was declared brought dead. Ruling out foul play, police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-19-dies-in-zirakpur-after-fall-from-balcony-on-to-high-voltage-line/story-TO5jM5KcyGN5Ly5u6hmMDP.html
29-11-2020||Patna||Bihar revises Covid-19 guidelines, guests at weddings limited to 150||The state home department on Sunday modified its orders restraining the number of guests at marriage ceremonies and the scale of celebrations, days after it enforced a rigorous regime to check the rise in coronavirus spread. As per the latest order issued by the home department on Sunday, the guest limit of marriage parties has been raised to 150 from the previous limit of 100, including catering and other staff. Additionally, band party has been allowed to lead the marriage procession. The restrictions envisaged in the Covid-19 guidelines issued on November 26 was reviewed and amended by the emergency management group led by chief secretary Deepak Kumar. Additional chief secretary, home, Amir Subhani and divisional commissioner, Patna, Sanjay Agrawal were also present. Also read: Search teams locate debris of Navy’s MiG-29K in Arabian Sea, pilot still missingThe serious restrictions of the guest list at marriage function and performance of musical bands evoked widespread reactions. Some band groups and decorators in Patna city on Saturday took out a protest march against the government order to ban their performance during marriage processions. They claimed that the order would badly impact their earnings, which had already suffered a massive blow due to the pandemic. They claimed that the state government did not offer any relief to them, even though they struggled to sustain their families. In keeping with the continued spike in cases of Covid-19 infection in Bihar, the state home department had resorted to strict guidelines framed on the basis of the recent orders issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). Wearing of masks was made mandatory for marriage guests, while the host was assigned the responsibility for maintaining social distancing. The latest order, however, clarified that there would be no change in other guidelines issued on November 25. The guest list at the performance of last rite of departed souls remains capped at 25. Devotees have been asked to avoid taking bath in river Ganga during Kartik Purnima. Ailing persons and those above 60 and below 10 years of age have been barred from coming to the ghat for the holy dip.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-revises-covid-19-guidelines-guests-at-weddings-limited-to-150/story-9nrVtG4x8Kfs399eGnrAYI.html
29-11-2020||Chandigarh||November accounted for 52% of dengue cases in Chandigarh this year||The cases of dengue in the city have recently seen a spurt as 52% of the total 232 cases of the mosquito-borne viral disease reported so far came in the month of November alone. Till October 31, 121 dengue cases have been reported. The pattern of the last six years shows that dengue cases are unevenly reported throughout the year, and the cases begin to rise after September and reach a peak in November, to fall thereafter.This year, as many as 19 cases were reported in September followed by 89 cases in October. Last year, too, a similar trend was reported with 30 cases being reported in September followed by 82 and 124 in the months of October and November, respectively.Authorities are, however, hopeful that the number of cases reported in the city this year will be around 250, less than what was reported last year.“Since we are in the last leg of the year and cases in the month of December see a dip, the number will remain below 250 against the 286 reported last year. The cases would have been lesser if the employees involved in the fogging process would have visited the homes and checked for possible sources like water-filled containers. Even though there was stiff resistance, fogging was carried out in all possible manner especially in the vulnerable areas,” a senior officer of the UT health department’s Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme, wishing anonymity, said. Most of the cases were reported from Manimajra and Bapu Dham Colony, officials said.“The life-cycle of the mosquito which starts in the later part of August and September reaches the adult stage in November during which they bite the most. Additional reasons for the spike in cases in November are that conditions are most conducive inside the houses due to relatively high temperature,” the officer quoted above said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/november-accounted-for-52-of-dengue-cases-in-chandigarh-this-year/story-fwXbI4S2zbfRfoHARGxgQK.html
29-11-2020||Chandigarh||Sanitising tunnels, open langars planned for Gurpurab||Sanitising tunnels, social distancing and open langars (community meals) cooked and served with safety measures in place will be part of the celebrations for the 551st Prakash Utsav of Guru Nanak on Monday.“We have instructed gurdwaras to start langar between 12 noon to 12:30 pm to manage the rush better. Earlier the timings were from 1:30 pm to 2:00 pm during peak rush hours. Around 5,000 devotees can be expected at the big gurdwaras in the city,” said Tara Singh, president, Chandigarh Samuh Gurdwara Prabandhak Sangathan. Singh, who is also the chairman of the Sector 38 Gurdwara, said they were expecting a big turnout as they had received over 3,000 visitors over Diwali.Sanitising tunnel in Sector 8Bhupinder Singh, finance secretary of the Sector 8 Gurdwara, said an automatic sanitiser tunnel had been set up for visitors walking in. The langar hall there, however, will be closed and packaged food handed out to devotees.Open langarThis time, to prevent transmission of Covid-19 in closed halls, the Sector 34 Gurdwara will be serving food in an open ground close by. “We will put carpets in the park near the market since it is safer to seat people in open spaces,” said manager Amarjeet Singh.Food will also be served outdoors at the Sector 20 Gurdwara in its parking area, said its president Gurinder Bir Singh.Glass, fibreglass panelsFor the devotees to bow down before the Guru Granth Sahib, the Sector 19 Gurdwara will have a special polycarbonate sheet, which will be sanitised after 10 to 15 minute intervals, said the president of the religious place, Tejinder Pal Singh. Similarly, the Sector 8 Gurudwara will have a glass panel for the devotees, which will be sanitised frequently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sanitising-tunnels-open-langars-planned-for-gurpurab/story-dt0MPGZNcs6wsldWULFSAK.html
29-11-2020||Chandigarh||As supply improves, onion prices fall in Chandigarh||With the new crop ready in other states like Maharashtra, the supply of onions in the city has improved and the prices, which had gone as high as ₹75 per kilogram at the wholesale mandi, have now started to come down.The UT market committee on Sunday fixed the price at ₹45 per kg.Speaking about this, auction recorder of the Chandigarh wholesale mandi in Sector 26, Rashwinder Singh, said, “A new crop of onions is available in the market now. It is still early, but supply has started to improve. The monsoon-time price of ₹30 per kg is likely to return within a month if the situation prevails.”At present, the wholesale rates of onion are between ₹20-₹40 per kg depending on the quality. Meanwhile, the retail rate of onions charged by vendors varies between ₹50-₹60 per kg. Onions imported from Afghanistan have stopped coming to the market now.Apart from onions, new crops of other vegetables including tomatoes, potatoes, cauliflower, garlic, etc are also ready, due to which their prices have also gone down. Between November 15 and 29, the price of potatoes went from ₹45 per kg to ₹40; tomatoes went from ₹50 to ₹45 per kg.Locally grown peas and beans are popular and are being brought in bulk by the local farmers. The farmer agitation, however, is likely to affect the prices of vegetables like capsicum and ladyfinger, which come to the city partly from Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/as-supply-improves-onion-prices-fall-in-chandigarh/story-M5reyWUWzgDiTgCn11bgdN.html
29-11-2020||City||Postpone MC elections till Covid vaccine isn’t out: Panchkula RWAs||The representatives of various resident welfare associations (RWAs) in Panchkula want the forthcoming elections of the municipal corporation (MC) to be postponed till the vaccine for Covid-19 was not available in the market. The date of the elections has not been announced yet, but are expected by the end of next month or early 2021.SK Nayar, president of Citizen Welfare Association (CWA), said: “Because of the pandemic, the residents, especially senior citizens, are worried that they won’t be able to cast a vote. Hence, they want the MC elections, which are expected by the end of next month or by early 2021, to be postponed.”Nayar said that a meeting was also conducted on October 11 wherein representatives of 17 RWAs were present and majority of members were of the opinion that the polls should be postponed, at least till the vaccine was not available in the market.“The numbers of cases in the city are rising. The decision to postpone the polls for a period of another two to three months would be useful,” Nayar said, adding that “there seems to be very little scope of attendance, participation and percentage of voting.”The members of CWA have also written in this regard to state election commissioner Dalip Singh, Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar, DC Mukesh Ahuja and Panchkula MLA Gyan Chand Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/postpone-mc-elections-till-covid-vaccine-isn-t-out-panchkula-rwas/story-iqusnPxzFdLwhCUSxQVa0H.html
29-11-2020||Chandigarh||273 more test Covid +ve, 3 succumb in Chandigarh tricity area||Two Chandigarh residents and one from Mohali succumbed to Covid-19 on Sunday, while Panchkula reported no casualty for fourth consecutive day. At 113, Mohali recorded maximum fresh cases, followed by 96 in Chandigarh and 64 in Panchkula.The toll in Chandigarh has reached 276 with the death of a 57-year-old man from Sector 19 and a 70-year-old woman from Sector 35. With 69 patients being discharged, the number of those cured stands at 15,926 (91.8%). Of 17,342 cases reported so far, 1,140 remain active.In Mohali, 15,376 people have tested positive so far, of whom 277 have died. After 130 patients were discharged on Sunday, taking the total to 13,043 (84.8%), the number of active patients has come down to 2,056.Panchkula has recorded 8,679 cases, of which 521 are active. While 8,031 (92.5%) patients have been cured and discharged, 127 have succumbed to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/273-more-test-covid-ve-3-succumb-in-chandigarh-tricity-area/story-FTrnn5Wr6WjxencxUSbEqN.html
29-11-2020||Jaipur||Viral video: Gehlot calls Dotasra for discussion, BJP demands CM’s resignation||Cornered by the opposition after the ruling party MLA’s video went viral, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot will hold discussion with state party chief Govind Singh Dotasra on the issue on Monday, Congress leaders said. Meanwhile, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has demanded CM’s resignation. The alleged video of Mahendrajeet Singh Malviya, Congress MLA from Bagidora and a former minister, is doing the rounds on social media. The video purportedly shows Malviya saying, during a campaign for panchayat polls in Banswara, that each of the two BTP MLAs of Dungarpur received Rs 5 crore during the Rajya Sabha polls and Rs 5 crore each during the political crisis when former deputy CM Sachin Pilot rebelled against the Gehlot government. A senior Congress leader familiar with the development, said on condition of anonymity, that Gehlot has called Dotasra, who is currently on a visit to Sikar, for discussions. Apart from other organizational issues, the CM will be taking up the ongoing video issue with Dotasra. He added that the state in-charge and AICC general secretary Ajay Maken has already spoken with Gehlot on the issue. Also read: Farmers’ protest: Amarinder Singh questions Khattar’s Covid-19 concernsHitting at Gehlot, Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, in a series of tweets, demanded his resignation. Retweeting the video, he stated, “Gehlot government is playing with democratic values and mandate, and it is not hidden. Now, it is clear from the acceptance of the party’s senior MLA Mahendrajeet Singh Malviya in front of public that CM Ashok Gehlot has no right to continue on his post.” He said, “The trust vote obtained by the state government in the Legislative Assembly through the purchase and sale of MLAs was actually deceit with the public, similarly the victory of the Congress candidate in the Rajya Sabha election is also doubtful.” In another tweet, he said, Gehlot talked about herding, and simultaneously, on the other hand, created a chakravyuh (trap) of horse-trading, mislead the public and attacked the BJP to divert attention from his deceit. But now, all the secrets of this conspiracy are coming out themselves - the public is watching everything. Congress spokesperson Archana Sharma said the person who was involved in destabilising the state government has no moral authority to seek anyone’s resignation. The plot of toppling the government failed and now they are making baseless allegations, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/viral-video-gehlot-calls-dotasara-for-discussions-bjp-demands-cm-s-resignation/story-9vFu4s2xXAwgrhrRBGpc0M.html
29-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to have colder nights this winter||Nights and early mornings are likely to be chillier with minimum temperature dipping below normal in Chandigarh this winter, according to the seasonal outlook released for the northwest region by the India Meteorological Department (IMD). However, day temperatures in the city could be a degree above normal.Average minimum temperature from December to February in the city is expected to remain a notch or two below normal, said Surender Paul, director, IMD, Chandigarh. “The seasonal outlook is prepared on the basis of model simulations based on global weather. Furthermore, northerly flow of winds besides western disturbances are expected to keep the region cool,” he said.Meanwhile, just like Saturday, minimum temperature in Chandigarh (10.2°C) on Sunday was lower than that in Shimla (10.8°C). However, it went up from Saturday’s 8.7°C. Maximum temperature went down from 25.1°C to 23.3°C, owing to misty conditions. Even visibility dropped to 2,000 metre in the morning.In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain around 24-25°C and minimum temperature around 10-11°C. Mist and fog are likely to continue in morning and evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-have-colder-nights-this-winter/story-9rbWy3xHLtpy6Hphe9liLN.html
29-11-2020||City||Air India employee killed, colleague hurt as car plunges into gorge in Shimla||An Air India employee was killed and his colleague injured after their car plunged into a 100m deep gorge near Shimla in the wee hours of Sunday. The deceased has been identified as Vipin Kumar, a resident of Kandaghat in Solan district, while the injured is Suneet Kumar, a resident of Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh. Both are posted in Jubbarhatti.The mishap took place when they were on their way to Totu. The driver reportedly lost control of the vehicle near Jathiya Devi following which the car plunged into a gorge. Shimla superintendent of police Mohit Chawla confirmed the report and said police are conducting an investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/air-india-employee-killed-colleague-hurt-as-car-plunges-into-gorge-in-shimla/story-gtsaDrf1pSWD5EV3xohv8K.html
29-11-2020||City||Ludhiana police devise daily attendance system to tighten grip on history-sheeters||In a new strategy to keep a tab on history-sheeters, police have asked them to report to the nearest police station daily for attendance.There are 400 history-sheeters in the Ludhiana police’s inventory. They are facing trials in two or more cases of murder, attempt to murder, rape, drug peddling, robbery and snatching, among other crimes. Police also have another list of 2,800 proclaimed offenders (POs), who remain at large.According to police, at least 65% of undertrials and convicts return to crime after getting out of jail. As they pose threat to the law and order situation in the city, it was decided to start a daily attendance system to keep a track of their movement.Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal said the system was planned in July, but was delayed due to the Covid-19 outbreak. But, it will be implemented shortly.As part of the process, the munshi concerned will also be clicking photographs of the history-sheeters. Those who fail to report to the police station daily will be arrested as a preventive measure.During his visit to the city on Thursday, Punjab director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta had also asked the police chief to put in special efforts to arrest fugitives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-police-devise-daily-attendance-system-to-tighten-grip-on-history-sheeters/story-V9glLypz7qs77aSNGuWHnJ.html
29-11-2020||City||22-year-old Ludhiana woman abducted by Gujarat man, cousin||Police are on the lookout for a Gujarat man, who allegedly abducted a 22-year-old Ludhiana woman, with the help of her cousin. The accused have been identified as Mayank Aggarawal and Meena of Valsad, Gujarat.The victim’s brother, Parminder Singh of Dugri, told the police that Meena had recommended Mayank as a matrimonial match for his sister, Kajal. But, the alliance fell through. On November 16, Kajal went to the market and never returned. Suspecting that Mayank abducted her with the help of Meena, Parminder filed a police complaint.“Following investigation, Mayank’s mobile phone location was traced to Ludhiana on November 16. A police team has been despatched for Gujarat, as he may have taken the woman there,” said inspector Surinder Chopra, SHO, Dugri police station.A case under Section 346 (wrongful confinement in secret) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against Mayank and Meena.Probe launched into man’s disappearance one year agoIn another case, the police have booked unidentified accused for allegedly kidnapping a 39-year-old man, one year after his disappearance.The case was registered on the complaint of Harcharan Singh of Amarpura. Harcharan stated that his brother, Swarn Singh, had left for Mata Chintapurni in Himachal Pradesh on October 3, 2019, but did not return. For one year, they kept searching for him, but to no avail.ASI Des Raj, who is investigating the case, said the family suspected that someone was holding Swarn captive, following which an FIR was lodged and an investigation had been started.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/22-year-old-ludhiana-woman-abducted-by-gujarat-man-cousin/story-PysbCQ968z8QoJAVOgcNeO.html
29-11-2020||Kolkata||Abhishek Banerjee takes on PM Modi and BJP on national security, personal remarks||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) used the Pulwama terror attack as an election issue to retain power in 2019 but has done nothing to free the territory China captured in Ladakh six months ago, Lok Sabha member and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee alleged at a huge public rally at his constituency, Diamond Harbour, on Sunday afternoon. This was his first public meeting in eight months. Taking an aggressive stance, he declared the launch of his election campaign for the coming assembly polls. “The government has not disclosed how much territory has been occupied by China. In fact, the Prime Minister says there is no such occupation while the Union defence minister claims otherwise. Who is fooling the people? We want China to be given a befitting reply but all Modi has done is ban some Chinese apps. How long do you plan to carry on with this politics with your false patriotism? Will you free this territory before the next election?” said Banerjee. He is also the president of the youth front of the Trinamool Congress (TMC). “We want India to give a befitting reply to any country that endangers her sovereignty, be it Pakistan, China, Nepal or Bangladesh. But why is the government silent for six months although China has occupied our territory in Ladakh? Do the lives of our soldiers who died in Galwan have no value?” Banerjee questioned. Also read: PM Modi to have drone killer as part of his security detailIn recent months, Banerjee has been singled out and targeted by state and central leaders of the BJP. In his speech, Banerjee dared PM Modi and other BJP leaders to take his name instead of referring to him as bhaipo (nephew in Bengal) or bhatija (nephew in Hindi) in their public speeches. “At his rally at Diamond Harbour before the last election, Modi said ‘bhatija’ will lose the limelight. I dare Modi and BJP leaders of all ranks to take my name. Neither the Prime Minister nor the others have that courage. Every time they did it, I dragged them to the high court and rubbed their noses on the ground. That’s why they are afraid of taking my name these days,” said Banerjee.“I am not afraid of taking names. I am boldly saying Amit Shah, Kailash Vijayvargiya, Amit Malviya, Sunil Deodhar and the others are outsiders. I am saying Dilip Ghosh (state BJP president) is a ruffian and a mafia. I am saying Vijayvargiya’s son Akash is a ruffian,” said Banerjee. Reacting to this, Vijayvargiya said, “Banerjee has been shaken by the raids the income tax department and the Central Bureau of Investigation is carrying out against a coal mafia don close to him. He has lost balance. I don’t want to react to this.”Dilip Ghosh, on the other hand, said, “If he says I am a ruffian so be it. I am a ruffian. Stop me if you can. It is my time now. The TMC has tortured people and deprived them these years.”At the rally, Banerjee attacked the BJP on the issue of development as well.“We can show with statistics that the TMC government in Bengal has performed much better than the BJP government at the Centre in several fields. I dare the BJP to send any Central minister or any number of leaders to sit for a debate with me on a live television show. I will not show my face if I cannot back our claim with data. Why is your politics based on religion and not development?” said Banerjee. Talking at length on the development projects of the state government, Banerjee said, “TMC is a party of the people. Mamata Banerjee has made a lot of sacrifices and so have you (the workers). She is the sun. You (the opposition) will burn if you try to touch her,” said Banerjee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/abhishek-banerjee-takes-on-pm-modi-and-bjp-on-national-security-personal-remarks/story-jMMHsiDgIrjneMr1pPzWvO.html
29-11-2020||Bhopal||Farmers in Madhya Pradesh dump guavas in garbage vehicle as prices crash||A video showing a group of farmers dumping freshly-harvested guavas into a civic garbage collection vehicle here has gone viral on social media, with the experts saying that a bumper crop of the fruit this year has resulted in its prices falling.The wholesale prices of this vitamin C-rich fruit at Devi Ahilya Bai Holkar Fruit and Vegetable Market in Indore currently ranges between Rs 4 and Rs 10 per kilo, sources in the market said on Sunday.Farm sector experts said the prices of guava have nosedived due to its abundant crop, which is ultimately causing losses to the cultivators.Due to the falling prices, disappointed farmers are leaving behind the fruits in the market after finding that they are not getting enough returns.The farmers know that transporting the fruits back was not beneficial due to the costs involved, they added.Talking to PTI, Rajesh Patel, who grows this fruit in Madhya Pradesh’s Ratlam district, said, “The bumper guava harvest in Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra and other states has sent its prices crashing.” The wholesale market of guava in Delhi, which supplies this fruit to the northern part of the country, has been hit hard due to the coronavirus situation there, he said.Country guavas perish in three-four day after being plucked, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/farmers-in-madhya-pradesh-dump-guavas-in-garbage-vehicle-as-prices-crash/story-137s7jmlV3exelLfStR9PN.html
29-11-2020||Chandigarh||Khattar tells sportspersons to start preparing for Khelo India-2021||Haryana chief minister (CM) Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday said over 12,000 sportspersons from across the country will participate in 20 different events during the Khelo India Games-2021 to be held at Panchkula. Speaking after inaugurating a synthetic track, constructed at a cost of ₹4.65 crore, at Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar, Khattar called upon the sportspersons to start preparing for the Khelo India event so that they can perform well. The CM said the Khelo India programme is being run for sportspersons up to the age of 19, and it helps sportspersons to make their mark at the national and international level by practicing in their teens. “These competitions are usually held in November or December under Khelo India, but this time it was not possible due to Covid-19 pandemic. Therefore, Haryana will host these games in the coming year,” said Khattar, who also inaugurated the International Scientists’ Hostel in the university. Haryana assembly deputy speaker Ranbir Gangwa, Hisar MLA Dr Kamal Gupta and Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University vice-chancellor Professor Samar Singh were among others present on this occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/khattar-tells-sportspersons-to-start-preparing-for-khelo-india-2021/story-shVrfhelIOKfhdqykdX3nM.html
29-11-2020||Pune||At Serum, Modi discusses vaccine production, ramping up capacity||Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his visit to the Serum Institute of India (SII) on Saturday reviewed various aspects related to the Covishield vaccine being produced at the Pune-based firm. After his visit, PM Modi tweeted, “Had a good interaction with the team at Serum Institute of India. They shared details about their progress so far on how they plan to further ramp up vaccine manufacturing. Also, took a look at their manufacturing facility.” Modi landed at SII’s Hadapsar campus at 4:45 pm via a special helicopter from Pune’s Lohegaon airport where he arrived from Hyderabad. At SII, Modi inspected various facilities and interacted with Adar Poonawalla, chief executive officer, SII, along with his father Cyrus and other officials. Modi spent an hour at SII interacting with the officials inside a conference room. His Pune visit was a part of a three-city tour to review the status of vaccine development in India. Earlier in the day, Prime Minister arrived at Ahmedabad’s Zydus Biotech Park after which he visited Bharat Biotech in Hyderabad before arriving at Serum. “PM Narendra Modi is extremely knowledgeable on vaccines and vaccine production. We were amazed at what he already knew. There was very little to explain to him, except for going into detail on different variable vaccines and the challenges that we may face ahead in terms of regulators,” said Poonawalla. Pune-based Serum institute of India (SII), the world’s largest vaccine maker, has signed an agreement to manufacture the vaccine developed by the Jenner Institute of Oxford University in collaboration with British-Swedish pharma company AstraZeneca.Both University of Oxford and AstraZeneca on Monday said that their coronavirus vaccine was up to 90% effective in late-stage clinical trials, raising hopes for arrival of shots in India by the end of the year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/at-serum-modi-discusses-vaccine-production-ramping-up-capacity/story-yQLPRvAWaF3R884ZN0PpoM.html
29-11-2020||Pune||Shortage of ventilators in hosps; new cases add pressure on infra||Amid the rise in Covid-19 positive cases, the number of available ICU ( intensive care unit) allocated beds equipped with ventilators for the virus patients have also reduced to 432 in the city as of November 27, with zero vacancies in major hospitals. Patients who test positive for the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 infection take a longer time to recover if they end up on ventilators, observed doctors. So, with more cases coming up there has been a rise in critical cases too which is adding burden on the existing infrastructure which has also opened up for non-Covid19 patients. According to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) dashboard, major hospitals do not show any vacant ventilators, including Bharati hospital, Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital, Ruby Hall Clinic, Noble hospital and Sahyadri Hospital. (see graphic) Pune city has overall 184 vacant ventilators of the 432 allocated ventilators for Covid-19 patients in 83 hospitals. As of Friday (November 27), PMC reported a total of 413 critical patients in the city of which 249 were on ventilators while 164 were on ICU beds without ventilators. Also, more than 1,000 Covid-19 patients were under oxygen therapy for treatment. Dr Bharat Purandare, expert, infectious department, Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital, said, “All our ICU ventilators are full as of now. Post-Diwali we did see a surge in cases which means there is a proportionate rise in the number of critical patients too. In fact, we also have a few patients who were admitted earlier who are still critical and so we have to find additional support for newer critical patients.” “It is difficult for critical patients suffering from Covid-19 to recover from the same as it takes longer for them to recover. Such patients who undergo treatment in ICU are treated there for at least 15 days, that is my observation at our hospitals and so the number of critical patients will rise in proportion to newer cases and so ventilators remain occupied for a longer time,” he said. Dr Ashish Bharati, PMC health chief, said, “We can’t say now that whether we will face any shortage in future. However, as of now, we have enough ventilators available. Also, we have seen that private hospitals do not update the dashboard. Ideally, they should update it at least once every day.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/shortage-of-ventilators-in-hosps-new-cases-add-pressure-on-infra/story-ye6LfG3ACRC779BMLz529H.html
29-11-2020||Pune||NCP MLA Bharat Bhalke dies due to post-Covid complications; cremated in Solapur dist||Nationalist Congress Party legislator from Malshirash-Pandharpur constituency, Bharat Bhalke (60), died on Saturday while undergoing treatment for post-Covid complications at a city hospital. Bhalke is surveyed by his wife, son and three daughters, who are married. Balke was cremated at his native village Sarkoli in Solapur district with full state honours on Saturday. Bhalke had been a MLA for three terms and was a close associate of Sharad Pawar. He had defeated prominent leaders like Vijaysinh Mohite Patil and Sudhakar Paricharak in the previous elections. In his condolence message, Pawar tweeted: “Bhalke’s untimely passing away is painful. Pandharpur taluka has lost an efficient and people friendly leader.” Bhalke had tested positive for Covid-19 following which he was admitted to the Ruby Hall Clinic in Pune on October 30. However, as his condition improved, the former wrestler was discharged from the hospital. On November 9, Bhalke complained of recurrent fever and cough, as a result of which he was re-admitted to the hospital in Pune. As his condition worsened, Bhalke was put on ventilator. Ruby Hospital’s Dr PK Grant said, “Bhalke was admitted for post Covid-19 treatment at the hospital and was very critical. He was suffering from kidney illness and oxygen saturation level was also low.”He was a diabetic and suffered from kidney illness, he added.As Bhalke’s health deteriorated, NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Friday afternoon visited the hospital to take review of his health. After Pawar’s visit, Dr Grant briefed the media and cleared that his health is very critical. In 2009, he had defeated Vijaysinh Mohite Patil and emerged as a giant killer. In 2019, Bhalke defeated Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Sudhakar Parichark, who was earlier with the NCP.NCP leader and deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar expressed grief on Bhalke’s demise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/ncp-mla-bharat-bhalke-dies-due-to-post-covid-complications-cremated-in-solapur-dist/story-UreoylJvN0ys813xdWv1rN.html
29-11-2020||Pune||YourSpace: Schools must remain closed until a vaccine is available, say Pune readers||At our schools, we put the safety of our students and faculty members at the top. Looking at the gravity of the circumstances, and the uncertainty surrounding it, we feel that schools must remain closed and education must continue through the online medium. Education is very essential. However, life is precious, and we cannot jeopardise the health and safety of our teachers and students. Unless we have a vaccine that has been proven effective and made available for the masses, the threat of the pandemic still looms large. In such a situation, the reopening of schools is an unnecessary risk. Our school has re-worked the time-table and assessments in a way that children are actively engaged in education and extra-curricular activities. This holds good for students in the secondary section too. We have ensured that they are given assignments, and tests on a regular basis to ensure their learning outcomes are met. Much as we believe that class nine and 10th are crucial, we also need to prioritize the health and safety of our students. We have done everything to ensure the quality of education has not been compromised while ensuring the safety of our students and teachers. Besides, we are constantly in touch with the parents too, and they are very supportive of the decision to continue with online classes. Aparna Khairnar Reopening junior colleges ill-advised right now This is the most impractical step. A decision like this could have far-reaching consequences. In junior colleges with 120 students per classroom, we have three students seated on a bench, even if we restrict it to one student per bench sanitising all surfaces likely to be touched by students seems to be a very farfetched idea. I’m unable to understand how our limited housekeeping staff would be able to achieve this and how I would feel assured it is carried out satisfactorily since even they are at the risk of being exposed to the virus. Students normally enter the college premises about 15 minutes before the class and so recording the temperature of about 400 odd students and maintaining social distancing would be tough. Also, about 80 to 90 per cent of junior college students use public transport since they are all below 18. How can we put them at risk? Almost all parents have voiced their objection to this step and are not willing to send their children to college right now. Dr Gulshan Gidwani Time to reopen schools with caution and safety guidelines Following the directives of the government, the administration ordered that schools be opened only for students of Classes 9, 10, 11 and 12 as these students have to take board exams this year or the next and be eligible and prepared for national and international level competitive exams and admissions, without wasting an academic year. A total of 2.32 lakh students are dependent on public schooling in rural areas of Pune but unfortunately, almost 90,000 among them do not have a screen to access learning in their homes. Furthermore, 35 villages in the upper reaches of the Sahayari Hills do not have good internet facility to stream e-learning content. We made public appeals for the donation of mobile phones, tablet computers and laptops but there was a limited response. A total of 1.7 lakh students accessed online learning platforms such as “Deeksha” from rural areas of Pune, but we found that students were more attuned to lectures in classrooms rather than self-learning using a digital screen, though they are progressively becoming more comfortable now. We have provided self-learning workbooks, phone-based support from teachers and community classes but it’s difficult to systematically monitor these programs. The curriculum in senior classes requires students to do lab work and project work that requires school laboratories and libraries. Most of the students in rural areas do not have an effective academic guide at home and so there was a pressing need to open schools. A third of the villages in rural areas of Pune have never had a single Covid-19 case while today over 90 per cent of the villages do not have an active case. The daily deaths have also fortunately reduced to a fifth of what it was two months ago. Children are allowed to travel in flights and visit homes of relatives so definitely young adults in ages between 14-18 years, in areas with very few Covid-19 cases could attend schools to lay the foundation for their future. The administration has empowered school management committees, consisting of parents and teachers to ensure proper planning and implementation of those plans especially for sanitisation of toilets and touchpoints like door handles and railings, the practice of social distancing while travelling to schools, in-corridors and in-classrooms. Also, the use of masks at all times. All teachers are mandatorily undergoing RT-PCR tests and the positivity is less than 0.2 per cent while students are being screened every day. 546 Doctors around the district have been tasked to provide immediate medical attention in case of any symptoms but fortunately, not one new case has been reported in schools. We are monitoring by the hour through a special unit within the district’s IDSP Cell. Typically, the attendance is low in the first week after vacations and this has been a very long vacation. As parents see visible security, we are hoping for and are preparing for full attendance in classrooms. We are working to build confidence through visible action in schools and counselling by teachers and other parents. We fear that some girls may be forced to drop out of schools and we have directed the 21,000 women volunteers who helped prevent and support victims of domestic violence during the pandemic to ensure that girls continue their education and prevent any child-marriages. Opening schools also give a psychological message to young adults to take responsibility, face risks with caution and do their duty. If as a society we do not give this message, we would not find soldiers to protect our borders or nurses to serve in Covid wards. Schools, especially in India, serve multiple purposes beyond education, and even beyond nutrition. Ayush Prasad Schools are integral for growth, must re-open them Whether a child should go to school or not is a rhetoric which is in the mind of every parent. As per the World Health Organisation (WHO), data collected suggests that children under the age of 18 years represent 8.5 per cent of reported cases worldwide with a milder form of the disease and fewer symptoms. Children with chronic respiratory illness (Asthma), diabetes, obesity are at a higher risk. The role of children transmission is unknown. However, fewer outbreaks have been reported within educational settings. Does this information help the plight of any parent? To decode this conundrum here are some facts that might help. The return to school depends upon the protective measures taken to minimise the risk of infection not only within the school but also outside.Steps taken by parents include monitoring their child’s health, good hygiene practices which include teaching the child how to cough, sneeze into a tissue or elbow, washing hands regularly with soap water for at least 20 seconds, and the frequent use of sanitiser. On school re-opening, regular health check-ups are necessary. The schools should maintain a physical distance of desks of at least three to six feet apart, with fewer students in a classroom. Having lunch at desks should be encouraged. Schools should make use of outdoor spaces whenever possible and disinfect frequently touched surfaces. Teachers should guide the proper use of face masks and hand hygiene. For children under the age of five, masks should be optional, six-11 years masks should be worn as per a risk-based approach, the adolescent should wear masks mandatorily. These simple steps can help our children make this pandemic the new normal. School is an integral part in shaping the cognition and developmental skills in a child’s life. Institutionalised learning shapes the ethical, behavioural attitude facilitating the transition to adulthood. Dr Indrani Misra||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/yourspace-schools-must-remain-closed-until-a-vaccine-is-available-say-pune-readers/story-FnJvWoD0QJT201nUBV1z3N.html
29-11-2020||Pune||State govt cracks down on properties in violation of RERA in Pune||The state government has set up a probe committee to investigate scores of bogus property registrations in violation of the Real Estate Regulation and Development (RERA) Act, 2016. The government received many complaints in this regard especially that of 1,000 such bogus registrations at the sub registrar office, Hadapsar on a single day.The government in a recently issued government resolution (GR) ordered the inspector general of registration and stamps (IGR) to constitute a squad to investigate the complaint made before the state. The IGR will submit the report to the state government by December 1, 2020. The squad comprises of deputy inspector general of registration Govind Karad, acting DIG (headquarters) Bharat Garud, joint district registrar of stamps Vijay Bhalerao and joint district registrar Udayraj Chavan.According to the information available, a number of complaints were related to the registrar office (Haveli No 3) in Magarpatta-Hadapsar where scores of documents were registered in complete violation of the RERA act. The complaint points out that all the norms related to the registration were violated in areas like Hadpsar, Baner and PMRDA regions and even gunthewari lands located in grampanchayat areas were registered.Maharashtra inspector general of registration and stamps Omprakash Deshmukh said, “A special investigation squad has been formed to investigate the complaints made to the government and a report will be submitted to the state government by me before December 1st. We will find out how many such types of registrations have been done and a detailed inquiry will be done on each of the registered documents. We are going to investigate it as per the rule number of 44 and if the registration is prohibited by law, action will be initiated. I will give my opinion and recommendations on the inquiry report before it is submitted to the government. The inquiry will reveal the exact nature of the violation of the RERA norms.”Real Estate Regulation and Development (RERA) Act, 2016 is regarded as one of the landmark legislation passed by the Government of India. The aim of this act is a reformation of the real estate sector in India, encouraging transparency, accountability, and financial discipline.Penalties for non-complianceThe Real Estate (Regulatory and Development) Act, 2016 is the first in the real estate sector that provides for rules and regulations. This Act specifies the detailed rules and regulation for the proper process of registration and maintaining transparency, the Act also prescribes the penalty for different kinds of offences. Under penalties for non-compliance with the Act, RERA 2016 recommends imprisonment for a term which can be extended up to three years or a fine which may extend up to 10 per cent of the cost estimated of the real estate project, or both.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/state-govt-cracks-down-on-properties-in-violation-of-rera-in-pune/story-RLI7Uc6EFcAJXQPKdq4idN.html
29-11-2020||Pune||MVA govt completes a year: Hits and misses of Pune development projects||When Uddhav Thackeray was sworn in as chief minister of Maharashtra on November 28 last year, six others also took an oath with him though none of them was from Pune. A month later, three others – Ajit Pawar, Dilip Walse Patil and Dattatray Bharane – were sworn in during the first cabinet expansion of Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. With three ministers including Ajit Pawar, who is deputy CM, Pune could have been top on government’s priority list of development projects even as not a single major project was announced for Pune in past 12 months as Covid-19 hit its finances. A year later, most big projects like the proposed airport at Purandar, extended routes for metro rail, High Capacity Mass Transit Route (HCMTR) and ring road have also not seen any development, while a project like Hyperloop has been scrapped. Purandar airportThe proposed international airport at Purandar on the eastern part of Pune district was one of the most ambitious projects of previous Devendra Fadnavis government, which had identified land and was to begin its acquisition when there was a change in government in the state. After Shiv Sena-NCP-congress government came to power, not much happened till October when all of sudden, Pawar ordered the administration to explore three new sites for the project in the same tehsil due to opposition from local MLA Sanjay Jagtap. A month and a half later, the administration has not yet completed finalising new site, putting a question mark on the feasibility of the project itself. Outer ring road projectThe outer ring road, planned by Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) hasn’t seen any progress as the project is facing fund crunch as a result of which land acquisition could not be expedited. Conceptualised around 12 years ago, the 128-km route, once complete, will allow heavy vehicles to cross the city without entering into it. HCMTR or inner ring road and metroAnother crucial project for city - HCMTR or inner ring road – has also been put on the back burner by this government. The project which was to be developed jointly by PMC and state government is nowhere near start with Ajit Pawar raising some questions over it. The work on existing Metro rail project has also slowed due to pandemic with completion plan delayed by two years while no fresh route has been approved. Work in progressOn the other hand, MVA expedited work on Bhama-Askhed pipeline work, which is crucial for bringing water to parts of eastern Pune. Similarly, the state government agency PMRDA has razed University circle flyover to facilitate work on the proposed Hinjewadi-Shivajinagar metro route. At the same time, there has been some progress on Pune-Nashik rail project as Maharashtra Rail Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd (MRIDC) had floated tenders inviting civil contractors for constructions of tunnels and other ancillary work related to the Nashik-Pune rail project and other projects that are taken up by it. “Our government had expedited work on Bhama Askhed project while enough fund has been provided to the metro rail project. The SPPU flyover demolition plan, which was pending, was quickly executed during the lockdown. Covid has indeed delayed many things including metro work, the airport project has also been unnecessarily delayed,” said NCP spokesperson Ankush Kakade. Pune was the worst affected district due to Covid as the number of total positive cases along with fatalities was very high, prompting shortage of beds in the city between July and September. Tussle between MVA and BJPCivic activist Qaneez Sukhrani said nothing has been achieved in the city to improve the lives of people. “Situation is unstable as both MVA at the state level and BJP controlled Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) are concentrating on politically outdoing one another. So nothing is achieved in the interest of the general public.”The city has total of eight MLAs of which six are from BJP while two are NCPs. The Congress and Shiv Sena have no representation in Pune. “This government has taken Pune ten years back with no new announcement of any project or lack of progress on already announced ones. On Covid management in Pune, which was worst affected, the government was lethargic – be it bringing jumbo facilities, increasing beds or preventing deaths,” said BJP legislator from Shivajinagar Siddharth Shirole.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/mva-govt-completes-a-year-hits-and-misses-of-pune-development-projects/story-Ko9roTkvhj4r1j7IYzYZoI.html
29-11-2020||Lucknow||Private hospitals in Prayagraj delay submission of names for Covid-19 vaccination drive||A majority of private hospitals in Uttar Pradesh’s Prayagraj were dragging their feet over submission of details of doctors and other medical staff members for a possible deployment by the state administration to carry out Covid-19 vaccination drive, officials said.“We have 129 government hospitals, as well as community and primary health centres and posts, besides 1,235 private hospitals in the district. The details of doctors, nurses, paramedical and other staff were sought by us on October 23. Till date, mere 268 out of the 1,235 private hospitals have complied,” said district nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Rishi Sahai.Repeated reminders are being sent to those who have not yet complied with the directive. Meanwhile, uploading these details on the government specified portal for the vaccination is going on, he added.Despite the delay on this front, preparations have begun in Prayagraj for the safe storage and transportation of Covid-19 vaccines to various centres while maintaining appropriate temperature.The task of preparing a database of people to be vaccinated has been entrusted to the officials of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). UNDP district vaccine cold-chain manager Vinod Shukla said the names and other details of staff members of almost all government sector hospitals and institutions, amounting to 10,700, had arrived and were being uploaded.Also Read: Olympic-bound athletes will be given priority when COVID-19 vaccine is available: Kiren RijijuHe conceded that it was the private hospitals that were dragging their feet, in turn, delaying the data feeding work. So far, 5,072 names and associated details were provided by 268 private sector hospitals till November 27, he added.Shukla said the main storage facility for vaccines was being constructed at Tej Bahadur Sapru (Beli) Hospital in the district. Around 50 ice-lined refrigerators, (ILR) capable of highly safe vaccine storage, with proper power backup, would be installed at this site.“We hope to have the facility ready by December,” he added.Also Read: Cold chain in 53 districts gives UP advantage in Covid-19 vaccination: MinisterThe ice lined refrigerator units were equipped with effective polyurethane foam (PUF) insulation that ensures long hold-over time in case of a power failure, the officer added.“Likewise, for transport of the vaccines, we have a dedicated van that would have cold boxes with conditioning ice-packs to carry the vaccines, ensuring the right temperature,” said Shukla.District immunisation officer Dr Amit Srivastava said Rs 11.20 lakh had been sanctioned by the state government for getting the Covid-19 vaccine storage site ready. He said medical and health staff will be trained for administering the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/private-hospitals-in-prayagraj-delay-submission-of-names-for-covid-19-vaccination-drive/story-BPSHPDk4Va0ADTJrhH26dK.html
29-11-2020||Chandigarh||Mechanic on way to Delhi to help farmers dies in car fire||A 55-year-old cycle mechanic on his way to Delhi to help repair the tractors of farmers agitating against farm legislations was burnt to death when the car in which he was sleeping caught fire on Saturday night near the Tikri border close to the Capital.Janak Raj alias Ghaki from Dhanaula town in Barnala district is survived by his wife, son and daughter.Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) chief Joginder Singh Ugrahan saluted Ghaki for his ‘sacrifice’ and called for a probe into the incident.Rajesh Duggal, Jhajjar superintendent of police, said the incident took place when the mechanic was sleeping in the car after repairing a tractor near the Najafgarh flyover in Bahadurgarh.“Three of his friends were sleeping in a tractor trolley during the mishap. The mechanic was burnt alive... Prima facie it appears that he died due to short-circuit. The farmers sleeping near the site tried to douse the flames but couldn’t save the mechanic. We have sent his body for post-mortem at a hospital in Bahadurgarh. The matter is being investigated,” Duggal added.Tractor mechanics from various districts of Punjab have reached Delhi to repair farmers’ vehicles free of cost as part of their support to kisan unions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mechanic-on-way-to-delhi-to-help-farmers-dies-in-car-fire/story-Vf1v7eKSjEf30V3H3M986K.html
29-11-2020||Lucknow||Cold chain in 53 districts gives UP advantage in Covid-19 vaccination: Minister||Uttar Pradesh government is regularly reviewing the preparation of a robust cold chain infrastructure for storage of Covid-19 vaccine in the state’s 75 districts along with allocation of human resource and other logistical support required for vaccinating the state’s 23 crore plus population.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, on November 23, had directed officials to ensure that the state was not only ready with the cold chain infrastructure but also vaccinators in all districts by December 15. Health and family welfare minister Jai Pratap Singh is tasked with implementation of the task and is carrying out review in districts.Singh said Uttar Pradesh had the advantage of existing good cold chain network in a majority of districts. He pointed out that the health and family welfare department had been organising various vaccination programmes, including those for polio, Japanese encephalitis (JE) and routine immunisation round the year.Racing against time to meet the deadline, feedback on the state of the cold chain network, warehouses and transportation facilities, has been taken from district health departments. Singh added that funds had been allocated to all the districts to upgrade the existing system and ensure procurement of equipment and machines.The cold chain stores were fully functional for the storage of Covid-19 vaccine in 53 districts and construction or expansion work has been ordered in the remaining 22 districts including Agra, Ambedkar Nagar, Azamgarh, Balrampur, Banda, Etah, Firozabad, Gonda, Gorakhpur, Jhansi, Kanpur, Lalitpur, Mainpuri, Mathura, Muzaffarnagar, Prayagraj, Rae Bareli, Saharanpur, Sant Kabir Nagar, Varanasi, Mirzapur and Bareilly. All the works would be completed before December 15, Singh said.To strengthen the cold chain system, the state government has demanded 1,244 deep freezers and 115,635 vaccine carriers from the central government, which was being dispatched to the districts accordingly, the minister said.Singh said training of 70,631 vaccinators, including laboratory technicians, pharmacists and ANMs (auxiliary nurse midwives) working in the state health department had started. If required, the health department would hire vaccinators on contract for the Covid vaccination programme, he said.Also Read: UP races against time to build 2,03,938L cold chain storage for Covid-19 vaccineAddressing chief ministers on November 24, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had stated that the central government was keeping track of vaccine development both inside and outside the country. The PM also said that the Centre will prepare a distribution strategy in coordination with the state governments.In the first phase, frontline health workers, including doctors and paramedical staff will be vaccinated. The state government has directed all the district magistrates and chief medical officers (CMOs) to enlist public and private health workers on priority basis for the vaccination drive. In the second phase, vulnerable people, including senior citizens, are likely to be immunized. The final road map of the vaccination programme will be prepared before the launch of the Covid vaccination drive, Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/cold-chain-in-53-districts-gives-up-advantage-in-covid-19-vaccination-minister/story-7siZcPfSRZrCvGcoU88DSO.html
29-11-2020||Lucknow||UP races against time to build 2,03,938L cold chain storage for Covid-19 vaccine||The Uttar Pradesh government is aiming to create a cold chain storage capacity of 2,03,938 litres where temperature is maintained between 2 and 8 degrees Celsius for the first phase of the Covid-19 vaccination. This 2.03 lakh litre capacity includes 87,801 litres of space ordinarily used for routine immunisation purposes.The first phase of Covid-19 vaccination is expected to immunise over four crore people in the state with the focus on frontline corona warriors, including health workers. Uttar Pradesh has a population of about 23 crore.So far, 80,733 litre of space has been created, according to official data. Now, work is going on in 75 districts for creating an additional cold chain storage of 1,23,205 litres.1,16,137 litre of storage space has to be created for the first phase of Covid-19 vaccine delivery in December alone.Construction work is going on in 22 districts for making exclusive vaccine depots, while repair work is under way in 27 other districts.The target Covid population in each district is calculated in proportion to the state Covid population, which is seven times the number of beneficiaries for routine immunization. This is roughly equal to 20% of the districts’ population, according to state government officials.There are 97,000 doctors registered in Uttar Pradesh and over 65,000 of them are active in practice, according to the state medical faculty data. Apart from the doctors, there are nurses, pharmacists, ward boys, lab technicians, cleaning staff and clerks working in hospitals. They are expected to be among the first to be vaccinated for Covid-19.“We have not been told how many vaccine vials will be coming, but the infrastructure will be ready in time,” said Dr AP Chaturvedi, state immunisation officer. “Vaccines will come in batches and we will ensure they are dispatched from the depots,” he added.“As soon as the vials arrive, they will be sent out from the depots for vaccination, making space for more batches to be stocked,” said another official.Also Read: India’s Covid-19 count now closer to 9.4 million, 22 states and UTs have fatality rate lower than national averageWalk-in-freezers, walk-in-coolers, cold chain boxes and deep freezers are to be provided by the union government.Who will be next after healthcare workers?After the healthcare workers, people above 60 years of age could be vaccinated.“The risk of complications from Covid-19 is up to 50% higher in the elderly and those with a comorbidity. As the majority of the elderly suffer from some type of comorbidity such as diabetes or high blood pressure, vaccinating them will be a wise decision,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, association of international doctors and an expert in geriatric medicine.The elderly population in the state is over 6 crore including over 5 lakh elders in capital Lucknow. The vaccine storage equipment will have an electronic vaccine intelligence networking (EVIN) device that records temperatures in which vaccines are stored and if the range is broken, a message is sent via SMS to the authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-races-against-time-to-build-2-03-938l-cold-chain-storage-for-covid-19-vaccine/story-Frp6utbKkA94SmhHAqeceM.html
29-11-2020||Delhi||Farmers continue to camp at Delhi’s borders||Farmers’ groups continued to camp at the Delhi border for the third consecutive day on Sunday despite the Delhi Police having allowed them to enter the city and gather at the Sant Nirankari Ground in Burari. While the arterial roads at both Singhu and Tikri borders continued to remain closed, police said the farmer groups are peaceful and that no clashes were reported after Friday, when the groups first arrived at the borders and faced off with officials after being stopped from entering the Capital.Deputy commissioner of police (outer-north) Gaurav Sharma said the situation is normal at Singhu Border that connects Delhi with Haryana. “Our deployment is intact and the protesters are also peaceful,” he said.A police officer said the groups have even stopped sloganeering, unlike Friday and Saturday. “Some of them, especially the elderly men, even returned by Saturday night. But the rest, thousands of them, who have refused to take Burari ground as the protest site, remain at camps here,” the officer said.On Friday and Saturday, a small group of farmers that arrived at the Burari ground comprised either those who had gathered at the Tikri Border or the ones who had entered Delhi but were detained. They have camped at the ground since then as the police and paramilitary continue to keep the area fortified. Police also said that the farmer groups are still indecisive about whether they should accept the Burari ground as the protest site; their initial demand was Ramlila Maidan which is closer to the Lutyens Delhi. The farmers wished to march up to Jantar Mantar and Parliament house when they arrived on Friday. A little over 100 of them who had managed to sneak in were detained from Jantar Mantar and other areas of the city on the same day.It was then the police offered them the Burari ground as a protest site. The offer was made after a series of clashes at both the borders on Friday. On Friday, the police had also closed two other border roads -- the Dhansa border and the Jharoda Kalan border -- for traffic as a precautionary measure even through there were no protesters there.Farmers are protesting against the government’s moves to open up agricultural markets in the country and bring sweeping reforms to the farm sector, which supports nearly half the population. Farmers have demanded a repeal of three laws enacted by Parliament in September which, together, allow agribusinesses to freely trade farm produce without restrictions, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales and lay down new rules for contract farming. Farmers say the reforms would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, erode their bargaining power and weaken the government’s minimum support price (MSP) system, which offers cultivators assured prices from the government, largely for wheat and rice. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and railways, food and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal held day-long negotiations on November 13 with leaders of several farmers’ groups in attempt to end over two months of a politically challenging agitation. The discussions were inconclusive, but both sides had agreed to continue negotiations in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-continue-to-camp-at-delhi-s-borders/story-fgJGPO5gpx1MLQvLEQo5OL.html
29-11-2020||Dehradun||Mahakumb approaching, Uttarakhand has 3-pronged strategy to contain Covid-19||Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat directed the authorities to take strict action against those refusing to undergo a test despite showing symptoms of Covid-19 in the state. The directions came during a review of Covid-19 situation with all the 13 district magistrates (DM) and health officials on Saturday amid a surge in the number of Covid cases in the last few days.“We need to increase the testing rate in the state to curb the spread. In that process, if any symptomatic person refuses to undergo test, then strict action should be taken against him/her,” said Rawat.Directing the authorities to put in more efforts to bring down the death rate, he said, “There should be a proper analysis of every Covid-19 death (to see) if the patient was also suffering from another disease or (if) there was a delay in shifting (patient) to a hospital. There should be no delay in referring an infected person to a higher centre,” the CM said.He also asked the health officials and DMs to emphasize on conducting RT-PCR tests for Covid-19 detection.“If any person showing symptoms of the virus tested negative in Rapid Antigen test then he should compulsorily undergo RT-PCR test. Also, the test results should be given in 24 hours in urban areas and within 48 hours in rural areas,” said Rawat.The CM especially asked the DMs of Pithoragarh, Dehradun and Rudraprayag districts to focus more on bringing down the infection in their respective districts.He also asked the police to first fine those not wearing masks and then provide them with a mask. “Strict action will be taken if any police officer challans any person for not wearing a mask and doesn’t provide him one.”Rawat also asked for spreading awareness for compliance to required precautions. “It is important because the next few months are going to be challenging considering the winters, Mahakumbh and tourism activities,” he said.Also Read: Uttarakhand’s Vocal for Local push shows promise as growth centres make profitHealth secretary Amit Negi said that 80% of the total Covid-19 tests in the state are RT-PCR.“Also, 99.89% of the high risk contacts of Covid-19 people have been tested in the state. We are also taking test samples of people at popular tourist spots to curb the spread there,” said Negi.He also directed the DMs to ensure that the “non-Covid health centres are also operational.”The chief secretary, Om Prakash, directed all the DMs to ensure enough manpower for the vaccination process and hold regular meetings of the district and block level task forces created for the purpose.“Data of all the co-morbid patients, aged people, pregnant women and frontline covid-19 warriors should be maintained for the possible vaccination process,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/mahakumb-approaching-uttarakhand-has-3-pronged-strategy-to-contain-covid-19/story-X6iXJWkTFd0GqeAvbwAC9K.html
29-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi set to record coldest November in at least a decade: IMD||The national capital is all set to record coldest November in at least 10 years, with the mean minimum temperature for the month this year hovering around 10 degrees Celsius, according to India Meteorological Department data. In Delhi, the average minimum temperature for the month of November is 12.9 degrees Celsius. From November 1 to November 29, the city has recorded a mean minimum temperature of 10.3 degrees Celsius, which is the lowest in at least a decade, according to IMD data. The mean minimum temperature was 15 degrees Celsius last year, 13.4 degrees Celsius in 2018 and 12.8 degrees Celsius in 2017 and 2016. On Sunday, Delhi recorded a minimum of 7 degrees Celsius. This is the seventh day this month that the minimum temperature remained below 10 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature is likely to settle around 7 degrees Celsius on Monday as well, according to IMD. On November 23, Delhi recorded a minimum of 6.3 degrees Celsius -- its lowest minimum temperature in the month since November 2003, when the city recorded a minimum of 6.1 degrees Celsius, according to Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD’s regional forecasting centre. The minimum temperature this month, barring on November 16, has remained 2-3 degrees Celsius below normal in the absence of a cloud cover on most days, according to IMD officials. Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation and radiate it back downward, warming the ground. The month of October was the coldest in 58 years in the national capital. The mean minimum temperature in October this year was 17.2 degrees Celsius, the lowest since 1962, when it was 16.9 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-set-to-record-coldest-november-in-at-least-a-decade-imd-data/story-zq33C93J0Cd9ia2aCb2vDO.html
29-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s air continues to remain in poor category||Delhi’ s air quality deteriorated marginally on Sunday morning, though it remained in the poor category. The air quality index (AQI) was 248 at 8 am. On Saturday, the average AQI was 231. Scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) have forecast air quality to remain in the “poor” zone till November 30, after which it is expected to deteriorate. “The air quality has been in check over the past few days because of good winds. However the wind speed is likely to deteriorate gradually from Sunday,” said a senior IMD scientist. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.Besides, the scientist added that the temperature in Delhi and the National Capital Region is also likely to drop in the coming days because of the continuing snowfall in the regions of Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Ladakh and parts of Uttrakhand. On Saturday, the minimum temperature was 10.1 degrees C while the maximum settled at 26.4 degrees Celsius, a notch above normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-air-continues-to-remain-in-poor-category/story-vAPfloUPD3Pr6avsEmfBfJ.html
29-11-2020||Lucknow||Governor okays UP’s ‘love jihad’ law||Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel approved an ordinance promulgated by the state against forced and dishonest conversions, though there are fears that the law may also be used to target inter-faith marriages where one of the partners voluntarily converts. The Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020 came into effect on Sunday itself. It has provisions to check religious conversions carried out by “allurement, coercion, force, fraud, or marriage.” The state cabinet cleared the law earlier this week, targeting what many right-wing outfits term “love jihad”, where Muslim men marry Hindu women with the aim of changing the latter’s religion after marriage. According to the ordinance, marriages where the intention is to change the woman’s religion will be declared invalid. “Yes, the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance- 2020 has been promulgated,” confirmed additional chief secretary, Home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi.Under the provisions of the new law, the violations have been made a cognizable and non-bailable offence. The new law authorises the aggrieved persons’ parents, siblings or close relatives to file a first information report (FIR) for violation of the provisions of the ordinance.The ordinance provides for jail term of up to 10 years in some cases for violators and treats forced and forced conversions as a non-bailable offence. A government spokesperson said those violating the provisions may be punished with imprisonment of one to five years with a fine of not less than Rs 15,000. In case of girls, who are minors or belong to the scheduled castes or the scheduled tribes, the imprisonment will be for two to 10 years with a minimum fine of Rs 25,000. In case of mass conversion, the law has the provision for imprisonment of three to 10 years and a minimum fine of Rs 50,000. It provides for courts to award appropriate compensation with a maximum of Rs 5 lakh payable by the accused to the victim. Any person who counsels or convinces the other person to commit the offence will also invite punishment. And the burden of proof will lie with the accused.UP’s move is likely to encourage other states that have spoken of a similar law -- Haryana and Madhya Pradesh are at the head of the queue -- to push through their own ordinances. Starting now, in UP, anyone wishing to convert to another religion will have to give a declaration at least 60 days in advance to the respective district magistrate/ additional district magistrate and a violation will invite punishment of six months to three years with a fine of Rs 10,000. Any religious converter, who performs conversion ceremony, will have to give a month’s notice and violation will invite a punishment of one year to five years with a fine of Rs 25,000.Under the provisions of the ordinance, an inquiry will thereafter be conducted about the intention/ purpose of conversion and the violation of this provision will have the effect of rendering such conversion null and void. The converted person will have to make another declaration on the prescribed format within six months after conversion. The new law also provides for cancellation of registration of the institution/organisation violating the provisions and the person in charge will invite punishment as per the provisions of the new law. No government grant will be given to such institutions or organisations violating the law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/governor-okays-up-s-love-jihad-law/story-09NdPOiw8vItiLxH0dvovO.html
29-11-2020||City||Sex determination: Panchkula team raid private hospital in Nawanshahr, doctor held||A doctor of a private hospital in Balachaur in Nawanshahr, Punjab, was booked under the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (PCPNDT) Act, 1994, after a team from Panchkula caught him redhanded while he was performing a sex determination test.Nodal officer, PCPNDT Act, Dr Vikas Gupta and his team raided the hospital following a tip-off. As per information, a team of seven officials seized the ultrasound machine which was being used for sex determination, CCTV footage and ₹15,000 from the spot.“Dr Ujagar Singh Soori, who was practising without any degree, was arrested. The Punjab Police have registered an FIR under the PCPNDT Act against him,” said the official statement shared by the district public relations office, Panchkula.Dr Gupta said after they received information that sex determination test was being done at the hospital for ₹35,000, they sent a fake patient there. The patient was asked to give a signal, following which the team raided the hospital.He added that a nurse had fled the spot with ₹20,000, however, the doctor was arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sex-determination-panchkula-team-raid-private-hospital-in-nawanshahr-doctor-held/story-NlGTWXDtPfgT0d6c1Kzs0J.html
29-11-2020||City||Tricity buzz: HT Chandigarh reporters’ trackers on all those making, or faking, news||Humane gesture by Mohali traffic police The Mohali traffic police have reached out to the children of a hit-and-run accident victim and assured them all support. SP (traffic) Gurjot Singh Kaler met the two young siblings, Tanya and Badal, and gifted them warm clothes and blankets. The children lost their mother when a speeding vehicle hit her from behind and she succumbed to the injuries. “We can’t lessen their pain and sorrow but we can certainly help them,” said Kaler, urging people to drive safe. Congress protest or was it a photo op? Protesting against the BJP’s performance, rather non-performance, in Chandigarh, Congress councillors rushed to the well of the House with placards during the meeting on November 27. A few minutes on, a BJP councillor asked his Congress counterparts to return to their seats, saying: “You’ve got your pictures clicked so stop this drama now.” The members were in splits when a Congress councillor replied, “Achha yahan media bhi hai? Humein toh pata hi nahi tha, hum toh ye sab janta ke liye kar rahe hain (Oh, is the media here? We were doing all this for the people).” Incidentally, a Congress councillor had tipped the journalists off earlier, requesting them not to leave as they had planned a protest in the well of the House. After high drama, journalists back in the media gallerySince the end the Covid-19 lockdown, covering the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation meetings from the confines of the committee room on the sixth floor of the MC building in Sector 17 has been a virtual struggle for journalists. On November 27 too, the mediapersons gathered in the committee room to watch the live video feed of the House meet. As usual, they struggled to make sense of the proceedings because of the poor quality of the video feed. Repeated requests to officials for better arrangements went unheeded till they missed the feed for nearly an hour. The 10-odd journalists had had enough when an official locked one of the committee room’s exits so they met mayor Rajbala Malik in her office during the break. Malik directed MC officials to make arrangements for the journalists in the media gallery of the House. Within 10 minutes, the arrangements were made. When councillors lost, and found, their voice Both Congress and BJP councillors created a ruckus during the House meeting when one of the BJP members was a given a cordless microphone to make a statement. Congress councillors alleged that while their voices were not audible to journalists in the committee room, BJP members were being given special microphones. The BJP member, who got the cordless mic, said journalists could hear him through the instrument installed at his seat, too. This led to a verbal duel between members of both parties till MC commissioner KK Yadav intervened. He directed the MC chief engineer to go to the committee room and check whether the voices of all councillors could be heard over the video feed. The House proceedings resumed once the chief engineer confirmed that everyone was clearly audible. Duplicate bricks hurting business If you thought duplicates were limited to electronic gadgets and clothing brands, you’d be surprised to learn that even bricks used for construction aren’t spared. A representative of a brick manufacturing company, KKK, held a press conference on November 23 to complain that dubious kilns had copied the brand name and were selling substandard bricks, hurting the sale of the original. The company holds the contract of supplying bricks to a number of construction projects underway in and around the tricity. With duplicate bricks flooding the market, the original are piling up at the kiln. The company’s owners have warned dubious kilns of legal action and reporting them to the administration. Social media to rescue of traffic cones at Sukhna The cones installed by the Chandigarh Traffic Police earlier this month to demarcate the cycle track in front of Sukhna Lake were found displaced on Friday by a resident, who took to Twitter to complain. The problem was promptly resolved by the traffic police, who now plan to install such cones on other busy roads of the city for the safety of cyclists. Professor mimics PU V-C during teachers’ protest From reciting poems to singing songs, members of the Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) have been coming up with innovative ways to register their protest against the pending promotion of teachers under the career advancement scheme (CAS). A few days ago, a woman professor took to imitating vice-chancellor Raj Kumar during a dharna much to the amusement of the protesters. The video clip was widely shared among teachers. Inputs by Hillary Victor, Munieshwer A Sagar, Shailee Dogra, Rajanbir Singh and Dar Ovais||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tricity-buzz-ht-chandigarh-reporters-trackers-on-all-those-making-or-faking-news/story-8XiU0iZ0jkGbtv6dPzRorL.html
29-11-2020||City||Sealed buildings, containment zones in slums in Mumbai drop since Sept||Since September, when Mumbai recorded a peak in Covid-19 cases, the number of sealed buildings has reduced by 55% as fewer active cases have been reported. There were 10,871 sealed buildings on September 25 and the number has come down to 4,790 in November. The number of containment zones in slums has also reduced from 686 on September 25 to 407 in November. The overall positivity rate of the city is at 15%. In September, Mumbai saw a spike in Covid-19 cases, with the daily caseload going over 2,000 and the total number of active cases crossing 34,000. Since the last week of October, daily caseload has come down sharply and the total number of active cases is around 14,000 at present. Civic officials said fewer positive cases are being reported from high-rises. “It is likely that there are fewer cases in buildings, but we are regularly setting up testing camps in areas where the caseload is higher,” says Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner (health).Assessing the cases in the past few weeks, Kakani added that even though the number of tests conducted daily had been scaled up to above 20,000, daily positive cases remained at around 1,000. In November, the positivity rate is 6% while the city’s overall positivity rate is 15%.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) focus is now on those returning to the city, particularly migrant workers who had left for their hometowns and villages in other states after the lockdown began in March. As part of the survey under the state government’s ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ campaign, the municipal corporation had compiled a list of 12,000 homes in slum pockets that were reported as locked. These homes will now be revisited by civic officials and if anyone is found living in those homes, they will be made to undergo a health check-up and also a Covid-19 test, if necessary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sealed-buildings-containment-zones-in-slums-in-mumbai-drop-since-sept/story-ZLYAUpQe5W1XMwjGveK6bK.html
29-11-2020||Chandigarh||Man drives away with bike on pretext of test drive in Chandigarh’s Manimajra||On the pretext of taking a test drive, a man drove away with the motorcycle of a Manimajra resident, the police said on Saturday. In his complaint, Ravi told the police that he was a student at a private institute in Dera Bassi and had put an advertisement on OLX for selling his motorcycle. A person identifying himself as Rahul had approached him and expressed desire to purchase the two-wheeler. Rahul had even got the motorcycle tested by a mechanic at a service centre in Industrial Area, Phase 2, before asking for keys for a test drive, Ravi told the police. An unsuspecting Ravi handed over the keys and accused Rahul drove away with the motorcycle, police said. When he did not return, Ravi tried calling him but his phone was switched off.A case under Section 406 (criminal breach of trust) of the Indian Penal Code was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-drives-away-with-bike-on-pretext-of-test-drive-in-chandigarh-s-manimajra/story-jAkCIjyKLQzmPv1rzwGO0I.html
29-11-2020||Mumbai||Verify allegations of violations at Juhu for new sea link: Maharashtra coastal authority to MSRDC, Mumbai suburban collector||Maharashtra’s coastal authority has directed state bodies to that ensure environmental laws are not violated for the construction of a permanent access road across Juhu beach for the Versova-Bandra Sea Link (VBSL). Citing environmentalist Zoru Bhathena’s complaint, in which he has claimed violation of coastal regulation zone (CRZ) laws for the constructions of the access road, the Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) on Friday issued directions to the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation Ltd (MSRDC) and the suburban district collector to verify, take appropriate action and send a factual, detailed action taken report at the earliest on the allegations. “Treat this as an important complaint,” read the letter. “We have asked them to check for any violations of CRZ norms 1991 and 2011, and the Bombay high court orders from 2005, 2010 and 2018 (for protection of mangroves and intertidal areas) as the site is CRZ-1 where no construction activity is allowed,” said a senior MCZMA official. According to Bhathena’s complaint, the permanent access road across Juhu koliwada was being constructed to give access to the construction zones falling within the intertidal areas. “However, this road is being built by excavating the beach sand and filling up this excavated area with stones and also through the intertidal zone (area between high tide and low tide) or CRZ-1 areas. This is a prohibited activity,” the complaint read, adding that the CRZ clearance issued by the Union environment ministry on January 9, 2013, expressly clarified, “There shall be no dredging and reclamation for the project.” The complaint filed before the environment department, MCZMA and various state bodies called for an immediate action to stop the work, failing which the environmentalist said the matter would be taken to court. “There is absolutely no need to reclaim the beach to build a bridge on stilts. I am glad that MCZMA has taken cognisance of my complaint, and hope MSRDC will stop this illegal construction and restore Juhu Beach and its intertidal areas to its natural condition,” said Bhathena. MSRDC officials refused to comment. “We will comply with directives, if any, but no such instructions have been received by us yet,” said an MSRDC official. About the projectIn May 2019, the Supreme Court (SC) had dismissed MSRDC’s petition to set up a casting yard for the VBSL project at Juhu beach on the grounds that it would have a negative impact on the beach. MCZMA in February 2019 had approved the construction of the casting yard, but Bhathena had challenged the decision before the HC, which revoked MCZMA’s permission citing violations of CRZ laws. MSRDC had then moved the SC. The VBSL project is a 9.6km-long bridge (four-plus-four land) proposed to be constructed off 900 metres away from the coast. The sea link will have three connectors – one at Otter’s Club, Bandra; second at Juhu Koliwada and the third at Nana Nani Park at Versova —which would take the total length of the sea link to 17.17km. According to MSRDC, the total project cost is Rs11,332.82 crore, while the cost of construction is Rs6,993.99 crore. It aims to be a part of the coastal road project that will link Nariman Point and the northern suburbs. The proposed sea link will begin from the Bandra-end of the 5.6km Bandra-Worli Sea Link.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/verify-allegations-of-crz-violations-at-juhu-for-versova-bandra-sea-link-submit-report-maharashtra-coastal-authority-to-msrdc-mumbai-suburban-collector/story-BlFnHGBBs3RwPtyQiCwFDK.html
29-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s new traffic SSP to join within a week||The Haryana government has relieved Panipat superintendent of police Manisha Chaudhary, who is set to be become Chandigarh’s first woman senior superintendent of police (security and traffic). The ministry of home affairs had earlier approved her appointment on inter-cadre deputation from Haryana to AGMUT (Arunachal Pradesh-Goa-Mizoram-Union Territories) for three years. A 2011-batch Indian Police Service (IPS) officer, she is likely to join office within a week.Chaudhary was recently involved in a controversy, after she along with two other cops was booked for abetting the suicide of a former councillor in Panipat. A three-member team headed by an ADGP is investigating the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-new-traffic-ssp-to-join-within-a-week/story-EPa7gu4XK6yYVBNsk2KSSK.html
29-11-2020||City||Youth held for killing one, injuring another in Panchkula’s Rajiv Colony||The Panchkula police on Saturday said they had arrested a resident of Rajiv Colony for allegedly murdering a 30-year-old man from Mauli Jagran in Chandigarh.The accused was identified as Sudhir, a man in his late 20s.Shiv Shankar of Mauli Jagran Complex in Chandigarh told the police that his younger brother Ravi Shankar, 30, used to live with them and work in a meat shop in Rajiv Colony.He added, “I was at home when a few men came and informed me that my younger brother had been attacked with a knife and was lying injured in Rajiv Colony, from where the police took him to Sector-6 civil hospital.”At the hospital, he was told that his brother had succumbed to injuries. Police said one Deepu of Rajiv Colony had an enmity with Sudhir who also lives in the same colony. At around 10.30pm, Sudhir attacked Ravi Shankar. Even Deepu was seriously injured and rushed to GMCH-32.The complainant said that there was a possibility that there were other boys involved along with Sudhir. A case under Sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code was registered.Burnt body found in MorniThe police found a body of a 40-year old man named Madan lying burnt at his house. Police said the man was a habitual drinker and was under the influence of alcohol when the accident happened. There was a possibility that he burnt his mattress with a bidi/cigarette, they added.On Friday night, when the brother of the deceased, who lived 500 meters away from him, went to see his brother at 11:30pm, he saw smoke coming out of his house. The police were informed, but no case has been registered so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/youth-held-for-killing-one-injuring-another-in-panchkula-s-rajiv-colony/story-fEH2aNNTJSpvHbxHVooIbK.html
29-11-2020||Chandigarh||Moga duo gets 10-yr jail, fined ₹3 lakh in Chandigarh drugs case||The Chandigarh district court has awarded 10-year jail to two Punjab youths who were arrested with 3.2-kg opium and 630-kg poppy husk in a truck transporting pulses in 2016.Observing that instances of drug peddling are rising at an alarming rate and directly affecting the youth and entire social fabric of society, court also imposed a fine of ₹3 lakh on the convicts: Lakhwinder Singh of Dosanjh village and Manpreet Singh of Kot Ise Khan, both in Moga.It was on July 7, 2016, that police had stopped the truck being driven by Lakhwinder, 26, near the Furniture Market, following a tip-off that it was carrying a consignment of drugs from Madhya Pradesh. Manpreet was sitting next to the driver. On checking, police found the contraband concealed within bags of pulses. The duo had claimed false implication in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/moga-duo-gets-10-yr-jail-fined-3-lakh-in-chandigarh-drugs-case/story-QPlk5C4zEm9CFd9u6QS1kN.html
29-11-2020||City||Mohali: 2 held, 4 booked for firing in air after minor altercation||Two persons were arrested and four of their accomplices were booked for allegedly firing in the air following a minor argument in Lohgarh of Zirakpur.Those arrested have been identified as Harvinder and Manpreet, while their accomplices are Gogi, Pali, Lali, and Gurnaib – all residents of Lohgarh, Zirakpur.Complainant, Bhagat Singh, who hails from Gurdaspur, said he and his three friends were at a shop near Sigma City Chowk in Zirakpur when one of the accused started hurling abuses at them. The complainant further said the accused seemed to be under the influence of drugs so they initially ignored him. But he started manhandling them and rang up his friends, who then reached the spot in three vehicles, including a Fortuner.Following this, the complainant and his friends started driving towards the police station. It was then that the accused alighted from their vehicle and fired in the air. Based on the complaint, a case has been registered under Section 336 (rash and negligent driving), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections of the Arms Act, at the Zirakpur police station. They were traced with the help of the car’s registration number provided by the complainant. Zirakpur station house officer Rajpal Singh said, “We have arrested two persons and the rest will also be arrested soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-2-held-4-booked-for-firing-in-air-after-minor-altercation/story-XwjQScsC3qdiZzdwemehPP.html
29-11-2020||Delhi||Marginal drop in capital’s air quality, fall in mercury likely next week: IMD||Delhi’s air quality deteriorated marginally on Saturday and settled in the poor category from moderate on Friday. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data showed Delhi’s overall AQI on Saturday at 231. On Friday, the air quality had improved to reach 137. IMD scientists said that the wind speed had slowed down slightly on Saturday compared to Friday, but it was still enough to have facilitated pollution dispersion. VK Soni, head of IMD’s environment monitoring research centre, said, “The average wind speed recorded on Thursday night was also around 8kmph, which is rare because winds tend to slow down at night. During the day too, the winds have been favourable for the dispersion of pollutants. Today (Saturday), the wind speed was high but not as high as it was on Friday, so the AQI increased.”Union ministry of earth sciences’ air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), data shows that on Friday 499 fires were spotted over Punjab and Haryana, contributing to 4% of the Capital’s PM2.5 levels.Soni also said air quality is expected to remain between moderate and poor range till November 30, after which there is a forecast for deterioration. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, also said that gradually wind speed will deteriorate from Sunday. He added that the temperature in Delhi and NCR is also expected to fall in the coming days because of the continuing snowfall in the regions of Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Ladakh and parts of Uttarakhand.On Friday, the minimum temperature recorded at the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official recording for the city, was 10.1 degree Celsius. The maximum temperature was 26.4 degree Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/marginal-drop-in-capital-s-air-quality-fall-in-mercury-likely-next-week-imd/story-6AXSLgf9XrKBVp9tgLmtQI.html
29-11-2020||Mumbai||Cyclone Nivar helps improve Mumbai’s air||After witnessing poor air quality for three days, the city on Saturday saw an improvement in air quality with an increase in wind speed and rise in minimum temperature owing to partly cloudy conditions. The air quality index (AQI) was recorded at 123 (moderate) on Saturday from Friday’s 218 (poor). On Wednesday, AQI was 201 (poor) while on Thursday, the city recorded the worst air quality in eight months with an AQI of 252 (poor). The System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) and the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the air quality improvement was an after effect of the remnants of Cyclone Nivar, which made landfall over the east coast as a very severe cyclonic storm north of Puducherry late on Wednesday. The cyclone subsequently weakened and dissipated as it moved over peninsular India.Gufran Beig, project director, SAFAR, and scientist of Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, Pune, said, “Under the influence of the remnants of Cyclone Nivar, winds over coastal and interior Maharashtra suddenly became fast between late Friday night and early Saturday morning, which helped disperse pollutants that accumulated closer to the surface. A marginal rise in morning temperatures also helped reduce the carrying capacity of pollutants in air.” Beig added that depending on the intensity of winds, AQI was expected to fluctuate within the moderate category in the next three days. It is expected to be 120 (moderate) on Sunday. On Saturday, Mazagaon (242) and Chembur (208) were the most polluted locations in the city, recording poor air quality, while Navi Mumbai (71) and Worli (88) had the cleanest air with the AQI in the satisfactory category.Meanwhile, the minimum temperature in south Mumbai increased to 24 degrees Celsius, 2 degree Celsius above normal, while the suburbs recorded 23.2 degrees Celsius. The maximum temperature in south Mumbai fell below the normal mark on Friday and was at 31.7 degrees Celsius. The day temperature in the suburbs dropped from 34.4 degrees Celsius to 33.3 degrees Celsius, which was close to the normal mark. “Mostly due to the post-cyclone effect, almost the entire state was under cloud cover on Saturday, as the remnants of the system pushed a lot of moisture, contributing to high clouds, which can lower the visibility, lead to some drizzle and lower the temperatures, too,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD.He said light drizzling was reported from Solapur, and other areas in interior Maharashtra could also witness light showers.IMD has predicted a partly cloudy sky for Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cyclone-nivar-helps-improve-mumbai-air/story-f6Uv006mT6raDGuO1InnAL.html
29-11-2020||Chandigarh||NAAC preparation: PU directs departments to form academic, research review panels||With a National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) team visit scheduled for 2022, Panjab University (PU) has directed its departments to form committees for academic and research review.They have also been directed to constitute social review committees at the department level. The PU departments have been asked to constitute the panels and prepare a summary report by November 30, 2020. The move has been initiated to formulate a strategy for the next year. This was recently communicated by the office of the Dean University Instruction (DUI) to the departments for necessary action.This comes after vice-chancellor Raj Kumar had directed the departments to form the committees, during a meeting with the heads of the departments in October. PU’s dean University instruction (DUI) RK Singla said, “The step has been taken to prepare the university for the upcoming NAAC visit.”During the previous NAAC visit, which was in 2015, PU was granted A-grade with 3.35 marks out of four. The varsity’s preparations for the upcoming NAAC visit had been halted by the pandemic outbreak.What are the committees?The departments have been directed to constitute a research review committee consisting of two to three members, including a PhD/PG student, and they have been asked to prepare a report regarding the research work done till date and also the research work to be done in future. The committee has also been asked to explore the new thrust areas for research development.An academic review committee will also be constituted by the departments to prepare a report regarding academic activities undertaken by them till date and the work to be done in future.Moreover, the departments have been directed to form social review committees to work on outreach activities. They have also been asked to update their Institute Resource portal as well.PU’s director of Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC), Professor Ashish Jain, said, “The steps are being taken to streamline research ecosystem, curriculum and its delivery within the departments. We are also trying to improve on the outreach ecosystem in the departments.”“These activities will help the University to formulate strategies for the upcoming NAAC visit as well as other rankings of the University,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/naac-preparation-pu-directs-departments-to-form-academic-research-review-panels/story-b0YuSJNB19y8O3sECjDKCJ.html
29-11-2020||City||Panchkula records highest Covid cases in two months||The number of Covid-19 cases being reported in Panchkula district is again inching towards 100, with 96 people testing positive on Saturday. It is the highest single-day count in the district in the past two months.After 113 cases surfaced on September 30, the daily count never went past 90 in October and November, until now. Among the fresh cases, 65 surfaced in Panchkula city alone. Meanwhile, no casualty was reported.The total has reached 8,615, of which 501 cases remain active cases. While 7,987 (92.7%) patients have recovered, 127 have succumbed to the disease. Mohali’s recovery rate drops to 84.6%Three people lost the battle against the virus in Mohali district.The district also reported 178 fresh cases, with 82 from Mohali city alone. With only three patients being discharged on Saturday, the number of active cases shot up to 2,074.As many as 15,263 people have tested positive so far, of whom 12,913 (84.6%) have recovered and 276 have died.Four succumb to virus in ChandigarhIn Chandigarh, four people died while 89 tested positive and 160 were discharged on Saturday.Those who died have been identified as four men, aged 78, 71, 69 and 66, from Sectors 34, 40, 20 and 46, respectively.The infection tally stands at 17,246, of which 1,115 cases are active. While 15,857 (91.9%) people have recovered, 274 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-records-highest-covid-cases-in-two-months/story-aGWgDLlgPmZ4Bl6GAlYr2K.html
29-11-2020||Chandigarh||High court contempt notice to Amravati Enclave promoters||The Punjab and Haryana high court (HC) has issued a contempt notice to Amravati Enclave promoters, Kulbhushan Goyal and Hargobind Goyal, on a plea from a retired colonel, alleging violation of court orders.The HC bench of justice Nirmaljit Kaur has sought a response from them by February 18, asking them why contempt of court proceedings should not be initiated.The HC had, on October 28, restrained them from carrying out further construction work on the project. In the fresh plea filed by one Col BS Rangi (retd), he had alleged that despite court orders, the promoters are continuing with the construction work.The court had stayed the construction on being told of the various norms’ violations by the developer. As per the petitioner, the developer do not have fire department clearance, environment clearance and no objection certificate from nearby buildings, but are continuing with the project.On October 28, the developer, Amarnath Investment Private Limited, with Goyals as promoters, had argued that environmental certificate has been taken but it has expired. However, the court had not agreed and directed the developer and their agents not to take up further construction work.The issue is about development of extension of the enclave over 2.6 acre of land at Bhagwanpur village. As per the plea, the license was granted to developer in 1996 for development of a group housing colony in Bhagwanpur, Islam Nagar and Chandi Mandir. It got permission for the project from government in 2010 but environmental clearance was not secured.The plea also alleges that three blocks have already been constructed, which are not secure enough to survive even a medium-intensity earthquake.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/high-court-contempt-notice-to-amravati-enclave-promoters/story-HqU4QVZ8yFGqIhLQhAfIhK.html
29-11-2020||City||4 blind murders solved with arrest of three Kala Kachha gang members by Mohali police||With the arrest of three active members of the notorious interstate Kala Kachha gang, Mohali police on Saturday claimed to have solved multiple crimes, including four blind murders. Those arrested have been identified as Matching of Muradabad, Wasim of Uttar Pradesh, and Ramjaan, alias Kura, of Delhi, who had made Baddi in Himachal Pradesh as their base, from where they were arrested.“They are involved in sensational crimes in Punjab and Haryana.Thirteen FIRs, including that of four murders, have been traced,” said Satinder Singh, senior superintendent of police, Mohali. One of the accused, Matching, was declared a proclaimed offender in Kapurthala in 2013. The accused were booked for murder at Saha in Ambala in August 2019. They were also involved in a double murder in Kapurthala in September 2019. In Mohali, the trio had struck at two farm houses in Majri village in October this year. Besides looting jewellery and cash, they had left one man dead and other occupants injured. During investigation, police found the involvement of the Kala Kachha (also known as Kachha Baniyan) gang of Uttar Pradesh and Uttarkhand. The trio is reported to have confessed to involvement in at least 20 crimes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-blind-murders-solved-with-arrest-of-three-kala-kachha-gang-members-by-mohali-police/story-0fcER5IQwJ87aVZInKWjFL.html
29-11-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 effect: Most prefer working from home, say productivity up, reveals all-India survey||As companies worldwide are taking the decision of letting people work from home, Indians seemed to have taken a liking to the new normal ushered in by the Covid-19 pandemic. According to a survey of 720 respondents across India, 54% love working from home and 56% believe their productivity has increased by working from home.Around 34% respondents, who said they like working from home, are also willing to take a 10% pay cut if companies allow them to work from home permanently, revealed Mavericks India’s report — Covid-19 and Beyond: An Evolving Perspective. However, most of the respondents who agree for a pay cut are also senior executives.The report, which was released earlier this week, also states that 81% of the people who used to spend more than 90 minutes of one-way commute to the office would love to work from home permanently. According to a report by MoveInSync, on an average, Indians spend two hours a day commuting, which is the highest in the world. Among the respondent from different cities, 52% from Mumbai said they like working from home, compared to 78% in Pune, 66% in Bengaluru and 51% in Delhi. The report also stated that women prefer the work-from-home setup more than men.Chetan Mahajan, CEO of Mavericks, said, “By working from home, people can save costs associated with commute, grooming and maintaining a formal wardrobe, apart from saving time. Of course, there are teething problems of maintaining a work-life balance, but it will evolve and people will learn to adapt to the new phenomena.” 56% of the respondents said they were struggling to find a work-life balance as the lines have blurred in the past few months.Mavericks conducted the survey in September-October to understand the behavioural changes among people caused by the pandemic. The report also states that 51% respondents have started focusing on maintaining better hygiene since the start of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-effect-most-prefer-working-from-home-say-productivity-up-reveals-all-india-survey/story-fsbIjhXT9HtBncmlNEdHUK.html
29-11-2020||Chandigarh||Coaching centres in Chandigarh unlikely to reopen from December 1||Even as the UT administration has permitted coaching institutes to resume regular operations from December 1, subject to observance of strict protocols both in classes and hostels, many coaching institutes are unlikely to reopen.Business head of Sri Chaitanya Institute in Sector 34, Hitesh Panwar, said, “Right now, we haven’t decided whether we will reopen from December 1 or not. We will convene a meeting on Saturday and also speak to the parents of students who take online classes from us to get an idea of how many students will actually come if we resume regular classes.”He added that online classes were going on smoothly, and even the UT administration has directed coaching institutes to concentrate on online teaching rather than regular classes.Some coaching institutes are still unclear about what the protocols would be in the classes before they decide to open. Senior manager of Allen institutes in tricity, Jitain Gupta, said, “We will receive directions from our head office in Kota, Rajasthan, about reopening. Till now, there are no clear instructions from the administration’s side on key aspects such as the number of students allowed per classroom. We hope that the administration can hold a meeting with coaching institutes of the city and discuss these issues with us.”He said they were facing no issues with online classes and would continue with them as of now. Other institutes such as Abhimanu IAS Study Group in Sector 25 are also holding meetings to discuss the reopening strategies. Students, meanwhile, are also indecisive about whether they will attend classes in these institutes once they reopen. Special sessions a better optionKunal Singh, who runs a coaching centre in Sector 34, said, “If we are asked to teach classes in small batches with social distancing, it will not be feasible for the faculty to take so many classes. Some institutes in the city have batches of 300-400 students. How many classes will they take then? Rather, the coaching institutes can start doubt-clearing sessions for students. This way, appointments can be given to students and they will be easier to manage.”He added that many coaching institutes are unlikely to reopen because even if permission has been granted, it can be taken away too if the number of cases rise. “In case the classes are not allowed after a week, the students will want a refund and the faculty will want salaries, so it will be a riskier proposition. Online coaching is likely to continue.”Meanwhile, officials from the administration said that detailed instructions for coaching institutes were being prepared and likely to be released before December 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coaching-centres-in-chandigarh-unlikely-to-reopen-from-december-1/story-zDbwfyZVAmz6H1KUPLgYJJ.html
29-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh turns colder than Shimla||Mercury dropped to 8.7°C in early hours in Chandigarh, lower than minimum temperature of 9.2°C recorded in Shimla on Saturday. However, at 25.1°C, maximum temperature in the City Beautiful was higher than Shimla’s 18.9°C “After the recent snowfall in Himachal Pradesh, cold winds blowing down from the hills are cooling Chandigarh. Moisture content in Shimla was on the higher side than in Chandigarh, where the sky was clear,” said Surender Paul, director, India Meteorological Department, Chandigarh.Hazy conditions can be expected in the city in the next few days and humidity will stay on the higher side. Mist can form in open areas, especially during the morning and evening. Chances of the air quality becoming poorer will also rise in such conditions, said Paul. In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain around 24-25°C and minimum temperature will be around 9-11°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-turns-colder-than-shimla/story-iArrKv9JJXdpupINucMKMO.html
29-11-2020||Chandigarh||HC hauls up judicial officer for contempt proceedings against former Chandigarh SSP||Penal provisions of contempt have to be invoked with due circumspection, judicial restraint and sparingly, the Punjab and Haryana high court has said while giving relief to former Chandigarh senior superintendent of police (SSP) Nilambari Vijay Jagadale.Jagadale had challenged civil contempt proceedings order passed by a judicial magistrate first class, Chandigarh, on March 18 this year, for “violating court orders” passed on five occasions in 2017 and 2018. The police officer, who took over as the first woman SSP of the city in 2017, joined back services in Punjab after her tenure got over in August this year.“Their (contempt provisions) undue and indiscriminate use, particularly against public officers in connection with their official work, tends to unnecessarily embarrass, humiliate and demoralise them, thereby adversely affecting the discharge of their public functions without enhancing the dignity, respect and image of the courts,” the bench of justice Arun Monga said, while allowing Jagadale’s plea.  The caseThe case in which contempt proceedings were initiated is of cheating, filed by one Daya Nand Saini in 2008. It was being investigated by the economic offences wing (EOW) of Chandigarh Police. In March 2009, an incomplete challan was filed, but police assured court of submitting a supplementary challan, but failed to do so. In 2017, Saini filed an application for further probe, and the trial court ordered police to act on it. In June, July and August of 2017 and in January and April of 2018, besides the officers concerned, the SSP too was asked by the judicial officer to personally look into the matter. However, the SSP failed to respond, and in October 2018, Saini moved contempt plea against her and three other cops. A reply was filed, but the trial court was dissatisfied and initiated contempt proceedings in March 2020, said lawyer Gautam Dutt.What HC saidThe high court bench found that in November 2018, Saini had moved a plea before it, seeking a CBI probe. While disposing of the plea in September 2019, court was satisfied over the reasons given for delay in probe. It had come to light that the probe was stuck as record to be submitted for forensic examination was lying with the Chandigarh court. So, HC ordered that it be sent to forensic examination through a special messenger. Despite this, the judicial officer still proceeded with initiating contempt proceedings in March 2020 even as the SSP was not responsible for the delay. There was also no specific direction to the SSP to probe the FIR, the HC noted, adding that even if the delay was due to the police department, it would not be more than superintendence lapse on her part. The court also noted that when contempt application was moved in October 2018, court could not have taken its cognisance in 2020, as beyond one year, it is not permissible in law.“To say the least, judicial discipline and propriety required the magistrate to give due weightage and respect to the view taken by this court. Instead, the magistrate ignored the view of this court, by observing, contrary to the record, that there was no evidence on the file to show that any difficulty was expressed by the petitioner to comply with his (magistrate’s) orders,” the high court said. “His observations that rather it was for the first time that such a stand had been mentioned in the reply to the contempt petition; or the response was by an officer who was not facing contempt; or an incompetent officer had filed reply et alia (other contributors), fly in the face of the record,” the court further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-hauls-up-judicial-officer-for-contempt-proceedings-against-former-chandigarh-ssp/story-uaZ16JLf3vGRDXpL4mUWyK.html
29-11-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 test positivity rate drops below 8% in Delhi||Delhi on Saturday added fewer than 5,000 new cases of Covid-19 for the first weekday in over a month, despite a record number of gold-standard RT-PCR tests conducted in a single day, with the Capital’s test positivity rate falling below 8% for the first time since the third week of October. The Capital logged 4,998 new infections as per Saturday’s daily health bulletin, which records data primarily from a day earlier, on the back of a record 69,051 new tests, up significantly from 64,455 the previous day. Most of these additional tests were conducted using the more accurate reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method as per Saturday’s bulletin, which shot up from 28,100 the previous day to 33,147 — 48% of all tests conducted in Delhi on the day. The Delhi government aims to ramp up Covid-19 testing to between 100,000 and 120,000 a day, with an eye on performing half of these using the RT-PCR and other molecular methods such as TrueNAT and CBNAAT. As the numbers were released on Saturday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted, “Since 7 Nov, cases and positivity in Delhi are going down. Today, less than 5000 cases, 89 deaths and 7.24 positivity. Hope this trend continues. Delhiites and Delhi govt together will win over this third wave also. Pl continue to observe all precautions.” As a result of the drop in daily new cases and added tests, the positivity rate also dipped to 7.24%, the lowest since October 23. This number had shot up to 15.33% on November 15. Daily deaths dropped below 90 for the first time on Saturday in 16 days. With 89 deaths reported on Saturday, Delhi’s toll inched closer to 9,000. Till Saturday, 8,998 people had died of the infection in the city. “Although the number of cases is going down, I do not think it will go down to levels in August before the second and third surge in cases. With temperatures going down and pollution, there will likely be more cases in coming months,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology and infectious diseases at Indian Council of Medical Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-test-positivity-rate-drops-below-8/story-CCcLKiKDrqVlWgINrZNNrM.html
29-11-2020||City||Pregnant star tortoise rescued in Mumbai; diagnosed with bone disease||An abandoned and critically-ill pregnant Indian star tortoise was rescued by the Mumbai range of the forest department earlier this week. It has been diagnosed with an advanced stage of metabolic bone disease. The reptile was found abandoned in a building complex at Ghatkopar by a resident. He informed the forest department about it and they rescued the reptile, said Resqink Association for Wildlife Welfare (RAWW). It was later handed over to the Thane Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (TSPCA), where X-ray reports revealed that the tortoise was pregnant with three eggs. The vet, Dr Archana Bapat, then learnt that the tortoise had developed the bone disease. It is now under intensive care. “While this may not be a rare disease, the reptile has poor chances of survival presently. Its shell has turned rubber-soft due to the bone disease as its body starts absorbing calcium required for normal metabolic and hormonal functions from its shell, thereby causing excessive softening of the shell,” said Pawan Sharma, president, RAWW, adding, “Most of the star tortoises kept in illegal captivity are prone to this disease, which leads to a slow and extremely painful death.” Listed under Schedule IV of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, star tortoises are one of the most trafficked wildlife globally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pregnant-star-tortoise-rescued-in-mumbai-diagnosed-with-bone-disease/story-RvUWDQUqCk0A84oDt4cQLN.html
29-11-2020||Chandigarh||Housewives a high-risk group, account for 78.5% of cancer cases among Chandigarh women||A staggering 78.5% of the women in Chandigarh who developed cancer were housewives, the population-based cancer registry (PBCR) for the years 2015 and 2016 has revealed.The registry further reveals that one in every 8th woman and one in every 9th man in Chandigarh is at risk of developing cancer.“In the years 2015 and 2016, PBCR registered 1,800 cancer cases, of which 907 were males and 893 were females. The age-adjusted incidence rate for males is 96.6 per 1,00,000 population and for females, it is 100.9 per 1,00,000 population. The cumulative risk for the age group 0-74 years in males is 11.6% (1 in 9 men is at risk of developing cancer) and in females, it is 12.2% (1 in 8 females is at risk of developing cancer),” the report states.Of the 893 female cancer patients, 706 were housewives while 111 (12.4%) were government employees, the registry data shows. Among the men, government employees formed 42.3% of the total 907 cases.Population with a sedentary lifestyle at riskProfessor JS Thakur, principal investigator of the registry, said that most cases were found among the population with a sedentary lifestyle.“The part of the population which has a lifestyle involving little or no physical activity and a great amount of stress is at greater risk of having cancer, and the data gathered here in the registry reveals the same,” said Dr Thakur.Dr Pankaj Malhotra, professor of internal medicine and investigator of the registry, said that food habits and lack of regular exercise are the main factors of cancer among housewives.“Among women, breast cancer is the leading site, which is due to bad food habits, restricted activity, and high-stress levels. Most of the cases we receive at PGIMER are in the advanced stages because women do not screen themselves regularly. Regular exercise and low stress levels can decrease the incidence of cancer. The type of cancers in Chandigarh are mostly found in affluent societies which are linked to bad lifestyle,” said Dr Pankaj Malhotra. The third report of Population-Based Cancer Registry was released on Saturday by Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, in collaboration with Tata Memorial Centre, Mumbai, and Chandigarh health department. Report recommends programmes for early detectionThe report recommended early detection programmes, including etiological and survival analysis, with focus on breast, cervix uteri, oesophagus, prostate, lung and oral cancer. It also recommends that cancer should be made a notifiable disease in Chandigarh. There should be a robust mechanism for interstate sharing of data with neighboring states of Rajasthan and Haryana, it further stated. States may consider introducing an electronic medical record system under the National Digital Health Mission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/housewives-a-high-risk-group-for-cancer-account-for-78-5-of-cancer-cases-among-chandigarh-women/story-ZZBLzHPVUX3cet86hoETsO.html
29-11-2020||Mumbai||Drug racket bust: DRI arrests three with heroin worth ₹2 crore in Mumbai||Mumbai zone officials of the Directorate of Revenue intelligence (DRI) have seized around 400 grams of heroin worth about ₹2 crore which was smuggled in India through a courier parcel from South Africa. DRI arrested three people, including two Nigerian nationals, in a well-coordinated seven-day operation called ‘Operation Kruger’.A senior DRI official said they intercepted a parcel that had arrived from South Africa to the hub of an international courier company in Mumbai on the basis of a specific input, and examined the same. The parcel contained women’s gowns and the drugs were hidden in buttons attached to gowns.Officials noticed the abnormally large number of buttons sewn to the gowns. Upon further examination, they found around 396 grams of heroin hidden inside the buttons.DRI officials then seized the contraband material under relevant provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.In a bid to nab narcotics racket members linked to the seized heroin, DRI officials obtained authorisation for a controlled delivery from the director general of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on November 26.A team of DRI officials then went with the courier company’s vehicle and managed to nab the Indian national who came to accept the delivery. He revealed the details of the Nigerian national who was set to receive drugs from him. Following the information, the foreigner was nabbed. During questioning, the Nigerian national revealed details of one of his associates who is also a Nigerian national. DRI officials have also arrested the associate on Friday from Taloja.All the three arrested accused have been booked under relevant sections of the NDPS Act and have been sent to judicial custody by a city court.DRI officials said Operation Kruger was the fourth major drug bust of DRI Mumbai in the span of 10 days and is expected to cause major disruptions in the city’s drug supply chain which has deep transcontinental links extending to Africa and America.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/drug-racket-bust-dri-arrests-three-with-heroin-worth-2-crore-in-mumbai/story-bgYBPkrOmHRM33grFkKyoI.html
29-11-2020||Mumbai||Driver rescued after 2 hours of container toppling at Mumbra bypass||The driver of a container was stuck for more than two hours inside the vehicle after it toppled at Mumbra bypass on Saturday afternoon.The driver was rescued after the fire brigade and disaster management cell arrived two hours after the incident occurred at 12.40 pm. He escaped with injuries on his legs.According to Mumbra police, the driver Brijlal Jaiswal, 40, was going from Bhiwandi to Nhava Sheva. The container was filled with tar. He was not speeding. However, due to the narrow bypass road, he lost control of the vehicle near Uday Nagar on Mumbra bypass road, and fell 250 feet deep in the valley beside the road.Regional Disaster Management officer, Santosh Kadam, said, “As the container fell down 250 feet, the driver’s cabin was crushed. The driver tried to escape but his legs got stuck. After reaching the spot with the fire brigade team, we realised that we have to break and cut the cabin partially. Accordingly, our team started the rescue operations, cut the cabin and rescued the driver after two hours. Luckily the container didn’t fall on the houses that were just near the accident spot. The container is still on the spot and not yet removed.”The driver has been admitted to Chhatrapati Shivaji Hospital in Kalwa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/driver-rescued-after-2-hours-of-container-toppling-at-mumbra-bypass/story-sBtRQVKfwF74AOVD71pciP.html
29-11-2020||City||Five-year-old dies after getting stuck in lift door, falling 4 floors in Mumbai’s Dharavi||A five-year-old boy died in an elevator mishap in Dharavi on Saturday. A video of the incident, captured in the CCTV camera of the elevator, went viral. The police have registered an accidental death report (ADR) and are probing the case further.The victim, Mohammed Huzaifa Sarfaraz Shaikh, lived with his family on the fourth floor of Kozi Center building at Dharavi’s Cross Road. On Saturday, the child was playing with his two sisters in the building. When lift stopped on their floor, the three children entered inside and pressed buttons of upper floors, the police said. “The children didn’t close the door of the lift. The two girls then stepped out of the lift, but the boy got stuck between the grille and wooden safety doors of the lift. As the children had pressed the buttons of the upper floors, the lift went up and the boy fell down from the fourth floor to the bottom of the elevator’s shaft. He sustained head injuries and died,” said inspector Vilas Gangawane of Shahu Nagar police station.The boy’s mother learnt about the incident 45 minutes later, after she noticed blood stains on the elevator’s door while searching for her son, the police said. “The CCTV footage indicates that it was an accident. So we have filed an ADR and are probing if there was negligence on anyone’s part,” said Gangawane. “We appeal to citizens to keep a close eye on their children while they play outside, especially in buildings that have elevators. Residential societies must also depute liftman to avoid such mishaps,” Gangawane added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-year-old-dies-after-getting-stuck-in-lift-door-falling-4-floors-in-mumbai-s-dharavi/story-RjUpLIcI0sNOK3GSAGs2vJ.html
29-11-2020||Mumbai||Kalyan-Dombivli civic chief assures to implement rehab plan for project affected people||In a relief to the Project Affected People (PAP) of developmental projects, the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) commissioner has assured to implement a rehabilitation plan soon.The PAPs in several projects in the twin cities of Kalyan-Dombivli including the Ring Road project in Kalyan (W), the U-type road in Kalyan (E), Thakurli parallel road in Dombivli are still awaiting rehabilitation. The civic body did not have a rehabilitation plan in place. Thus, the rehabilitation was delayed.Vijay Suryavanshi, KDMC chief, said, “We will conduct meetings with those affected in road projects and formulate a rehabilitation plan on priority. Our officials have been asked to work on it, make a list of those affected and suggest rehabilitation options for them.”Those affected in the widening of the Siddharth Nagar U-type road in Kalyan (E) two decades ago are still fighting for rehabilitation.“I lost my one room kitchen in 2000. Even today, there is no alternate accommodation provided by the civic body. Initially, we went to the court, who asked to provide rehabilitation to 12-13 residents. The civic body had discussed this matter in the general body several times but still nothing has been done,” said Balu Anand Ubale, 61, who lives in Jimmibaugh with his family.Residents also formed a group, ‘Citizens Rehabilitation Committee’, to fight for the rehabilitation of the affected people. Since 2000, the KDMC has been trying to widen the U-type road extending from Katemanivali Naka to Tisgaon Naka by 24m to ease congestion on the road. However, residents and shop owners kept protesting, demanding the KDMC to first rehabilitate the people already affected by a demolition drive conducted in 2000.The committee said 18 families were affected in the demolition drive conducted in 2000 in Siddharth Nagar.“The rehabilitation committee of the civic body has approved the sanctioning of alternative space for those affected in the Siddharth Nagar project in 2014. However, all we got were false assurances. We want the civic body to first make a proper data on the properties available to them that they can hand over to the affected people. If a person who lives near the station is affected and is given a flat in the outskirts, what is the point of such rehabilitation?” said Uday Rasal, president of Citizens Rehabilitation Committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kalyan-dombivli-civic-chief-assures-to-implement-rehab-plan-for-project-affected-people/story-Mptb0N2qgLcFyHGtM9Ml4K.html
29-11-2020||Delhi||ICMR approves dry-swab RT-PCR method to ramp up Covid testing||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has approved the “dry swab-direct” RT-PCR method for Covid-19 testing, after finding it to be 96.9% in concordance with the current sample collection method. The process developed by researchers from the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology-Hyderabad (CCMB-H) skips a few steps done before performing the gold standard RT-PCR test, meaning it can help in scaling up Covid-19 testing two to three times at no additional cost. Under the new method, nasal swab samples can be directly put in a dry test tube for transportation instead of using a viral transport media (VTM), which is a solution that can keep the live virus stable for 72 hours without refrigeration. Using a dry tube instead of VTM also prevents spillage and contamination of samples that can result in the test throwing up false positives. The method also skips over the step of RNA extraction, with the samples being directly set up for RT-PCR following a simple processing. “Handling of the dry swab becomes extremely easy because there is no risk of spillage and the vials do not need to be sealed. In addition, we also skip the step of RNA extraction, which even with automation takes 4 hours for roughly 500 samples. This cuts down the time and the cost of an RT-PCR test by half. For example, for each test the VTM costs about ₹100, the RNA extraction kit about ₹200 to 250, and the additional steps also consumes a lot of plastic ware that will be eliminated,” said Dr Rakesh Mishra, director, CCMB. The organisation had been collecting and testing patient samples since April 2020 and had been able to identify the bottlenecks. The process was submitted for approval to the ICMR in June but the delay in approval had prompted the director of Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, which runs CCMB, had said, “What we needed in the country is to get science rid of the bureaucracy. In fact one thing that hinders science in India is our bureaucracy. We had announced dry swab in June and yet on today’s date, we don’t have regulatory approval for one reason or the other. It’s a shame.” He was speaking at a lecture in Pune International Centre (PIC) in September. Following this, ICMR had tweeted, “Scientific evaluation proved that despite initial promises, swabs collected from clinic attendees & transported in a dry test tube environment w/o VTM for RT-PCR & skipping RNA extraction in the laboratory, is not effective for diagnosis of SARS-CoV-2.” This prompted the researchers to add an enzyme to the process, making it more robust, and in concordance to the results given by the existing method even for samples with low viral load. “At our end, the results were similar to the traditional RT PCR method. However, in some settings and depending on people running and reading the tests, the samples where the CT value was high – meaning low viral load – the results could be interpreted as this way or that. As we do not do RNA extraction, we need to get an efficient amount of virus even from such samples. For that, we have added a cheap enzyme Proteinase K to the sample before putting it in RT PCR. This helps in getting more viral particles and proteins for the test to detect,” said Dr Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/icmr-approves-dry-swab-rt-pcr-method-to-ramp-up-covid-testing/story-qq2dTqnO0WZjBqc76xPZ6M.html
29-11-2020||Kolkata||As Suvendu Adhikari quits cabinet, CM to hold rallies in his strongholds||The Trinamool Congress in West Bengal decided on Saturday to step up public meetings in the poll-bound state in the wake of senior leader Suvendu Adhikari’s resignation from the cabinet, a development the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is looking to tap to up the ante against the Mamata Banerjee government.Banerjee is expected to hold rallies in some of the districts where Adhikari has a strong support base starting with West Midnapore on December 7; the chief minister will also hold a virtual meeting with all district-level leaders on December 4. On Saturday, Abhishek Banerjee, TMC MP and the chief minister’s nephew, and poll strategist Prashant Kishor held a meeting with party leaders of Malda district. TMC leaders from East Midnapore have been directed to attend the December 7 rally. “The leadership not only wants to take stock but also wants to boost the morale of the party workers ahead of the polls,” said a TMC leader. The ruling party received a double blow on Friday with not just Adhikari quitting the cabinet, but another party veteran Mihir Goswami joining the BJP. “Suvendu is still a party member. So talks can still be held. His mother is unwell, so it may take some time. But I am hopeful,” said Saugata Roy, TMC MP. Party insiders said some leaders from Malda were absent at the meeting called by Abhishek Banerjee and Kishor in Kolkata on Monday. The BJP sharpened its attack on the TMC. State president Dilip Ghosh said, “Didi has failed in disaster management of the state and now is busy with the disaster management of the party.” The TMC said Ghosh was daydreaming.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/as-suvendu-adhikari-quits-cabinet-cm-to-hold-rallies-in-his-strongholds/story-28KScz903ut7cRIfTCb7eI.html
29-11-2020||Delhi||Can vaccinate all of Delhi in a month: Satyendar Jain||Expressing confidence in the health facilities, Delhi health minister Satyender Jain on Saturday said that the entire population of the national capital will be vaccinated within three to four weeks after a vaccine is available.“Whenever the vaccine is available in Delhi, within three to four weeks it will be administered all over the national capital with the help of our health facilities such as polyclinics, mohalla clinics, dispensaries, hospitals, etc,” Jain told reporters here.The health minister said that there are no issues with the storage of vaccines in the city.“Yesterday, Delhi reported 5,482 new Covid-19 positive cases. The positivity rate was 8.51 per cent. In Delhi, the positivity rate was over 15 per cent on November 7, which has come down. This is a relief,” he said.Jain said that as many as 50 per cent of the beds are vacant in the national capital and added that 1,200 ICU beds are also available. “Yesterday, there was some problem with oxygen. But the issue with oxygen supply has now been resolved,” he added.Speaking about the farmers’ protest, Jain said that the demonstrations are being conducted in a peaceful manner and should be permitted to continue.On Friday, the Delhi government had rejected a request made by the Delhi Police seeking permission to convert nine stadiums in the national capital into temporary prisons, in view of the Delhi Chalo farmers’ protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/can-vaccinate-all-of-delhi-in-a-month-satyendar-jain/story-u0qph243n0njccAFiEm2KJ.html
29-11-2020||Delhi||As part of new containment strategy, RT-PCR tests for all ‘high-risk’ residents of Delhi’s hot spots||As part of a revised policy for containment zones in the city likely to be enforced next week, districts in Delhi may continue with the micro-containment policy in terms of size of sealed areas, even as testing and surveillance are scaled up in these places to better arrest the spread of Covid-19.Under the current containment strategy in the Capital, district administrations are entrusted with conducting RT-PCR tests on all symptomatic people and contacts of positive cases.Under the revised policy, district administrations expected to, inside containment zones, be required to conduct RT-PCR tests, the most reliable diagnosis for the coronavirus disease, on all residents aged above 60, pregnant women, and individuals with comorbidities, irrespective of symptoms or direct contact with active cases, said senior government officials aware of the new policy.They further said, districts will have to ensure follow-up health checks on such “high-risk” individuals periodically even after the containment zones are de-notified.Currently, over 220,000 people live in Delhi’s 5,200-odd containment zones spread across the city’s 11 revenue districts.The revised policy – drafted by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) – is likely to be implemented from Monday, senior officials said, adding that district magistrates had been briefed about the strategy by chief secretary Vijay Dev earlier this week.In his meeting with Delhi’s Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on November 15, Union home minister Amit Shah had recommended a revised containment policy for Delhi in the light of the severe spike in cases and increased number of deaths. Baijal is the chairperson of the DDMA and Kejriwal the vice-chairperson.“The policy of micro containment zones will continue. Micro containment zones have enabled the government to spread out and cover a larger share of active cases and contacts. Tests and surveillance in the containment zones will be further scaled up,” Delhi’s revenue minister Kailash Gahlot, who is also a member of the DDMA, said.A similar testing policy covering all elderly people and “high-risk” individuals living inside containment zones was implemented once in June, when Delhi had witnessed the first instance of severe spike in Covid-19 cases. However, those tests were conducted the rapid antigen method, which though faster, is known to be far less accurate than the RT-PCR method.“As cases went down, the testing policy was revised. Even though rapid antigen tests show results quickly, it was a massive exercise because containment zones were much larger back then,” said a senior revenue department official who did not wish to be identified.The current policy of RT-PCR tests on all symptomatic people and contacts of Covid-19 cases living inside containment zones was implemented in mid-September when Delhi witnessed the second instance of surge of Covid-19 infections.In November the city witnessed the third – and the most severe so far – spike in cases, which necessitated the revised strategy.Dr Jacob John, former head of clinical virology, Christian Medical College in Vellore, Tamil Nadu, said: “These are all welcome moves from a health management perspective. Micro containment zones are easier to manage. RT-PCR tests on more people would help in isolating more Covid-19 cases and ensuring that these containment zones do not turn into hotspots at any point. As far as recordkeeping of the elderly and vulnerable are concerned, it should be done across Delhi now. Follow-up checks are very important in Covid-19 and it is not a labour-intensive job as well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/as-part-of-new-containment-strategy-rt-pcr-tests-for-all-high-risk-residents-of-delhi-s-hot-spots/story-roQlHF26rfe8HziUtiSTsM.html
29-11-2020||Chandigarh||Guest Column: Waiting for the dawn of a Covid free era||The year that saw the world in the group of a pandemic, the one ray of hope is the Covid-19 vaccine. As reported in various newspapers, a number of Covid-19 vaccines are in the final stages of trials and are likely to hit the market soon for phased use. If priority approvals are given by licensing authorities in India and elsewhere, the vaccines could be available at the dawn of 2021. It has been reported in the media that the Oxford Vaccine developed by Oxford University and British-Swedish multinational pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical company AstraZeneca is 70.4% effective in its trials in India and abroad. People are now relieved knowing that, at last, there is some shield available against the deadly virus that has affected over 60.18 million people around the world and has taken at least 1.41 million lives globally. The Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine will be produced in India by Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII). As reported, 40 million doses have already been manufactured and will be released as soon as permissions are obtained from the regulatory authorities for its use for the public. As stated by Dr Cyrus Poonawalla, founder of SII, to the media, another 60 million doses can be produced in the next 45 to 60 daysThat’s not all. There are around 164 candidate Covid-19 vaccines in pre-clinical evaluation, 48 vaccines in the stage of clinical evaluation, of which about 11 are in the final stages of phase three testing, the final trial and testing stage. So now it’s a matter of time before a variety of Covid-19 vaccines flood the market, but the advantage will lie with companies that hit the market first. Since the vaccine will be available in the market in another two months or so, maybe less, the most important question is the pricing factor. US based Pfizer and BioNTech, also at an advanced stage of developing their vaccine, have announced an estimated price at $19, while Moderna, also US-based, says its price will be an estimated $25 to $37. These vaccines, however, will then be uneconomical for countries like India. However, SII CEO Adar Poonawalla has stated that Covishield will be priced at around $3 a dose (approximately Rs 225) for the government and around $7 to $8 a dose (approximately Rs 600) for the general public in India. Since the vaccine will be launched soon and the immunisation process is going to take a long time, the Indian government’s role will be vital in the areas of its procurement and distribution. Infrastructure has to be in place for its storage and transportation across the country, which is going to be a big challenge. As demand will be huge in the first stage, the government should take command of its resources and act as an intermediary to procure the vaccine in bulk for rationing the same among the public. At whatever price it may procure the Oxford-AstroZeneca vaccine, the government has to provide it at a highly subsidised rate, which will not only bring immense relief to the public but also generate a lot of goodwill among the masses. It has already been made clear that the vaccine will be reserved at the first stage for priority groups such as frontline health workers and emergency cases, including the elderly and a data bank of such persons has already been created. The launch of the vaccine will not only save lives, but also give enough confidence to people to get out and about without fear of getting infected. It will also set the agenda for the economic, social and psychological reconstruction of the country. India is in and advantageous position during the pandemic as companies like SII, Dr Reddy’s Laboratories and Bharat Biotech make it one of the world’s biggest vaccine makers. Bharat Biotech has the capacity to produce 500 million doses and the SII 800 million doses annually. Vaccines developed anywhere in the world, therefore, would need Indian manufacturers’ support for its production and distribution. Everyone is now waiting eagerly for announcements of the Covid-19 launch, the new dawn in an era free of the pandemic.jrk7860@gmail.comThe writer is a retired civil servant. Views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/guest-column-waiting-for-the-dawn-of-a-covid-free-era/story-pNrxPytExeVUKoCnNv1jkN.html
29-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chitkara University develops neural amplifier silicon chip||The VLSI Centre of Excellence, Chitkara University, in collaboration with Semi-Conductor Laboratory (SCL), Mohali, has designed and fabricated a low-voltage, low-noise neural amplifier silicon chip in 0.18 µm technology, useful for the diagnosis of various chronic diseases such as Parkinson, spinal cord injuries, Epilepsy and paralysis etc. It was released during an event at Chitkara University campus in the presence of pro chancellor Madhu Chitkara, vice-chancellor Archana Mantri, and HS Jatana, the group head, design and process group, semi-conductor laboratory (SCL), Mohali. Speaking on the occasion, Madhu Chitkara said that the university is committed to promoting the cause of research and innovation.Vice-chancellor Archana Mantri expressed her happiness on how outcome-based research was benefitting the society. She congratulated Dr Rajnish Sharma, lead-VLSI Center of Excellence, under whose guidance Dr Kulbhushan Sharma could accomplish this challenging task.HS Jatana congratulated the whole team of Chitkara University and applauded the support provided by university management to faculty members and students to involve themselves in such tasks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chitkara-university-develops-nueral-amplifier-silicon-chip/story-JBfMytWMH9l8UytBMSrffO.html
29-11-2020||Pune||Pune policeman loses Rs 1.3 lakh in card cloning fraud||An assistant sub-inspector of Pune police lost Rs 1.3 lakh in card cloning fraud between November 1 and November 4.The complainant was identified as Jameel Shaikh, (57), a resident of Kondhwa Khurd.The card of the complainant was cloned from an ATM in Pune Camp area where he lives, according to the police.Once cloned, multiple transactions were made through his card from places in and outside of Pune.Through multiple transactions, none of which exceeded Rs 9,000 in withdrawal amount, a total of Rs 1,30,000 were withdrawn using the cloned card, according to the police.The cyber crime cell is tracking the case along with the local police.A case under Sections 419 (punishment for cheating by personation) and 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code and Section 66(c) and 66(d) of the Information Technology Act was registered at Lashkar police station. Police inspector AN Hazare of Lashkar police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-policeman-loses-rs-1-3-lakh-in-card-cloning-fraud/story-xFp7DR000gOjaLBmnP2NfI.html
29-11-2020||Pune||Two strike ATM at Baner, decamp with Rs 5.7 lakh||A cash machine of a co-operative bank was robbed by two men on Friday morning. The theft came to light when customers trying to withdraw money from the ATM could not do so and approached the bank.The theft happened at the co-operative bank’s branch along Baner road between 7am and 7:15am on Friday.A total of Rs 5,72,500 was stolen from the vault of the bank ATM.“The bank had filled around Rs 6 lakh cash on November 24. On November 27 afternoon, two customers complained of no cash in the machine. So, the bank employees checked to find the cash vault empty. They checked the CCTV camera footage and found the men to have opened it and fled with the cash,” said sub-inspector Mahesh Bhosale of Chatuhshrungi police station who is investigating the case.Of the two men caught on the CCTV camera footage, one has covered his face while the other has not, according to the police. However, neither of their identities has been ascertained yet.Police are verifying the whereabouts of the security posted at the ATM when the incident took place.A case under Section 380 (theft in dwelling house) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Chatuhshrungi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/two-strike-atm-at-baner-decamp-with-rs-5-7-lakh/story-RLQjYZAYcmsZYfekzXDTFN.html
29-11-2020||Pune||Labour contractor’s body found in Mulshi; roommate missing||A decomposed body of a labour contractor was found at his residence in Jambe village of Mulshi on Friday. The police suspect his roommate killed him.The deceased was identified as Ganpat Sadashiv Sangale (24), a resident of Kalas in Indapur.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Suresh Nivrutti Mohite, (55), a resident of the same village and the owner of the room that Sangale had rented.The main suspect in the case is Sangale’s roommate Arvind Yadav. The police are on a lookout for Yadav, a native of Uttar Pradesh. The man is suspected to have killed Sangale for money. The deceased was found with grievous head injuries on his head caused by a blunt object, according to the police.“They are both labour contractors and lived together. The door was locked from outside since November 24 and the owner, who lives nearby, forced the door open after foul smell emanated from the rented room,” said senior inspector Balkrushna Sawant of Hinjewadi police station.Yadav took the ATM card of the deceased and has withdrawn Rs 42,000 from his account, according to the police.“After November 24, there are three transactions of Rs 10,000 and three of Rs 4,000 from his account,” said Sawant.A case under Section 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code was registered against the deceased man’s roommate at Hinjewadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/labour-contractor-s-body-found-roommate-missing/story-JNVm1VPj1TjQKVqfcDMe1K.html
29-11-2020||Pune||Thieves threaten security guards, rob two sandalwood trees worth worth Rs 3,500 from Shimla office campus||Four unidentified men were booked for threatening security guards at the Shimla office which houses the India Meteorological Department (IMD) and robbing two sandalwood trees from the campus.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Ganesh Adagale (55), a resident of Kasba peth, who works as a security guard at the historic building.The men cut down two sandalwood trees on campus, which are estimated to be worth Rs 3,500, said police.“The office does not have CCTV camera facility. Three security guards are posted there. We are speaking with them and investigation is on,” said sub-inspector S Mahangade of Shivajinagar police station, who is investigating the case. The men were carrying a long knife used to cut trees, according to the complainant.A case under Sections 392 (punishment for robbery) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code along with Section 4(25) of Arms Act has been registered at Shivajinagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/thieves-threaten-security-guards-rob-two-sandalwood-trees-worth-worth-rs-3-500-from-shimla-office-campus/story-0b0DgkadmzxTbpGlHM2NiJ.html
29-11-2020||Delhi||Work from home for 50% staff of Delhi government||The Delhi government will once again implement a work from home (WFH) policy from next week for at least 50% of the total working strength, excluding bureaucrats, in government offices and departments that are not on the frontline of Covid-19 management, said senior government officials on SaturdayThey further said that the decision was taken in the light of the high number of infections recorded across the city.Delhi on Saturday reported 4,998 cases and 89 fatalities, taking the total number of cases and deaths so far to 561,742 and 8998 respectively. Also, with 69,051 cases conducted on Saturday, the positivity rate was recorded at 7.24%, according to the government’s daily bulletin.The proposal regarding the WFH policy was sent by the revenue department of the government to the office of Delhi’s lieutenant governor Anil Baijal on Thursday. The proposal got Baijal’s approval on Saturday.Delhi’s revenue minister Kailash Gahlot confirmed the development and said, “This is a precautionary measure. We are doing everything to arrest the spread of Covid-19.”The Delhi government had implemented a similar policy during the nationwide lockdown and most departments continued working with 50% physical strength till June 30. With restrictions scaled down from July, the order was relaxed in a phased manner.A senior government official, who did not wish to be identified, said that the proposal was drafted on November 25 after the Union home ministry issued guidelines concerning restrictions and relaxations for December, in which it observed that offices have emerged as transmission points and asked states to consider staggered timings and work from home options.Delhi government has around 150 departments and a working strength of around 250,000.The proposal does not cover departments such as health, district administrations, home guards, civil defence, prison staff and water supply, or other departments, which may not be directly on frontline, but which have pressed considerable amount of working staff on covid-19 duty, such as education, food and labour, the government official said.The proposal also does not include Grade I officers – IAS officers, DANICS officers and those promoted to equivalent ranks, the official added.All head of departments have been asked to prepare working schedules in this regard by December 1, said the official.HT had earlier reported that a total of 2,487 employees of the Delhi government contracted the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease between March and October 13, of which 89 succumbed to the virus, citing response to an RTI.The Capital at present is going through a third surge of Covid-19. While the highest number of cases in a day (8,593) was recorded on November 11, the highest deaths in a day (131) were on November 18. The case positivity rate had touched 15.26% on November 7.“Overall positivity in Delhi is coming down since 7 Nov. This is 8.65% now as compared to 15.26% on Nov 7. For the last 7 consecutive days cases are less than 7,000,” Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain said in a tweet on Friday.The government maintains that both cases and positivity rate are gradually coming down. Health minister Jain had shared data that showed that between November 1 and 25, a total of 1,314,385 Covid-19 tests were conducted in Delhi – of which 457,683 were RT-PCR tests and the rest rapid antigen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/work-from-home-for-50-staff-of-delhi-government/story-5fM7jwQE2DuIUfFUUlgfNI.html
29-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi riots: Court orders police to supply copy of charge sheet to Umar Khalid||A Delhi court on Saturday directed the Delhi Police to supply the copy of supplementary charge sheet to former JNU student Umar Khalid after he moved an application, stating that he does not even have the copy of the document to defend himself. Khalid, in his plea, said there was a vicious media campaign against him through stories purportedly quoting him from the police’s charge sheet.During an urgent hearing on Saturday, Khalid’s lawyer, Trideep Pais, told additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat that he sought a soft copy of the charge sheet even though the earlier date for supplying charge sheet to the arrested persons was December 2.During the hearing, Pais told the court that the media was already reporting the contents of the charge sheet when he does not have a copy of it.During the hearing, special public prosecutor Amit Prasad, appearing for the police, denied the allegations raised by Khalid.. He said that they do not have any problem in supplying a soft copy of the charge sheet.The court said that it would not go into the allegations and counter allegations and directed that the charge sheet be supplied in a pen drive.Khalid, JNU student Sharjeel Imam and Faizan Khan have been charge sheeted for the offences under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and various sections of the Indian Penal Code, including murder, rioting, unlawful assembly, sedition, criminal conspiracy in connection to the north east Delhi riots.On November 24, the court while taking cognisance of the supplementary charge sheet, had also directed the police to supply the charge sheets to all the accused on December 2.The Delhi police had filed a 1000-page supplementary charge sheet against the three accused. Prior to this, the Special Cell had also filed 17,500 pages charge sheet against 15 accused including AAP councilor Tahir Hussain, former Cong councilor Ishrat Jahan, Pinjra tod members-Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, and other student activists for hatching a conspiracy to orchestrate the riots.Communal violence had broken out in northeast Delhi in February 2020 after initial clashes between citizenship law supporters and protesters went out of control and resulted in clashes between Hindus and Muslims. The riots left at least 53 people dead and around 400 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-riots-court-orders-police-to-supply-copy-of-charge-sheet-to-umar-khalid/story-NBmQIQiKjSrIpbRiprKZ9N.html
29-11-2020||Pune||271 passengers tested in 3 days at airport, only nine Covid-19 +ve||Three days since the state government issued orders making it mandatory for flight passengers arriving from Delhi, Gujarat and Jaipur to carry a Covid-19 negative report, 271 passengers have been tested at Pune’s Lohegaon airport. Of those tested, nine have been found Covid-19 positive in the RT-PCR tests. On the first day, 130 flight passengers did not have a negative RT-PCR report with them and so, they were tested, of which six tested Covid-19 positive. On the second day, of the 63 tested for Covid-19, only two tested positive and on the third day, of the 78 passengers who were tested, only one had been Covid-19 positive. All these were RT-PCR tests as per the guidelines issued by the state government and most of the passengers were asymptomatic. Passengers coming in flights from Mumbai or Pune from Delhi, Rajasthan, Gujrat and Goa will be subjected to mandatory testing. An RT-PCR negative test report (with the sample collection done within 72 hours of scheduled arrival) is a must before boarding which needs to be shown to authorities before arrival. Shravan Mutha, Covid-19 manager at the airport kiosk of Krsnaa Diagnostics, said, “Most of the patients arriving from these three cities are subjected to testing if they do not have a negative RT-PCR report. All the tests are conducted only through RT-PCR as per the state government guidelines. Once the reports come, and they test positive, we inform the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) for further action like contact tracing and isolation.” Kuldeep Singh, airport director, said, “All the necessary precautions are in place for testing. The sample collection centre has been completely sanitised and social distancing is maintained. The precautions have been put in place and all the passengers are handed blank forms which seek address and contact details.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/271-passengers-tested-in-three-days-at-pune-airport-only-nine-covid-19-positive/story-isTe9M6adG0yttSM6Ynl4M.html
29-11-2020||City||Ludhiana police to resume ‘Know Your Case’ service from November 21||The city police have decided to resume the “Know Your Case” service from November 21 after a gap of seven months.Under the scheme, victims, complainants and accused have the right to know the status of investigation and inquiry in FIRs and complaints.It covers all police stations, economic offences wing, child and women cell, anti-human trafficking, traffic, cyber crime cell and licensing unit. A service-oriented scheme, it is aimed at bringing greater transparency and accountability in the police functioning, and increasing police-public interaction.Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal said the first camp under the scheme will be held on November 21. All police stations, police posts and units will be covered under this. Thereafter, 8-10 police stations and units will offer the service taking turns on Saturdays as per a schedule. This will ensure time-bound disposal of cases and complaints, he added “Any complainant desirous of knowing the status of their complaint, case or petition can visit the police station or unit concerned from 10am to 2pm on the designated Saturday. Gazetted officers, along with the SHOs, investigation officers and in-charges of the units will remain present. Investigation officer will apprise the complainant of the case status,” the police chief said.“The ADCP concerned of each sub-division and unit will personally monitor the whole process. Besides, joint commissioner of police and deputy commissioner police-level officers will supervise on each Saturday. They will also interact with the complainants to ensure effective implementation of this scheme. Case property will also be handed over then and there,” he added.A unique aspect of this scheme is that if a complainant or petitioner is not satisfied with the investigation, inquiry or the manner in which investigation is being done by the investigation officer, they can raise objections with the SHO and gazetted officer on the spot. They can also directly approach senior officers present there. Those who are still not satisfied will be given time to meet the police chief to present their case.The top cop had suspended hearing of cases under “Know Your Case” scheme on March 20 in view of the Coronavirus outbreak in the region. It was launched on November 28, 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-police-to-resume-know-your-case-service-from-november-21/story-Ovi9NRJU4wNWYQDk5ushxL.html
29-11-2020||World||China to build a super dam on its part of Brahmaputra river||China will build a “super” dam on the lower reaches of the Yarlung Zangbo river close to the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Tibet, a state media report said on Sunday, in a move that could have a far-reaching impact on northeast India’s water security.Originating in the Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR), the trans-border Yarlung Zangbo flows into Arunachal Pradesh where it is called Siang and then to Assam as Brahmaputra before flowing into Bangladesh.The state media report indicated that the dam could come up in the Medog county of TAR, which is close to Arunachal Pradesh.China has already built several smaller dams on the Yarlung Zangbo river.The new dam’s ability to generate hydropower could be three times that of central China’s Three Gorges Dam, which has the largest installed hydropower capacity in the world.The new dam will be built with focus on maintaining China’s national security.“China will build a hydropower project on the Yarlung Zangbo River, one of the major waters in Asia that also passes through India and Bangladesh,” the state-run tabloid Global Times said in a report on Sunday evening.“There is no parallel in history (of the project… it will be a historic opportunity for the Chinese hydropower industry,” Yan Zhiyong, chairman of the Power Construction Corp of China, or Powerchina said at a conference last week.The initial work on the dam began with Powerchina on October 16 signing a strategic cooperation agreement covering the 14th Five-Year Plan with the TAR government.The news regarding the new dam was published on an official social media platform of the ruling Communist Party of China’s (CPC) Youth League last week.Yan added that the hydropower exploitation of the Yarlung Zangbo river downstream “is more than a hydropower project. It is also meaningful for the environment, national security, living standards, energy and international cooperation.”China will “implement hydropower exploitation in the downstream of the Yarlung Zangbo river,” Yan said, adding that the plan put forward in the proposals for formulating the country’s 14th Five-Year Plan (2021-25) and its long-term goals through 2035 made by the CPC’s Central Committee.According to Yan, the 60 million kWh hydropower exploitation at the downstream of the Yarlung Zangbo river could provide 300 billion kWh of clean, renewable and zero-carbon electricity annually.“The project will play a significant role in realising China’s goal of reaching a carbon emissions peak before 2030 and carbon neutrality in 2060,” Yan said.“Speculations about China planning to build a ‘super hydropower station’ in Medog county, where the Yarlung Zangbo Grand Canyon is located, have circulated for years. Medog, with a population of about 14,000, was China’s last county to be connected to the outside world with a highway,” the Global Times report said.Academics have long pointed out China’s strategic advantage over India in terms of international transboundary rivers.“China has claimed express ownership over Tibet’s waters, making it an upstream controller of seven of South Asia’s mightiest rivers – the Indus, Ganges, Brahmaputra, Irrawaddy, Salween, Yangtze, and Mekong. These rivers flow into Pakistan, India, Bangladesh, Myanmar, Laos and Vietnam, and form the largest river run-off from any single location…Nearly half that water, 48%, runs directly into India,” a Lowy Institute report said in July this year in the backdrop of the ongoing India-China border friction in eastern Ladakh.India and China have a water data sharing agreement.In 2017, China had stopped sharing data soon after the 73-day long stand-off between Indian and Chinese troops at Doklam near the Sikkim border over Chinese military’s plans to build a road close to India’s Chicken Neck corridor connecting North-Eastern states.In 2018, a MoU was inked between China’s Ministry of Water Resources and India’s Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation on sharing hydrological information of the Brahmaputra river in flood season by China to India.The agreement enables China to provide hydrological data in flood season from May 15 to October 15 every year. It also enables the Chinese side to provide hydrological data if water level exceeds mutually agreed level during non-flood season.Beijing also shares data on rivers flowing into north India. But the apprehension that China could “weaponise” cross-border rivers remains.“For India, the one domain in which China’s status as the “upper riparian” provides an almost insurmountable challenge is in ensuring shared access to transboundary rivers. And as the recent clashes on the Sino-Indian border have made clear, India needs to assess how China might “weaponise” its advantage over those countries downstream. Control over these rivers effectively gives China a chokehold on India’s economy,” the July Lowy report added.The Global Times report quoted an expert saying that dams on cross-border projects cannot be developed without the cooperation between upstream and downstream countries.“Hydropower projects on cross-border rivers cannot be developed without communication and cooperation between upstream and downstream countries,” Lin Boqiang, director of the China Center for Energy Economics Research at Xiamen University, told the tabloid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-to-build-a-super-dam-on-its-part-of-brahmaputra-river/story-i4No1OJ9JuxMEJEwCtNrTO.html
29-11-2020||World||Democrat Schumer says $30 billion needed in federal funds to distribute Covid vaccine||Senate minority leader Chuck Schumer said on Sunday that $30 billion in federal funds was needed to distribute the Covid-19 vaccine as legislative negotiations over an economic relief bill remain stalled.Schumer, a Democrat, said that New York state alone would need “hundreds of millions” for distribution and education work around the distribution of the vaccine.“This should be a moment of clarity for everyone,” Schumer, who represents New York, told reporters in a brief press conference. “This is a huge crisis and we need big relief.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/democrat-schumer-says-30-billion-needed-in-federal-funds-to-distribute-covid-vaccine/story-bM4mVJmsfWwtc3qBofi8gM.html
29-11-2020||World||Dr Fauci warns Americans to brace for ‘surge upon surge’ of coronavirus||Americans should brace for a “surge upon a surge” in the coronavirus as millions of travelers return home after the Thanksgiving holiday, US government scientist Anthony Fauci said Sunday.“There almost certainly is going to be an uptick because of what has happened with the travel,” Fauci told CNN’s “State of the Union.” “We may see a surge upon a surge” in two or three weeks, he added. “We don’t want to frighten people, but that’s the reality.”This was an ominous trend, Fauci added, with the Christmas holidays and more year-end travel looming, he said.The virus is blamed for more than 266,000 deaths in the US, the hardest-hit country in the world, with cooler weather bringing daily death figures nearing the worst levels of April.- Pre-positioned vaccine -Fauci’s comments came as US news media reported that first shipments of the Pfizer vaccine against Covid-19 -- one of the first to claim high effectiveness, along with a Moderna product -- had arrived in the United States from a Pfizer lab in Belgium.Pfizer was using charter flights to pre-position vaccine for quick distribution once it receives US approval -- expected as early as December 10 -- the Wall Street Journal and other media reported.The Pfizer and Moderna vaccines, both said to be safe and perhaps 95 percent effective, have introduced a much-needed glimmer of hope after months of gloomy news.“This puts the end to the pandemic. This is the way we get out of the pandemic. The light is at the end of the tunnel,” Admiral Brett Giroir, the US official overseeing coronavirus testing, told CNN.But like Fauci he expressed grave concerns about the months immediately ahead.“Our hospitalizations are peaking right now at about 95,000,” Giroir said. “About 20 percent of all people in the hospital have Covid, so this is a really dangerous time.”Until large numbers of Americans have been vaccinated -- Giroir said half the eligible population might be by March -- much will depend on people taking the recommended precautions, including mask-wearing and distancing, he and Fauci said.Giroir said it might take until the second or third quarter of next year for most Americans to be vaccinated, but that substantial benefits would accrue much sooner.By first vaccinating those at highest risk, he said, “we can absolutely get 80 percent of the benefit of the vaccine by only immunizing a few percent of the population.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fauci-warns-americans-to-brace-for-surge-upon-surge-of-coronavirus/story-DEOqmQUMUVWP9KoB1kARAN.html
29-11-2020||World||‘I wasn’t there’: Man charged in family’s death near Disney||A Connecticut physical therapist charged with killing his wife and three children at their Florida home told his sister in a phone call from jail that he couldn’t have stopped his family from being slain — because he wasn’t around.“I couldn’t stop this because I wasn’t there,” Anthony Todt told his sister Chrissy Caplet in recordings of one of two phone calls obtained by The Day of New London, Connecticut.Authorities allege that Todt, who worked in Connecticut and spent weekends with his family in Florida, killed his wife and three children, as well as the family dog. The decomposing bodies were discovered Jan. 13, a Monday, in the family’s home in Celebration, a planned community near Walt Disney World and developed by the Walt Disney Co.Todt, 45, claimed in a June 19 letter to his father obtained by the Orlando Sentinel that his wife, Megan, had drugged the children and then stabbed and suffocated them. Todt wrote that his wife then drank a bottle of Benadryl and stabbed herself in the abdomen.He made similar claims in the two phone calls to his sister in March and April, suggesting that Megan Todt had tried to kill the children before. “There were multiple attempts, just so you know, multiple attempts in the last ... over a time frame, there’s been attempts,” Todt said.FBI agents found Todt inside the home in Celebration with the bodies of his family when they arrived to arrest him on a warrant stemming from a health care fraud investigation in Connecticut.Investigators with the Osceola County Sheriff’s Office said Todt confessed at the time of his arrest to killing Megan, 42; their children, Alek, 13, Tyler, 11, and Zoe, 4; and the dog, Breezy.Prosecutors have said they intend to seek the death penalty for Todt, who has been indicted on four counts of first-degree murder. He has pleaded not guilty.Defense attorneys have not spoken publicly about Todt’s claim that his wife was the real killer. An email seeking comment was sent to Orange-Osceola public defender Robert Wesley.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/i-wasn-t-there-man-charged-in-family-s-death-near-disney/story-tZmCkamub18fH4iKQYgLZJ.html
29-11-2020||World||Muslims in Nepal hold protest demanding justice for China’s Uyghur||Muslims in Nepal on Sunday organised a protest against atrocities on Uyghur Muslims in the Xinjiang province of China.The protesters raised voice against the demolition of thousands of mosques in Xinjiang and the treatment being meted out to them by the Chinese government.Muslims in Pokhara also joined the international community in expressing their views on the gruesome human rights violations against Uyghur Muslims.The Muslim Kalyankari Samaj held a protest in Pokhara highlighting the severe anxiety and anger among local Muslims against Uyghur in China.The community leaders said that they would keep raising their concern against atrocities on Uyghurs in the future as well.Similar protests were held in Nepal a few days ago.For the last six years, millions of East Turkistan people, mostly of Muslim faith, have been held in concentration camps, prisons, and slave labour camps.According to survivors’ accounts, they are being tortured, killed for their organs, raped, sterilised and executed.Classified documents known as the China Cables, accessed last year by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists, threw light on how the Chinese government uses technology to control Uyghur Muslims worldwide.However, China regularly denies such mistreatment and says the camps provide vocational training. People in the internment camps have described being subjected to forced political indoctrination, torture, beatings, and denial of food and medicine, and say they have been prohibited from practising their religion or speaking their language.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/muslims-in-nepal-hold-protest-demanding-justice-for-china-s-uyghur/story-1Z21TegnpZYES8KK4DHpSL.html
29-11-2020||World||UK poised to be first to clear Pfizer-BioNTech Covid vaccine||The UK is poised to become the first country to approve Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE’s Covid-19 vaccine, ahead of a long line of countries waiting for protection from the coronavirus.Clearance is possible as soon as early next week, according to a person familiar with the situation, who asked not to be identified because the process is confidential.The UK had long signaled it would move fast on any promising vaccine candidate, and British doctors have been put on standby for a possible rollout before Christmas. Russia and China have cleared vaccines for general use, but they’re unlikely to be adopted in the US and Europe.The British government last week invoked a special rule allowing its drug regulator to bypass the European Union counterpart as the country prepares for the Brexit transition period to conclude at the end of this year. And the UK’s Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency has started its own accelerated review.“We hope, subject to the regulatory approvals, to be in a position to be able to have rolled out the vaccine sufficiently by, say, the spring to enable us to have a big change in the way we approach things,” UK Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab told the BBC’s Andrew Marr show Sunday. Raab said he hoped that vaccine roll-out could begin “before Christmas,” with life returning to something “akin to normal” by spring 2021.Click here for complete coverage of the coronavirus pandemicEarlier this week, the MHRA said it had the data it needed to assess whether the Pfizer vaccine meets required standards and would “make a decision in the shortest time possible, without compromising the thoroughness of our review.” The shot was 95% effective in a clinical trial of almost 44,000 people, with no significant safety problems so far.An MHRA spokesperson declined to comment. Pfizer said in a statement that it doesn’t speculate on how long the review process will last or how it will end. A BioNTech representative didn’t immediately have a comment.The first injections could take place from December 7, the Financial Times reported earlier.The news that the UK could approve a vaccine comes as Nadhim Zahawi, a junior minister for the Department of Business, was appointed as minister overseeing the rollout of Covid-19 vaccines.The UK has ordered enough doses of the two-shot Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine to immunize 20 million people, though that volume almost certainly won’t be available right away. The companies also have deals to supply hundreds of millions of shots to Europe, the US, Japan and elsewhere.The Pfizer-BioNTech shot has raced to the head of the line after delays to trials of a vaccine from AstraZeneca Plc and the University of Oxford, which has also shown some promising signs in preliminary results from broad studies.Another one, from Moderna Inc., has also demonstrated effectiveness in late-stage trials. The UK government has secured another 2 million doses of Moderna’s vaccine, talking its total to 7 million.Peter Openshaw, professor of experimental medicine at Imperial College London and a government adviser, said he would be “surprised” if a vaccine becomes available as soon as next week.“I know that the regulators are looking very hard and they’re doing everything they can to scrutinize all the data,” Openshaw told the Marr show. “I wouldn’t be too surprised if an announcement would be made within the next two weeks, possibly even as early as next week, but we’ll have to wait and see.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-poised-to-be-first-to-clear-pfizer-biontech-covid-vaccine/story-dT9bvzqliIp8U1TTUFl7ML.html
29-11-2020||World||Indonesian volcano erupts, forcing residents to flee||A volcano in Indonesia’s East Nusa Tenggara province erupted on Sunday, spewing ash and smoke as high as four kilometers into the sky and forcing more than 2,700 residents to seek refuge, the country’s disaster mitigation agency said.Indonesia has nearly 130 active volcanoes, more than any other country, and while many show high levels of activity it can be weeks or even months before an eruption.Raditya Jati, a spokesman for the agency, said in a statement that the eruption from the Mt. Ile Lewotolok volcano, about 2,600 kilometers east of Indonesia’s capital of Jakarta, had caused panic among those living nearby.About 2,780 people from 26 villages had sought refuge, although no casualties have so far been reported, Jati said.Muhammad Ilham, a 17-year-old who witnessed the eruption, told Reuters that resident nearby were “panicked and they’re still looking for refuge and in need of money right now”.Indonesia’s Volcanology and Geological Hazard Mitigation Center said on its website that the area near the volcano is likely to be inundated with “hot clouds, lava stream, lava avalanche, and poisonous gas”.Kasbani, the head of the center, told Reuters that the status of the volcano was raised to the second-highest level on Indonesia’s four-tier alert system due to “increasing threats”.There are only three other volcanoes with this level, the agency said. These include the Merapi volcano on the island of Java and Sinabung on Sumatra, which erupted this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indonesian-volcano-erupts-forcing-residents-to-flee/story-Psl5YnjFr3bYLa3o0LomXN.html
29-11-2020||World||Faith takes the forefront as Georgia Senate runoffs heat up||Bishop Reginald Jackson stepped to the microphone at a drive-in rally outside a church in southwest Atlanta as his voice carried over a loudspeaker and the radio to people gathered in, around and on top of cars that filled the parking lot.“Let’s keep Georgia blue,” Jackson said. “Let’s elect Jon Ossoff, Raphael Warnock to the United States Senate.” The presiding bishop of more than 400 African Methodist Episcopal churches in Georgia added a pastoral flourish as horns honked and supporters cheered: “If I have a witness, somebody say amen!” As Georgia becomes the nation’s political hotspot this winter before twin runoff elections January 5 that will determine control of the Senate, faith-based organizing is heating up.Conservative Christians are rallying behind Republican Sens. Kelly Loeffler and David Perdue, while Black churches and liberal-leaning Jewish groups are backing Democratic challengers Rev. Raphael Warnock and Jon Ossoff. The Democrats’ fates are seen as intertwined in a state that this year turned blue in the presidential election for the first time since 1992 by a razor-thin margin.“These runoffs are critically important,” Jackson said. “We want to make sure there is no decrease in turnout.” Across Georgia, the African Methodist Episcopal Church is implementing a program designed to ensure its members, and Black voters overall, cast ballots in the runoff — focusing on votes by mail and early in-person voting. Pastors at each church remind tens of thousands of congregants every week to apply for an absentee ballot and of early voting dates, Jackson said in an interview. Each local church also follows up with congregants to make sure they have a plan to vote.The New Georgia Project, a nonpartisan voter mobilization group founded by Democrat Stacey Abrams, who ran for governor in 2018, is also preparing to tap the influence of faith communities in stoking turnout.Rev. Billy Honor, director of faith organizing at the group, said the conservative Christian Faith & Freedom Coalition — founded by former Georgia GOP chairman Ralph Reed — has long positioned Georgia “as the home of evangelical fundamentalist types when it comes to the political space.” “But the truth is, for a very long time, there has been an active, effective movement of progressive-minded, justice-centered clergy” who have worked in the state on voting rights, health care and other issues, Honor added. He said Warnock was part of that work before his candidacy. Warnock is senior pastor at Atlanta’s Ebenezer Baptist Church, the congregation led by the late Rev. Martin Luther King Jr.Meanwhile, Loeffler and Perdue can expect to benefit from a conservative Christian base that has long boosted the state’s Republicans. Faith & Freedom made Georgia one of its top three spending targets in a USD 50 million get-out-the-vote program during the general election and plans increased organizing for the runoffs.The reach of “the evangelical vote in Georgia is very large and very strong,” Timothy Head, the group’s executive director, said in an interview.Head noted that while President Donald Trump kept a strong hold on white evangelical voters this year, Perdue out-performed Trump in Georgia during the general election. President-elect Joe Biden may have won over some evangelicals by contrasting his character with that of Trump, Head said, but he argued that the same sort of case would be harder for Democrats to make against Loeffler and Perdue.Another faith-focused conservative group, the legislative affiliate of the Family Research Council, is holding trainings and pastor briefings before the runoffs. The anti-abortion group Susan B. Anthony List, whose president advised Trump’s reelection campaign on Catholic outreach, has announced a USD 4.1 million plan to boost Loeffler and Perdue through a partner political action committee.Religious issues already have become a campaign flashpoint in the runoff. The GOP has resurfaced excerpts from past Warnock sermons to assail him as insufficiently supportive of the military as well as anti-Israel. The Democrat signed a letter last year comparing Israel’s policy toward Palestinians to “previous oppressive regimes” and criticised it in a 2018 sermon, while also calling for a two-state solution in the region.Warnock pushed back in a recently released television ad, saying the attacks are “trying to scare people by taking things I’ve said out of context from over 25 years of being a pastor.” One group criticizing Warnock as too left-leaning on Israel, the Republican Jewish Coalition, is also mobilizing on behalf of the GOP incumbents.Jewish Democrats in Georgia predicted that the GOP attack on Warnock’s Israel record would fall flat, citing his record of friendship with the Jewish community through his pulpit at Ebenezer.Sherry Frank, president of the Atlanta section of the National Council of Jewish Women, said she sees “no doubt in the Jewish community about (Warnock’s) stance on Israel and anti-Semitism.” Frank’s group is conducting nonpartisan voter turnout work for the runoffs.Georgia’s Jewish Democrats also see, in Ossoff and Warnock, candidates whose joint push for the Senate harkens back to a tradition of Black and Jewish leaders working together during the civil rights movement. Warnock has a bond with a prominent Atlanta rabbi whose predecessor at the synagogue was close with King.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/faith-takes-the-forefront-as-georgia-senate-runoffs-heat-up/story-7MiHdvMoEVk3TCC9c7fNzL.html
29-11-2020||World||‘D-Day’ for Pakistan’s lonely elephant as handlers prepare airlift to Cambodia||A team of animal experts began the task on Sunday of airlifting Pakistan’s lonely elephant Kaavan on the long journey to his new home at a sanctuary in northwestern Cambodia, marking the culmination of years of campaigning by American singer Cher.Cher, who has written songs calling for Kaavan to be rescued from his grim and lonely conditions at Islamabad Zoo, is due to meet the elephant upon its arrival in Cambodia after she spent the last few days with him in Islamabad.On Sunday morning, dozens of wildlife workers and experts led by animal rescue organisation Four Paws used a winch and rope to pull the sedated elephant into a custom-designed crate in which he will be transported to the Cambodian city of Siem Reap.“It is an emotional day for all of us,” said Four Paws vet Amir Khalil. “But we also call it ‘D-day’.” Weighing more than 10 tons, the crate was then lifted by crane out of the enclosure and onto a truck. Later a military convoy will escort Kaavan to Islamabad’s airport from where he will embark on a roughly 10-hour flight to Cambodia in the early hours of Monday morning on a former Russian cargo plane. Kaavan’s handlers are taking more than 200 kilograms of food including bananas and melons for him to munch on during the journey, according to Four Paws.Cher has been filming a documentary with the Smithsonian Channel covering the rescue, which is being facilitated by her animal welfare organisation Free the Wild. “I found out about Kaavan from the people on my Twitter,” said Cher, according to a statement from the Smithsonian Channel. “I thought how can I fix this? How can I save an elephant who’s been shackled to a shed for 17 years and who is a thousand miles away? This is Free The Wild’s first big rescue and I am so proud.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/d-day-for-pakistan-s-lonely-elephant-as-handlers-prepare-airlift-to-cambodia/story-xJvhP3lq5H5IaXMCU3QPBP.html
29-11-2020||World||PPP leader Ali Qasim Gilani, 30 others arrested ahead of Pakistan Democratic Movement’s rally||Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) leader Ali Qasim Gilani and 30 other opposition members were arrested on Sunday ahead of the Pakistan Democratic Movement’s (PDM) rally in Multan.According to a report by Geo News, police in Multan filed a case against PPP workers after they broke through security barriers and stormed into Multan’s Qila Qasim Bagh on Saturday ahead of the PDM rally scheduled to take place there on Monday.Their workers have taken control of the administration of the stadium and have also set up a welcoming camp outside, the Party media cell said. Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz workers led a rally in Multan and also entered the stadium after it was broken into, the media outlet reported.“The rally will be held in Qila Qasim Bagh (at every cost). Today all the barriers of the police and administration have been broken down. After storming the gates, we have taken control of the stadium,” PPP leader Musa Gilani said.Geo News further reported that the police have registered a case against 70 named and more than 300 unnamed party workers for breaking off locks and forcing their way into the stadium at the Multan’s Lohari Gate police station.The police also filed a case against caterers who had agreed to provide services to the organisers of the November 30 rally.PPP chairman Bilawal Bhutto-Zardari issued a warning to the federal government “to desist from carrying out a crackdown” against PPP workers in Multan “otherwise there will be protests in every nook and corner of the country,” as per a party statement.The PPP chairman further slammed the government saying that the PTI government is initiating a crackdown against party workers to “create hurdles” in the PPP’s Foundation Day and the PDM rally.“Misuse of the state machinery against democratic workers will add fuel to the fire and every responsibility of the situation thereafter would lie on the PTI regime,” read the statement.Bilawal said that the Foundation Day rally will be held “anyhow” and PPP and other PDM parties “won’t be cowed down by the highhandedness of the regime”.Eleven political parties have joined hands to form a new multi-party alliance under the banner of the Pakistan Democratic Movement against the government of Imran Khan.Baffled by protests against his government, Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan on Saturday said he would not give permission to the political parties to hold anti-government rallies in Multan and other cities due to spread of Covid-19.The Prime Minister had also criticised the opposition for boycotting a meeting of the parliamentary committee on the country’s worsening COVID-19 situation and threatened to take legal action against them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ppp-leader-ali-qasim-gilani-30-others-arrested-ahead-of-pakistan-democratic-movement-s-rally/story-ZbqBewNMMVFtCTmuQ9xaiJ.html
29-11-2020||World||Britain expects ‘very significant’ week for Brexit talks as clock ticks down||Britain and the European Union are heading into a “very significant” week, British foreign minister Dominic Raab said on Sunday, as talks over a trade deal enter their final days with serious differences yet to be resolved.EU negotiator Michel Barnier told reporters in London that “works continue, even on Sunday” on his way to a negotiating session, as both sides look for a deal to prevent disruption to almost $1 trillion of trade at the end of December.“This is a very significant week, the last real major week, subject to any further postponement... we’re down to really two basic issues,” Raab told the BBC. Despite missing several self-imposed deadlines, the negotiations have failed to bridge differences on competition policy and the distribution of fishing rights.But Britain’s transitional EU exit agreement - during which the bloc’s rules continue to apply - expires on Dec. 31, and Britain says it will not seek any extension. A deal would have to be ratified by both sides, leaving little time for new delay.“The bottom line is... in the ordinary course of things we need to get a deal done over the next week or maybe another couple of days beyond that,” Raab told Times Radio in a separate interview.Earlier, he had signalled some progress on the ‘level playing field’ provisions which look to ensure fair competition between Britain and the EU, and said fishing remained the most difficult issue to solve.Despite accounting for 0.1% of the British economy, fishing rights have become a totemic issue for both sides. Britain has so far rejected EU proposals and remains adamant that as an independent nation it must have full control of its waters.“The EU have just got to recognise the point of principle here,” Raab told Times Radio.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/britain-expects-very-significant-week-for-brexit-talks-as-clock-ticks-down/story-XGkJHfgQGmpkGXKrOdtozO.html
29-11-2020||World||US Supreme Court weighs Trump bid to bar illegal immigrants from census totals||The Supreme Court on Monday is set to take up President Donald Trump’s unprecedented and contentious effort to exclude illegal immigrants from the population totals used to allocate US House of Representatives districts to states.The challengers to Trump’s July directive include various states led by New York, cities, counties and immigrant rights groups. They have argued that the Republican president’s move could leave several million people uncounted and cause California, Texas and New Jersey to lose House seats, which are based on a state’s population count in the decennial census. The court, which has a 6-3 conservative majority including three justices appointed by Trump, is scheduled to hear an 80-minute oral argument by teleconference.Trump lost his bid for re-election on Nov. 3. This case focuses on one of several policy moves his administration is rushing to complete before Democratic President-elect Joe Biden takes office on Jan. 20.The census in mandated by the US Constitution. The challengers argued that Trump is prohibited by the Constitution’s text from excluding illegal immigrants from the population count. The Constitution requires that the apportionment of House seats be based upon the “whole number of persons in each state.” The challengers said Trump’s plan, undertaken as part of the government’s responsibility to administer the 2020 census, also violates a federal law called the Census Act that outlines how a census must be conducted. They said Trump’s plan would weaken the political power of states with larger numbers of illegal immigrants, including heavily Democratic California, by undercounting their true populations and depriving them of House seats. If California loses House districts, that likely would mean Democrats lose House seats, benefiting Trump’s fellow Republicans. Read more | Donald Trump says he will leave office if Joe Biden’s victory confirmedThere are an estimated 11 million immigrants living in the United States illegally. Until now, the government’s practice was to count all people regardless of their citizenship or immigration status. “That’s what everyone has always thought,” said Dale Ho, a lawyer for the American Civil Liberties Union, which represents immigrant groups in the case. Ho said he is optimistic the court’s conservatives, who often tout the importance of interpreting laws as written, would view this one as a “rather easy case.”Trump’s lawyers argued in court papers that the president acted within his authority and that the challengers lacked the necessary legal standing to bring the case. Trump’s administration “has virtually unfettered discretion as to what data will be used in enumerating individual persons in each state for purposes of the decennial census and apportionment,” Acting Solicitor General Jeff Wall wrote.The court is deciding the case on a expedited schedule, with a ruling due before the end of the year. That would make it difficult for the incoming Biden administration to revisit Trump’s plan if it is upheld.Trump’s hardline stance toward immigration has been a hallmark of his presidency.The Supreme Court last year ruled 5-4 against Trump’s effort to add a citizenship question to the census. Critics said the question was intended to frighten immigrants from taking part in the population count and artificially reduce population numbers in heavily Democratic areas, also to benefit Republicans. Conservative Chief Justice John Roberts joined the liberal justices in that ruling. But the addition of Trump’s third appointee Amy Coney Barrett to the court changes its dynamics, as seen in action by the justices on Wednesday in a case in which they backed Christian and Jewish houses of worship that challenged New York state’s latest restrictions in novel coronavirus hot spots.Roberts dissented along with the court’s three liberals but Barrett’s vote in favor of the religious groups proved decisive.A three-judge panel in New York ruled against the administration in September in the current case and the justices agreed to take up the appeal on Oct. 16. Federal courts in California and Maryland have reached the same conclusion in other cases though one court in Washington ruled for Trump. By statute, the president is due to send Congress a report in early January with the population of each of the states and their entitled number of House districts. Once states are allocated their districts, they themselves draw the boundaries for the districts, which will be used first in the 2022 congressional elections. The number of House seats for each state also determines how many votes that state gets in the Electoral College, the system used to determine the winner of presidential elections. In a close election, one or two electoral votes could swing the outcome.The census itself does not gather data on a person’s citizenship or immigration status. Trump’s administration would base its numbers on data gathered elsewhere. The US Census Bureau, a spokesman said, “will make public the methods used to provide state-level counts once we have them finalized.”Thomas Wolf, a lawyer at New York University’s Brennan Center for Justice, said it is not yet clear if the administration will even be able to come up with usable numbers.“This is not the way a transparent constitutional democracy is supposed to be run,” Wolf added.Ilya Somin, a professor at George Mason University’s Antonin Scalia Law School in Virginia who filed a brief opposing Trump, said although the challengers have a strong case, one wrinkle could be that some conservative justices embrace a broad view of presidential powers.“We can’t be too definitive about what the justices will do with it,” Somin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-supreme-court-weighs-trump-bid-to-bar-illegal-immigrants-from-census-totals/story-tVkA5cycRxKRJsTZ6P0EJO.html
29-11-2020||World||Hong Kong’s top leader Carrie Lam piles up cash at home after US sanctions||Hong Kong leader Carrie Lam says she has to pile up cash at home as she has been unable to open a bank account in the global financial centre since Washington sanctioned her shortly after Beijing imposed a national security law on the city.Beijing circumvented Hong Kong’s legislature and imposed a national security law on the former British colony on June 30, a move condemned by some foreign governments, business groups and rights groups.Hong Kong and authorities in Beijing said the law was necessary to restore stability after more than a year of anti-government protests.“Sitting in front of you is a chief executive of the Hong Kong SAR (Special Administrative Region) who has no banking services made available to her,” Lam told HKIBC, an English-language news channel in the city, on a preview clip shown late on Friday.“I’m using cash for all the things,” she said. “I have piles of cash at home, the government is paying me cash for my salary because I don’t have a bank account.”In August, the United States imposed sanctions on Lam and other top officials for what Washington says is their role in curtailing political freedoms in the territory.“I don’t want to... deter people from serving in a public position because it is very honourable in this set of circumstances to be so unjustifiably sanctioned by the US government,” Lam said.Lam is paid about HK$5.21 million ($672,232) a year, according to local media reports, making her among the highest paid public officials in the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-s-top-leader-carrie-lam-piles-up-cash-at-home-after-us-sanctions/story-Z36ySGFIVOwA7B7TWaZzEP.html
29-11-2020||World||UK PM Boris Johnson defends tier-based lockdown in letter to rebel colleagues||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson has urged his Conservative Party lawmakers to back the government’s tier-based Covid-19 lockdown in a Parliament vote in a letter stressing that there “a sunset” clause – or expiry date – of February 3 on the latest restrictions.In an attempt to curb a growing rebellion within his own ranks against the new measures which face a House of Commons vote next Tuesday, Johnson wrote on Saturday evening that the tiers will be reviewed every two weeks, and areas can move down the tiers from mid-December.“Regulations have a sunset of 3 February. After the fourth fortnightly review (27 January), Parliament will have another vote on the tiered approach, determining whether the measures stay in place until the end of March,” he wrote.In his attempt to placate angry MPs opposed to further lockdowns, he also committed to publish more data and outline what circumstances need to change for an area to move down a tier, as well analysis of the health, economic and social impacts of the measures taken to suppress coronavirus.Most of England’s population is set to fall under the two toughest tiers when the second national lockdown ends on December 2. Around 32 million people – covering 57.3 per cent of England and including London – will fall into Tier 2 or high alert level which means the rule of six applies with up to six members of different households allowed to meet outdoors.Read more | Covid-19 hit UK immigration, but Indians among top to get visasHospitality venues are allowed to open but operate under these strict rules, with dining indoors restricted to single households and support bubbles and alcohol sale permitted only with a substantial meal.Besides, some 23.3 million people – or 41.5 per cent of the population – are going to be placed in the highest alert level of Tier 3, which prohibits any mixing of households and hospitality venues allowed to open only for takeaways. Only three regions of the Isle of Wight, Cornwall, and the Isles of Scilly will be under the lightest Tier 1 controls where the rule of six applies overall and most venues are allowed to function near normally.The further tough measures after four weeks of a stay-at-home lockdown has triggered a backlash among Johnson’s own Tory MPs and the changes could now face a fight in Parliament after the Opposition Labour Party remains undecided and may abstain in the vote on Tuesday. The Cabinet has been rallying around to try and ensure the latest measures to curb the spread of coronavirus infections clears the Commons hurdle.“There’s a risk of that if we don’t get the balance right,” said Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab, when asked if the government fears a third wave of the coronavirus pandemic.Cabinet Office minister Michael Gove said MPs needed to “take responsibility for difficult decisions” because there is a risk of the state-funded National Health Service (NHS) being overwhelmed with COVID-19 cases over the winter months.However, one of the backbench Tory MPs, Tobias Ellwood, pointed out that all seven Nightingale hospitals, the make-shift units built during the first wave of the pandemic, lie “largely empty”, adding that military medical staff could help run them.Meanwhile, Tory MP Steve Baker who is leading the rebellion with the Covid Recovery Group (CRG) of backbenchers said they would be “glad to share in the burden of decision” as long the “information necessary to show the government’s restrictions will do more good than harm” is offered in full.“It is a modest request,” he said.On Saturday, a further 479 deaths within 28 days of a positive test were reported in the UK, bringing the total death toll from the virus to 58,030. There were also a further 15,871 positive cases registered in the past 24 hours.Meanwhile, the UK government appointed a new minister to specifically oversee the rollout of any Covid-19 vaccine that becomes available after clearing all regulatory checks. Nadhim Zahawi, a minister in the department for business and industry, will now serve as a joint minister for the Department of Health and Social Care as well.“A big responsibility and a big operational challenge but absolutely committed to making sure we can roll out vaccines quickly – saving lives and livelihoods and helping us build back better,” Zahawi said in a Twitter statement.The government says it has secured a further 2 million doses of a coronavirus vaccine from US firm Moderna, which has shown to be 95 per cent effective in trials. This brings the UK’s Moderna order to seven million – enough for around 3.5 million people. Separately, the UK has placed orders for 100 million doses of the Oxford vaccine, which is undergoing further trials, and 40 million doses of the jab from Pfizer and BioNTech, which has also been shown to be 95 per cent effective.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-pm-boris-johnson-defends-tier-based-lockdown-in-letter-to-rebel-colleagues/story-XG0vYe5frnpntWPFf4DdsN.html
29-11-2020||World||Pope, with new cardinals, warns church against mediocrity||Pope Francis, joined by the church’s newest cardinals in Mass on Sunday, warned against mediocrity as well as seeking out “godfathers” to promote one’s own career.Eleven of the 13 new cardinals sat near the central altar of St. Peter’s Basilica, where Francis on Saturday had bestowed upon them the red hats symbolizing they are now so-called princes of the church.Two of the new cardinals couldn’t make it to Rome because of pandemic travel complications. The freshly-minted cardinals who did come to the Vatican wore protective masks and purple vestments, as the Church began the solemn liturgical season of Advent in the run-up to Christmas.In his homily, Francis decried what he called “a dangerous kind of sleep: it is the slumber of mediocrity.” He added that Jesus “above all else detests lukewarm-ness.”Being chosen to head Vatican departments or eventually becoming pope themselves could be in any of these new cardinals’ future. Cardinals often advise popes and pick the next pontiff by conferring among themselves and then meeting in secret conclave to select one of their own to lead the Roman Catholic Church and its roughly 1.3 billion rank-and-file faithful.Francis has often warned against clericalism during his papacy, and he picked up on that theme in Sunday’s homily.“If we are awaited in Heaven, why should we be caught up with earthly concerns? Why should we be anxious about money, fame, success, all of which will fade away?” the pope said.Deviating from his prepared text, he added: “Why look for godfathers for promoting one’s career?”In one of the most shocking illustrations of clericalism’s dangers, earlier this month, an internal Vatican report concluded that bishops, cardinals and even popes across decades dismissed or downplayed reports of sexual misconduct by a U.S. churchman, Theodore McCarrick.McCarrick had risen steadily through the ranks of hierarchy, eventually holding the prestigious post of archbishop of Washington, D.C. McCarrick was stripped of his cardinal’s rank and defrocked in 2019 after an investigation substantiated allegations of sexual abuse against him.While the in-house fact-finding noted the roles of Francis and Benedict XVI, his predecessor in the papacy, in not stopping McCarrick’s abuse of his position, much of the fault was laid on John Paul II, the long-reigning pontiff who was quickly made saint after his death in 2005. John Paul appointed McCarrick to the Washington post and made him cardinal despite having commissioned an inquiry that confirmed the U.S. prelate shared his bed with seminarians.Among those raised to cardinal’s rank on Saturday by Francis was the current archbishop of Washington, Wilton Gregory, the first African-American cardinal.Francis in his homily recommended charity as the way for the Church to stay on mission.“Some people seem to think that being compassionate, helping and serving others is for losers,” Francis said, after decrying indifference.“When the Church worships God and serves our neighbor, it does not live in the night. However weak and weary, she journeys towards the Lord.”Francis also prayed that God “rouse us from the slumber of mediocrity; awaken us from the darkness of indifference.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pope-with-new-cardinals-warns-church-against-mediocrity/story-22jMAwIxCNnN2kFwg66MjI.html
29-11-2020||World||Iran newspaper: Strike Haifa if Israel killed scientist||An opinion piece published by a hard-line Iranian newspaper on Sunday suggested Iran should attack the Israeli port city of Haifa if Israel carried out the killing of the scientist who founded the Islamic Republic’s military nuclear program in the early 2000s.Though the hard-line Kayhan newspaper has long argued for aggressive retaliation for operations targeting Iran, Sunday’s opinion piece went further, suggesting any assault be carried out in a way that destroys facilities and “also causes heavy human casualties.”Israel, suspected of killing Iranian nuclear scientists over the past decade, has not commented on the brazen slaying of Mohsen Fakhrizadeh. A military-style ambush Friday on the outskirts of Tehran reportedly saw a truck bomb explode and gunmen open fire on the scientist, killing him and a bodyguard.US intelligence agencies and UN nuclear inspectors have said the organized military nuclear program that Fakhrizadeh oversaw was disbanded in 2003, but Israeli suspicion of Tehran’s atomic program and his involvement has never ceased.Iranian officials have blamed Israel for Friday’s attack, raising the specter of renewed tensions that could engulf the region, including US troops stationed in the Persian Gulf and beyond during President Donald Trump’s remaining weeks in office.Kayhan published the piece written by Iranian analyst Sadollah Zarei, who argued Iran’s previous responses to suspected Israeli airstrikes that killed Revolutionary Guard forces in Syria did not go far enough to deter Israel. He said an assault on Haifa also needed to be greater than Iran’s ballistic missile attack against American troops in Iraq following the US drone strike in Baghdad that killed a top Iranian general in January.Striking the Israeli city of Haifa and killing a large number of people “will definitely lead to deterrence, because the United States and the Israeli regime and its agents are by no means ready to take part in a war and a military confrontation,” Zarei wrote.While Kayhan is a small circulation newspaper in Iran, its editor-in-chief Hossein Shariatmadari was appointed by Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei and has been described as an adviser to him in the past.Haifa, on the Mediterranean Sea, has been threatened in the past by both Iran and one of its proxies, the Lebanese militant group Hezbollah.Such a strike likely would draw an immediate Israeli retaliation and spark a wider conflict across the Mideast. While Iran has never directly targeted an Israeli city militarily, it has conducted attacks targeting Israeli interests abroad in the past over the killing of its scientists, like in the case of the three Iranians recently freed in Thailand in exchange for a detained British-Australian academic.Israel also is widely believed to have its own nuclear weapons, a stockpile it neither confirms nor denies possessing.The Iranian parliament on Sunday held a closed-door hearing about Fakhrizadeh’s killing. Afterward, parliament speaker Mohammad Baqer Ghalibaf said Iran’s enemies must be made to regret killing him.“The criminal enemy does not regret it except with a strong reaction,” he said in a broadcast on Iranian state radio.A public session of lawmakers saw them chant: “Death to America! Death to Israel!” They also began the review of a bill that would stop inspections by the International Atomic Energy Agency. The nuclear watchdog has provided an unprecedented, real-time look at Iran’s civilian nuclear program following the country’s 2015 nuclear deal with world powers.The deal has unraveled after Trump’s unilateral 2018 withdrawal of the US from the accord. Iran’s civilian atomic program has since continued its experiments and now enriches a growing uranium stockpile up to 4.5% purity.That’s still far below weapons-grade levels of 90%, though experts warn Iran now has enough low-enriched uranium to reprocess into fuel for at least two atomic bombs if it chose to pursue them.State television broadcast images of Fakhrizadeh’s casket being flown to Mashhad, a holy Shiite city in Iran’s east home to the shrine of Imam Reza. Iranian media said Sunday that one of the scientist’s bodyguards also had died from wounds he suffered in Friday’s attack.Khamenei has called Fakhrizadeh “the country’s prominent and distinguished nuclear and defensive scientist” and has demanded the “definitive punishment” of those behind the killing, without elaborating.Fakhrizadeh headed Iran’s so-called AMAD program that Israel and the West have alleged was a military operation looking at the feasibility of building a nuclear weapon. The International Atomic Energy Agency says the “structured program” ended in 2003. US intelligence agencies concurred with that assessment in a 2007 report.Israel contends Iran is still intent on developing a nuclear weapon. It argues Iran’s ballistic missile program and other research could help build a bomb if it pursued one — especially as provisions of the 2015 nuclear deal expire. Iran long has maintained its nuclear program is peaceful and that it has no plans to build an atomic bomb.His killing likely complicates the plans of President-elect Joe Biden, who has said his administration will consider reentering Tehran’s nuclear deal with world powers. It also raises the risk of an open conflict in Trump’s final weeks in office as any retaliation could provoke an American military response, said Amos Yadlin, a one-time head of Israeli military intelligence who now serves as the director of Tel Aviv University’s Institute for National Security Studies.“I highly recommend to the officials to keep their mouths closed and not leak anything. They’ve already spoke too much,” he said, referring to cryptic remarks by Israel’s prime minister to his supporters that he could not discuss everything he did last week.“Any more evidence that will help the Iranians to decide on retaliation against Israel is a mistake,” Yadlin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-newspaper-strike-haifa-if-israel-killed-scientist/story-6WIjOYUHhKDmwlULohf5eI.html
29-11-2020||World||UK confirms H5N8 bird flu on English turkey farm||Bird flu has been found at a turkey farm in northern England, the government said on Sunday.“Avian flu has been confirmed at a commercial turkey fattening farm near Northallerton, North Yorkshire,” Chief Veterinary Officer, Christine Middlemiss said in a statement. The disease was the H5N8 strain.It said all 10,500 birds at the farm would be humanely culled to limit the spread of the disease, and that the risk to public health was very low. The outbreak does not pose a food safety risk, the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-confirms-h5n8-bird-flu-on-english-turkey-farm/story-DYsmFeuWNNj8jk5h9P5WwK.html
29-11-2020||World||UK rejects latest EU fisheries offer as talks resume||Years of wrangling over Britain’s future trade relationship with the EU are set to enter what could be their final week, with Boris Johnson’s government saying there remains a significant gap on the issue of how much fish European trawlers should be allowed to catch in British waters.Michel Barnier, the EU’s lead negotiator, has proposed that the EU’s share of the catch be cut by 15% to 18%, an offer that Downing Street dismissed in a statement as “risible.”“The EU side know full well that we would never accept this,” according to a government official. “No agreement is arguably underpriced.”Access to Britain’s fishing waters has been one of three key hurdles to an agreement -- the others being a level competitive playing field, and how any agreement will be enforced. But the absence in Downing Street’s statement of any mention of these two other issues could spur expectations that a deal is within reach.A report in The Times newspaper suggested that the European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen is putting pressure on Barnier by sending one of her most trusted officials to the talks. Citing two unidentified UK government officials, the report said the parties should agree to the basis of a trade relationship by next weekend.Failure to reach a deal would result in extra costs for millions of consumers and businesses from December 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-rejects-latest-eu-fisheries-offer-as-talks-resume/story-jogagperD5pjy2LxMexXEL.html
29-11-2020||World||OIC cold-shoulders Pakistan at big meet, Imran Khan govt puts up a brave face||Pakistan’s Imran Khan’s government on Saturday evening rushed to release a statement on references to Jammu and Kashmir in a resolution, which it said, had been passed by the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation at the meeting of foreign ministers in Niger’s capital Niamey. Pakistan’s foreign office was the first to tweet, celebrating the customary references to Kashmir as a huge win.“The inclusion of Jammu and Kashmir dispute in the Niamey Declaration – being an important part of the CFM’s (Council of Foreign Ministers) outcome documents - is yet another manifestation of the @OIC_OCI’s consistent support to the Kashmir Cause,” Pakistan’s foreign office tweeted.DRDO ready with anti-drone system for armed forces, PM Modi to have drone killer as part of his security detailForeign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi who has had to face some embarrassing moments at home over OIC’s refusal to discuss Kashmir as a separate item followed up on Sunday morning.There has been no communique from the OIC Secretariat on the resolution passed by the 57-member body yet.Indian officials said New Delhi wouldn’t be surprised if the final OIC resolution does contain customary references to Kashmir claimed by Islamabad but underlined that it was significant that Jammu and Kashmir wasn’t discussed as a separate agenda item, something that the Imran Khan government had made a prestige issue for itself.PM Oli pulls off surprise, draws a red line for ambassador Hou YanqiPakistan has been demanding a special OIC meeting of foreign ministers on Kashmir ever since India abrogated Article 370 that extended special status to Jammu and Kashmir but has been unsuccessful. It was in this desperation to get the OIC to hold the special meeting that prompted foreign minister Qureshi to cross the line in August this year when he threatened to hold a meeting of Muslim countries outside the OIC platform that had angered Saudi Arabia.The Imran Khan government tried to persuade the OIC to let it hold a side event on Kashmir when preparations for the 27-28 November OIC foreign ministers were still underway. But Niger declined, insisting that they had taken a considered decision not to hold any side events. Niger hadn’t taken too well to Pakistan’s effort to use the OIC to settle its domestic agenda, people familiar with New Delhi’s diplomatic counter-offensive told Hindustan Times.Pak has quietly moved 26/11 attacks accused Hafiz Saeed out of jail. He is home: IntelPakistan didn’t give up and deployed Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi to try convincing the Saudi leadership to intervene on its behalf.Saudi Arabia, however, miffed with Pakistan’s efforts to create a parallel forum was in no mood to relent. The Saudi leadership went a step further and advised Islamabad not to try to hijack the forum. Qureshi was told that Islamabad should not expect anything more than the customary references to Kashmir.Terrorism was the overarching theme of the two-day conference; OIC secretary-general Dr Yousef Al-Othaimeen called terrorism the most serious threat to the region and the world.Diplomats who were tracking the OIC conference said many OIC countries did indicate their displeasure at Pakistan’s refusal to curb terror and its encouragement to fundamentalists in the country, treatment of minorities and harsh blasphemy laws which the Arab nations have since relinquished. Pakistan did try to target India during the discussion on the fight against violence, extremism, terrorism and Islamophobia, but some countries did indirectly ask Islamabad to speak about allegations that it provided continuous support to the elements that designated as terrorists by the UN sanctions committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/oic-cold-shoulders-pakistan-at-big-meet-imran-khan-govt-puts-up-a-brave-face/story-tRCoD1lF2cd2k3BYq1Ow2I.html
29-11-2020||World||Joe Biden’s team eyes environmental justice champion Ali for White House Council||President-elect Joe Biden’s transition team is considering recommending environmental justice champion Mustafa Santiago Ali to lead the White House Council on Environmental Quality, as the incoming administration seeks to prioritize the damage pollution takes on poor and minority communities.The deliberations, part of an effort to refocus the obscure White House agency into a hub for promoting environmental justice, was described by two people familiar with the matter who asked not to be named discussing personnel recommendations.Neither Ali nor representatives of the Biden-Harris transition immediately responded to requests for comment Saturday.The CEQ serves as a kind of mission control coordinating environmental policy decisions and reviews across the federal government. It also oversees implementation of the National Environmental Policy Act.Under President Donald Trump, the agency has sought to expedite environmental permitting. But Biden has outlined plans for the agency to address environmental injustice amid a national reckoning on matters of race.In addition to Ali, another environmental justice advocate, Cecilia Martinez, is being considered to lead the agency, Bloomberg Law reported. Martinez now heads Biden’s agency review team focused on CEQ.Also Read | Joe Biden announces 3 more members in Covid-19 task forceEPA VeteranAli’s career has been intertwined with environmental justice. He spent 24 years at the Environmental Protection Agency, and helped found an office there focused on the topic. He resigned as an assistant associate administrator in 2017 as the Trump administration moved to zero out the office’s funding. Ali also served as a senior vice president for the Hip Hop Caucus, a not-for-profit group that promotes political activism among young voters.Biden has pledged to re-establish a White House Environmental Justice Advisory Council and White House Environmental Justice Interagency Council. He’s emphasized that the problems of climate change and pollution are tied to the struggle for racial equality, asserting in June that low-income communities of color can be victimized by being “in spots where the water is not clean, the air you can’t breathe.”Ali has argued that environmental justice considerations should be embedded in federal policy making, and emphasized the need to rebuild and revitalize vulnerable communities that bear the brunt of pollution. Progressive activists have lobbied Biden to nominate Ali as EPA administrator.Unequal Impact“We have some opportunities for some real wins,” Ali said in a conference call on Nov. 24 marking the 50th anniversary of the EPA. “We also have opportunities to really mitigate and minimize the impacts that happen inside the communities that are often unseen and unheard.”Ali said that the Trump administration’s work to ease environmental regulations has had unequal results. “For all these rules that have been rolled back or weakened, there have been these additional impacts that have happened to our most vulnerable communities,” he said.Any new regulations that move forward should be buttressed by a “true and full environmental justice analysis” to ensure “we’re providing the protection that’s needed,” he said.Ali, who is Black, is now a vice president at the National Wildlife Federation. He’s also the founder of Revitalization Strategies, a business focused on helping vulnerable communities thrive, according to his biography on the wildlife group’s website.Also Read | India has practically achieved pre-2020 climate action targets, says Prakash JavadekarPoor people and people of color often face higher exposure to pollutants, according to the American Lung Association. One reason for the discrepancy is that pollution sources -- from interstate highways to refineries -- tend to be located near disadvantaged communities.“Since the beginning, environmentalism has struggled with racism and exclusion,” said Julian Brave NoiseCat, a vice president at the progressive think tank Data for Progress.“For decades, communities of color and indigenous peoples have fought to reorient environmental concerns around inclusion and justice,” said NoiseCat. “Having an environmental justice leader at the helm of CEQ would mark an incredible victory for our movement.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-s-team-eyes-environmental-justice-champion-ali-for-white-house-council/story-pzeFn8OofLsUewJ9PCcwPO.html
29-11-2020||World||Hong Kong considers suspending all in-person classes: local media reports||The Hong Kong government is discussing suspending face-to-face classes at primary and secondary schools in the city amid a rise in locally transmitted cases of Covid-19, the South China Morning Post and other local media reported on Sunday.No final decision has been made, the SCMP said, citing an unidentified source, but added that it could come as soon as Sunday. Now TV and Oriental Daily said Hong Kong would suspend all in-person classes by the end of this week, also citing unidentified sources.Separately, SCMP and RTHK reported that the city would report an additional 114 cases of coronavirus infections, citing sources.Hong Kong’s Secretary for Labour and Welfare, Dr Law Chi-kwong, said Hong Kong would require staff of residential care homes to undergo mandatory testing for Covid-19. He said those who don’t comply would face fines and could be barred from working.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-considers-suspending-all-in-person-classes-local-media-reports/story-tPps14QimWwDpbIoxxIq5J.html
29-11-2020||World||UK concerned over Iran situation, awaiting full facts on scientist killing||British Foreign Minister Dominic Raab said on Sunday he was concerned about the situation in Iran and wider region after the killing of a top Iranian nuclear scientist.“We are concerned about the situation in Iran and the wider region we do want to see de-escalation of tensions,” Raab told Sky News, after Iranian scientist Mohsen Fakhrizadeh was killed in an ambush near Tehran on Friday.“We’re still waiting to see the full facts to address the full facts of what’s happened in Iran but I would say that we stick to the rule of international humanitarian law which is very clear against targeting civilians.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-concerned-over-iran-situation-awaiting-full-facts-on-scientist-killing/story-FF6g02tfEqOHQBJ8343FLM.html
29-11-2020||World||South Korea bans year-end parties, some music lessons, as Covid-19 spikes again||South Korean authorities announced a ban on year-end parties and some music lessons on Sunday and said public saunas and some cafes must also close after coronavirus infections surged at their fastest pace since the early days of the pandemic.South Korea has been one of the world’s coronavirus mitigation success stories but spikes in infections have reappeared relentlessly, triggering alarm in Asia’s four-largest economy.Authorities reported 450 new infections on Sunday after more than 500 cases were recorded for three days in a row, the Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency said.What authorities are calling a third wave of infections is spreading at the fastest rate in nearly nine months, driven by outbreaks at military facilities, a sauna, a high school and churches.Prime Minister Chung Sye-kyun said restrictions would be tightened on gatherings and activities seen as prone to virus transmission, especially in the capital Seoul and surrounding urban areas.“Year-end events and parties hosted by hotels, party rooms, guest houses and other accommodation facilities will be banned outright,” Chung told a briefing after meeting health officials.Saunas and steam-bath rooms with a high risk of mass infection would also be banned as would the teaching of wind musical instruments and singing, he said.For rest of the country, social distancing rules would also be tightened from Tuesday, he said.Separately, Chung said the government was talking to parliament about the possibility of new relief funds for households and businesses, which would be the third this year, as the economy struggles.“Our assessment is that we need the third crisis support fund ... The government will come up with a conclusion on this after discussing with both the ruling and opposition parties.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-korea-bans-year-end-parties-some-music-lessons-as-virus-spikes-again/story-e0uhD1Y6C0BGLPYDpG8IIJ.html
29-11-2020||World||At least 34 killed in separate suicide bombings: Afghan officials||Afghan officials said Sunday at least 34 people were killed in two separate suicide bombings that targeted a military base and a provincial chief.In eastern Ghazni province, 31 soldiers were killed and 24 others wounded when the attacker drove a military humvee full of explosives onto an army commando base before detonating the car bomb, according to an official in Afghanistan’s national security council, who spoke anonymously because he was not permitted to speak directly to the media.The attack was also confirmed by Interior Ministry spokesman Tariq Arian, though he did not provide details on casualties.In southern Afghanistan, a suicide car bomber targeted the convoy of a provincial council chief in Zubal, killing at least three people and wounding 12 others, including children.The provincial council chief, Attajan Haqbayat, survived the Sunday attack with minor injuries, though one of his bodyguards was among those killed, said provincial police spokesman Hikmatullah Kochai.There were no immediate claims of responsibility for the attacks.The bombings come as Afghan government representatives and the Taliban hold face-to-face talks in Qatar for the first time to end the country’s decades-long war.There has been a sharp rise in violence this year and a surge of attacks by the Taliban against Afghanistan’s beleaguered security forces since the start of peace talks in September. There have also been deadly attacks this month claimed by Islamic State militants in Afghanistan, including a horrific attack on Kabul University that killed 22 people, most of them students.The U.S., meanwhile, plans to withdraw another estimated 2,500 troops before the middle of January, leaving about 2,000 soldiers in Afghanistan as part of America’s longest war. Afghan officials, however, have expressed concerns that a rapid reduction in American troops could strengthen the negotiating hand of the Taliban.The United States has been pressing in recent weeks for a reduction in violence, while the Afghan government has been demanding a cease-fire. The Taliban have refused, saying a cease-fire will be part of negotiations, though the group have held to their promise not to attack U.S. and NATO troops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/at-least-34-killed-in-separate-suicide-bombings-afghan-officials/story-0lH413qXOooFHOq0BBqvfK.html
29-11-2020||World||US reports several explosions heard in Eritrea’s capital amidst Tigray conflict||The US Embassy in Eritrea says six explosions were heard Saturday night in the capital, Asmara. It follows an embassy report of another “loud noise, possibly an explosion” in the city on Friday, nearly two weeks after the government of neighbouring Ethiopia’s defiant Tigray region confirmed firing missiles at the city during its war with Ethiopian federal forces.The latest explosions came just hours after Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed declared victory in his government’s fighting against forces of the Tigray People’s Liberation Front, which runs the northern Tigray region bordering Eritrea. The army said it was in “full control” of the regional capital, Mekele, but the government said TPLF leaders remain on the run.The TPLF leader earlier this month asserted that Eritrean forces were involved in the fighting in Tigray at the invitation of Ethiopia’s government, something Addis Ababa has repeatedly denied. Fears have grown that 96,000 Eritrean refugees in camps just over the border in Ethiopia are at risk.Also Read | UN warns of ‘very critical’ shortages in Ethiopia’s TigrayThe US has accused the TPLF of seeking to “internationalise” the deadly conflict in which humanitarians say several hundred people have been killed, including civilians.The US Embassy statement overnight advises American citizens to exercise caution and be aware “of the ongoing conflict in the Tigray region.” It also advises citizens to “monitor local news” in a country regarded by watchdogs as being highly repressive and having no independent media.The fighting has threatened to destabilise Ethiopia, which has been described as the linchpin of the strategic Horn of Africa, and its neighbours. Food, fuel, cash and medical supplies have run desperately low. Nearly 1 million people have been displaced, including more than 40,000 who fled into Sudan. Camps home to 96,000 Eritrean refugees in northern Tigray have been in the line of fire.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-reports-several-explosions-heard-in-eritrea-s-capital/story-hJfJ00mD0LwlJmJVfCl9lL.html
29-11-2020||World||Singaporean gives birth to baby with Covid-19 antibodies: Report||A Singaporean woman, who was infected with the novel coronavirus in March when she was pregnant, has given birth to a baby with antibodies against the virus, offering a new clue as to whether the infection can be transferred from mother to child.The baby was born this month without Covid-19 but with the virus antibodies, the Straits Times newspaper reported on Sunday, citing the mother. “My doctor suspects I have transferred my Covid-19 antibodies to him during my pregnancy,” Celine Ng-Chan told the paper. Ng-Chan had been mildly ill from the disease and was discharged from hospital after two-and-a-half weeks, the Straits Times said.Ng-Chan and the National University Hospital (NUH), where she gave birth, did not immediately respond to a request for comment. The World Health Organisation says it is not yet known whether a pregnant woman with Covid-19 can pass the virus to her foetus or baby during pregnancy or delivery. To date, the active virus has not been found in samples of fluid around the baby in the womb or in breast milk. Doctors in China have reported the detection and decline over time of Covid-19 antibodies in babies born to women with the coronavirus disease, according to an article published in October in the journal Emerging Infectious Diseases.Transmission of the new coronavirus from mothers to newborns is rare, doctors from New York-Presbyterian/Columbia University Irving Medical Center reported in October in JAMA Pediatrics. (Reporting by Aradhana Aravindan in Singapore, additional reporting by Chen Lin; Editing by Robert Birsel)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/singaporean-gives-birth-to-baby-with-covid-19-antibodies-report/story-mOZHcmZYf84d26N8z94KVO.html
29-11-2020||World||Joe Biden announces 3 more members in Covid-19 task force||US President-elect Joe Biden on Saturday said that he is adding three new members in the Coronavirus task force as cases of the Wuhan-originated virus continue to surge in the US.According to The Hill, The transition said in a statement that Jane Hopkins, Jill Jim and David Michaels are joining the team, which is co-chaired by David Kessler, former Indian American Surgeon General Vivek Murthy and Marcella Nunez-Smith. The task force is charged with helping Biden, Vice President-elect Kamala Harris.“As Covid-19 surges across the country, I need a team advising me and a transition that offers diverse perspectives and viewpoints. Ms. Hopkins, Dr. Jim, and Dr. Michaels will strengthen the board’s work and help ensure that our Covid-19 planning will address inequities in health outcomes and the workforce,” said President-elect Biden in a statement.According to a statement released by the Biden-Harris Transition website, Hopkins, a Sierra Leonean immigrant, has worked for more than 20 years as a bedside nurse and has a long history in union work, a choice that appears to reflect Biden’s emphasis on appealing to labor groups. She’s also received the Black Lives Matter Award from the SEIU Washington State AFRAM Caucus.Whereas Jim is the executive director at the Navajo Nation Department of Health. “ For 18 years, she has served urban and tribal communities in non-profit, state, federal agencies and most recently tribal government, serving as a cabinet member for the Navajo Nation Nez-Lizer Administration,” the website read.The website stated that Michaels is an epidemiologist and Professor of Environmental and Occupational Health at the Milken Institute School of Public Health, George Washington University.“He served as Assistant Secretary of Labor for Occupational Safety and Health from 2009 to January 2017, the longest-serving administrator in OSHA’s history. During the Clinton Administration, Dr. Michaels served as Assistant Secretary of Energy for Environment, Safety, and Health, charged with protecting the workers, community, and environment around the nation’s nuclear weapons facilities,” the website stated.These announcements of the three new members in the coronavirus task force comes after the US surpassed 13 million Covid-19 cases on Friday, according to Johns Hopkins University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-announces-3-more-members-in-covid-19-task-force/story-aANlJkZVfHxVDX5zbFQg6N.html
29-11-2020||World||Iran’s supreme leader vows revenge over slain scientist||Iran’s supreme leader on Saturday demanded the “definitive punishment” of those behind the killing of a scientist who led Tehran’s disbanded military nuclear program, as the Islamic Republic blamed Israel for a slaying that has raised fears of reignited tensions across the Middle East.After years of being in the shadows, the image of Mohsen Fakhrizadeh suddenly was to be seen everywhere in Iranian media, as his widow spoke on state television and officials publicly demanded revenge on Israel for the scientist’s slaying.Israel, long suspected of killing Iranian scientists a decade ago amid earlier tensions over Tehran’s nuclear program, has yet to comment on Fakhrizadeh’s killing Friday. However, the attack bore the hallmarks of a carefully planned, military-style ambush, the likes of which Israel has been accused of conducting before.The attack has renewed fears of Iran striking back against the US, Israel’s closest ally in the region, as it did earlier this year when a US drone strike killed a top Iranian general. The US military acknowledged moving an aircraft carrier back into the region, while an Iranian lawmaker suggested throwing out UN nuclear inspectors in response to the killing.Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei called Fakhrizadeh “the country’s prominent and distinguished nuclear and defensive scientist.” Khamenei, who has the final say on all matters of state, said Iran’s first priority after the killing was the “definitive punishment of the perpetrators and those who ordered it.” He did not elaborate.Speaking earlier Saturday, President Hassan Rouhani blamed Israel for the killing.“We will respond to the assassination of Martyr Fakhrizadeh in a proper time,” Rouhani said. “The Iranian nation is smarter than falling into the trap of the Zionists. They are thinking to create chaos.”The United Nations called for restraint.“Of course we condemn any assassination or extra-judicial killing,” said Stephane Dujarric, spokesperson for Secretary-General Antonio Guterres. “We urge restraint and the need to avoid any actions that could lead to an escalation of tensions in the region.”Both Rouhani and Khamenei said Fakhrizadeh’s death would not stop the nuclear program. Iran’s civilian atomic program has continued its experiments and now enriches a growing uranium stockpile up to 4.5% purity in response to the collapse of Iran’s nuclear deal after the US’ 2018 withdrawal from the accord.That’s still far below weapons-grade levels of 90%, though experts warn Iran now has enough low-enriched uranium for at least two atomic bombs if it chose to pursue them.Analysts have compared Fakhrizadeh to being on par with Robert Oppenheimer, the scientist who led America’s Manhattan Project in World War II that created the atom bomb.Fakhrizadeh headed Iran’s so-called AMAD program that Israel and the West have alleged was a military operation looking at the feasibility of building a nuclear weapon. The International Atomic Energy Agency says that “structured program” ended in 2003. Iran long has maintained its nuclear program is peaceful.Fakhrizadeh’s widow appeared unnamed on state television in a black chador, saying his death would spark a thousand others to take up his work.“He wanted to get martyred and his wish came true,” she said.Hard-line Iranian media has begun circulating memorial images showing Fakhrizadeh standing alongside a machine-gun-cradling likeness of Revolutionary Guard Gen. Qassem Soleimani, whom the U.S. killed in the January drone strike.Soleimani’s death led to Iran retaliating with a ballistic missile barrage that injured dozens of American troops in Iraq. Tehran also has forces at its disposal all around Israel, including troops and proxies in neighboring Syria, Hezbollah in Lebanon and Islamic Jihad — and to a lesser extent Hamas — in the Gaza Strip. The Iranian Guard’s naval forces routinely shadow and have tense encounters with US Navy forces in the Persian Gulf as well.Hours after the attack, the Pentagon announced it had brought the USS Nimitz aircraft carrier back into the Middle East, an unusual move as the carrier already spent months in the region. It cited the drawdown of US forces in Afghanistan and Iraq as the reason for the decision, saying “it was prudent to have additional defensive capabilities in the region to meet any contingency.”Iran has conducted attacks targeting Israeli interests abroad over the killing of its scientists, like in the case of the three Iranians recently freed in Thailand in exchange for a detained British-Australian academic.Iran also could throw out inspectors from the International Atomic Energy Agency, who have provided an unprecedented, real-time look at Iran’s nuclear program since the deal. Nasrollah Pezhmanfar, a hard-line lawmaker, said a statement calling to expel the “IAEA’s spy inspections” could be read Sunday, the parliament’s official website quoted him as saying.Friday’s attack happened in Absard, a village just east of the capital that is a retreat for the country’s elite. Iranian state television said an old truck with explosives hidden under a load of wood blew up near a sedan carrying Fakhrizadeh.As Fakhrizadeh’s sedan stopped, at least five gunmen emerged and raked the car with rapid fire, the semiofficial Tasnim news agency said. The precision of the attack led to the suspicion of Israel’s Mossad intelligence service being involved. The CIA separately declined to comment on the attack Saturday.State media has only said the attack killed Fakhrizadeh, though a statement Saturday from the European Union described the incident as killing “an Iranian government official and several civilians.” EU officials did not respond to requests for comment.In Tehran, a small group of hardline protesters burned images of Trump and President-elect Joe Biden, who has said his administration will consider reentering Tehran’s nuclear deal with world powers. While burning an American and Israeli flag, the hard-liners criticized Iran’s foreign minister who helped negotiate the nuclear deal, showing the challenge ahead of Tehran if officials chose to come back the accord.On Saturday night, the family of Fakhrizadeh gathered at a mosque in central Tehran for his funeral service, a website associated with Iranian state TV reported. The scientist’s body lay in a flag-draped, open coffin, his eyes closed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-s-supreme-leader-vows-revenge-over-slain-scientist/story-p952kZgWiMsthT4E9F7tkO.html
29-11-2020||World||Car bomb kills at least 26 Afghan security personnel: Officials||A suicide car bomber struck an army base in Afghanistan on Sunday killing at least 26 security personnel, officials said, in one of the bloodiest attacks in recent months.The attack occurred on the outskirts of Ghazni city, capital of the eastern province of Ghazni, which has seen regular fighting between the Taliban and government forces.It came as the government and Taliban are engaged in peace talks to end the war in the impoverished country that has killed tens of thousands of people in nearly two decades. “We have received 26 bodies and 17 wounded so far. All of them are security personnel,” Baz Mohammad Hemat, director of Ghazni hospital, told AFP.Nasir Ahmad Faqiri, a member of Ghazni provincial council, confirmed the death toll.Interior ministry spokesman Tariq Arian a suicide bomber had detonated a vehicle full of explosives.No group has so far claimed the attack.The Ghazni attack comes just days after two bombs killed 14 people in the historic city of Bamiyan, ending years of calm in the isolated town famous for its ancient Buddhist heritage.Sunday’s bombing marked the latest big attack in Afghanistan, where violence has surged since the start of peace talks on September 12 in the Qatari capital of Doha.Brutal attacks have killed more than 50 people in Kabul in recent weeks, including two assaults on educational centres and a rocket attack. The Kabul attacks were claimed by the Islamic State group, but Afghan officials blamed the Taliban -- who denied any involvement.The Taliban have launch daily attacks targeting Afghan forces despite engaging in the peace talks.The talks had been bogged down by disputes on the agenda, the basic framework of discussions and religious interpretations, but agreement has now been reached on all issues, according to sources close to the talks.US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo called for “expedited discussions” during a visit to Doha last week during which he met with both Taliban and Afghan government negotiators.The Pentagon said earlier this month that it would soon pull out some 2,000 troops from Afghanistan, speeding up the timeline of a full withdrawal by May 2021 as agreed with the Taliban in a separate deal signed in February.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/car-bomb-kills-at-least-26-afghan-security-personnel-officials/story-57mxDsQk2WsC3rgA8PeadL.html
29-11-2020||World||Worse than Covid? Risks to UK economy as Brexit deadline nears||With the UK economy suffering more from the coronavirus than most advanced nations, the stakes couldn’t be higher as Brexit trade negotiations enter their endgame.Gross domestic product will likely be smaller than what it would have been had the UK stayed in the European Union regardless of the outcome. But reaching an accord would help avoid major trade disruptions come Jan. 1.Leaving without a deal, meanwhile, means that Brexit could end up inflicting more lasting damage than the pandemic, according to economists. Both sides say the onus is on the other to make a decisive move before the transition ends in just over a month.The pandemic has put Britain on course for its deepest economic slump since the Great Frost of 1709. By the first quarter of 2025, GDP will be 3.1% lower than anticipated in March, according to estimates by the Office for Budget Responsibility released on Wednesday. The fiscal watchdog deems the loss of output to be permanent.In a separate analysis, the OBR said transitioning into a free-trade agreement with the EU would shave 4% off GDP in the long run. A no-deal scenario -- meaning a shift to World Trade Organization rules -- would mean losing another 1.5%. Dan Hanson of Bloomberg Economics puts the combined cost higher still, at 7% of GDP.Jobs are also on the line. Unemployment is set to peak at 7.5%, or 2.6 million people, next year under the OBR’s central scenario that a trade deal be reached. A no-deal exit pushes the rate up to 8.3%.Financial services and export-reliant manufacturing sectors such as the car industry, food and textile producers stand to be among the hardest hit if trade talks fail.There are concerns that the time and money spent dealing with the pandemic has left many firms ill equipped to cope with the potential costs and disruptions ahead. A Bank of England survey of chief financial officers last month found less than 4% of them were fully prepared for the end of the transition period.Before the pandemic, businesses were already holding back on spending as they awaited greater clarity over Britain’s post-divorce relationship with Europe. Now Covid-19 has added to the difficulties, decimating investment this year and risking their ability to do so in future.No matter what the outcome of the talks, a period of adjustment is likely to make it hard for companies to know how best to invest for the future, but a move to WTO terms risks keeping spending depressed for longer, hitting already weakened productivity.The bigger the economic shortfall, the bigger the persistent budget deficit that Chancellor of the Exchequer Rishi Sunak needs to fill.Even if a trade deal is struck, balancing day-to-day spending and revenue by the middle of the decade will require 27 billion pounds ($36 billion) of tax increases or spending cuts, according to the OBR. That figure could rise to 34 billion pounds if firms are hit by new tariffs and curbs on trade with the EU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/worse-than-covid-risks-to-uk-economy-as-brexit-deadline-nears/story-Z3O0IOueC1HzjdWN1kjRSP.html
29-11-2020||World||North Korea toughens rules of entry to sea to fight Covid-19||North Korea is further toughening restrictions on entering seawaters as part of elevated steps to fight the coronavirus pandemic, state media said Sunday, two days after South Korea said the North had banned sea fishing.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The Korean Central News Agency reported the country is mobilizing more anti-virus units and establishing strong steps to “completely remove uncivilized and unhygienic elements that could help make room for the spread of an epidemic” at winter. Some experts say the coronavirus can spread more broadly during cold weather when people typically spend more time indoors.KCNA said officials were building firm anti-epidemic measures along border areas to prevent the coronavirus from entering the country. In front-line coastal areas, authorities were working out more stringent rules for venturing out at sea and collecting filthy materials in the waters, according to KCNA.North Korea has maintained no single virus case has been found on its territory, a claim widely questioned by outside experts. Despite its claim, North Korea has swiftly sealed its borders, flew out diplomats and isolated residents with symptoms. A major outbreak in North Korea could have devastating consequences because of its broken health care system and a chronic lack of medicines.North Korea has previously mentioned a restriction on entering the sea. Sunday’s report came after South Korea’s spy service told lawmakers Friday that the North’s anti-virus steps included a ban on fishing and salt production at sea, as well as and the lockdown of the capital, Pyongyang, northern Jagang province and other areas.Also Read | Suspected North Korean hackers targeted Covid vaccine maker AstraZenecaLawmakers who attended the closed-door briefing also cited the National Intelligence Service as saying that North Korea executed an official for breaching regulations restricting the import of goods in August and a money changer for a falling exchange rate in October.Ha Tae-keung, one of the lawmakers, quoted the agency as saying North Korean leader Kim Jong Un is displaying “excessive anger” and taking “irrational measures” over the pandemic and its economic impact.In September, South Korea accused North Korea of fatally shooting a South Korean fishery official found in the North’s waters before burning his body apparently in line with an anti-virus policy that involves shooting anyone illegally crossing the border. North Korea later acknowledged and apologized for the killing, but claimed it only burnt his floating device, not his body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korea-toughens-rules-of-entry-to-sea-to-fight-covid-19/story-BJ7zylzjgYBZJwA5luNgYO.html
29-11-2020||World||China trade curbs hurt global confidence, says Australia Trade Minister||Australia’s trade minister said China’s steps to curb imports of his country’s goods are “aggressive” and undermine confidence in the global economic recovery from the coronavirus pandemic.“We do see a much more aggressive or assertive China in terms of the way it engages with the world,” Simon Birmingham said on ABC television on Sunday. “These types of actions don’t just hurt Australian businesses, they hurt their Chinese counterparts as well. They undermine confidence in the global economy, and that’s not good for the world’s recovery from Covid.”China has imposed anti-dumping duties of up to 212% on Australian wine, the latest in a raft of measures that have affected imports from coal to copper to barley. Tensions between Beijing and Canberra have been rising since 2018, when Australia barred Huawei Technologies from building its 5G network. Relations worsened this year after Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison called for an inquiry into the origins of Covid-19.Also Read |  China denies restricting Indian ship carrying Australian coal from leaving its portAsked if China’s behavior was economic coercion, Birmingham said: “Right around the world people are posing that question, and I understand why.”China is Australia’s largest trading partner and the biggest buyer of Australian wine. Australia has denied it is dumping wine in China, whose duties took effect on Nov 28 and range from 107.1% to 212.1%.Morrison said on Sunday the government will look at assisting exporters hurt by China’s trade measures.“It is a difficult time and there are tensions,” the prime minister said on ABC radio. “We will do everything we can to ensure that we can try and address these trade issues that have come up with China. Obviously we’re very concerned about that.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-trade-curbs-hurt-global-confidence-says-australia-trade-minister/story-BNp5OLp3FXN06eHmXgxIzI.html
29-11-2020||World||UK secures 2 million more doses of Moderna’s Covid-19 vaccine||Britain has secured two million doses of Moderna Inc’s Covid-19 vaccine candidate, to be available in Europe as early as the spring, the government said on Sunday, in addition to the 5 million doses it secured from the US company two weeks ago.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The new deal came a day after Prime Minister Boris Johnson named Nadhim Zahawi, a junior business minister, to be minister responsible for the deployment of Covid-19 vaccines.Britain now has access to enough doses of Moderna’s vaccine candidate for around 3.5 million people. Overall, it has access to 357 million doses of vaccines from seven developers, according to government statement.“With a wide range of vaccine candidates in our portfolio, we stand ready to deploy a vaccine should they receive approval from our medicines regulator, starting with those who will benefit most,” health minister Matt Hancock said in the statement.Moderna’s experimental vaccine is 94.5% effective in preventing Covid-19 based on interim data from a late-stage trial.Deliveries to Britain could begin as early as the spring, if the vaccine meets the standards of the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency.Also Read | ‘Need to follow Covid-19 protocol even after vaccine is available, masks here to stay’: ICMR chiefBritain has also ordered 40 million doses of a vaccine developed by Germany’s BioNTech SE and Pfizer Inc of the United States, which has been found to be 95% effective in preventing the spread of the new coronavirus. The UK regulator is set to approve the BioNTech-Pfizer vaccine this week, and deliveries will begin within hours of the authorisation, the Financial Times said on Saturday.Britain has also secured 100 million doses of the vaccine developed by AstraZeneca PLC and Oxford University and has targeted a rollout to begin before Christmas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-secures-2-million-more-doses-of-moderna-s-covid-19-vaccine/story-PWwKVfQgEy2DZBW4sg2DkK.html
29-11-2020||World||China finds Covid-19 virus on Chilean seafood packaging||China halted imports from a Chilean seafood producer as a precautionary measure after detecting the Covid-19 virus on the supplier’s packaging.A nucleic acid test on the packaging of a batch of frozen crab showed positive results, the General Administration of Customs said in a statement on its website on Saturday. Import applications from Pesquera Isla Del Rey SA will be suspended for one week, it said.China has been vocal about finding traces of the SARS-CoV-2 pathogen on packaging and food, raising fears that imported items are linked to recent virus resurgences. Beijing has ordered a range of precautionary steps, creating disruptions with its trading partners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-finds-covid-19-virus-on-chilean-seafood-packaging/story-nIvk5GNjcrog4DtwzaWJOK.html
29-11-2020||World||Payrolls in US set to tread higher in pandemic slog: Report||US employers probably continued to beef up their headcounts in November, even though the pace of hiring slowed for a fifth month.Payrolls probably rose by about a half million during the month after a 638,000 gain in October, according to the median projection in a Bloomberg survey of economists ahead of government data due on Friday. The jobless rate is seen easing to 6.8% from 6.9%.More payrolls would still leave total employment well below its pre-pandemic peak, when more than 152 million Americans were working. While the state of the job market has brightened as household savings fuel spending and business investment rebounds, the coronavirus continues to impact a swathe of industries, most notably travel and leisure.What Bloomberg Economics Say...“Recently, the labor market has started to show signs of strain, with jobless claims moving higher and virus-related lockdown measures being reinstituted as case counts surge, but these factors will be more fully felt in the December data. As such, the November data may reflect the final heady gains of the second half rebound/reopening. December will reflect sharp downdrafts due to the third wave of Covid-19.”--Carl Riccadonna, Yelena Shulyatyeva, Andrew Husby and Eliza Winger. Other U.S. economic reports this coming week are projected to show manufacturing expanded at a solid clip in November, while construction spending accelerated a month earlier in conjunction with a robust housing market.Elsewhere in the U.S. economy, Fed Chair Jerome Powell and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin go head-to-head and President-elect Joe Biden is set to unveil his economic team. Wider afield, the OECD presents its latest forecast and central bankers in India, Australia and Israel meet on interest rates.US and CanadaPowell and Mnuchin face off this week over the Trump administration’s controversial decision to wind down several emergency Fed lending programs. Democrats branded the Nov. 19 move as a crude way of denying fiscal support to Biden’s incoming administration.Powell and Mnuchin testify before the Senate Banking Committee on Tuesday, and a day later before the House Financial Services Committee, in a quarterly appearance to discuss the CARES Act, under which Congress in March authorized over $2 trillion in pandemic aid.Mnuchin extended four pre-CARES Act facilities for 90 days, but declined Powell’s request to do the same for Fed lending facilities for mid-sized borrowers and cash-strapped municipalities. He also demanded back several hundred billion dollars in unused CARES Act funds, which Powell subsequently agreed to do.In Canada, Justin Trudeau, already one of the world’s most enthusiastic champions of fiscal stimulus, will deliver another dose of spending this week to fuel his country’s economic recovery and respond to a second wave of the pandemic. His government is set to present a fiscal update on Monday. That’s ahead of GDP data on Tuesday that’s likely to show a third-quarter rebound that’s already stalled.AsiaJapan’s production and retail sales data on Monday will offer the latest measure of the recovery’s strength, while capital spending figures on Tuesday will be used to revise third quarter gross domestic product figures. Speeches by Bank of Japan board members will shed light on current thinking at the central bank.Korea’s export statistics on Tuesday will show global trade’s recent pulse.China’s PMI report on Monday will give the first official reading of the economy’s momentum in November, while regional manufacturing gauges the next day will show how well factories are coping as their outlook is threatened by the renewed spread of Covid-19 across much of Europe and the USAustralia’s central bank is expected to have a quiet meeting on Tuesday after unveiling its new quantitative easing program and cutting rates to fresh lows at its November meeting. Governor Philip Lowe will brief a parliamentary committee on how all of that is progressing and on other issues on Wednesday, the same day third-quarter GDP numbers are set to show a recovery from recession has begun.On Friday, the Reserve Bank of India is widely expected to keep benchmark rates unchanged, given a spike in headline inflation, but will reiterate its accommodative policy stance to help the economy recover.Europe, Middle East, AfricaWith the U.K.’s crucial spending review out of the way, attention will be turning to crunch talks with the European Union over Brexit, as both sides race to reach a trade deal before the transition period expires in just over a month.On the data front, euro-area inflation figures on Tuesday will likely cement expectations that the European Central Bank will top up its stimulus program on Dec. 10. ECB President Christine Lagarde is scheduled to speak twice before her institution starts its quiet period on Dec. 3.Denmark and Iceland report GDP growth estimates for the third quarter after posting record contractions in the previous three months.In eastern Europe, Poland’s central bank is expected to keep interest rates on hold. Czech Prime Minister Andrej Babis will try to persuade other parliamentary parties to curb back planned tax overhaul after lawmakers approved a version that deepens the budget deficit more than he expected.Turkey may report a modest rebound in economic activity on Monday, with analysts forecasting 5% growth in the third quarter after a 9.9% contraction in the second. But inflation data on Thursday will probably show prices rose by about 13% in November, a month that saw the start of sweeping reforms of economic policies following the resignation of Berat Albayrak, the president’s son-in-law, as economy czar.The Bank of Israel, reluctant to take interest rates negative, will probably keep its benchmark at 0.1% on Monday, though it’s struggling to control appreciation of the shekel, now at a 12-year high. Botswana’s central bank, after cutting its benchmark rate to a record low in October, is set to hold on Thursday.Latin AmericaChile’s October retails sales, industrial output and economic activity reports out Monday and Tuesday should be consistent with an economy pulling out of recession even if it’s not yet firing on all cylinders.In Colombia, minutes of the central bank’s Nov. 27 meeting posted Monday may offer guidance on the timing of policy tightening from the current record low 1.75%.In Brazil on Monday, the October budget report from the central bank will show ballooning deficits and mounting public debt, which some forecasts put near 100% of GDP by year-end. Much of the red ink is due to a massive income support program for roughly 30% of the population that’s boosted President Jair Bolsonaro’s popularity and likely has Brazil heading for the shallowest 2020 recession of the region’s six biggest economies. Third-quarter output data published Thursday should feature the highest year-on-year result among the region’s larger economies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/payrolls-in-us-set-to-tread-higher-in-pandemic-slog-report/story-Nl4QQn7Y9KZovydKhxunGL.html
29-11-2020||World||Man killed dad’s cat with frying pan on Thanksgiving: Police||Police in Maine have arrested a man accused of killing his father’s cat with a frying pan on Thanksgiving — a day after he was released on bail for a separate incident.The Bangor Daily News reports that 43-year-old Ryan T. Carleton faces new charges including animal cruelty and violating the conditions of his previous release.The Daily News reports that the man’s father called police in Piscataquis County on Thursday to report that he had found his cat’s body after he let his son stay with him the night before.Carleton had been released on bail Wednesday following an arrest on charges that he stole his mother’s car.An address and phone number could not be located for Carleton, a former Guilford resident. It was not immediately clear whether he was represented by an attorney. He is being held pending a court hearing scheduled for Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/man-killed-dad-s-cat-with-frying-pan-on-thanksgiving-police/story-rAGEaSNv2h1ZDKaWLaG3kO.html
29-11-2020||World||How close is Iran to producing a nuclear bomb?||A 2015 nuclear deal between Iran and world powers is being eroded and efforts to revive the pact face a new challenge with the killing of Tehran’s top nuclear scientist.The accord’s restrictions on Iran’s atomic work had one objective: to extend the “breakout time” for Tehran to produce enough fissile material for a bomb, if it decided to make one, to at least a year from about two to three months.Iran maintains that it has never sought nuclear weapons and never would. It says its nuclear work only has civilian aims.Tehran began breaching the deal’s curbs last year in a step-by-step response to President Donald Trump’s withdrawal from the deal in May 2018 and the reimposition of US sanctions.Also Read | Iran vows to avenge nuke scientist’s assassinationThis has shortened the breakout time but reports by the U.N. International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), which polices the deal, indicate that Iran is not moving ahead with its nuclear work as fast as it could.European states have sought to save the nuclear deal, pressing Tehran to comply even as Washington has tightened sanctions, and holding out hopes of a change in US policy once President-elect Joe Biden takes office on Jan. 20.Biden was part of the US administration under Barack Obama that negotiated the 2015 deal.What has Iran done till now?ran has contravened many of the deal’s restrictions but is still cooperating with the IAEA and granting inspectors access under one of the most intrusive nuclear verification regimes imposed on any nation.* Enriched uranium - The deal limits Iran’s stockpile of enriched uranium to 202.8 kg, a fraction of the more than eight tonnes it possessed before the deal. The limit was breached last year. The IAEA report in November put the stockpile at 2,442.9 kg.* Enrichment level - The deal caps the fissile purity to which Iran can refine uranium at 3.67%, far below the 20% achieved before the deal and below the weapons-grade level of 90%. Iran breached the 3.67% cap in July 2019 and the enrichment level has remained steady at up to 4.5% since then.* Centrifuges - The deal allows Iran to produce enriched uranium using about 5,000 first-generation IR-1 centrifuges at its underground Natanz plant, which was built to house more than 50,000. It can operate small numbers of more advanced models above ground without accumulating enriched uranium. Iran had roughly 19,000 installed centrifuges before the deal.In 2019, the IAEA said Iran had begun enrichment with advanced centrifuges at an above-ground pilot plant at Natanz. Since then, Iran started moving three cascades, or clusters, of advanced centrifuges to the underground plant. In November, the IAEA said Iran had fed uranium hexafluoride gas feedstock into the first of those underground cascades.* Fordow - The deal bans enrichment at Fordow, a site Iran secretly built inside a mountain and that was exposed by Western intelligence services in 2009. Centrifuges are allowed there for other purposes, like producing stable isotopes. Iran now has 1,044 IR-1 centrifuges enriching there.How close is Iran to having a bomb?The breaches lengthened the breakout time but estimates still vary. Many diplomats and nuclear experts say the starting point of one year is conservative and Iran would need longer.David Albright, a former U.N. weapons inspector who tends to have a hawkish position on Iran, estimated in November that Iran’s breakout time could be “as short as 3.5 months”, although this presumes Iran would use 1,000 advanced centrifuges that were removed under the deal.What more would Iran need to do?If Iran accumulated sufficient fissile material, it would need to assemble a bomb and probably one small enough to be carried by its ballistic missiles. How long that would take exactly is unclear, but stockpiling enough fissile material is widely seen as the biggest hurdle in producing a weapon.US intelligence agencies and the IAEA believe Iran once had a nuclear weapons programme that it halted. There is evidence suggesting Iran obtained a design for a nuclear weapon and carried out various types of work relevant to making one.Tehran continues to grant the IAEA access to its declared nuclear facilities and allow snap inspections elsewhere.Iran and the IAEA resolved a standoff this year that had lasted several months over access to two suspected former sites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/how-close-is-iran-to-producing-a-nuclear-bomb/story-cldqeNAnACYJrwSxJMxIjJ.html
29-11-2020||World||UK, France agree on new plan to curb illegal migration across English Channel||The British government said Saturday that it had struck an agreement with France to double the number of French police patrolling beaches in the country’s north in an attempt to stop people crossing the English Channel in small boats.Britain’s Home Office said Home Secretary Priti Patel and French Interior Minister Gerald Darmanin had agreed on the measure as part of efforts to make the route “unviable” for people-smugglers. The agreement also will boost surveillance using “drones, radar equipment, optronic binoculars and fixed cameras,” the U.K. said.It said the two countries had agreed to spend 31.4 million euros ($41 million) on the measures.Migrants have long used northern France as a launching point to reach Britain — usually in trucks or on ferries —and the issue has long strained relations between the two countries.Many migrants appear to have turned to small boats organized by smugglers during the coronavirus pandemic because virus restrictions have reduced traffic between France and Britain. More than 8,000 people have made the dangerous journey so far this year, up from about 1,800 in all of 2019.Last month, a family from Iran, including two parents and their children aged 6 and 9, died when their boat capsized in the Channel. Their 15-month-old son is missing and presumed drowned.Aid and human rights groups say the best way to stop the journeys is to provide safe routes for people to seek asylum in Britain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-france-agree-on-new-plan-to-curb-illegal-migration-across-english-channel/story-hnQaMCVDekMwoSXCD4zBeO.html
29-11-2020||World||Severe fire danger for Australia as temperatures smash records||Parts of Australia, including Sydney, sweltered through the hottest November night on record with temperatures likely to stay high on Sunday, prompting authorities to issue a total fire ban.Sydney CBD surpassed 40 degrees Celsius (104 F) on Saturday while swathes of western New South Wales, South Australia and northern Victoria baked through even higher temperatures nearing 45 degrees.Temperatures are expected to cross 40 degrees for a second straight day on Sunday while the Bureau of Meteorology has predicted a five or six-day heatwave for parts of northern New South Wales and southeast Queensland.The predictions for soaring temperatures prompted the Australian Energy Market Operator (AEMO) to say demand may exceed supply in New South Wales on Sunday afternoon.Australia has been experiencing hotter and longer summers with last season dubbed “Black Summer” by Prime Minister Scott Morrison due to unusually prolonged and intense bushfires that burned nearly 12 million hectares (30 million acres), killed 33 people and an estimated 1 billion animals.The Rural Fire Service issued a total fire ban for most of eastern and northeastern NSW for Sunday, saying there was a “very high to severe fire danger forecast” as hot, gusty winds exacerbate dry conditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/severe-fire-danger-for-australia-as-temperatures-smash-records/story-ApUBMMQTt7vNrxBZYqsjhM.html
29-11-2020||World||Thousands in Argentina march against new move to legalize abortion||Thousands of anti-abortion protesters, many of them mobilized by Catholic or evangelical groups, demonstrated on Saturday across Argentina against a government-backed new bill to legalize abortion.The largest group congregated in Buenos Aires before the Congress, which is expected in the coming week to begin debating legislation on a matter that has bitterly divided the traditionally Catholic South American nation.Marchers around the country carried signs with slogans like “Save Both Lives!” and “March for the Unborn.” Jorge Gomez, executive director of Aciera, the Christian Alliance of Evangelical Churches of Argentina, called it a “spontaneous outpouring”.Argentines who support women’s right to choose also called for people to take to the streets.The National Campaign for the Right to Legal, Safe and Free Abortion urged backers to “paint Argentina green in coming weeks” -- to wave green handkerchiefs as a symbol of women’s rights.Gomez, however, said it was inappropriate for the draft legislation to be taken up amid the ongoing pandemic and at a time when “Argentine society needs unity to solve structural problems such as poverty.”This will be the ninth time in majority-Catholic Argentina -- homeland of Pope Francis -- that a bill to legalize abortion has been presented in parliament.On the last occasion, in 2018, it gained approval in the Chamber of Deputies but was rejected in the Senate. This will be the first time such legislation originated in the country’s executive branch via a proposal from President Alberto Fernandez. Fernandez has said the new legislation would guarantee “that all women have access to the right to comprehensive health care.”Under a law first passed in 1920, Argentina permits abortions only in cases of rape or danger to the life of the mother.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thousands-in-argentina-march-against-new-move-to-legalize-abortion/story-kdNR8zT4DUH5rfrNauJb7J.html
29-11-2020||World||Ex-Trump campaign aide sues over Russia probe surveillance||A former Trump campaign associate who was the target of a secret surveillance warrant during the FBI’s Russia investigation says in a federal lawsuit that he was the victim of “unlawful spying.”The suit from Carter Page alleges a series of omissions and errors made by FBI and Justice Department officials in applications they submitted in 2016 and 2017 to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court to eavesdrop on Page on suspicion that he was an agent of Russia.“Since not a single proven fact ever established complicity with Russia involving Dr. Page, there never was probable cause to seek or obtain the FISA Warrants targeting him on this basis,” the lawsuit says, using the acronym for the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act.Also Read | Trump pardons Michael Flynn, taking direct aim at Russia probePage has received death and kidnapping threats and has suffered economic losses and “irreparable damage to his reputation,” according to the lawsuit, which was filed Friday in federal court in Washington.The lawsuit to some extent echoes the conclusions of a Justice Department inspector general report that found significant problems with the four applications. Former FBI and Justice Department leaders who were involved in signing off on the surveillance have since testified they wouldn’t have done so had they known of the extent of the issues, and the FBI has initiated more than 40 corrective steps aimed at improving the accuracy and thoroughness of applications.In the complaint, Page accuses the FBI of relying excessively for information on Christopher Steele, a former British spy whose research during the 2016 campaign into Donald Trump’s ties to Russia was funded by Democrats. It says the FBI failed to tell the surveillance court that Steele’s primary source had contradicted information that Steele had attributed to him, or that Page had denied to an informant for the FBI having “any involvement with Russia on behalf of the Trump campaign.”The complaint also accuses the FBI of having misled the surveillance court about his relationship with the CIA, for whom Page had been an operational contact between 2008 and 2013. A former FBI lawyer, Kevin Clinesmith, pleaded guilty in August to altering an email to say that Page had not been a source for the CIA.The suit names as defendants the FBI and the Justice Department, as well as former FBI Director James Comey, former FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe and additional officials who were involved in the Russia investigation.Despite the problems with the warrant applications, the scrutiny of Page, who was never charged with any wrongdoing, accounted for only a narrow portion of the overall investigation into ties between the Trump campaign and Russia.The same inspector general report that detailed problems in the applications also concluded that the FBI had a legitimate basis for opening the Russia investigation, and did not find evidence that any of its actions were influenced by political bias.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ex-trump-campaign-aide-sues-over-russia-probe-surveillance/story-aqGLzIDAQrZAV8zunK4wXL.html
29-11-2020||World||Donald Trump vows to press on in Wisconsin despite recount setback||President Donald Trump isn’t abandoning his drive to overturn the election results in Wisconsin, despite state officials announcing a recount in Milwaukee county had only added to Democrat Joe Biden’s lead.“The Wisconsin recount is not about finding mistakes in the count, it is about finding people who have voted illegally, and that case will be brought after the recount is over, on Monday or Tuesday,” tweeted Trump on Saturday.Also Read: Trump wants courts to step in, maintain US ‘integrity’ as Biden set to form cabinetTwitter flagged Trump’s tweet about “many illegal votes” for making a disputed claim about election fraud.Trump’s promise to bring another legal case in Wisconsin comes after recount results announced Friday in Milwaukee county -- the state’s most populous -- gave Biden a net gain of 132 votes, out of nearly 460,000 cast. The Democrat gained 257 votes to Trump’s 125.Recounts rarely show more than a small number of vote changes, and the Milwaukee effort was no exception. Biden won the state by over 20,000 votes, an outcome that’s expected to be certified on Tuesday.Results are expected on Sunday from a recount in Wisconsin’s Dane county, which includes the Democratic-leaning state capital of Madison. The Trump campaign paid $3 million to the state of Wisconsin for recounts in the two counties.Silent in courtTrump and his legal team, led by Rudy Giuliani, have made multiple assertions of election fraud on Twitter and while talking to the media. But those allegations haven’t surfaced in court, where evidence must be presented.On Friday, a Trump-appointed judge in Pennsylvania made note of that discrepancy in rejecting the president’s attempt to revive a lawsuit seeking to undo the state’s certification of Biden as the winner.Also Read: Trump, still defiant, says he’ll give up power if electoral college backs Biden“Charges of unfairness are serious. But calling an election unfair does not make it so. Charges require specific allegations and then proof. We have neither here,” wrote U.S. Circuit Court Judge Stephanos Bibas.Trump attorney Jenna Ellis quickly promised an appeal of the decision to the U.S. Supreme Court. Trump echoed that on Saturday, saying “we will appeal!” Another Trump tweet about Pennsylvania was also flagged by Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-vows-to-press-on-in-wisconsin-despite-recount-setback/story-97jaSFITXOEDGPwGHQA5zJ.html
29-11-2020||World||Former head of CIA calls assassination of Iranian nuclear scientist ‘criminal and reckless act’||The former head of the CIA labelled the assassination of a top Iranian nuclear scientist on Friday a “criminal” act that risks inflaming conflict in the region. John Brennan said he did not know who was to blame for the murder of Mohsen Fakhrizadeh.“This was a criminal act & highly reckless. It risks lethal retaliation & a new round of regional conflict,” Brennan said in a series of tweets. “I do not know whether a foreign government authorised or carried out the murder of Fakhrizadeh,” he said. “Such an act of state-sponsored terrorism would be a flagrant violation of international law & encourage more governments to carry out lethal attacks against foreign officials.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/former-head-of-cia-calls-assassination-of-iranian-nuclear-scientist-criminal-and-reckless-act/story-IjLx9c663t0NbkIYZXvXjJ.html
29-11-2020||World||Iran vows to avenge nuke scientist’s assassination||Iran’s supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei has called for “definitive punishment” of those behind the killing of a scientist linked to Tehran’s disbanded military nuclear programme, according to his official website. He said Mohsen Fakhrizadeh was “the country’s prominent and distinguished nuclear and defensive scientist”.Iran has blamed Israel for the killing. Israel, long suspected of killing scientists a decade ago amid tensions over Tehran’s nuclear programme, has yet to comment on the developments.Iran’s President Hassan Rouhani accused Israel of acting as a “mercenary” for the US, blaming it for the assassination. “Once again, the wicked hands of the global arrogance, with the usurper Zionist regime as the mercenary, were stained with the blood of a son of this nation,” Rouhani said in a statement.The slaying threatens to renew tensions between the US and Iran in the waning days of President Donald Trump’s term.Rouhani said Fakhrizadeh’s death won’t stop its nuclear programme. Iran’s civilian nuclear programme has continued its experiments and enriches uranium up to 4.5% - far below weapons-grade levels of 90%.“We will respond to the assassination of martyr Fakhrizadeh in a proper time,” Rouhani said. The attack happened in Absard, a village east of Tehran that is a retreat for the Iranian elite. State television said a truck with bombs hidden under a load of wood blew up near a sedan carrying Fakhrizadeh.US aircraft carrier USS Nimitz was deployed to the Gulf this week, days before the killing, although the US Navy said on Saturday the deployment was not related to any specific threat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-vows-to-avenge-nuke-scientist-s-assassination/story-mEcrgm26dRWCCEEl8cXmgK.html
29-11-2020||World||US sees over 200,000 Covid cases in one day||In an alarming sign, the US has reported more than 200,000 single-day coronavirus infections for the first time, following the Thanksgiving break. Los Angeles County, which has been reporting over 4,500 daily infections for five days in a row, will halt all social gatherings for three weeks.While Covid-19 continues to spread across the US, infecting over 13 million people, European countries have decided to start easing some of the curbs keeping in view the festive season. The UK appointed a vaccines minister on Saturday as it prepares to inoculate millions of people against the coronavirus. PM Boris Johnson said Conservative lawmaker Nadhim Zahawi will oversee the country’s biggest vaccine programme in decades.Meanwhile, the World Health Organization’s (WHO) top emergencies expert said on Friday it would be “highly speculative” for the WHO to say the coronavirus did not emerge in China.China is pushing a narrative that the virus existed abroad before it was discovered in Wuhan, citing the presence of the virus on imported frozen food packaging and studies saying it had been circulating in Europe last year.“I think it’s highly speculative for us to say that the disease did not emerge in China,” Mike Ryan said at a virtual briefing in Geneva. “It is clear from a public health perspective that you start your investigations where the human cases first emerged,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-sees-over-200-000-covid-cases-in-one-day/story-KGIFMkZg3qutOPvsvQn9SN.html
29-11-2020||World||Links with slavery? Welsh govt audit puts Mahatma Gandhi on a list of controversial individuals||An audit published by the Welsh government on the historical links of Wales with slavery has included Mahatma Gandhi on a list of controversial individuals whose statues are located across Britain, adding to similar reviews prompted by the Black Lives Matter campaign.The audit was commissioned in July by Labour’s Mark Drakeford, the first minister of Wales, following George Floyd’s controversial death in the US. Several councils and organisations across the UK have since initiated such reviews, at times provoking surprise and anger with the inclusion of names such as former British PM Winston Churchill.There is no suggestion that Gandhi’s statue installed in the Welsh capital of Cardiff in 2017 would be pulled down, but the audit’s objective is to “identify issues for a possible second stage”. The list includes colonial India’s officials with Welsh links such as Robert Clive and Edward Clive.The audit says that Gandhi’s role needs examination after his controversial views were highlighted by campaigners. Besides Gandhi, the list of “international” figures in the audit includes anti-apartheid leader Nelson Mandela, explorer Christopher Columbus and artiste Paul Robeson.On Gandhi, the audit says his “personal culpability (is) uncertain”, but goes on to add, “The leader of the Indian independence movement (was) famous for his promotion of anti-colonialism, non-violent resistance and satyagraha or the force of truth. After studying law in London he went to practise in South Africa 1893-1914.“He fought anti-Indian discrimination in Africa, but has been accused of complicity in continuing racism against Black South Africans. His comment in a speech in 1896 that whites were degrading Hindus and Muslims ‘to a level of Kaffir’ is taken as suggesting that he believed Indians to be better than Black Africans.”The audit further says, “Historians have taken a range of views of his culpability, saying that it would have been premature to expect equality in turn-of-the-century South Africa or identifying Gandhi as having turned a blind eye to brutality against Africans. Nevertheless, Gandhi’s later leadership in India inspired leaders in Africa, including Nelson Mandela. A statue of Gandhi in Pietermartizburg was unveiled in 1993 by Desmond Tutu.”Gandhi’s life-size statue produced by Ram Sutar and Anil Sutar was installed in Cardiff Bay in 2017 in an event attended by Drakeford and Indian diplomats, among others. It is one of several Gandhi statues across the UK, including two in London.Drakeford said after the audit was published, “While the tragic killing of George Floyd happened almost 4,000 miles away, it sparked global action that shone a light on racial inequality in society today.“That inequality exists in Welsh society too and we must work towards a Wales which is more equal. To help us do this, we need a clear understanding of the legacies of the slave trade and the British Empire. This audit provides important evidence which helps us establish an honest picture of our history.“This is the first stage of a much bigger piece of work which will consider how we move forward with this information as we seek to honour and celebrate our diverse communities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/links-with-slavery-welsh-govt-audit-puts-mahatma-gandhi-on-a-list-of-controversial-individuals/story-2W93B5ZKjCxDZiK9k6Gv3M.html
29-11-2020||World||Mysterious monolith found in US Desert draws wild theories about aliens, UFOs||A mysterious metal obelisk found buried in the remote western United States desert has inflamed the imaginations of UFO spotters, conspiracy theorists and Stanley Kubrick fans around the world.The shiny, triangular pillar -- which protrudes approximately 12 feet from the red rocks of southern Utah -- was spotted last Wednesday by baffled local officials counting bighorn sheep from the air.After landing their helicopter to investigate, Utah Department of Public Safety crew members found “a metal monolith installed in the ground” but “no obvious indication of who might have put the monolith there.”“It is illegal to install structures or art without authorization on federally managed public lands, no matter what planet you’re from,” warned the agency in a tongue-in-cheek press release Monday. News of the discovery quickly went viral online, with many noting the object’s similarity with strange alien monoliths that trigger huge leaps in human progress in Kubrick’s classic sci-fi film “2001: A Space Odyssey.”Others remarked on its discovery during a turbulent year that has seen the world gripped by the Covid-19 pandemic, and optimistically speculated it could have a different function entirely.“This is the ‘reset’ button for 2020. Can someone please press it quickly?” joked one Instagram user.“Up close it reads: ‘Covid vaccine inside’“ wrote another.Although officials have refused to disclose the object’s location out of fear that hordes of curious sightseers would flock to the remote wilderness, a Reddit user said they had managed to geo-locate the obelisk using surrounding rock formations.Sharing the Google Earth location -- where a small structure can be seen, roughly six miles from the nearest road -- the user said the structure was first photographed by Google in 2016.Bret Hutchings, the pilot who happened to fly over the obelisk, speculated that it had been planted by “some new wave artist.”Some observers pointed out the object’s resemblance to the avant-garde work of John McCracken, a US artist who lived for a time in nearby New Mexico, and died in 2011.On Tuesday a spokeswoman for his representative David Zwirner said it was not one of McCracken’s works, but possibly by a fellow artist paying homage.However later in the day Zwirner gave another statement in which he suggested the piece was indeed by McCracken, meaning it had lain undiscovered in the desert for nearly a decade.“The gallery is divided on this,” Zwirner said. “I believe this is definitely by John.”He added: “Who would have known that 2020 had yet another surprise for us. Just when we thought we had seen it all. Let’s go see it.”Either way, Hutchings admitted it was “about the strangest thing I’ve come across out there, in all my years of flying.”“We were kind of joking around that if one of us suddenly disappears, then the rest of us make a run for it,” he told local news channel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mysterious-monolith-found-in-us-desert-draws-wild-theories-about-aliens-ufos/story-jwecJebidSVnl9qpVQAsmO.html
29-11-2020||India||Jammu and Kashmir reports 471 fresh cases of Covid-19||Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday recorded five deaths and 471 fresh coronavirus infections, taking the Covid-19 tally to 1,09,854 and death toll 1,685.Officials said 211 people tested positive in Kashmir and 260 in Jammu. While three persons succumbed to the diseases in Jammu, two died in Kashmir. They also said that 103,082 people so far have recovered in the union territory after 491 patients were discharged on Sunday taking the recovery rate to 93.83%, the highest so far. There are 5,087 active cases. A total of 1,101 people have succumbed to the disease in Kashmir and 584 in Jammu. Covid-19 fatalities have reached 207 in November. As many as 293 people died in October, 478 in September and 326 succumbed to the infection in August.The death toll crossed 500-mark on August 13, 1,000-mark on September 20 and 1,500-mark on November 03.With 15,064 cases, November, so far, has recorded an average of 519 daily infections against an average of 632 daily cases in October and 1,245 cases in September. An average seven deaths a day have been reported in November so far, 10 were reported in October on an average per day against 16 in September.The total number of tests conducted in the UT has crossed 29.95 lakh.In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 86 more people tested positive, followed by Baramulla with 31 cases.In Jammu division, the highest number of cases was recorded in Jammu district at 122, followed by 26 in Udhampur.Srinagar tops the case tally with 22,975 cases and 416 deaths, followed by Jammu district with 20,596 cases and 298 deaths.Till date, 7.86 lakh people have been enlisted for observation – 20,673 in home quarantine, 5,087 in isolation, and 39,874 under home surveillance. Besides, 7.19 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-reports-471-fresh-cases-of-covid-19/story-RjgP1alVjqVqyuymqAEvcM.html
29-11-2020||India||Bimal Gurung’s faction GJM targets ex-ally BJP in first hill rally in Bengal||The Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM) faction headed by Bimal Gurung on Sunday held its first rally in the Darjeeling region after three and a half years and targeted the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Gurung’s former ally. Faction’s general secretary Roshan Giri, and other speakers, tried to explain at the well-attended rally why they severed ties with the BJP and joined hands with the Trinamool Congress (TMC) against which it had carried out a movement till 2017. Though wanted by the state in connection with several criminal cases and charged under anti-terror law, Gurung surfaced in Kolkata on October 21 and offered an olive branch to Mamata Banerjee. He plans to address a rally in Siliguri on December 6. Also read: India rejects Pak-sponsored references to Kashmir issue in OIC resolutionsGiri said the BJP governments had assured the Gorkhas before three successive Lok Sabha polls that political crisis in the hills would be solved but nothing was done. “Actually they don’t have the political will to find a permanent political solution. Why does the Centre make tripartite talks a prerequisite when it comes to the Gorkhas? The creation of Telangana, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Uttarakhand did not require tripartite talks,” Giri said. The Gorkhas lost 15 years because of the BJP, he added. The BJP has been winning the Darjeeling Lok Sabha seat since 2009 with support from the GJM. The BJP promised to find a permanent political solution to the Gorkhaland issue and accord scheduled tribe status to 11 Gorkha sub-communities. Giri said the hill people have to understand the circumstances under which the GJM joined hands with the TMC. The state government suppressed the Gorkhaland movement in 2017 after Binoy Tamang and Anit Thapa, the two senior leaders of the party, became allies of the TMC. They floated another faction of the party while Gurung, the founder president, and his aides went into hiding to evade arrest. Thousands of Gurung’s supporters, who had been maintaining a low profile all these years, hit the streets on Sunday. Giri and the other speakers alleged that the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) run by the GJM’s Binoy Tamang faction is involved in corruption. GJM leaders Dipen Maley and Yogendra Rai claimed that there have been rampant corruption in the appointment of primary school teachers and 70 per cent of the fund allocated for development have been siphoned. Giri demanded a special audit. Anit Thapa, general secretary of the GJM’s Binoy Tamang faction, is the chairman of the GTA board of administrators. Keshav Raj Pokhrel, spokesperson of the Tamang faction said, “Gurung and his men are a private limited company that supports anyone to serve its vested interest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bimal-gurung-faction-gjm-targets-ex-ally-bjp-in-first-hill-rally-in-bengal/story-TKHJBVG2D4EGUxE0LXkwzL.html
29-11-2020||India||Abhishek Banerjee targets Suvendu Adhikari, TMC flexes muscle on ex-minister’s turf||Two days after rebel Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Suvendu Adhikari resigned from the cabinet, chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew and Lok Sabha member Abhishek Banerjee on Sunday targeted the heavyweight leader at his first election rally even as TMC held two rallies in Adhikari’s turf in East Midnapore. Assembly election is due in West Bengal in the first half of next year.“Mamata Banerjee was not made in a day. Do not belittle her. A lot of people laid down their lives for the TMC. No TMC worker went up in an elevator or descend in a parachute,” Banerjee said during an aggressive speech in his constituency Diamond Harbour. “Had I descended in a parachute I would have held 35 portfolios. I would have contested the polls from south Kolkata, where I live. The party sent me to Diamond Harbour, where I had to start from scratch,” he said.Though Banerjee did not name anyone it was apparent who his target was since it was Adhikari who, while addressing a rally in East Midnapore on November 10, said, “I am known to all as someone who worked on the ground. Neither did I go up in an elevator nor did I descend in a parachute.”Incidentally, Adhikari is known for holding important positions. On Thursday night, he resigned from the post of chairman of the Hooghly River Bridge Commissioners and on Friday he quit the Haldia Development Authority where he was the chairman. Apart from transport, Adhikari was also in charge of water resources investigation and development and irrigation and waterways. Sunday’s rally was held at Satgachhia which is part of the Diamond Harbour Lok Sabha segment. This was Banerjee’s first public meeting in eight months. “Will you spare someone who betrays the mother of the party? Will you spare someone who pursues personal ambition and betrays the party? Will you accept it if someone spreads canards and becomes the stooge of a rival party,” Banerjee shouted at the TMC workers amid loud applause. Senior TMC leaders had earlier this month told this correspondent that Adhikari is particularly unhappy with organizational decisions taken by the Abhishek Banerjee and election strategist Prashant Kishor who was roped in after the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) won 18 of the state’s 42 Lok Sabha seats in 2019. On November 10, Adhikari threw a veiled challenge at the leadership. “I am not afraid of anyone. We will meet in the battlefield,” he said without naming anyone or even the TMC. Differences between Adhikari and the TMC leadership widened after he wanted the party to field candidates of his choice in 65 assembly seats spread across several districts. This is unacceptable to the leadership. The TMC held two back-to-back rallies at Haldia and Kanthi in East Midnapore on Sunday in a bid to send a strong message to Adhikari and local party workers. Incidentally, the TMC rallies were led by ministers who are younger than most members of the cabinet. “An attempt is being made to divide Bengal. But we will not let that happen. Mamata Banerjee grew up through peoples’ movements,” minister Sujit Bose said at the rally in Haldia. Another minister, Rajib Banerjee, said, “This rally could not have been so successful had people not been with us. Mamata Banerjee has stood the test of time and people have faith in her.” The TMC rally at Kanthi was addressed by minister Bratya Basu. “I do not want to comment on Adhikari as he is there in the party,” Basu said on the sidelines of the rally. Adhikari was in Mahishadal in the East Midnapore on Sunday. He addressed a public meeting held in the memory of freedom fighter Ranajit Kumar Boyal who died on November 13 at the age of 94. Though he did not make any political statement, Adhikari ended his speech saying, “People have the last word. I will work for the people and always remain accountable to them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/abhishek-banerjee-targets-suvendu-adhikari-tmc-flexes-muscle-on-ex-minister-s-turf/story-DCT71xN0CTn6ntwQlhlRwM.html
29-11-2020||India||Amit Shah at JP Nadda’s residence as BJP brass meets to discuss farmers’ protest||The BJP brass went into a huddle on Sunday night at party president JP Nadda’s residence over the issue of farmers’ protest. According to a person aware of the developments Union home minister Amit Shah, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and defence minister Rajnath Rajnath Singh are also present in the meeting. The meeting comes a day after Shah reached out to the farmers and said that talks can be held ahead of the scheduled date of December 3 if the farmers moved to the site in Burari that had been prepared for them. On Sunday, Shah who was campaigning for the party in Hyderabad, said that the new laws are meant for the welfare of the farmers and those who are critical of the laws are politicising the issue.“I have never said the farmers protest is political and would never say that,” he said as he appealed to the farmers to call off their agitation. Prime Minister Narendra Modi also hailed the new laws for improving the lot of the farmers. In his radio broadcast Mann Ki Baat, the Prime Minister said new dimensions are being added to agriculture and its related activities in India and the agriculture reforms have opened up new doors of possibilities for the farmers. The Prime Minister praised the new legislations and said the reforms have not only broken shackles of farmers but have also given new rights and opportunities to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-at-jp-nadda-s-residence-as-bjp-brass-meets-to-discuss-farmers-protest/story-RxFufHTulyZ8NA0aurPM5H.html
29-11-2020||India||AAP will stand by protesting farmers, says Raghav Chadha | Top developments||The Aam Aadmi Party will support the protesting farmers and will arrange for their food, water, electricity as directed by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, party’s national spokesperson Raghav Chadha said on Sunday. “Wherever farmers want to protest in Delhi, they should be given permission. As per Delhi CM directives, AAP govt will play the role of Sewadar for protesting farmers. We’ll arrange langar, water, electricity etc. for them. We will stand by the farmers,” he said.The protest spearheaded by 32 farmers’ organisations against the three recently passed agricultural laws entered its fourth day on Sunday with signs of intensifying as the protesters have threatened to block all entry points to the Capital. The organisations have also rejected centre’s “conditional’ dialogue proposal.Here are the top 10 developments:1. Protesters who reached Burari’s Nirankari Samagam Ground, the designated place for the agitation, on Saturday held protests on Sunday.2. Those who are protesting at Delhi’s borders said they would not move to Burari ground. “The condition put for talks is an insult to farmers. We will never go to Burari. It is not a park but an open jail,” Surjeet S Phul, Bhartiya Kisan Union’s Punjab president, said. Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla, in a letter to the organisations, said that as soon as all protesters shift to Burari, a high-level committee of Union ministers will hold talks at Vigyan Bhavan with the representatives of all farmers’ unions.3. The border blockade will not end, the president said adding that the protesters will block all five entry points to Delhi.4. The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee said the home ministry should not lead the discussions as agriculture was outside its jurisdiction. They demanded a Cabinet committee or a group of ministers for discussion.5. The protesters have also decided to not let anyone speak at their protests6. Several Khaps or caste councils from Haryana have extended support to the farmers’ ongoing protest and will march towards the national capital.7. Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his Mann ki Baat address said the farm reforms will free farmers from various shackles and will give them new rights and opportunities. 8. Union home minister Amit Shah said he never alleged that the protest ws political. “Whoever wants to oppose it politically let them do it. I have never said the farmers protest is political and would never say (that it is political,” he said.9. BJP chief JP Nadda, Union home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh and Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar held a meeting over farmers protest at the BJP chief’s residence.10. Singhu and Tikri borders remain closed, according to Delhi Traffic Police’s latest updates. “Singhu border is still closed from both sides. Please take alternate route.Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba Chowk & GTK road.Traffic is very very heavy. Please avoid outer ring road from signature bridge to Rohini & vice versa, GTK road, NH 44 & Singhu borders. Tikri border is closed for any traffic movement. Available open borders to Haryana are Jharoda,Dhansa ,Daurala Jhatikera,Badusari,Kapashera, Rajokri NH 8,Bijwasan/Bajghera,Palam vihar and Dundahera borders,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aap-will-stand-by-protesting-farmers-says-raghav-chadha-top-developments/story-53cxPfxz0xUgJFIz6i9daP.html
29-11-2020||India||‘Unwarranted’: India rejects Pak-sponsored references to Kashmir issue in OIC resolutions||India on Sunday rejected references to the country and the Kashmir issue in resolutions adopted at a meeting of foreign ministers of member states of the Organisation of Islamic Conference (OIC), describing them as “factually incorrect, gratuitous and unwarranted”.As first reported by Hindustan Times, the Kashmir issue wasn’t on the official agenda for the meeting of the OIC’s council of foreign ministers (CFM) held in Niger during November 27-28. Pakistan proposed a resolution on the Kashmir issue to compensate for OIC’s decision not to include the matter in the agenda, and this referred to matters such as the scrapping of the special status of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir and alleged human rights abuses in the region.“We strongly and categorically reject the factually incorrect, gratuitous and unwarranted references to India in resolutions adopted by the Organisation of Islamic Conference (OIC) at the 47th CFM session in Niamey, Republic of Niger, held on November 27-28, 2020,” the external affairs ministry said in a statement.“We have always maintained that OIC has no locus standi in matters strictly internal to India, including that of union territory of Jammu and Kashmir, which is an integral and inalienable part of India,” the statement said.Also read: Search teams locate debris of Navy’s MiG-29K, pilot still missing“It is regrettable that OIC continues to allow itself to be used by a certain country, which has an abominable record on religious tolerance, radicalism and persecution of minorities, to indulge in anti-India propaganda. We strongly advise the OIC to refrain from making such references in future,” the statement added, in a reference to Pakistan.The Niamey Declaration issued at the conclusion of the OIC meeting also included a reference to the Kashmir issue that people familiar with developments said was included due to the insistence of Pakistan. The declaration reiterated “OIC’s principled position on the Jammu and Kashmir dispute for a peaceful settlement in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions”.The people cited above said New Delhi wasn’t surprised that the OIC documents contained customary references to Jammu and Kashmir but made it clear it was significant that the Kashmir issue wasn’t discussed as a separate agenda item at the meeting of the council of foreign ministers despite the pressure mounted by Pakistan.These developments come at a time when Pakistan’s relations with Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates (UAE), both key players in the 56-member OIC, are strained.Saudi Arabia has sought the early repayment of a $3-billion loan provided to the Imran Khan government in 2018 after it was irked by Islamabad’s efforts to forge a new grouping of Islamic countries along with Turkey and Malaysia. The UAE last week temporarily suspended issuing visas to citizens of Pakistan over security concerns. Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi raised this matter with his UAE counterpart during the OIC meet in Niger but didn’t get any positive response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unwarranted-india-rejects-pak-sponsored-references-to-kashmir-issue-in-oic-resolutions/story-TcArQ0JAYhylk8G6WpUk5N.html
29-11-2020||India||EAM Jaishankar calls on UAE’s PM, discusses post-Covid economic cooperation||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar called on UAE’s Prime Minister Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum on Sunday and discussed with him the prospects for economic cooperation between India and the Gulf country in the post-Covid-19 era. Jaishankar thanked Sheikh Mohammed for taking care of the Indian community and underlined that India had been a reliable partner to the UAE in all respects during this difficult period. “Called on HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, VP & PM of UAE and the Ruler of Dubai. Handed over a personal communication from Prime Minister @narendramodi. Thanked him for taking care of the Indian community,” Jiashankar tweeted. “Underlined that India had been a reliable partner in all respects during this difficult period. Discussed prospects for our economic cooperation in the post-Covid era,” he said in another tweet. The External Affairs Minister visited the India pavilion at Expo 2020 site and reviewed the progress of the pavilion which promises to showcase India’s strength in innovation and technology in addition to arts and culture. He also addressed the Indian community of Dubai and Northern Emirates through a virtual meet on November 29 and expressed his appreciation to the community for the support to fellow Indians during the pandemic, the Indian Consulate in Dubai said in a tweet. Earlier, Jaishankar visited Abu Dhabi on Wednesday night on the second leg of his six-day three-nation visit to Bahrain, the United Arab Emirates and Seychelles, which began on Tuesday. He left for Seychelles on November 27 from the UAE. During his two-day visit to Abu Dhabi on November 25-26, he called on Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan and held talks with his UAE counterpart Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan. He also virtually met the representatives of the Indian community associations in Abu Dhabi. According to the website of the Indian Embassy in Abu Dhabi, the Indian expatriate community of approximately 30.4 lakh is reportedly the largest ethnic community in the UAE, constituting roughly about 30 per cent of the country’s population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eam-jaishankar-calls-on-uae-s-prime-minister-discusses-post-c-economic-cooperation/story-rQ6qOiyZrr0nGOmaxLUGlN.html
29-11-2020||India||As Covid-19 surges, Uttarakhand limits wedding guests to 100||With Covid-19 cases continuing to surge in the state, the Uttarakhand government on Sunday issued new orders slashing the number of guests allowed in weddings to 100 from 200.Laying down guidelines for surveillance in containment zones, the government in an order said that only essential activities will be allowed in containment zone, with strict perimeter control to ensure that there is no movement of people except for medical emergencies.“Testing shall be carried out as per prescribed protocol. Listing of contacts shall be carried out in respect of all persons found positive, along with their tracking, identification, quarantine and follow up of contacts for 14 days,” it said.It also said that 80% of contacts would be traced in 72 hours. Outside containment zones, places like cinema halls and theatres will function at 50% capacity, swimming pools will be used only for training of sportspersons and exhibition halls will be used only for business-to-business purposes.“Social/religious/sports/entertainment/educational/cultural/religious gatherings, with up to a maximum of 50% of the hall capacity, with a ceiling of 100 persons in closed spaces: and keeping of the size of the ground/space in view, in open spaces,” it said.District administrations have been allowed to impose local restrictions like night curfew depending on the pandemic situation in their particular areas. However, local lockdown outside containment zones cannot be imposed without prior consultation with the state government.All district administrations have been asked to ensure Covid-19 appropriate behavior, like compulsory wearing of masks, maintaining social distance, sanitization.Uttarakhand on Sunday reported 389 fresh Covid-19 cases to take the tally to 74,340. Eight more casualties took the death toll in the pandemic to 1,222. Out of tally of 74,340, a total of 67,475 have recovered successfully, taking the recovery rate in the state to 90.77%. The positivity rate in the state now stands at 5.6%. On Sunday, 278 people recovered from the disease and were discharged from hospitals in different districts of the state with maximum, 205 from Dehradun district. According to the health bulletin issued on Sunday, maximum of 146 cases were reported from Dehradun district. With two positive cases, Bageshwar district reported the least number of cases on Sunday. Dehradun district has so far reported the maximum 21,188 Cocid-19 cases followed by Haridwar (12,064), US Nagar (10,278) and Nainital (8,482). The state health department has so far tested 13.27 lakh people of which results of over 13,800 are pending.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-covid-19-surges-uttarakhand-limits-wedding-guests-to-100/story-dbLKoZquFZr9irJQSYqEpJ.html
29-11-2020||India||Farmers’ protests: Union ministers Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh, Narendra Singh Tomar meet at BJP chief Nadda’s residence||Defence minister Rajnath Singh, home minister Amit Shah and agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Sunday held a meeting at BJP chief Jagat Prakash Nadda’s residence to discuss the ongoing farmers’ protests at the Delhi-Haryana border. Home minister Amit Shah who was on a visit to Hyderabad to boost BJP’s chances ahead of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Polls returned to Delhi on Sunday evening. He had earlier on Saturday requested protesting farmers to withdraw their protests and hold talks with the Centre regarding their grievances. Farmers have rejected the governments offer and said that they will only speak to the government if there are no pre-conditions. The government on Saturday told the agitating farmers that they will hold discussions if they move their protest to a DDA ground in Burari. Farmers group rejected the proposal highlighting that the home ministry should not hold discussions regarding agricultural issues. All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee leader Darshan Pal told HT that the home ministry has no role to play in the talks regarding the issues faced by farmers. He said, “We have rejected the offer for talks with the home ministry. The home ministry has nothing to do with farmers or agriculture.”Bharatiya Kisan Union Krantikari-wing’s president Surjeet S Phul also told ANI that they will continue to block the five entry points to the capital city and termed the protest site earmarked by the Centre as an ‘open-air’ prison. Phul said, “Instead of going to open jail in Burari, we’ve decided that we will gherao Delhi by blocking five main entry points to Delhi. We’ve 4 months ration with us, so nothing to worry about.”The agitation began on November 25 when farmer groups began their Delhi Chalo march demanding that the government repeals the three farm bills - the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill; the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill - passed during the monsoon session in the Parliament. Farmer groups broke through barricades at Sambhu and Karnal at the Punjab-Haryana border on Thursday after Haryana police denied them entry. Following clashes between Haryana Police and protesters tear gas shells were lobbed and water cannons were sprayed at the protesters. Farmers believe that these three laws will allow private players to gain profits from the agricultural sector and will adversely impact the procurement of foodgrains under the minimum support price system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protests-union-ministers-amit-shah-rajnath-singh-narendra-singh-tomar-meet-at-bjp-chief-nadda-s-residence/story-VnHQ02TWBDLm3D9ZAuIOwI.html
29-11-2020||India||‘Listen to annadata, reconsider farm laws’, Ashok Gehlot tells PM Modi||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday demanded the central government to reconsider the three farm laws that have sparked a furore among the country’s farmers. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he stated that even when the GDP growth rate has been -7.5% in the second quarter of the current fiscal, the agriculture sector has grown 3.4%. “In these difficult times, the Annadata (providers) are making positive contributions to the economy and they should not be given such a reward,” he said. Gehlot demanded that Modi reconsider these laws to protect the interests of farmers and democratic values. “On 26 November, when the country was celebrating Constitution Day, the farmers were hit with sticks and water cannons. To prevent farmers from reaching Delhi to highlight their demands, roads were dug and barriers were set up. The central government tried to take away the right to protest of the farmers which is not justified,” said Gehlot. He went on to say, “The farmers have irrigated the land of the country with their blood and sweat. The central government should immediately resolve their problems by listening to their demands.”The CM said the three bills were brought by the central government without any discussion with farmers and experts. The government also ignored the demand by opposition parties in Parliament to send these bills to the select committee. These laws do not mention the minimum support price, which has led to distrust among farmers. Gehlot said that if these laws are implemented, the farmers will become dependent on private players. Also, with the formation of private mandis, the existence of long-standing agricultural mandis will also end. Due to this, farmers will not get the right price for their produce. Gehlot also informed the PM of the amendments made by the state in the three laws to protect the interest of farmers in Rajasthan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/listen-to-annadata-reconsider-farm-laws-ashok-gehlot-tells-pm-modi/story-1jjRL807EVbZnHPQPI92lJ.html
29-11-2020||India||Farmer groups say no political parties will be allowed to speak at protests, term Burari site as ‘open jail’||Bharatiya Kisan Union Krantikari-wing’s president Surjeet S Phul on Sunday said that no political party will be allowed to speak at the protest site on behalf or for the farmers. The farmers also said that they will not move to the designated protest site at Burari and termed the ground an open-air prison.Phul, while speaking to ANI, said, “We’ve decided that we won’t allow any political party leader to speak on our stage, be it Congress, BJP, AAP or other parties. Our Committee will allow other organisations, who are supporting us, to speak if they follow our rules.”Phul reiterated the demands of the farmer bodies and said that talks with Centre will be held unconditionally and said that farmer groups protesting at Singhu border will not move to the DDA ground in north Delhi’s Burari which has been earmarked for the protests by the Centre.Watch | Farmers reject Amit Shah’s proposal for early talks, set new demands Terming the protest site an open jail, he said, “Instead of going to open jail in Burari, we’ve decided that we will gherao Delhi by blocking five main entry points to Delhi. We’ve 4 months ration with us, so nothing to worry about. Our Operations Committee will decide everything.”The agitation staged by more than 30 farmer bodies has entered its fourth day. The farmers began their Delhi Chalo march on Thursday night. The protesters clashed with the police across several border checkpoints in the Punjab-Haryana border. Police on Thursday also fired tear gas shells and sprayed gusts of water at the protesting farmers using water cannons.The farmers have also rejected the Centre’s proposal to speak to the Home ministry. They have demanded that the Union government set up a high-profile cabinet committee to address the grievances of the farmers. Home minister Amit Shah who on Sunday said that he does not consider the protests to be political had invited farmers to discuss issues concerning the three farm bills passed in Parliament during the monsoon session.Farmers are demanding a rollback of the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill; the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill. Farmers fear that these bills will help large corporations to earn more profits and affect the procurement of farm yields under the minimum support price system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmer-groups-say-no-political-parties-will-be-allowed-to-speak-at-protests-term-burari-site-as-open-jail/story-vCqqiK0Hr9mj504OoZxQoN.html
29-11-2020||India||Search teams locate debris of Navy’s MiG-29K in Arabian Sea, pilot still missing||Search and rescue teams of the Indian Navy on Sunday located some debris of the MiG-29K trainer aircraft that crashed into the Arabian Sea three days ago even as efforts to locate the missing pilot continued, officials said on Sunday.The debris located includes the landing gear, turbo charger and some other parts of the aircraft, they said.Multiple naval aircraft and warships have been deployed off the country’s west coast to locate the missing pilot“In addition to nine warships and 14 aircraft engaged in the search efforts, Indian Navy’s fast interceptor craft are also deployed to search waters along the coast. Further, the marine/coastal police are on the lookout and nearby fishing villages have been sensitised,” a Navy spokesperson said. The Russian-origin twin-seat trainer jet went down on Thursday after taking off from India’s only aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya. While rescue teams were able to recover one of the pilots on Thursday, the second pilot - Commander Nishant Singh - is still missing.Thursday’s crash was the fourth accident involving the MiG-29K maritime fighter fleet.While the cause of the crash is not known yet, India’s top auditor had in 2016 found deficiencies in the deck-based fighter. These included engine trouble, airframe problems and shortcomings in its fly-by-wire system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/search-teams-locate-debris-of-navy-s-mig-29k-in-arabian-sea-pilot-still-missing/story-f2OrlkaCBA1Ti6ZohCqsVN.html
29-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9pm: TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee attacks PM Modi, BJP over border row with China and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Abhishek Banerjee takes on PM Modi and BJP on national security, personal remarksThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) used the Pulwama terror attack as an election issue to retain power in 2019 but has done nothing to free the territory China captured in Ladakh six months ago, Lok Sabha member and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee alleged at a huge public rally at his constituency, Diamond Harbour, on Sunday afternoon. Read morePM Modi to interact with three Covid-19 vaccine development teamsPrime minister Narendra Modi will interact with three teams involved in developing a vaccine to prevent the coronavirus on Monday. The prime minister’s office in a tweet said that the PM will speak to teams from Gennova Biopharma, Biological E and Dr. Reddy’s. Read moreFarmers’ protest: ‘Don’t see use of tear gas, water cannon as force,’ says ML Khattar, backs Haryana PoliceAmid severe criticism of how Haryana Police used ‘force’ on farmers as they were marching towards Delhi protesting against three recently passed farm laws, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday said he doesn’t consider using tear gas and water cannon as using force. Read more‘I just asked him’: Virat Kohli and Aaron Finch say Hardik Pandya showed how to bowl on SCG wicketIt was a difficult day for the bowlers in the second One Day International between India and Australia on Friday. It was a field day for bowlers from both the sides as they took a pounding on a batting pitch at the Sydney Cricket Ground. The second ODI saw the most run scored in an ODI in Australia as 727 runs were hit on Friday. Read moreAashiqui star Rahul Roy suffers brain stroke while shooting in Kargil, moved to ICU in MumbaiAashiqui star Rahul Roy has reportedly suffered a brain stoke while shooting for a film in Kargil. The actor has been admitted to the Nanavati hospital in Mumbai. Rahul was shooting for his film LAC - Live the Battle. He suffered the brain stroke due to extreme weather condition in Kargil. His brother Romeer Sen confirmed the news and said that the actor is recovering. Read moreMysterious metal monolith found in remote Utah desert area has disappearedThe Utah Department of Public Safety and Division of Wildlife Resources came across a shiny metal monolith on November 18. The mysterious monolith had taken the Internet by storm as there is no official information available regarding who put it in the state’s red-rock desert. Now, the three-sided stainless-steel object, which is estimated to be about as tall as two men put together, has disappeared as bizarrely as it had initially appeared. Read more‘Never called farmers’ protest politically motivated’: Amit Shah; Cong slamsA day after assuring agitating farmers that the central government was ready to hold talks on their “every problem and demand,” Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday said he never called the farmers’ protest politically motivated and neither was he calling it now. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9pm-tmc-mp-abhishek-banerjee-attacks-pm-modi-bjp-over-border-row-with-china-and-all-the-latest-news/story-LcMQaO0K3JAxJYSgWqUS4N.html
29-11-2020||India||Wife of scribe in UP who died of burns threatens to immolate self, demands arrest of killers||The wife of a local Hindi daily journalist, Rakesh Singh (45), in Balrampur who died in a mysterious fire on Friday, has threatened to immolate herself in front of the district magistrate’s office if the alleged killers were not arrested by Tuesday.The Uttar Pradesh police are yet to arrive at any conclusion in the case.Vibha Singh, the journalist’s wife had alleged criminal conspiracy behind the incident and said that her husband and his friend Pintu Sahu, 36, were burnt to death by some local muscleman. The journalist and his friend had died when a mysterious fire broke out in his village house under Kotwali Dehat police area in Balrampur district on Friday night. Sahu had died on the spot while Singh succumbed to his injuries in a Lucknow hospital after suffering 90% burn injuries.The wife of the deceased, along with her two daughters, family members and local residents staged a protest and refused to cremate the body on Sunday until her husband’s alleged killers were arrested. She gave the deadline of 48 hours to the police and the district administration after which she said she would immolate herself. She finally agreed to cremate the body after an assurance by local MLA Paltu Ram.A local police official said journalist’s father Munna Singh had earlier lodged a complaint against 4-5 unidentified people for allegedly setting his son and his friend ablaze after locking them inside the house. “Seconds before his death, the journalist had said that he was targeted as he was working on some big news. He, however, did not mention any person behind the incident,” he added.The official said the police had interrogated five people in the matter but had failed to reach any conclusion so far.Balrampur superintendent of police (SP) Dev Ranjan Verma did not respond to calls. Earlier on Saturday, he had told media persons that the door of the house was found locked from outside, which has raised a suspicion. He said three suspects of the same village, including former village pradhan Ram Surat, Ravi Chauhan and Babu Mishra, were detained for questioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wife-of-scribe-in-up-who-died-of-burns-threatens-to-immolate-self-demands-arrest-of-killers/story-pBzY5nLBBSyLntVv9McNFI.html
29-11-2020||India||Assistant commandant killed in IED blast in Chhattisgarh’s Sukma||An Assistant Commandant of Central Reserve Police Force’s (CRPF) CoBRA (Commando Battalion for Resolute Action) was killed and eight others were injured in an IED blast triggered by Maoists in Talmetala area of Chhattisgarh’s Sukma district on Saturday night. Inspector-General of Police (IG) Bastar, Sunderaj P, told Hindustan Times that a team of 206 CoBRA, along with a team of district police, was out for anti-naxal operation on Saturday night when nine personnel, including two senior officials, were injured in an IED blast planted by the Maoists. The IG said that the incident took place near Arabraj Metta hills, which is nine kilometres Northwest of Chitagufa police station and six kilometres west of Burkapal base camp. “All nine injured were airlifted to Raipur at around 12.45 am and were admitted in a hospital. On Sunday morning, an Assistant Commandant, Nitin Bhalerao, who sustained serious injured died in the hospital,” said the IG. Also read: Farmers’ protest - Amarinder Singh questions Khattar’s Covid-19 concernsAnother officer, second in command Dinesh Kumar Singh, and other CoBRA personnel are admitted in hospital. Assistant Commandant Bhalerao, who succumbed to his injuries and breathed his last at 3:30 am on Sunday in Raipur, was a native of Nasik in Maharashtra. Meanwhile, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has condemned the incident and paid tributes to the Bhalerao. The CM attended the wreath-laying ceremony along with senior officers of CRPF and state police. “The condition of eight others admitted in a hospital is said to be stable,” added IG Bastar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assistant-commandant-killed-in-ied-blast-in-chhattisgarh-s-sukma/story-pfCQJ0KVgLUSFYUT7JhknI.html
29-11-2020||India||Dogs roam freely, tug at unattended dead body in Uttar Pradesh hospital||A stray dog tugged at an unattended body on a stretcher at the District Hospital in Sambhal, Uttar Pradesh, according to officials on Sunday. The incident took place on November 26.The father of the person who had died witnessed the incident and said, “The body was left unattended for 1.5 hrs. It’s the negligence of the hospital.”The hospital authorities have suspended two ward boys.One of the suspended ward boys said, “I got a job in this hospital during COVID-19. I was not supposed to be on duty at that time. The authorities have suspended me. I will question the authorities.”Dr Sunil Verma of the district hospital said, “Some board members of the hospital have also been suspended. We are looking into the matter closely. An investigation committee has been formed to find out details of the issue.”“It is true that dogs enter the hospital premises frequently,” he added. Dogs were seen entering the hospital premises and creating a menace in the hospital. Many people who were visiting the hospital felt uncomfortable in the presence of dogs in the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dogs-roam-freely-tug-at-unattended-dead-body-in-uttar-pradesh-hospital/story-N9OrvoFBQCjf2xsfr1xdtN.html
29-11-2020||India||Mahakumbh 2021 prep is changing face of Haridwar, here’s how||Mahakumbh melas, the biggest religious congregations on the planet, help people seek spiritual upliftment. The preparation of the Mahakumbh 2021 in Haridwar is in full swing and is also changing the face of the sacred city. The upcoming Mahakumbh, scheduled from January till April 2021, is being keenly awaited by pilgrims, seers and people, given it is being held after twelve years. It is also ushering in development, infrastructural projects, amenities and facilities both on a permanent and temporary basis. Almost 70-85 per cent specific Kumbh budget allocated by the Central government is spent on permanent nature works like construction of bridges, Ganga ghats, roads, flyovers, expansion of Kumbh mela zone area and so on. While temporary works include setting up of temporary mela base camp at Bairagi Camp, restricted Kumbh land for seers, Akhadas, religious organisation pontiffs and also for Kumbh mela administration personnel, particularly for Kumbh Force comprising Uttarakhand police and central para-military forces personnel. How Kumbh prep is changing the face of Haridwar Digging work across the city for laying piped natural gas pipeline, underground electricity cable, sewer lines, broadening of national highway-58, construction of bridges over Ganga, flyovers, underpasses, railway line broadening is going on at present. Authorities says all works will be completed by December end. Every six years, Haridwar gets a facelift due to Mahakumbh and Ardh Kumbh fairs which are being held for centuries. During the previous Ardh Kumbh in 2016, a budget of Rs 258 crores was earmarked for various development works. Prominent among them was the construction of four new bridges at Har-Ki-Pauri, Chintamani Ashram, Laltarau and Jwalapur, providing easier connectivity of the city to both sides of the Ganga canal. Also read: ‘A man is not great by his caste, but by his talent’ - Nitin GadkariSewer connectivity has strengthened and this time it is being taken up across municipal corporation wards and suburban Jwalapur to saint dominated clusters of Bhoopatwala-Khadkhadi-Neel Dhara-Saptsarovar where temples, ashrams, maths and dharamshalas are in abundance. Haridwar, during Mahakumbh, will be the first city in Uttarakhand to be free of hanging electric wires and poles as the underground power cable project is also in its last phase. Also, over a thousand odd households have been connected with piped natural gas (PNG) making LPG cylinders a thing of the past for them. Gas Authority of India Limited (GAIL) has been carrying out the project in Haridwar city and its expected to get completed in the coming months. 2010 vs 2021 Initial assistance of Rs 365 crores from the Central government for Mahakumbh fair led to the start of multiple construction related works with major focus on permanent nature works. During 2010 Mahakumbh, 3,310 metre of new Ganga ghats were constructed while this time five new Ganga ghats are being developed. Similarly, one single major steel girder span bridge was built in 2010 Mahakumbh near British era Damkoti guesthouse on Mayapur regulator for Rs 4.34 crore. This time, three major bridges are being built on the Ganga river and canal. New Dhanauri bridge, for Rs 6.8 crores, will replace more than 150-year-old British era bridge which is in dilapidated condition and provides easier access and exit to Haridwar city from Bhagwanpur-Kaliyar-Roorkee side. The 2010 Kumbh also saw the construction of a two-storey parking lot opposite to Har-Ki-Pauri with a capacity of 800 vehicles. At Jagjeetpur village near Matri Sadan ashram, a new bridge is being constructed at a cost of Rs 5.52 crore, providing connectivity to Bairagi Kumbh camp area with Kankhal. Within a kilometre, the third bridge is being built at Dakshdeep-Bairagi camp stretch on Ganga canal by Public Work Department (PWD). Also read: PM Modi to interact with three Covid-19 vaccine development teamsTemporary nature works - like setting up of tents for akhadas, seers and in particular for mela force, state police and personnel of paramilitary forces - will begin by next month. Also, in a first, this Mahakumbh will witness temples, ashrams, dharamshalas, hotels in Haridwar coloured in saffron and yellow colors. “Single colour code will give a unique and spiritual aura to Har-Ki-Pauri and core mela zone in Haridwar in sync with the religious aura of the pilgrim city during Mahakumbh,” said additional district magistrate Kumbh mela Harbeer Singh. Covid dampener When Kumbh mela related works commenced a year ago, it was expected the budget would cross the previous Rs 655 crore sanctioned for 2010 Mahakumbh. But with the Covid-19 pandemic, both the budget and spread of multiple infrastructure-related works were affected. While before the Covid-19 epidemic, over 12 crore pilgrims and tourists were expected to participate in the Mahakumbh, now the state government will take final a decision on the number of pilgrims for the first Shahi Snaan (royal bath) on Maha Shivratri in February, which drew nearly four to five million devotees in 2010. In all, 8.5 crore pilgrims had arrived in 2010 Mahakumbh in Haridwar. The apex body of akhadas, the Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad has also agreed for a restrictive or mild Mahakumbh fair if the epidemic continues till February. “We want preparations to be done at a grand scale but simultaneously we have apprised the Uttarakhand government and Kumbh mela administration that, if need be, only two or five seers from each of thirteen akhadas will take the sacred Ganga dip during three Shahi Snaan in Mahakumbh. But we are hopeful, Covid containment will be done and the fair will be open for all,” said Akhada Parishad general secretary Mahant Hari Giri Maharaj. Should Kumbh be “restrictive”? With permanent nature works in the last phase, mela officials, saints, akhada office-bearers, local priests are discussing whether Mahakumbh 2021 will be grander affair than 2010 or due to Covid-19 restrictions, it will be curtailed to a normal event. Urban development cabinet Minister Madan Kaushik, who is Haridwar city legislator, pointed that the state government will take a final call on Kumbh mela guidelines in February-March taking into consideration Covid-19 spread, containment in Uttarakhand and other states, as well as standard operating guidelines for mass religious events of Central government. “As of now, mela administration is carrying out works keeping in mind a full-fledged Kumbh fair and there is some time before three Shahi Snaan near when actual picture will get clearer,” said Madan Kaushik, who was in-charge cabinet minister in 2010 Mahakumbh. “Currently, we are focusing on completing the Kumbh preparations that are of a permanent nature. Without proper infrastructure, the fair can’t be held properly. We have to utilise the Kumbh budget being allocated by the government to the fullest. Later, after assessing the situation and government guidelines, we’ll formulate ways to hold the event in a manner that is safe for pilgrims and visitors,” said Lalit Narayan Mishra, additional district magistrate, Kumbh mela.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mahakumbh-2021-prep-is-changing-face-of-haridwar-here-s-how/story-tFYYkepLNsslF3uga65ZiL.html
29-11-2020||India||Serum Institute rejects charges levelled by vaccine trial participant, threatens to seek damages||Vaccine major Serum Institute of India on Sunday rejected charges that AstraZeneca-Oxford’s Covid-19 vaccine candidate has serious side effects and said it will seek damages in excess of Rs 100 crore for “malicious” allegations.A 40-year-old Chennai-based business consultant, who was a volunteer for the third phase of the vaccine trial conducted by Serum Institute of India (SII), has alleged serious side effects, including a virtual neurological breakdown and impairment of cognitive functions and has sought Rs 5 crore compensation in a legal notice to SII and others, besides seeking a halt to the trial.He was administered the shot at Chennai’s Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research (SRIHER), one of the trial sites.“The allegations in the notice are malicious and misconceived. While the Serum Institute of India is sympathetic with the volunteer’s medical condition, there is absolutely no correlation with the vaccine trial and the medical condition of the volunteer,” Serum Institute of India said in a statement.The volunteer is falsely laying the blame for his medical problems on the Covid vaccine trial, it added.“The claim is malicious because the volunteer was specifically informed by the medical team that the complications he suffered were independent of the vaccine trial he underwent. In-spite of specifically being made aware of the same, he still chose to go public and malign the reputation of the company,” Serum Institute said.It is evident that the intention behind the spreading of such malicious information is an oblique pecuniary motive, it added. “The Serum Institute of India, will seek damages in excess of (Rs) 100 crore for the same and will defend such malicious claims,” the statement said.The Drugs Controller General of India and the institutional ethics committee at the implementation site are investigating if the adverse event as claimed to have been suffered by an Oxford Covid-19 vaccine trial participant in Chennai are related to the shot administered to him.A law firm on his behalf has sent a legal notice to Director General, ICMR, Drugs Controller General of India, Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation, CEO AstraZeneca UK, CEO Serum Institute of India, Professor Andrew Pollard, Chief Investigator, Oxford Vaccine Trial and Vice Chancellor of Sri Ramachandra Higher Education and Research.Dr Samiran Panda, who heads the Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases (ECD) division of the ICMR, said the causal link, if any, of the serious adverse events with the investigational product is objectively assessed in any clinical trial following a pre-defined scientific pathway and within a stipulated period.“Any hurried inquiry or inference is prone to be wrong. Both the institutional ethics committee and the DCGI are investigating the causal links, if any, between the adverse events and investigational product, which is an anti-coronavirus vaccine,” Panda said.The notice given on November 21 by the law firm said, “Our client states that he must be compensated, in the least, for all the sufferings that he and his family have undergone and are likely to undergo in future.””He further states that he is still far from being all right and has to be under medical care for a long time to come. Therefore, for all the trauma he is undergoing and with an uncertain future in his health, he should be given a financial compensation of Rs. 5 crores within two weeks from the receipt of this notice,” it added. The notice also said that testing, manufacturing and the distribution of the vaccine should also be stopped immediately, “failing which he has no other option except to take appropriate legal action against all the concerned parties, who would be made responsible for all the costs and consequences”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/serum-institute-rejects-charges-levelled-by-vaccine-trial-participant-threatens-to-seek-damages/story-7aV533hxU4e8eD7LYRQ3eO.html
29-11-2020||India||Drugs worth Rs 35 lakh seized in Goa; 3 arrested||Three persons were arrested after drugs worth nearly Rs 35 lakh were seized in simultaneous raids on Saturday night, including one at the famous Arambol banyan tree - a hermitage-like hideaway that is a haven for tourists seeking a spiritual experience that sometimes involves smoking marijuana.The overnight raids were all conducted in Arambol village in North Goa that is a big draw among tourists.In the raid at the Arambol banyan tree, Chandan, 35, a native of Barmer in Rajasthan, was found in illegal possession of 2.390 Kg of charas worth Rs 11.95-lakh.In another raid between 5.20 and 10:50 pm on Saturday evening at a rented room also at Arambol, one Chhatra Singh alias Shiva, 36, a native of Haldwani in Uttarakhand, was arrested with 2.100 kg of charas totalling Rs10.50-lakh, while Raju Lama, 35, a native of Manali in Himachal Pradesh was arrested with 2.500 kg of charas worth Rs 12.50-lakh.“These raids were conducted after tracking the peddlers for quite some days,” Superintendent of Police Mahesh Gaonkar said.The Goa police say it has seized narcotics worth Rs 6.8 crore this year compared to the Rs 5.5 crore last year.“We have given instructions to reach the source, we have reached the source in some cases. Our focus is on the source,” Goa’s Director General of Police Mukesh Kumar Meena, while speaking late last week, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drugs-worth-rs-35-lakh-seized-in-goa-3-arrested/story-4nZ7sGTIroYlSuHnyFGebK.html
29-11-2020||India||Hours after Nitish Kumar reviews law and order, robbers kill woman in Patna||Hours after Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar reviewed the law and order situation in the state at a high-level meeting and directed the police to contain crime on Saturday, unidentified criminals shot dead a woman during a robbery post midnight.The CM had instructed to intensify police patrolling during night to curb crime.The 40-year-old woman was killed while resisting a robbery bid near Patna’s Chiraiyatand bridge.The incident took place around 1.30 am when Imran Alam, an employee of a private bank posted at Siwan, and his wife Shahika Pravin reached Patna from Siwan by a bus. The duo had to catch a train for Dehri-on-Sone at Patna Junction but they missed it.Imran told the police as they missed the train, they left the railway station and went to search for a hotel to spend the night. “When we were unable to find a room, we hired an auto-rickshaw to return to Patna Junction railway station. As the auto-rickshaw reached near Chiraiyatand bridge, unidentified criminals suddenly waylaid us and demanded cash at gunpoint. We handed over all cash and valuables but one of the criminals shot my wife in the eye when she tried to protest,” Imran said.A police team which rushed to the spot sent the woman’s body to the Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) for autopsy. Station House Officer (SHO) of Jannakpur police station, Mukesh Verma, said following the statement of deceased’s husband, a case has been registered. Police are investigating the matter and the accused would be arrested soon, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hours-after-nitish-kumar-reviews-law-and-order-robbers-kill-woman-in-patna/story-PKIfCreD4KiL8ISJbHFIIL.html
29-11-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: ‘Why did you try to stop them in Haryana,’ Amarinder Singh questions Khattar’s Covid-19 concerns||The fiery exchange between Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and his Haryana counterpart ML Khattar went a notch higher on Sunday after Khattar claimed that he didn’t allow the farmers’ protest in his state in the view of the Covid-19 pandemic situation. He also questioned why Amarinder Singh allowed such a congregation in his state amid the ongoing pandemic. “If he was so concerned about farmers spreading Covid-19 in Haryana whose track record in the pandemic remains extremely poor, he should not have stopped them within the state, but should have allowed them to move quickly to Delhi,” Singh said.Also Read: ‘Don’t see use of tear gas, water cannon as force,’says ML Khattar, backs Haryana PoliceThe verbal fight between the two neighbouring states began after Amarinder Singh denounced Haryana’s action of using “force” on farmers, which Khattar defended and said using water cannon and tear gas, according to him, was not using “force”. “A man who can disown his own farmers and even go so far as to call them Khalistanis instead of standing by them in this hour of crisis clearly has no moral scruples about spreading lies,” the Punjab CM said after Khattar claimed that he wanted to talk to Amarinder on farmers’ issues but the Punjab chief minister was not available.The farmers’ organisations, a majority of which have entered Delhi by Saturday, have refused to hold protest in Burari ground which they have termed as “an open jail”. “Instead of going to open jail in Burari, we’ve decided that we will gherao Delhi by blocking five main entry points to Delhi. We’ve got four months ration with us, so nothing to worry. Our Operations Committee will decide everything,” Bharatiya Kisan Union Krantikari (Punjab) president Surjeet S Phul told ANI.Meanwhile, all Khaps of Haryana on Sunday decided to support the protesting farmers. “Khaps will gather tomorrow and proceed towards Delhi. We request the Centre to re-consider the farm laws. Everyone has a right to express themselves,” Sombir Sangwan, Haryana Khap Pradhan and Dadri MLA said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-why-did-you-try-to-stop-them-in-haryana-amarinder-singh-questions-khattar-s-covid-19-concerns/story-JZJxJu1DcgsxGTDPYQ54MI.html
29-11-2020||India||Chambal river’s gharials migrate to Kuno as sand mining disturbs habitat||Rampant illegal sand mining in the Chambal river that has allegedly disturbed the habitat of gharials is suspected to be the reason that forced a female gharial to travel 15 km to lay eggs on the banks of Kuno river, a forest official said Sunday. The Kuno is a tributary of the Chambal.The radio-collared gharial chose the banks of the Kuno river for nesting this year, recording the state’s first case of the crocodile species migrating to Kuno river. In 2017, another radio-collared gharial was found nesting in Parbati river, another tributary of the Chambal. In 2017, the scientists associated with Madras Crocodile Bank Trust and Centre for Herpetology (MCBTCH) fitted radio collars in some gharials under telemetry research to know about their movements and lifestyle.MCBTCH scientist Zailabdeen Sheikh said, “During telemetry research, we have found that a female gharial went to Kuno but didn’t return. When we traced it, a nest and the gharial were found in Kuno for the first time. This suggests that gharials are looking for a safer habitat. They have found one in Kuno.”According to the forest department data the gharial population in Chambal river had fallen to 1,255 in 2017 from close to 1,800 in 2015. For the 2019 census, the department decided to include Parbati river also, and therefore, the number of gharials in Chambal river basin increased to 1,681. Although the exact reason for migration is yet to be ascertained, experts said a number of factors including illegal sand mining is responsible for the migration. The illegal mining disturbs the gharials’ nesting sites, said the scientist.A forest officer who did not wish to be named, said the migration is happening due to rampant illegal sand mining in the area. “The colonies and pools of gharials are being destroyed by the illegal sand mining mafia. The gharials are not finding sandbanks to lay eggs as illegal sand miners have installed heavy machines on the banks to excavate sand from the river. Gharials are not finding safe habitat and that’s why they are moving up towards Kuno and Parbati,” he said. A retired scientist of Deori Eco Center in Morena and Chambal sanctuary, RK Sharma warned that illegal sand mining was damaging the environment.“This is good that gharials are finding safe habitat for nesting but at the same time it is a cause of concern for Chambal river. The authorities should understand that illegal sand mining is causing loss to the environment and also affecting the quality of water. If it continues, it will disturb the ecological balance.” According to South Asia SANDRP, Madhya Pradeshw had emerged at third place in illegal sand mining activities with 16,405 cases in 2018-19. Most of the cases were from Chambal and Narmada river basins. Locals are also not happy with the migration of gharials as they feel that it will affect the footfall of tourists. A resident of Tikri Rithora village of Morena district, Virendra Singh said, “In our village, a sighting of 20-25 gharials on the banks of Chambal was common till a few years back. It used to attract local and foreign tourists and researchers but now it is hard to even see 2-3 gharials on the banks.” According to Deori Gharial Eco Park chief scientist Jyoti Dandotiya said at least 50-80 tourists visit Chambal sanctuary and park daily to see gharials in the winter season and the numbers falls to 30 per day in the summer. Morena, divisional forest officer (DFO), Amit Basant Nikam said, “There are multiple factors behind the migration of gharials to Kuno and Parvati rivers and I can’t deny that illegal sand mining is one of the major reasons.” “We are taking multiple steps to curb illegal sand mining. Forest officials do patrol in the sensitive area and also registered cases. But now we have sent a proposal of legalized sand mining in some area of Chambal river, which is not ecologically sensitive,” said Nikam. Additional principal chief conservator of forest (APCCF) (wildlife) JS Chauhan said, “There is a problem of sand mining in Chambal river but it doesn’t mean that gharials are migrating from the river for this reason only. The shifting of gharials in Kuno river which happened recently and Parbati River is a result of the expansion of safe habitat and increase in population.” “Now, the MP forest department is also going to develop it as a safe habitat and will release as many as 25 adult gharials - 20 female and five males for breeding in Kuno, ‘’ said Chauhan. (With inputs from Shivpratap Singh Jadon)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chambal-river-s-gharials-migrate-to-kuno-as-sand-mining-disturbs-habitat/story-dnjvmN6DnAzggKRXNFQISL.html
29-11-2020||India||PM Modi to interact with three Covid-19 vaccine development teams||Prime minister Narendra Modi will interact with three teams involved in developing a vaccine to prevent the coronavirus on Monday. The prime minister’s office in a tweet said that the PM will speak to teams from Gennova Biopharma, Biological E and Dr. Reddy’s. The prime minister’s office said, “Tomorrow, on 30th November 2020, PM @narendramodi will interact, via video conferencing, with three teams that are involved in developing a COVID-19 vaccine. The teams he will interact with are from Gennova Biopharma, Biological E and Dr. Reddy’s.”According to its website, Gennova Biopharmaceuticals, a Pune-based biotechnology company, is developing an mRNA vaccine to curb the spread of Covid-19, in collaboration with HDT Biotech Corporation which is based in Seattle. They are conducting trials of the vaccine named, HGCO19, on rodents and non-human primate models.Biological E. Limited (BE) is also preparing a vaccine in collaboration with US based Dynavax Technologies Corporation (Dynavax) and Baylor College of Medicine. The results of BE’s vaccine trials are expected to be released in February 2021. Drugs Controller General of India (DGCI) on November 16 had given the Pune-based pharmaceutical company the permission to conduct Phase 1 and Phase 2 trials.Dr Reddy’s, one of the largest global pharmaceutical companies, has partnered with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) to conduct clinical trials of the Sputnik V vaccine developed by the Gamaleya Institute in Russia. RDIF and Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd have agreed to supply 100 million doses of Sputnik V, conduct clinical trials and distribution of the vaccine.PM Modi had earlier visited Zydus Cadila’s manufacturing facility near Ahmedabad, Bharat Biotech’s vaccine manufacturing facility at Genome valley at Hyderabad and Serum Institute of India (SII) campus at Pune on Saturday to review India’s vaccine delivery system and preparedness.India has recorded 9,392,919 cases of Covid-19 and the death toll has crossed 136,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-interact-with-three-covid-19-vaccine-development-teams/story-ZvwLmHoOK2bEscj5F91TXN.html
29-11-2020||India||3 of family from Telangana killed in US road accident||Three members of a family from Telangana’s Narayanpet district were killed and three others were injured in a road accident near Lubbock in Texas in the US on Saturday afternoon (Indian Standard Time), his family members said. The deceased were identified as G Narayana Reddy (56), who was working as a bus conductor of Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) in Hyderabad, his wife Lakshmi alias Venamma (49), a homemaker and their son Bharat Reddy (27), a software engineer in Dallas. Reddy’s daughter Mounika (29), also a software engineer in Dallas, sustained injuries and was undergoing treatment at a local hospital at Lubbock. She is said to be out of danger. The family hails from Pedda Chinthakunta village of Marikal block in Narayanpet district. “There were two other members of another Telugu family, – Sai Praneeth and another girl, both in their 20s, in the car, when the accident took place. The condition of Sai Praneeth is said to be critical, while the other girl is recovering,” Reddy’s nephew G Yugandhar Reddy, told Hindustan Times. The news about the accident reached Narasimha Reddy’s brothers late on Saturday night. “According to the information, the accident occurred late on Friday night (local time in Texas) near a hill closer to Lubbock city. “We do not know exactly where they were going or coming from. My uncle has two children – son and daughter. Now, only the daughter is alive. Unless she gains consciousness, the details of the accident will not be known,” Yugandhar Reddy said. “Since there are stringent restrictions for Covid-19 there, others are not being allowed. My two other cousins (of a different family), who are also working in the US, are reaching the hospital to get the first-hand information,” he said. Narasimha Reddy and his wife left for the US in July this year in Vande Bharat flights, following the request from their children who were forced to work from home because of the pandemic. “In the US, they were in search of good alliances for Mounika. Very recently, Bharat constructed a new house in Dallas,” Yugandhar Reddy said. He said there was no possibility of the bodies of Narasimha Reddy, Lakshmi and Bharat being brought to India for last rites, nor any relative going to the US for the last rites. “In any case, it all depends on the decision of Mounika, who is still unconscious with multiple injuries,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-of-family-from-telangana-killed-in-us-road-accident/story-GModX3FXoiBQTOuIgA5Q1J.html
29-11-2020||India||8 states, UTs reported nearly 71% of new Covid-19 deaths in 24-hour span||Nearly 71 per cent of the 496 new Covid-19 fatalities reported in a span of 24 hours were from eight states and union territories with Delhi recording the highest number of 89 deaths followed by Maharashtra with 88 and West Bengal with 52, the Union health ministry said on Sunday.It said 22 states and UTs have recorded case fatality rates lower than the national average of 1.46 per cent.The current active Covid-19 caseload of the country stands at 4,53,956, which comprises 4.83 per cent of the total coronavirus infections reported so far.Maharashtra recorded the highest positive change with the addition of 1,940 cases, whereas Delhi recorded the highest negative change with a decrease of 1,603 active cases in a span of 24 hours, the ministry said.A total 41,810 new confirmed Covid-19 cases have been registered in a span of 24 hours in the country, according to the data updated at 8 am on Sunday.The ministry said 70.43 per cent of the daily new cases were contributed by eight states and UTs -- Kerala, Maharashtra, Delhi, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, and Chhattisgarh.Kerala leads the tally with 6,250 new Covid cases. Maharashtra recorded 5,965 new cases, while Delhi follows with 4,998 new infections.The number of Covid-19 recoveries in India stands at 88,02,267 with 42,298 recoveries being registered in a span of 24 hours in the country.The ministry said 68.73 per cent of the new recovered cases were observed to be concentrated in eight states and UTs.Delhi has reported the highest number of 6,512 single-day recoveries followed by 5,275 in Kerala and 3,937 in Maharashtra, it said.The Covid-19 infection tally in the country mounted to 93,92,919 on Sunday, while the death toll climbed to 1,36,696, the data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-states-uts-reported-nearly-71-of-new-covid-19-deaths-in-24-hour-span/story-javTBd3zYusYwcEwOw2KxO.html
29-11-2020||India||‘Hold talks with farmers immediately, unconditionally’: Arvind Kejriwal to Centre||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal asked the Centre to immediately and unconditionally hold talks with the farmers who continued to protest against the new agri laws for the fourth consecutive day on Sunday, staying put at the Singhu and Tikri border points of the national capital.The Aam Aadmi Party has supported the farmer’s protest and its national convenor Kejriwal asked the Centre to immediately meet the farmers.“The central government should talk to farmers immediately (and) unconditionally,” he said in a tweet.At a press conference on Sunday, senior AAP leader and chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj said his party believes that Home Minister Amit Shah has shown “utter irresponsibility” by leaving Delhi to campaign for Hyderabad municipal elections when lakhs of farmers were waiting at the Delhi border to talk to him.Bhardwaj said that on one hand, Amit Shah was telling farmers that coronavirus cases might increase due to their protest and on the other, he was claiming that in his Hyderabad roadshow there was massive public participation which shows “no social distancing was maintained”.“The Aam Aadmi Party believes that this is the utter hypocrisy of Union Home Minister Amit Shah and we condemn such irresponsible act. The Aam Aadmi Party believes that such a home minister is very dangerous for India,” he said.“In this serious situation, the Home Minister of our country is not in Delhi but in Hyderabad and he is holding a press conference regarding the issues related to Hyderabad municipality. The Home Minister of our country is doing an election campaign for the councillors of Hyderabad and taking out massive roadshows. He is talking about Hyderabad city’s waterlogging problem and the problems of potholes,” Bhardwaj said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hold-talks-with-farmers-immediately-unconditionally-arvind-kejriwal-to-centre/story-uQgp3kLK7C7BDnw0lgw5GL.html
29-11-2020||India||Delhi Covid-19 cases decline but deaths cross 9K-mark: 10 key statistics you need to know||Delhi on Sunday reported 4,906 new Covid-19 cases, taking the cumulative toll of positive cases reported so far this year to 5,66,648. In the last 24 hour, the national capital witnessed 68 deaths, adding to the total deaths which have reached past the 9,000-mark. Here are the ten important statistics you need to know about Covid-19 spread in Delhi:- Delhi’s positivity rate on Sunday increased by a small margin and rose to 7.64 %. A day earlier, it was recorded at 7.24 %. Exactly two weeks earlier, the positivity rate - total positive Covid-19 cases out of population tested - for the national capital hovered almost double the mark. On November 15, Delhi had recorded 15.33 per cent positivity rate.- Delhi’s positivity rate is lowest since October 23. - Delhi’s death toll crossed the 9,000-mark on Sunday after 68 deaths were recorded due to the coronavirus infection in the last 24 hours. It is the lowest death toll in almost 23 days, as Delhi witnessed a surge in fatalities at an unprecedented rate. -This is the second consecutive day in Delhi that the number of deaths has remained below 5,000 and the positivity rate below eight per cent. - Recoveries in Delhi reached 5,22,491 after a total of 6,325 people who recovered from the illness were recorded on Sunday. - The city had recorded its highest single-day spike of 8,593 cases on November 11.- Active cases in the national capital stand at 35,091, out of which 21,337 people are recovering in home isolation. It has dipped from 36,578 from a day before. - Delhi’s case fatality rate - total deaths recorded from the total cases reported - is at 1.6 %. - A total of 64,186 tests, including 29,839 RT-PCR ones and 34,347 rapid antigen tests, were conducted by the authorities, according to the Delhi health bulletin. Delhi, which has actively conducted high number of tests across the country, carried out 69,051 tests, including 33,147 RT-PCR ones -- the highest till date -- on Friday.- As many as 131 Covid-related deaths were recorded on November 18, the highest till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-covid-19-cases-decline-but-deaths-cross-9k-mark-10-key-statistics-you-need-to-know/story-QN4CTKcqUlcmDwqJuBX20N.html
29-11-2020||India||Uttarakhand reports maximum weekly Covid-19 deaths and cases in past one and half months||Uttarakhand recorded the highest spike in weekly cases of Covid-19 and casualties in the past week in the last one and half months, according to data from the state health department.In the past week (November 22-28), 68 Covid-19 patients died while 3,161 new cases were reported. Uttarakhand currently has 4,876 active Covid-19 cases. Anoop Nautiyal, the founder of Dehradun-based think tank Social Development for Communities that has been analysing the Covid-19 data in the hill state, said, “Cases and fatalities have been continuously increasing in the state, especially in the past one and half months. Weddings and festivals turn out to be spreader events. People need to take maximum possible precaution and be safe.” He further said that between November 19-25, every third Covid-19 case in the state,has been reported from Dehradun district (36% cases). “While the state has 29 cases per lakh population, Dehradun has over double with 59 cases per lakh population. The district of Dehradun is in the most vulnerable position. Remote hilly districts like Chamoli and Pithoragarh are vulnerable too with 56 and 51 cases per lakh respectively. The districts of Udham Singh Nagar, Almora and Haridwar have the least per lakh cases,” added Nautiyal. Uttarakhand has so far reported over 73,000 cases of Covid-19 out of which over 67,000 have recovered. The recovery rate in the state stands at 91.87% while the positivity is 5.62%. Dehradun district has so far reported the maximum 21,045 Covid-19 positive cases followed by Haridwar (12,015), US Nagar (10,245) and Nainital (8,476). The state health department has so far tested 13.15 lakh people of which results of over 18,300 are pending. Meanwhile, all markets except essential services remained closed in Dehradun on Sunday as part of the weekly shutdown to curb further spread of Covid-19 cases in the district. Ashish Kumar Srivastava, district magistrate Dehradun said, “All markets remained closed on Sunday. Only essential services like groceries, milk and dairy shops, medical services, home-deliveries were exempted from the shutdown. Marriages and other ceremonies which were fixed from before are being allowed with special permission but the situation is being strictly monitored to ensure all safety protocols are followed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-reports-maximum-weekly-covid-19-deaths-and-cases-in-past-one-and-half-months/story-DIepo0xIRC85rDxHwZGzoJ.html
29-11-2020||India||Mufti alleges BJP developing ecosystem not conducive for democracy||People’s Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti on Sunday said that the BJP wants to build an ecosystem where there is no democracy.Mufti, who claimed to have been detained on Friday after she was restricted from visiting Pulwama in South Kashmir to meet with the family of Waheed Parra, a senior PDP leader, on Sunday said that the ruling party wants to ban her party because she raises her voice against them. They are trying to get to me. They want to ban my party. Because I raise my voice. I am repeatedly told that Article 370 is being talked about since my release. But what can I do about that: PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti pic.twitter.com/OIiPHUOcSuOn the ongoing eight-phase District Development Council (DDC) elections, she also claimed that the elections are no solutions to the problems of Kashmir. She said simply conducting polls would not solve the problem of Kashmir, which in turn would persist as long as the Centre’s 2019 decision was not revoked and dialogue was not held with Pakistan. Also Read | J&K goes to DDC polls, first time after Article 370 abrogation. All you need to know“After we decided to participate in the DDC election, the degree of oppression has increased in Jammu & Kashmir. Candidates of PAGD are confined & are not allowed to go out for campaigning. How candidates will contest if they are not allowed to canvass,” she added.Mufti also said that the ruling party calls Muslims as Pakistani, Sardars as Khalistani, activists as Urban Naxal and students as members of Tukde Tukde gang and anti-national.  They call Muslims as 'Pakistani', Sardars as 'Khalistani', activists as 'Urban Naxal' & students as members of 'Tukde Tukde gang' & 'anti-national'. I fail to understand if everyone is terrorist & anti-national, then who is 'Hindustani' in this country?Only BJP workers?:PDP chief https://t.co/gT07YLMQg5This is the first election that is happening in Jammu and Kashmir since August 5, 2019, after the abrogation of Article 370 and its reorganization as a Union Territory. The elections that began on Saturday are scheduled to happen in eight phases and continue till December 19. The counting will take place on December 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-does-not-want-an-ecosystem-for-democracy-mehbooba-mufti-on-ddc-elections/story-TY8eSMTu6XL8OszxJgv2EM.html
29-11-2020||India||Business relations with India will continue to grow stronger, says Swedish official||Trade relations with India will continue to grow stronger and deeper, and also create new employment opportunities, Ambassador of Sweden to India Klas Molin has said. Speaking at ‘India Sweden Innovation Day 2020’, Molin said the innovation partnership between the two countries has strengthened since its announcement in 2018. The ambassador termed innovation as one of the absolute cornerstones of relations between Sweden and India. “Both our governments have allocated funding for multi-million calls under our partnership. As a consequence, business links between our countries will continue to grow stronger and deeper, drawing us closer together and creating jobs and prosperity,” Molin was quoted as in a statement.  In his address, Union Minister for Road Transport, Highways Nitin Gadkari, who also participated in the virtual conference said, when it comes to innovation, both Sweden and India have a lot in common to share for their mutual good. There are immense opportunities that exist on the two sides and which needs to be identified and promoted. “The mutual cooperation, coordination and communication among the stakeholders in India and Sweden will strengthen, survive and grow in new normal. Innovation, entrepreneurship, science and technology, R&D, skills, knowledge, and conversation of knowledge into wealth is the future,” he said. The one-day virtual event was jointly organised by India Unlimited in Sweden, in association with Embassy of India in Sweden, Sweden India Business Council and CII on Friday.Attended by about 500 participants, the event brought together the stakeholders from governments to other key organisations who spoke about energy partnership, safe transport, innovation collaboration, sustainable business models, civil and cyber security, health tech, skilling and tech start-ups, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/business-relations-with-india-will-continue-to-grow-stronger-says-swedish-official/story-3GWyHDj4iD1v2p1ejxyspL.html
29-11-2020||India||Priority to maintain law and order: Bihar Deputy CM on Tejashwi’s ‘Maha jungle raj’ remark||Responding to Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav’s ‘maha jungle raj’ remark, Bihar deputy Chief Minister Tarkishore Prasad on Sunday said the maintenance of law and order in the state is his government’s priority. “It is not a hidden fact, everyone knows what was the law and order situation under the previous government in Bihar, and BJP has successfully transformed the state. It is our government’s priority to maintain the law and order situation in the state” Prasad said.“All the MLAs of BJP are standing with the party and Tejashwi Yadav should first fix his own house and avoid giving such statements,” he added.Prasad’s reaction came after Tejashwi Yadav slammed Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar by terming the law and order situation in the state as “maha jungle raj”.“In Bihar, ‘maha jungle raj’ is going wild with the outpouring of criminals, gunfire, and havoc on businessmen. There is a chaotic and scary environment everywhere. Law and order have vanished. The Chief Minister sitting in his double-engine train is lethargic and helpless. Why is ‘maharaja’ of the maha jungle raj silent?” Yadav tweeted in Hindi.He said this after an aide of Janata Dal-United legislator Amarendra Pandey died on Saturday in Gopalganj after unidentified miscreants opened fire at him and two others.Those who sustained injuries in the incident were admitted to a hospital. A case has been registered and two persons have been arrested in the matter and are being questioned about their involvement in the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priority-to-maintain-law-and-order-bihar-deputy-cm-on-tejashwi-s-maha-jungle-raj-remark/story-ptxkhlVwFBecC3WAarXkzO.html
29-11-2020||India||PM Modi to visit Varanasi tomorrow, will take part in Dev Deepawali||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit his parliamentary constituency Varanasi on November 30 to inaugurate a six-lane widening project on National Highway 19 between Varanasi and Prayagraj. He will also inaugurate Deep Deepawali festival and is scheduled to visit the site of Kashi Vishwanath Temple Corridor Project followed by a visit to the Sarnath Archaeological site. The 73-Km stretch of the newly widened and six-laned NH19, made with a total outlay of Rs 2,447 crore, is expected to reduce the travel time between Prayagraj and Varanasi by one hour, said a statement issued by the Prime Minister’s Office. Dev Deepawali, which has become a world famous festival of light and fervour in Varanasi, is celebrated on every Poornima of the Kartik month. The festival will be started by the Prime Minister by lighting a diya on the Raj Ghat of Varanasi, which will be followed by lighting of 11 lakh diyas on both sides of River Ganges.Dev Deepawali falls on the full moon of the Hindu calendar month Kartika — 15 days after Diwali.During the visit, the Prime Minister will also undertake a site visit of the under construction Kashi Vishwanath Temple Corridor Project to review its progress. He will also see the light and sound show at the archaeological site of Sarnath, which had been inaugurated by him earlier this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-visit-varanasi-tomorrow-will-take-part-in-dev-deepawali/story-dVcwcLncBgKmUNTSHdOnWO.html
29-11-2020||India||4 killed as vehicle carrying wedding party collides with truck in Rajasthan||Four people were killed and 10 injured when a pick-up truck carrying a wedding party collided head on with a truck in Bharatpur early Sunday, police said. The accident took place on the Bharatpur-Alwar state highway near Panhori village under Deeg police station when 13 members of a family were going from Jhansi of Uttar Pradesh to Mahendragarh in Haryana for a wedding. Three family members and the driver were killed in the collision.Police reached the spot and rescued all injured from the vehicle with help of villagers. Harvir Singh, head constable of Deeg police station, said the bodies will be handed over to the families after post-mortem examination. Six critically injured were referred to Raj Bahadur Memorial district hospital from Deeg community health centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-killed-as-vehicle-carrying-wedding-party-collides-with-truck-in-rajasthan/story-9j9z360EGcgkaq33699ATP.html
29-11-2020||India||Artificial potato crisis created in Bengal, TMC govt to blame: Dilip Ghosh||Hitting out at the TMC government in West Bengal, BJP state president Dilip Ghosh on Sunday alleged that an “artificial potato crisis” has been created in the state by those patronised by the ruling party.Expressing concern over the “sudden spurt in the price of the kitchen staple, now available at Rs 40 per kg, if not more”, Ghosh said this has hurt common man and pinched their pockets hard.“Why is the price of potato so high? The crisis has been created artificially by those patronised by the ruling party. It has been created by those who take cut money for everything,” Ghosh told reporters here.The BJP leader also said that a section of TMC members are unhappy with the way the leadership has been functioning, and claimed that the “revolting” cadres are raising slogans such as ‘PK Hatao TMC Bnachao’ to protest against the ruling party’s decision to hire election strategist Prashant Kishores services before 2021 Assembly polls.Asked if the saffron party will be able to recover from the jolt it faced in the Hills, with Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Bimal Gurung severing ties with the NDA and joining the TMC camp, Ghosh said the turncoat has “betrayed” the people of Darjeeling.“Gurung has betrayed the people in the Hills and the Binoy Tamang faction has no acceptability. The BJP, however, has all along stood by the people there. Our MP enjoys great popularity in the Hills,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/artificial-potato-crisis-created-in-bengal-tmc-govt-to-blame-dilip-ghosh/story-hBpsqxRE66xypCSqxZdwII.html
29-11-2020||India||MVA govt is ‘anti-Vidarbha’: BJP’s Devendra Fadnavis||BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Sunday accused the MVA government in Maharashtra of being “anti-Vidarbha” and neglecting the region by not providing funds for its development.The only development works underway in the Vidarbha region are those approved by Union minister Nitin Gadkari, Fadnavis claimed while addressing BJP workers ahead of the December 1 MLC poll for the East Vidarbha graduates’ constituency where the party has fielded Sandip Joshi.“This government is completely anti-Vidarbha and its approach is the same towards Marathwada and other backward regions,” alleged Fadnavis, who hails from Nagpur in Vidarbha.The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) has “contempt and anger” towards Vidarbha, the former chief minister further charged.That is why it has discontinued the Vidarbha Statutory Development Board (the term of which expired in April this year) and other projects and did not provide any funds for Vidarbha, he said.The farmers of Vidarbha affected by floods and other natural disasters are also left in the lurch, he said.The works pertaining to roads, flyovers, railway over-bridges and other projects in Vidarbha are initiated by Union minister Gadkari, he claimed.“There is not even one work underway in Vidarbha which can be attributed to this government,” the leader of opposition in state Assembly claimed and accused the ruling dispensation of not fulfilling its promises made to people.“Is this a government or a drama?” he asked.Fadnavis also said the previous BJP-led government had initiated the ‘MahaJyoti’ scheme (a training and career guidance institute) for the Other Backward Classes (OBCs), but the MVA government has stopped all various welfare measures under it.Similarly, the Rs 500 crore fund which had been granted to the ‘OBC Mahamandal’ under the BJP rule has not being spent by the MVA government for welfare of the community, he claimed.“When we passed the law on reservation for the Maratha community, we had included a section which clearly mentioned that no one can touch the OBC community reservation,” he said.Some people in the current government are creating confusion on the issue of OBC reservation for “political purpose”, he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mva-govt-is-anti-vidarbha-bjp-s-devendra-fadnavis/story-Hsj30x19kcebc2jtEmmGcP.html
29-11-2020||India||Farmers’ demands are justified and I support them, says former Haryana CM Bhupinder S Hooda||Former chief minister of Haryana Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Sunday came out in support of the farmers protesting against the three agriculture laws enacted by the Centre and said that their demands are justified. Hooda also urged the Centre to find a solution to protesting farmers’ agitation and invite them for talks to negotiate. “The centre should let go of their stubbornness by inviting farmers for negotiations. The way Haryana government tried to stop farmers, it has hurt their sentiments. Farmers’ demands are justified & I support them. I urge the centre to find solution,” Bhupinder S Hooda said, as quoted by news agency ANI.Thousands of protesting farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh among other neighbouring states have gathered at borders of the national capital as part of their ‘Delhi Chalo’ march against Centre’s recently passed farm laws.Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar has invited the farmers for talks on December 3 to resolves differences, assuring that the talk will have a positive outcome.Earlier on Saturday, Union home minister Amit Shah also informed the farmers that the Centre was ready to hold discussions with them. “To farmers protesting at the Delhi-Haryana border and Punjab border, I would like to tell them that the central government is ready to discuss all their issues over a meeting called upon by the agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on December 3. We are ready to hear all their concerns and demands,” Shah told ANI. However, in their reply, the farmers’ representatives have set new conditions for the next round of discussions and have asked for involvement at the highest political level. The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) on Sunday said the home ministry should not lead the talks as agriculture was outside its jurisdiction.The farmers have been protesting against the three agriculture laws since November 25 and want the Centre to rollback the laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-demands-are-justified-and-i-support-them-says-former-haryana-cm-bhupinder-s-hooda/story-FbD97t6UY7c8xtlN77lO2H.html
29-11-2020||India||NIA rejects reports of seizing Stan Swamy’s sipper as ‘false and mischievous’||The NIA on Sunday dismissed as “false, incorrect and mischievous” reports which alleged the premier investigation agency has seized human rights activist Father Stan Swamy’s straw and sipper, and that it has sought 20 days from a court to respond to his plea for the drinking aid.The 83-year-old was arrested from his residence in Ranchi on October 8 for his alleged involvement in the Elgar Parishad case and is lodged at the Taloja Jail in Mumbai.A National Investigation Agency (NIA) spokesperson said Swamy is a hard-core activist of the banned CPI(Maoist) and was charge-sheeted on October 9 along with seven other accused for his involvement in the Bhima Koregaon Elgar Parishad case.The case relates to an Elgar Parishad event of December 31, 2017 organised at Shaniwarwada in Pune where alleged provocative speeches were made, leading to violence resulting in the loss of life and property and a statewide agitation in Maharashtra.The NIA never took his police custody, and all the necessary legal formalities such as his medical examination were duly observed, the spokesperson said, adding that since then, he has been in judicial custody at the Taloja Central Jail.Nearly after a month on November 6, Swamy filed an application at the NIA court in Mumbai for getting back his straw and sipper, which he falsely claimed to have been kept by the NIA, the official said.The court asked the NIA to file its reply on the next date on November 26.The NIA duly filed its reply in the court on the scheduled date, stating that it had conducted his personal search in the presence of independent witnesses and no such straw and sipper were found, the spokesperson said.The court then rejected Swamy’s application and issued necessary direction to the jail authorities on November 26 to provide him straw and sipper.As the accused was in judicial custody, the matter was between him and the jail authorities, which come under the Maharashtra state administration, the NIA official said.“The reports claiming that the NIA recovered straw and sipper from accused Swamy and sought 20 days’ time from the court to respond to his plea to allow him a straw and sipper in Taloja Central Jail are false, incorrect and mischievous as the NIA neither recovered any straw and sipper from the accused nor sought 20 days’ time to file reply in the said application,” the official added.According to the NIA, Swamy was propagating among other cadres that the arrest of the urban CPI(Maoist) cadres from different parts of country, particularly in Maharashtra, has caused an irrevocable damage to the outlawed organisation.It has alleged that he received funds from other Maoist cadres for furtherance of the activities of the CPI(Maoist).Swamy is the convener of the Persecuted Prisoners Solidarity Committee (PPSC), a frontal organisation of the CPI(Maoist), the official said.Incriminating documents related to communications for furthering the activities of the CPI(Maoist) were seized from his possession, the NIA official added.The Bhima Koregaon case was taken over by the NIA on January 24 this year. Pune Police has alleged that the violence was caused following speeches given by members of the group Elgar Parishad a day before.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-rejects-reports-of-seizing-stan-swamy-s-sipper-as-false-and-mischievous/story-QDFFk65sCNcWm1f6YdVzKL.html
29-11-2020||India||Heavy rains likely in Kerala over next few days due to low-pressure area formed in Bay of Bengal||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said that the State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA) has directed the public to be vigilant as the impact of the low-pressure area formed in the Bay of Bengal may cause extremely heavy rainfall and strong winds in parts of Kerala.“Going to sea from the coast of Kerala will be completely banned from midnight on November 30 as the sea is likely to be very rough from December 1. Those who are currently out fishing should reach the nearest safe shore by midnight on November 30th. These warnings should be strictly followed as there is a slight risk of low pressure turning into a hurricane,” said Kerala Chief Minister.He said according to weather forecast heavy rains and strong winds are likely in southern Kerala as the impact of low pressure is expected in Kerala as well.“Currently, extreme caution is required in Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam districts as per the weather models. However, from Thiruvananthapuram to Ernakulam, caution is advised and further warnings should be followed,” he added. Chief Minister said that Revenue and Local Government Departments have been directed to prepare for starting relief camps by December 2 in case of strong winds.“Those who live in unoccupied houses and those whose houses do not have strong roofs should be prepared to relocate for safety in the light of warnings of the coming days,” he added.The State Disaster Management Authority and the Indian Meteorological Department are closely monitoring the development and trajectory of the low-pressure area.As per the weather forecast, Pathanamthitta and Idukki districts will receive very heavy rain on December 1. On December 2, very heavy rainfall is predicted for Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rains-likely-in-kerala-over-next-few-days-due-to-low-pressure-area-formed-in-bay-of-bengal/story-zSBiYJaQOjVillKeDrEQDO.html
29-11-2020||India||Farmers’ protest hijacked by extremists, Cong wants to incite riots: BJP leader||BJP national general secretary and Uttarakhand state unit in-charge Dushyant Kumar Gautam on Sunday alleged that the farmers’ protest has been hijacked by extremist elements and claimed that pro-Khalistan and pro-Pakistan slogans were proof of it.He made the claims while addressing media persons in Dehradun during his first visit to Uttarakhand after being appointed the state’s unit in-charge along with newly appointed state unit co- in-charge Rekha Verma.“The agricultural laws are for the whole country, but why are the protests only in Punjab? Slogans of Khalistan Zindabad and Pakistan Zindabad have been raised by people in the protests. How can it be called a protest then?” said Gautam. “Extremist elements have hijacked the protest and are raising slogans for those who are anti-national forces.” Asked where the pro-Khalistan and pro-Pakistan slogans were raised, he said, “It can be seen in the videos making rounds on social media.” Gautam also said that the law enforcement agencies will soon arrest those raising such slogans. “It will happen at an appropriate time after a thorough investigation.” He also attacked Congress and accused it of instigating the farmers’ protest to “incite riots.” “There are Congress workers in the protest and not farmers. They are doing so to incite riots as it is the party that evolved after the 1947 riots and then made its government after the 1984 anti-Sikh riots. Now also it wants to do the same as it feeds on riots,” said Gautam. He then hailed the new farm laws saying that they are for the development of the farmers. “The laws are to increase their income and free them from the clutches of middlemen. We will never go against the farmers as they are our brothers. It was our government which solved the issue of urea supply and procured maximum produce at MSP in Punjab,” said Gautam. The Congress has refuted Gautam’s allegations and accused the BJP of “painting any protest against it with anti-national or terrorism colours.” “Whenever there is a mass protest against their government, they call the protestors anti-national, terrorists or Naxals. They have done the same in this farmers’ protest also by calling the farmers from Punjab as Khalistani terrorists which is shameful,” said Suryakant Dhasmana, Congress vice-president in Uttarakhand. He said, “When our brothers from Punjab fight for the country in the army and lay down their lives, the BJP hails them as martyrs and when they fight for their own rights, they call them terrorists. How is this justifiable?” Dhasmana also rubbished Gautam’s charges that the Congress is involved in the protests.“Congress is supporting the protesting farmers but not involved in it. There is not a single flag of Congress among the protestors. It is the farmers who are raising their voice against the black agricultural laws which they never asked for.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-hijacked-by-extremists-cong-wants-to-incite-riots-bjp-leader/story-N7j2RQk6Ajs6qS5mnhkPvM.html
29-11-2020||India||Pandemic calls off Christmas markets in Europe||The European plazas where people would usually gather at crowded stalls to partake in hot mulled wine, gingerbread, sausages and other delicacies are just empty squares.Christmas markets, a cherished tradition in Germany and neighbouring countries, have joined the long list of annual traditions that were cancelled or diminished this year because of the coronavirus pandemic. November saw many European countries impose partial or tougher lockdowns as new virus cases soared. The restrictions are either being retained or only partially loosened as Advent begins Sunday.Nuremberg’s sprawling, bustling Christkindlesmarkt, one of Germany’s best known holiday markets and traditionally a big tourist draw, was called off a month ago. Markets across the country — including in Frankfurt, Dortmund and many in Berlin — have suffered the same fate, with authorities canceling the events or organizers concluding that it didn’t make sense to push ahead with their plans.Over the border in France, the roughly 300 stalls of Strasbourg’s popular Christmas market won’t go up this year. And it’s the same story in the Belgian capital, Brussels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/pandemic-calls-off-christmas-markets-in-europe/story-r86j2eBSZrwBs6UMXWUKcO.html
29-11-2020||India||Flight departs from Bahrain to Chennai under Vande Bharat mission||Under the Vande Bharat mission, an Air India flight from Bahrain to Chennai departed from Bahrain International Airport on Sunday, informed the Indian Embassy in Bahrain.The Embassy informed in a tweet that the flight carries 142 passengers including four infants, under the air bubble arrangement between India and Bahrain.“#VandeBharatMission Air India Flight AI 1986 from Bahrain to Chennai departed today from Bahrain International Airport with 142 passengers including 4 infants onboard. Wishing safe journey to all the passengers. #AirBubbleIndiaBahrain,” tweeted India in Bahrain. #VandeBharatMission Air India Flight AI 1986 from Bahrain to Chennai departed today from Bahrain International Airport with 142 passengers including 4 infants onboard. Wishing safe journey to all the passengers. #AirBubbleIndiaBahrain pic.twitter.com/tXBlVzoHjQThe Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) has entered into air bubble arrangements with multiple countries even though regular international flights remain banned owing to the Covid-19 pandemic.The eighth phase of the Vande Bharat Mission was initiated earlier this month.The Vande Bharat Mission started in early May to evacuate Indians stranded abroad due to coronavirus-induced travel restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flight-departs-from-bahrain-to-chennai-under-vande-bharat-mission/story-LAuGNS1G6GJjjB3dXOy0HN.html
29-11-2020||India||‘Will rid Hyderabad of Nizami culture, turn it into Mini Bharat’: Amit Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday vowed to get Hyderabad rid of the culture of Nizam, who had once sought to merge the city with Pakistan. Shah, who held an hour-long road show at Warasiguda in Secunderabad as part of campaign for Bharatiya Janata Party for the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation elections to be held on December 1, said Hyderabad had become an integral part of India, thanks to first home minister Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. “Give one chance to the BJP in the GHMC elections. We shall transform from dynasty rule to democratic rule, from corruption to good governance, from secrecy to transparency. We shall transform Hyderabad into a Mini Bharat and not be stuck in Nawabi and Nizami culture,” Shah said, while speaking to reporters at the BJP at the party state headquarters after the roadshow. Watch | Amit Shah holds roadshow in Hyderabad, dares KCR to admit ‘alliance’ with AIMIM Reacting to Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s comment that several BJP leaders were flooding Hyderabad to campaign for the gully elections only to attack him, the Union home minister said they had come to improve the conditions in Hyderabad, not to attack somebody. “The BJP will not undermine any election, whether they are gully or national elections. We have come to Hyderabad because you don’t come out of your farmhouse and your government has not cleaned up even a single gully,” he said. Referring to the allegations that the BJP ministers had not come to call on people when Hyderabad was in floods and the Modi government had not given a single rupee towards flood relief, Shah sought to know whether KCR or All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) leaders had visited any flood-affected areas. “The chief minister did not come out of his bungalow, when the adjacent colonies were reeling under flood water,” he said. He reminded that the Centre had given Rs 500 crore to Telangana under state and central disaster relief funds. The Centre had also given Rs 4,500 crore for various infrastructure development works in Hyderabad. “Perhaps he doesn’t know about this, because he doesn’t go to the Secretariat,” Shah said. The Union minister alleged that in the last six years, AIMIM leaders had indulged in large scale encroachment of nalas, lakes and other water fronts, that resulted in the recent deluge in the city. “But the TRS government has remained silent as it sought to appease the MIM. Not even one storm water drain was constructed in the last six years. If BJP is voted to power in the GHMC, we shall demolish all illegal structures,” he asserted. Shah also questioned the Telangana government as to what happened to its 100-day plan of developing Hyderabad announced during the last GHMC elections in 2016. “They promised one lakh double bedroom houses for the poor, but not even 11,000 were built. What happened to drinking water connections, dump yards, Hussain Sagar cleaning, new hospitals and Musi river development?” he asked. The Central minister challenged KCR to come clean on the alliance with MIM. “We have no problem if the TRS has an alliance with the MIM. Why is KCR afraid of explicitly accepting it? Why is he hiding the fact from the public that both are working together since 2014?” he asked. Only the BJP, said the minister, has the track record and competence to ensure Hyderabad transforms into a global IT hub. “It was because of PM Modi’s policies that the city has been receiving huge foreign direct investments,” he said. Reacting to MIM president Asaduddin Owaisi’s question as to what the Centre was doing when Rohingyas were staying illegally in the country, Shah said everybody had watched on television sets as to who had made a hue and cry in Parliament, when the Centre was bringing a bill to repatriate Rohigyas. “Let Owaisi give it in writing. We shall drive away Rohingyas immediately,” he said. On the allegations that the TRS that the BJP were playing divisive politics, the Union minister said the allegation should be directed at the MIM. “Owaisi knows who wanted to merge Hyderabad with Pakistan. We don’t appease anybody, but serve everybody. All our welfare schemes are meant for Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, irrespective of whether they are Hindus or Muslims,” he said. Shah said the BJP was not contesting the GHMC election to increase its vote share or seat share, but with an aim of winning the Mayor’s seat. “Our goal is to come to power in the next Telangana elections,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-rid-hyderabad-of-nizami-culture-turn-it-into-mini-bharat-amit-shah/story-hTMBmcw9PPu5QNRiwodwoM.html
29-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Ahead of GHMC polls, Amit Shah says mayor of Hyderabad will be from BJP and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.GHMC polls: Mayor of Hyderabad will be from BJP, says Amit ShahHome minister Amit Shah on Sunday said that people of Hyderabad will elect a Bharatiya Janata Party candidate as their mayor in the upcoming Greater Hyderabad Municipal Elections. Read more‘An insult that farmers treated as terrorists’: Sanjay RautShiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Sunday lashed at the Centre for preventing farmers from entering Delhi and said that it was regrettable that farmers were being treated like “terrorists”. Read moreFarmer unions reject Centre’s offer of early talks to resolve deadlock over farm lawsA joint forum of about 30 farmer unions rejected the Centre’s offer of early talks to resolve deadlock over farm laws on Sunday. These farmer bodies said that the protesting farmers will only engage the government in the absence of any pre-condition. Read moreLa Liga: Covid-19 has exposed us and other clubs who were overspending, says Valencia President Anil MurthyAt a virtual press conference earlier this month, La Liga President Javier Tebas named Valencia as one of the clubs who would be taking the biggest financial hit in terms of salary due to the pandemic. Read moreKrushna Abhishek left red-faced after Chandan’s barb on The Kapil Sharma Show: ‘I can perform on all Govinda episodes, can you?’Actor-comedian Krushna Abhishek had to eat his words on the latest episode of The Kapil Sharma Show. During a funny sketch, co-star Chandan Prabhakar poked fun at his recent controversy with actor Govinda and Krushna was left stunned. Read more Special edition Bugatti Chiron Sport ‘Les Légendes du Ciel’ honours past driversBugatti is honouring its racing drivers from the Grand Prix days with a special edition Chiron Sport ‘Les Légendes du Ciel’. The car maker will produce only 20 units of the vehicle. Read morePolar bear Juno rises through the ranks in Canadian Army on 5th birthdayJuno, a female polar bear, at the Toronto Zoo got more than just well wishes from her carers and fans this birthday. The now five-year-old bear also got a promotion. Wow, an extra reason for celebration! Read more‘Agriculture reforms brought new rights to farmers: PM Modi amid protestsIn the latest episode of Mann Ki Baat, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that with the latest reforms in the agriculture sector, farmers have got new opportunities. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-ahead-of-ghmc-polls-amit-shah-says-mayor-of-hyderabad-will-be-from-bjp-and-all-the-latest-news/story-DImtaQKU1hRRySDfetSbZM.html
29-11-2020||India||US surpasses 100,000 new Covid-19 daily cases for 26th consecutive day||At least 100,000 new cases were added to the total number of coronavirus cases in the United States on Saturday (local time) marking the 26th consecutive day the country has topped that benchmark, CNN reported citing the data from Johns Hopkins University.So far today the US has reported 114,397 new cases and 862 deaths, CNN further reported.The exact number of people diagnosed with Covid-19 in the United States stood at 13,047,202 as of 22:15 GMT on Friday. More than 264,000 people have died of the disease in the country since the start of the pandemic, Sputnik reported.The World Health Organization declared the Covid-19 outbreak a pandemic on March 11.The total number of confirmed coronavirus cases in the US has reached 13,244,417, Johns Hopkins University and Medicine reported on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/us-surpasses-100-000-new-covid-19-daily-cases-for-26th-consecutive-day/story-PwLnsUY1bSQWT83uTdn6QO.html
29-11-2020||India||Man, his brother and minor nephew killed over land dispute: Police||A man, his brother and his nephew were murdered in full public view in a village in Hoshangabad district, 70 km south of Bhopal, on Saturday, officials in Madhya Pradesh said. Seven of the accused, including the main suspect who is a cousin of the two brothers, were arrested. According to the police, a land dispute between the two sides is said to be the reason behind the crime. The deceased were identified as Rajendra Kumar Singh, 42, his brother Kunwar Singh, 35, and Kunwar’s son Ayush, 12, all residents of Ayapa village in Seoni-Malwa area, said Hoshangabad superintendent of police (SP) Santosh Singh. According to the police, Rajendra Kumar and Kunwar Singh were dragged from their residence to main accused Anwar Yaduvanshi’s house after being tied to a tractor on Saturday. At Yaduvanshi’s house, the accused attacked the two brothers with iron rods and canes. When Kunwar’s son came to their rescue, he too was fatally beaten up. The accused then ran them over using a tractor.After committing the crime, the main accused drove to the police station along with three of his accomplices and surrendered before the police. Later, the police arrested three others. Three other accused are absconding. According to the police, the two brothers purchased land near a plot owned by Yaduvanshi one and a half years back. Both sides used to often clash on several issues such as outlet of water. The SP said, “A heavy police force has been deployed at the village to avert any further untoward incident. The situation is under control.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-his-brother-and-minor-nephew-killed-over-land-dispute-police/story-Aff7ZYB47ilcXkqwdSPmlO.html
29-11-2020||India||Farm leaders reject Amit Shah’s offer of talks, set new terms||Leaders spearheading the farmers’ agitation have set fresh terms for talks with the Union government, demanding the Centre name and authorise a Cabinet committee or a group of ministers for future discussions, the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) said on Sunday. Nearly 30 leaders of various farmers’ organisations met on Sunday to discuss home minister Amit Shah’s offer to advance the date for the next round of talks scheduled for December 3. Home secretary Ajay Bhalla had on November 28 written a letter addressed to Darshan Pal Singh, the Punjab chief of the Krantikari Kisan Union, along with 31 organisations, reiterating the home minister’s offer for early talks. The AIKSCC said the home ministry should not lead the discussions as agriculture was outside its jurisdiction. “We have rejected the offer for talks with the home ministry. The home ministry has nothing to do with farmers or agriculture,” said Darshan Pal. In a reply to the home secretary’s invitation, the farmers’ representatives set new conditions for the next round of talks, calling for involvement at the “highest political level”. “The Prime Minister takes all decisions in the country. Although Union ministers have participated in the last round of talks, we are not sure if they are empowered to take any decisions. We want a Cabinet committee or a ministers’ group duly authorised or notified by the highest political level for further discussions,” said Avik Saha, the AIKSCC’s national secretary. Sunday is the fourth day since farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh among other neighbouring states set off on their “Dilli chalo” (march to Delhi) campaign to protest a set of laws to liberalise farm trade and open up agricultural markets in the country. Saha said during the anti-corruption agitation led by Anna Hazare in 2013, a Cabinet panel had been named to carry out negotiations with those leading the protests. “We want a similar mechanism for talks, because sometimes talks are led by the food and agriculture ministers and sometimes they seem to be led by the home ministry,” Saha said. The latest stand of the farmers could delay the next round of talks with the government to resolve the politically challenging agitation. “The AIKSCC has demanded that the government should stop dealing with the issue from the prism of intelligence agencies and home ministry. The government got these statutes rammed through Parliament and farmers expect a response that is political, from the highest levels of the government. Its attempt to invoke the Home Ministry only acts as a threat to farmers, rather than arouse confidence in its sincerity,” the AIKCC said in a statement. Thousands of farmers have clashed with police, travelling toward the national Capital, where they are holding protests against three farm laws approved by Parliament in September. Cultivators on tractors and trucks, flung police barricades into a river near Ambala district as they advanced to the national capital, as police stopped them with tear gas and water cannons. The Union home ministry on Friday allowed farmers to assemble at the capital’s Burari grounds and made a fresh offer for talks. “The farmers clearly want to be sure that ministers who would be negotiating with them should be authorised to take decisions. That seems to be the message,” said political analyst Sanjay Kukreti of the Osmania University. Farmers want the Narendra Modi government to revoke three contentious laws approved by Parliament in September. The laws essentially change the way India’s farmers do business by creating free markets, as opposed to a network of decades-old, government-controlled agricultural markets. Together, the laws allow businesses to freely trade farm produce outside the so-called government-controlled “mandi system”, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales, which earlier only government-approved agents could, and lay down new rules for contract farming. Farmers say the reforms would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, erode their bargaining power and weaken the government’s procurement system, whereby the government buys staples, such as wheat and rice, at guaranteed prices. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and railways, food and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal had held day-long negotiations with farmers on November 13. The discussions were inconclusive, but both sides had agreed to continue negotiations in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-leaders-reject-amit-shah-s-offer-of-talks-set-new-terms/story-hRrdePNGfhGZaYB9MVRscP.html
29-11-2020||India||8-year-old raped, killed: Police||An eight-year-old minor has been allegedly raped and then killed in Rajasthan’s Pratapgarh district, police said. According to a police official, the incident has been reported within the limits of Choti Sadri police station area. “The girl’s father had reported her missing on Saturday afternoon at 2.24pm. According to the report, the girl’s father had gone with the family to a farm. During this time, her daughter was alone at home. When he returned to home around 11am in the morning, his daughter was missing,” said Ravindra Pratap Singh, station house officer (SHO), Choti Sadri police station area. After registering the report, the police reached the victim’s village and started searching for the girl with help from the villagers. After searching for about more than two hours, her body was found in a dry well in the village. The police, with the help of the villagers, took the child’s body out of the well and took her to a local hospital around 5.15pm. “Marks of bruised and scars were also found on the body of the victim...Prima facie investigation reveals that the girl was killed after being raped.,” the SHO added. The post-mortem report confirmed that she was raped and then dumped into the well. The body has been handed over to the family members of the victim and special teams have been formed to nab the accused. The team has started registering the statements of the neighbours and family members. A case of murder and rape has been registered on the complaint of father. Further investigation is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-year-old-raped-killed-police/story-IN68AENuC8P69eN2Wqp06H.html
29-11-2020||India||Naveen Patnaik sacks MLA for alleged involvement with tainted forest officer||The arrest of Indian Forest Service officer Abhay Pathak and his son in a disproportionate assets case took its toll on BJD MLA Pradeep Panigrahi with the party on Sunday expelling three-time MLA and former minister Pradeep Panigrahi accusing him of indulging in anti-people activities.The 56-year-old Panigrahi, MLA from Gopalpur in Ganjam district came under the scanner of the vigilance department for his alleged links with 1987-batch Odisha cadre IFS officer Abhay Pathak. Vigilance department officials who raided Pathak’s premises three days ago discovered that he had disproportionate assets worth Rs 9.3 crore. Pathak and his son Akash were arrested on November 27 and remanded in judicial custody till December 9.Panigrahi, whose links with Pathak and his son were revealed during the raid, has been summoned by the vigilance department under section 160 of Criminal Procedure Code to join the probe, people familiar with the probe said.Embarrassed by the developments, chief minister and BJD president Naveen Patnaik on Sunday served a terse expulsion order on Panigrahi with immediate effect making it the first time that a sitting party MLA has been sacked. In May 2012 and October 2014, BJD MLAs Prabhat Biswal and Pravat Tripathy respectively were suspended from the party after they were arrested by CBI in multi-crore rupee chit fund scam.“I have not done any anti-people activity. BJD should clarify what anti-people activity is. Journalists should unearth what kind of anti-people activities I am involved in. I have not taken a single penny from sand mafias and 80 liquor shop owners in the district. I challenge anyone to prove me wrong,” said Panigrahi in his reaction. Not long ago Panigrahi was the CM’s blue-eyed boy when he asked him to after the affairs of his assembly constituency Hinjilikatu. As a reward of his work, Panigrahi was given a party ticket in 2009 from Gopalpur assembly constituency and made minister in 2014. He was also made president of the district unit of the BJD for Ganjam.BJP leader Bishnu Sethi said the expulsion of Gopalpur MLA Pradeep Panigrahi from BJD is a ploy of the ruling party to divert public attention from the murder case of a 5-year-old girl in Nayagarh district.Panigrahi’s daughter was set to get married to Pathak’s son Akash next month in a ceremony at a palace hotel in Rajasthan’s Udaipur. During the raid on Pathak’s properties, vigilance officials came to know of Panigrahi’s involvement in Pathak’s dealings, investigators said.Panigrahi’s trouble began after Tata Motors lodged a complaint with the crime investigation department (CID) of Odisha Police in September against Akash Kumar Pathak accusing him of cheating, forgery and impersonating as the managing director of the company. At least 60 jobseekers in Ganjam district had received fake appointment letters purportedly issued by Tata Motors Limited in which Akash Pathak reportedly played a major role, said officials of the special investigating team (SIT) probing the case. Many of the youths in Gopalpur, Panigrahi’s assembly constituency, had allegedly paid huge amounts of money to Pathak for jobs.Tata Motors in its FIR said that Akash had taken huge amounts of money fraudulently from unemployed youth by promising them in the company. Akash allegedly projected himself as the MD of Tata Motor Pune Passenger Division and CEO designate.Ganjam district BJD president Ramesh Chyau Patnaik said Pathak’s son had cheated people on false promise of giving them jobs. “Such fraud is not possible without any political patronage. Panigrahi’s role in it is very clear,” he said.Earlier, the vigilance department’s raid uncovered the opulent lifestyle of Pathak who worked as additional principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF) in the state forest department. It was found that Pathak made cash deposits of about Rs 9.4 crore in the bank accounts of his son, out of which about Rs 8.4 crore was deposited in Bhubaneswar through ATMs. During the house search and subsequent inquiry, Rs 60 lakh in cash was found along with gold ornaments weighing 800 grams from his nephew and driver.His son owned expensive vehicles like Mercedes, BMW and Tata Harrier as well as high-end bikes was also arrested. The vigilance sleuths found hotel bills of more than Rs 90 lakhs of Hotel Taj Mahal Palace, Mumbai and a booking amount of Rs 20 lakhs at Taj Lake Palace, Udaipur in Rajasthan for the upcoming marriage of his son.During the search in the last two days at his Bhubanesewar home, investigators found that Pathak and his family had made at least 20 trips to different cities across the country through chartered planes at an expenditure of over Rs 3 crore during the lockdown. He was found to own an 8,000 sq ft luxurious apartment with an ivory-crusted bed.Investigators say this is the biggest-ever disproportionate assets case in Odisha. The case has come to light at a time when the Naveen Patnaik government is stressing on transparency in government works through a fancy slogan of 5T( Teamwork, Transparency, Technology leading to Transformation in Time). It also started Mo Sarkar programme on Gandhi Jayanti last year to bridge the trust deficit between government officials and common people due to large scale corruption in government offices over the last decade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/naveen-patnaik-sacks-mla-for-alleged-involvement-with-tainted-forest-officer/story-ZF9Q6fzgg2MHK7QeZdpDlM.html
29-11-2020||India||Centre treating protesting farmers like ‘terrorists’, says Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday said farmers protesting against the Centre’s new agri laws are being treated as if they are “terrorists”, and it is sad that they are not being allowed to enter Delhi.The government should consider the farmers’ demands sympathetically, Raut told reporters here.Thousands of farmers, protesting against three agriculture laws enacted by the Centre, have gathered at border points of the national capital as part of their ‘Delhi Chalo’ march.“It is sad they are not being allowed to come to Delhi and are being treated as if they are terrorists and have come from outside the country. The government should consider the demands of farmers sympathetically,” Raut said.“Farm laws is one issue. Consider all other demands sympathetically. Different states are not doing well. It is up to the Centre to step in and help them,” the Rajya Sabha member said.Replying to a query, Raut claimed farmers were being dubbed as “divisive” because they come from Punjab.“Do you want to create instability by reminding the Punjab farmers of the Khalistan movement period?” he asked the Centre.Thousands of farmers continued their protest for the fourth consecutive day on Sunday, staying put at the Singhu and Tikri border points, with farmer leaders deliberating upon their future course of action about proposed talks with the government.With many roads and entry points of Delhi being blocked, Union Home Minister Amit Shah had appealed to the farmers to shift to the Burari ground, and said the Centre was ready to hold discussions with them as soon as they move to the designated place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-treating-protesting-farmers-like-terrorists-says-sanjay-raut/story-t5QLekqhdXRQC8vaudmwWM.html
29-11-2020||India||IAF carries out special rescue mission to bring back Covid-19 positive scientists from Central Asia||The Indian Air Force (IAF) carried out a special rescue mission in which a group of 50 Indian scientists including those who tested Covid-19 positive were brought back in a special C-17 Globemaster transport aircraft from a Central Asian country.The Indian scientists were in the Central Asian republic on official assignment as part of agreements between India and that country. “As soon as information was received about the spread of Coronavirus among the group of scientists, the Indian embassy in that country got activated. Immediately the government authorities concerned asked the Indian Air Force whether it could bring back the group of scientists which included Covid patients,” sources told ANI.The Indian Air Force had brought back Indian nationals stuck in Wuhan in China and other parts of the world but it had not flown Covid-19 positive patients.However, the C-17 squadron of the Air Force had been preparing for such an eventuality and had practiced manoeuvres to fly Covid-19 patients in emergency and the precautions and safety measures to be taken by the pilots and the crew to avoid getting infected, the sources said. Soon after, the agencies concerned took all due clearances to send the aircraft to the central Asian republic.In the first week of this month, the C-17 aircraft took off from India and reached its destination after an almost nine-hour flight, the sources said.At the airport in that country, the Indian officials there safely brought the group of scientists to the aircraft which had created all possible facilities for evacuating them including separate compartments for passengers, the sources said.The aircraft took off after a two-hour halt at the airport and returned to India and dropped the scientists at a location in the Southern part of the country, they added. The rescue mission took a total of around 20 hours. When asked to share details about the special mission and the personnel who carried it out, the Indian Air Force refused to either comment or confirm the developments.The scientific organisation with which the scientists were affiliated with, also refused to discuss the rescue mission and the people involved in it.Sources said the Indian officials in that country played a pivotal role in helping the scientists return to India.It is learned that post-flight, the Air Force crew and other people involved with the mission underwent the mandatory quarantine procedure and are doing fine, the sources said.The Narendra Modi-led government since 2014 has enhanced its efforts to help out Indian citizens in distress outside the country.Former chief and Union Minister Gen VK Singh had led a rescue mission to bring back Indians stuck in a conflict in the Middle East and then went to war-torn Iraq personally to get back Indians believed to have been abducted by the ISIS terrorists.During this Covid crisis also, the Indian Navy was sent to Iran, Maldives, Sri Lanka, and various other locations to get back Indians safely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-carries-out-special-rescue-mission-to-bring-back-covid-19-positive-scientists-from-central-asia/story-xZrXp3W6LmmvpKrp7MYzXJ.html
29-11-2020||India||Air India plans to operate non-stop flights on Chennai-London route from January||Air India is planning to operate non-stop flights on the Chennai-London route from January next year, making Tamil Nadu’s capital the ninth city to be connected with the British capital.Air India is currently operating non-stop flights to London from Delhi (seven flights a week), Mumbai (four flights a week), Kochi (three flights a week), Ahmedabad (two flights a week), Bengaluru (two flights a week), Goa (two flights a week), Kolkata (one flight a week) and Amritsar (one flight a week), an airline spokesperson told PTI.Asked how has been the occupancy rate in its London flights after the coronavirus-induced lockdown, the spokesperson said the “load factors have been generally good”.“Some of the stations like Delhi, Kochi, Goa and Ahmedabad have seen quite a heavy demand (for London flights),” the spokesperson said.“We have plans to commence direct operations between Chennai and London from January, 2021,” the spokesperson said.Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in India since March 23 due to the Covid-19 pandemic.However, airlines have been permitted to operate special international flights under the Vande Bharat Mission since May and under the bilateral air bubble pacts since July.Flights between India and the UK have been operating under an air bubble pact only post the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-plans-to-operate-non-stop-flights-on-chennai-london-route-from-january/story-rwwxebJddiReyYtUM5azOK.html
29-11-2020||India||Amit Shah in GHMC poll campaign: ‘Will free Hyderabad from Nawab, Nizam culture’||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday took the political campaign heat a notch above after he reached Hyderabad to campaign for the party for the upcoming Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections. He visited the Bhagyalakshmi Temple in Old City area of Hyderabad to offer prayers and held a roadshow from Warasiguda in Secunderabad to Sitaphalmandi before addressing his party workers. The GHMC polls, slated for December 1, will witness a triangular fight between the ruling party in the state, Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), AIMIM, and BJP, which recently bagged the Dubbak Assembly seat in the recently concluded by-polls.Also read | GHMC polls: ‘Only Trump is left’, Owaisi takes a dig at BJP campaignHere are the highlights from his address ahead of GHMC polls:- This time Mayor of Hyderabad will be from our party. I want to thank people of Hyderabad for showing immense support to BJP.- The type of corporation in Hyderabad headed by TRS and Majlis is the biggest impetus in making Hyderabad the IT hub of the world. About 60 lakh people were disturbed due to water filling the city due to rain. Illegal construction takes place at the behest of the Majlis, which prevents the drainage of water.- I assure the people of Hyderabad that once the BJP has a chance, we will remove all illegal constructions and smooth the drainage of water.- Hyderabad is benefitting a lot from investment in the IT sector. PM Modi has created a lot of opportunities for the youth and it shows in the faith shown in India by foreign investors.- PM Modi has opened the way for ‘work from anywhere’. The IT professionals working in Hyderabad are going to benefit the most from this move.Also read: ‘Amit Shah can do roadshow 1,200 km away but farmers are at doorstep,’ Congress attacks BJP over farmers’ protest- The public of Hyderabad demands to know what happened to the 100-day scheme KCR and Majlis promised. If you have done anything in 5 years, then keep it here in front of the public. What happened to the Citizen Charter promised?- We’re going to free Hyderabad from the Nawab, Nizam culture and create a mini-India here. We want to build Hyderabad into a modern city, free from the shackles of Nizam culture.- Narendra Modi ji brought the Ayushman Bharat Yojana for the people of Hyderabad so that the poor could get the benefit of free treatment up to Rs 5 lakh a year. You did not allow this scheme to be implemented in Hyderabad due to political reasons- We want to move Hyderabad from Dynasty to democracy. Whether it is Owaisi Sahab’s party or TRS, everybody questions us. I want to ask that in such a large state of Telangana do you find no one but your family? Does anyone have any talent?- I want to ask KCR why do you have a secret agreement with Majlis? Why not dare to share open seats with the Majlis?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-in-ghmc-poll-campaign-will-free-hyderabad-from-nawab-nizam-culture/story-dFswejRoJTuQfuqbssBsCL.html
29-11-2020||India||BJP releases manifesto in Urdu for DDC polls in Kashmir||The BJP on Sunday released its election manifesto in Urdu for the ongoing District Development Council (DDC) polls in Kashmir.Former MLC Vibhod Gupta released the manifesto in presence of senior party leaders from the Valley such as Sofi Yosuf and Darakhshan Abdrabi.The manifesto claims that while the BJP has unified the country by abrogating provisions of Article 370 and Article 35A that provided special status to the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration – an amalgam of several mainstream political parties, including NC and PDP – was working against the national interest for vote bank politics.It further says that after reorganisation, Jammu and Kashmir has been put on a track of development and peace. The party claimed that stone-pelting was ended and terrorism was being dealt with an iron hand.Read more | J&K goes to DDC polls, first time after Article 370 abrogation. All you need to knowIn the manifesto, the BJP also claimed credit for reserving 100 per cent of government jobs in the union territory for its residents only and framing a policy that will spur industrialisation.The party said it has launched a war against corruption and land grabbing in the union territory. It has said basic amenities like electricity, water supply and road networks in the union territory have been improved as well.The BJP also claimed credit for doing away with SRO-202, a policy brought in by the PDP-BJP government in 2015 under which newly recruited government employees in Jammu and Kashmir were paid a paltry remuneration for seven years before being paid full salary.The first round of polling in the eight-phase maiden DDC elections was held on Saturday. This is the first electoral exercise in Jammu and Kashmir since the abrogation of Article 370 last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-releases-manifesto-in-urdu-for-ddc-polls-in-kashmir/story-J1heJ9MA0dqpeYyMtMQF8O.html
29-11-2020||India||In Hyderabad, Amit Shah says ‘never called farmers’ protest politically motivated’||Union minister Amit Shah on Sunday said that he has never termed the ongoing protests staged by agitating farmers in Delhi as politically motivated. Shah, who is in Hyderabad, to campaign for BJP ahead of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Elections, was speaking to mediapersons at the Telangana BJP headquarters at Nampally.Shah told ANI, “I never called the farmers’ protest politically motivated, neither am I calling it now.” Will rid Hyderabad of Nizami culture, turn it into Mini Bharat’: Amit ShahFarmers from Punjab have been staging protests demanding rollback of the recently passed farm bills. The protests began on November 25 when farmer groups under the Bharatiya Kisan Union started the Delhi Chalo march. Amit Shah had also requested farmers on Saturday to halt their protests and speak to the Centre regarding the issues they are facing with the three farm bills. Shah, while speaking to ANI had said, “To farmers protesting at the Delhi-Haryana border and Punjab border, I would like to tell them that the central government is ready to discuss all their issues over a meeting called upon by the agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on December 3. We are ready to hear all their concerns and demands.”Farmers have rejected the Centre’s offers to hold discussions and have asked the Centre to form a cabinet committee to discuss the issues with the new farm bills. The farmers groups have also highlighted that agriculture is not the domain of the Home Ministry and have demanded that a group of ministers or the prime minister’s office meet the farmers for a fresh set of discussions. Krantikari Kisan Union leader Darshan Pal told HT, “We have rejected the offer for talks with the home ministry. The home ministry has nothing to do with farmers or agriculture.”Farm leaders reject Amit Shah’s offer of talks, set new termsLeaders from the Bharatiya Kisan Union, Krantikari Kisan Union, All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee and 28 other organisations are protesting against the - Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill; the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill. Farmers believe that these bills will adversely impact the agricultural sector by promoting corporate farming and will cause hindrance in procurement of grains under the minimum support price system. The farmers are currently holding protests at Singhu in Delhi-Haryana border. They have denied to proceed to Burari, where the government has earmarked a protest site, and have said that they will only take a decision on holding discussion if Centre does not impose a pre-condition. The protest has entered its fourth day but farmers remain adamant that they shall only withdraw their agitation once Centre hold discussions with the groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-hyderabad-amit-shah-says-never-called-farmers-protest-politically-motivated/story-R5RIQy1RBDMu2nlZ6AkMuO.html
29-11-2020||India||Bengal governor may soon ask TMC to prove majority in House: BJP MP Saumitra Khan||With voices of dissent in the Trinamool congress (TMC) getting shriller, BJP MP Saumitra Khan on Sunday took a jibe at the ruling dispensation, claiming that the governor may soon ask West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee to prove her majority in the Assembly.The TMC, on its part, said the saffron camp leaders have no respect for the democracy.Khan, who is also the state president of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), said on the sidelines of a programme in Jalpaiguri that the current turmoil and the brewing discontentment in the ruling party have brought to the fore the question if the party still enjoys the support of adequate number of legislators in the House.“The way the MLAs have been dissenting and leaving Trinamool, the governor may all of a sudden ask the CM to prove majority... There is a possibility,” Khan said.Several ministers in the Mamata Banerjee cabinet are ready to switch over to the BJP, he stated.Read more | CBI files fresh case in Bengal despite state’s withdrawal of general consentReacting to Khan’s comments, veteran TMC MP Sougata Roy said BJP leaders like him know nothing about the Constitution and its provisions.“How could Khan know first-hand that the governor will make such an unconstitutional move? An elected government cannot be treated this way... and the overwhelming majority of MLAs are with the chief minister. The TMC has the support of 218 legislators in the Assembly,” Roy asserted.The ruling TMC in Bengal had been trying its best to keep its flock together, as several key leaders, including party heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari, have, of late, openly aired their grievanced against the dispensation.According to BJP state president Dilip Ghosh, the TMC lacks the courage to expel Adhikari, who recently quit from the state cabinet, as “the party fears that it might face extinction soon.Ghosh also alleged that leaders of the ruling party, who had almost never stepped out of their homes and offices, are now being “forced” to venture out to get an idea about ground realities, ahead of 2021 Assembly polls.“The month of December appears crucial for TMC, as the party is facing extinction with people abandoning the ship.The TMC lacks the courage to expel anyone. It has not been able to expel Suvendu Adhikari,” Ghosh maintained.The Mamata Banerjee party also did little to address the woes of legislator Mihir Goswami, who recently joined the BJP, the state BJP chief said, adding that more such developments are likely in the coming days.Elections to the 294-member Bengal Assembly are likely to be held in April-May next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-governor-may-soon-ask-tmc-to-prove-majority-in-house-bjp-mp-saumitra-khan/story-FvJjFp5PZHzRvKvGY5XrtN.html
29-11-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: ‘Don’t see use of tear gas, water cannon as force,’says ML Khattar, backs Haryana Police||Amid severe criticism of how Haryana Police used ‘force’ on farmers as they were marching towards Delhi protesting against three recently passed farm laws, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday said he doesn’t consider using tear gas and water cannon as using force. “I don’t consider using tear gas and water cannon as using force,” he said questioning how Punjab government could allow such protests during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.After Haryana Police resorted to tear gas and water cannon amid freezing cold to disperse farmers’ gathering a verbal brawl ensued between Khattar and Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh. Singh accused the Haryana government of using “brute force” against farmers which is “totally undemocratic and unconstitutional”, he said. Khattar, in his swipe at Singh, said he would leave politics if there will be any trouble regarding the minimum support price (MSP) because of the new farm laws. Khattar also accused Singh of being “unavailable” for talks on the farmers’ issues. “Khattar is lying that he tried calling me earlier and I did not respond. But now, after what he has done to my farmers, I will not speak to him even if he calls me 10 times. Unless he apologises and admits that he did wrong with Punjab’s farmers, I will not forgive him,” Singh said. Khattar also hinted at “unwanted elements” in the crowd of protesters and claimed that “card holders” in the Punjab CM’s office have been directing protesters. While the action of police on protesters met criticism, Haryana Police had said they acted with “great restraint”. “Many of our vehicles were damaged by farmers. We tried convincing them to stop their march. We did not use any force against the farmers. We handled the situation with great restraint ensuring law and order is maintained,” state police chief Manoj Yadava said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-don-t-see-use-of-tear-gas-water-cannon-as-force-says-ml-khattar-backs-haryana-police/story-JjoOfDqB5t2fjxiysEdGOI.html
29-11-2020||India||Over 18,000 km railway line electrified in last six years: Piyush Goyal||As much as 18,065 kms of the railway line was electrified under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi between 2014 and 2020 making a “quantum jump” of 371 per cent in its growth pace as compared to the six years before, Railways Minister Piyush Goyal said on Sunday.“Under PM Modi ji’s leadership, Railways has achieved many milestones towards infrastructure development. Electrified 18,065 km of Railway line in 2014-20. Electrification of railway tracks increased by 371 per cent during 2014-20 as compared to 2008-14,” Goyal wrote on Twitter.In his tweet, he also added some infographics, which said that only 3,835 km of railway track was electrified between 2008 and 2014. It also said that the government is planning to electrify 28,143 km railway track between 2019 and 2024, of which 5,642 km has already been commissioned till October 2020. Under PM @NarendraModi ji's leadership, Railways has achieved many milestones towards infrastructure development:🚉 Electrified 18,065 km of Railway line in 2014-20🛤️ Electrification of railway tracks increased by 371% during 2014-20 as compared to 2008-14 pic.twitter.com/TXPkE9SKLZAccording to the Ministry of Railways, a critical section Dighwada-Bandikui of railway route between Ajmer to Delhi has been electrified.“A key step towards making the National Capital Region free from Railways diesel engines. This will contribute in making a cleaner and greener environment in the NCR,” the Ministry said adding that the Indian Railways has set a target to complete electrification of its broad gauge network by December 2023.It said that more than 66 per cent of the broad gauge route has already electrified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-18-000-km-railway-line-electrified-in-last-six-years-piyush-goyal/story-rm1ecj3IyMJpi9i3DdyRxJ.html
29-11-2020||India||Congress trying to destabilise Meghalaya Democratic Alliance govt: NPP||The National People’s Party (NPP) has accused the opposition Congress of trying to destabilise the Meghalaya Democratic Alliance (MDA) government by making baseless allegations.The MDA government is led by the NPP.“Yes, they (Congress) are trying to destabilise the NPP-led MDA government (by making allegations after allegations) despite the fact that the issues they are raising have already been addressed,” NPP Spokesman Marcuise N Marak told reporters on Saturday.The Congress has denied the allegations of Marak that it is trying to destabilise the MDA government.The Congress has demanded a CBI inquiry into the alleged multi-crore scams in the Meghalaya Power Department.It alleged there have been many irregularities and anomalies in the implementation of various projects that include the Asian Development Bank (ADB) funded smart metering project, Saubhagya Scheme and Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Grameen Kaushalya Yojana (DDU-GKY), among others.Leader of Opposition Mukul Sangma of Congress had also alleged corruption in the power department particularly in the implementation of the Saubhagya scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-trying-to-destabilise-meghalaya-democratic-alliance-govt-npp/story-Fti0XjSEw08lZBpbhZ08iJ.html
29-11-2020||India||Chilly mornings, sunny days likely over northwest India in winter: IMD forecast||Nights and early mornings are likely to be chilly with below normal minimum temperatures over most parts of north, northwest and central and some parts of east India, while day temperatures are likely to be above normal over the same regions, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD)’s seasonal outlook for December to February.This also indicates that these regions are likely to see more clear sky days, leading to radiational cooling at night during the coming winter months. The diurnal temperature variation (difference between day and night temperatures) is likely to be high in most subdivisions of north, northwest, central and a few subdivisions of east India.But most subdivisions of northeast India, a few subdivisions of west coast and south peninsular India are likely to experience above normal minimum temperatures during the next three months. Most of the subdivisions of south peninsular India, however, are likely to experience cold days or below normal maximum temperatures, the outlook based on IMD’s Monsoon Mission Coupled Forecasting System (MMCFS) Model forecast.For example, as per the model there is a 60-70% probability that Delhi, Haryana, Chandigarh subdivisions will record below normal minimum temperatures (about 0.42 degree C below normal on average) during the season. There is 100% probability of west Rajasthan recording below normal temperatures to the tune of 1.17 degrees C below normal. Similarly, there is a 100% probability that Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Odisha etc will record above normal day temperatures. Day temperatures in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi could be 1 to 0.99 degree C above normal.There is a 40 to 60% probability that night or minimum temperatures will be above normal in Kerala, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Rayalseema etc., and a 60% to 100% probability that maximum temperatures will be below normal in these regions. “The model is showing that there is a probability of high diurnal variation in temperatures in northwest; north and some parts of India. This could mean there will more clear sky days in the north. Below normal minimum temperatures are also expected over north India due to the effect of La Nina. In Peninsular India, we are seeing the opposite, which indicates there may be clouding and rain in the region; it will lead to warmer nights and early mornings,” explained DS Pai, senior scientist at IMD Pune.“During La Nina years we expect winters to be colder than normal. La Nina is also associated with WDs (western disturbances) and their impact reaching southwards towards the plains. So, this fall in minimum temperatures can be linked to the overall La Nina impact also,” Pai had said last week.El Niño and the Southern Oscillation (ENSO) is a periodic fluctuation in sea surface temperature and the air pressure of the overlying atmosphere across the equatorial Pacific Ocean, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA).ENSO has a major influence on weather and climate patterns such as heavy rains, floods and drought. El Niño has a warming influence on global temperatures, whilst La Niña has the opposite effect. In India, for example, El Nino is associated with drought or weak monsoon while La Nina is associated with strong monsoon and above average rains and colder winters. Currently, sea surface temperatures are below normal over central and eastern equatorial Pacific Ocean and moderate La Niña conditions are prevailing over the equatorial Pacific Ocean according to IMD’s model.“We should remember that this is a probability forecast. It gives you an average general picture of winter months so we shouldn’t focus very much on numbers but get a sense of how overall winter is going to be like,” said K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/above-normal-day-temperatures-below-normal-night-temperatures-likely-in-delhi-in-winter-imd/story-7OhyPrLjTQreU82ZH5WDUN.html
29-11-2020||India||MVA govt in Maharashtra ‘natural’, will stay on, says Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday slammed the BJP for calling the MVA government in Maharashtra as “unnatural”, and said a government is natural till it exists.In his weekly column ‘Rokthok’ in the Sena mouthpiece ‘Saamana’, Raut recalled that during alliance talks last year, NCP chief Sharad Pawar and senior Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge had a heated argument over the Assembly Speaker’s post.“He (Pawar) collected his papers and left the room in anger. I have never seen Pawar so angry,” he said.Raut said the situation changed after that and the next day at dawn (on November 23) BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis and NCP’s Ajit Pawar took oath in a ceremony at Raj Bhavan.Their government collapsed within 80 hours.Last week, former Maharashtra chief minister Fadnavis termed the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA), which comprises the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress, as an “unnatural alliance”, and said the day this tie-up breaks, his party will give a strong government to the state.Reacting to it, Raut said,”The BJP has been predicting the government’s downfall and how it will be done depends on the secret activities and the central investigating agencies. Whatever the ED does, I say with responsibility that the MVA government will stay on.” In politics, “no one is a saint” and no government is natural or unnatural, the Shiv Sena’s chief spokesperson said.“A government is natural till it is there. To destabilise it, agencies like the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) are being used. Those doing illegal constructions and accused of abetment to suicide are being protected,” he alleged.“If these political pressure tactics are natural, then the ‘Thackeray sarkar’ is also natural. The government has proved its majority on the floor of the House and is within constitutional norms,” Raut said.He said if there were no Covid-19 outbreak, floods, cyclones and lockdown difficulties, the situation in the state would have been different in the last one year.After the Maharashtra Assembly polls last year, the Shiv Sena snapped ties with long-term ally BJP over the issue of sharing the chief ministerial post in the state.Recalling last year’s hectic parleys between the Sena, NCP and Congress to form a non-BJP government in the state, Raut said Sharad Pawar and Kharge had a heated argument over the Assembly Speaker’s post in a meeting at Nehru Centre here.“Kharge and others were firm that the post shouldn’t go to the NCP. I have never seen Pawar so angry. He collected his papers and left the room in anger. Myself and (NCP leader) PrafulPatel followed him,” the Rajya Sabha member said.Raut recalled that Pawar had earlier in the meeting said Uddhav Thackeray will be the chief ministerial candidate of the alliance. “But after his argument with Kharge, the situation changed.” “Ajit Pawar was chatting on his mobile for a long time in the room and later left. His mobile was switched-off and he was seen the next day at the swearing-in at the Raj Bhavan,” Raut said.The Sena leader rejected Fadnavis’s claim that Sharad Pawar and Union Home Minister Amit Shah had a meeting in Delhi where it was decided that the NCP will support the BJP following which the early morning swearing-in took place.“There was a meeting at Amit Shah’s place where a top industrialist and NCP leaders may have been present. But, Sharad Pawar was in no mood to have any deal with the BJP,” the Sena leader claimed.“He (Sharad Pawar) told me that ‘offers are being made for a BJP government from various quarters. I will be meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi and will tell him that an alliance with the BJP wasn’t possible’,” he said.Later, Sharad Pawar met Modi on farmers’ issues and also clarified his position on the government formation in Maharashtra, he said.“The real script of the political drama is still under cover and will always remain like that,” Raut added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mva-govt-in-maharashtra-natural-will-stay-on-says-shiv-sena-mp-sanjay-raut/story-ZNdQ3Nbtb5XGyymVXj9S4J.html
29-11-2020||India||Editor’s Guild urges PCI to withdraw ‘ominous-sounding’ advisory on foreign content publication by Indian media||The Editors Guild of India has urged the Press Council of India to withdraw its “ominous-sounding” advisory cautioning against “unregulated circulation of the foreign content”, saying it has disturbing implications. In a statement, the guild said it is perturbed by the “unprovoked” advisory issued by the Press Council of India on November 25 to the media. “Through this advisory, it appears that the Council, which swears by self-regulation of media and believes that any government interference would be destructive to press freedom, is lending its weight towards a step that could bring in some form of censorship and punitive actions against those organisations that publish content, which in its view is seen as ‘not desirable’,” the guild said.The advisory does not specify who will verify the content, on what criterion will it be verified, and most importantly, what does “unregulated circulation” even mean, the statement issued on Saturday said.The guild noted that many publications in the country license and reproduce content from foreign agencies, newspapers, and periodicals, which is a prerogative of the editor, and who is in any case responsible for all the content published in their publication. “A reiteration by the Council at this juncture of this established practice, in an ominous sounding advisory, has disturbing implications,” the guild said. It urged the PCI to withdraw this advisory immediately.The Press Council of India, in its advisory, said it has considered references received from various quarters by the government about the responsibility of Indian newspapers in publishing foreign contents.The council had said it is of the view that unregulated circulation of the foreign content is not desirable.Hence, it advised the media to publish foreign extracts in Indian newspapers with due verification as the reporter, publisher and editor of such newspaper shall be responsible for the contents irrespective of the source from which it is received.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/editor-s-guild-urges-pci-to-withdraw-ominous-sounding-advisory-on-foreign-content-publication-by-indian-media/story-XkfZGSZToST4uqIz8TNxdJ.html
29-11-2020||India||Andhra minister alleges murder attempt on him, suspect in custody||Andhra Pradesh transport and information minister Perni Venkataramaiah, alias Nani, said on Sunday that he survived an alleged murder attempt on him at his residence in Machilipatnam town in Krishna district. The minister told reporters that the incident happened while he was coming out of his residence to meet his well-wishers after performing some rituals for his mother, Nageshwaramma, who died recently. The alleged assaulter, identified as Badugu Nageshwara Rao from Chemmannagiripeta area, was handed over to the Machilipatnam police, who are interrogating him. The accused was said to be in an inebriated condition. According to Nani, a large number of relatives, well-wishers and party workers came to his residence to call on him during the 12th day of the rituals. After completing the rituals, he came out of the house to meet them. A person rushed towards the minister and bowed down to touch his feet. “When I tried to prevent him, he pulled out a sharp iron trowel (used for plastering cement in the construction work) and tried to shove it in my belly. Fortunately, it touched the buckle of my belt,” the minister said. ”Within seconds, my followers caught hold of him and thrashed him, before handing him over to the police. I have not sustained any injuries, but my shirt was torn,” the minister said. The Machilipatnam inspector of police, Venkat Narayana, said a case of attempt to murder was booked on Nageshwara Rao, based on a complaint lodged by the minister’s followers. “We suspect he might have assaulted the minister in a drunken state. We are also verifying whether he has any criminal background or political connections. We are investigating the case,” the inspector said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-minister-alleges-murder-attempt-on-him-suspect-in-custody/story-x36bvtspnWmmXlh2LhX35O.html
29-11-2020||India||Odisha artist creates Lord Jagannath’s idol with 3,635 matchsticks||Amid the surge in coronavirus cases here, Saswat Ranjan Sahoo, an artist in Odisha’s Puri, has created an idol of Lord Jagannath using 3,635 matchsticks to pray for the well-being of people and eradication of the pandemic. Sahoo took 11 days to design this art piece. “I have prayed to God Jagannath to wipe away the Covid-19 pandemic from our lives,” he said while showcasing his work. Since people are not allowed in the Jagannath temple currently, Sahoo decided to help them through his artwork. “Many people are not able to visit the Lord Jagannath temple owing to the ongoing pandemic situation. Hence, I decided to create this idol so that people could pray to God via my artwork,” he added. According to media reports, the Jagannath temple is likely to reopen in December. The iconic temple is closed since March in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Sahoo also showcased some of his artworks at the Puri beach.On Friday, the Nagarjuna Besha of Lord Jagannath and siblings was held in Puri after a gap of 26 years. The last Besha of the Lords was held in 1994.This year’s celebration was muted due to the coronavirus. It was performed in presence of servitors and temple officials due to the pandemic.Odisha on Saturday has registered 550 new Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours taking the tally to 3,17,789, as per the State Health Department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-artist-creates-lord-jagannath-s-idol-with-3-635-matchsticks/story-FvN1NdX1XWnGkEAdL5ZVsI.html
29-11-2020||India||DK Shivakumar supports K’taka Home Minister’s decision to probe into NR Santosh suicide bid||KPCC president DK Shivakumar has welcomed Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai’s decision to conduct a detailed inquiry into the alleged suicide attempt by NR Santosh, the political secretary to Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa.“Basavaraja Bommai has said that a detailed inquiry will be conducted in NR Sanntosh’s suicide attempt case, I welcome his statement. This is the first thing that should take place, I brought this issue in the public domain because of the inside information I had,” said Sivakumar. KPCC chief’s statement comes a day after he demanded an investigation into the alleged suicide attempt by Santosh.“As per my information, as whatever I heard was that a confidential video was distributed by Chief Minister’s political secretary NR Santosh to an MLC and a minister. Later, it was also given to high command leaders of BJP,” the Congress leader had said.“That MLC and minister both were blackmailing the Chief Minister and the leaders in government. It has been happening for the last several months. The Chief Minister’s political secretary allegedly trying to commit suicide is not a small issue. It needs to be investigated properly, the investigation must not be done by the (state) government,” he had said.Santosh was been hospitalised on Friday after he allegedly attempted suicide.He was admitted to Ramaiah Memorial Hospital in Bengaluru and is suspected to have consumed sleeping pills. Yediyurappa visited the hospital and enquired about Santosh’s health, his family members had said.The Chief Minister said that he will speak with him and his family members once he is better, a family member of Santosh had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dk-shivakumar-supports-k-taka-home-minister-s-decision-to-probe-into-nr-santosh-suicide-bid/story-ZthgQPjwKMcgkemyrmkLqI.html
29-11-2020||India||‘An insult that farmers treated as terrorists’: Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Sunday lashed at the Centre for preventing farmers from entering Delhi and said that it was regrettable that farmers were being treated like “terrorists”.“The way farmers have been stopped from entering Delhi, it looks like as if they do not belong to this country. They have been treated like terrorists. Since they are Sikh and have come from Punjab and Haryana, they are being called Khalistani. It is an insult to farmers,” news agency ANI quoted Raut as saying.Also Read: Farmer unions reject Centre’s offer of early talks to resolve deadlock over farm lawsSamajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav also hit out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for “humiliating the farmers by calling them terrorists.” “Humiliating the farmers by calling them terrorists is the worst form of BJP. This is a conspiracy of the BJP, which supports the rich and wants to mortgage small-businesses, shopkeepers, roads transport everything to big corporates. If according to the BJP, the farmers are terrorists, then the party should swear that they will not consume the produce grown by farmers,” the SP chief tweeted in Hindi..Also Read: Sikh politicians, separatists in Canada wade into farmers’ protest rowMeanwhile, the Centre approached the protesting farmers with an offer to hold talks before December 3. The letter from home secretary, however, laid down some conditions. The offer was rejected by the farmer unions.On Saturday, home minister Amit Shah had said that his government was ready to hold talks with the agitating farmers. “The Union government is ready to hold talks. The agriculture minister has invited them on December 3 for a discussion. The government is ready to deliberate on every problem and demand of farmers,” he said.Farm unions are protesting against the three contentious agricultural laws passed by the Centre in September. The three laws, that according to the farmers would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, are - The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/an-insult-that-farmers-treated-as-terrorists-sanjay-raut/story-tb5Nnb8QOCEGYybGJ2nMqK.html
29-11-2020||India||Protesting farmers’ forum rejects early talks offer, sit-in to continue at Delhi borders||The joint forum of 30 farmers unions have rejected Centre’s offer of early talks in a unanimous decision and said they were against any precondition to talks to resolve a deadlock over the three farm laws passed recently by the Parliament. The Central government had offered to advance the talks if the farmer groups protesting against the farm laws at Delhi’s borders agreed to move to a designated venue at Burari in the national capital. President of Sidhupur faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), Jagjit Singh Dalewal, said that the forum’s decision was taken in the meeting held at Singhu border. He stressed that farmers will talk to the Centre only if there is no pre-condition.“Venue for holding a protest is no longer our demand. Our supporters are on road at various places leading to Delhi and the indefinite dharna has begun. It has been resolved that talks with the Centre are possible only if they sent an invitation without any pre-condition. We will send a written reply to the Union minister and home secretary detailing reasons for rejection of the conditioned offer,” said Dalewal, leader of a key constituent of the joint forum of farmers. He denied there was an invitation from the Centre for talks on December 1.The meeting at Singhu border was called in light of a late Saturday missive sent by Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla to all the 32 farmer unions protesting for the last two days. It stated that a high-powered group of ministers was ready to hold talks with a delegation of farmers. The message further stated that the authorities would were willing to advance the talks if the protesting farmers moved to the earmarked protest site in Burari in Delhi.The next round of talks was otherwise originally scheduled to take place on December 3.Also Read: Mann Ki Baat: PM Modi backs farm laws, reaches out to agri community A section of farmers had expressed a strong reservation against holding protests at Burari as it is associated with the Nirankari sect. A farmer leader said that the unions had no plans to vacate the roads leading to Delhi, and the blockades on Bahadurgarh and Chandigarh highways may continue till Sunday night.Meanwhile, the Ughrahan faction of the BKU, one of the most active in Punjab, is yet to take a clear stand on the matter. “Our union leaders will soon hold talks with the joint forum before taking a decision,” Ughrahan said.Earlier today, Ughrahan had stated that the group wanted to hold a demonstration at Jantar Mantar.A large gathering of Ughrahan faction is stationed on the outskirts of Delhi near Bahadurgarh in Haryana’s Jhajjar district. “As of now, a caravan of our activists is stationed at the Delhi border. We could not move to enter the national capital due to the huge rush of farmers heading to Delhi for protests,” he said.Also Read: ‘An insult that farmers treated as terrorists’: Sanjay RautGeneral secretary of Dakonda faction of the BKU, Jagmohan Singh, said all 32 farmer unions of Punjab are united and any further course of protests would be decided with unanimity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protesting-farmers-forum-rejects-early-talks-offer-sit-in-to-continue-at-delhi-borders/story-9dUyuV02HYv1Y6W5TjagNP.html
29-11-2020||India||‘Amit Shah can do roadshow 1,200 km away but farmers are at doorstep,’ Congress attacks BJP over farmers’ protest||If the Prime Minister defends the farm bills, then what is the point of discussion with the protesting farmers, Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala on Sunday said taking a swipe at the BJP government amid the ongoing farmers protests in the Capital. Referring to Modi’s Mann ki Baat speech where PM Modi said the new farm laws have given new rights and opportunities to farmers, Surjewala questioned Centre’s offer to talks with the farmers.“Amit Shah can travel 1200 km and do a roadshow in Hyderabad. The farmers are just 15 km away. But he can’t go and meet them,” Surjewala said. Also Read: Farmer unions reject Centre’s offer of early talks to resolve deadlock over farm laws“There are several questions over these three laws. If there is no mandi, then who will buy crop from farmers in minimum support price. The government is saying farmers can now sell their crops to other states. But 86 per cent of the farmers have less than five acre of land. They can even go out of their district with their crops. And in his Mann ki Baat today, Modiji defended these anti-farmer laws,” Surjewala said. Also Watch | Amit Shah holds roadshow in Hyderabad, dares KCR to admit ‘alliance’ with AIMIM The Congress demanded immediate suspension of the three farm laws and the withdrawal of the 12,000 FIRs filed against farmers. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi should talk to the farmers. Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar should apologise for calling farmers terrorists. So should BJP spokesperson Amit Malviya for calling them ‘Khalistanis’,” Surjewala said.The Centre has invited the protesting farmers for a talk on December 3. Thousands of farmers have reached New Delhi on Saturday, responding to the Delhi Chalo call gainst the three farm laws — defeating all administrative attempts to not let them enter the Capital. The AAP government has designated Burari ground where several farmers are protesting at present but several other groups have denied to move there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-can-do-roadshow-1-200-km-away-but-farmers-are-at-doorstep-congress-attacks-bjp-over-farmers-protest/story-zKXDKyCr7eC0EXLuUHixWL.html
29-11-2020||India||Plea in SC to direct EC to nullify election if NOTA gets most votes||A petition has been moved in the Supreme Court seeking directions to the Election Commission of India to use its plenary power conferred under Article 324 of the Constitution to nullify the election results and hold a fresh election if maximum votes have been polled in favour of NOTA in a particular constituency.The plea, filed by BJP leader and advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay earlier this week, also sought directions to restrict the candidates, who have participated in the invalidated election, from taking part in the fresh election to be held in the particular constituency.Alternatively, it sought to direct the Centre to take apposite steps to invalidate the election result and hold fresh election, if the maximum number of votes have been polled in favour of NOTA (none of the above) in any particular constituency.Upadhayay, in his petition, said that alternatively, being the custodian of the Constitution and protector of the fundamental rights of citizens, the apex court should direct and declare that if NOTA gets maximum votes, then election to that constituency shall be invalidated and fresh elections shall be held within six months.He also sought that the contesting candidates, who are being rejected, in the nullified elections, shall not be allowed to participate in the fresh polls. The plea said that the right to reject will check corruption, criminalisation, casteism, communalism, linguism and regionalism.“If these (directions) would be implemented, then the political parties would be forced to give tickets to honest and patriotic candidates. If candidates on whom the political parties spend crores of rupees are rejected, they would abstain from doing so,” the plea said.“The right to reject contesting candidates would mean true democracy, as the people would be able to elect their representatives in true sense. It will make contesting candidates accountable in their process,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-in-sc-to-direct-ec-to-nullify-election-if-nota-gets-most-votes/story-7S9TH86GecbrKS6NO7Fr3J.html
29-11-2020||India||MP CM Shivraj holds meeting over law and order situation||Madhya Pradesh Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Sunday held a meeting with officials over the law and order situation in the state.Taking to Twitter, Chouhan said that the state government will make Bhopal an amazing capital in terms of development and better law and order and facilities to its people.“Held a meeting with senior officers of Bhopal today and discussed important topics related to the development of Bhopal. We have to develop Bhopal as a model. Good governance is our motto. We will make Bhopal an amazing capital in terms of development, law and order and facilities,” he tweeted. आज निवास पर भोपाल के वरिष्ठ अधिकारियों के साथ बैठक की और भोपाल के विकास से जुड़े विषयों पर महत्वपूर्ण चर्चा की।भोपाल को हमें मॉडल के रूप में विकसित करना है। सुशासन हमारा मूलमंत्र है। विकास की दृष्टि, कानून व्यवस्था और सुविधाओं की दृष्टि से हम भोपाल को एक अद्भुत राजधानी बनाएंगे। https://t.co/BOfx0xAzyn pic.twitter.com/ozBvXnG5OqOn November 26, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had inaugurated Energy Swaraj Yatra in Bhopal.Speaking to ANI, Chouhan had said, “Solar energy is pure, sure and secure. Solar power will help save the earth and its inhabitants. Under the Prime Minister’s leadership, MP is also constantly working in this field.”“Every creature’s existence depends on the survival of the earth. So we all have to contribute to what awareness Prof. Chetan is spreading. Dr Chetan will be the Brand Ambassador of MP’s energy initiative. I wish you success for this great cause #EnergySwarajYatra,” the Chief Minister had tweeted in Hindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-cm-shivraj-holds-meeting-over-law-and-order-situation/story-db1dZoXR9Eo38Lv074gP8O.html
29-11-2020||India||‘Atal Bihari’s NDA had 33 parties, none found it unnatural’: Sena jabs BJP||On the BJP’s charge that the alliance of Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress in Maharashtra is “unnatural and immoral”, Sena’s Sanjay Raut pointed to the coalition of 33 parties with different ideologies in the Atal Bihari-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA). The Sena leader underscored how no one found that government “unnatural”.“If we would not have had Covid-19, lockdown, floods, cyclone Nisarga, the government would have changed the picture of the state. We need to remember that former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee had 33 political parties onboard the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) with different ideologies, and no one found that government unnatural,” asked Raut on the completion of the first anniversary of the Sena-led government in Maharashtra.On Saturday, BJP leader and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis attacked the Shiv Sena-led government, saying it had failed on all counts. He said the government had been unable to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic, resolve farmers’ issues, and had made no progress on development projects.Hitting back at the BJP, Raut said, several BJP leaders from Maharashtra have been saying the government will fall, but they are silent on how. They are keeping it as a secret, he said.“They are dependent on central investigative agencies like that of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the CBI. There are attempts to destabilise the government by using these agencies. Illegal construction and those who abet suicide are being shielded,” allged Raut.The senior Sena leader said that the Madhya Pradesh pattern worked but the same failed in Rajasthan, referring to the defection of Jyotiraditya Scindia, who has since joined the BJP and the collapse of Kamal Nath government, while Sachin Pilot whose spirited rebellion against Ashok Gehlot shook the party is still with the Congress.“There is resentment in governments where there is a clear majority but here we have three political parties. There are ministers and MLAs in our alliance who have issues and the chief minister does resolve them,” Raut said.Going into the details of government formation a year ago, Raut, a Rajya Sabha member, said Sharad Pawar was never into forging alliance with the BJP to form the government in the state and had no secret meetings with the then BJP chief Amit Shah. The meeting of top leaders from three parties at Nehru Centre on November 22, said Raut, witnessed tension between Pawar and Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge, after which the NCP chief left in a huff and Ajit Pawar went sulking minutes after it.“There might be resentment in the government but it will survive. Though Ajit Pawar had gone ahead by taking oath as deputy chief minister under the BJP on November 23, 2019, but today he is a true pillar of strength and trust in the government,” Raut said in his weekly column in party mouthpiece Saamana.Clarifying the rumours swirling around at the time, Raut said: “There was chatter regarding me meeting Sharad Pawar ji on the Mumbai-Pune Expressway to discuss formation of our government, but I had been meeting Pawar ji very transparently.” Raut said that Pawar told him NCP was getting offers from the BJP.Raut said the government was formed a year ago on November 28, 2019 and has support from lakhs of citizens from the state. Despite the BJP and the Shiv Sena having 170 seats post-election results, the government was formed with help of other political parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/atal-bihari-s-nda-had-33-parties-none-found-it-unnatural-sena-jabs-bjp/story-zufaMSfuGp9AotBxiBE8iN.html
29-11-2020||India||GHMC polls: Amit Shah holds roadshow in Hyderabad||Union home minister Amit Shah is holding a roadshow in Hyderabad on Sunday to campaign for the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections. Shah’s roadshow started at Warasiguda in Secunderabad and will go on for a couple of kilometres up to Sitaphalmandi.“Rousing welcome of HM Shri @AmitShah on his arrival in Hyderabad. #AmitShahInGHMC,” BJP tweeted on Sunday as Shah, the former party chief, reached Hyderabad airport.Rousing welcome of HM Shri @AmitShah on his arrival in Hyderabad. #AmitShahInGHMC pic.twitter.com/a8GXUJGNGeShah visited the Bhagyalakshmi Temple in Old City area of Hyderabad to offer prayers before the start of the roadshow.The city’s civic polls are set to witness a triangular fight between the ruling party in the state, Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), AIMIM, and BJP, which recently bagged the Dubbak Assembly seat in the recently concluded by-polls.The BJP has shuttled a battery of leaders to Hyderabad as it readies to fight regional player TRS and AIMIM. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, Union ministers Prakash Javadekar, Smriti Irani as well as party president J P Nadda have campaigned for the BJP in Hyderabad.The pitch for electioneering has gained momentum as BJP tries to flex its political muscle in the city amid criticism from TRS and AIMIM, who have snubbed BJP’s efforts.Telangana CM KCR on Saturday slammed BJP for preaching the state on per capita income despite lagging behind in Uttar Pradesh (presently ruled by the BJP) and Maharashtra (previously ruled by the BJP).“Today UP CM has come. Our state was at 13th position 6 years ago, in terms of per capita income. It now stands fifth. UP stands 28th or 29th and they’ll teach us! Yesterday Maharashtra’s ex-CM came. They are ranked 10th and they will teach us - the one at fifth position,” KCR said.All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) leader Asaduddin Owaisi said on Saturday took a jibe at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), saying they have deployed so many leaders for campaigning “as if we are electing a Prime Minister”.Voting will be held in 150 wards in the GHMC polls on December 1 and the results will be declared on December 4.In the last GHMC election, the Telangana Rashtra Samithi won in 99 wards. AIMIM bagged 44, with the remaining seven wards won by other parties and Independents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ghmc-polls-amit-shah-holds-roadshow-in-hyderabad/story-ptVwEX0owBBofnTEv6yJnO.html
29-11-2020||India||DRDO ready with anti-drone system for armed forces, PM Modi to have drone killer as part of his security detail||The Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO) has designated Bharat Electronics as the lead agency for development and production of much needed anti-drone system for the armed forces.It is understood that anti-drone systems are now a part of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s security detail at his residence and portable ones will be part of his car cavalcade. This has been made mandatory as there has been a drone threat since beginning of 2020. Pak has quietly moved 26/11 attacks accused Hafiz Saeed out of jail. He is home: IntelWith Pakistan based terrorists using Chinese made commercial drones to cart weapon payloads and drugs across the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir and international border, the DRDO has been able to successfully develop passive and active anti-drone technology to either disable or shoot down enemy drones.Pak’s million mutinies, ghosts and Doval’s doctrine of ‘defensive offence’It is understood that DRDO Chief Satheesh Reddy will write to the Indian armed forces soon informing them about the production of indigenous anti-drone system. The anti-drone system, which was deployed during 2020 Republic and Independence Day, has a range of over two to three kilometres with radar capability to pick up the drone and then use frequencies to jam the unmanned aerial vehicle. The other developed option includes spotting the drone through radar and then targeting it by laser beam.Pak rubs it in, lets Lashkar front sked prayer meeting for 10 terroristsSince 2019, Pakistan based groups have launched serial drone sorties across the IB in Punjab for delivering weapons and drugs to revive militancy in the border state. The same modus operandi is being used across the IB and LoC in Jammu and Kashmir. Commercially available Chinese drones can carry upto 10 kilograms of weapons and drug payloads.While the DRDO has developed the system, the Indian private sector along with the security agencies have also been able to concurrently developed anti-drone system. The system has been tested on the LoC and has been able to successfully repel the aerial threat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drdo-ready-with-anti-drone-system-for-armed-forces-pm-modi-to-have-drone-killer-as-part-of-his-security-detail/story-ZzSLytENkCubX9CuP0XV7N.html
29-11-2020||India||Turkey’s new virus figures confirm experts’ worst fears||When Turkey changed the way it reports daily Covid-19 infections, it confirmed what medical groups and opposition parties have long suspected — that the country is faced with an alarming surge of cases that is fast exhausting the Turkish health system.In an about-face, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s government this week resumed reporting all positive coronavirus tests — not just the number of patients being treated for symptoms — pushing the number of daily cases to above 30,000. With the new data, the country jumped from being one of the least-affected countries in Europe to one of the worst-hit.That came as no surprise to the Turkish Medical Association, which has been warning for months that the government’s previous figures were concealing the graveness of the spread and that the lack of transparency was contributing to the surge. The group maintains, however, that the ministry’s figures are still low compared with its estimate of at least 50,000 new infections per day.No country can report exact numbers on the spread of the disease since many asymptomatic cases go undetected, but the previous way of counting made Turkey look relatively well-off in international comparisons, with daily new cases far below those reported in European countries including Italy, Britain and France.That changed Wednesday as Turkey’s daily caseload almost quadrupled from about 7,400 to 28,300.The country’s hospitals are overstretched, medical staff are burned out and contract tracers, who were once credited for keeping the outbreak under check, are struggling to track transmissions, Sebnem Korur Fincanci, who heads the association, told The Associated Press.“It’s the perfect storm,” said Fincanci, whose group has come under attack from Erdogan and his nationalist allies for questioning the government’s figures and its response to the outbreak.Even though the health minister has put the ICU bed occupancy rate at 70%, Ebru Kiraner, who heads the Istanbul-based Intensive Care Nurses’ Association, says intensive care unit beds in Istanbul’s hospitals are almost full, with doctors scrambling to find room for critically ill patients.There is a shortage of nurses and the existing nursing staff is exhausted, she added.“ICU nurses have not been able to return to their normal lives since March,” she told the AP. “Their children have not seen their mask-less faces in months.”Erdogan said, however, there was “no problem” concerning the hospitals’ capacities. He blamed the surge on the public’s failure to wear masks, which is mandatory, and to abide by social distancing rules.Demonstrating the seriousness of the outbreak, Turkey last month suspended leave for health care workers and temporarily banned resignations and early retirements during the pandemic. Similar bans were also put in place for three months in March.The official daily Covid-19 deaths have also steadily risen to record numbers, reaching 13,373 on Saturday with 182 new deaths, in a reversal of fortune for the country that had been praised for managing to keep fatalities low. But those record numbers remain disputed too.Istanbul Mayor Ekrem Imamoglu said 186 people had died of infectious diseases in the city on Nov. 22 — a day on which the government announced just 139 Covid-19 deaths for the whole of the country. The mayor also said around 450 burials are taking place daily in the city of 15 million compared with the average 180-200 recorded in November the previous year.“We can only beat the outbreak through a process that is transparent,” said Imamoglu, who is from Turkey’s main opposition party. “Russia and Germany have announced a high death toll. Did Germany lose its shine? Did Russia collapse?”Health Minister Fahrettin Koca has rejected Imamoglu’s claims, saying: “I want to underline that all of the figures I am providing are accurate.”Last week, Erdogan announced a series of restrictions in a bid to contain the contagion without impacting the already weakened economy or business activity. Opposition parties denounced them as “half-baked.” He introduced curfews for the first time since June, but limited them to weekend evenings, closed down restaurants and cafes except for takeout services and restricted the opening hours of malls, shops and hairdressers.Both Fincanci and Kiraner said the measures don’t go far enough to contain transmissions.“We need a total lockdown of at least two weeks, if not four weeks which science considers to be the most ideal amount,” Fincanci said.Koca has said that the number of seriously ill patients and fatalities is on the rise and said some cities including Istanbul and Izmir are experiencing their “third peak.” Turkey would wait, however, for two weeks to see the results of the weekend curfews and other restrictions before considering stricter lockdowns, he said.Meanwhile, the country has reached an agreement to receive 50 million doses of the vaccine developed by Chinese pharmaceutical company SinoVac and hopes to begin administering it to medical staff and the chronically ill next month. It is also in talks to purchase the vaccine developed by Pfizer in cooperation with the BioNTech pharmaceutical company. A Turkish-developed vaccine is scheduled to be ready to use in April.Erdogan said he had also spoken with Russia’s president, Vladimir Putin, over the possibility of procuring a vaccine developed by that country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/turkey-s-new-virus-figures-confirm-experts-worst-fears/story-zge1IlVdDVutIGncoI4DAL.html
29-11-2020||India||Farmer unions reject Centre’s offer of early talks to resolve deadlock over farm laws||A joint forum of about 30 farmer unions rejected the Centre’s offer of early talks to resolve deadlock over farm laws on Sunday. These farmer bodies said that the protesting farmers will only engage the government in the absence of any pre-condition.The joint forum also said that protest venue for thousands of farmers is no longer an issue as they have started an indefinite dharna on roads leading to Delhi.Earlier on Saturday, Union home minister Amit Shah appealed to farmers and said his government was ready to hold talks. “I appeal to the protesting farmers that the Union government is ready to hold talks. The agriculture minister has invited them on December 3 for a discussion. The government is ready to deliberate on every problem and demand of farmers,” he had said.Thousands of farmers hailing from Punjab and Haryana have taken to the streets and highways in the last few weeks protesting the three agricultural legislations, stating that the laws will reduce their earnings in the market and give more power to corporations.On Friday afternoon, the Delhi Police had agreed to let in the protesters, provided they move to the Burari ground, but not before a series of clashes between farmers and the police who used tear gas shells, lathis and water cannons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmer-unions-reject-centre-s-offer-of-early-talks-to-resolve-deadlock-over-farm-laws/story-Rng0SGUBuvGaEIYBZapvCO.html
29-11-2020||India||‘Baseless’: Taloja Jail on allegations of not providing sipper, straw to Stan Swamy||Tribal rights activist Father Stan Swamy, an accused in the alleged Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, is being provided sipper and other facilities in the Taloja prison from the day second of his arrest, a senior prison official said on Sunday.Swamy, 83, who is suffering from various health issues including Parkinson’s disease, was arrested on October 8 and has been lodged at the Taloja prison near here in Navi Mumbai.Talking to PTI, a senior prison official said the allegation that prison authorities were not providing sipper and straw to Swamy were “baseless”.“Not just sipper and straw, we are providing him other facilities too like wheelchair, walking stick, walker, and two attendants were also provided to him,” the official said.“We know he is a patient, he suffers from Parkinsons disease. Why would we not provide him things which he requires,” the official said.Meanwhile, some Delhi-based lawyers have also sent straws and sippers for the activist in a parcel along with a letter to the Taloja prison on Saturday.Also Read | Disability rights organization to send sipper to Taloja jail for Stan Swamy“As lawyers, we were pained by the situation as all jail manuals provide for special facilities for inmates who have special needs,” said Nandita Rao, one of the advocates who have signed the letter sent to the jail. “We felt if someone does not even have a right to dignified drinking water in judicial custody, then the basic values of our Constitution and humanity are being disrespected,” she added.Swamy had earlier filed a plea in a special NIA court here, seeking that he be provided a straw and a sipper.The court on Thursday rejected his previous application seeking a direction to the National Investigation Agency to return the straw and sipper allegedly seized from him during the arrest.Swamy had said he needs a straw and sipper as he has trouble eating and drinking because his hands shake due to the Parkinson’s disease.On Thursday, the National Investigation Agency, which is probing the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links’ case, denied that it had confiscated Swamy’s straw and sipper.Swamy’s lawyer Sharif Shaikh then filed a fresh application to obtain these things, besides winter clothing.The activist on Thursday also filed a bail plea in the special NIA court.As per the NIA, Swamy was involved in the activities of the banned CPI (Maoist), and had received funds through an associate for furthering Maoist agenda.He was also the convener of the Persecuted Prisoners Solidarity Committee (PPSC), a frontal organisation of the CPI(Maoist), the NIA claimed.Swamy in his bail plea denied the allegations and said that the prosecution had failed to bring on record any evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/baseless-taloja-jail-on-allegations-of-not-providing-sipper-straw-to-stan-swamy/story-t9cyNLaJIEPkBUg4xUmvAL.html
29-11-2020||India||Punjab farmer unions meet to decide on Centre’s early talks offer||Representatives of various farmer unions from Punjab are holding a meeting near the national capital to take a decision on an offer of early talks made by the Centre provided the protesting farmers move to a designated site in Burari in the capital.In a communication sent late Saturday night to all 32 farmer unions camping in and around Delhi for the last two days, the Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla stated that a high-powered group of ministers is ready to hold talks with a delegation of farmers. The message further stated that the union authorities would meet them as early as a day after all the protesting farmers move to the earmarked Burari site in Delhi.The proposed meeting would be held at the Vigyan Bhawan complex if the farmers accept the condition laid out by the government for early talks. The talks were otherwise originally scheduled to take place on December 3.The Farmers body said that no formal invite was given to farmers for advancing the talks to December 1 from December 3. It confirmed that the letter from the home secretary received yesterday, offering to advance the date of talks, was the last communication received on the matter.Joginder Singh Ughrahan, president of the Ughrahan faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), confirmed receiving an official letter of talks from the centre government.“All unions are gathering near Bahadurgarh in Haryana’s Jhajjar district. As of now, a caravan of our activists is stationed at the Delhi border. We could not move to enter the national capital due to the huge rush of farmers heading to Delhi for protests,” he said.Also Read: PM Modi backs farm laws, dispels concerns in Mann Ki Baat addressGeneral secretary of Dakonda faction of the BKU, Jagmohan Singh, said all 32 farmer unions of Punjab are united and any further course of protest would be decided with unanimity.Meanwhile, an office-bearer of one of the BKU factions said that a section of farmers has a strong reservation against holding protests at Burari as it is associated with the Nirankari sect. The leader said the unions had no plans to vacate the roads leading to Delhi, and the blockades on Bahadurgarh and Chandigarh highways may continue till Sunday night.“The national convention of farmers had decided to hold a protest at Jantar Mantar. But the central government is insisting that we move to Burari. But as a section of Sikh farmers is against this venue, we will try to convince them,” said a senior functionary of a union.Also Read: Protesting farmers not ‘properly understood’ new farm laws, says Niti Aayog memberHowever, sources said a vast open space spread over 23 hectares in Burari is actually owned by the Delhi Development Authority (DDA).“It is popularly known as Nirankari Samagam Ground but the sect is among several other organisations that hold programmes at the site due to spacious vehicular parking and the capacity to accommodate large gatherings. Jantar Mantar is located in the heart of the city and the presence of hundreds of protestors would jeopardise the traffic management,” said an official on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-farmer-unions-meet-to-decide-on-centre-s-early-talks-offer/story-R5vLihKBJW8tNBpNDOp4VP.html
29-11-2020||India||2022 UP polls in mind, BJP gives Sunil Bansal two deputies from RSS||After appointing veteran Radha Mohan Singh as the Uttar Pradesh (UP) in-charge, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leadership has now appointed two old Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) hands as the party’s co-general secretary (organisations) in the state. These new appointees, Karmvir and Bhawani Singh who would be based in Varanasi and Meerut --- both strategically key places in east and west UP --- would help BJP general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal, who has been playing a crucial role in the party’s organisational expansion in the state, BJP leaders said. The appointments had been made keeping 2022 UP assembly elections in mind, party leaders said. Pradhuman, the organisation secretary of Awadh region, has been moved to central office in Delhi though his replacement in UP hasn’t been announced as yet. Similarly, organisation secretary in Varanasi and Gorakhpur has been sent to Bihar as general secretary (organisation), a posting that assumes significance as the BJP has emerged as the big brother over Janata Dal (United), its ally, which till now held more seats in Bihar than the BJP. BJP leaders said that the post of regional organisation secretary had been renamed as co-general secretary (organisation) in the state.After its success in the recent UP bypolls, the BJP has now set its sights on winning the graduate and teachers’ constituency elections. Polling for these elections which the BJP is actively contesting for the first time, would take place on December 1. The BJP is organising ‘matdaata sammelan’ (voters’ meet) to galvanise the teachers’ community as well as graduates to vote in favour of the party. “All appointments being made by the party are to further strengthen it in UP, where it is widely anticipated that the Congress would ally with several smaller parties to take on the BJP. So the party is preparing itself ahead of 2022. The Bihar polls have conclusively established that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s popularity remains undiminished and riding on his charisma as well as the governance model provided by chief minister Yogi Adityanath, we again hope to overtake the opposition by some distance,” a BJP leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2022-up-polls-in-mind-bjp-gives-sunil-bansal-two-deputies-from-rss/story-ZxrKjqCt956O0h5jbtL1cP.html
29-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Rahul Gandhi says, ‘In BJP’s vision, Adivasis and Dalits should not have access to education’ and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘In BJP’s vision, Adivasis and Dalits should not have access to education’: Rahul GandhiCongress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday slammed the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government at the Centre, claiming that the central government has made sure that marginalised students - those belonging to Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe - don’t have access to education. Read more ‘Masks will stay even after we get Covid-19 vaccine’: ICMR chiefThe health protocols put in place to tackle the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) will stay for a long time and people will have to keep wearing masks even after a vaccine is available, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) chief professor Balram Bhargava has said. Read moreUP Police file first FIR under ordinance against forced religious conversionsHours after Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel approved an ordinance promulgated by the state against forced and dishonest conversions, the police registered the first case under it against a Muslim man in Bareilly district on Saturday night, senior officials said. Read more‘Farm reforms have given new rights, opportunities to farmers,’ says PM Modi amid protestsPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday reassured farmers on the recently enacted farm laws as he said that with the latest reforms in the agriculture sector, farmers have got new opportunities. Read more Pak spy drone spotted near border in Jammu, retreats after army opens fireA Pakistani drone was spotted by the Border Security Forces (BSF) in the Arnia sector along the 198 km long international border in Jammu district on Saturday evening. Read more‘Feel for the captain’: Mohammad Kaif feels Virat Kohli is hard done by as selectors ‘missed a trick’Former batsman Mohammad Kaif reckons the BCCI selectors missed a trick in picking India’s limited-overs squad for the tour of Australia. Kaif’s assessment comes after India took a 66-run beating in the first ODI with the lack of a sixth bowling option hurting the bowling attack. Read moreLate Wajid Khan’s wife reveals pressure from in-laws to convert: ‘Couldn’t be a family due to his and his family’s religious fanaticism’Late music composer Wajid Khan’s wife, clinical hypnotherapist Kamalrukh Khan, has shared a long note revealing how her in-laws were harassing her for not converting to Islam. Read moreWatch: ‘You will be renamed, not Hyderabad’: Owaisi’s retort to Yogi’s Bhagyanagar pitch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-rahul-gandhi-says-in-bjp-s-vision-adivasis-and-dalits-should-not-have-access-to-education-and-all-the-latest-news/story-3cT7HFs4B1vTJtvKC3YOqM.html
29-11-2020||India||Mann Ki Baat: PM Modi backs farm laws, reaches out to agri community||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday sought to dispel concerns about the recently passed farm laws and cited an example of a farmer who used the new law to his advantage.In his monthly radio broadcast, Man Ki Baat the Prime Minister said, “New dimensions are being added to agriculture and its related activities in India. The agriculture reforms in the past few days have also now opened new doors of possibilities for our farmers.”The Prime Minister said decades-old demands of farmers were met with Parliament passing laws aimed at liberalizing the farm sector after rigorous brainstorming. “These reforms have not only broken shackles of farmers but have also given new rights and opportunities for them. These rights started mitigating problems that were being faced by farmers in a short span of time,” he said. The PM’s remarks came against the backdrop of the ongoing agitation by a large section of farmers in Punjab and Haryana, who have marched to the Capital in protest against the laws. The Prime Minister went on to cite the example of a Maharashtra-based farmer, Jitendra Bhoiji, who used one of the new laws to recover money owed to him. The PM said after he failed to get the amount even four months after selling his produce, Bhoiji got his money back using a provision of the law that specifies it is mandatory to pay farmers within three days of purchasing the produce.“If the payment is not made the, the farmer can make a complaint. Under the law, there is a provision that the SDM of the area must address the complaint of the farmer within a month,” PM Modi said.The Prime Minister also cited the example of Mohammad Aslam in Rajasthan‘s Botton district, who is creating awareness among farmers by updating them about the day-to-day rates in the local mandis. Aslam is the CEO of a farm producers’ federation. A third example that the Prime Minister gave was that of Virendra Yadav, who returned from Australia to Haryana‘s Kaithal and has found a solution to farm stubble. Instead of burning stubble which causes immense damage to the air quality, Yadav has been selling the stubble to paper mills and agro energy plants, and has made profit in two years’ time.A large number of farmers are protesting against the government’s moves to open up agricultural markets in the country and bring sweeping reforms to the farm sector, which supports nearly half the population. Farmers have demanded a repeal of three laws enacted by Parliament in September which, together, allow agribusinesses to freely trade farm produce without restrictions, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales and lay down new rules for contract farming. Farmers say the reforms would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, erode their bargaining power and weaken the government’s minimum support price (MSP) system, which offers cultivators assured prices from the government, largely for wheat and rice. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and railways, food and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal held day-long negotiations on November 13 with leaders of several farmers’ groups in attempt to end over two months of a politically challenging agitation. The discussions were inconclusive, but both sides had agreed to continue negotiations in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-backs-farm-laws-dispels-concerns-in-mann-ki-baat-address/story-78SDt9HxD3Rr03R6ETTfmL.html
29-11-2020||India||Pak spy drone spotted near border in Jammu, retreats after army opens fire||A Pakistani drone was spotted by the Border Security Forces (BSF) in the Arnia sector along the 198 km long international border in Jammu district on Saturday evening. BSF inspector general NS Jamwal said that a few shots were fired by the BSF jawans at the spy drone after which it retreated towards the Pakistan side.Searches have been launched in the area for the drone.Of late, Pakistan has been using drones and trans-border tunnels to push armed terrorists, arms, ammunition and drugs to fuel terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir.The four Jaish terrorists killed at Ban toll plaza encounter near Nagrota on November 17 had used a 160 meter long trans-border tunnel in Samba sector to sneak into India.Also Read: India leases hi-tech US naval drones to boost surveillance, intelAs Pakistan is finding it difficult to send infiltrators and arms from the border fence or open stretches due to the alertness of BSF, it is moving to other methods like tunnels and drones,” a senior BSF officer had said.Another officer said Pakistan has increased its activity along the border in Jammu as it is unable to create any impact in Kashmir, where there is a heavy presence of army and central armed police forces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-spy-drone-spotted-near-border-in-jammu-retreats-after-army-opens-fire/story-H0pOx9YCdrIBYPwPxpjZcK.html
29-11-2020||India||Top runners brave pollution, pandemic in Delhi half marathon||Elite runners brushed off poor air quality and a surge in coronavirus cases Sunday in India’s capital for the Delhi Half Marathon, one of the country’s first major sporting events since the pandemic started.Forty-seven professional runners hit the 21-kilometre (13.1-mile) course in the men’s and women’s event, while amateur participants raced between Wednesday and Sunday to prevent overcrowding.The route was sprayed with chemicals to minimise the effect of Delhi’s annual toxic smog, which blankets the megacity in winter due to traffic and industrial pollution, crop stubble burning and cold temperatures.The air quality index -- which monitors tiny PM2.5 and PM10 particles that get into the bloodstream and vital organs -- was at 244 and in the “poor” category, the Central Pollution Control Board said Sunday.Doctors last week said it would be “suicidal” for runners to take part in the competition given the twin risks.Ethiopia’s Amdework Walelegn won the men’s race with a course record of 58.53 minutes with last year’s champion Andamlak Belihu just a second behind.The previous best was 59.06 set by Ethiopia’s Guye Adola in 2014.“The course was very good,” Walelegn said.“In earlier years there were a lot of U-turns, but this time it was flat and good to race on.”In the women’s race, Yalemzerf Yehualaw of Ethiopia won in 1.04.46 -- also a record -- with Kenya’s Ruth Chepngetich second.Avinash Sable, who has qualified for the Tokyo Olympics in 3000m steeplechase, was the top Indian finisher with a record national time of 1:00.30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-runners-brave-pollution-pandemic-in-delhi-half-marathon/story-HkLJ6kO0MMluvYbUwe2XQM.html
29-11-2020||India||Protesting farmers not ‘properly understood’ new farm laws, says Niti Aayog member||Niti Aayog Member (Agriculture) Ramesh Chand has said protesting farmers have not fully or properly understood the new farm laws, asserting that these legislations have potential to increase farm income in a big way. He further said that the motive of the three new farm laws is exactly the opposite of what the protesting farmers have understood. In an interview to PTI, Chand said, “The way, I am reading these farmers, who are protesting, it looks like that they have not fully or properly understood these three laws.” “If these new farm laws are allowed to be implemented, there are very high chances of big increase in income of the farmers and in many states, it may even double,” he said while replying to a question on whether the government is still confident of doubling farm income by 2022. Also Read | Amit Shah appeals to farmers as crisis persistsThe Narendra Modi-led NDA government has set a target of doubling farmers’ income by 2022. On September 27, President Ram Nath Kovind gave assent to the three farm bills -- The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020; The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020. Elaborating further on farmer contentions, the Niti Aayog member said protesting farmers are saying that the Essential Commodities Act (ECA) has been removed and full freedom has been given to stockists, black marketers, etc. “If you look at what actually has been done is, there is a modification done in the Essential Commodity Act. According to that modification, a criterion has been laid when Essential Commodities Act can be imposed, and that is if there is a 50 per cent increase in prices of cereals, oil seeds and pulses, then it can be imposed,” Chand explained. “Or if there is 100 per cent increase of price of onion and potato then Essential Commodities Act can be imposed,” he added. Citing an example, the Niti Aayog member said that on October 23, the Centre had invoked the Act when onion prices were rising. It was required, he said adding “states were told to put stock limit”.Similarly, allaying fears of protesting farmers about contract farming, he pointed out that there is a big difference between corporate farming and contract farming. “Corporate farming is not allowed in any states in India... and contract farming is already happening in many states and not even a single incidence has come where land of farmers has been taken over by private companies,” Chand said. The Niti Aayog member asserted that the new Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act has been tilted in favour of farmers. To a question on farm sector growth, Chand said,” In this fiscal year (2020-21), I expect the growth of agriculture to be slightly more than 3.5 per cent.” Agriculture and allied sector’s growth stood at 3.7 per cent during the 2019-20 fiscal year.Also Read |  Rahul Gandhi shares viral photo of farmers’ protest, says ‘this is very dangerous’ On frequent ban on exports of onion, he said whenever prices go beyond a band, the government intervenes and it happens everywhere in India, the US and the UK. Noting that prices are always maintained within a band, Chand said in some situation, the government protects interests of farmers by stopping imports, and sometimes, it protects interests of consumers by banning exports. “We can’t allow onion prices to go to Rs 100 that too when farmers are not selling onions. 60-70 per cent of onions reach market in the month of April and May and it does not reach market at this time,” he said. Chand argued it is not that by imposing ban on exports the government is doing something terribly wrong against the producers. “It is done only in a particular situation, never in normal situation,” he explained. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting against the three new laws. They say the intention of these laws is to dismantle the minimum support price system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protesting-farmers-not-properly-understood-new-farm-laws-says-niti-aayog-member/story-5XoPtuFcMl19vWvjwt2oSM.html
29-11-2020||India||‘In BJP’s vision, Adivasis and Dalits should not have access to education’: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday slammed the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government at the Centre, claiming that the central government has made sure that marginalised students - those belonging to Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe - don’t have access to education.“In BJP/RSS vision of India, Adivasis and Dalits should not have access to education. Stopping scholarships for SC-ST students is their way of ends justifying their means,” Gandhi tweeted. In BJP/RSS vision of India, Adivasis and Dalits should not have access to education.Stopping scholarships for SC-ST students is their way of ends justifying their means. pic.twitter.com/rnh31gZdmfGandhi’s tweet cited a report which said that scholarships for 60 lakh SC students is stuck due to end of central funding. The all India Post Matric Scholarship scheme for SCs gives financial assistance of about Rs 18,000 per annum to SC students upwards of class 11 and 12, in order to help them complete their education.The report stated that the scheme was pending Cabinet approval for nearly a year now and was also discussed in detail with Prime Minister Narendra Modi.The Congress leader, who has consistently attacked the government on his Twitter on topics ranging from economy to laws and policies, had recently said the Indian economy is in recession for the first time under PM Modi.Gandhi’s tweet came after data showed India’s gross domestic product or GDP contracted by 7.5 per cent in the July-September quarter after the economy shrank by a record 23.9 per cent in the last quarter. He also blamed the prime minister’s arrogance over the ongoing stir by farmer’s march over three agricultural reform legislations and said, “Our slogan was ‘Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan’, but today a soldier is standing against the farmer due to PM Modi’s arrogance. This is very dangerous.”He had also attacked the Centre over the farmers’ agitation and said, “The PM should have remembered that whenever the ego hits the truth, it is defeated. No government in the world can stop the farmers fighting the battle for truth. The Modi government has to accept the demands of the farmers and black laws will have to be withdrawn. This is only the beginning!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-bjp-s-vision-adivasis-and-dalits-should-not-have-access-to-education-rahul-gandhi/story-1h4cHzWjvAfzOy8uP4JJEI.html
29-11-2020||India||Odisha CM expels MLA from BJD for “anti-people” activities||Ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) president Naveen Patnaik on Sunday expelled Gopalpur MLA Pradeep Panigrahi from the regional party on charge of “anti- people” activities.An official release issued by the BJD said: “Pradeep Panigrahi, MLA Gopalpur is expelled from the primary membership of the party with immediate effect for his anti- people activities.” The three-time MLA and a former minister, is the first leader in the regional party who has been expelled on charge of “anti-people” activities, though many members in the past were removed from the BJD on “anti-party” charges.Though the BJD’s official order signed by its general secretary (Media Affair) Manas Ranjan Mangaraj mentioned Panigrahi’s “anti-people” activities, it was not clarified the nature of the offence he allegedly indulged in.Also Read |  ‘Odisha IFS officer who took 20 chartered flights during lockdown arrested’: Vigilance officialsThe party action against Panigrahi came after the anti-corruption vigilance wing established his alleged association with suspended Indian Forest Service Officer (IFS) Abhay Kant Pathak and his son Akash Kumar Pathak.The father-son duo has been arrested and sent to jail on charge of amassing huge properties in a disproportionate asset case. Panigrahi had allegedly helped Pathak’s son Akash in a job fraud.Pathak’s son has also been accused of cheating youths from Ganjam district by luring them with jobs in a reputed company. Panigrahi allegedly helped Akash in the cheating incidents, sources in the vigilance said.Panigrahi was not immediately available for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-cm-expels-mla-from-bjd-for-anti-people-activities/story-lNID5lgggxjhq3Chrt2EbK.html
29-11-2020||India||Commuters moving towards Delhi face road blockade as farmers’ protest continues||Commuters headed towards the national capital from other states on Sunday said they are facing problems due to road blockade at the Singhu border (Delhi-Haryana border).“We are facing many problems due to the protest. There is no vehicle for steady communication,” said a commuter.Another commuter said that people are forced to walk towards their destination due to the road blockade.“I have walked for around five to six kilometers. We do not have any conveyance soo it is very problematic for the commuters,” he added. Also Read | Farmers continue to camp at Delhi’s bordersMeanwhile, farmers protesting against the farm laws stay put at the Tikri border amid police deployment. The government has given permission to the agitating farmers to hold their protest at Nirankari Samagam Ground in Burari.On the other hand, security has been beefed up at the Singhu border (Delhi-Haryana border) as farmers’ protest continues, some protesters are expected to conduct a meeting at 11 am on Sunday to discuss their next strategy.Farmers at the border decided yesterday that they’ll continue their protest here and won’t go anywhere else.The security has also been tightened on the Delhi-Haryana border as farmers, who are opposing the farm laws, stayed put at the Delhi border points.The farmers further said the government should come forward with an “open heart” and not with a “condition”.The Delhi administration has allotted the Burari ground to the farmers for protesting. While some hundred shifted there on Saturday morning after they were allowed to enter Delhi through the Tikri border, thousand others are demanding that they be allowed to enter the heart of the city.Also Read | Northern Railways short terminates, diverts trains due to farmers’ stirThe Home Minister said that the Centre was ready to deliberate on every problem and demand of the farmers as soon as they move to the ground allocated by the Delhi Police.The farmers of Kisan Union Amristar said that if the government really wished to hear their problems, they can visit the farmers at the Singhu border.The farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, embarked on ‘Dilli Chalo’ march to protest against the three new farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/commuters-moving-towards-delhi-face-road-blockade-as-farmers-protest-continues/story-H0lgDPpRwRy1QR2ZPgCSmN.html
29-11-2020||India||‘Farm reforms have given new rights, opportunities to farmers,’ says PM Modi amid protests||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday reassured farmers on the recently enacted farm laws as he said that with the latest reforms in the agriculture sector, farmers have got new opportunities.“Parliament has recently passed farm reform laws after rigorous brainstorming. These reforms have not only broken shackles of farmers but have also given new rights and opportunities to them,” PM Narendra Modi said during Mann Ki Baat.“The demands made by farmers over the years, which every government had only promised to meet so far, have finally been met with the new reforms,” PM Modi also said.Also Read | PM Modi dedicates Mann Ki Baat to importance of culture, says it acts like emotional recharge during crisisThe Prime Minister also cited an example of a Maharashtra-based farmer Jitendra Bhoiji who used the new law to recover money that was owed to him. The PM Modi said after he failed to get the total amount that was agreed to even four months after selling his produce, Jitendra got his money back using the provision of the new law that specifies that it is mandatory to pay the farmers within three days of purchasing the produce.“ If the payment is not made the the farmer can make a complaint. Under the law there is a provision that the SDM of the area must address the complaint of the farmer within a month,” the PM said.When the farmers have the power of such a law the problem was bound to get resolved. He filed a complaint and got his dues within a few days. The knowledge of law is important and it is important to have the right information,” he said.Also Read | ‘New Zealand MP took oath in Sanskrit’: PM Modi says spread of language fills Indians with pridePM Modi further called on farmers to stay away from rumours and false information as he said , “the right information is a great support for every person in every sector.”The comments come as farmers from Punjab and Haryana are protesting against the farm laws. They have been camping in and around Delhi demanding that the laws should be taken back by the Centre.Farmers are protesting against the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Service Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Opposition parties which are supporting the protests have criticised the laws as “anti-farmer” while the government says that the three laws will do away with middlemen, enabling farmers to sell their produce in the commercial markets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/agri-reforms-have-given-new-rights-opportunities-to-farmers-pm-modi/story-qY9tFHE2p8Tv05ZEL3erLP.html
29-11-2020||India||‘Sharing a good news’: PM Modi spotlights return of statue on Mann Ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday talked about the return of an ancient statue of Goddess Annapurna from Canada to India as he addressed the nation on his monthly radio address ‘Mann Ki Baat’.“Today I want to share a good news with you all. Every Indian will be proud to know that a very old statue of Goddess Annapurna is coming back from Canada to India,” PM Modi said.Emphasising on the goddess’s connection with Varanasi, PM Modi said, “Mata Annapurna has a very special relationship with Kashi. Now the return of his idol is pleasant for all of us. Like the statue of Mata Annapurna, many of our heritage has been victims of international gangs.”माता अन्नपूर्णा का काशी से बहुत ही विशेष संबंध है।अब उनकी प्रतिमा का वापस आना हम सभी के लिए सुखद है।माता अन्नपूर्णा की प्रतिमा की तरह ही हमारी विरासत की अनेक अनमोल धरोहरें, अंतरराष्ट्रीय गिरोहों का शिकार होती रही हैं।- पीएम @narendramodi #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/qFRG2FBPWCAlso read | ‘New Zealand MP took oath in Sanskrit’: PM Modi says spread of language fills Indians with pride“A coincidence is also associated with the return of the statue of Mata Annapurna that World Heritage Week has been celebrated a few days ago. World Heritage Week provides a great opportunity for culture lovers to go back to the old times, explore the important points of their history,” PM Modi said.The statue, dating back to the 18th century, was handed over by interim president and vice-chancellor of the University of Regina, Thomas Chase, to India’s high commissioner to Ottawa, Ajay Bisaria, in a virtual event earlier this month that was also attended by officials from Global Affairs Canada and Canada Border Service Agency.The statue is originally from Varanasi and was part of the university’s collection in its MacKenzie Art Gallery.According to a release from the Indian high commission, the university recently discovered that the Annapurna statue may have been acquired “under suspicious circumstances and did not conform to current principles of ethical acquisition”.‘Mann ki Baat’ is the Prime Minister’s monthly radio programme addressed to the nation, which is broadcasted on the last Sunday of every month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/our-precious-heritage-victim-of-international-gangs-pm-modi-in-mann-ki-baat/story-xtfQrqHgCC8c7Fion0fSRK.html
29-11-2020||India||Bihar polls: JD(U) assessment says LJP hit its chances in 36-40 seats||A preliminary internal assessment by the ruling Janata Dal (United), or JD(U), identified former ally Lok Janshakti Party (LJP)’s decision to field candidates against it as the biggest factor behind its below-par performance in the recently concluded assembly elections in Bihar, according to a party leader aware of the matter. While the JD(U) fought 115 of the 243 seats in the state and won just 43 of them, the LJP contested a total of 143 seats, including all those contested by chief minister Nitish Kumar’s party. According to analysts, the LJP, a former constituent of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in the state that decided to go it alone, made dent in the JD(U) vote share, though it ended up winning just one seat. However, the NDA retained power in a close contest, winning 125 seats in the state where the majority mark is 122. The BJP alone won 74 seats while two smaller allies got four each. The opposition alliance of the Congress, Rashtriya Janata Dal and Left parties won 110 seats. According to the JD(U)’s preliminary assessment, factionism, weak organisation in some places, lack of coordination with the BJP, and a perceived failure to counter the RJD’s promise of a million jobs also played their part in its poor show, said an office-bearer of the party, requesting anonymity. The party’s senior office-bearers and leaders who interacted with workers as part of the assessment drive got a unanimous view that the LJP hampered JD (U)’s prospect in at least 36-40 seats. “It damaged us on these seats by ensuring split of the NDA votes. Had this not been the case, JD (U) today would have got no less than 70 seats. The damage was more pronounced in constituencies which went to poll in the first phase of elections,” said a JD (U) functionary, requesting anonymity. Elections were held in Bihar in three phases (October 28, November 3 and November 7). Results came out on November 10. The JD (U) won 71 seats in 2015, 115 in 2010 and 88 in 2005. The JD(U) leader, involved in the assessment, said the party has taken the outcome as a wake-up call with its state president, Bashistha Narain Singh, setting his eyes on revamping the state unit. “The party might go for an organisational revamp soon,” said the senior leader.The assessment found that a section of disgruntled leaders, particularly those who did not get tickets, as acted against party’s interest and that the JD(U) leadership failed to neutralise their influence. “Action will be also taken against more leaders who worked against party’s interest,” the leader said.Another reason pointed out during the review was the weak organisational structure at ground level. “All along it was claimed that the JD (U) has a strong ground level organisation, but this was not seen at several assembly seats,” said the JD (U) leader. Several party workers also complained about lack of co-ordination between the BJP and JD(U), according to XXX.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-polls-jd-u-assessment-says-ljp-hit-its-chances-in-36-40-seats/story-BjuQFJ8jGx2lfC8XiWbxIK.html
29-11-2020||India||PM Modi dedicates Mann Ki Baat to importance of culture, says it acts like emotional recharge during crisis||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday addressed the nation through ‘Mann Ki Baat’, where he talked about how culture helps people overcome the trauma of a crisis. “Every Indian would feel proud to know that an ancient idol of Devi Annapurna is being brought back from Canada to India. Almost 100 years ago in 1913, this idol was stolen from a temple in Varanasi and smuggled out of the country,” PM Modi said as he began his address.“This coincided with Heritage Week which provides the culture enthusiasts an opportunity to look back into the past and discover the important phases of history. Despite the Covid-19 crisis, we saw people celebrating the Heritage Week in innovative ways,” he added.The Prime Minister further said that culture is of great use during crisis, and it acts as emotional recharge.“India’s culture and scripture have always been a centre of attraction for the entire world. Some people came to India in search of them and stayed here for life. While some returned to their countries as cultural ambassadors of India,” PM Modi said on Mann Ki Baat.He then shared the story of a Jonas Masetti, who is is giving lessons on Vedanta and Bhagavad Gita in Brazil.“I got to know about the work of Jonas Masetti, who is also known as ‘Vishvanath’. Jonas gives lessons on Vedanta and Gita in Brazil. He runs an organisation called ‘Vishvavidya’ which is located in hills of Petrópolis about an hour’s driver from Rio De Janeiro,” said PM Modi.He added, “After completing mechanical engineering, Jonas worked for his stock market company. Later he was attracted towards Indian culture, especially towards Vedanta. He studied Vendanta in India &spent 4 yrs at Arsha Vidya Gurukulam in Coimbatore. I congratulate Jonas for his efforts.”Earlier on November 17, PM Modi had invited suggestions from the people, for the 71st edition of the programme.“Mann ki Baat” is the Prime Minister’s monthly radio programme addressed to the nation, which is broadcasted on the last Sunday of every month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-dedicates-mann-ki-baat-to-importance-of-culture-says-it-acts-like-emotional-recharge-during-crisis/story-tZO0nZH9kNlBqpmP4FIb4N.html
29-11-2020||India||PM Modi addresses Mann Ki Baat. Click here to watch live||Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the nation through the 71st edition of his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat on Sunday.On November 17, PM Modi had invited suggestions from the people about topics for his programme.“This month’s #MannKiBaat is on the 29th. I have already received many interesting inputs and anecdotes about inspiring life journeys. Keep sharing your thoughts on NaMo App, MyGov or record your message on 1800-11-7800,” he had tweeted.Watch Mann Ki Baat live here:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-addresses-mann-ki-baat-click-here-to-watch-live/story-T068fbUKdOwK8Bno450p1H.html
29-11-2020||India||Eight states/UTs largely contribute to India’s new Covid-19 cases: Data||India’s daily new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases are being largely reported from just eight states and Union Territories (UTs), according to the government data.The states that contribute maximum number of daily new cases are Maharashtra, Delhi, Kerala, West Bengal , Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, and Chhattisgarh.Maharashtra leads the tally with 6,185 new Covid-19 cases, according to data on Saturday. Delhi has recorded 5,482 cases, while Kerala follows with 3,966 new cases, according to the data released by the Union ministry of health and family welfare.The national recovery rate has improved and jumped to 93.68%, with total recovered cases in India being 87.59 lakhs (8,759,969) currently.About 77% of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 10 States and UTs. According to the health ministry data, Delhi has reported the maximum number of single day recoveries with 5,937 newly discharged cases, followed by 4,544 people having recovered in Kerala, and 4,089 in Maharashtra.Similar pattern is observed in reporting of deaths due to Covid-19 in the country. As per government data, maximum number of Covid-19-related deaths currently are also being reported from 10 states and UTs.Close to 78% of the 494 case fatalities reported in the past 24 hours are concentrated in these 10 states and UTs.The states are Delhi, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Haryana, Punjab, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh. Delhi, with 89 deaths, reported maximum new Covid-19 fatalities. Maharashtra on Saturday was a close second with 88 deaths reported in a single day, followed by West Bengal with 52 deaths.Covid-19 testing in country has gone up tremendously, and the number of tests per million population is now more than 100,000 tests per million.As of Saturday, India’s test per million population stands at 100,159. It stood at just over 77,000 at the end of October, as per union health ministry’s data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eight-states-uts-largely-contribute-to-india-s-new-covid-19-cases-data/story-1BwigdvEXsOQfNZBHQnOpJ.html
29-11-2020||India||GHMC polls: ‘Only Trump is left’, Owaisi takes a dig at BJP campaign||The campaigning for upcoming election for Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) is seeing some interesting remarks. The local body election is scheduled for December 1.All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) leader Asaduddin Owaisi said on Saturday took a jibe at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), saying they have deployed so many leaders for campaigning “as if we are electing a Prime Minister”.“It doesn’t look like a Hyderabad election, it’s as if we’re electing a Prime Minister in place of Narendra Modi. I was at a rally in Karwan and said that everyone has been called here, a child said they should have called Trump too. He was right, only Trump (US President Donald Trump) is left,” Owaisi said while campaigning for his party’s candidate, according to news agency ANI.The GHMC election is witnessing a triangular contest between the ruling party in the state, Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), AIMIM, and BJP, which recently bagged the Dubbak Assembly seat in the recently concluded by-polls.The BJP is undertaking hectic poll campaigns in the city and has roped in several high profile leaders. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, Union ministers Prakash Javadekar, Smriti Irani as well as party president J P Nadda have campaigned for the BJP in Hyderabad. Elections to the 150-member GHMC are scheduled to be held on December 1 and the counting of votes will take place on December 4.The campaigning for the civic body polls is ending on Sunday.Home minister Amit Shah will hold a roadshow today, on the last day of campaigning, appealing to the people in Hyderabad to vote for Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ghmc-polls-only-trump-is-left-owaisi-takes-a-dig-at-bjp-campaign/story-tJC4AiqrSrFFRwIKoP7jXK.html
29-11-2020||India||MP loses 26 tigers in 2020; govt says birth rate more than deaths||Madhya Pradesh, which is known as the ‘tiger state’ of India, has lost 26 striped animals so far this year, as per the National Tiger Conservation Authority.Reacting to it, Madhya Pradesh Forest Minister Vijay Shah told PTI that the average death rate of tigers was less compared to their birth rate in the state in last six years.According to the National Tiger Conservation Authoritys (NTCA) website, out of the 26 tiger deaths reported since April this year, MP lost 21 felines inside the tiger reserves, including 10 in the Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve.No tiger death was reported in the first three months of this year, as per the data.In 2019, the state lost 28 tigers while three cases of seizures of body parts due to poaching were also reported.Karnataka, which is on the second position in the number of tigers in the country, registered eight deaths and two seizures of tiger body parts this year, as per the data.Also Read |  In a first-of-its-kind experiment, Maharashtra to release tigress captured for killing human, livestock back in the wildThe southern state lost 12 big cats last year.“Right now, MP has 124 tiger cubs. The cubs were not counted during the last census (in 2018). In the next count, we are going to have more than 600 tigers,” Shah said.“We have more tigers than the area for them. Take the example of Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve-it has 125 tigers whereas it has the territory to house only 90,” he said.The minister attributed the big number of tiger deaths in Bandhavgarh to the territorial fight among the big cats for space and dominance.Earlier, MP had lost the ‘tiger state’ tag to Karnataka in the all India tiger estimation exercise for 2010, primarily due to alleged poaching in the Panna Tiger Reserve.That time, MP had 257 tigers compared to 300 in Karnataka.In the 2014 tiger census, MP slipped to no.3 position in the country with 308 striped animals after Uttarakhand (340) and Karnataka (408).However, MP regained the tag in the 2018 census with 526 big cats, two more than in Karnataka.Wildlife activist Ajay Dubey said Madhya Pradesh lacks a special tiger protection force.Also Read | NTCA approves release of tigress Avni’s cub into the wild: Maharashtra forest department“We have filed a petition in the high court for the formation of the special force which is pending. Karnataka has such a special force, thus tigers there are protected,” he said.The Centre in 2006 asked states to form the special force and offered to bear its expenditure, but MP has not formed it, he noted.Karnataka has five tiger reserves and the number of striped animals there (as per the last count) was just two less than Madhya Pradesh, which has around six tiger reserves.“MP should learn from this,” he said.A tiger was allegedly killed and buried in Shahdol district earlier this month, he said, noting that some people have been arrested in the case.The recovery of a severed tiger head in the Panna Tiger Reserve last month suggests that poachers are operating in the wildlife areas, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-loses-26-tigers-in-2020-govt-says-birth-rate-more-than-deaths/story-9Vm3ZevVXOhjiyVJIc26CP.html
29-11-2020||India||UP Police file first FIR under ordinance against forced religious conversions||Hours after Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel approved an ordinance promulgated by the state against forced and dishonest conversions, the police registered the first case under it against a Muslim man in Bareilly district on Saturday night, senior officials said.Avinash Chandra, additional director general (ADG), Bareilly zone, confirmed that the first information report, or FIR, was registered at Devraniya police station of Bareilly. He said a Hindu man of Sharifnagar village accused a Muslim man of mounting pressure on his daughter to convert her to Islam.He said the complainant alleged that the Muslim man knows to his daughter since her college days and that he has been troubling the woman and her family members for the past few months.The FIR, a copy of which is in HT’s possession, said the accused hurled abusive remarks and threatened the family with dire consequences on facing opposition to his advances for religion conversion of the woman. Another Bareilly police official said the woman and the accused are from the same village -- they are not married --- and the incident has impacted communal harmony in the locality. He said the accused has been booked under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 504 (for insulting a person) and 506 (for criminal intimidation), and the section 3/5 of the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, which came into effect on Saturday. The accused is on the run.The ordinance has provisions to check religious conversions carried out by “allurement, coercion, force, fraud, or marriage.”Also Read | Massive cycle of religious conversions going on under guise of love: ChouhanThe state cabinet cleared the law earlier this week, targeting what many right-wing outfits term “love jihad”, where Muslim men marry Hindu women with the aim of changing the latter’s religion after marriage. According to the ordinance, marriages where the intention is to change the woman’s religion will be declared invalid.Under the provisions of the new law, the violations have been made a cognizable and non-bailable offence. The new law authorises the aggrieved persons’ parents, siblings or close relatives to file an FIR for violation of the provisions of the ordinance. The ordinance provides for jail term of up to 10 years in some cases for violators and treats forced and forced conversions as a non-bailable offence.A government spokesperson said those violating the provisions may be punished with imprisonment of one to five years with a fine of not less than Rs 15,000. In case of girls, who are minors or belong to the scheduled castes or the scheduled tribes, the imprisonment will be for two to 10 years with a minimum fine of Rs 25,000. In case of mass conversion, the law has the provision for imprisonment of three to 10 years and a minimum fine of Rs 50,000. It provides for courts to award appropriate compensation with a maximum of Rs 5 lakh payable by the accused to the victim.Any person who counsels or convinces the other person to commit the offence will also invite punishment. And the burden of proof will lie with the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-police-file-first-case-under-ordinance-against-forced-religious-conversions/story-nOQhSj1zVh1EyPJBriPKyN.html
29-11-2020||India||Uttarakhand’s Vocal for Local push shows promise as growth centres make profit||Growth centres started in Uttarakhand, with a focus on Centre’s Vocal for Local agenda, have started making profits and give earnings to locals from the hilly regions. The State government started developing growth centres at a fast pace after lakhs of migrants returned to the state during the nationwide lockdown. “Starting growth centres to give employment to locals is a dream project of chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and it is yielding positive results also. We have over 100 growth centres that have been sanctioned in the state, which are helping locals increase their daily productivity with mechanised support,” said SA Murugesan, commissioner industries. The commissioner further said that 106 growth centres have been approved of which over 70 have started production and making profits. Further, the department has 12 new proposals pending for approval. The 75 growth centres, that have started production in the past few months, have generated a turnover of over ₹6 crores, said Anupam Dwivedi, deputy director of Uttarakhand Industries department.“We take monthly updates from the growth centres on overall and net profits. Official records show that there has been an overall turnover of ₹6 crores by all growth centres combined, with a profit of around 10% of the total turnover. The profit making is slow, but it is picking up with the use of technology and proper marketing,” said Dwivedi. He added that the industries department works on a convergence model with its main role being facilitating in the function of the growth centre. Cooperatives or self-help groups that approach the department use the existing infrastructure, and the machinery to boost production is given by the state government. Also Read: 28 4G mobile towers to rise in Uttarakhand’s border areas to boost connectivity In October, while reviewing the working of the growth centres, chief minister Rawat had announced that Uttarakhand’s local products will soon have an umbrella brand for better branding to connect with the state and the Himalayas. “The products being produced by the growth centres involving locals would soon have an umbrella brand under which other brands would continue to operate. The brand would be developed with the help of experts. It would be such that one will get a feeling of Uttarakhand and its Himalayas. This would help the products to be sold in a much better way,” Rawat had said.Under the initiative, it was suggested that the government open centres in blocks were people are mainly involved in one occupation like poultry, agriculture or dairy. For an area where people are involved mainly in poultry, the government opened a poultry based growth centre, similarly a dairy based growth centre was opened in areas where dairy was the primary occupation of the locals and so on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-s-vocal-for-local-push-shows-promise-as-growth-centres-make-profit/story-1fTWzWYtTmfQblEYXLEmrO.html
29-11-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 count now closer to 9.4 million, 22 states and UTs have fatality rate lower than national average||India’s coronavirus disease (Covid-19) count reached 93,92,919 on Sunday after 41,810 new cases were recorded in the last 24 hours, according to Union health ministry.The number of active cases stand at 4,53,956, while 88,02,267 people have been cured or discharged.The country also recorded 496 new fatalities due to the coronavirus disease, which pushed the death toll up to 1,36,696, according to health ministry update at 8 am.The ministry posted a graph on Sunday morning, which showed that 22 states and union territories have Covid-19 fatality rate lower than the national average of 1.46 per cent. #IndiaFightsCorona #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/1i9sx7A43lOn Saturday, India had recorded 41,322 new cases of the novel coronavirus.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, meanwhile, held a three-city tour to Pune, Ahmedabad and Hyderabad on Saturday to personally review the development and manufacturing of the vaccine.The Prime Minister’s visit to Pune’s Serum Institute of India (SII), Ahmedabad’s Zydus Biotech Park and Hyderabad’s Bharat Biotech earlier today was aimed at getting the first-hand perspective of the preparations, challenges and roadmap in the country’s endeavour to vaccinate its citizens.PM Modi also met SII chief Adar Poonawalla, who said after the meeting that his company will apply for an emergency approval for the coronavirus vaccine developed by University of Oxford and AstraZeneca in two weeks.The vaccine being developed by Oxford and AstraZeneca had shown to be at least 62 per cent (and up to 90 per cent) effective in an interim analysis based on 131 infections in the clinical trials being held in the United Kingdom and Brazil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-count-now-closer-to-9-4-million-22-states-and-uts-have-fatality-rate-lower-than-national-average/story-jgYuLHhlhySGfJ1igOI6VO.html
29-11-2020||India||Scientists develop method that may lead to more accurate, fast Covid-19 test||Scientists have used nanopores (extremely small pores) and electric current to devise a new method to identify viruses. The method will be a breakthrough in new, fast and accurate tests for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), they claimed.The study describing the new method has been published in the journal ACS Sensors.Also Read: Scientists try to break down why some people develop Covid-19 as life-threatening disease while others remain asymptomaticThe study demonstrated a new system for identifying single virus particles using an algorithm trained to detect changes in the current passing across silicon nanopores, according to news agency PTI. The team of scientists include those from Osaka University in Japan, it further reported.The scientists used a layer of the compound silicon nitride - just 50 nanometres thick - with nanopores added, for the study. The layer was suspended on a silicon wafer and when a voltage difference was applied to the solution on either side of the wafer, ions travel through the nanopores in a process called electrophoresis.According to the study, the motion of the ions can be monitored by the current they generate, and when a viral particle enters a nanopore, it blocks some of the ions from passing through, leading to a transient dip in current. Each dip reflects the physical properties of the particle, such as volume, surface charge, and shape, the scientists said, adding that the method can be used to identify the kind of virus.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe research team combined single-particle nanopore sensing with artificial intelligence to determine the identity of new samples and were able to achieve highly accurate identification of multiple viral species, PTI quoted senior author of the study, Makusu Tsutsui. Coronaviruses, due to their spiky outer proteins, are especially well suited for this technique, researchers said.“This work will help with the development of a virus test kit that outperforms conventional viral inspection methods,” said Tomoji Kawai, another co-author of the study.(with PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scientists-develop-method-that-may-lead-to-more-accurate-fast-covid-19-test/story-fYRqQpWi3YPiWAk5apHxgL.html
29-11-2020||India||Amit Shah to hold roadshow today for high-stakes GHMC polls||Former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president and Union home minister Amit Shah will on Sunday hold a roadshow to appeal to the people in Hyderabad to vote for the party in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) election.The campaigning for the GHMC election will end today. The polling will take place on December 1.Shah is expected to land in the state at around 10 am and will be accompanied by BJP’s election in-charge Bhupender Yadav and the party’s OBC Morcha president K Laxman.Shah will visit Bhagyalakshmi Devi temple before his roadshow from Varasiguda Chourasta to Sithaphalmandi.The counting of votes in GHMC election will be done on December 4.Meanwhile, BJP’s Telangana unit spokesperson NV Subhash on Saturday described the election as a direct battle between “all the parties that follow family rule versus BJP which follows the public rule. “Further attacking Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), Subhash said, “This election is majorly a fight between the corrupt TRS and the transparent BJP party. It is a fight between dictatorship and democracy.”“The central leaders of BJP are also paying a visit to Hyderabad just to expose the corrupt government of TRS,” he also said.Chief minister and TRS president K Chandrashekhar Rao has alleged that some “divisive forces” were trying to enter the city to disturb peace and tranquility amid the polls.Telangana currently has two MLAs from the BJP in the legislative assembly and has four MPs in the Lok Sabha from the state. The BJP is keen to use the civic polls as a means to increase its footprint in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-to-hold-roadshow-today-for-high-stakes-ghmc-polls/story-YPtDiki3FTDdIHMvLk0SaM.html
29-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: ‘Need to follow Covid-19 protocol even after vaccine is available,’ says ICMR chief and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Need to follow Covid-19 protocol even after vaccine is available, masks here to stay’: ICMR chiefThe health protocols put in place to tackle the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) will stay for a long time and people will have to keep wearing masks even after a vaccine is available, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) chief professor Balram Bhargava has said. Read moreBJP accuses Ashok Gehlot govt of horse tradingA video clip circulating on social media showing a Rajasthan Congress MLA accusing two Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) MLAs of receiving Rs 10 crore each during the Rajya Sabha polls and the internal fight in the state unit of the Congress prompted the BJP on Saturday to accuse the Ashok Gehlot government of involvement in horse trading. Read more1 officer of CRPF’s CoBRA battalion killed in IED blast triggered by Maoists in ChhattisgarhAn Assistant Commandant of Central Reserve Police Force’s (CRPF) CoBRA (Commando Battalion for Resolute Action) was killed and seven others were injured in an IED blast triggered by Maoists in Talmetala area of Sukma district on Saturday night. Read moreAsteroid, nearly as big as Burj Khalifa, to fly by earth todayAn asteroid named (153201) 2000 WO107, that is more than 800 metre high and over 500 metre wide - bigger than skyscraper Burj Khalifa - will barrel past earth on November 29 and will be closest to our planet at 10.38 am, according to scientists at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Nasa). Read more‘It’s happening since last World Cup’: Gautam Gambhir points out glaring issue with Indian teamFollowing India’s 66-run defeat to Australia on Friday, plenty of issues have come to light. India’s fielding looked rusty and the bowling attack appeared weak. Read moreSana Khan feels blessed and is in a happy space, shares fresh post-wedding picsFormer actor and Sana Khan, who got married to Surat-based Anas Sayied, earlier this month, has shared fresh pictures on Instagram. It is evident how happy she feels after marriage. Read more‘PM Modi extremely knowledgeable on vaccine’: SII CEO Adar PoonawallaSerum Institute India CEO Adar Poonawalla spoke on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to vaccine lab in Pune. Poonawalla said that he was amazed by the Prime Minister’s knowledge about vaccines and vaccine production. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-need-to-follow-covid-19-protocol-even-after-vaccine-is-available-says-icmr-chief-and-all-the-latest-news/story-I1cbwyNZX76l9jeKbrDn2K.html
29-11-2020||India||Chinese construction activities along Indian border ‘provocative measure’: US lawmaker||An influential US lawmaker has expressed concern over reports of China’s continuing construction activities along the Indian border in Ladakh, saying if the reports are true, it is a “provocative measure” on the part of Beijing and fits the pattern of its conduct in the South China Sea.India and China have been locked in a military standoff, which began in May, along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh.Armies of both countries have deployed a large number of troops along the LAC. Multiple rounds of talks between the two sides to resolve the standoff have not yielded any concrete outcome.“If it (reports) turns out to be true, it would be yet another provocative measure by the Chinese military to change the facts on the ground,” Democratic Congressman Raja Krishnamoorthi told PTI.“It would also fit the pattern of their conduct in the South China Sea, where they build islands, where they try to change the facts as we previously understood them, and they would be deeply disturbing, to say the least,” said Krishnamoorthi, who is the first-ever Indian-American to be on the US House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence.The Congressman from Illinois said reports including satellite images are his source of information about Chinese construction activities.Krishnamoorthi, who was recently re-elected to the House of Representatives for the third consecutive time, said the US stands with India.“I have to say that we currently in the US Congress, but also the Trump and the incoming Biden administration stand by our Indian partners and the Indo-Pacific region,” he said.The recently concluded Malabar exercise of QUAD countries -- India, Japan, Australia and the United States -- is a signal that the democracies in the Indo-Pacific region will continue to stand with each other and push for a rules-based international order, the Congressman said.Responding to a question, Krishnamoorthi said US President-elect Joe Biden has been a longtime friend of India, and he along with Indian-origin vice president-elect Kamala Harris will stand with New Delhi.“I think his selection Kamala Harris only cements a relationship given her own Indian roots. Secretary of State-nominee Anthony Blinken is also a longtime friend of India. He knows the region extremely well. I trust that incoming Secretary Blinken is going to take the relationship to new heights, along with President Biden and vice president Harris,” he said.“They are going to continue the approach that has largely been taken by Democratic and Republican presidents, which is we stand with India in the region, and opposing any kind of militaristic action on the part of any neighbour, including China,” he added.Krishnamoorthi also said addressing Covid-19 needs to be the number one priority for India and the US.“A global health partnership that involves India, the United States, and all of our partners and allies around the world, and others, is crucial for defeating the pandemic,” he said.“I’m confident it’s going to happen, especially with Joe Biden as one of the world’s premier preeminent leaders pushing this change.“I also am glad that he and his administration will once again engage with the WHO and the World Health Organisation will play an important part in distributing vaccines and the logistics of killing this virus. That’s the number one priority for both of our countries. I really look forward to the partnership that emerges on that front,” he said.The US has the highest number of coronavirus infections in the world, followed by India.The US’ death toll is now more than 264,000. And nearly another 60,000 people could lose their lives over the next three weeks, according to an ensemble forecast published by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) this week.India’s COVID-19 tally stood at 93,51,109 on Saturday. A total of 1,36,200 people have succumbed to the contagious respiratory disease in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinese-construction-activities-along-indian-border-provocative-measure-us-lawmaker/story-5jCNhJyHWAwek2yUQsxwTO.html
29-11-2020||India||Assam proposes 6th national park in militancy ravaged forest||The Assam government has proposed setting up a national park in a militancy ravaged reserve forest, which, if approved, would make it the state’s sixth national park. Forest minister Parimal Suklabaidya informed on Saturday that the process for approving Raimona National Park has been initiated. He unveiled the map of the new park at Manas National Park. “Another feather of success will be added to the biodiversity cap of Assam soon as we have initiated the process for approving the proposal for the 6th National Park of Assam, the Raimona National Park. Today we unveiled the map of this upcoming park,” Suklabaidya tweeted. According to the forest department, the proposal has been submitted to the governor of Assam for upgrading an area of 422 sq km of notified Ripu reserve forest under Manas National Park and Tiger Reserve as the proposed Raimona National Park. The existing national parks in Assam are Kaziranga, Manas, Dibru-Saikhowa, Manas and Orang. Also Read: Gorkhas of Assam seek recognition as indigenous group, release white paperRipu reserve forest is part of the buffer zone of Manas national park bordering Bhutan. The forest along with Chirang reserve forest has the largest known population of endangered Golden Langur. Since 1989, nearly 30% of the reserve forest has been felled and encroached upon due to the insurgency related issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-proposes-6th-national-park-in-militancy-ravaged-forest/story-vUNRb5YGjh1YjI6RSayNzI.html
29-11-2020||India||Gorkhas of Assam seek recognition as indigenous group, release white paper||The Assam unit of Bharatiya Gorkha Parisangh (BGP) has released a white paper stressing that Gorkhas are an indigenous group of the state and should be included as such in the high-level committee (HLC) report on Clause 6 of Assam Accord, which had left the community out. The compendium of historical facts and figures showing the presence of the community in Assam since many centuries was released on Saturday in Guwahati. “The white paper includes documents and facts with commentaries towards justification of Gorkhas as an indigenous group of Assam which the Justice Biplab Kumar Sharma-led HLC on Assam Accord Clause 6 undermined and left out from the report without any mention,” said BGP’s Assam spokesperson Nanda Kirati Dewan. The Assam Accord was signed in 1985 after a 6-year agitation in the state against illegal immigrants from Bangladesh. The Clause 6 of the accord sought to provide constitutional, legislative and administrative safeguards to protect, preserve and promote the cultural, social, linguistic identity and heritage of the indigenous Assamese people. The HLC, formed by the Union home ministry, to define who constitute Assamese people and suggest measures for safeguarding their rights, submitted its report in February this year to Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal. Also Read: BJP promises implementation of Bodo accord, development ahead of BTC polls in AssamThe report of the committee, which was made public by All Assam Students Union (AASU) in August, stated that all citizens of India, who were a resident of Assam on January 1, 1951, and their descendants, would be considered as Assamese people for the purpose of Clause 6. According to BGP, there was no mention of the Gorkha community in the HLC report. In September, BGP submitted a dissent note to the Assam chief secretary seeking safeguards for the community under provisions of Clause 6 of the Assam Accord. Copies of the white paper would be sent to the Union home minister, chief minister of Assam and other departments to seek the inclusion of Gorkhas as an indigenous community of Assam in the HLC report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gorkhas-of-assam-seek-recognition-as-indigenous-group-release-white-paper/story-dbBBcj1aL6O3IJJuBP94GK.html
29-11-2020||India||‘Need to follow Covid-19 protocol even after vaccine is available, masks here to stay’: ICMR chief||The health protocols put in place to tackle the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) will stay for a long time and people will have to keep wearing masks even after a vaccine is available, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) chief professor Balram Bhargava has said.Speaking at a webinar hosted by Lucknow’s King George’s Medical University (KGMU), Dr Bhargava said that India is making rapid progress as far as the development of Covid-19 vaccine is concerned. “We have a target to provide vaccine to 30 crore people by July next year. The future course of action will be decided after that. India will develop a vaccine, not just for itself but for 60 per cent of the developing nations. Twenty four manufacturing units and 19 firms will be engaged in developing a Covid-19 vaccine,” Hindustan Times’ sister publication Hindustan quoted prof Bhargava as saying on Saturday.The ICMR director general also said that masks will stay because they work like a vaccine.“Mask is like a fabric vaccine. We cannot ignore the contribution made by masks in stopping the spread of Covid-19. We are working on vaccines, five candidates are undergoing trial in India. Out of these, two are being developed by India which three are from abroad. But vaccines won’t be enough to end Covid-19. We will have to keep following health and safety protocols,” Dr Bhargava added at the webinar titled ‘Changing paradigms in Covid-19 management’.He said that masks play an important role in keeping those people safe who have recovered from the infection.The webinar was held on a day when Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a three-city tour to Pune, Ahmedabad and Hyderabad to personally review the development and manufacturing of the vaccine.The Prime Minister’s visit to Pune’s Serum Institute of India (SII), Ahmedabad’s Zydus Biotech Park and Hyderabad’s Bharat Biotech was aimed at getting the first-hand perspective of the preparations, challenges and roadmap in the country’s endeavour to vaccinate its citizens.According to Union ministry of health, as many as 93,51,110 cases of Covid-19 have been reported thus far including 87,59,969 recoveries and 4,54,940 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-to-follow-covid-19-protocol-even-after-vaccine-is-available-masks-here-to-stay-icmr-chief/story-dXlcsCkn1BSHR9hLAlbDcP.html
29-11-2020||India||After eight-month gap, churches in Mumbai to resume Sunday Mass from today||After remaining closed since March this year due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, churches in Mumbai will resume Mass from Sunday with strict adherence to all the government regulations and necessary protocols in place.The state government had permitted reopening of religious places on November 16. However, churches remained closed and only private prayers were allowed so far.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageOn March 25, the Centre had imposed a nationwide lockdown to check the Covid-19 spread across the country, which led to closure of all religious places of worship and banned public gathering.Guidelines that devotees need to follow:According to government guidelines, face masks have been made compulsory and those entering the churches will have to follow social distancing norms.Adults above the age of 65 years, children below 10, and persons with fever, cold, cough, and comorbidities will not be allowed inside church premises.Churches will continue to organise online masses for people who cannot step out as of now, according to Archbishop of Bombay.To maintain social distancing, devotees have been asked to sit on marked seats only. Prayers books will be absent.All devotees are requested to go through thermal scanners at the time of the entry. Foot pedal dispensers have been provided to sanitise their hands.There will be gaps between mass to allow church authorities to fumigate the place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-eight-month-gap-churches-in-mumbai-to-resume-sunday-mass-from-today/story-ew68nM7JiKGmvFJMnhgu9I.html
29-11-2020||India||Massive cycle of religious conversions going on under guise of love: Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has alleged that a ‘massive cycle’ of religious conversions is going on under the guise of love in the country. Chouhan claimed that the condition of such women’s lives have gone from bad to worse making it necessary to stop marriages with wrong motives, done through incentives, pressure, fear and temptation. Chauhan was in Prayagraj on a personal visit to immerse ashes of his father-in-law at the Sangam. Speaking on the contentious issue of ‘love jihad’, he said state governments run by the BJP were bringing in tough laws to curb religious conversions under the guise of love. Speaking over the massive demonstrations against the Centre’s new farm laws, Chouhan said that there can be no well-wisher of farmers like PM Narendra Modi. He said all the three laws being opposed are in the interest of farmers.Chouhan arrived at Sangam city on Saturday morning to immerse the ashes of his father-in-law Ghanshyam Das Masani, who passed away recently. The MP CM was received at the Bamrauli airport by UP minister of civil aviation, minority welfare, haj and waqf department, Nand Gopal Gupta Nandi. Chouhan was also accompanied by his wife Sadhana Singh and few other relatives. The MP CM also met Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad president Mahant Narendra Giri and performed religious rituals at Sangam. Also Read: ‘Why no ordinance for farmers, jobless youth?’ Akhilesh reacts to UP’s ‘love jihad’ lawChouhan’s comments on Love Jihad came on a day when Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel gave assent to an ordinance against forcible or fraudulent religious conversions, which provides for imprisonment of up to 10 years and fine of up to Rs 50,000 under different categories.Chouhan’s government in Madhya Pradesh has also indicated that it would double the duration of sentence to 10-years of rigorous imprisonment from a 5 year sentence for cases of forceful religious conversions and marriages by enticement or fraud.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/massive-cycle-of-religious-conversions-going-on-under-guise-of-love-chouhan/story-xfavst0vfvUln6CTkeLHOP.html
29-11-2020||India||No PUC certificate could lead to seizure of vehicle RC from next year||The central government is tightening the noose around those who violate pollution norms for vehicles. From January next year, a system will be put in place where not having a valid Pollution Under Control (PUC) certificate can lead to seizure of the vehicle’s registration certificate (RC).According to Hindustan Times’s sister publication Hindustan, the road transport ministry has issued a draft notification on November 27 asking for suggestions from other stakeholders before it takes the PUC system online. The process will take two months, according to Hindustan.People aware of the development told Hindustan that according to the new system, the information regarding the vehicle owner will be uploaded to servers linked to Motor Vehicles database. This way, it will be very hard for people to continue using their vehicles without a PUC certificate, the people cited above said.The vehicle users will have to give their mobile numbers, on which they will receive a One-Time Password (OTP). The executive at the PUC centre will be able to generate a form only after the user provides an OTP, thereby reducing the chances of foul play.According to the proposed system, it will be mandatory to renew a vehicle’s PUC within the stipulated time period. If a user is not found carrying a valid PUC certificate, he/she will be given seven days. Failing to obtain a valid certificate within this period will lead to seizure of the vehicle RC.Additionally, authorities too can ask a users to get their vehicles checked if they are found emitting extra fumes. Such users will also be given a time of seven days to get their vehicles in order. The same rules will apply on commercial vehicles too, Hindustan reported.The steps are being taken to control the air pollution level which has reached to hazardous levels in the last few weeks. On Saturday, Delhi’s air quality slipped back into the poor category.The city’s 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) was 231 on Saturday. It was 137 on Friday, 302 on Thursday and 413 on Wednesday.With winds slowing down, government agencies said the air quality is likely to deteriorate further.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-puc-certificate-could-lead-to-seizure-of-vehicle-rc-from-next-year/story-PqcR6JLQzTKifbI2H0dd2M.html
29-11-2020||India||1 officer of CRPF’s CoBRA unit killed in IED blast triggered by Maoists in Chhattisgarh||An Assistant Commandant of Central Reserve Police Force’s (CRPF) CoBRA (Commando Battalion for Resolute Action) was killed and eight others were injured in an IED blast triggered by Maoists in Talmetala area of Sukma district on Saturday night.Inspector General of Police (IG) Bastar, Sunderaj P, told Hindustan Times that a team of 206 CoBRA was out for anti-naxal operation late on Saturday night when eight personnel, including two senior officials, were injured in an IED blast triggered by the Maoists.The IG said that the incident took place near Arabraj Metta hills, which is nine kilometres Northwest of Chitagufa police station and six kilometres west of Burkapal base camp.“All eight injured were airlifted to Raipur at around 12.45 am and were admitted in a hospital. On Sunday morning an Assistant Commandant, Nitin Bhalerao, who sustained serious injured died in the hospital,” said the IG.Assistant Commandant Nitin Bhalerao succumbed to his injuries and breathed his last at 3:30 am on Sunday in Raipur, according to IG Suderaj P. Bhalerao belonged to Nasik in Maharastra.The police said that other seven are out of danger.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/senior-officer-of-crpf-s-cobra-battalion-dead-7-others-injured-in-ied-blast-in-chhattisgarh-s-sukma-district/story-lpIqWQabgHkoM1xW9J1k9H.html
29-11-2020||India||Northern Railways short terminates, diverts trains due to farmers’ stir||Amid farmers’ agitation in Punjab against farm bills, Northern Railways said on Saturday that some trains will be short terminated, short originated or diverted.The Chief Public Relations Officer, Northern Railways Deepak Kumar issued a release in this regard.The 02715 Nanded -Amritsar express special train journey commencing on November 28 will be short terminated at New Delhi while the 02716 Amritsar - Nanded journey commencing on November 30 will short originate from New Delhi and remain partially cancelled between New Delhi- Amritsar- New Delhi.Also Read | Farmers stand by demands, Burari offer sees few takersThe 02925 BandraTerminus - Amritsar express journey commencing on November 28 will be short terminated at Chandigarh. Consequently, the 02926 Amritsar- Bandra Terminus express journey commencing on November 30 will short originate from Chandigarh and remain partially cancelled between Chandigarh- Amritsar-Chandigarh.The 02903 Mumbai Central- Amritsar express special journey commencing on November 27 will be diverted to run via Beas - Tarntaran - Amritsar while the 02904 Amritsar- Mumbai Central express journey commencing on November 28 will be diverted to run via Amritsar -Tarntaran - Beas.The 04650/74 Amritsar- Jaynagar express special journey commencing 29 .11.20 will be diverted to run via Amritsar -Tarntaran - Beas while the 04649/73 Jaynagar -Amritsar express special jco 27.11.20 will be diverted to run via Beas - Tarntaran - Amritsar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/northern-railways-short-terminates-diverts-trains-due-to-farmers-stir/story-cv2kiRldWOTdfzJSKKvgAM.html
29-11-2020||India||Jaishankar stresses on enhancing bilateral ties with Seychelles in post-Covid era||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar stressed on India’s resolve to further enhance the India-Seychelles strategic partnership in the post-Covid era as he held high-level talks with the country’s top leadership during his two-day visit to the key Indian Ocean nation.Jaishankar was on a November 27-28 visit to Seychelles. He arrived here after his visit to the United Arab Emirates. He also visited Bahrain as part of this three-nation tour, which began on Tuesday.Also Read: EAM Jaishankar begins Seycelles visit, to focus on security, development cooperationDuring his visit, he called on Seychelles’ newly-elected Indian-origin President Wavel Ramkalawan on Friday and congratulated him on his recent electoral victory.During the meeting, Jaishankar and Ramkalawan discussed the historical neighbourly relationship strengthened by shared belief in values of democracy and rule of law. Jaishankar “iterated India’s resolve to further enhance the India-Seychelles strategic partnership in the post-Covid era,” according to a press release issued by the Ministry of External Affairs on Saturday.The minister also “spoke of the centrality of Seychelles to India’s vision of SAGAR (Security And Growth for All in the Region) that characterised India’s policy towards the Indian Ocean Region. As a neighbour across waters, Seychelles was very much a part of the Neighbourhood First policy as well,” it said.Jaishankar also carried a personal message from Prime Minister Narendra Modi and conveyed an invitation from the Indian leadership to the Seychelles President to visit India in 2021.“Discussed our close security cooperation, strong development partnership and long-standing people-to-people contacts,” Jaishankar said in a tweet after the meeting with Ramkalawan.“Assured him that Seychelles had a particular priority, both under the Neighbourhood First policy and the SAGAR outlook. Look forward to further strengthening our ties under his leadership,” he said.The minister also recalled Ramkalawan’s visit to India in January 2018 and expressed the confidence that under his leadership, the close ties between the two countries would develop even further, it said.Also Read: S Jaishankar meets UAE counterpart; discusses Covid-19, strategic cooperationPresident Ramkalwan appreciated the assistance provided by India during the pandemic in the form of medical supplies and critical drugs and valued the development and security partnership between the two countries. He also spoke of its positive impact on nation building in Seychelles. Jaishankar emphasised India’s commitment to support the interests and aspirations of Seychelles and take this cooperation to a higher level.The discussions underscored the need to further expand and deepen bilateral engagement, and to coordinate and cooperate to counter the challenges presented by the Covid-19 pandemic, according to the press release. They stressed the need to strengthen shared efforts to combat drug trafficking, IUU (Illegal, unreported and unregulated) fishing, piracy and climate change while protecting the ocean ecosystem. They also talked about a wide range of regional issues that impacted on their respective interests.Jaishankar also met Seychelles’ Minister of Foreign Affairs and Tourism Sylvestre Radegonde and discussed various aspects of bilateral relations including development partnership, capacity building, defence cooperation, people to people and cultural ties, trade, tourism and commerce and health, it said.Jaishankar’s visit assumes significance as India is developing infrastructure in the country to expand its footprint in the strategically-key region in the Indian Ocean where China has been trying to enhance its military presence. Indian-origin President Ramkalawan won the presidential election on October 25 this year, the first such victory for an Opposition candidate since Independence. Born in Mahe, the principal island of Seychelles, Ramkalawan was ordained as a priest in 1985 following theological studies at St Paul’s Theological College in Mauritius, and thereafter at Birmingham University. His grandfather was from Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-stresses-on-enhancing-bilateral-ties-with-seychelles-in-post-covid-era/story-xJLLPbAJKZvI5X7fy5k1nK.html
29-11-2020||India||PM Modi to address 71st edition of Mann Ki Baat shortly||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation through his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat at 11am on Sunday. On November 17, he sought suggestions from the people about topics for the 71st edition of the programme.“Every #MannKiBaat we celebrate the accomplishments of outstanding people, working for societal good. But, for every one example shared, there are many I am unable to share due to paucity of time. But, I do read many of the inputs and they are truly valuable,” he tweeted.“This month’s #MannKiBaat is on the 29th. I have already received many interesting inputs and anecdotes about inspiring life journeys. Keep sharing your thoughts on NaMo App, MyGov or record your message on 1800-11-7800,” the PM further added.In the 70th edition of the programme, aired on October 25, the PM urged countrymen to buy local products during the festival season, and talked about Pulwama in Jammu and Kashmir which is emerging as a hub for making pencils.“Today, Pulwama is playing an important role in educating the entire nation. Today, if the students across the nation do their homework, prepare notes, it is because of the hard work of the people of Pulwama,” PM Modi said.“Almost 90 per cent of the demand for pencil slate in the country is met by the Kashmir Valley. And Pulwama has a big share in that. At one time, we used to import the wood for pencils, but now, Pulwama is making the country self-reliant in this field,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-71st-edition-of-mann-ki-baat-today/story-JTK3lnBfFIT3AbzCitEYKJ.html
29-11-2020||India||Amit Shah appeals to farmers as crisis persists||Home minister Amit Shah reached out to protesting farmers on Saturday, appealing to them to move their demonstration to the designated spot in Delhi’s Burari and saying the government was ready to hold talks with their leaders before the scheduled date of December 3. Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh said he was ready to join the Centre’s efforts to resolve the issue and urged farmers to take up the home minister’s offer for talks.The statements come after thousands of farmers pressed on with their protest at highways on the outskirts of the Capital. Farmers from Uttar Pradesh were stopped by police at the Ghazipur border as they attempted to join their counterparts from Punjab and Haryana. Only a few hundred farmers moved the protest to the Sant Nirankari Ground in outer Delhi’s Burari on Saturday, and thousands others continued to block two arterial roads at the Singhu and Tikri borders, connecting the Capital with Haryana.As the impasse continued, Shah urged them to move to the Burari ground, saying the government wanted to discuss the issues during a meeting called by the agriculture minister on December 3 and was ready to “hear their grievances”. “If farmers’ unions want to hold a discussion before December 3, then I want to assure you all that as soon as you shift your protest to the designated place, our government will hold talks to address your concerns the very next day,” Shah said.The farmers – largely from Punjab and Haryana who travelled in their tractor-trolleys – were allowed to enter Delhi on Friday after braving a day of clashes with police, who used teargas, water cannons and baton charges to push them back. “We intend to block Delhi from all sides so that the government is suffocated into listening to our demands. Protesting in Burari would have practically been like being jailed in an open ground for us,” said Purushottam Singh, chief of the Bhartiya Kisan Union’s Lakhua unit. Police personnel kept both the border points barricaded on Saturday. “There is no confrontation since Friday, but the barricades will remain closed...” said A Koan, DCP (outer district).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-appeals-to-farmers-as-crisis-persists/story-u4YfB4hptvmUn5ZexwHWsI.html
29-11-2020||India||CBI files fresh case in Bengal despite state’s withdrawal of general consent||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) carried out searches across 45 locations in four states on Saturday after registering a case against alleged coal pilferer Anup Manjhi who was suspected to be acting in collusion with two general managers and three security personnel of Eastern Coalfields Ltd (ECL), people familiar with the matter said.The searches were spread across West Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh, they said. The CBI registered the case despite the West Bengal government having withdrawn its general consent to the agency on November 18, 2018. This is the fifth such FIR (first information report) registered by the agency in the election-bound state this year without the West Bengal government’s nod. The previous four FIRs were filed in the months of September and October 2020 – on allegations pertaining to financial irregularities involving coal ministry officials in a central provident fund organisation case; against a Border Security Force (BSF) commandant on cattle smuggling; against two scientists at the Bureau of Indian Standard (BIS); and a case against a former vice chancellor of Visva Bharati University. The CBI officially refused to comment on the matter but at least two officials, who didn’t wish to be named, said the agency was using the leverage provided in a Calcutta high court judgment on March 12 this year in Ramesh Chandra Singh & Others Vs CBI. The high court had observed in its order that “the central government/CBI’s power to investigate and prosecute its own officials cannot be in any way impeded or interfered by the state even if the offences were committed within the territory of the state”. Ramesh Chandra Singh was a central government employee who was being investigated for disproportionate assets much before the general consent was withdrawn. He had challenged the CBI’s jurisdiction in the state. A CBI official said, “The high court provided us an opening to file cases in West Bengal. As the high court has mentioned, we now don’t need the state government’s permission to file cases against central government officials.” TMC leader and West Bengal minister Dr Shashi Panja said, “All allies have deserted the NDA (National Democratic Alliance). Some of their most trusted allies still remain: CBI, ED, etc. It is election season, so Modi-Shah are at it again.” West Bengal is among the eight states to have withdrawn the mandatory general consent granted under section 6 of the DSPE Act for probes in their jurisdictions. The seven other states are – Rajasthan, Mizoram, Jharkhand, Maharashtra, Punjab, Kerala and Chhattisgarh. Opposition states have alleged that the CBI is being used by the government to target them. After filing the latest case on Friday evening, CBI teams raided 45 locations in West Bengal, Jharkhand, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh and recovered ₹40 lakh in cash and several documents. Those booked include Anup Manjhi alias Lala, ECL general managers Amit Kumar Dhar (Pandaveswar area) and Jayesh Chandra Rai (Kajora area) besides ECL chief of security Tanmay Das, area security inspector Kunustoria Dhananjay Rai and security in-charge Debashish Mukherjee. CBI spokesperson RK Gaur said the “agency had information from reliable sources indicating illegal excavation and theft of coal in the leasehold area of ECL in connivance with the officials of ECL, Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) and Railways”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-files-fresh-case-in-bengal-despite-state-s-withdrawal-of-general-consent/story-AbbOnEeqcMK6KOxHNcJEUJ.html
29-11-2020||India||SII to seek emergency licence in two weeks||The Serum Institute of India (SII) will apply for an emergency approval for the coronavirus vaccine developed by University of Oxford and AstraZeneca in two weeks, its chief executive Adar Poonawalla said on Saturday, hours after meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi who was on a three-city tour to pharma companies working on an inoculation against the Sars-Cov-2.The announcement comes at the end of a week when Oxford and AstraZeneca announced their vaccine had shown to be at least 62% (and up to 90%) effective in an interim analysis based on 131 infections in the clinical trials being held in the United Kingdom and Brazil. “We are in the process of applying to India’s drugs regulator-- the drugs controller general of India (DCGI) -- in next two weeks for emergency licensure and things will follow then in that order. We are in the process of submitting data to DCGI for analysis,” said Poonawalla.“Had a good interaction with the team at Serum Institute of India. They shared details about their progress so far on how they plan to further ramp up vaccine manufacturing. Also took a look at their manufacturing facility,” Prime Minister Modi said in a tweet after visiting the Pune facility where he met Poonawalla. Earlier, Modi visited the vaccine manufacturing unit of Zydus Cadila in Ahmedabad and of Bharat Biotech in Hyderabad. Both the companies have developed their own vaccine candidates that are into advanced stages of clinical trials.“The central message of this trip is to motivate the vaccine producers. Here is a PM sitting down with promoters, chief scientists to discuss the details of their work. Even though he couldn’t give more than half an hour at each facility as he had to travel between different cities, he was not short of enthusiasm. Never before has any PM gone to such facilities to discuss their work in detail,” said a government official who asked not to be named. The Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine candidate is among the global front-runners in terms of volumes produced and clinical trial progress, and is being closely watched because it is cheaper and easier to transport than its only rivals that have shown efficacy till now: the mRNA vaccines by Moderna and Pzifer-BioNTech. All of these vaccines have a two-dose regimen.The Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine is also being tested among Indian volunteers as part of global phase 3 trials in different populations.Experts said the approval process would depend on what data SII approaches the national drugs regulator with. “We need to be sure about which data they will be providing -- only Indian component of global [trial]? Only 2 full-dose component or also include the half-full stream as well,” said Dr K Srinath Reddy, founder, Public Health Foundation of India.The dose references relate to the difference in efficacy in the announcement by Oxford and AstraZeneca. The developers found that the vaccine was more effective among people who were given a half-strength first dose, a regimen that was not originally planned, leading many experts to question the scientific sanctity of the trials. Poonawalla said the controversy will not affect the trials in India. “At the moment trials are enough to establish the efficacy. In future, if at all we have to conduct fresh trials it will be for under 18 age group after safety is established in adults,” he added. The lower efficacy with two full doses, while not as good as the 95% reported by Moderna and Pfizer, could be enough for an approval by regulators since they have set the bar at 50%. The British pharma company’s CEO told Bloomberg on Thursday that the company may undertake a new trial with the half-strength dose.Poonawalla, in his comments on the opening day of the 18th Hindustan Times Leadership Summit this month, indicated that an emergency use licence could be secured by January.The PM’s discussion with the SII team largely centred around the vaccine implementation plan, and the pros and cons of all Covid-19 vaccine candidates in the fray, as well as estimates of doses that will need to be made available.“The indication is for about 300-400 million doses by July 2021, which the government has earlier also announced on various occasions. We are trying to get to the target. The government will have to take a balanced view keeping in mind pros and cons of all the vaccines out there,” Poonawalla added on Saturday.SII has manufactured about 40 million doses of the vaccine and can currently make about 50-60 million a month, with the capacity expected to be scaled up to 100 million by February. “How to distribute and where to distribute -- all this was discussed. We have indicated a price which is affordable and accessible for everybody but it all depends on regulatory approvals. However, stockpiling and manufacturing is continuing as it is and even if there is delay in getting approvals there shouldn’t be any delays in producing volumes,” said Poonawalla.As per results available currently, the vaccine has shown zero hospitalisation in patients and the viral load reduced by about 60%, said the SII CEO. “It means that even if you get hospitalised, the attack won’t be severe; and those who are infected won’t transmit, which is bonus for a vaccine for a disease that is so infective,” he said.SII has a licence to produce a billion doses of the vaccine for low- and middle-income countries, and has committed to reserve half of what it produces for India. Officials aware of the PM’s plans said the visit was meant to motivate the scientists and the employees of these firms. “Visited the Zydus Biotech Park in Ahmedabad to know more about the indigenous DNA based vaccine being developed by Zydus Cadila. I compliment the team behind this effort for their work. Government of India is actively working with them to support them in this journey. At the Bharat Biotech facility in Hyderabad, was briefed about their indigenous Covid-19 vaccine. Congratulated the scientists for their progress in the trials so far...,” Modi said in two tweets after the visits, each of which lasted around 20-25 minutes and involved hectic flights and helicopter transports.According to an official who asked not to be named, the PM met the promoters of the companies and the chief scientists. At each of the facilities, the PM sought to know how they are conducting the trials, the status of vaccine development and, apart from Covid vaccine research, what other activities related to drugs or diagnostics are undertaken at each place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sii-to-seek-emergency-licence-in-two-weeks/story-KobMzYgKW7EcxEdeKcM9LI.html
29-11-2020||India||Farmers stand by demands, Burari offer sees few takers||Only a few hundred agitating farmers had, as of Saturday evening, accepted the Delhi Police’s offer to continue their stir at a ground in Burari, a day after relentless skirmishes at the capital’s interstate borders forced the police to allow protesters into the city. Meanwhile, thousands of farmers continued to block two arterial roads at Singhu and Tikri borders, connecting Delhi with Haryana, for the second consecutive day as part of their ongoing agitation against three farm laws passed by Parliament in September.Union home minister Amit Shah appealed to farmers on Saturday and said his government was ready to hold talks. “I appeal to the protesting farmers that the Union government is ready to hold talks. The agriculture minister has invited them on December 3 for a discussion. The government is ready to deliberate on every problem and demand of farmers,” he told ANI.Unlike Friday, when police and farmers clashed multiple times at the two border points, Saturday was free of incident. “We intend to block Delhi from all sides so that the government is pressured into listening to our demands. Protesting at Burari would have been like being jailed in an open ground. We have come prepared for however long it takes,” said Purushottam Singh, chief of the Bhartiya Kisan Union’s Lakhua (Punjab) unit. On Friday afternoon, the Delhi Police had agreed to let in the protesters, provided they move to the Burari ground, but not before a series of clashes between farmers and the police who used tear gas shells, lathis and water cannons. Only a few hundred farmers who entered via Tikri border have moved to Burari; no farmer camped at Singhu border has agreed to the “protest only in Burari” offer of the Delhi Police. Farmers at SInghu said they would agree to a march to Rashtrapati Bhawan or Jantar Mantar, but not any other site. “Some of the farmers from the Tikri border had left for the Burari ground but we have called them back,” said Jaspal Singh, a farmer leader from Firozpur, who is camping at Tikri border. Amid the impasse, farmers from Punjab and Haryana continued to arrive at the Delhi-Haryana border throughout Saturday. “We have trucks and trolleys lined up for several kilometres,” said Jaspal Singh.On Saturday, the police and the farmers maintained a distance of at least 50m from each other at both the borders. “If farmers want to go to Burari, we will remove the barricades. There was no confrontation since Friday afternoon, but barricades will remain closed,” said A Koan, deputy commissioner of police (outer district). Gaurav Sharma, DCP of outer-north district, under whose jurisdiction the Singhu Border falls, said,“Our aim is to keep things peaceful.” The Delhi government on Saturday set up a Covid-19 testing centre at the ground. The mobile centre will have teams to conduct rapid antigen tests free of cost, said a senior official in the revenue department.Health minister Satyendar Jain said, “The farmers have legitimate concerns. They should at least be heard. The Delhi government has refused the police’s proposal to turn stadiums into jails. We are merely facilitating the famers’ visit.”Several politicians spoke in support f farmers on Saturday. AAP legislator Sanjeev Jha, who met farmers in Burari along with his party leader Raghav Chadha, said they were there to ensure that there is no inconvenience to farmers. “We will ensure that they have no problems, irrespective of how long they wish to stay there,” Jha said. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday said the Modi government cannot break the strong resolve of farmers through “fake FIRs” and the fight against the “anti-agriculture” laws will continue till they are repealed. He also tweeted that raising one’s voice against injustice was not crime but a duty. “Raising voice against injustice is not crime, it is a duty. For us, it was ‘Jai Kisan’ and will remain so,” he said. Members of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), led by Rakesh Tikait, broke through barricades at the UP Gate border with east Delhi on Saturday afternoon. The 500-odd farmers were stopped at Ghazipur by Delhi Police and they returned to UP Gate to hunker down below the flyover for the night. “After breaking the barriers, we took our vehicles up to the Ghazipur where the Delhi Police stopped us. So, we returned to UP Gate and decided to stay put till a strategy is devised to enter Delhi,” said Rajvir Singh, state vice-president, BKU. “We are diverting traffic away from UP Gate. Commuters coming from Mohan Nagar will not be allowed to turn left towards UP Gate. Instead, they can enter Delhi from Kaushambi. Those travelling on NH-9 will also not be allowed to come down to the UP Gate flyover. Instead, all such vehicles will go over the flyover,” said Gyanendra Singh, superintendent of police (city 2). In Gautam Budh Nagar, a group of farmers was intercepted on the Yamuna Expressway on Saturday afternoon. “They were stopped near Jewar after which they camped on the side of the expressway. There wasn’t any traffic disruption and it was a peaceful gathering. No police action was needed,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 3, Vishal Pandey.Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday said he will not speak to his Haryana counterpart Manohar Lal Khattar until he apologises for “inflicting brutality” on farmers marching to Delhi.“Khattar is lying that he tried calling me earlier and I did not respond. But now, after what he has done to my farmers, I will not speak to him even if he calls me 10 times. Unless he apologises and admits that he did wrong with Punjab’s farmers, I will not forgive him,” said Singh. The Punjab CM’s reaction came after Khattar claimed on Saturday that despite him trying to reach out over the farmers’ issue, Singh did not respond or answer calls made to his office for three days.Farmers from Nuh, Mewat,will be travelling to Delhi on December 1 to join the ongoing stir, farmer leaders from the region said. The decision was taken after a joint meeting of farmers’ union Bharatiya Kisan Union, Mewat Kisan Union and other organisations such as Mewat Vikas Sabha in Nuh on Saturday. “We were proceeding towards Delhi on November 26 itself but were stopped from doing so by authorities who detained us. Farmers will march towards Delhi on December 1 and join the stir in huge numbers,” said Azad Khan, vice-president (Haryana), Bharatiya Kisan Union.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-stand-by-demands-burari-offer-sees-few-takers/story-MjQE39u4AJ1uA9UGob7cSI.html
29-11-2020||India||Traffic chaos continues at city borders||The Singhu and Tikri borders were on Saturday shut for traffic for the second consecutive day due to the farmers’ protests. Motorists commuting between Delhi and Haryana faced massive disruptions even as the traffic police said that the situation was better than Friday due to awareness among commuters about the restrictions.Traffic police made a host of diversions and deployed its personnel along the affected routes.However, a large number of labourers and workers who were moving between Delhi and Haryana through the two borders for either work or for other reasons were still seen struggling. Scores of them were seen carrying their luggage on their heads and backs and walking across both the borders in the absence of any public transport.Chand Pal, a physically disabled man, said he had arrived from his hometown in Madhya Pradesh, landed at Anand Vihar, but had to walk near the border with luggage on his back. “I work in a factory in Bhiwani. I need to enter Haryana anyhow and catch a bus from where ever I can because there is no public transport at the Delhi Border,” Pal said at the Tikri Border after having to walk nearly a km using crutches and more thereafter.Traffic police on Saturday used their Twitter handle to list a host of other border points where people could enter Haryana from Delhi. These included Jharoda, Dhansa, Rajokri, Bijwasan, Dundahera, Badarpur, Palam Vihar and Daurala.And yet, a large number of motorists were confused about the borders they could access. They tweeted to the Delhi Traffic Police for status updates and in response were asked to dial the traffic helpline for the latest status.Taj Hassan, special commissioner of traffic police, however, said that the updates were being relayed correctly on its social media handles.Otherwise, the officer said that the traffic situation on Saturday was much more relaxed than on Friday. “Most motorists did not head towards the two borders as they were better informed of the situation on Saturday. Only the locals travelled in those areas and they were aware of the alternative routes,” said Hassan.Hassan said while the traffic movement at other border points in the city could be slower than usual due to checks, there was no major impact elsewhere.On Friday, the police also closed two other border roads — at Dhansa and Jharoda Kalan — for traffic as a precautionary measure even through there were no protesters there.Santosh Meena, DCP (Dwarka), said that while Dhansa Border was opened for traffic on Friday evening, the Jharoda Kalan Border was opened only for traffic towards Haryana. “The incoming traffic at Jharoda Kalan is open only for emergency traffic,” said the DCP.The Jharoda Kalan Border has remained partially closed as many farmers wanting to entering Delhi pass by on a Haryana road that is close to the border. Through Saturday, the traffic police diverted traffic from Mukarba Chowk and GT Karnal Road and did not allow any traffic movement from Outer Ring Road or Azadpur towards Singhu Border. In one of its tweet alerts, the traffic police termed the traffic at Mukarba Chowk and GTK Road as “very very heavy”.They advised motorists to avoid Outer Ring Road from Signature Bridge to Rohini and vice-versa, the GTK Road and NH-44.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/traffic-chaos-continues-at-city-borders/story-CkBDrHamsCDgl35KMOC6vI.html
29-11-2020||India||51.7% turnout in first phase of J-K DDC polls||The first phase of the maiden elections to the District Development Council recorded 51.76% voting in 43 constituencies that went to the polls under tight security arrangements in Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday, official figures showed.The contest is between the newly launched People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, the BJP and the Apni Party floated by former finance minister Altaf Bukhari. State election commissioner KK Sharma said, “The first phase of DDC polls was held in 43 constituencies in all the 20 districts of the UT. No untoward incident was reported from anywhere barring a minor incident where a child threw a stone at a polling station in Kulgam. Police took cognizance”. Sharma said a large number of people came out to exercise their franchise. “Out of 7 lakh voters, 51.76% voted today; 212,244 voters turned out in Jammu and 150,522 turned out in Kashmir despite cold wave conditions, and that is an encouraging sign,” he said. Sharma said the Jammu region recorded a voting percentage of 64.2 while Kashmir logged 40.65.The official said a total of 362,000 voters exercised their right to franchise, which included 193,000 men and 169,000 women despite intense cold wave conditions in the upper reaches of the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir. The highest polling percentage in Jammu was recorded in Reasi district at 74.6% followed by Rajouri, 70.52%, Poonch, 68.69%, and Samba, 68.61%. In Kashmir, Budgam district recorded a highest voting percentage of 56.96 followed by Kupwara, 50.74%, Ganderbal, 48.62%, and Shopian, 42.58%. Twenty-five constituencies in Kashmir and 18 in Jammu went to the polls in the first phase. The counting of votes for the eight-phase polls will be held on December 22. In the second phase on December 1, a total of 43 constituencies -- 25 in Kashmir and 18 in Jammu -- will go to the polls, with 321 candidates in the fray, including 125 in Jammu and 196 in Kashmir. For the second phase, there will be 2,762 polling stations for 760,664 electors. The state election commission has prohibited the conduct of any exit poll and publishing/displaying of the result of any such exit poll till the last phase of the elections is over.An order by Sharma said, “In exercise of powers conferred under Section 36 of the Jammu and Kashmir Panchayati Raj Act, the election authority prohibits the conduct of any exit poll and publishing or publicising/displaying the result of exit poll by means of the print or electronic media or in any other manner in the ongoing DDC elections in the UT of Jammu and Kashmir till the hour fixed for the conclusion of the poll in the last phase of these elections on December 19.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/51-7-turnout-in-first-phase-of-j-k-ddc-polls/story-sbi7njQPfU5GgA8Uz9KrRI.html
29-11-2020||India||Attorney General denies consent for contempt proceedings on Bhushan||Attorney General KK Venugopal has declined consent to initiate criminal contempt proceedings against lawyer Prashant Bhushan for his tweets in which he was critical of Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde being provided a special helicopter by the Madhya Pradesh government, saying the activist-lawyer later expressed regret. The consent of the topmost law officer was sought by one advocate Sunil Singh to initiate contempt proceedings against Bhushan for his October 21 tweet saying that the activist-lawyer connected “the personal life of CJI” with a pending case before him.Though Venugopal termed Bhushan’s earlier tweet about the CJI as “wholly unwarranted, improper, devoid of legal basis and prima facie contumacious”, he declined the consent considering the regret expressed in his later tweet. “I am of the opinion that the imputations contained in three tweets to the effect that the Chief Justice of India committed an act of impropriety in accepting facilities of the state of Madhya Pradesh during his visit to Kanha National Park while a case pertaining to the disqualification of certain members of the legislative assembly of MP was pending before him were wholly unwarranted, improper , devoid of legal basis and prima facie contumacious for following reasons,” Venugopal said in his response to the lawyer.He said firstly the CJI is one of the highest constitutional functionaries in the country and is entitled to receive protocol as befits the stature of his office and the state guests are entitled to be extended appropriate security.The top law officer said he was initially of the mind to grant the consent to initiate proceedings for criminal contempt. “However, I must bring to your attention subsequent developments … he has expressed regret for the error made in his earlier tweet on October 21. He has stated publicly that it was incorrect to state that the fate of the government of Madhya Pradesh depended on the case pending before the CJI… “In these circumstances, I do not think that it would be in public interest to give consent for proceedings on the basis of the original tweet in view of the subsequent tweet expressing regret. I accordingly decline consent,” Venugopal said,   The Attorney General said the region CJI visited has been a Maoist affected region and that is why he was given the helicopter facility.It is significant to note that on November 4, a bench headed by the CJI disposed of a plea that had raised the issue of pendency of disqualification proceedings against some Congress MLAs who had joined the BJP and were appointed as ministers in the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government in Madhya Pradesh.The top court, on August 31, had imposed a token fine of one rupee against Bhushan as punishment in the contempt case against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/attorney-general-denies-consent-for-contempt-proceedings-on-bhushan/story-Ed57ycTTpcrh99Vlvdu9hN.html
29-11-2020||India||Symptomatic patients four times more likely to spread virus: Study||A person who has symptoms of Covid-19 is four times more likely to pass the virus on to others than someone who remained asymptomatic, and the highest risk of infection comes from sharing a home with an infected individual, according to a statistical analysis of dozens of contact-tracing reports, which offers new evidence to underscore the need for people to isolate themselves as soon as they develop signs they may be ill.The researchers from Imperial College London also found that households have the highest transmission rates among indoor settings when compared to being in a workplace and casual social spaces, with the chance of one family member infecting another becoming significantly higher if the duration of exposure is more than 5 days.“This analysis provides some of the first evidence that asymptomatic infections are substantially less infectious than symptomatic cases. It also reinforces growing evidence of the importance of household transmission, especially in the context where symptomatic cases are not isolated outside the home,” said Imperial College professor Neil Ferguson, whose modelling in March led the UK to announce a lockdown to stop transmission, in comments over email. The study was based on a meta-analysis – a uniform statistical review – from 45 contact-tracing studies from around the world published till mid-July. “Where the initial case was asymptomatic, the secondary attack rate was estimated to be two thirds lower (3.5%, 95% CI: 0.0%-6.4%) than when the index case had symptoms (12.8%, 95% CI: 8.9%-16.7%, p = <0.001),” Imperial College’s MRC Centre for Global Infectious Disease Analysis said in a statement.Asymptomatic transmission has been seen as a particular challenge in stopping the spread of Covid-19 since contact-tracing efforts often fail to identify the index patient, who may not have had any signs that they were infected when they passed the virus on. But outbreaks have also perplexed epidemiologists when they noticed that only a small proportion of infected people cause the most number of infections – a so-called superspreader effect. “The differences we observed in transmissibility by symptom status of index cases and duration of exposure have important implications for outbreak control strategies, highlighting how contact tracing, testing and rapid isolation of cases will be crucial,” said lead author Hayley Thompson.The authors also calculated chances of infections in different settings. Among workplace contacts, they found three studies showed there was a 1.9% chance of a secondary infection in an office. In healthcare-based contacts -- exposures in hospitals, clinics etc -- the researchers found a secondary attack rate of 3.6% of all contacts of the average index patients. In social settings, which included people exposed while travelling, at religious events, fitness classes, whilst shopping or at entertainment venues and other social events with family and friends, the pooled attack rate came to about 1.2%.The risk, thus, was highest among household contacts, and the chances increased with time. “Chance of passing on infection in households (the secondary attack rate) estimated to be 21.1% (95% CI: 17.4%-24.8%),” the report added. The researchers found that there were no statistically significant differences in how people of different ages spread the infection.These findings are crucial in order to fix strategies to test, trace and isolate people. “Understanding the conditions where transmission is more likely to occur is essential in guiding policy interventions to reduce transmission whilst balancing the economic impact,” said Imperial College researcher Andria Mousa. “Our results highlight the importance of targeting interventions in settings where close and prolonged contacts occur, as well as the need for further research to inform policies for reducing transmission in workplaces, schools and care-homes,” Mousa added.Thompson, however, added that more studies are required to better understand these patterns. “The number of studies we identified from large scale contract tracing was limited and highlights the need for continued research into further understanding the locations and types of contact that facilitate transmission, especially in schools and workplaces.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/symptomatic-patients-four-times-more-likely-to-spread-virus-study/story-jsQzFWlmvykJYipKsxaAGO.html
29-11-2020||India||BJP accuses Ashok Gehlot govt of horse trading||A video clip circulating on social media showing a Rajasthan Congress MLA accusing two Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) MLAs of receiving Rs 10 crore each during the Rajya Sabha polls and the internal fight in the state unit of the Congress prompted the BJP on Saturday to accuse the Ashok Gehlot government of involvement in horse trading. HT cannot vouch for the authenticity of the video clip. The clip shows Mahendrajeet Singh Malviya saying during a campaign for the panchayat polls in Banswara that each of the two BTP MLAs of Dungarpur received Rs 5 crore during the Rajya Sabha polls and again Rs 5 crore each during the political crisis when former deputy CM Sachin Pilot rebelled against the Gehlot government. Malviya said in the video that he has been in politocs for a long time but not earned so much money.He did not respond to repeated calls and messages seeking comment. Two BTP MLAs -- Ramprasad Dindor (Sagwara) and BTP Rajkumar Roat (Chorasi) -- supported the Congress government during the Rajya Sabha polls and the rebellion by Pilot. Refuting the allegations, BTP MLA Roat said, “The Congress MLA has tried to blame his own party in Rajasthan by levelling the accusations.” Dindor, the other BTP MLA, said, “Malviya was with those who wanted to topple the Congress government, so he could not digest it when he failed. We saved the Congress government in the state.” State BJP president Satish Poonia, tagging the alleged video of Malviya, wrote to Gehlot: “Please enlighten, is it horse trading or Goat Mandi? The statement of the senior Congress leader in this video is just a corroboration of the questions raised by me during herding of MLAs by you.” Commenting on the video, state Congress president Govind Singh Dotasara said, “I cannot verify the authenticity of the video, but if such things are stated, then it is wrong. What is stated is far from the truth.” Gehlot in a statement on Friday alleged that when the Rajasthan government was trying to save lives of people from Covid-19, BJP leaders were making negative statements at the behest of their central leadership.“BJP wants to destabilise the state government in Rajasthan for capturing power with the help of money and muscle power,” Gehlot said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-accuses-gehlot-govt-of-horse-trading/story-3y2rN1VsnR49vY0Etv35WJ.html
29-11-2020||India||Cong names Pawan Bansal as interim treasurer after Ahmed Patel’s death||The Congress on Saturday day announced the appointment of Pawan Bansal, 72, the person in charge of administrative affairs of the party as its interim treasurer after the passing of Ahmed Patel. In a statement, party general secretary KC Venugopal said, “(The move is) an interim measure to look after the duties of treasurer with immediate effect.’’The move is being seen by Congress members as a makeshift arrangement till a permanent Congress President is elected by early next year and chooses a new team. Bansal was the only one immediately able to step intothe role on account of having worked closely with Motilal Vora, who was Congress treasurer between 2002 and 2018 , when his advancing age (he is now 92) forced him to hand over to Patel. There was great urgency to find an able replacement as treasurer, party members said. According to a report by the Association for Democratic Reforms earlier this year, the Congress reported Rs 918 crore of income in 2018-19, which is 361% more than its income in the previous financial year. A former functionary who spoke on condition of anonymity said that the party spends Rs 5-10 crore a month on just general administrative expenses. Traditionally, the post of treasurer has always gone to a seasoned hand with plenty of contacts in states. Bansal is expected to work closely with Chief Ministers such as Rajasthan’s Ashok Gehlot and Punjab’s Amarinder Singh . ”There are two people who sign cheques for a party. The general secretary of a particular department who clears an expense, and the treasurer. Every expense, from salaries to hiring a chartered flight has to go through them,’’ a former office bearer said on condition of anonymity.  Congress leaders remembered the role Patel played as treasurer and senior strategist. “ A treasurer has to not only have the trust and confidence of diverse stakeholders, but the ability to influence, cajole, persuade, pressurise or otherwise ensure that they contribute. These include members of the party as much as non members. He also has to have the knack to create, maintain and sustain long term relationships, irrespective of political ups and downs, Above all, he needs to have the implicit trust of the party on whose behalf he acts and receives. In all this, AP excelled! He was a natural treasurer, though his long innings as a political secretary eclipsed his talents in this role,’’ Rajya Sabha MP Abhishek Manusinghvi said on Friday. Bansal was rail minister in the United Progressive Alliance government but stepped down in 2013 after his nephew was allegedly caught accepting a bribe of almost Rs 90 lakhs for posting an officer on the Railway Board. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) didn’t find any evidence against the minister but charged his nephew Vijay Singla. The Enforcement Directorate filed a chargesheet in the case last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-names-pawan-bansal-as-interim-treasurer-after-ahmed-patel-s-death/story-O0UePEKmU6tGjT0s1JEkaK.html
