03-08-2020||News||NEP can help make India a knowledge-based economy | Opinion||The National Education Policy (NEP) is a game-changer. It is the third policy on education after 1968 and 1986, and paves the way for transformational reform. It comes at an opportune time for the country to be able to reap the benefits of its demographic dividend by 2030 and aligns with the move towards a knowledge-based economy.There are five major aspects of the policy that can potentially transform school education: Focus on foundational learning, universal access to pre-primary education, key-stage assessments to measure learning outcomes, integration of technology in education, and an enabling environment for the private school sector.Prioritising foundational learning by Class 3 is a huge step towards addressing a critical gap in children’s ability to read with meaning and solve basic arithmetic problems. These critical gateway skills help students learn more meaningfully in higher classes and enable critical thinking and problem-solving. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced in May that a national mission on Foundational Literacy and Numeracy (FLN) will be launched later this year. This will give an impetus to the policy’s vision of universal acquisition of foundational skills by 2025.To ensure that we are set up for success on achieving FLN, a few things must be taken into account. There has to be clear goal-setting — a common understanding of well-defined indicators to measure foundational skills such as word recognition and oral reading fluency (ORF). For instance, Peru uses ORF as a learning indicator for literacy, and it is clearly understood by all stakeholders: Students have to fluently read 60 words-per-minute by the end of Class 2 and 90 words-per-minute by the end of Class 3. The government should consider adopting a similar model. Spreading awareness about the importance of FLN such that the community, especially parents, are mobilised to proactively participate in their children’s learning journey too will be a key contributing factor to the mission’s success. Here, it is important to ask how the government intends to ensure that private school students do not get left behind in pursuing the FLN mission.Pre-primary schooling in the early years of a child is the building block to acquiring FLN skills. The policy’s emphasis on ensuring school readiness and making pre-primary education accessible to every child is welcome. The curricular and pedagogical structure has been reconfigured from 10+2 to 5+3+3+4 to take young children into the schooling fold. Children between three-eight years of age will be part of the foundational stage, eight-11 years will undertake preparatory schooling, 11-14 years will attend middle school, and 14-18 will attend secondary classes. The new framework accounts for a child’s growth trajectory in terms of her cognitive and psycho-social development.The policy also calls for the creation of a Performance Assessment Review and Analysis of Knowledge for Holistic Development (PARAKH), a national-level assessment centre that will set the standards, norms and guidelines for student evaluations across school boards. This is an important provision given that large-scale learning assessments are increasingly being used as an important marker for progress made by India’s education system. While Niti Aayog and the ministry of human resource development use it to rank states based on learning outcomes, multilateral organisations like the World Bank and Unesco use it for global benchmarking.Another win is that key-stage assessments will be held for students in Classes 3, 5, and 8 with a focus on learning outcomes. This encourages analytical thinking, moves away from rote learning, and opens up a window for remediation for students who might need additional help. These key-stage assessments will also become an indicator for parents to measure and compare learning across schools. This is an especially important move since in the absence of such an indicator, parents wanting to enrol children in private schools have thus far chosen schools based on proxies for learning such as “school infrastructure” or “English medium”. Reformed board examinations for Classes 10 and 12 with low stakes, and based on conceptual understanding and experiential learning is also an important reform. Education Technology (EdTech) can help children learn at their own pace, a compelling factor given that learning levels of students vary significantly within each class. Establishing the National Educational Technology Forum (NETF), as suggested in the policy, can drive the adoption, implementation, and use of EdTech in schools and homes alike. The key to driving the uptake of EdTech will lie in developing contextually appropriate solutions in vernacular languages that are also cost-effective.Another important provision in the policy is the assessment and accreditation of private schools. Nearly one in two children attends private schools in India because their parents believe that these will provide a better learning environment. But learning levels require urgent attention. This particular provision will perhaps help in easing regulations and create an enabling environment for private schools so that they can focus on improving student learning. We should consider bringing the private school sector into the formal economy; with 120 million enrolled students, it deserves more support.Today’s primary school students will join India’s workforce in 2030, and the policy can play a huge role in making them productive and empowered citizens. Successful implementation of the FLN mission has the potential to make India an economic powerhouse. But efficient implementation in states will be crucial to achieving the goals and targets. The Centre, state governments, philanthropists, non-profit as well as for-profit organisations working in the sector, educators, and parents must all work together. Ashish Dhawan is founder and chairman of Central Square FoundationThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/nep-can-help-make-india-a-knowledge-based-economy/story-sUHSUfFC30sG4JCGhvXZQP.html
03-08-2020||News||It is time to strengthen the anti-defection law | Opinion||The pell-mell in the Congress’ legislative arm in Rajasthan has again brought into focus the vulnerabilities of the anti-defection law. There have been suggestions that the 1985 amendment, which inducted the 10th Schedule in the Constitution, has ceased to be the antidote to the malaise for which it was designed. The past decades have seen numerous circumventions of its provisions to topple regimes through desertions from elected legislatures.As opposed to copybook defections — which are punishable with the loss of House membership — desertions have become the norm. Riding allegedly on the exchange of monies and promises of official positions, they are typified by resignations to bring down the effective strength of the House. That gives ascendance to parties with the wherewithal to lure turncoats. The slipway serves well the legislators willing to be poached. It saves them the ignominy of being divested of membership which inevitably would be their fate for defying the party whip under the 10th Schedule. Such desertions-resignations are also useful because there’s no bar on the deserters returning to the same legislature in the bypolls to vacancies caused by their exit.Such manoeuvrings can only be stalled legislatively. If the stakeholders, especially political parties represented in Parliament, are serious about stemming the rot, they should bring about a consensual amendment to the law to block all routes for the renegade members’ re-election to the same House. A six-year time-bar for contesting elections, as is the case with those guilty of corrupt electoral practices, could be a good deterrent to end circuitous horse-trading.The proffered moratorium may appear too harsh. But it won’t be disproportionate to the magnitude of the offence. Ethically speaking, defections aren’t merely a betrayal of a party or an ideology. They’re a breach of the people’s trust which should be inviolable when the poll-time promise, or pretence, is to serve the electorate.If allowed unhindered, the frequent hijacking of popular mandates could denude our multi-party democracy of its representative character and credibility. The act of the big fish gobbling up the small fish might ensure durable regimes, but not necessarily a diverse society predicated on variegated thought and aspirations. In addition to bolstering the anti-defection law, it will be in order also to read down the omnibus party whips to allow intra-party disagreements on matters other than votes impinging on the viability of regimes. A compact where justice belongs to the stronger is antithetical to all principles of democratic equity. It’s true especially of states with small, easy-to-fracture legislatures. Their record of aaya ram, gaya rams makes them easily malleable entities where tail wags the dog. The point is proved by past instances of defections/desertions in the Northeast, Goa and Haryana. A prime example of it perhaps is the 2006 elevation of an independent legislator, Madhu Koda, as the chief minister of Jharkhand. The tenuous legislative construct of small assemblies is compounded by the preponderance of minuscule parties/pressure groups canvassing ethnic, socio-cultural and sub-regional aspirations. Their obliteration at the altar of political expediency involves the risk of communities losing their voice, getting alienated and dropping out of the national mainstream.In the unitary versus federal tussle, the winner has to be decentralisation of power. A key achievement of the coalition era (1989-2014) at the Centre was the regional parties’ share in governance that helped subdue sub-nationalist, separatist and secessionist tendencies. A testimony to that is the relative peace in the Northeast, Tamil Nadu and Punjab which saw violent movements threatening the country’s integrity.It’s evident then that only a maximal democracy can be optimally interactive. The rule is valid for dispensations at the Centre and in the states; the best platforms for such interactions being the assemblies and Parliament. These sanctum sanctorums that make governments accountable must be preserved the way they are willed by the people.The anti-defection law, as it exists today, permits legislators with two-third strength of their legislature party to break free without losing memberships. It’s this leeway that’s exploited to alter the House arithmetic by balkanising smaller political outfits. The Constitution’s 10th Schedule says: “...the merger of the original political party of a member of a House shall be deemed to have taken place if, and only if, not less than two-thirds of the members of the legislature party concerned have agreed to such merger.” The Schedule’s Para 4 (2) relating to exemption from disqualification only mentions the legislative wing, not the party organisation as a whole.In Rajasthan, the Bahujan Samaj Party has challenged in the high court the “merger” with the Congress of its six legislators constituting more than two-thirds of the party’s strength in the House. It’s for the judiciary now to apply the ratio of the 10th schedule to decide the case — the next hearing of which is scheduled for August 11.Regardless of the court verdict, Parliament must do its bit to buttress the law. For a democracy without Opposition is but a part democracy without choices. vinodsharma@hindustantimes.com The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/it-is-time-to-strengthen-the-anti-defection-law/story-gEG6DbsWmHpbo8KLtjzUNJ.html
