06-08-2020||News||How Mandal changed, and did not change, India||On August 7, 1990, the then prime minister, VP Singh, made a historic announcement in Parliament. Singh declared before both Houses that Other Backward Classes (OBCs) would get 27% reservation in jobs in central government services and public sector units.By giving reservation to OBCs in employment, Singh was fulfilling only one half of the first recommendation of the Mandal Commission. The Mandal Commission was set up on January 1, 1979, under the chairmanship of BP Mandal. It submitted its report on December 31, 1980. The second half of the Commission’s recommendation was the reservation for OBCs in central educational institutions. The OBCs had to wait till 2006 for this.The Mandal Commission had also recommended land redistribution and change in relations of production. It said in its report, “Reservations in government employment and educational institutions, as also all financial assistance will remain mere palliatives unless the problem of backwardness is tackled at its root. Bulk of the small landholders, tenants, agricultural labour, impoverished village artisans, unskilled workers, etc, belong to Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes.”The Commission further commented, “It is the Commission’s firm conviction that a radical transformation of the existing production relations is the most important single step that can be taken for the welfare and upliftment of all backward classes. Even if this is not possible in the industrial sector for various reasons, in the agricultural sector a change of this nature is both feasible and overdue.”No Union government has taken any substantial steps to bring about the structural change that was advocated by the Mandal Commission. We are moving in the opposite direction. Even though OBCs have got 27% reservation in employment and education, implementation remains inadequate. Agriculture, the backbone of the rural economy, has become economically unviable. Industrial capital remains firmly in the hands of the upper castes.Last month, the central government admitted in the Madras High Court (HC) that OBCs were not given reservation in the All India quota of medical seats in courses such as the Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery and Bachelor of Dental Surgery since 1986. This will hopefully change from next year as the HC has given clear directions to set up a committee to look into this issue. But one wonders how many such other cases exist in which OBC reservation is not being implemented just because no one has noticed yet.The Indian Institutes of Management (IIMs), for example, do not offer reservation in teaching posts and have no intention of doing so in the future. These 20 IIMs had requested the Union government to include them in the Institutions of Excellence category, which would exempt them from the implementation of reservation in faculty positions.The data collected by scholars Christophe Jaffrelot and Kalaiyarasan A shows that OBCs occupied only 8.37% posts in the Class A of central government services and only 10.01% of the Class B posts. These figures demonstrate the severe under-representation of the communities that make up more than half of India’s population.The history of reservation for the backward castes goes back to 1902 when Shahu Maharaj, the ruler of the princely state of Kolhapur, reserved 50% jobs for backward castes (all communities except forward groups such as Brahmins, Prabhus, Shenvis and Parsis).When India’s Constitution came into force in 1950, the question of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes was already settled. But what is meant by backward classes and who should be included in this category were questions that remained mired in controversy for decades. The Jawaharlal Nehru government set up a backward classes commission in 1953, which drew up a list of 2,399 communities listing them as backward. But the government did not act on this report.The Nehru dispensation was largely hostile to the idea of accepting caste as the basis for defining backward classes. This view was shared by the upper caste-dominated media and academia too, which would have preferred “secular” criteria such as income, literacy, or occupation. The belief that acknowledging ascriptive units such as caste would make them firmer in the minds of people was held by many. (The secularists have finally won with the institution of quotas for “economically weaker sections”, which makes income a criterion for backwardness.)Due to the government’s inertia, the OBC category could not gain any meaningful traction nationally until August 7, 1990. Retrospectively speaking, the four lost decades did immense harm to OBCs. They remain severely under-represented in government jobs and the corridors of power, and, after the promising start of the 1990s, their political representation, too, has weakened. Hopefully, the 30th anniversary of the Mandal moment will give a new fillip to their politics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-mandal-changed-and-did-not-change-india/story-K9gS9hXivYSKuX5lMYHPPI.html
06-08-2020||News||UNSC: A diplomatic ‘two-front’ war||Stoking diplomatic deadwood in the hope that the embers may catch fire is a parlour game at the United Nations. One of our neighbours — Pakistan — has indulged in this for years. “The India-Pakistan Question”, inscribed on the United Nations Security Council (SC)’s agenda on January 6, 1948, was last considered by SC on November 5, 1965. Yet, on the annual requests of Pakistan, the item has remained an inert part of the Council’s formal agenda. These requests are followed by sundry communications, in a bid to stir the pot. They are circulated and filed. No one is bothered. Then, in August 2019, following changes to Jammu and Kashmir (J&K)’s special status provided in the Indian Constitution, China weighed in favour of its “iron brother” and initiated what was akin to a diplomatic “two-front war”.Using its perch on the Council, China took over the driver’s seat of this venture. Since China did not have the requisite majority to call for a formal meeting, it requested an informal consultation. China proposed a draft outcome statement and lobbied for support. The tussle was transformed into one between a Permanent Member of the Council — China; and a non-member of the Council — India. Pakistan was the cat’s paw in the equation.The duo threw everything into the fray. They argued along the following three axes. Contrary to previous Council decisions, India changed the status quo, violating international law. The change resulted in large-scale human rights violations, leading to a serious humanitarian situation. This, along with India’s military assertiveness along the Line of Control constituted a threat to international peace and security. The Council, which is responsible for maintenance of international peace and security, needed to respond. The same talk that we hear now on India-China issues was voiced then. Can India take on an economy five times its size? Can actions evoking criticism domestically be shielded from global scrutiny? Will a global power, which had sewn up vast swathes with its Belt and Road Initiative, not get broad support against a mid-sized delegation with limited resources? A blow-by-blow account is left for another time. Suffice it to say that then, as now, hubris of global overreach was on display. Then, as now, quiet diplomacy was in play. Then, as now, despite the disparity in the power equation, some stay silent. Then, as now, key partners weigh in our favour. The closed-door outcome was better than expected. The public diplomacy victory was the icing on the cake. More efforts — including one earlier this week — have been made. These follow a slightly different tack. Pakistan writes a letter to the president of the Council. China follows up to raise the matter during closed, informal consultations under “Any Other Business”. The “pinprick” doesn’t yield anything, as overwhelmingly, others aren’t interested. The rubric “Any Other Business” can be used by anyone, to raise anything. Some have used it to prick China about Hong Kong, and in course of discussions also referred to the treatment of Uighurs. Others target Russia by raising matters not on the active agenda. In short, failed “pinpricks” are par for the course. Our overcoming such efforts provides useful “lessons learnt”. First, in August 2019, the People’s Republic of China took the unprecedented step of trying to extricate an agenda item that it had historically never engaged with. When the item was last considered in 1965, it was the Republic of China whose representative sat on the Council. China invalidated the oft-repeated shibboleth that it will handle “differences through peaceful discussion” bearing in mind “sensitivities and concerns”. Despite not succeeding, China keeps trying in other ways. Try, try and try again seems their theme song; never letting our guard down needs to be ours.Second, China, an authoritarian autocracy averse to invoking human rights concerns in Council discussions, opportunistically masqueraded as a champion of human rights in J&K in August 2019. China used a double-edged weapon against us. When those who partner us in thwarting Chinese efforts accuse China of violating human rights, we need to consider whether to continue the approach of keeping our distance or work with them on such issues.Third, when China initially pushed for a discussion on J&K, it cloaked itself as a “concerned” member of the international community. China’s interests in owning a suitable piece of real estate in the region were not obvious to all. China’s actions this summer are increasingly viewed as of a full-fledged party to a dispute. Should it keep treading this path, someone or the other can raise concerns about China’s role, which can lead to China attracting UN provisions that apply to parties to a dispute.Fourth, when confronting “wolf warriors”, we need to better understand the “wolf totem” too. China’s manoeuvres on one front tend to presage, at times, other interventions and may possibly be a precursor to developments on other fronts. We, therefore, require greater coherence in our approach to China, across the board. Fifth, the broader takeaway is that in a fast-evolving multipolar order, bilateral differences among the poles are best addressed appropriately, rather than taken to multilateral platforms and nurtured as disputes. If a pole still persists, then, at best, it would be a “pinprick”, nothing more. No pole, irrespective of its weight relative to the others, can easily sway the rest to the detriment of another pole. The “de facto” realities of a multipolar world are resetting the “de jure” world of multilateralism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/unsc-a-diplomatic-two-front-war/story-FIMwBHAa9BJOCj5pDsbuWN.html
