07-08-2020||News||NEP 2020: Recognising the primacy of early education||Perhaps the most significant change envisioned by the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 is at the very beginning of a child’s educational journey — the first step of the learning ladder. The critical importance of good quality early childhood care and education (ECCE) has been understood by experts for a long time. But by bringing ECCE to the centre of the education stage and by clearly stating that “ECCE is the greatest and most powerful equaliser”, NEP 2020 has given the highest priority to building strong foundations early in a child’s life. The policy document released in its final form last week sees the age group — three to eight — as a continuum. This continuum is not only a conceptual construct; it will need to be operationalised in terms of provision, approach, curriculum and pedagogy. The transitions from pre-primary to primary will have to be made in a way such that each year’s progress builds on the previous year’s learning. The policy document stresses that an urgent national mission is needed to ensure that by the end of class 3, every child has acquired foundational literacy and numeracy skills. Let us stay for the moment with the first building block outlined by the policy — the first five years of a child’s educational life. Already there are debates about difficulties in implementation. Further, in the current context, where fiscal pressures are high, where will the resources come from? Today in India, even at the age of three, at least seven out of 10 children are already enrolled in early childhood centres, according to the Annual Status of Education Report (ASER) 2018. Apart from states such as Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Bihar, in most other states, only one out of every five children at age three is not enrolled anywhere. Therefore, although coverage is not universal, India has come a long way in spreading the net for early childhood centres. Families take decisions on where to send their children, considering available options in their neighbourhoods. On the one hand, private schools, even low-cost ones in rural areas, enrol children in lower kindergarten (KG), who then move to upper KG before entering class I. On the other hand, in the government sector, there are anganwadis in the community as well as those which are physically located within school compounds. In the past, some states such as Assam (with the ka-shreni class) and Bihar (with the bal-varg) have tried to create opportunities for the pre-primary age group. More recently, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh have brought in a pre-primary class into their school structures supporting these initiatives with age and developmentally-appropriate classroom materials, training, and mechanisms for academic support. Thus, while the key blocks for the first step of NEP will have to be strengthened, it is not like they have to be built from scratch.Undoubtedly, there is much to be done. We need to expand access to pre-primary opportunities for those who are still outside the net. Next, it will be essential to introduce and integrate developmentally-appropriate practices both in pre-primary groups and primary grades. This needs to be planned systematically, one step at a time, keeping in mind the goals and ground realities. Further, different departments, parents and teachers must work closely together to ensure a smooth transition from early childhood centres into schools. While at the ground level, many co-located anganwadis and primary schools use common sense to share and maximise resources, convergence at higher levels of their departments and ministries will urgently need to be planned and operationalised. For example, there are roughly 13,000 government primary schools and close to 27,000 anganwadis in Punjab. Of these, well above 10,000 anganwadis are in school compounds. In both Punjab and Himachal Pradesh, where governments are giving serious priority to preparing the pathway from pre-primary to primary, discussions on how to productively bring in anganwadis as an integral part of this process are well underway. Learning from these experiences is essential. It is possible that a careful analysis of budgets from the ground up may show that more effective deployment of existing resources is possible for enabling young children to get more out of their pre-primary experience. NEP 2020 boldly states that if the stage-wise goal of foundational skills is not achieved by class 3, the rest of the policy is irrelevant. It also lays out timelines and asks states to create implementation plans and goals to be achieved by 2025. Every child needs to have a strong start to their educational life. The high priority to early years given in the policy document can give a strong backing to effectively translating policy into practice. Ten years after the Right to Education came into force, let us take bold and much-needed steps to give every child the right to learning. Rukmini Banerji is CEO, Pratham Education FoundationThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/nep-2020-recognising-the-primacy-of-early-education/story-Wj2RjFfMtXI9RaPeiy5p9L.html
07-08-2020||News||August 5: A tribute to the values of the Republic||As the triumphant narratives of August 5, celebrating the bhoomi pujan that marks the beginning of the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya get recorded in history, they will inaugurate a new majoritarian identity for a Republic that was hitherto proudly upheld as a secular, democratic polity where all religions of the nation and their followers had equal rights. Some of us, however, would like to remember this date for a different reason that is cause for celebration as well. August 5, also marked the 60th anniversary of K Asif’s dream project, the magnificent Mughal-e-Azam, that released on this date at Maratha Mandir in Bombay to massive crowds, eagerly awaiting a film that had been 15 years in the making. The difference between the two events — equally popular — could not be starker. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders who were present at the bhoomi pujan, and others who were not in attendance, were instrumental in initiating and encouraging imaginaries of a majoritarian Hindu India. For them, the destruction of a monument such as the Babri masjid, which they claim was built on a site that was the exact birthplace of lord Ram, was crucial to overcome centuries of humiliation at the hands of “foreign rule”. This dream project is now set to be realised, and with it, we will see the birth of a new Republic that goes against the founding principles of this nation. So how does Mughal-e-Azam represent a different imaginary of the Republic? Can a film that has its roots in a play that was written in 1922 in Lahore — Anarkali by Imtiaz Ali Taj; that was read and appreciated by several luminaries all over north India, including Rabindranath Tagore; that was realised on screen several times; and that colonised the imagination of K Asif when he first encountered it in 1944 as a 20-year-old, embody different imaginaries of nationhood, law, governance, the role of the intellectual, the place of dissent, and the power of a self-sacrificing poignant, beautiful legendary romance? Mughal-e-Azam realises on screen not only all these resonances, but also represents an India that respected talent for itself and not for the identity of those involved in creative acts. It recognised that the nation that was born in 1947, with its roots in centuries of pluralism and mutual coexistence of multiple faiths, was equally constituted by the bhakti imaginaries in the bhajans and thumris in praise of Krishna and Ram as it was by Sufi ideas articulated in the qawwalis imbued with conceptions of ishq that brought human and divine love together, without a thought to the sacrifices that this love would demand. Akbar’s court in the film powerfully brings together these traditions. It is a court in which the Janmashtami festival is celebrated with fervour, with Akbar receiving prasad from Jodhaa Bai and performing the ritual of pulling the cord of Krishna’s cradle gently. As a finale of the celebrations, Anarkali dances to the Benaras thumri, mohe panghat pe nand lal ched gayo re. The mise-en-scene and performance forms, including her kathak, are in the tradition of the Rajput courts. Her other kathak performance, articulating the challenge that her love for Salim is to Akbar’s patriarchal and imperial authority, pyar kiya toh darna kya, is, on the other hand, in Islamicate registers in mise-en-scene, lyrics, and performance codes. Jodhaa Bai maintains her Hindu identity, one that Akbar respects. This is indicated not only in the Janmashtami sequence, but also in his desire that his queen sends him off to battle with the customary tilak and handing over of the sword representing her wishes for his success as per Rajput custom. That Man Singh has a prominent role in the upbringing of Prince Salim is another indication that in Akbar’s court, Rajput Hindus had significant functions to perform. However, these are not the only reasons why Mughal-e-Azam embodies a vision of India that is different from the one that is being realised in Ayodhya. Along with its articulation of the poignant tale of Anarkali and Salim’s doomed love in deeply poetic, spiritual and emotional terms, the film is also a statement about how the right to challenge authority should be an individual right. As Anarkali sings of her fearless love in contravention of the diktats of the emperor; as Salim states his freedom to love when he says that his heart is not Hindustan over which the emperor can claim autocratic rights of rule; or as the poet, artist and sculptor, Sangtarash, asserts the right and freedom of intellectuals to critique authority and power and attempt to awaken authoritarian figures to the destructive implications of their actions, the film can be seen as articulating a vision for a new post-colonial democratic India. This is a vision in which the right to dissent and critique ought to be recognised as a fundamental right. That the Indian Constitution guarantees this right, along with the right to practise and believe in non-Hindu faiths, and that Mughal-e-Azam embodies these and celebrates an India that made such a vision possible, is a value that we need to cherish and preserve as a new India is born.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/august-5-a-tribute-to-the-values-of-the-republic/story-D5Z8gQoPcq0BpVx4blN9kL.html
