19-08-2020||News||For his vision and actions, Bihar trusts Nitish Kumar | Opinion||If the Election Commission (EC) decides to conduct the 2020 Bihar assembly elections in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic, the exercise will be a watershed event for several reasons.The first critical change will be the showcasing of the power, versatility and the near-universal application of the digital and virtual media as the primary medium of campaigning, voter connect, and possibly also the casting of votes.The second, and most vital, aspect of this election will be a paradigm shift in the electoral plank. The clichéd bijli, sadak, paani (power, roads, water) trope will no longer hold. I feel that the main determinant to shaping voter perception in this election will be centred on delivery — assured delivery to be precise. And this is where the incumbent chief minister (CM), Nitish Kumar, has no competition.Nitish is not just a visionary, but an energetic doer. A product of socialist and youth movements, his politics and policies are guided by principles of equality, justice, social welfare and progress. He stands out among the select group of politicians who have been in public life for over four decades. As Union minister, and then as CM of Bihar, he has gone through all the rough and tumble of politics. He has never strayed from his principles in his stewardship of the state.He has used his successive stints as CM to deliver on basic amenities such as electricity, water, social security, road connectivity and, most important, law and order. So, it is little wonder that bijli, sadak, paani are issues of the past.The Bihar of today is a far cry from the one that we inherited in 2005. We have round-the-year connectivity to the farthest corners of the state, thanks to the 27,000 kilometres of state highways and district roads and 96,417km of rural roads completed over the last 15 years. We have moved to being a power-surplus state with all of Bihar’s villages on the electricity grid. Today, even far-flung rural areas get 20 hours or more of electricity.The state’s piped water supply scheme — Har Ghar Nal ka Jal — which is close to connecting every household with piped potable water, on the lines of a similar central government scheme, was conceived by Nitish in the early days of his current term. It has been executed on schedule. This August 15, the CM promised that, if re-elected, he would ensure water for every plot in Bihar. This will give agriculture in the state a critical push and help farmers harvest three-to-four crops annually. And the CM’s record shows that he delivers on his promises. Nitish’s name has come to be associated, even in the remotest parts of the state, with roads, electricity, drinking water, the girl child’s education, women’s empowerment and access to public services. This means that the expectations from him are enormous.With such expectations, there will be some dissatisfaction which will also be expressed. But this is because he has set the benchmark very high and people feel confident in expressing their satisfaction and grievances. This is a sign of the trust that people repose in him.His opponents may feel that anti-incumbency will work against him, but there is little evidence on the ground to support this. No other public figure or political opponent comes even remotely close to generating the public confidence Nitish does. At the more subliminal level though, his appeal is also based on his having revived the image of Bihar, and all things Bihari, cutting across all castes and creeds. While Biharis were once thought of as rustic and laggardly, today they are considered hardworking and persevering, thanks to the model of development pursued by the CM namely nyay ke saath vikas (justice and development).One must remember that Bihar was in a dismal state when Nitish took charge in 2005. It soon moved to a double-digit growth rate through an entire decade. Successive governments led by Nitish had to work on many fronts — systemic reforms, robust governance and social mobilisation. It was the first state to implement 50% reservation for women in panchayats. Bihar’s espousal of many social engineering initiatives aimed primarily at empowerment, among them the girl child’s education, prohibition, curbing child labour, and the Jal Jeevan Hariyali Abhiyan targeted at addressing the climate crisis, have all been important cogs in the wheel of Bihar’s makeover that Nitish has diligently crafted over 15 years.Not surprisingly, this makeover is integral to the consciousness of every individual. It can be seen in the way they conduct themselves in their daily lives, in the confidence with which many women transact business across the million-strong self-help groups of Jeevika, in the images of young girls cycling through Bihar’s village roads to schools and, indeed, in the ease with which trade and commerce are carried out daily.For several generations of voters, this revitalisation of their collective persona is too precious to compromise with. The modern voter is discerning enough to tell the difference between propaganda and real promises. They will be selective about who they will vote for in the elections. They will want continuity and development, they will not give up on the gains they have made during the last 15 years. They will vote for a new, resurgent Bihar. Sanjay Kumar Jha is national general secretary, JD(U) and minister, water resources, Government of BiharThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/for-his-vision-and-actions-bihar-trusts-nitish-kumar/story-DSQM3vaTGVj9x7qyuZ5FlO.html
19-08-2020||News||How Nitish Kumar has halted Bihar’s progress, writes Tejashwi Prasad Yadav||The coronavirus pandemic has exposed the colossal failure of the leadership in Bihar. Disturbing images from the state have shown the reality of sushasan (good governance) for what it is. While several other states have grown rapidly over the past decade, Bihar, under Nitish Kumar, has been on a downward spiral.Development is an evolving process and its trajectory is shaped by the size and direction of the national economy. Our party, the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), formerly the Janata Dal, was in power in the state from 1990-2005.In 1990, my father, Lalu Prasad, took over a state crippled by huge debt, gross social inequality, rampant corruption and social and political discrimination against the communities on the margins. My mother, Rabri Devi, was chief minister (CM) from 1997 to 2005. During this time, there was significant progress on all these parameters. In hindsight, we realise that the 1990s required immediate intervention in correcting an unequal social and political order. It also needed leading from the front to achieve the goals of social justice for oppressed and vulnerable citizens so that they could get a sense of belonging in a structure which had turned its back on them. My father is secular to the core. He did not mind risking his government when it came to saving the people under attack by the forces which threatened to destroy the social fabric and composite culture of India.Remarkable progress was achieved in education, health, social sector and the economy. When Lalu Prasad became CM, he started the recruitment of teachers through competitive examinations under the Bihar Public Service Commission, thereby bringing transparency into the process. A series of such reforms to ensure a level-playing field for everyone posed a serious challenge to the hegemony and dominance of some caste supremacists. Initiatives such as this became a trigger for sinister conspiracies to defame and frame him. The rest, as they say, is history.Nitish did some good work in his first term (2005-2010) as every freshman does in his probation period. But in his successive terms, from 2010 onwards, he faltered in evolving any sort of inclusive development agenda for the state. Instead, by spending huge amounts on image-building exercises, he was able to project himself as an able administrator and mask his failures. The state performed poorly on all indices of every government evaluation report. Going by data, the situation went downhill after 2005.Today, Bihar’s per capita income is the lowest in the country, and its per capita debt is the highest. It is high on unemployment and crime. Outward migration from Bihar for work and education is the highest in the country. The CM has ruined the education, health, agriculture and industry sectors. Operating factories, sugar and jute mills were shut down and no new industries were set up. Public health care has collapsed as is evident in the Covid-19 crisis. He gave powers to mukhiyas (headmen) to directly recruit teachers and set the terrible precedent of hiring on a contractual basis. Corruption is institutionalised to such an extent that not a single bit of work gets down without bribing officials — from getting a caste/nativity certificate to filing the First Information Reports. Bihar is perhaps the only state where bridges collapse even before their inauguration, roads cannot withstand one monsoon and dams are damaged by rats. As many as 57 huge scams involving colossal amounts of money have come to light. Clearly, Nitish abandoned governance and public welfare from his second term onwards, and spent all the state’s resources on trying to stay in power. Ties between the Janata Dal (United) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) started worsening in his second innings. In 2013, he snapped ties with the BJP and made Jitan Ram Manjhi the CM in 2014. Then, in 2015, he joined hands with the RJD and became the CM again. True to type, he ditched us in 2017 and again tied up with the BJP and remained the CM. But this game of thrones has cost the state dearly in terms of development.During his tenure, which still continues, Nitish has turned Bihar into a wasteland. For him, image is all. He announced the prohibition on alcohol and dowry to project himself as a reformer. But the reality is that there is home delivery of liquor, and no marriage takes place without a dowry. Thanks to a favourable media, he has got away with it by conveniently blaming our party for his shortcomings.But now the day of reckoning is approaching. In each election, he has gone out to seek votes, not based on his track record, but by making personal accusations against my family. He and his party will stop at nothing to come up with some evidence or the other to defame my family and our party. But it must be asked how these personal attacks are of any benefit to the state.Over his 15-year rule, we have seen how this negative politics has proved disastrous for Bihar. It diverts attention from the bigger picture and puts paid to any prospect of progress. Now it is time to consider whether we should trust a person who constantly talks about the past to lead us into the future. The strength of electoral democracy is that the key to power is in the hands of the people.I can only hope that the wisdom of my compatriots from Bihar will bring in a progressive government in this new decade, one which collectively works for the peace and prosperity of the beleaguered state.Tejashwi Prasad Yadav is the leader of Opposition, BiharThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-nitish-kumar-has-halted-bihar-s-progress/story-oRCtQSjXDyQOypZl86IhxM.html
