31-08-2020||News||How to secure India against Covid-19||How can India vaccinate a billion-plus people? How would the system work?First, the government will maintain a list of approved vaccines. This list will change, as some get dropped, and others get approved. Second, the government will set a rate per vaccination for each vaccine. Finally, after due diligence, it will create a list of Authorised Vaccinators. These could be government hospitals, reputed private hospitals, diagnostic chains, even pharmacies. Another ecosystem will have to be nurtured to train and certify a few hundred thousand people on how to administer vaccines. Specifications and templates will be distributed for vaccination stations which can be permanent, pop-up, or mobile for making it available anywhere. The government will distribute a standard vaccination software on smartphones and laptops, for the data of every vaccination to be captured in real-time and sent to a central database with proper security, privacy and encryption. With this approach, at least 100,000 vaccination stations can be set up across the country over a year, while vaccine production is simultaneously scaled up.A critical requirement will be the supply chain, including cold chain infrastructure. Vaccine sales will be between approved vaccine vendors and the Authorised Vaccinators; they will have to figure out the cold chain. An entire economy could spring up — new mobile cold chains with refrigerated trucks, or repurposed existing cold chains. People should be able to go to any vaccination station in the country anytime to get a shot. They can also book a slot online. People entering a station and then first authenticate themselves using Aadhaar, phone number, any other digitally authenticable ID. A certified vaccinator will vaccinate them. The data from the vaccination will be uploaded. This data will includes the name and ID of the vaccinator and the recipient, details of the vaccine, and the pre-paid voucher (more on this shortly). The money (for administering the shot) will be credited immediately to the Authorised Vaccinator, and the central database will issue an instant digital certificate. The certificate can be downloaded to the person’s smartphone, printed or stored in a digital locker. The whole process should take about 10 minutes. At 50 vaccinations per day per station, India could do five million vaccinations per day.The digital certificate will be globally portable and verifiable. While the idea of an immunity passport has been questioned, a certificate of immunisation is part of the International Health Regulations for diseases such as yellow fever, there is a precedent for such documentation. With this, the vaccinated person would be able to travel anywhere. If we find that vaccines induce limited immunity, then there will be an expiry date on the certificate, and the person will have to get revaccinated. If it is a dual dose vaccine, then only a provisional certificate will be issued, with the date for the second dose mentioned. The system can enable people to get vaccinated at a date, time, and location of their choice. All payments by the people getting vaccinated will be through pre-paid vouchers, and rates could drop over time with volumes. People who can afford it should and will pay for their vaccines. The government will pay to vaccinate all health workers, its employees and their families, and the poor and vulnerable. Payments can be enabled by giving a DBT voucher, which is only accepted for vaccination. Companies could provide vouchers for all their employees and their families. Philanthropies and corporate foundations could also distribute these vaccination vouchers. These vouchers could be digital or printed for those without phones. The government can issue guidelines to streamline procurement from vaccine manufacturers by Authorised Vaccinators.Since monitoring is part of the life cycle of any vaccine, a digital record of vaccination and a link to self-reported side effects could strengthen India’s vaccine safety surveillance. A sophisticated system could be built on top of this vaccination infrastructure using anonymised aggregate data. For example, if there is a rise in cases of Covid-19 in spite of vaccination in some areas, it would indicate that the efficacy of one of the vaccines used is lower than anticipated. A rise in some symptoms would mean there are unexpected side effects. Artificial Intelligence could be used for predictive analysis.Initially, when vaccines are scarce, this system will be rolled out in a small scale and only through Authorised Vaccinators from the government. The initial vaccines will be directed strategically at health care and other essential workers, and the vulnerable.The task ahead is fraught with risks from new vaccines, privacy issues, and objections from those reluctant to get vaccinated. There will be important decisions on equity, inclusion, priority, privacy, and choice. Yet, we have no choice but to go ahead.This system may look daunting, but we are fortunate that India has many digital building blocks which can be used. Apart from the JAM trinity, the payment system UPI can be used to create the infrastructure for pre-paid vouchers. This vaccination system is fully aligned with and will accelerate, the National Digital Health Mission announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 15. Everyone can choose to opt for a health ID and an Electronic Health Record along with their vaccination details. The digital vaccination certificate, as well as the electronic health record, can be stored in MEITY’s DigiLocker. The training modules for vaccinators can be set up on IGOT, the online learning portal, launched by the department of personnel and training and hosted on the ministry of education’s Diksha platform. If advanced training is required, the ECHO platform being used by the ministry of health can be leveraged. Best practices can be learnt from the way in which the Election Commission conducts general elections. Call centres and other digital infrastructure created by the National Health Authority can be used to identify and inform those who should get government-funded vaccination based on Ayushman Bharat. The Government e-Marketplace (GEM), set up by the ministry of commerce and industry, can list approved vaccines and prices for Authorised Vaccinators to order their supplies. The ministry of finance has experience in large scale DBT. Importantly, building a new delivery system for public health strengthens the ability of the ministry of health and other ministries such as women and child development to deliver other interventions at scale. Many fine bureaucrats who worked on the Aadhaar project are at senior levels in the government or have just retired and will be happy to come forward to contribute their expertise. And any number of ace technologists will volunteer to make this happen as it is truly an emergency.Vaccinating the whole country as soon and as safely as possible to get things back to some normalcy post-pandemic is the need of the hour. This needs to be accomplished by a national mission, not a departmental or ministry project. All arms of the government and public sector, private sector and civil society need to participate as partners. If we can take this approach, we will set a global benchmark on how to get past the pandemic. A combined response, leveraging each other’s strengths, is self-reliance (atmanirbhar) at its best.(This is the final part of a two-part opinion piece on a possible framework for vaccine delivery in India) Nandan Nilekani, chairman and co-founder of Infosys, was the first chairman of the Unique Identification Authority of India, which set up Aadhaar The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-to-secure-india-against-covid-19/story-0HGNCAvDfFHtG9O8CBmDqL.html
31-08-2020||News||Social media: The new theatre of India’s culture wars||The phenomenal rise of social media (SM) platforms such as Facebook, Twitter and others is proving to be a double-edged sword in the functioning of democracies. On the one hand, it has democratised access to information. On the other hand, it has concentrated power over that information with a handful of private companies, their billionaire owners, and certain ideologically committed activist groups.Billions of netizens around the world now feel empowered to bypass traditional curators of information, such as journalists and editors, in searching for their choice of content. They have also become creators and disseminators of content, not just consumers of it. This is further accentuated by tech platforms directing more content at people similar to what they have already seen, thus creating echo chambers of like-minded groups.This is already known. What is happening now, however, is the next stage of that transformation in how information is generated, disseminated, and consumed, and it is directly impacting how democracies function. There is a global war underway, involving the role of SM and freedom of expression, which is an extension of the culture wars between the Left and Right.India is seeing the early skirmishes of the online version of this war, which has already progressed to a much higher intensity elsewhere, most notably the United States (US). In America’s bitterly polarised polity, the frontline of this war is a battle between Twitter and President Donald Trump. The former’s flagging of a presidential tweet as fake news, and the latter’s executive order altering the liability of SM platforms who edit content, is worth understanding better.One of the most stark aspects of the West’s culture wars has been its erosion of the right to freedom of expression, which had been a hallmark of its modern democracies. Especially since the early 20th century, US Supreme Court rulings by the legendary Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes, interpreting its Constitution’s first amendment, had established what many considered a gold standard of free speech.While those struggles for free speech had pushed for more freedom, even to say and write very unpleasant things, the intensification of the West’s culture wars in this century has seen a reversal of that trend. Curbs on hate speech became widely accepted and implemented. But, thereafter, there has been a relentless push by so-called woke activists for ever more curbs on speech, often implemented forcefully and without consensus, based solely on political correctness.A key aspect of this has been the shift from earlier activism against governments clamping down on speech to a focus instead on pushing media, and especially SM, to impose curbs on politically incorrect speech.The irony in this new activism for speech curbs is that it is being championed by those who call themselves liberals. Of course, this does not represent classical liberal philosophy, and is instead a reflection of the far-Left takeover of present-day liberalism. This is visible around the world, whether in the forced withdrawal of a US academic’s paper contradicting the zeitgeist about race relations, or in the unsavoury departures of senior staff at the once venerable New York Times, after they had dared to publish op-eds reflecting Centre-Right views. In India, this bullying has manifested itself in the ganging up by self-avowed “liberal” authors to stop the publication of a book contradicting their narrative on this year’s Delhi riots.Such far-Left canons have now invaded the realm of big tech firms. That should hardly be a surprise, considering Silicon Valley’s preference for recruiting “liberal” and “woke” employees. Books and articles by conservative authors such as Douglas Murray and business journalists such as George Anders have documented explicit hiring policies, practices and statistics to confirm Left-wing dominance among SM employees. It was, therefore, inevitable that employee activism would push these platforms into adopting leftist, illiberal policies.The inconsistencies in those policies show up when SM platforms apply selective standards, such as when Twitter was accused of hypocrisy for not flagging or proscribing the aggressive, warlike tweet of a West Asian leader. President Trump’s executive order directly impacts this. In US law, SM had been protected against the kind of liabilities — such as defamation — that traditional news media are subject to, on the grounds that SM are simply platforms for others’ opinions and did not edit or otherwise shape that information. But now that they are, by flagging, shadow banning, or deleting posts and accounts, the Trump order echoes many voices that had been asking for SM to be treated on par with media outlets.A similar battle is raging about SM giants’ abuse of their massive power by sourcing news from media companies without paying for it, and then disseminating and profiting from it. Despite a bitter legal struggle, Australia is likely to become the first nation to require Google to pay for such content.These battles are relevant to India, which is both the largest democracy as well as one of the largest user bases for SM platforms. Some of these battles have already begun here, such as the recent Indian version of the West’s leftist pressure on Facebook to put curbs on Right-wing posts. It is time to broaden the dialogue here about how India ought to respond.Baijayant ‘Jay’ Panda is vice-president of the Bharatiya Janata Party, and a former Member of Parliament.The views expressed personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/social-media-the-new-theatre-of-india-s-culture-wars/story-ybjwIGxW1kNZ3TTJFN5uUM.html
31-08-2020||News||How to vaccinate a billion people||The inventor of the polio vaccine Jonas Salk said: “Our biggest responsibility is to be good ancestors”. India is approaching a big decision; whether we will take one to two years or three to five years to vaccinate 1.3 billion people. History will judge whether we were good ancestors by this decision. The difference could be thousands of lives, millions of livelihoods, hundreds of bankruptcies, unsustainable public finances, and ₹2-3 lakh crore in bad loans. In recent times, the one government initiative that has physically reached a billion people is Aadhaar enrolment. In 2009, some of us were grappling with how to enrol at speed, scale and quality. We realised that the traditional model, where the government procured thousands of enrolment kits would not cut it. We came up with a different model. The Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) appointed registrars such as state governments, private and public banks, and the post office, to carry out enrolment. In turn, these registrars hired enrolment agencies from a UIDAI-approved list.  The agencies bought UIDAI-approved enrolment kits directly from vendors of biometric devices. The operators of the enrolment kits were certified through another ecosystem. Enrolment operations were quickly set up nationwide. At its peak, there were some 35,000 stations that could enrol up to 1.5 million residents a day. The reimbursement was ₹50 per successful Aadhaar generated. This public-private partnership is how we managed comprehensive coverage — and fast. The result: 600 million residents got their Aadhaar in four years, and a billion in 5.5 years. The response to the pandemic needs to be even faster.India is uniquely placed to offer vaccination for the entire population at speed and scale. The experience of Aadhaar enrolment is helpful, as is the infrastructure provided by Aadhaar. Now that everyone can be authenticated online, either using Aadhaar or using mobile phones, be it by biometrics or OTP, it creates a new paradigm. For example, we can allow anytime-anywhere vaccination, where a person can walk into a vaccination station nearby, have a choice to get authenticated with Aadhaar or phone number and get a shot — all in minutes. India is the vaccine capital of the world. Serum Institute of India is the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer, with a capacity to manufacture 1.2 billion vaccine doses a year. It has partnerships with vaccine makers Oxford/AstraZeneca, Novavax and Codagenix. Zydus Cadila has started Phase 2 clinical trials of its vaccine ZYCoV-D. If successful, it says it can manufacture 100 million vaccines a year. Bharat Biotech has begun Phase 2 trials of its indigenous vaccine developed with Indian Council of Medical Research and the National Institute of Virology. It says it will have a capacity of 200 million doses per year. Biological E has tied up with Johnson&Johnson. With the acquisition of Akorn India Pvt Ltd, it expects to have a capacity of one billion doses per year. There are other firms, and other vaccines too.Sure, things remain uncertain. Some vaccines may be unsuccessful; some may require two doses or may need to be repeated after a few months. The capacities may be overstated, and some of that capacity will be exported. Even after that, it is still reasonable to assume that India will have adequate vaccine supplies at some stage. If any of the vaccines fail, the capacity earmarked for the failed vaccine can be used to manufacture a successful vaccine of the same type.Given what we know of India’s capacity for vaccine manufacture, it is important that the system design for vaccination roll-out is based not on vaccine scarcity, but vaccine adequacy. Even if we don’t start that way, India should reach adequacy by the end of 2021. We are not distributing a precious resource, we are trying to deliver fast and far, a vaccine that everyone needs. India has a long and accomplished history of immunisation. But that infrastructure can’t be used because the immunisation that is now required — over one billion, possibly two billion, vaccinations in less than two years — is very different in speed and scale to the current system, which is limited to 25 million infants born each year, and pregnant women. The Covid-19 vaccine will have to be universal. And finally, if we load Covid-19 vaccination on the current vaccination infrastructure, it will be overwhelmed. It is possible that for three to five years, the regular workload of all childhood vaccinations for infants will be disrupted, endangering over 100 million babies. Our success in polio is commendable, but it is vital to remember polio is an oral vaccine that an untrained care worker can administer at the recipient’s home.The current vaccine infrastructure requires the government buying the vaccines and then distributing them. Government procurement works well when we have stable and proven vaccines. However, in the Covid-19 scenario, which is exceptionally dynamic and varied, there will be a large number of vaccines available with varying safety, efficacy, length of immunity, dosage, etc. As soon as the first vaccines becomes available, there will be pressure on the government to purchase large quantities and start distributing immediately. However, in this approach, the government, and ultimately the people of India, take on many risks. If, after a few months, there are unacceptable side effects, or the vaccine does not work as well as expected, or fortuitously a better, cheaper vaccine comes along, then the procured stocks will become worthless. At this time, the issue is likely to be politicised and the usual finger-pointing, CAG audit will start and cripple further efforts.There is a better way.(This is the first part of a two-part opinion piece on a possible framework for vaccine delivery in India. The second part will appear on Tuesday) Nandan Nilekani, chairman and co-founder of Infosys, was the first chairman of the Unique Identification Authority of India, which set up Aadhaar The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-to-vaccinate-a-billion-people/story-9Tc4QzQpWNVGgSJQIBMfCP.html
