01-01-2021||New Delhi||COVID-19: 585 fresh cases, 21 deaths in Delhi; positivity rate 0.73 pc||Delhi recorded 585 fresh COVID-19 cases and 21 new fatalities on Friday, even as the positivity rate stood at 0.73 per cent, authorities said.The infection tally in the city stands at over 6.25 lakh and the death toll rose to 10,557, they said, adding that over 80,000 tests were conducted on the previous day.From December 21-23, the daily cases count had been below the 1000-mark.    On December 21, 803 cases were reported; 939 on December 22 and 871 on December 23.However, on December 24, 1,063 cases were recorded, dropping again to 758 on December 25 and 655 on December 26. On December 27, 757 cases were recorded while on December 28, the daily case count was 564, the lowest in the last five months.                             On December 29 and 30, the city recorded 703 and 677 cases, respectively. On December 31, 574 cases were recorded.These 585 cases came out the 80,565 tests conducted on the previous day, including 46,228 RT-PCR tests and 34,337 rapid antigen tests, according to the latest bulletin issued by the Delhi health department.On August 17, Delhi had recorded 787 cases, and 652 on August 16.The number of active cases on Friday dropped to 5,358 from 5,511 the previous day.The bulletin said that the total number of cases has climbed to 6,25,954. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/covid-19-585-fresh-cases-21-deaths-in-delhi-positivity-rate-0-73-pc-192310
01-01-2021||New Delhi||Police issue over 1,300 challans on New Year's Eve in Delhi||The Delhi Police has issued over 1,300 challans, including for drunken driving, on New Year's Eve across the national capital, officials said on Friday. The data shared by the police showed that cases of drunken driving have gone down this year compared to the previous year. According to the police, 26 challans were issued for drunken driving this year. However, in 2019, 203 people were booked for drunken driving. All the challans under drunken driving were issued after medically examining the offenders, police said. Earlier, the Delhi Police had said the alcometers (device to measure alcohol content in a breath sample) will not be used in the city due to the COVID-19 outbreak. If anybody is found driving in an inebriated state,  action will be taken after their proper medical check-up. A total of 174 challans were issued for dangerous driving and 706 for unauthorised parking, police said. The total number of challans issued are 1,336. A total of 221 vehicles were towed away. Last year, a total 1,012 challans were issued, they said. Police said traffic congestion and violations were much less this time. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/police-issue-over-1-300-challans-on-new-years-eve-in-delhi-192308
01-01-2021||New Delhi||Protesting farmers stay put in severe Delhi cold as stalemate continues||Thousands of farmers dug in their heels at protest venues outside several Delhi gateways, undeterred by the biting cold and firm in their resolve to not return home till their demands are met, as the New Year dawned with the minimum temperature dipping to 1.1 degrees Celsius.The government and the farm unions had reached some common ground on Wednesday to resolve the protesting farmers' concerns over the rise in power tariff and penalties for stubble burning, but the two sides remained deadlocked over the main contentious issues of the repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee for MSP.After the sixth round of negotiations between three union ministers and a 41-member representative group of thousands of farmers protesting on Delhi borders, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar had said at least 50 per cent resolution has been reached with mutual agreement on two out of four items on the agenda and discussions would continue on the remaining two on January 4.Security remained tight at the national capital's borders with hundreds of personnel deployed at Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri border points, where the farmers have been camping for more than a month now, braving the severe Delhi winter.The city recorded a minimum temperature of 1.1 degrees Celsius on Friday, the lowest in 15 years for the month of January.Meanwhile, the Samkyukt Kisan Morcha is likely to meet during the day to discuss its next course of action.There is, however, no question of withdrawing from the two issues which are legal guarantee for minimum support price (MSP) and repealing of the farm laws, senior farmer leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni has said."The government has addressed our demands to drop penal provisions against farmers in an ordinance relating to stubble burning and to put on hold a proposed electricity amendment law," he said.The sixth round of talks was originally scheduled for December 9, but it was called off after an informal meeting of Home Minister Amit Shah. Tribune Photo: Manas Ranjan Bhui."But, we want to make it clear that there is no alternative to our two remaining demands which include repeal of the three agriculture laws and legal guarantee for MSP," Chaduni added.The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, one of the protesting farm unions, has issued a statement saying the Centre's appeal to farmer leaders to suggest an alternative to repeal of the laws is impossible."The new laws will hand over control of agriculture markets, farmers' land and food chain to corporates," it added.The sixth round of talks was originally scheduled for December 9, but it was called off after an informal meeting of Home Minister Amit Shah with some union leaders failed to reach any breakthrough. The protests have also led to traffic congestions, forcing the police to divert vehicular movement.Taking to Twitter on Friday, the Delhi Traffic Police alerted commuters about the routes that remained closed owing to the agitation and suggested them to take alternative roads."Tikri, Dhansa Borders are closed for any Traffic Movement. Jhatikara Borders is open only for LMV (Cars/ Light Motor Vehicles), two-wheelers and pedestrian movement," it tweeted."The Chilla and Ghazipur Borders are closed for traffic coming from Noida & Ghaziabad to Delhi because of farmer protests. Please take alternate route for coming to Delhi via Anand Vihar, DND, Apsara, Bhopra & Loni Borders."Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Saboli & Mangesh borders closed. Please take alternate route via Lampur Safiabad, Palla & Singhu school toll tax borders.Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK road. Please avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK Road & NH-44," it said in a series of tweets."Available Open Borders to Haryana are Jharoda (Only Single Carriageway/Road), Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH-8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera Borders," the Delhi Traffic Police said in another tweet.Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middleman and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country.However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of MSP and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.The government has repeatedly asserted that the MSP and mandi systems will stay and has accused the Opposition of misleading the farmers.In Jind, 14 khap panchayats adopted resolutions to boycott BJP Members of Parliament and Members of Legislative Assembly. They have also decided to boycott BJP's public meetings, and said they would hold up black flags to BJP lawmakers visiiting the district.  They also called for a boycott of products made by the Ambani and Adani Groups, as well as Patanjali. — TNS/PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/protesting-farmers-stay-put-in-severe-delhi-cold-as-stalemate-continues-192232
01-01-2021||New Delhi||Severe cold wave in Delhi; temperature dips to lowest in 14 years||A severe cold wave swept Delhi on New Year's Day as the mercury plummeted to 1.1 degrees Celsius, the lowest in 14 years, and "very dense" fog lowered visibility to "zero" metre, affecting traffic movement.On January 8, 2006, the city had recorded a minimum of 0.2 degree Celsius.The lowest minimum temperature recorded in January last year was 2.4 degrees Celsius, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, said "very dense" fog lowered visibility to "zero" metre at Safdarjung and Palam at 6 am.According to the IMD, "very dense" fog is when visibility is between 0 and 50 metres. In case of "dense" fog, visibility is between 51 and 200 metres, "moderate" 201 and 500 metres, and "shallow" 501 and 1,000 metres.The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum of 1.1 degrees Celsius, the lowest in January in 14 years.Also read:Chandigarh, most of Punjab and Haryana, colder than Shimla; read whyHisar recorded the coldest-ever New Year morning at -1.2 degree CelsiusIn pictures: Cold wave continues in Punjab, Haryana; Hisar shivers at minus 1.2Delhi recorded a minimum of 3.3 degrees Celsius on Thursday. At 15.2 degrees Celsius, the city recorded the season's lowest maximum temperature on December 18.Srivastava said the minimum temperature would start rising under the influence of an "intense" western disturbance which would affect northwest India from January 2 to January 6.The minimum temperature is predicted to rise to 8 degrees Celsius by January 4-5.Light rain is also expected in the national capital under the influence of the western disturbance from January 3 to 5.The western disturbance would lead to moderate snow in the western Himalayan region, the IMD said.In the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature dips to 4 degrees Celsius. A severe cold wave is when the minimum is 2 degrees Celsius or less.A cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and is 4.5 notches less than normal.A "severe" cold wave is when the minimum temperature dips to two degrees Celsius or the departure is more than 6.4 degrees.The average minimum temperature in Delhi in December was the second-lowest in 15 years.Data released by the IMD on Thursday showed that the mean minimum temperature (MMT) this December was 7.1 degrees Celsius. It was 7.6 degrees Celsius last year. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/severe-cold-wave-in-delhi-temperature-dips-to-lowest-in-14-years-192211
01-01-2021||Sanjay Yadav||Night curfew in Delhi, party time in Gurugram||Gurugram, December 31Out to beat Covid blues, Gurugram is all set to party hard this New Year. A bit relaxed compared to last few years, the authorities have gone a bit easy this year as they will not bar cars in party hubs.POLICE ON ALERTThe police say checking drunken driving will be a major challenge amid lack of alcometersAll pubs, bars and restaurants have made arrangements for their guests to celebrate the New YearIn a bid to ensure hassle-free festivities, the police have deployed 4,000 personnel in the districtMore than 1,500 cops will be deployed in the east police zone. Besides deploying a huge force, there are plans to make MG Road safe and smooth for trafficWith Delhi imposing night curfew, Gurugram is dealing with diversion of all party goers. The police are on alert, suspecting heavy rush.The police say checking drunken driving will be a major challenge amid lack of alcometers. All pubs, bars, hotels and restaurants have made arrangements for their guests to celebrate the New Year.In a bid to ensure hassle-free festivities, Gurugram police have deployed 4,000 personnel in the district.More than 1,500 cops will be deployed in the east police zone. Besides deploying a huge force, there are plans to make MG Road safe and smooth for traffic.Unlike last year, the police have not declared MG Road as a car-free zone. However, parking on the roadside and outside malls will be prohibited. Visitors have been asked to park their vehicles in specific areas meant for parking.“All cops will work together to ensure law and order and maintenance of peace. We have deployed extra force in all sensitive areas and there will be regular checking. We have put special checking points at roads leading to Gurugram from other districts. Police teams in supervision of ACP and DCP rank officers will check the areas to ensure safety, security and hassle free festivities,” said Commissioner of Police KK Rao.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/night-curfew-in-delhi-party-time-in-gurugram-192067
