17-01-2021||New Delhi||Republic Day: Delhi Police puts up posters of Khalistani, Al-Qaeda terrorists over security threats||After inputs that some terrorist organisations, including Khalistani outfits and Al-Qaeda, may carry out unwanted activities on January 26, Delhi Police have taken a few steps including putting up posters of wanted terrorists in the capital.“We have inputs that some terrorist organisations including Khalistani outfits and Al-Qaeda may carry out unwanted activities on January 26. Keeping this in mind, we have taken a few steps including putting up posters of wanted terrorists,” said Siddharth Jain, Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) for Connaught Place, on Sunday.The police have also increased patrolling in the area as well as sensitised market and resident welfare associations people in view of security alert.“Amid the COVID pandemic, we have tried to reduce the gathering of people from 1.5 lakh to 25 thousand. Only limited people have been issued passes and tickets for the Republic Day parade. They have been asked to carry their photo-based ID card for the verification process. No person will be allowed to stand, only sitting arrangements have been made,” informed the ACP.The Delhi Police have issued several guidelines for Republic Day to avoid the spread of COVID-19. People have been asked to wear masks, sanitize hands, and follow social distancing. — ANI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/republic-day-delhi-police-puts-up-posters-of-khalistani-al-qaeda-terrorists-over-security-threats-199803
17-01-2021||New Delhi||Some didn’t turn up for COVID-19 vaccination at the last moment in Delhi: Jain||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Sunday said some people did not turn up for coronavirus vaccination at the last moment, adding that the government cannot ask anyone to compulsorily take the jab.He also said that the number of vaccination centres in Delhi will be increased from 81 to 175 soon.In Delhi, a total of 4,319 healthcare workers - 53.3 per cent of those registered - got the vaccine shots on the first day of the COVID-19 vaccination drive on Saturday, the minister said.Jain noted that a similar trend was observed across the country, adding that around 50 per cent of those registered got the jabs on the first day.“Some people decided not to turn up at the last moment. The vaccination programme is completely voluntary. We cannot ask anyone to compulsorily take the shot even if the person has registered for it,” he said.One “severe” and 51 “minor” cases of AEFI (adverse events following immunisation) were reported among health workers who were administered the coronavirus vaccine in Delhi on Saturday, according to official figures.An AIIMS security guard had developed an allergic reaction after receiving the vaccine. He was kept under observation of doctors, an official had said on Saturday.“His current status is not known... 51 others were discharged after some time,” Jain said.The minister also said that the Delhi government decided to omit vaccination centres of municipal corporations due to the ongoing strike by the civic bodies.“The number of vaccination sites will be increased from 81 to 175 in some days. Thereafter, it will be increased to 1,000. It will also include the sites of municipal corporations,” he said.On some political parties questioning the efficacy of the vaccines, Jain said the Centre gave permission for emergency use of the vaccines after completing a rigorous process.“All protocols were followed. So, there should be no questions about it,” he said.The health minister added that the COVID-19 positivity rate has come down to 0.44 per cent.“The coronavirus positivity rate has remained below 0.5 per cent for the last few days. We can comfortably say that the third wave is on the wane. Cases have decreased. Still, I want to appeal to people to take precautions and use masks,” he said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/some-didnt-turn-up-for-covid-19-vaccination-at-the-last-moment-in-delhi-jain-199777
17-01-2021||New Delhi||Delhi schools prepare to open the doors to classes 10, 12 students after pandemic-induced closure||Staggered and shorter class hours, frequent sanitisation, and entry and exit through multiple gates are among various new ways adopted by schools in Delhi as they prepare to welcome students of classes 10 and 12 back on Monday, for the first time since the COVID-19 pandemic forced closure of educational institutes in March last year.The Delhi government has allowed all schools outside COVID-19 containment zones to reopen for classes 10 and 12 from January 18 in view of board exams. However, it made clear that physical attendance is not compulsory and students will attend schools only with consent of parents.The Directorate of Education (DoE) has instructed schools to follow all COVID-19 guidelines when classroom studies resume.A representative at Greenwood Public School said, “We are calling students in slots—half of the students in a class will be in classroom while another half will be in laboratory to conduct practical lessons. We have sent out consent forms to all parents and the number of students willing to come to school is high.”           According to Alka Kapur, Principal of Modern School in Shalimar Bagh, the safest way for students to commute to school would be in private vehicles of their parents and guardians.“There are a number of steps that the school authorities will take to ensure that the students stay safe from the infection,” she said.Allowing 15 students at a time in a classroom, placing handwashing consoles and sanitiser dispensers in corridors, deploying volunteers to ensure social distancing and conduct temperature checks, and keeping medical facilities on standby for any eventuality are among various other initiatives planned by schools.Schools are also working out plans to ensure students who choose not to come to campus, do not miss out on anything.Priyanka Barara, Principal of MRG School in Rohini, said while the government has made optional for parents to send their wards to school, it is recommended that they come for better preparations for board exams.Ashok Pandey, Director of Ahlcon International School, said not more than 10 students will be allowed in laboratories at a time.The Union education ministry has already announced that board exams for classes 10 and 12 will be conducted from May 4 to June 10, even though the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) is yet to release an examination date-sheet.Over three lakh students have registered from the Delhi region for the Class 10 CBSE board exam, while over 2.5 lakh candidates have enrolled themselves for the class 12 exam.The Delhi government has suggested that schools conducted pre-board exams for class 12 from March 20 to April 15 and for class 10 from April 1 to April 15.Schools were closed in March last year before a nationwide lockdown was announced to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. --- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-schools-prepare-to-open-the-doors-to-classes-10-12-students-after-pandemic-induced-closure-199776
17-01-2021||New Delhi||Delhi records 246 fresh COVID cases, 8 deaths||Delhi registered 246 new coronavirus cases, the lowest in around eight months, and eight more deaths on Sunday, as the positivity rate dipped to 0.36 per cent, the Health Department said.The infection tally rose to 6,32,429 and the death toll mounted to 10,746, according to a health bulletin.This is the 14th time that the daily count stood below the 500 mark in January and the eight consecutive day since January 10 when the figures have stood below the 400mark.The 246 new cases came out of the 67,463 tests, including 40,102 RT-PCR and 27,361 rapid antigen tests. The active cases dropped to 2,544 from 2,691 the previous day, while the positivity rate dropped to 0.36 per cent, the department said.As many as 6,18,754 patients have recovered, been discharged or migrated so far.Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Sunday, “The positivity rate has remained below 0.5 per cent for the last few days. We can comfortably say that the third wave is on the wane. Cases have decreased. Still, I want to appeal to people to take precautions and use masks.” — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-records-246-fresh-covid-cases-8-deaths-199774
17-01-2021||New Delhi||‘Sun Dilliye Ni Sun Dilliye’, sung by Mohali sisters on farmers’ agitation, gets thousands hits online||Even as "Sun Dilliye Ni Sun Dilliye", a song written, composed and sung by the two young sisters on the ongoing farmers' agitation continues to grab thousands of hits on social media from people across the world, the duo maintains that while all the praise has been extremely encouraging, what matters most is that people across barriers have been able to relate to it."We never thought that the song (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0kEkwK5zS5A) would become so popular. The feedback from everyone has been very kind. However, what is most heartening is the fact that even those involved in the agitation—from leaders to protesters have liked it immensely," says Simrita.While both Simrita and Ramneek have post-graduate degrees in Hindustani classical music, the duo admits that they are not essentially lyricists. "But these circumstances were different. We were deeply troubled by the fact that thousands of farmers were out in the open at a time when we were sitting comfortably in our quilts," says Ramneek.The duo, residents of Mohali, whose parents come from an agricultural background insist that they (parents) have been very quite encouraging. "They have been extremely supportive and happy that we have been singing in support of the protests. In fact, ever since childhood, they have pushed us to find our place in our chosen field," Simrita adds.They feel that the most striking aspect of the movement for them has been the fact that Punjabi mothers have been encouraging their children to go out in this cold and join the protests. "And that says so much -- about their spirit and heart," feels Ramneek. Feeling that social media has been instrumental in making youngsters' join the agitation, Simrita adds that considering its deep penetration among youngsters, it has been successful in presenting multiple facets of the agitation. "It has given so many new perspectives unlike the mainstream media which is struck on a single narrative. Most people of our generation are heavy social media users. It has definitely succeeded in bringing about a very different level of awareness and engagement," stresses Simrita For them, the agitation has 'grown' in different ways in a short while."While during the initial days, we mostly saw the elderly protesting, very soon, a large number of youngsters joined the protests. Interestingly, one sees a sizable number of women protesters," says Ramneek.Talking about the perfect coordination between them, Simrita smiles that it is not limited only to music. She loves to cook, and "I am a foodie," she says. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/sun-dilliye-ni-sun-dilliye-sung-by-mohali-sisters-on-farmers-agitation-gets-thousands-hits-online-199734
17-01-2021||New Delhi||Farmers' stir: Fuel pump stations suffer losses at Singhu border||The ongoing farmers' protest along the Delhi borders against the farm laws has started affecting the business operations of the fuel pump stations located in the areas.Petrol pumps located near the Singhu border have been closed since November 26 last year, the day the farmers' agitation began.The fuel stations are estimated to be losing lakhs of rupees everyday. The lack of business is now impacting the salaries of the employees working at the pump stations. As business is nil, the employees' are getting only half of their salaries. There are six petrol pumps on the Singhu border, which are completely closed. In at least 52 days, all the petrol pumps have lost crores of rupees.A staffer of a petrol pump said: "Currently, the pump station has been completely shut since November 26. The workers are waiting for the farmers' agitation to end soon." Even after nine rounds of talks between the government and the farmers, no positive conclusion has been achieved. The petrol pump staff believes that if no solution is attained soon, their problems would further rise.Rajendra Singh, the manager of Om Service Station petrol pump located at Singhu Border, told IANS: "There has been a loss of about 40 lakh rupees in 52 days so far. Unless the traffic is normalised on this route, we would be facing lots of challenges.""We have about 35 employees at this pump and the protest has started showing an impact on the salaries. We have paid the salaries for now, but in case the situation remains similar, we cannot say if we would be able to pay them or not."Supervisor of the Bharat Service Station, Ram Prasad told IANS: "Not a single litre of oil has been sold since November 26. How will the owners pay salaries to the employees if the oil is not sold?""A total of 44 workers are currently working at the pump station. All are hopeful that a solution is found soon and the pump starts again," says Prasad.The employees working at the pump station have now started fearing about the loss of jobs in case the agitation continues. The next round of talks between the farmers' leaders and the government will be held on January 19. And the employees are praying that the agitation comes to an end and their business starts again. Even as the businesses around the Delhi borders are feeling the impact of the agitation, the farmers seem to be unrelenting and steadfast on their demands.The Parliament passed the Farmer Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act 2020, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Price Assurance and Agricultural Services Agreement Act 2020 and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act last year.The farmers are demanding the repeal of the three Acts. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/farmers-stir-fuel-pump-stations-suffer-losses-at-singhu-border-199729
17-01-2021||New Delhi||Delhi's records minimum temperature of 5.7 degrees Celsius||The minimum temperature in Delhi dropped to 5.7 degrees Celsius on Sunday but it is likely to rise over the next two days due to a change in the wind direction, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.The National Capital had recorded a low of 6.6 degrees Celsius on Saturday.The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum temperature of 5.7 degrees Celsius this morning.An IMD official said easterly winds are blowing in Delhi that are not as cold as northwesterly winds coming in from the snow-clad western Himalayas.Hence, the minimum temperature is likely to rise by a few notches over the next two days. It is expected to rise to 8 degrees Celsius on Monday, the official said.Delhi's air quality index (AQI) improved slightly to the 'very poor' category from 'severe' on Saturday as favourable wind speed helped in dispersion of pollutants.The city's AQI was 347 at 9 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 407 on Saturday, 460 on Friday, 429 on Thursday, and 354 on Wednesday.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'.Delhi's AQI remained in the 'severe' category for three consecutive days till Saturday due to "extremely unfavourable" conditions for dispersion of pollutants. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhis-records-minimum-temperature-of-5-7-degrees-celsius-199719
17-01-2021||---||AIIMS security guard reports allergy post COVID vaccination, in hospital care||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, January 16A 22-year-old security guard at AIIMS, New Delhi reported allergic reaction and is learnt to be in intensive care, moments after the government said there was no post-vaccine hospitalisation.The 22-year-old guard developed headache, rash, respiratory distress, tachycardia after vaccination. He is in ICU and his condition is stable, hospital sources said.Delhi has reported 52 adverse events following events of which one is serious and could involve the guard hospitalised today.All beneficiaries vaccinated at AIIMS got indigenous COVAXIN.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/aiims-security-guard-reports-allergy-post-covid-vaccination-in-hospital-care-199447
