01-02-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh gets over Rs 5000 crore budget allotment for 2021-22||Chandigarh gets Rs 5186.12 crore in the Union Budget presented on Monday.This is Rs 48.02 crore more that the Budget estimates for 2020-21.Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman tabled the budget for 2021-22  earlier on Monday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-gets-over-rs-5000-crore-budget-allotment-for-2021-22-206390
01-02-2021||---||Two pose as govt officials, dupe man of Rs1L; nabbed||Chandigarh, January 31The crime branch of the UT police have arrested two persons for allegedly impersonating as government officials and duping a man of Rs1 lakh on the pretext of providing him a government job. The fraudsters claimed that they were from the “Ministry of Welfare” and had fake identity cards.Tainted pastThe police said Ram Mehar had a tainted past with five cases of cheating registered against him in Punjab and Haryana. He was sentenced to three-year imprisonment in one of the cases.Modus operandi — Promised govt jobs The suspects used to allure people on the pretext of providing them government jobs in the “Ministry of Welfare” by means of advertisements in newspapers and distributing pamphlets. They used to travel in a Bolero SUV displaying the plate of chief director, Ministry of Welfare, to influence people. They charged Rs4 lakh to Rs10 lakh, depending upon the post.A team, led by Sub-Inspector Ashok Kumar, nabbed the suspects, Ram Mehar (41), a suspended employee of the Labour Department, Haryana, and Parveen Kumar (24), both residents of Hisar district.Complainant Saurabh Wahee, who owns a shop, Harman Tailors, in Sector 17, reported that he was at his shop when three persons arrived there on January 28. One of them, who was later identified as Parveen Kumar, was wearing a police uniform.Parveen introduced himself as a field inspector, while the second suspect, Ram Mehar, claimed that he was the chief director in the ministry. The suspects claimed that they wanted to make some purchases for the ministry.The police said Ram Mehar told the complainant that they were recruiting people and one could get a government job after paying Rs10 lakh. The complainant then asked the suspects to get one of his employees recruited.The police said the suspects asked for Rs2 lakh as advance. The complainant gave Rs1 lakh and asked them to take the remaining Rs1 lakh on January 30. “The suspects gave two cheques for Rs50,000 each to the complainant as guarantee along with photocopies of their ID cards,” said a cop. The complainant verified the ID cards of the suspects and found that these were fake. The complainant informed the police following which a case was registered and the suspects were nabbed on January 30. They were produced in a court today and sent to four-day police remand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-pose-as-govt-officials-dupe-man-of-rs1l-nabbed-206168
01-02-2021||---||Apni Mandis to reopen today||Chandigarh, January 31Apni Mandis will again start in the city from tomorrow after a gap of nearly 10 months following Covid-19. The mandis will run as per the old schedule. Tomorrow, it will be functional in Sector 45-C.Farmers or vendors are given a venue where they can set up small stalls to sell fruits and vegetables. They are charged for the stalls.“We welcome the decision, but residents should adhere to the SOPs of the government while visiting the Apni Mandis for their safety,” said Chandigarh Residents’ Associations Welfare Federation chairman Hitesh Puri.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/apni-mandis-to-reopen-today-206170
01-02-2021||---||Will use waste collectors’ services: Mayor to RWAs||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 31Stating that waste-lifting vehicles were introduced in accordance with the NGT guidelines, Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma today assured Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) regarding involving the existing registered waste collectors in the door-to-door garbage collection.‘No proposal received’The MC had given three years to collectors to come up with a proposal for lifting waste according to the guidelines of the NGT. As they did not submit any concrete proposal, the MC had to buy new vehicles for collecting garbage. - Ravi Kant Sharma, MayorSeveral RWAs, under the banner of the Chandigarh Residents’ Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED), raised their concerns with the Mayor at a community centre in Sector 22.“The MC had given three years’ time to the collectors to come up with a proposal for lifting garbage according to the guidelines of the NGT. As they did not submit any concrete proposal, the MC had to buy new vehicles and start collecting the garbage,” said the Mayor. He assured the residents that the existing collectors, who had themselves registered with the MC, would get a job with the same wages as they were getting earlier.Earlier, while giving an MoU to the Mayor, Hitesh Puri, chairman, CRAWFED, said the residents at large were satisfied with the old system of garbage collection through ‘rehris’. He requested if the new system was to be implemented, the MC should ensure employment for collectors.He appealed to the garbage collectors that they should not go on a strike and should try resolving the matter with discussions, as residents were always on the receiving side.Rajat Malhotra, general secretary, CRAWFED, said the residents feared that with the starting of the new system of garbage collection, they would have to go to the truck themselves to dispose of the waste.He requested the MC to have alternate arrangements if the collectors go on a strike.Dr Anish Garg, Chief Spokesperson, CRAWFED, questioned how 390 trucks could lift garbage every day from every household timely?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/will-use-waste-collectors-services-mayor-to-rwas-206171
01-02-2021||---||PGI Director all praise for vaccine trial team||Chandigarh, January 31Prof Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, today commended the Covishield vaccine trial team for bringing laurels to the institute.An official statement read: “It is because of the trial conducted successfully by the PGI team and the positive outcomes of the vaccine in terms of efficacy and immunogenicity that the emergency use of Covishield was authorised in India.”The team was led by Prof Madhu Gupta from the Department of Community Medicine and School of Public Health. It included Prof Nusrat Shafiq from the Department of Pharmacology; Prof Mini P Singh and Dr Arnab Ghosh from the Department of Virology; Prof Pankaj Malhotra, Prof Ashish Bhalla, Prof Vikas Suri and Dr Ritin Mohindra from the Department of Internal Medicine; and Dr Tarundeep Singh from the Department of Community Medicine and School of Public Health. In all, 149 volunteers were recruited in the trial. The follow-up of the volunteers will be continued till six months after the first dose of the vaccine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-director-all-praise-for-vaccine-trial-team-206173
01-02-2021||Mohali||Man arrested for taking Rs20 lakh in cops’ name||In a special campaign against alleged fraud and corruption by unauthorised immigration consultants, the Mohali police have arrested Kurali resident Tarun Kumar, who had taken Rs20 lakh from the owners of Expert Visa Master Immigration Company, Phase 9, and Sankasam Enterprises Immigration Company, Phase 11, in the name of senior police officers for the cancellation of an FIR registered against them for cheating on October 29, 2020.After an investigation, the police arrested the suspect on January 30 and Rs13.5 lakh was recovered from him. He was produced in a court and remanded in police custody for two days. Mohali SSP Satinder Singh said, “He is likely to make a number of important revelations regarding other such scams during the interrogation.” A case was registered at the Phase 11 police station on January 29. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-arrested-for-taking-rs20-lakh-in-cops-name-206174
01-02-2021||Amit Bathla||Panchkula village’s 5-pond system catches Modi’s eye||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, January 31It was nothing short of a reward for the Batour village panchayat when their efforts to address the drainage issues in the region were appreciated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his monthly radio programme, “Mann Ki Baat”, today.What modi saidBatour village was facing the problem of drainage. Residents recognised an opportunity even in the wastewater. The panchayat started filtering dirty water coming from the village after collecting it at a spot. The filtered water is now being used by farmers for irrigation purposes. - Narendra Modi, Prime MinisterThe village in Barwala block has a population of around 6,000. It was dealing with sewerage water issues for a long time until the newly elected panchayat in 2016 came up with a five-pond system to overcome the problem of filthy water and use it for irrigation instead.The Prime Minister, in his address, said: “Batour village was facing the problem of drainage. Because of this, dirty water had accumulated in the region and diseases were spreading. However, residents recognised an opportunity even in the wastewater. The panchayat started filtering the dirty water coming from the village after collecting it at a spot. The filtered water is now being used by farmers of the village, thereby liberating the region of pollution, filth and diseases and irrigating the fields also.”Laxman Dass, who became the village sarpanch in 2016, said: “Earlier, the drainage system of the village was hardly functioning and managing wastewater in the village was a challenge. We then decided to adopt the five-pond system, wastewater stabilisation ponds (WSPs), to resolve the issue. Under the technology, five compartments or ponds were built where the sewerage water generated from all houses is taken for treatment.”The purification begins at the first pond where floating material is separated from the wastewater. Then, it passes through at least three ponds before being transferred to the fifth or maturation pond.From there on, water can be used for irrigation in the fields through motor pumps.The direct beneficiaries of the project are marginal farmers, who were earlier heavily dependent on tubewells. Also, the village panchayat gives these ponds on a lease for fishing. The revenue from it is used for village development works.“The water is good. We don’t need to use too much fertilisers to improve the crop quality,” said Magi Ram, a farmer.Mukesh Kumar Pandit, another villager, said the Prime Minister’s reference to their village in his “Mann Ki Baat” programme filled them with a sense of pride.Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta, who visited the village soon after thePM’s mention, congratulated village representatives for their efforts to develop the region. “The acknowledgement by Prime Minister Narendra Modi Modi has brought the village on the national and world map,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-villages-5-pond-system-catches-modis-eye-206175
01-02-2021||---||10 months on, Classes VI-VIII resume today||Chandigarh, January 31After a gap of nearly 10 months, students of Classes VI to VIII will join government schools from tomorrow.The Chandigarh Administration had allowed government schools to resume classes for students of Classes VI to VIII on February 1. Students need parents’ consent to attend the classes in person. The UT had earlier allowed schools to hold physical lectures for Classes IX to XII from November 2, 2020.For Classes IX and onwards, the attendance has touched 50 per cent, especially in the periphery areas of the city while other schools are generally reporting 30 per cent attendance. Meanwhile, private schools are unlikely to start physical classes as their online classes are going on without any hassle.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/10-months-on-classes-vi-viii-resume-today-206176
01-02-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 26 fresh cases||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-26-fresh-cases-206177
01-02-2021||Mohali||2 Covid deaths in Mohali district||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-covid-deaths-in-mohali-district-206178
01-02-2021||Panchkula||8 fresh cases in Panchkula||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/8-fresh-cases-in-panchkula-206179
01-02-2021||How to bring consensus between garbage collectors & municipal corporation?||In-depth deliberations & building of trust can break deadlock||Consider vehicles for lifting wasteAs we all know that hygiene is indispensable for an individual as well as for our surroundings. Waste collectors play a significant role in this regard. They must be honest and punctual with their duties. The union should explore the possibility of lifting garbage with vehicles and follow the norms regarding their work, which are finalised by the MC.Amandeep Kaur, Dera BassiReverting to old system is goodReverting to door-to-door waste collection is welcome decision. Mechanised waste collection failed as there was no coordination between residents and waste collectors. Segregated waste should be taken to processing plant. Wet waste should be converted into organic manure and dry waste should be recycled to make useful items like planters, benches, tiles etc. There is no need to pile garbage like at Dadu Majra, which pollutes air and presents an unhygienic look of the area. Also, door to door waste collection will give employment to collectors. Remember 3Rs - reduce, reuse and recycle - are key to efficient waste collection system.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliUnion leader cannot dictate termsOne union leader OP Saini and his fellow waste collectors have been brought on board by the MC authorities. They got themselves registered to work in tandem with the crew of garbage carrying vehicles. Giving time to other union leader Shamsher Lotia and his men to follow suit by January 31 was a sympathetic gesture on the part of the MC. Now, this defiant union leader should not be allowed to take the authorities for a ride by letting some parts of the city stink with dumps of garbage. Hopefully, he will also be tactfully brought around like OP Saini and his men and the issue will be resolved without the MC going for its own separate manpower for collecting garbage in the city.SC LUTHRA, ChandigarhFind amicable solution to issueThe dead lock between the Municipal Corporation and garbage collectors has been inconveniencing city residents. The Administration must find amicable solution to the vexed problem through meaningful dialogue. Workers involved in garbage collection must be briefed about the benefits of mechanised garbage lifting in the city. They can also be adjusted at other posts in the MC to save their livelihood.Wg Cdr Jasbir Minhas (retd), MohaliRWAs must interveneTo bring a consensus between waste collectors and the Municipal Corporation, the RWAs must intervene so that UT residents don't suffer. Communication and collaboration are the only way to achieve consensus and guarantee success of the mechanised waste collection system. The deadlock must be broken at the earliest.Shobhna Kalra, PanchkulaDoor-to-door garbage collection betterOld and retired, working class couples and sick residents live in Chandigarh. It is not easy for them to give garbage to vans collecting waste. The city should stick to the old system. This will give employment to all garbage collectors. The Municipal Corporation has social responsibilities towards garbage collectors.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhUpper floor residents facing problemThe door-to-door garbage collection system must continue in the UT. Garbage collectors with carts pick garbage from all floors of houses. Garbage collecting vans are not doing so. People living on second and third floors are facing problems as their garbage is not being collected by waste collectors accompanying vans.Jenny Znobia, ChandigarhEnhance wages of waste collectorsThe reason for the said deadlock must be wages paid to waste collectors. The work of garbage collectors has increased due to introduction of the mechanised waste collection system by the Municipal Corporation in Chandigarh. Their wages must be enhanced. Waste collectors should try to understand that the new method will ultimately reduce their burden in the long run. Besides, mechanised waste collection is hygienic as residents will themselves segregate dry and wet waste and hand it over to garbage collectors in separate bags. The Municipal Corporation and waste collectors should sit together to find an amicable solution to the problem in the larger interest of Chandigarh residents.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhMC should look after waste collectionThe entire waste collection system must be run by the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation (MC). The civic body must employ its own men to run the twin-bin hopper tipper vehicles. The MC should take all waste collectors under its ambit of responsibilities and pay them as per the decided rates. The corporation should directly send bills of waste collection to house owners.Anita Tandon, KhararEmploy old waste collectorsMechanised door-to-door garbage collection is a good initiative started by the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation. The civic body should employ previous waste collectors, who lost their livelihood after the introduction of mechanised system. Any modification in the existing system faces some opposition. So, the MC should find a way out to resolve differences with waste collectors.Adish Sood, AmlohNew system riddled with flawsThe new door-to-door garbage collection system is riddled with many flaws. It was implemented in haste without doing proper home work. The MC should have first consulted waste collectors before going ahead with the mechanised garbage collection. The civic body must consider the status of the present waste collectors, who fear losing their jobs. The MC should bring them on its roll. Besides, RWAs must be taken into confidence to make the new garbage collection system a success.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaWithdraw mechanised waste collectionThe MC should have done its homework well before the implementation of the new garbage collection system. Number of garbage collection vehicles per sector are less. The new system has left residents confused as many don't know when waste collection vehicle will arrive in their area. Informal garbage collectors are on the verge of losing their livelihood. The MC should withdraw the new mechanised garbage collection and continue with the old system.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliMC can tie up with RWAsIt's taxpayer money, which the Chandigarh MC used to buy double bin vehicles worth Rs37 crore. These vehicles are not useful because of the erratic waste collection. Many residents prefer informal cart-based waste collectors. It will be better if the MC ties up with the RWAs for mechanised waste collection. RWAs can pacify residents to dispose of segregated waste in newly bought vehicles. The MC should ensure regular waste collection in the city.MR Bhateja, NayagaonApprise stakeholders of new system benefitsDifferences between the MC authorities and waste collectors have to be resolved immediately. Health workers of the MC should educate waste collectors about the necessity and benefits of the mechanised system. Wages of waste collectors can be marginally enhanced to placate them.Balbir Singh Batra, MohaliThink about residents’ inconvenienceThe Municipal Corporation (MC) and door-to-door garbage collectors should hold a meeting wherein they must try to reach a consensus over the income distribution. The MC taking over the door-to-door garbage collection by deploying special vans is a good move. The demand of the informal garbage collectors to rollback mechanised waste lifting isn't justified. But, the MC should listen to garbage collectors to resolve differences. Both the parties concerned should think about the inconvenience caused by deadlock and strikes to the public.Simran Sidhu, ChandigarhSafeguard interests of waste collectorsGarbage collectors' plea for withdrawal of the mechanised waste collection system isn't justified as automation is part of development in any sector. Deployment of garbage collection vehicles will certainly cut expenditure and save time for the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation. However, fear among the workforce involved in garbage collection that they will lose jobs and earnings if their work is replaced by machines is genuine and justifiable. The MC must safeguard jobs of thousands of such workers by providing employment. It's upto the government to protect rights and interests of workers, who have served the public for so many years. The resolution should be a win-win situation for both the parties.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliA knee-jerk reactionThe decision of the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation to manage garbage collection through mechanised mode seems to be a knee jerk reaction to impending 2021 Swachh Survekshan. Door-to-door collection of segregated garbage will definitely have an impact on the overall cleanliness of the city. However, recent deadlock between waste collectors and the Municipal Corporation should be resolved amicably. The MC should listen to grievances of waste collectors and try to resolve them. Without cooperation and support of waste collectors the mechanised waste collection system is bound to get derailed thus affecting residents. Safety needs of waste collectors should be addressed by the MC.Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhWaste not lifted from all floorsThe mechanised waste collection is not working properly because of rift between collectors and Municipal Cooperation. The MC should select two sectors and start mechanised waste collection in these areas. Once it becomes successful in the two sectors all things will fall in line. Main hindrance is not lifting of waste from all floors of houses.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhMake residents aware of waste segregationAfter spending taxpayers' money the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation launched a new scheme for door-to-door collection of waste using twin bin vehicles. Residents, who are actually stakeholders, are not aware of the scheme. What will be the fate of residents, who are living on upper floors? If we want to make the scheme a success residents should be made aware about segregating waste at source. Door-to-door waste collectors should be brought on the rolls of the Municipal Corporation as garbage collection is the only means of earning their livelihood.SK Khosla, ChandigarhQUESTIONNow, all activities are permitted outside containment zones to bring economy back on the track. Even the cap on the number of persons attending social events such as marriage functions has been removed. Is it too early to open all activities as this may lead to a surge in Covid cases or is it necessary for the economy of the country as active cases have declined?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-depth-deliberations-building-of-trust-can-break-deadlock-206181
01-02-2021||Chandigarh||I-League: Punjab FC, Sudeva Delhi Club play goalless draw||RoundGlass Punjab FC shared the spoils with Sudeva Delhi FC after the two teams played out a goalless draw in the Hero I-League in Kolkata on Friday.This is the second goalless draw for Punjab FC after the stalemate against Mohammedan SC in its previous clash. With points shared, both teams find themselves in the midst of a mid-table fight, having earned five points from as many games.In the first 15 minutes, the match saw end-to-end action, either team could have gone ahead, but complacency in front of the goal meant they could not take the lead. In the 3rd minute, a wicked deflection fell to Kean Lewis on the left flank. The midfielder knocked the ball ahead and tried to shoot from distance, but Saurabh Bhanwala got in the way to defuse the shot. Later, a quick one-two near the edge of the box put Joseba Beitia through on goal. The Spanish midfielder wanted to find the net from a tight angle but before he could release the shot, a well-timed tackle robbed him of the chance as the ball went out for a corner.In the 10th minute, Suranjit Singh went for the spectacular and almost found the net from distance, as his shot curled wide of the goal. Shortly after, Punjab custodian almost gifted a goal when he lost possession inside the box, but made amends after latching on to a Kean Lewis cross from Shaiborlang Kharpan in the box.After the lemon break, the charged up Sudeva Delhi FC looked bright and in the 53rd minute, forward Kharpan tested Limbu with a well-placed shot from outside the box, but that went inches over the bar. Three minutes later, Aphaoba Singh was found on the right flank by a through ball from Beitia. Singh, instead of crossing it in, went for a shot from a tight angle and forced Limbu to make a crucial save. Punjab’s Chencho tried to breach the Sudeva citadel in the 69th minute, but Bhutanese forward released a curling effort from a tight angle that flashed in front of the goal before going back into play. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/i-league-punjab-fc-sudeva-delhi-club-play-goalless-draw-206183
01-02-2021||Karam Prakash||Rights panel seeks report from DC, Social Justice Dept||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 31Taking cognisance of a report of The Tribune, the State Human Rights Commission has sought a report from the Social Justice Department and the Patiala Deputy Commissioner over the use of “Harijan” as a suffix in the name of a government school in Patiala.The use of the word, ‘Harijan’, is unconstitutional. Therefore, legal action should be initiated against the government officials concerned for their negligence. I think a case should be filed under the SC/SC Act. - Dr Jatinder Mattu, State President, Dr Ambedkar Employees FederationThe Tribune , in its report published in these columns in August last year, had highlighted that many government schools in the home district of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh have used the word, “Harijan” as a suffix or prefix in their names.The use of ‘Harijan’ in this way violates the Supreme Court’s order and the Central Government’s directions, say experts.In 2017, the Supreme Court, in a landmark judgement, had said: “Calling a person ‘Harijan’ and ‘dhobi’ is offensive. It is being basically used, nowadays, to intentionally insult and humiliate someone.”The Human Rights Commission, in its orders to the Patiala DC and the Social Justice Department, has said they had considered the contents of the complaints in this regard. “It calls for a report from those concerned before the next date of hearing which has been scheduled for March 10.”The commission has also sent a copy of the orders to the DGP, Punjab, and other departments for compliance.A teachers’ union had also made a request to the DC in this regard last year. The request was forwarded to the Education Department. However, nothing was done in this regard.Meanwhile, Dr Jatinder Mattu, state president of Dr Ambedkar Employees Federation, said: “The use of the word, ‘Harijan’, is unconstitutional, therefore legal action should be initiated against the government officials concerned for their negligence. I think a case should be filed under the SC/SC Act.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rights-panel-seeks-report-from-dc-social-justice-dept-206185
01-02-2021||---||Over 1 lakh kids given polio drops in Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 31On the first day of the three-day Pulse Polio campaign, teams of the Health Department administered polio drops to more than 1 lakh children today. The drive was launched by the Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, by administering polio drops to children at the CHC, Tripuri, and at the PRTC bus stand.Dr Satinder Singh said the department had set a target of administering polio drops to 1, 90, 944 children up to the age of five years.The Deputy Director, Dr Bhupinder Kaur, from the Directorate of Health and Family Welfare, was also present. She visited polio booths and monitored the ongoing activities.Dr Satinder Singh said 923 polio booths and 33 transit points had been established to achieve the target. Besides, 27 mobile teams have been formed. He said: “We have covered about 58 per cent target on the first day. Our mobile teams will cover the remaining children in the next two days.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/over-1-lakh-kids-given-polio-drops-in-patiala-206186
01-02-2021||Patiala||Punjabi University Class A officials want  admn posts||Non-teaching Class A officials of Punjabi University now want allocation of senior administrative posts amongst them. This is while a number of non-teaching administrative posts of the university have been allocated to teaching officials.Gurinderpal Singh Sidhu (Babbi), president, A-Class officer’s Association (non-teaching) of the university, said they had written to the authorities demanding allocation of various non-teaching posts, but their demand was not fulfilled.Showing the university’s reply to an RTI application provided on January 27, another non-teaching Class A officer said the university had stated that as many as 15 non-teaching posts on the campus were allocated to teaching officials. These include the post of university registrar, director (Monitoring and planning), Director (Youth welfare), Director (Public relations), DSW, Provost, finance officer and others. The university had as many as 89 non-teaching posts, including senior technical assistants, wardens, security officer and others, he added.Gurinderpal said,“The university has not filled the post of registrar through proper advertisement process in over 10 years. Earlier, Class A officers were less in number. Now, there are over 300 Class A officers at the university, which has been making stop-gap arrangements by allocating the charge to teaching officials.” There was no response from the university in this regard. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjabi-university-class-a-officials-want-admn-posts-206189
01-02-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Covid takes toll on sale of poll material||Tribune News ServiceMohali, January 31The Covid pandemic has taken a toll on the business of those selling and supplying election campaign material to political parties as there are only 50 per cent buyers. Came to Mohali from delhi for businessOmkar Singh, who manufactures election campaign material, including party flags, stickers, caps and other items, said: “The pandemic has affected my business. There is only 50 per cent sale of products manufactured by me”. Omkar Singh, who runs his office in Sadar Bazaar, Delhi, is in Mohali to sell election campaign material for the Municipal Corporation and Municipal Council elections, scheduled for February 14.Omkar Singh, who manufactures election campaign material, including party flags, stickers, caps and other items, said the pandemic had affected his business. There was only 50 per cent sale of products manufactured by him. Omkar Singh, who runs his office in Sadar Bazar, Delhi, is in Mohali to sell election campaign material for the Municipal Corporation and Municipal Council elections to be held on February 14.Omkar Singh, who is operating from a small booth near the scooter market in Phase 7 here, sells all election material such as flags, patka, caps, batches, banners, posters, stickers and handbills of all mainstream political parties, including the Congress, the SAD, the AAP, Azad Group, the BJP and Independent candidates.Talking to Chandigarh Tribune, Omkar said Covid had affected his business as lesser political functions were being held across the country or being organised at smaller scale. He manufactures party flags and other printed material in the city as per the demand. He said there was a 50 per cent decline in demand for election campaign material, thus making it difficult to pay wages to his staff.Omkar said earlier he did not visit cities where elections were held as political parties used to contact him on phone for the election material and he supplied the same from his shop in the Sadar Bazar area of Delhi. With the decrease in demand, he, along with his seven workers, sets up temporary shops in cities where elections are held to earn bread and butter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-takes-toll-on-sale-of-poll-material-206191
01-02-2021||---||SAD hasn’t been able to find candidates, says Balbir Sidhu||Tribune News ServiceMohali, January 31The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), which claims to be a people’s party, is finding it difficult to field candidates for the Municipal Corporation elections here. This was stated by Cabinet Minister and local MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu while campaigning for Congress candidate from ward no. 8 (3B2) Kuljit Singh Bedi on Sunday. He said former Mayor Kulwant Singh was contesting the elections to protect his business interests.Illegal poll campaign material removedMohali: Employees of the Municipal Council on Sunday removed unauthorised election campaign material pasted on government properties. Ashika Jain, Additional District Electoral Officer, said the model code of conduct for civic body elections was in force in the district. She said campaign material couldn’t be used without permission after the election code of conduct came into force.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sad-hasnt-been-able-to-find-candidates-says-balbir-sidhu-206192
01-02-2021||---||Saffron party okays first list of 20 candidates||Tribune News ServiceKharar, January 31Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Punjab State president Ashwani Sharma gave a go-ahead to 20 candidates for contesting the Kharar Municipal Council elections. The decision in this regard was taken after a meeting of the State Election Committee (SEC) held under the leadership of Ashwani Sharma.The meeting was attended by party’s National Secretary and co-incharge of Punjab Dr Narinder Singh, State General Secretary (Organisation) Dinesh Kumar, State General Secretary Jiwan Gupta, Punjab Mahila Morcha president Mona Jaiswal and chief of Punjab BJP’s Kisan Morcha Bikramjeet Singh Cheema.In the meeting, in-charge of Mohali district and Punjab BJP secretary Arvind Mittal, Mohali district president Sushil Rana and election in-charge of Kharar Vineet Joshi placed the list of probable candidates for the Kharar Municipal Council before the State Election Committee.In a statement issued today, election in-charge of Kharar Vineet Joshi said in the first list, the Punjab BJP announced 20 candidates and the remaining seven candidates would be declared soon.He said: “The candidates announced by the party are highly competent with honest and clean image. I am hopeful that people of Kharar will make them victorious with a huge margin of votes in the forthcoming elections.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/saffron-party-okays-first-list-of-20-candidates-206193
01-02-2021||---||Azad Group’s only aim is Mohali’s development, says ex-Mayor||Mohali, January 31All candidates of the Azad Group are seeking votes in the name of development and our main aim is to develop the city of Mohali.Kulwant Singh, former Mayor and leader of the Azad Group, expressed his views during the door-to-door election campaign for Azad Group candidates in various wards of the Mohali Municipal Corporation today.Kulwant Singh said he had worked hard for the all-round development in every ward of Mohali without any discrimination in the past five years.Singh said during his tenure, Mohali became the first city in Punjab to install LED street lights and purchase machines for cleaning streets.Former Mayor Kulwant Singh appealed to people of the city to rise above party lines and vote for the candidates of the Azad Group so that Mohali can attain greater heights in terms of development.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/azad-groups-only-aim-is-mohalis-development-says-ex-mayor-206194
01-02-2021||---||Uday, Vanshika walk away with badminton titles||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 31Uday Rana registered a comeback win over Suryansh Raghav to win the boys’ U-13 title on the concluding day of the Yonex Sunrise Chandigarh State (U-13, U-15 and U-17) Badminton Championships for Boys and Girls at the Sector 38 Sports Complex.Rana lost the first game 18-21. He, however, came back in the match by winning the next two games 21-13, 21-8.Vanshika Sharma won the girls’ U-13 title by defeating Anupriya 25-23, 23-21.In the boys’ U-13 doubles final, second seed Divyansh and Uday Rana fought hard to defeat top seed Aditya Kohli and Suryansh Raghav 16-21, 23-21, 21-13.In the girls’ U-13 doubles final, Jasleen Kaur and Vanshika Sharma ousted Anupriya and Ridhima Saini 21-14, 21-18. Nimar Kaur Virk also logged a comeback 17-21, 26-24, 21-12 win over top seed Shagunpreet Kaur to win the girls’ U-15 title. Piyush Chauhan won the boys’ title by defeating Vaibhav M 21-19, 22-20.Mannat Saini and Mili Verma won the girls’ U-17 doubles title by defeating Tanisha and Tisha 22-20, 21-10 and the team of Deepinder Bawa and Jayan Garg won the boys’ final by defeating Abhiroop Sarkar and Vaibhav M 21-15, 21-10.Samarveer defeated Deepinder Bawa 21-12, 21-9 to win the boys’ U-17 title, whereas Rijul Saini registered 19-21, 21-13, 21-16 win over Mili Verma to win the girls’ title. Raissa Bhanot and Tanvi Gupta won the girls’ U-15 doubles final by defeating Aishani Sood and Avishi Sood 21-14, 21-14, whereas Abhiroop Sarkar and Vaibhav M won the boys’ U-15 doubles by defeating Krishna Sharma and Rehaan Phutela 21-18, 21-18.In the mixed doubles U-15 final, Akul Malik and Rakshita Pahwa overpowered Atishya and Nimar Kaur Virk 20-22, 23-21, 21-15. In the mixed doubles U-17 final, Sarthak Madaan and Khawish ousted Sidharth Modi and Samreen Kaur 21-15, 21-18.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/uday-vanshika-walk-away-with-badminton-titles-206195
01-02-2021||---||54,845 children get polio drops in Mohali on Day 1||Tribune News ServiceMohali, January 31A total of 54,845 children were immunised on Day 1 of the three-day National Immunisation Day (NID), commonly known as pulse polio vaccination drive, in Mohali district today.A total of 1,096 teams, including ANMs, ASHA workers and anganwari staff, have been pressed into service that will visit around 3.87 lakh houses across the district. To ensure that all children are immunised, 128 supervisors will carry out checks at various places. - Dr Veena Jarewal, District Immunisation OfficerStating this, Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said the target was to administer drops to 1,53,835 children in the age group of 0-5 years across the district. There would be booth activity on the first day of the drive and house-to-house visits would be conducted on the second and third day.District Immunisation Officer Dr Veena Jarewal launched the vaccination drive by administering polio drops to children at a colony in Phase 6 here. She appealed to people to get their children vaccinated even if the child is born a few hours ago or is suffering from cough, cold, fever, diarrhoea or any other disease.Dr Veena said as many as 548 regular booths were set up across the district on the first day. As part of the vaccination campaign, health workers would visit houses, railway stations, bus stands, brick-kilns and slums on February 1 and 2.“A total of 1,096 teams, including ANMs, ASHA workers and anganwari workers, have been pressed into service that will visit around 3.87 lakh houses across the district. To ensure that all children are immunised, 128 supervisors will carry out checks at various places,” said Dr Veena.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/54-845-children-get-polio-drops-in-mohali-on-day-1-206197
01-02-2021||---||BJP candidate faces the heat||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, January 31Residents of Mamta Enclave here showed their resentment against the three agriculture laws when the BJP candidate from Ward No. 6, Neetu Khurana, and Panchkula BJP leader Ranjeeta Mehta reached there for canvassing.A resident, Arvinder Singh, protesting outside the BJP election office at Mamta Enclave, said he would hold a protest against the three laws here daily. When the BJP supporters confronted him, Congress candidate from the ward, Ajitpal Singh, too, expressed his support for the agitating farmers.The BJP supporters alleged that the protesting youths were sent by the Congress leaders to derail their campaign. Later, Neetu and Ranjeeta left the place.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjp-candidate-faces-the-heat-206198
01-02-2021||Mohali||Renu wins shooting gold||Renu claimed gold medal in the .22 sports pistol (women) event with a score of 236 points on the concluding day of the District Shooting Championship today.Ramanjot Kaur claimed the silver medal with a score of 299 points, while Jaswinder Kaur scored 227 points to win bronze. In the .22 sports pistol (women) junior category, Gunsheen Kaur Chah claimed the top spot with a score of 245 points and Angelina Jindrain scored 238 points to claim the second position. Devinderjeet scored 278 points to win .22 sports pistol (men) junior event, followed by Gurman Singh (274 points) and Amrit (265 points).Devinderjeet Singh also won the .22 centre fire pistol event by scoring 278 points. Gurman Singh (262 points) and Davis (261 points) claimed second and third position. Devinder (260 points), Amrit (243 points) and Gurman (230 points) claimed first three positions in the .22 standard pistol (men) junior event.Suraj Singh (246 points) claimed gold in the .22 Standard Pistol (men) event, while Amrit (243 points) and Gurkamal Singh (234 points) claimed second and third positions. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/renu-wins-shooting-gold-206199
01-02-2021||---||BJP leader gets threat calls||Chandigarh, January 31General secretary of city BJP Ravmvir Bhatti has got three threat calls and a threat letter for supporting the three farm laws.In a complaint to the UT DGP, Bhatti said he had been creating awareness on the benefits of the farms laws. His action had been opposed by certain elements who were demanding the repeal of these laws.“I have been peacefully working to make people understand the benefits of the laws. But certain elements are not only vilifying me but also threatening me with dire consequences and loss of life if I continue my activities,” Bhatti said in his complaint.He said: “I have received an anonymous threat letter wherein I have been asked not to enter my village. I have also got three threat calls. The callers asked me to stop BJP activities or else anything can happen to me.”The senior BJP leader has also marked a copy of his plaint to the Home Minister, Intelligence Bureau and others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjp-leader-gets-threat-calls-206201
01-02-2021||Mohali||Ludhiana man held for theft||Women helmet rally held in cityChandigarh: The UT Traffic Police organised a women two-wheeler helmet rally to promote wearing safety helmet by women riders at Children Traffic Park, Sector 23, here, on Saturday. It was organised in association with HDFC Bank and LEO’s Club as part of 32nd National Road Safety Month being observed from January 18 to February 17 with the theme “Sadak Sureksha Jeevan Rakhsa”. About 250 women two-wheeler riders participated in the rally with banners spreading the messages regarding road safety. A cyclothon was also organised by Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited at Sukhna Lake on Sunday. The cyclothon, led by the cycling squad of the Chandigarh Police, saw participation of around 125 cycling enthusiasts. TNSKalpana, Pooja bag top honoursChandigarh: Kalpana won 45-50kg gold medal, while Pooja claimed the top honour in the 40-45kg category on the concluding day of the Pencak Silat Senior State Championship on Sunday. Kalpana won the title by defeating Kiran. Earlier in the semi-finals, Kiran defeated Sanjana and Kalpana ousted Dolly. Pooja, meanwhile, won the title by defeating Mantasha. Komal and Simran declared as joint winners. TNSTwo FelicitatedChandigarh: Priya Jain and Poonam Bhandari, founding members of the Sewa Mission Charitable Committee, were honoured with the Women’s Excellence Awards for Covid-19 Warriors. They received the award from Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma at a function organised by NA Cultural Society at Museum Auditorium, Sector 10. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ludhiana-man-held-for-theft-206202
