02-02-2021||Chandigarh||Minimum temps below normal in Punjab, Haryana; Adampur coldest at 3 deg C||Minimum temperatures in most places of Punjab and Haryana hovered below normal on Tuesday, with Chandigarh, the joint capital of the two states, recording a low of 6.2 degrees Celsius.Adampur was the coldest place in Punjab recording a minimum temperature of 3 degree Celsius, followed by 3.2 degrees Celsius in Amritsar, 3.9 degrees Celsius in Gurdaspur, 4.3 degrees Celsius in Bathinda and 4.8 degrees Celsius in Faridkot.In Haryana, Sirsa shivered at 3.6 degrees Celsius, Karnal registered a low of 5.5 degrees Celsius, Narnaul 4.9 degrees Celsius, Rohtak 6.6 degrees Celsius, Hisar 4.4 degrees Celsius and Ambala 5.4 degrees Celsius.While the night temperatures have been hovering well below normal for several days now, the day temperatures, however, have registered a slight increase in the past two to three days, a weather department official said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/minimum-temps-below-normal-in-punjab-haryana-adampur-coldest-at-3-deg-c-206889
02-02-2021||---||Week on, man held for auto driver’s murder||Mohali, February 1The police have claimed to have solved a blind murder case of an auto-rickshaw driver with the arrest of a suspect. A country-made pistol and a motorbike used in the crime have also been recovered.Jodha Singh, a resident of Chunni Khurd, was shot dead by an unknown person near SYL canal at Batta village, Gharuan, on January 25.On a statement of Kuldeep Singh, the deceased’s brother, a case was registered against Chunni Khurd resident Harpreet Singh under Sections 302 and 34 of the IPC and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act at the Sadar Kharar police station.The complainant stated that three-four months ago, there was a fight between Jodha and Harpreet. Later, both parties reached compromised but Harpreet nursed animosity against Jodha and also warned to kill him.During investigation, the police did not find Harpreet’s involvement in the crime and he was let off. However, the role of Rajindergarh resident Nirbhay Singh emerged during the probe and he was arrested.Nirbhay revealed during his interrogation that he was close to the family of the victim’s wife, Paramjit Kaur. He never wanted Paramjit to marry Jodha. After their marriage, he nursed a grudge against Jodha.On January 25, Nirbhay, along with his servant Deepak Kumar, reached the victim’s village on a motorbike. They had their faces covered. They asked the victim to pick some passengers from Gharuan. Nirbhay sat in the auto-rickshaw and Deepak followed him on the bike. When they reached near SYL canal, Nirbhay shot Jodha and stabbed him with a knife and ran away. The police said the suspect’s accomplice Deepak Kumar was on the run.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/week-on-man-held-for-auto-drivers-murder-206461
02-02-2021||Dera Bassi||Rs 44L jewellery seized, one held||The Lalru police have seized jewellery worth Rs44,17,434 from a Ram Darbar resident, Suresh Kumar Saini, who was apprehended at a checkpost on the Chandigarh-Ambala highway near the Jharmari barrier on January 28.As many as 29 gold chains, a gold ring, 13 pieces of diamond and precious stones were seized.The suspect identified himself as an employee of Shri Durga Bhiwani Courier Company, Chandigarh, and was traveling by bus from Karnal to Chandigarh. He was asked to deboard the bus and his bag was searched from which the jewellery was seized. He was handed over to the state tax officer, mobile wing, Chandigarh-2, who evaluated the jewellery to be worth Rs44,17,434. Further action is being taken by the department concerned.SI Jaswinder Singh said, “The suspect will be asked to furnish the bills and based on further investigation, the Sales Tax Department will intimate the police about further action.” —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs-44l-jewellery-seized-one-held-206462
02-02-2021||Sandeep Rana||Civic body grant-in-aid up, but short of its hopes||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 1The grant-in-aid of the local MC increased by Rs77 crore as compared to last year in the Union Budget, 2021, but the civic body fell short of Rs670-crore grant-in-aid it had proposed.In the Budget, the MC got Rs502-crore grant-in-aid even as its Finance and Contract Committee (F&CC) recently approved Rs1,172-crore grant-in-aid. Besides, Rs75 crore will be given for Smart City.MC officials said they were hopeful of getting more funds as they had prepared the Budget in view of the Fourth Delhi Finance Commission recommendations. “We will get more funds in the revised Budget,” said MC Commissioner KK Yadav. The MC also hopes to get about Rs176 crore from the RLA this year. Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma had earlier claimed that the Administration had assured him of providing funds from the RLA this year onwards.However, going by the current approved grant-in-aid, several civic works and ward development works may get hit. Though the MC has been crying over not getting the required funds every year, it has seen a gradual increase in its grant-in-aid every year.For the 2020-21 fiscal, the corporation had got Rs425 crore, while for 2019-2020, it had received a grant of Rs375 crore.The F&CC had approved a Rs1,627-cr draft Budget proposal for 2021-22. It approved the Budget estimates of Rs443 crore under the capital head and Rs1,184 crore under the revenue head. The proposed Budget will go for further approval to the MC’s Budget meeting on February 4.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/civic-body-grant-in-aid-up-but-short-of-its-hopes-206463
02-02-2021||---||6-member gang involved in extortion, kidnapping busted||Mohali, February 1The police have busted a gang whose members were involved in extortion, kidnapping by posing as officials of the National Investigation Agency (NIA), the Border Security Force (BSF) and other security agencies. Six members of the gang have been arrested and weapons, ammunition, fake ID cards, uniforms, laptops and SUVs have been recovered from them.The suspects have been identified as Dominic Sahota, a resident of Jandiala Guru, Amandeep Singh Deol, Rajvir Singh, Mukhtiyar Singh, Govinder Singh and Yudhvir Singh, all hailing from Amritsar district. Four cars, three illegal .32 bore pistols, a country-made pistol, 16 rounds of ammunition and five empty shells have been recovered from the suspects.Mohali SP (City) HS Virk said, “Dominic Sahota is the kingpin of the gang who used to pose as official of security agencies and dupe innocent persons by showing fake ID card. The gang was involved in various incidents of kidnapping and extortion. Sahota has two cases of cheating registered against him.”The suspects were produced in a court, which remanded them in police custody till February 6.The modus operandi of the gang came to light on January 15 when the police had registered a case against five persons for kidnapping the owner of a mobile shop in Phase 1 and seeking a ransom of Rs3 lakh for bailing him out of a fake gambling case.In his complaint to the police, Sanam Garg, the owner of Garg Telecommunications in Phase 1, stated that three unidentified men, two in police uniform and one in civil clothes, approached him on the evening of January 15 and guided him to an SUV parked nearby.Two persons waiting in the SUV took him to Sector 76 and told him that he had been booked for gambling. However, if he paid them Rs3 lakh, he could go scot-free. The complainant asked his brother to bring money. On seeing some persons with the complainant’s brother, the suspects tried to flee. However, Garg managed to jump out of the moving car.Hunt on for 2 moreThe police are looking for two more suspects, Hardeep Singh Singh and Shamsher Singh. A case has been registered under Sections 364-A and 34 of the IPC and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act at the Phase 1 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/6-member-gang-involved-in-extortion-kidnapping-busted-206465
02-02-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 32 Covid-19 cases||20 test positive in Mohali districtMohali: The district reported 20 fresh cases during the past 24 hours, taking the case tally to 19,495. No fresh virus death was reported, while 37 more patients recovered from the disease.Among the fresh cases, 13 were reported from Mohali (urban), one from Gharuan and six from Kharar. The district has so far seen 19,495 cases, while 18,579 patients have been cured. There are 551 active cases. As many as 365 persons have fallen prey to the virus. —TNS9 fresh cases in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Monday reported nine fresh coronavirus cases, taking the overall tally to 10,532. The Covid toll remained at 147. While 10,298 patients have recovered from the disease so far, 87 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 97.77 per cent. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-32-covid-19-cases-206466
02-02-2021||---||Free mock JEE test series||Chandigarh, February 1The Tribune recently launched a free mock JEE series in collaboration with Chitkara University for those aiming to crack the JEE-2021.The initiative will include a package of eight mock JEE tests for students (with more tests to be added from time to time).Dr Madhu Chitkara, Pro-Chancellor, Chitkara University, said: “2020 was a tough year for everyone, including students. With uncertainty looming over entrance exams and admissions, 2021 can be the year of recovery. Chitkara University is proud to introduce the test series for students to prepare for JEE.”Interested students can register at www.tribunemockjee.co.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/free-mock-jee-test-series-206469
02-02-2021||Naina Mishra||PGI gets 22% less than its demand||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 1The Central Government has sanctioned 22 per cent less of what was demanded by the Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, in Budget 2021.Against its demand of Rs 2,050 crore, the institute has been allocated Rs 1,613.82 crore in the Budget.However, the share is about 13 per cent more than the budget allocated in the previous fiscal. An additional grant of Rs 385 crore was received by the institute under the revised budget of the fiscal 2020-21.Last year, the Rajya Sabha Parliamentary Committee was informed that a demand of Rs 2,150 crore was made by the institute for the financial year 2020-21. However, a fund worth Rs 1426.53 crore was allocated to the institute.The committee observed that in the past years, the PGI had been successful in utilising a maximum of the budget allocation.The committee had stated it was unable to comprehend the reason for the lower allocation of budget to the Institute.“The PGI being the leading tertiary care hospital of the region and catering to patients from all over Punjab, J&K, Himachal Pradesh and Haryana, a shortage of funds should not affect the services provided by the institute. The committee, therefore, recommends a higher allocation of budget to the institute so that it is able to excel in providing healthcare services to people,” the committee had remarked.About 75% of the allocated budget will be for payment of salaries to the employees, followed by 15% for capital assets and 10% for general expenditure.Under the “creation of capital assets” head, the institute had sought a grant-in-aid of Rs 425 crore, but got only Rs 253.82 crore.Among its major projects, the PGI is in the process of constructing a high-end Mother and Child Care Centre, a Neurosciences Centre and a 300-bed hospital at the satellite centre in neighbouring states.Dr Jagat Ram, Director, PGIMER, said the institute would get an extra grant for the various initiatives underway at the institute.Financial adviser of the PGI Kumar Abhay said the budget won’t be impacting the projects as of now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-gets-22-less-than-its-demand-206470
02-02-2021||---||Over 6K attend schools in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, February 1The UT Education Department reported an attendance of around 20,000 for all classes in the government schools after Classes VI to VIII reopened today.Director School Education (DSE) Rubinderjit Singh Brar said: “We received a good response on the first day itself. This is expected to increase in the days to come.”The attendance of students from Classes VI to VIII remained between 6,000 and 7,000 on the first day.Some parents, who had come to escort children to school, were of the opinion that there was no harm in attending classes as all necessary precautions were being taken by the school and the Covid graph was coming down in the city.The younger ones were taught to maintain social distancing and wear a mask by their teachers. Schools kept a strict vigil on the elementary class students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/over-6k-attend-schools-in-chandigarh-206471
02-02-2021||Amarjot Kaur||Several turn up for ‘Tiranga March’, counter allegations against farmers||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 1Amid the slogans of ‘Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan’, a crowd of over 300 people marched with Tricolour in their hands, escorted by the Chandigarh Police, from Kisan Bhawan all the way to Sector 17 Plaza.Manjeet Kaur, one of the protesters, said, “This march is as much for India as it is for the farmers. In the garb of insulting the Tricolour, our community has been defamed and insulted. From this region, revolutionaries such as Bhagat Singh fought and died for the country. How can that be forgotten?”On the PGI roundabout, artists painted portraits of wounded protester Jagseer Singh, along with freedom fighters Gulab Kaur, Kartaar Singh Sarabha and Bhagat Singh and anti-capitalism heroes such as Che Guevara. At Matka Chowk, hundreds of people protested, as they do every evening, to express their resentment over the three controversial farm laws.Artist Kuldeep Singh, who made a painting of Jagseer Singh, a protester whose bloodied picture after January 26 violence at the tractor rally became viral, said, “I feel there is a need to express our love for the man who was mercilessly beaten up by the police for us, for the food on our plates.”Hardev Singh, a filmmaker, who painted posters at the PGI chowk with many other artists said, “I feel art can bring about a change. So, we will try and be here almost every day to paint and creatively express our solidarity with farmers at Delhi border.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/several-turn-up-for-tiranga-march-counter-allegations-against-farmers-206472
02-02-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Now, take approval before organising online seminars||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 1The Ministry of Education, Department of Higher Education, has issued revised guidelines for all higher institutions for holding online conferences/ seminars/training and others.In Chandigarh, these guidelines will be implemented to various institutions, including Panjab University, Punjab Engineering College, schools, medical colleges and other colleges.An approval procedure has been issued for holding any online conferences. Any ministry or department, public sector undertaking, central educational institutions, public-funded universities or an organisation owned and controlled by the Centre or state government should take an approval of its administrative secretary for the event. While giving the permission, the Ministry should ensure that the subject matter for online events is not related to the security of state, border, UT of J&K, Ladakh or any other internal matters of the country.These are important guidelines as most of the higher teaching institutions have been conducting virtual meets since the imposition of the lockdown. Following all guidelines will surely not be an easy task for all. Let's see how well it goes. —A professor“An approval from the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) is required for events having foreign funding and sponsorship; involving sensitive subjects (political, scientific, technical, commercial, personal) with provisions for sharing of data in any form and presentations. While seeking approval/after approval, link to the online events should be shared at socoord@mea.gov.in,” read the circular.The administrative secretary of respective ministry/department should be authorised to give permission for participation from director and below rank, subject to usual and necessary checks.“These are important guidelines as most of the higher teaching institutions have vastly started conducting virtual meets since the imposition of the lockdown. Following all guidelines will surely be not an easy task for all. Let’s see how well it goes,” said a professor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-take-approval-before-organising-online-seminars-206473
02-02-2021||Chandigarh||‘No work, no pay’, UT warns power staff||The UT has warned of enforcing ‘no work, no pay’ rule for members of the Powermen Union which has given a call for a strike on February 3.The spokesperson said defaulting employees would be liable for other disciplinary action. Necessary arrangements for maintaining the continuity of power supply have been made but chances of outages cannot be ruled out. If residents find anyone sabotaging the supply, they may inform the police — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-work-no-pay-ut-warns-power-staff-206474
02-02-2021||---||Students reach schools without health certificate, parents’ consent||Panchkula, February 1Classes VI to VIII reopened in the schools here today with strict Covid-19 protocol in place.However, a majority of students were asked to return home as they turned up without health certificate and written consent from parents.However, the exact number of students who attended the schools was unavailable.While some parents alleged that they weren’t aware of any such information, school authorities maintained the guidelines were shared on their WhatsApp numbers and even through phone calls.Sukh Rajni, Elementary School Head Master (ESHM) at Government Middle School in Kundi, Sector 20, said: “A majority of students came to the school without health/medical certificates. As per the guidelines, we can’t allow them to attend classes.”“All students have been directed to follow Covid guidelines. We are also making sure they sanitise their hands regularly and maintain social distancing on the school premises,” he said.As per the guidelines by the state education department, the students will have to bring a certificate from any health centre or a doctor to certify that they do not have any Covid-like symptoms. The report should not be more than 72 hours old.They will also have to bring a written consent from their parents before coming to schools.“Students who wish to continue their studies through the online mode, as has been imparted to them during the past 10 months, can continue availing of the facility as before,’’ the guidelines added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/students-reach-schools-without-health-certificate-parents-consent-206475
02-02-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Setback to Cong in Ward No. 17||Tribune News ServiceMohali, February 1In a major setback to the Congress, Rajbir Kaur, daughter-in-law of staunch Congress leader Balraj Singh Gill, today filed her nomination paper as an Independent candidate from Ward No. 17.Rajbir Kaur said his family had been working for the party since long as her father-in-law was a Congress leader. This time, the party had ignored them and fielded another candidate, who was a new face and had done nothing for the people of the ward.She said people of her ward comprising Phase 10 and 11 were supporting her as they had carried out pruning of over 100 trees that had gone above 65 foot and were a threat to the people of the area. They had also organised medical camps in which over 650 people underwent check-ups at these camps. They were also instrumental in installation of water pumps in parks of the area during the past five years.Kaur said she was contesting the elections as an Independent candidate. She was not a part of the Azad Group, led by former Mayor Kulwant Singh, or any other party.Meanwhile, a total of 129 candidates have filed papers for the Municipal Corporation and Municipal Committee elections scheduled to be held on February 14.Divulging details, District Election Officer Girish Dayalan said 33 candidates today filed nomination papers from the Mohali Municipal Corporation, five from Nayagaon, six from Banur, two from Kurali, 10 from Zirakpur, nine from Lalru and 33 from the Kharar Municipal Committees.A total of 103 candidates have filed their nominations for the Mohali MC till now.Former Deputy Mayor Manjit Singh Sethi, former councillors Kamaljit Singh Ruby, Manmohan Singh Lang, Harmanpreet Singh Prince and his wife Inderpreet Kaur Prince, and former AIG Sarabjit Singh Pandher were among those who filed their nomination papers today. 33 candidates file nomination papersDistrict Election Officer Girish Dayalan said 33 candidates today filed nomination papers from the Mohali Municipal Corporation, five from Nayagaon, six from Banur, two from Kurali, 10 from Zirakpur, nine from Lalru and 33 from the Kharar Municipal Committees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/setback-to-cong-in-ward-no-17-206476
02-02-2021||---||Sec 38 sports complex trainees top medal tally||Chandigarh, February 1Trainees of the Sector 38 Sports Complex won maximum number of medals in the recently concluded Yonex Sunrise Chandigarh State (U-13, U-15 and U-17) Badminton Championships for Boys and Girls.The centre’s trainees won six gold medals, seven silver medals and nine bronze medals to claim the top position in the overall medal’s tally. The four-day long championship concluded on Sunday.Ram Gopal, DSP, Chandigarh Police, Surinder Mahajan, Secretary, Chandigarh Badminton Association (CBA) and Col Raj Parmar, senior vice-president, CBA, along with other office-bearers, awarded the winners. The tournament witnessed participation of over 300 players from the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sec-38-sports-complex-trainees-top-medal-tally-206477
02-02-2021||---||City’s Gerrari Offroaders to compete in desert challenge||Chandigarh, February 1 Gerrari Offroaders team from Chandigarh, consisting of four drivers and equal number of navigators, will be participating in the Ultimate Desert Challenge (UDC), 2021, starting from February 4 near Bikaner. The Ultimate Desert Challenge (UDC) is a high-endurance desert off-roading competition that aims at providing a neutral competitive platform for expert off-roaders as well as budding off-roading talents. Kabir Waraich (driver) and Amber Udasi (co-driver), Dushyant Khosla (driver) and Mankaran Bamra (co-driver), Deepam Prajapati (driver) and Amritpal Singh (co-driver), Shivrattan Dhillon (driver) and Divjot Singh (co-driver) will be taking the baton of Gerrari Offroaders in the challenge. “The competition was first organised in 2014 by Dune Adventure Sports Club. Thereafter, it has been a regular affair in Bikaner, Rajasthan. Ultimate Desert Challenge is one of the most-recognised off-road motorsport competitions in the country today, attracting a host of seasoned off-roaders from all across the country. It is a national-level off-roading tournament organised with strict international standards,” said Prajapati. The four teams are accompanied by Gerrari Offroaders support team consisting of Kirpal Singh Tung, Harazeez Singh Brar and Jagnoor Singh. Earlier, the local team has won several titles in this tournament. Waraich has won three titles in the Ultimate Desert Challenge, while Prajapati claimed the top position in under 800CC category.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/citys-gerrari-offroaders-to-compete-in-desert-challenge-206478
02-02-2021||Chandigarh||‘0001’ goes for Rs 8.51 lakh||The much sought-after fancy number ‘0001’ was sold for Rs8.51 lakh during an e-auction of CH01-CD series.The Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA) earned revenue of Rs73.16 lakh from the e-auction of fancy numbers of the new series, CH01-CD, along with the re-auction of leftover numbers of the previous series CH01CC, CH01-CB, CH01-CA, CH01-BZ, CH01-BY, CH01-BX, CH01-BW, CH01-BV, CH01-BU, CH01-BT and CH01-BS held today.The second highest amount of Rs3.68 lakh was fetched by number ‘0009’ in the CH01-CD series. Similarly, ‘0007’ was sold for Rs3.27 lakh, while ‘0005’ earned revenue of Rs2.54 lakh. However, ‘0002’ was auctioned for Rs1.61 lakh, ‘0006’ for Rs1.55 lakh, ‘0008’ for Rs1.07 lakh, ‘0003’ for Rs85,000, ‘0004’ for Rs80,000, and ‘0010’ for just Rs54,000. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/0001-goes-for-rs-8-51-lakh-206479
02-02-2021||---||Biker killed in road accident||Chandigarh, February 1A 28-year-old motorcyclist was killed in a road accident at Sector 39.According to the police, complainant Thakur Deen, a roadside vendor, and his wife Sheela Devi, residents of Mohali, were returning home in a cart on January 30 when a speeding motorcycle hit the cart from the rear side near the Sector 39 waterworks.The complainant, his wife and the motorcyclist, identified as Rajinder, a resident of Maloya Colony, fell on the road and suffered injuries.The injured were rushed to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, where the motorcyclist later succumbed to the injuries.The police have registered a case at the Sector 39 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/biker-killed-in-road-accident-206480
02-02-2021||Sandeep Rana||Deadlock between civic body, garbage collectors continues||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 1The deadlock between the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation and door-to-door waste collectors continues. Many garbage collectors did not come forward to register themselves with the civic body despite today being the last date.The MC has served the third and last notice to the collectors to register themselves with it as helper or driver in the newly purchased vehicles till February 1. Though the MC is yet to finalise the exact number of registration, a senior official said it was not encouraging.“The response is not encouraging. We had already told them to get registered or we will have no other option but to make own arrangements,” said a senior MC official.Now, MC Commissioner KK Yadav will hold a meeting in this regard tomorrow to decide the next course of action.The deadlock will affect the MC’s waste segregation and collection drive, which was launched from Sectors 1-30 in the first phase. At several places, both waste collectors and drivers on vehicles are collecting garbage from houses, leaving residents confused.The Municipal Corporation has already made it clear that it will collect monthly charges. Since the MC wants to start the service in the second phase, it will face challenges as collectors have not joined the civic body.Earlier, 550 workers were registered with the MC, which has a list of 1,284 collectors in the city. Despite the third notice, the number did not increase much and many of those registered are not turning up for work on vehicles. Waste collectors peg the total number to over 2,000. MC officials said the numbers were not genuine.A faction of collectors, led by OP Saini, had agreed to the MC plan, but it seems most of them too have not come forward. Another union, led by Shamsher Lotiya, which has been protesting outside the MC office for the past several days, has not agreed to the plan and insisted on collecting waste through rehris and collect monthly charges on its own.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/deadlock-between-civic-body-garbage-collectors-continues-206481
02-02-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||A tad more in Chandigarh Administration kitty||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 1The UT has been allocated a sum of Rs 5,186.12 crore for the fiscal 2021-22 in the Union Budget presented by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in Parliament today. With a major push for housing and urban development, energy and education, the allocation is Rs48.02 crore more than the Budget estimates of the last year, which were Rs 5,138.10 crore, logging an increase of 0.93 per cent.Of the total Budget of Rs5,186.12 crore, the UT Administration has got Rs4,567.67 crore under the revenue head, which is Rs76.29 crore less than the last year. Under the capital head, the UT has been allocated Rs618.45 crore, an increase of Rs124.31 crore. Funds under the capital head are meant for development works while the finances under the revenue head are spent on salaries and other recurring expenses.The Administration had sought nearly Rs5,670 crore from the Centre for the fiscal 2021-22 for various projects, including power, education, transport etc.There was a marginal increase in the allocation under revenue head and capital head for power and renewable energy projects. The Centre has provided Rs788.51 crore and Rs37.55 crore against Rs753.75 crore and Rs35.71 crore given last year, respectively. The funds are meant for transmission and distribution of power, new and renewable sources of energy, promotion of model solar city programme and construction work of the Electricity Department.The Centre has allocated Rs87.02 crore for police housing and allied works, including development of infrastructure, building, renovation of existing residential houses, etc. Last year, the UT had received Rs62.96 crore under the category.For ecology and environment, forestry and wildlife, forest conservation and development, plantation scheme, communication and buildings, preservation of wildlife, acquisition of land for forestry, Botanical Garden, etc, the Centre has allocated Rs34.47 crore.For purchase of new buses, replacement of condemned buses and bus stand upgrade, computerisation of the CTU, construction of link road and purchase of video coach buses for intercity transport, the Centre has allocated Rs45.74 crore.Funds for welfare of women, children hikedThere has also been a minor hike in the funds to be spent on the welfare of women and children. The Centre increased the funds from Rs24.98 crore to Rs25.12 crore this year. The funds will be spent on renovation, addition or construction of government buildings, home for old and destitute, protection centre for runaway couples, creches for children of working mothers, setting up of UT Commission for Protection of Child Rights Act, 2005, etc.Rehab instt for persons with intellectual disabilitiesTo improve health services in the city, a 50-bed community health centre will be upgraded to a 250-bed hospital. A regional trauma centre, a mental health institute and a government rehabilitation institute for persons with intellectual disabilities will be constructed.New ITI to come up in cityThe overall allocation for education is Rs849.50 crore for the fiscal 2021-22. Last year, the sector was granted Rs843.73 crore. The education funds have been provided for modernisation and purchase of equipment, development of infrastructure for the NCC, providing amenities/services and construction of a new polytechnic, a government polytechnic for women and an industrial training institute.UNION BUDGETMIXED RESPONSEWhile the Industries Association has hailed the reduction in import duty on steel scrap, which will give a boost to the MSMEs in the state, the common man is unhappy as there is no reduction in income tax slabs.‘Good for MSMEs’The Budget is good for MSMEs as the import duty on steel scrap has been reduced, which would further give a boost to the steel industry of the state. However, the imposition of agriculture infrastructure and development cess (AIDC) on fuel would not only hit the common man but also industry as the cost of raw material would go up.Yogesh Sagar, president, Mohali Industries Association‘No respite for common man’It appears the Budget has been prepared to benefit corporate houses. There is no reduction in tax slabs to give some relief to employees. The AIDC would further increase the prices of essential commodities.Shamsher Purkhalavi, Principal, ITI Mohali‘Big relief for senior citizens’Exemption from the filing of income tax return for senior citizens aged above 75 years is a welcome step. Though we were expecting the government to announce a minimum of Rs 5,000 old-age pension. The automobile scrap policy for allowing petrol and diesel cars up to 20 years old to ply is also a big relief for senior citizens.Swarn Chaudhary, president, Mohali Senior Citizens Assn‘Non-filing of ITR no big respite’The non-filing of ITR would hardly help senior citizens as the income from the interest on FDs has already gone down from 9.5% to 5.9 % in the past seven years. Further, AIDC has been introduced at a time when fuel prices are skyrocketing.Sukhwinder Singh Bedi‘No relief for Covid-hit traders’There is no relief scheme for traders who suffered huge losses during lockdown. Also, there is no pension scheme for traders, who are the major taxpayers. There is no relief in GST too.Kamaljit Singh Panchhi, president, Chandigarh Traders Association, Sector 17‘Focus on livelihood’We appreciate the fine balancing done to soothe the economy as well as boost it by way of increased capital expenditure, focus on creating physical infrastructure and healthcare spending. The Budget ticked all the right boxes of lives, livelihood and growth.Nikhil Sawhney, Chairman, CII Northern Region||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/a-tad-more-in-chandigarh-administration-kitty-206482
02-02-2021||Chandigarh||Sector 37 man ends his life||PU gets New Dean (Research), DUIChandigarh: Prof VR Sinha, University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Panjab University, took over the charge of the Dean of University Instructions (DUI) from Prof RK Singla, Computer Centre, for a year on Monday. Sinha is now the academic head of the PU and will be responsible for streamlining the academics, especially after the campus reopens. Meanwhile, Prof Rajesh Gill, Department of Sociology, also took over the charge of the Dean (Research) from Sinha for a year or till she attains the age of 60 years or whichever is earlier. TNSPracticals for Haryana pupilsChandigarh: Panjab University has allowed students, living in certain areas of Haryana, to give practical examinations after theory exams due to restrictions on using Internet. The circular read: “This is for the information of the students belonging to the cities of Haryana where Internet facility has been affected that they will be allowed to appear for practical exams after completion of theory examinations.” TNSWebinar concludesChandigarh: The two-day international webinar on 'Global challenges in modern times' concluded on Monday at Chandigarh University. In the first lecture, Justice Sanjay Kaul said environmental violence could cause destruction of the human species. TNSTwo arrested under NDPS ActChandigarh: Two drug peddlers, including a 19-year-old youth, have been arrested by the local police in separate cases. The police said Sahil (19), a resident of Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, was nabbed from near the Transport light point with 430 gm of ganja on January 31. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered against him at the Sector 26 police station. In another incident, a 32-year-old woman, Deepa, a resident of Sector 38, was nabbed from Sector 40 with 50 banned injections. A case has been registered against her at the Sector 39 police station. TNSCarjacking near toll plaza in LalruDera Bassi: Three unidentified persons made off with a car near the toll plaza in Lalru around 8 pm on Sunday. According to information, three persons were coming from Mahendergarh and going towards Chandigarh in a car and stopped before the toll plaza to relieve themselves. In the meantime, three men approached them for a lift till the toll plaza but the driver expressed his inability as there were two more passengers in it. The trio then attacked them, threw them out of the car and fled with the vehicle. SI Dilbagh Singh said a case was registered under Section 379-B of the IPC at the Lalru police station on Monday. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-37-man-ends-his-life-206483
