03-02-2021||Mumbai||Kangana Ranaut gifts 4 flats to Rangoli Chandel, other cousins in Chandigarh||Actress Kangana Ranaut, who has reportedly gifted new flats to her siblings Rangoli, Aksht and two cousins in Chandigarh, on Tuesday said she was fortunate that she could share her wealth with family."I want to encourage people to share their wealth with their family. Remember happiness multiplies when it's shared, they are beautiful luxury apartments under construction will be ready in 2023 but I am very fortunate that I could do this for my family," Kangana tweeted.On the work front, Kangana will next be seen in "Thalaivi", where she essays late actress-turned-politician J Jayalalithaa.The actress also has "Tejas", "Dhaakad" and "Manikarnika: The legend Of Didda" lined up. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kangana-ranaut-gifts-4-flats-to-rangoli-chandel-other-cousins-in-chandigarh-207329
03-02-2021||Chandigarh||Sector 7 club sealed for serving hookah||The UT authorities today sealed a club and restaurant in Sector 7 here for serving hookah to customers. During an inspection, Ruchi Singh Bedi, SDM (East), ordered the sealing of ‘The Reef’ after hookahs were found being served to customers in the club. Last month, the UT Administration had decided to cancel the licence of hotels and restaurants, if found violating the ban on serving of hookahs. The Administration has already imposed a ban on serving of flavoured hookahs, including tobacco molasses containing nicotine, for smoke or consumption in hotels, restaurants, bar, taverns and hookah bars. Earlier, the UT Administration had decided to close down the premises for serving hookah for three days and to punish the owner or the manager under various provisions of the Disaster Management Act. However, violation of the ban on serving of hookah to customers continued in the city. Meanwhile, Ajay Jagga, member, Rogi Kalyan Samiti, in a letter to UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore, stated that the use of hookah was banned in 2007 when the city became smoke-free. “Since new Excise Policy is underway for 2021-22 and is like to be finalised soon, it must contain a clause that if any licensee is found using hookah, its licence will be cancelled/suspended for a minimum of 15 days,” he requested. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-7-club-sealed-for-serving-hookah-207106
03-02-2021||---||1,56,934 children get polio drops in Mohali||Mohali, February 2A total of 1,56,934 children were given polio drops in Mohali district during the three-day National Immunisation Day (NID) campaign.Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said the target was to administer drops to 1,53,835 children in the district. Polio drops were given at booths on the first day of the drive. Health workers visited house to house to administer drops on the second and third day. As many as 54,845 children were given drops on Day 1, 56,025 on second day and 46,064 kids were administered drops on third day of the drive.She said the campaign covered high-risk areas, migrant population, brick-kilns, construction sites and slums. The Health Department ensured that no child was deprived of medicine.Dr Adarshpal said a total of 548 booths and 1,096 teams were formed across the district for the successful conduct of the campaign.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-56-934-children-get-polio-drops-in-mohali-207107
03-02-2021||---||Men, material in place for free and fair poll: Dayalan||Mohali, February 2Requisite men and material are in place for the conduct of free and fair MC elections. This was stated by District Electoral Officer (DEO) Girish Dayalan in a meeting held with returning officers at the District Administrative Complex here today.The meeting was especially attended by MS Chinna, Kanwalpreet Brar and Parampal Kaur, election observers for the district, to keep abreast of the polling arrangements. ADCs Ashika Jain and Rajiv Gupta and SDMs Himanshu Jain, Jagdeep Sehgal and Kuldeep Bawa were also present in the meeting.Divulging details about the preparedness, Girish Dayalan said duties had been assigned to the staff. The mandatory rehearsal of the polling staff would be conducted on February 7 and 10. Randomisation of EVMs had been done and these be distributed as per the plan. Counting and storage centres/strong rooms had been identified.He said a complaint redressal cell had been setup under the District Food and Civil Supply Controller and a media monitoring cell had been established under the District Public Relations Officer.Dayalan said kits containing material such as face shields, masks, gloves, sanitisers and a thermal scanner for Covid prevention were being procured and would be handed over to the polling parties. The administration was mulling over setting up of all-woman booths to encourage female voters.SSP Satinder Singh said a roadmap for the peaceful and safe conduct of the elections was in place. As per the norms, police personnel had been assigned areas of duty and extra force would be deployed in sensitive and hypersensitive polling stations.The observers stressed upon prompt redressal of complaints, if any, and suggested setting up of a complaint redressal cell at the returning officer (RO) level. They also suggested sanctioning permission for loud speakers at the RO level. The observers also suggested proper sanitisation and fogging of polling stations.Mandatory rehearsal of staff on Feb 7, 10District Electoral Officer Girish Dayalan said duties had been assigned to the staff. The mandatory rehearsal of the polling staff would be conducted on February 7 and 10. Randomisation of EVMs had been done and these would be distributed as per the plan. Counting and storage centres/strongrooms had been identified.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/men-material-in-place-for-free-and-fair-poll-dayalan-207108
03-02-2021||---||One-time settlement scheme sought on Punjab Govt pattern||Chandigarh, February 2The Chandigarh Beopar Mandal (CBM) has demanded the implementation of one-time settlement scheme of VAT assessment cases on the pattern of the Punjab Government.A Chandigarh Beopar Mandal delegation, comprising Charanjiv Singh, newly-elected president, Ram Karan Gupta, adviser-cum-chairman, GST sub-committee, CBM, Diwakar Sahoonja, patron-cum-official spokesperson, and Jagdish Kapoor, adviser, CBM, today called on Rajesh Popli, Additional Commissioner, Excise and Taxation, UT.The delegation submitted a memorandum regarding one-time settlement scheme for pending assessment cases prior to GST implementation.In the meeting, Charanjiv Singh handed over a copy of the recent notification issued by the Punjab Government regarding one-time settlement scheme of outstanding dues giving 90 per cent tax exemption and 100 per cent interest penalty exemption for old and pending VAT assessment cases.Ram Karan Gupta demanded the scheme to be made applicable to all pending cases till GST was implemented in Chandigarh that is up to June 30, 2017.Sahoonja requested for allowing time period of one year to be given to traders to avail the benefit of settlement case.While assuring for sympathetic consideration, Popli asked for another meeting with office-bearers of the Chandigarh Beopar Mandal to further elaborate on the subject.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-time-settlement-scheme-sought-on-punjab-govt-pattern-207109
03-02-2021||---||1 held for stabbing e-rickshaw owner||Panchkula, February 2 The Panchkula police have arrested one of the two suspects for stabbing an e-rickshaw owner and looting his mobile phone about two years ago. The suspect has been identified as Pradeep Sharma, a resident of Mauli Jagran in Chandigarh. He was produced before a court today which remanded him to judicial custody. The police said the accused had hired the e-rickshaw of victim Anil Kumar, a native of Uttar Pradesh and presently living in Rajiv Colony in Sector 17, Panchkula, for Ramgarh side in 2019. The accused had injured the victim with a knife and looted his mobile phone. A case under Section 392 of the IPC and Section 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act was registered at the Chandimandir police station on February 17, 2019. The police said the accused had also tried to steal an e-rickshaw in 2019. A case under Sections 379 and 411 of the IPC was registered against the accused at the Sector 20 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-held-for-stabbing-e-rickshaw-owner-207110
03-02-2021||---||Mohali orders relaxation in restrictions; ceiling on gatherings to continue||Mohali, February 2Keeping in view the latest guidelines of the Department of Home, Punjab Government, the administration, under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), 1973, and the National Disaster Management Act, 2005, has ordered relaxation in restrictions in the district.Divulging details, District Magistrate Girish Dayalan said all activities, including cinemas and theatres, swimming pools and exhibition halls, were permitted outside the containment zones, subject to SoPs of all departments concerned. Ceiling of 250 persons and 500 persons on various indoor and outdoor social/religious/sports/entertainment/educational/cultural/religious gatherings would remain in place.Dayalan said the authorities concerned would ensure strict implementation of all extant directives of the MHA/state government such as following social distancing norms, regulating crowds in markets and public transport and imposition of penalties prescribed for the violation of Covid appropriate behaviour such as wearing of face masks and spitting in public.The DM said any violation of these guidelines would be punishable under Sections 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, besides legal action under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).He said the Health and Family Welfare Department, Punjab, had issued advisories on different subjects and all concerned should ensure compliance of these advisories. Any violations would invite criminal proceedings under the relevant provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and the Indian Penal Code, 1860.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-orders-relaxation-in-restrictions-ceiling-on-gatherings-to-continue-207111
03-02-2021||---||Cong nominees file papers for 50 wards||Mohali, February 2Cabinet Minister and local MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu has said Opposition parties, including the SAD, Azad Group and the BJP, are unable to field their candidates in all 50 wards of the Municipal Corporation the elections of which will be held on February 14.Led by Balbir Singh Sidhu, all 50 candidates, including his brother Amarjeet Singh Sidhu, filed their nominations at the district administrative complex and the Punjab Mandi Board office today.Addressing the media, Balbir Singh Sidhu said they would fight the polls on development works carried out by the Congress government in Mohali in the past four years. He said a medical college and a modern community centre in Phase 3B1 would be set up at a cost of Rs14 crore and Rs6.38 crore, respectively. Work of replacing the damaged sewer system had also been started at a cost of Rs22 crore, he said.Sidhu said five new booster sets would be installed in the city to improve the water supply. To curb the stray menace, a gaushala would be set up at Balongi village, he said.Meanwhile, 652 candidates filed their nomination papers for the Mohali Municipal Corporation and seven municipal councils of the district.District Election Officer Girish Dayalan said 178 candidates filed their papers for the Mohali MC. With regard to the Municipal Council elections, 73 candidates filed papers at Nayagaon, 24 at Banur, 48 at Kurali, 59 at Dera Bassi, 90 at Zirakpur, 70 at Lalru and 110 from at Kharar.Will develop Mohali in five years: Ex-MayorMohali: All candidates of the Azad Group are seeking votes in the name of development carried out in the past five years and our main goal is to develop Mohali in the next five years making it a world-class city. These views were expressed by former Mayor Kulwant Singh while campaigning for candidates of the Azad Group in various wards of Mohali.Kulwant said he had carried out all-round development in every ward of Mohali without any discrimination in the past five years. It was a matter of pride for Mohali that it was the first city in Punjab to have an open air gym in every ward.As a result of planting lakhs of saplings in the past five years, the air quality in Mohali was much better than other cities. It would be even better in the next five years.On being questioned regarding the declaration of Mohali as open defecation free, he said it was a matter of pride for Mohali and was another step in improving the lives of the people, which has been his sole aim. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cong-nominees-file-papers-for-50-wards-207112
03-02-2021||---||Drops given to 71,490 kids in Panchkula||Panchkula, February 2As part of the three-day National Immunisation Day (NID) campaign, 71,490 children have been administered polio drops against the targeted 71,203 children in Panchkula district.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Jasjit Kaur, said on the first day, polio drops were given to children at booths and on the second and third day, health workers went house to house to achieve the target. She said the campaign covered all areas, including high-risk areas with migrant population, kilns, construction sites and slums.Dr Jasjit Kaur said that against a target of 20,994, only 17,223 children were given drops in the urban Panchkula. Similarly, in the urban Pinjore, 1,498 children were administered the drops against a target of 2,815 children. In the urban Kalka, 5,370 children were given the drops against the targeted 5,019 children.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/drops-given-to-71-490-kids-in-panchkula-207113
03-02-2021||Zirakpur||Minor raped at hotel, 1 nabbed||The police have booked two persons and arrested one of them for allegedly kidnapping and raping a 15-year-old girl at a hotel in Jhiurheri. The suspects have been identified as Randeep Singh, alias Deep, a resident of Adda Jhungian, and Sunny, a hotel employee. A case has been registered against them at the Zirakpur police station. According to the victim’s mother, the girl left the home on the morning of January 24. She later called her family to inform that she was going to marry Randeep. The family members found her at a hotel in Jhiurheri on January 31. According to the police, Randeep fled the spot on January 25, while the hotel employee, Sunny, raped her for days. The police said the Randeep had been arrested, while Sunny was on the run. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/minor-raped-at-hotel-1-nabbed-207114
03-02-2021||---||YPS celebrates foundation day||Patiala, February 2 Yadavindra Public School here celebrated its 73rd Foundation Day today.  Keeping in view the Covid-19 pandemic, the celebrations were held through virtual platform. An online drawing competition for classes IV-XII was organised to keep everyone involved in the celebrations. Around 1,000 students exhibited their creative skills on various themes related to the “History and heritage of YPS”. Adhering to all Covid-19 precautions, a customary cricket match between old Yadavindrians and the school team was played at the cricket ground of the school. “Foundation Day 2021 is an opportunity to acknowledge and compliment all YPS team for their untiring efforts to keep things going smoothly during tough times of Covid pandemic. I also pay my gratitude to the parents for their extraordinary support,” said YPS Director, Major-Gen Sanjiv Varma (retd).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/yps-celebrates-foundation-day-207115
03-02-2021||---||‘Wetlands are not waste lands’||Chandigarh, February 2Wetlands are not waste lands, said Debendra Dalai, Chief Conservator of Forests and Wildlife, UT, while describing the wetlands in the vicinity of the city.Dalai was delivering the keynote address at a webinar organised by the Environment Society of India (ESI), in collaboration with the Department of Forests and Wildlife, UT, and National Council of Teachers Scientists (NCTS), to mark World Wetland Day today.Dalai made participants aware about the importance of wetlands in the conservation of ecosystem and environment. He also made participants aware about all provisions for saving wetlands in our laws. He reminded participants about their responsibility to conserve wetlands.NK Jhingan, secretary, ESI, and Director, NCTS (Punjab-Chandigarh), hosted the webinar.In an introduction to the wetlands, Dr Debi Prasad Rath, an expert, mentioned history, present scenario and laid emphasis on the wetlands conservation. He focused on the harmful effects of plastic on wetlands and environment and its hazards. Dr Archana Mishra, vice-president of the ESI, discussed the presence of wetlands all over the region and India. She reminded participants about the contribution of wetlands in all areas to our lives.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/wetlands-are-not-waste-lands-207117
03-02-2021||---||BJP raises villages’ problems with Adviser, submits memo||Chandigarh, February 2A delegation of the BJP today submitted demands regarding problems in 23 villages under the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation to UT Adviser Manoj Parida today.The delegation, led by president Arun Sood, told the Adviser that at the time of the inclusion of the villages under the corporation, a notification was issued and all cultivable land came under the MC’s purview. However, after some time another notification was issued and the cultivable land was shown outside the municipal limits.“The agricultural land in the villages should be included in the urban boundary and all facilities should be provided there. Lal Dora should be finished on the lines of Haryana in all villages of Chandigarh. Basic amenities such as electricity, roads and water should be looked after and bills should be reduced in the villages,” the delegation demanded.Sood also demanded that a village development committee should be set up as part of the ‘Advisory Council’ for the complete development of the villages.The state BJP president demanded that the collector rate of agricultural land in the villages should be increased from Rs1.15 crore per acre to more than Rs3 crore according to the need of the hour.The Adviser, the Home Secretary and the Deputy Commissioner were present. The BJP was assured that all issues would be taken up before Administrator next week and decisions will be taken in the interest of the villagers.Land issue||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjp-raises-villages-problems-with-adviser-submits-memo-207120
03-02-2021||Surinder Bhardwaj||111 nominations filed on Day 2||Fatehgarh Sahib, February 2On the second day of filing of nomination papers, 111 candidates filed their nominations for the Sirhind-Fatehgarh Sahib Municipal Council elections.The Congress candidates, led by Kuljit Singh Nagra, MLA of Fatehgarh Sahib, and his wife Mandeep Kaur Nagra, filed their nomination papers for all 23 wards of the council.The SAD candidates, led by Didar Singh Bhatti, halka in-charge; the AAP candidates and the BJP candidates also filed their nomination papers.There was a lack of enthusiasm among the electorate which was evident by a small number of supporters accompanying the candidates. Earlier, candidates showed their strength by arranging big gatherings during nominations.The Congress and the SAD announced the list of their candidates today. Senior SAD leaders, including former president of the council and certain councillors, are not contesting the elections on one or the other pretext.The BJP is feeling the heat of the farmers’ protest. The party has not yet declared its list of candidates. One BJP candidate from ward number 12 has defected to the SAD.The BJP leaders have demanded security for its candidates and deployment of para military forces at the booths to conduct free and fair elections.Though AAP has so many leaders and prominent faces who have defected from the SAD and the Congress, they are not contesting the elections. Rather, the party has fielded fresh faces.Meanwhile, 95 candidates filed nominations for 29 seats of the Municipal Council of Mandi Gobindgarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/111-nominations-filed-on-day-2-207121
03-02-2021||---||Groundwater panel to submit report this month||Chandigarh, February 2 The committee comprising UT Administration and Municipal Corporation officers formed to reassess the groundwater resources in the city will submit its report this month. The committee was tasked with reassessing annual ground water recharge of the UT and estimating the status of utilisation of the annual extractable ground resource.  The committee was asked to submit its report on or before February 26. In 2019, Chandigarh figured among 14 state capitals where tap water is ‘undrinkable’. This report was released by the then Union Minister for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, Ram Vilas Paswan, in New Delhi. Same year, the city topped the list of water-stressed states/UTs, as per a report of the World Resource Institute (WRI), an international think tank.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/groundwater-panel-to-submit-report-this-month-207123
03-02-2021||Mohali||Three fall prey to virus in Mohali||Panchkula reports 12 fresh cases Panchkula: Twelve Covid cases surfaced in the district during the past 24 hours. However, no fresh death was reported. The district has so far reported 10,544 Covid cases. As many as 10,306 patients have been cured and 147 have died. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-fall-prey-to-virus-in-mohali-207126
03-02-2021||Chandigarh||Now, HSRP, colour-coded sticker must for vehicles||Now, failure to get a high security registration plate (HSRP) and colour-coded sticker affixed on old or new vehicle will invite a penalty in the UT.As per the directions of the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, the affixation of HSRP and third registration mark (colour-coded sticker) on the vehicles (old and new) has been made mandatory.Consequent upon the orders of the Supreme Court, the office of the Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA), UT, had implemented the scheme of HSRP in Chandigarh in 2013.The registered owners of vehicles with registration number of series “CH01BK” and “CH01BL” should apply for affixation of the HSRP and the third registration mark in the RLA office, Sector 17, within the month of February as per the due procedure available on the web portal chdtransport.gov.in. Failing to do so will invite a challan. Owners of vehicles with registration number of series “CH01BM” to “CH01BT” may also apply for affixation of the HSRP and the third registration mark at the RLA office only.The registered owners of vehicles of other old or existing series can apply for the HSRP and the third registration mark in the offices of the RLA in Sector 17, the SDM (South) in Sector 42 and the SDM (East) in the Industrial Area, Phase I.In addition to this, the Transport Department, Chandigarh, has also authorised the dealers to affix colour-coded sticker and HSRPs on old and new vehicles. Hence, the registered owners of vehicles of other old or existing series can also approach their dealers concerned (of their vehicle’s make) for getting the HSRP and third-registration mark affixed to their vehicles.The replacement of any existing registration plate may be made only after ensuring that the old plate has been surrendered and destroyed on the office premises. The spokesperson stated that the vehicles owners failing to get the HSRP and colour-coded sticker affixed to their vehicles would be liable for prosecution under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, CMV Rules, 1989. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-hsrp-colour-coded-sticker-must-for-vehicles-207127
03-02-2021||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court junks nod to swap panchayat land with coloniser's chunk||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 2The Punjab and Haryana High Court today quashed an order passed by the Punjab Government permitting the exchange of over 42 kanals of gram panchayat land abutting Airport Road in Mohali with another chunk owned by a coloniser.“The entire process of exchange of land smacks of mala fide as its real purpose is to give benefit to the coloniser/developer, who would later sell the same in the shape of plots/flats/houses at exorbitant rates,” the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh ruled.What the Bench saidThe Bench asserted that the gram panchayat land was abutting the 200-foot-wide “PR-9” road, which approached the Mohali International Airport. It was highly valuable, being useful for industrial and commercial purposes, compared to the land the gram panchayat would get in its exchange from the private developer.“Viewed from any angle, the exchange of gram panchayat land cannot be justified, it being only for the benefit of the private developer and, thus, it cannot be sustained,” the Bench added, while also setting aside impugned resolutions passed by the gram panchayat permitting the exchange of its land in violation of the statutory provisions of law.Referring to the provisions of law, the Bench asserted that it was necessary for the gram panchayat to apply its mind and satisfy itself that the exchange was for the benefit of the inhabitants. However, such satisfaction was not recorded by it while passing the impugned resolutions.The Bench added that a village gram panchayat, being democratically elected by the inhabitants, was under duty to watch their interests. In the case in hand, the gram panchayat failed to show that the proposed land exchange was for the benefit of the village residents. Anybody prejudicially affected by the acts or omissions committed by the gram panchayat could invoke writ jurisdiction, even though he may not have proprietary interest in the subject matter.The Bench observed that both the chunks of equal area to be exchanged were situated in Drari village in Mohali district. A drain for disposal of sewage was abutting the developer’s land and the foul smell could be a permanent source of nuisance for the adjoining landowners. At the same time, the drain was more than six acres away from the gram panchayat land proposed to be given in exchange.“This clearly shows that the private coloniser/developer intends to get rid of his land, whichis unfit for residential purposes being near the aforesaid drain. In lieu of the land, he would get prime land abutting the 200-foot-wide PR-9 road, having high commercial and industrial potential,” the Bench added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-junks-nod-to-swap-panchayat-land-with-colonisers-chunk-207128
03-02-2021||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh Administration to start inoculating frontline workers today||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 2The UT is going to begin with the inoculation of frontline workers from Wednesday onwards at two vaccination sites. The Central Government has identified 31,374 frontline workers in the city for Covid-19 vaccination.The UT Health Department has identified 150 frontline workers from the Municipal Corporation and the Police Department for inoculation. At Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, as many as 50 frontline workers from the MC will be called for inoculation, whereas 100 cops will be called at Police Hospital, Sector 26. Anil Garg, Joint Commissioner, MC, said, “I am elated that frontline workers will now get the vaccine. They worked really hard during the Covid-19 pandemic. It is a precaution everyone should take against the disease. I am not apprehensive about the vaccine at all. There are no second thoughts.”At Police Hospital, the Director General Police (DGP) will be vaccinated and the Municipal Corporation Commissioner will be given a Covid jab at the GMSH-16.The data of frontline workers was uploaded by the Centre. The portal was slow a day before the vaccination and the health department faced problems in identifying the departments of the frontline workers.On Tuesday, as many as 216 healthcare workers were inoculated against a target of 500. Till now, 4,126 health workers have been vaccinated, which is just 48 per cent of the target. The UT has operationalised 12 vaccination sites till now. However, the vaccination sessions vary every day.UT sees 22 casesChandigarh: The city on Tuesday reported 22 fresh cases of Covid, taking the UT case tally to 20,979 and the toll to 335. A total of 15 more patients recovered from the disease in the past 24 hours. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-to-start-inoculating-frontline-workers-today-207132
03-02-2021||Sandeep Rana||Dog lovers want MC to increase number of registrations per house||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 2The dog bylaws of the Municipal Corporation restricting the number of registrations per house to two is proving to be a deterrent for dog lovers who want to adopt strays.Dog lovers said adopting more stray dogs will help in controlling their population and curbing stray dog menace on roads as the one who will keep it will be able to take care of its sterilisation and vaccination.Many people, who want to keep stray dogs at their homes, cannot do it due to the two-pet registration embargo.“I have five pet dogs and four of them are strays. When MC officials come, I only show two and hide the other three. They should allow adoption of four to five stray dogs. It will help in curbing nuisance on roads,” said a local resident preferring anonymity.A Sector 18 resident, Latika Jain, who is promoting stray dog adoption in the city and also runs a related page on Instagram, a social networking service, shared, “I know many people who have adopted more than two stray dogs. They are unaware of the bylaws which do not allow adoption of more than two dogs.”“I think adopting more dogs should be encouraged. It will help in avoiding the human-dog conflict. Not only that we will able to take care of dogs, this will also help curb road accidents,” she added.An MC official of the wing concerned, said, “Whether it is a pet or a stray, one can own only two dogs. If a house has more dogs, it may disturb the neighbours and they may complain. In the guise of adopting more, some will start running breeding centre from their home.”According to the MC, 9,048 dogs have been registered in the city since 2010 when the dog bylaws were enforced. At present, one can register a dog by paying a fee of Rs500. The civic body has issued 17 challans from April to December 2020 for non-registration of dogs and littering by canines. Earlier, the fine for the violation was Rs500. Recently, it was raised to Rs5,000.MC Medical Officer of Health Dr Amrit Warring said, “The issue regarding raising the number of registration per house with regard to stray dogs is still being discussed.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dog-lovers-want-mc-to-increase-number-of-registrations-per-house-207133
03-02-2021||---||Pedestrian dies in hit-and-run||Chandigarh, February 2In a hit-and-run case, a pedestrian was killed after being hit by an unknown vehicle on the road separating Sector 37 and 38.According to the police, complainant Sandeep Kumar, a resident of Sector 38, reported that an unknown vehicle sped away after hitting his mother Raj Kumari near the small chowk on the road on February 1.The police were informed and the victim was rushed to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, where doctors declared her brought dead. The police have registered a case against the unknown driver at the Sector 39 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pedestrian-dies-in-hit-and-run-207134
03-02-2021||---||Expect light rain for two days||Chandigarh, February 2The Chandigarh Meteorological Department has issued a light rain forecast for Wednesday and Thursday.As per the forecast, it is likely to be partly cloudy sky with light rain on Wednesday. It is expected to be generally cloudy sky with light rain on Thursday. On Friday, it is expected to be generally cloudy sky with no forecast of rain.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/expect-light-rain-for-two-days-207136
03-02-2021||---||Clear dues in 15 days or face the music, CHB tells allottees||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 2The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has warned all allottees of the Small Flats and Affordable Rental Housing Scheme (ARHC) to clear their dues within 15 days to avoid cancellation proceedings.Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB, said a large number of allottees of the Small Flats and Affordable Rental Housing Scheme had defaulted in the payment of dues. “Penalty interest at 12 per cent per annum is being levied in the case of delayed payment. For the time being, proceedings against non-payment were kept pending and in case of any further delay, the proceedings for cancellation will be initiated,” he said.He said all allottees were requested to make online payments because it was simple and a reliable method of making payments. To further encourage online payments, a computerised draw was being held every month to give a reward of Rs1,000 each to 10 online payment transactions irrespective of the amount paid.“The online payment process for the dues of the CHB has been simplified. Now, online payment can be made without making any registration or going through the process of user ID and password. The option for ‘quick online payment’ has been provided on the website www.chbonline.in," he said.“The CHB is making continuous efforts to simplify its processes. Efforts are being made to provide the facility of payment of CHB dues at the Sampark centres, but it will take some time to start,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/clear-dues-in-15-days-or-face-the-music-chb-tells-allottees-207141
03-02-2021||Chandigarh||UT DSP’s fake FB profile created||UT gets appreciation certificateChandigarh: For making the best district skill development plan, Chandigarh has been conferred with a certificate of appreciation in the District Skill Development Planning 2018-2019 from the Centre. In a letter to Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar, the Additional Secretary, Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, stated that the Ministry was extremely proud. TNS2-day Volleyball trials from todayChandigarh: The Chandigarh Volleyball Association will organise trials to select local boys’ sub-junior team on the Panjab University campus on February 3 and 4. Players born on or after January 1, 2005, will be eligible to participate in the trials. The selected players will undergo a mandatory 15-day coaching camp before the final selection of the team. The selected team will participate in the 43rd Sub-Junior National Volleyball Championship to be held in Vallore, Tamil Nadu, from February 24 to 28. TNSSister duo bags doubles silverChandigarh: Tanisha Giri and Tisha Giri, both sisters, clinched silver in the girls’ doubles U-17 category in the recently concluded Yonex Sunrise Chandigarh State (U-13, U-15 and U-17) Badminton Championships for Boys and Girls at the Sector 38Sports Complex. The twins put forth a strategic combination of powerful smashes and swift footwork. They were felicitated with trophies and medals. TNSRWA governing body electedChandigarh: The General House of Welfare Association, Modern Housing Complex, Category IV, Sector 13, unanimously elected the governing body. Talvinder Singh, Harish Atreja and Manoj Shrivastav were elected president, general secretary and vice-president, respectively. Inderjit Kaur, SK Jain and Neelam Sharma were elected cashier, organising secretary and joint secretary, respectively. TNSSector 41 man held with vialsLalru: The police have arrested a suspect with 290 injections each of Buprenorphine and Avil near Jharmari barrier in Lalru. The suspect has been identified as Jaskaran Baggan, alias Karan, a resident of Sector 41, Chandigarh. A case has been registered against him under Sections 22, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act at the Lalru police station on January 30. He was produced before a Dera Bassi court on January 31, which remanded him in three-day police custody. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ut-dsps-fake-fb-profile-created-207145
03-02-2021||Saurabh Malik||Three single benches of Punjab and Haryana HC to  begin holding in-person courts||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 2A day after the Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association decided to seek Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha’s transfer and boycott his court for non-resumption of physical hearing of cases, the Registrar-General today made it clear that “three Single Benches will hold Court through physical mode in the designated courtrooms from February 8”.The number of courts will gradually be increased, keeping in view the infrastructure/installations, medical advice, MHA guidelines and other safety measures.Registrar-General Sanjiv Berry also made it clear that the Benches would take up the cases in the cause-list, in addition to the category of cases notified earlier. An order issued in this regard said a meeting was convened on January 31 to discuss the issue, keeping in view the MHA guidelines and the fact that no application for physical hearing was received from any advocate.“In spite of being invited, no representative of the High Court Bar Association attended the said meeting....,” Registrar-General asserted, adding that the Advocates-General of Punjab and Haryana, Additional Solicitor-General of India, and UT senior standing counsel gave consent for the physical hearing of criminal appeals.The order added a letter was earlier issued to all District and Sessions Judges to permit physical hearing in all categories of cases. Three courtrooms were set up in the High Court also for physical hearing. It was notified on January 26 that physical hearing would commence in addition to the present system of hearing matters through videoconferencing.It was also notified that, in the first instance, all criminal appeals where the accused were in custody would be heard. A list of more than 1100 such appeals was published. “Despite issuance of order publishing the list of cases, no request for hearing was received from any advocate and therefore no case could be listed for physical hearing”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-single-benches-of-punjab-and-haryana-hc-to-begin-holding-in-person-courts-206965
