04-02-2021||Chandigarh||COVID-19: 12 new cases in Chandigarh||Chandigarh on Thursday reported 12 new coronavirus cases, taking the infection count to 21,036 in the Union Territory, according to a medical bulletin.The death of a 75-year-old man took the toll to 337 and there are 187 active cases as of now, it said.A total of 19 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 20,512, as per the bulletin.A total of 2,21,572 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 1,99,593 tested negative while reports of 121 samples were awaited. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-12-new-cases-in-chandigarh-207960
04-02-2021||---||Medicines distributed in Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, February 3The Health Department distributed free medicines and ulcer care kits among leprosy patients here today. Medicines are being distributed during the ongoing fortnight anti-leprosy campaign at Dr Khushdeva Leprosy Colony. The campaign has been initiated to spread awareness of leprosy among city residents.Dr Rupandeep Kaur, District Leprosy Officer (DLO) said leprosy caused by mycobacterium leprae was a curable disease and could easily be treated by multi-drug therapy (MDT).They distributed medicines and ulcer care kits among 45 patients at Leprosy Colony, she added.“Leprosy is curable with the MDT. Timely diagnosis, appropriate treatment and completion of full course of the MDT may prevent disabilities caused by leprosy,” she said.Meanwhile, the Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, said the Health Department was also providing disability certificates to leprosy patients, which entitled them free travel.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/medicines-distributed-in-patiala-207739
04-02-2021||---||Top officials get vaccine jab in Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, February 3To dispel fears regarding Covid-19 vaccination Patiala Deputy Commissioner (DC) and Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) got the vaccination shot at Government Mata Kaushalya Hospital here today.The Health Department kicked off the second phase of the vaccination drive to inoculate frontline workers of supporting departments.Other top officials, who were vaccinated today, include Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) Dr Preeti Yadav, ADC Pooja Grewal and Assistant Commissioner Ismat Vijay Singh.“In order to dispel misconceptions about safety of the vaccine, I myself got vaccinated today. We should not pay any heed to misinformation. To stave off the virus one should readily get inoculated,” said Kumar Amit, Deputy Commissioner, Patiala, after getting vaccinated.The vaccination drive would open for the public soon after all frontline workers get the Covid jab, the DC added.Meanwhile, the Health Department said out of 118 frontline workers, who registered for the session, only 43 turned up for the vaccination.The Patiala SSP, Vikram Jeet Duggal, a corona survivor, said he was the first to get the Covid shot to encourage other district police personnel. Around 3,500 police personnel and officers of the district were likely to be vaccinated, the DC said.After vaccination the ADC (D), Dr Preeti Yadav, said, “The Covid vaccine is secure and safe because it has reached us after a proper trial. Therefore, one should come forward without any fear and be a part of the campaign to fight against coronavirus.”The Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, said they had continuously been vaccinating without any letup. “We should happily be part of the world’s largest vaccination campaign. One should not believe in rumours or misconceptions,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/top-officials-get-vaccine-jab-in-patiala-207738
04-02-2021||Chandigarh||Thieves strike at Sector 27 gurdwara||Illicit liquor seized in MohaliMohali: The police seized 586 cartons of illicit liquor from three vehicles in the run-up to the civic body elections. Two cases under the Excise Act have been registered at the Majri Block police station and one at the Kurali police station. The suspects have been identified as Sukhwinder Singh of Ferozepur and Purshottam Lal of Ludhiana. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/thieves-strike-at-sector-27-gurdwara-207737
04-02-2021||Chandigarh||Twin sisters win doubles silver||Twin sisters Tanisha Giri and Tisha Giri clinched the silver in the girl’s doubles U-17 category in the recently concluded Yonex Sunrise Chandigarh State (U-13, U-15 and U-17) Badminton Championships at the Sector 38 Sports Complex.The twins put forth a strategic combination of powerful smashes and swift footwork. They were felicitated with trophies and medals. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/twin-sisters-win-doubles-silver-207736
04-02-2021||---||Liquor export, import only on valid permit||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 3Mandip Singh Brar, Excise and Taxation Commissioner-cum-Deputy Commissioner, UT, held a meeting with officials of the Excise and Taxation Department to discuss the export or import of liquor consignments.Brar directed them to ensure that each consignment should be allowed against a valid permit or pass. He directed that there should be no violation of excise laws by any of the licensee and action should be taken against the violators.Recently, Brar held a meeting with liquor vendors and wholesale companies of the UT and invited suggestions for the excise policy for 2021-22.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/liquor-export-import-only-on-valid-permit-207735
04-02-2021||Zirakpur||Son of Dera Bassi Cong in-charge fielded from Zirakpur ward 12||As many as 31 Congress candidates for upcoming Municipal Council elections filed their nomination papers at the Zirakpur MC office here today.All eyes will be on the ward No. 12 (Dhakoli area) from where Udayvir Singh Dhillon, son of Dera Bassi Congress in-charge Deepinder Singh Dhillon, has thrown his hat in the ring. On the other hand, Dharminder Sharma, younger brother of Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma, will be contesting as the SAD candidate from ward No. 18 (Lohgarh).Dhillon accompanied the candidates and expressed hope that the electorate will vote for their party as they have lived up to the expectations of the people with the developmental work.Udayvir Singh Dhillon said, “We are contesting elections on the basis of our past performance and positive outlook.’’Around 1,000 Congress supporters along with Congress candidates thronged the tehsil office since morning. Police personnel manned the nearby areas and put up barricades outside the office to prevent traffic chaos in the area.Yesterday, 31 Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) candidates had filed their nomination papers in the presence of Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma.Earlier, Udayvir Dhillon was tipped to contest the polls from this ward but he finally chose ward No. 12. Dharminder today said that Udayvir Singh Dhillon had shied away from the direct contest.BJP faces heatIn Dera Bassi, high drama prevailed in the MC office when the BJP candidates were filing their nomination papers for the 19 wards of the council. A group of farmers led a protest against the three agricultural laws and tried to enter the building, but heavy police presence ensured that the situation remained under control. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/son-of-dera-bassi-cong-in-charge-fielded-from-zirakpur-ward-12-207734
04-02-2021||---||Cong starts door-to-door campaign||Tribune News ServiceMohali, February 3The Congress intensified its poll campaign in Mohali with Daljit Kaur Sidhu, wife of Punjab Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, starting door-to-door campaigning for party candidates.Her son, Kanwarbir Singh Ruby Sidhu , who is also the president of the Mohali Youth Congress, and Jatinder Kaur Sidhu, wife of Amarjeet Singh Jeeti Sidhu, the party candidate from ward No. 10, also accompanied Daljit Kaur during the campaign.Daljit Kaur Sidhu also addressed a public meeting at Sector 79. She said the Congress was getting stronger by the day. She said the Punjab Government was leaving no stone unturned in the development works of the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cong-starts-door-to-door-campaign-207727
04-02-2021||---||167 file papers at Fatehgarh Sahib||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib, February 3The town was abuzz with political activity on the last day of the filling of nominations for the civic body elections.Candidates of SAD(B), accompanied by Didar Singh Bhatti, Halka in-charge, and BJP candidates, led by former Minister Harbans Lal, filed the nominations. The police had made elaborate security arrangements.For the 23 wards of the Sirhind-Fatehgarh Sahib Municipal Council, 167 candidates have filed their nominations. The Congress, SAD(B) and AAP have filed for all 23 wards and the BJP for 15 wards only.For 29 wards of the Mandi Gobindgarh Municipal Council, 239 candidates have filed the nominations. The Congress, SAD(B) and AAP are contesting on all seats.In Bassi Pathana, 102 candidates for 15 wards have filed their nominations. A few BJP candidates have preferred to contest as Independents. In Khamano Nagar Panchayat, 60 candidates filed papers for 12 wards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/167-file-papers-at-fatehgarh-sahib-207722
04-02-2021||---||1,503 file nominations for civic body elections in Mohali district||Mohali, February 3With the filing of nominations coming to an end today, 1,503 are now in the fray for elections to the Mohali Municipal Corporation and seven Municipal Councils scheduled to be held on February 14 in Mohali district.On Wednesday, 650 candidates filed their nominations on the last day. The scrutiny of the nominations will take place tomorrow, while the withdrawal of forms will be done on on February 5. The results of the elections will be declared on February 17, three days after the poll.In Mohali, a total of 419 candidates filed their nominations, 57 from Banur, 179 from Nayagaon, 106 from Kurali, 234 from Kharar, 129 from Lalru, 150 from Dera Bassi and 229 from Zirakpur.From Mohali, 23 candidates of the SAD filed nomination papers, while 33 candidates of BJP filed their nominations on Wednesday.The Congress, the SAD and the Azad Group are contesting on all 50 seats, while BJP is contesting on 49 seats and have not fielded their candidate from ward number 33.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-503-file-nominations-for-civic-body-elections-in-mohali-district-207717
04-02-2021||Mohali||Chandigarh-Dehradun flight from March||The Chandigarh International Airport is set to get direct connectivity with four new destinations, Dehradun, Jodhpur, Jammu and Indore, in the summer schedule to kick in from March-end. The Chandigarh-Dehradun flight, operating six days in a week, is likely to begin from March 28. The one-hour flight will take off at 6:30 pm from the UT and depart from Dehradun at 8 pm. The Chandigarh-Indore flight, operating seven days a week, will take off at 6:25 pm and land at Indore at 8:15 pm, and take off from Indore at 8:45 pm and land at city at 10:40 pm. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-dehradun-flight-from-march-207702
04-02-2021||---||Experts dwell on Indian renaissance||Tribune News ServiceMohali, February 3The School of Social Sciences, Rayat Bahra University, organised an expert talk on ‘Sri Aurobindo, Rabindranath Tagore and the idea of nationalism in Indian renaissance: A thematic analysis’ here today.Eminent scholar Dr Ronki Ram, Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Panjab University, dwelt on the history of development of the modern India. The scholar talked about the role of Sri Aurobindo and Rabindranath Tagore in the Indian renaissance and the valuable contributions made by them.Dr Ronki Ram said the social and religious movements, popularly termed as the renaissance, which preceded the political struggles, were considered a necessary precursor to the coming of nationalism. “Hence, nationalism is conceptualised as a natural outcome of the renaissance,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/experts-dwell-on-indian-renaissance-207701
04-02-2021||Panchkula||Fire substation set up in Sector 20 of Panchkula||A fire substation was today inaugurated at Sector 20 here today.The sub-station had been a long-pending demand of sector residents, where high-rise buildings are located in a large numbers. Notably, the sector has over 200 group housing societies.The building of local community centre will serve as the substation on a temporary basis in the absence of a separate facility. A hydraulic ladder fire truck, a normal fire tender and a motorbike fire tender would be deployed at the facility. Apart from this, the substation will have manpower of 12.Kulbhushan Goyal, Mayor, Panchkula, said: “We had to start the fire station from a temporary building due to the pressing demands of area residents. A permanent facility will be built soon. The 42-metre hydraulic platform ladder will be helpful to initiate fire operations in high-rise buildings. The issue was taken up at first House meeting of the Municipal Corporation on January 27. It took us only a week to complete the agenda.”Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta inaugurated the substation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fire-substation-set-up-in-sector-20-of-panchkula-207700
04-02-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||20 firms express interest in taking over Chandigarh Electricity Department||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 3As many as 20 companies have intended to take over the distribution of streamlined and profit-earning UT Electricity Department.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said the request for proposal (RFP) had been issued to 20 intended bidders, including Adani Transmission Limited, Tata Power Company Limited, GMR Generation Asset Limited, Sterlite Power, CESC Ltd, Torrent Power, ReNew Power, Greenko Group, LAT Ltd, Feedback Energy Distribution Co Ltd (FEDCO), MB Power Ltd, CLP India Pvt Ltd, EDF India, ENEL Global Infrastructure and Network SRL, Megha Engineering Infrastructure Ltd, India Power Corporation Ltd, DNH Power Distribution Corporation, NTPC Electricity Supply Limited, National Investment and Infrastructure Fund Ltd and Power Grid Corporation of India Ltd (PGCIL).Employees on strikeFebruary 2 was the last date for the purchase of the tenders that could be submitted by February 8.On November 9, 2020, the UT Engineering Department had invited bids for the privatisation of the Electricity Department.On a petition filed by the UT Powermen Union, a Division Bench of the Punjab and Haryana High Court had on December 1, 2020, stayed the tendering process.The Bench was told that the process of privatisation of the wing could not be initiated at all, especially when it was running in profits. However, on January 12, the Supreme Court had stayed the order of the High Court and on January 14, the UT Administration resumed the tendering process for privatisation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/20-firms-express-interest-in-taking-over-chandigarh-electricity-department-207699
04-02-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Video shows Rahul Gandhi in saree, Cong moves court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 3Pradeep Chhabra, Chandigarh Congress president, has lodged a criminal complaint with a local court seeking directions to the Chandigarh Police for registering an FIR against the owners of the Play Boy Club, Emporium Mall, for allegedly defaming Congress leader Rahul Gandhi.The application has been filed before Chief Judicial Magistrate under Section 156(3) of the code of criminal procedure through counsels Ujjval Bhasin and Puneet Chhabra. They want an FIR registered under Sections 153, 154, 294, 500 and 503 of the IPC, read with Section 120-B of the IPC and Section 67 of the IT Act, against the owners and their unknown accomplices and investigate the matter in accordance with the law.It has been alleged in the complaint that the suspects had organised a party in the club on January 30 with a gathering of more than 200 people. In the party, a tempered video with objectionable images were allegedly shown on the screen. Reportedly, on the screen, there was picture of a girl wearing the saree and the face of the girl was replaced with that of Rahul Gandhi.A copy of the CD containing the video has also been attached with the application. The complainant alleged that the video was also posted on the social media .The act was not only defamatory to Rahul Gandhi but also insulted the Congress and sentiments of the people believing in the party’s ideology, said the complainant.Counsels further said a complaint was also lodged before the Director-General of Police (DGP) and Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) for the registration of an FIR, but the police were ignoring their duty by not conducting an investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/video-shows-rahul-gandhi-in-saree-cong-moves-court-207698
04-02-2021||Sandeep Rana||Sixth tender comes to a naught||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 3Despite floating tenders six times for 24X7 water supply project in Mani Majra, Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) has failed to find any agency for carrying out the work.Of the two companies, which had filed bids in the recent tender, only one was found eligible in the technical bid opened today. Thus, the CSCL had to reject the tender citing a single bidder. The tender will be refloated now that may cause a delay in the project.Out of luckThe work was supposed to be completed this year, but due to inordinate delay in allotting the work, the project has been delayed further. After an agency is allotted the work, it will be asked to complete the work in one and a half years.“It is a new project and there are not many players involved in the particular field. So, we are facing issues in attracting bidders,” reasoned a CSCL official.There are two components — capital and installation of water meters — under the project. A total of 13,700 water connections have been planned to be covered in Mani Majra under the project. One of the focus areas is to reduce the leakage of water from the existing 50 per cent to 15 per cent.As per the plan, pipelines will be laid in the outer parts as well as inside the houses to keep water contamination at bay. Earlier, the Municipal Corporation used to lay down pipelines till the outer areas of houses. People used to misuse it by connecting pipelines on their own causing water contamination.Mani Majra is the region for the pilot project following which the work on providing 24X7 water supply to the entire city will be initiated.For the pan-city project, about Rs402 crore loan from French firm Agence Française de Développement (AFD) and Rs96 crore grant from the European Union (EU) was approved in a board meeting of the AFD held in Paris in December last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sixth-tender-comes-to-a-naught-207697
04-02-2021||---||Man assaulted at Mani Majra||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 3A Sector 34 resident was assaulted by four persons near the fish market at Shastri Nagar in Mani Majra.The complainant, Kulwinder Singh Grewal (35), who is a doctor and owns land at Shastri Nagar, reported that he had got information that people illegally sell liquor and gamble on his land. On February 2, Grewal went to the spot where some persons started arguing with him.He alleged that Rinku and three unknown persons assaulted him with sticks. Grewal was admitted to the GMCH, Sector 32, with injuries. A case has been registered at the IT Park police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-assaulted-at-mani-majra-207696
04-02-2021||---||Few takers for PU hostels||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 3Two days after Panjab University (PU) allowed research scholars to stay in hostels, the authorities have received near-to-no response. On January 29, the PU authorities while addressing demands of students’ political parties decided to open hostels for research scholars from February 1 onwards.“We have yet to receive a good response. There are only few research scholars, who have applied for staying in hostels. We have to wait for a few more days to assess the response,” said an official.As per the guidelines, an undertaking has to be submitted by research scholars to the hostel warden forwarded through chairperson of the department concerned that they will follow SOPs.Covid-19 test within a week is compulsory for research scholars before availing the hostel accommodation. All inmates were advised to go through SOPs provided in hostels and adhere to these strictly.Food will be served through tiffin on cash payment basis. Research scholars were advised to bring two tiffins as a precaution during the present Covid-19 situation according to the guidelines issued last month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/few-takers-for-pu-hostels-207695
04-02-2021||---||Negligent consumer not entitled to claim from insurance firm: Panel||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 3The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission UT Chandigarh has upheld the decision of an insurance firm for denying claim to person, who left keys at shop near which his car was stolen.NK Hazara Singh, a resident of Dera Bassi, approached the commission after the insurance company denied claim for his insured car.He said his car was stolen near a shop where he kept keys of the vehicle. The insurance company denied claim while stating that the car was stolen due to complainant’s carelessness.In his complaint Hazara stated that after taking Rs6,00,000 loan from Vijaya Bank, Dera Bassi, he purchased a Maruti Swift VDI car from an authorised dealer in 2017 and the vehicle was insured with New India Assurance Company Ltd.He visited market for purchasing some household items on October 21, 2018, and parked the vehicle at Ram Leela Ground, Dera Bassi, Hazara added.He went to footwear shop where he put car keys on the counter. After purchasing shoes he found keys missing from the counter. Thereafter, the vehicle was found stolen from nearby parking.He filed complaint at the Dera Bassi police station on October 22, 2018. The police failed to identify offenders or recover vehicle and prepared an untraced report during investigation.Later, an application for the claim was filed with the insurance firm, but it was repudiated on the ground that the complainant himself was negligent.Alleging deficiency in service and unfair trade practice on part of the insurance firm the complainant sought commission’s instruction for claim of Rs5,00,000 along with interest and Rs25,000 as litigation expenses.The insurance company justified repudiation of the claim on account of the violation of condition No. 4 of the policy, which amounts to fundamental breach of its terms and conditions.The company stated that the complainant had not taken due and reasonable care to safeguard his vehicle.After hearing arguments the commission found that the complainant failed to explain reasons behind forgetting car keys on the shop counter. The commission further observed: “The complainant says keys were kept at the counter of the shop. Why did he keep keys on the counter is not understandable. Many customers must have visited the shop. By keeping car keys on the counter the complainant gave them a chance to steal them. Thus, the complainant himself facilitated theft of his car. He does not exclude any negligence on his part. Choosing a place at the counter, which is accessible to customers without any reason shows intentionally reasonable steps were not taken to safeguard the vehicle from any loss. Hence, there is fundamental breach of the terms and conditions of the policy.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/negligent-consumer-not-entitled-to-claim-from-insurance-firm-panel-207694
04-02-2021||Chandigarh||Social welfare committee proposes hike in old age, disability, widow pension in Chandigarh||The Social Welfare Committee of the Administrator’s Advisory Council Chandigarh has recommended to the UT Administration to consider the construction of a Majdoor Bhawan and one more old age home in the city.The meeting was held at the UT Guest House under the chairmanship of Satya Pal Jain, former Member of Parliament and Additional Solicitor General of India. The committee has recommended to the UT Administration to increase the old age, disability and widow pension from Rs1000 to Rs2000 per month and take up this issue again with the Union Government for granting its approval to the proposal.Jain, who presided over meeting, said the committee discussed many issues of social welfare and felt that there was a need for one more old age home in Chandigarh.The committee felt that keeping in view the large number of labourers there was an urgent need of a Majdoor Bhawan in Chandigarh where labourers could hold their functions at cheaper rates, he added.The committee discussed the increase in number of beggars in Chandigarh, he said. The panel asked officials to conduct a survey to assess their numbers, especially children and shift them to rescue shelters so that the city could be beggar free in the near future, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/social-welfare-committee-proposes-hike-in-old-age-disability-widow-pension-in-chandigarh-207693
04-02-2021||Chandigarh||Civil engineers society celebrates seventh Foundation Day at PEC||The International Student Chapter of American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) at Punjab Engineering College (PEC) celebrated its seventh Foundation Day zeal.Established in 2014, the main mandate of student chapter at PEC is to create awareness about innovations/advancements in civil engineering while studying. The event was attended by over 100 students.The chief guest of the event was Paritosh Gautam, IES, Indian Railways, who appreciated activities of students. He also released newsletter and announced names of four students Annan, Kartikay, Japsimar, and Ayushi of second year, who were awarded for support and dedication to working of society even during the pandemic.In the concluding session, Rahul Madaan, secretary and joint secretary, presented a vote of thanks.. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/civil-engineers-society-celebrates-seventh-foundation-day-at-pec-207692
04-02-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh youngsters want farm laws revoked||Around hundred members and supporters of the Naujawan Ekta Manch, along with Students for Society (SFS) and PUSF, today extended support to farmers, who are protesting against farm laws on Delhi borders.The protesters gathered at the Sector 17 Plaza and demanded that the three new agriculture laws should be revoked. They also demanded immediate release of farmers arrested by the Delhi Police on Republic Day.Marching along the pavement adjoining shops at the Plaza with Tricolour and farmer union flags, protesters raised slogans of ‘Kisan ekta zindabaad’ and then halted in front of the Rooster-Fountain.Addressing the gathering, Sandeep of SFS drew attention to the ruling party's outlook towards minorities. He said, “The BJP has labelled all Dalits, women and Muslims as anti-nationals. Nation’s economy has not recovered. So, they are want to grab the agri market.”Arsh from the Naujawan Ekta Manch said, “We are here to ask the Modi government where are the people, who were arrested and those who ‘disappeared’ after the Republic Day violence? We are witnessing a growing atmosphere of hate and intolerance in the country.”Mandeep Singh, a city-based advocate rooted for Haryana-Punjab unity and pointed at issues of judiciary. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-youngsters-want-farm-laws-revoked-207691
04-02-2021||Mohali||Ansal Properties instructed to refund Rs1.19 cr to six investors||The State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission Chandigarh has directed Ansal Properties and Infrastructure Limited to refund Rs1.19 crore along with 12 per cent interest to six complainants, who had booked three units in its Mohali-based project Victoria Floors, Golf Link II, Sector 116.While disposing off the three complaints Commission President Justice Raj Shekhar Attri ordered Ansal Properties and Infrastructure Limited (Opposite party) to refund the amount deposited by the six investors in three units of its project along with interest of 12 per cent per annum from the respective dates of deposits onwards.Rachit Kaushal, counsel for the complainants, pleaded that despite the fact that substantial amount was deposited by his clients with the opposite party, but the physical possession of the units purchased by them was not given by the mentioned date. “It has also come to the knowledge of the complainants that the opposite party did not possess requisite permissions/sanctions with respect to the project in question, which was launched in violation of the provisions of relevant Acts, rules etc applicable in Punjab,” he added.The aforesaid act and conduct of the opposite party in all the three complaints amounted to deficiency in providing service and adoption of unfair trade practice, he said.The counsel for the opposite party stated that the company was committed to pay Pre-EMI to bank(s) under subvention scheme and also delayed compensation as per terms and conditions of the agreements till offer of possession of units was made to the complainants.“The construction of units is almost complete. The firm has applied for statutory permissions with the competent authorities and as soon as the same are received, possession of the respective units will be delivered to complainants,” he added. The panel further ordered the company to pay compensation for mental agony, physical harassment and Rs50,000 litigation expenses for each case. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ansal-properties-instructed-to-refund-rs1-19-cr-to-six-investors-207690
04-02-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||CBI court orders to frame charges against 11 accused||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh , February 3Dr Sushil Kumar Garg , special Judge, CBI Court, has ordered to frame charges against 11 accused and a company in the alleged fraud case, which caused over Rs321 crore loss to different banks, including Indian Overseas Bank (IOB). The charges have been framed under Sections 120, 420, 409, 467 and 468, IPC, and Information Technology Act, against the accused. Sections 467 and 468, IPC, were added against the accused after KP Singh, the CBI public prosecutor, insisted on them during hearings.Money siphoned off to Hong Kong firmThe matter dates back to August 8, 2016, when the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Delhi, registered an FIR under Section 120B read with 420 of the IPC and Section 13(2) r/w 13(1) (d) of the PC Act, 1988, on the allegations that certain bank officials and businessmen allegedly managed to siphon off Rs321 crore of the public money to a Hong Kong-based company using fake guarantee issued by the bank.The matter dates back to August 8, 2016, when the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Delhi, registered an FIR under Section 120B read with 420 of the IPC and Section 13(2) r/w 13(1) (d) of the PC Act, 1988, on the allegations that certain bank officials and businessmen allegedly managed to siphon off Rs321 crore of the public money to a Hong Kong-based company using fake guarantee issued by the bank.The agency carried out searches at many locations spread across Chandigarh, Ludhiana, Panchkula, Amritsar and residences of the accused and companies against whom a case had been registered.It was alleged in the FIR that a an assistant manager with the bank helped a company get Letters of Comfort — a kind of guarantee — from the bank in favour of a Hong Kong-based company, which managed to avail credit from Bank of Baroda (BoB), Bahama branch, and Punjab National Bank (PNB), Dubai branch, between 2014 and 2016.In the FIR the CBI named then assistant managers of the Chandigarh branch of the IOB and a proprietor of UT-based company.Initially, the CBI had registered a case against the accused, but later on the Enforcement Directorate also investigated the matter. The Enforcement Directorate took cognizance of an FIR filed by the CBI to file a case under various sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) against the IOB assistant manager and other accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cbi-court-orders-to-frame-charges-against-11-accused-207689
04-02-2021||Chandigarh||Symbolic Rose Fest from  February 26-28 in Chandigarh||The MC will organise the 49th Rose Festival, dedicated to frontline warriors, from February 26 to 28. A meeting of the sub-committee that will organise the symbolic fest was held here today under the chairmanship of Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma,.Members of the committee decided that all frontline worriers would be honoured during the function. It also decided to honour RWAs and other organisations that rendered social service during Covid times. It decided to explore the possibilities of organising simple cultural programmes, including a “Hasya Kavi Darbar” and folk items, through sponsorship, if any. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/symbolic-rose-fest-from-february-26-28-in-chandigarh-207606
04-02-2021||Sandeep Rana||16,300 dogs sterilised, not much impact on ground||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 3Even as the local Municipal Corporation claims to have sterilised stray dogs more than the number of canines recorded in 2018 census, residents feel their population is still growing unabated.Since 2015, when sterilisation was first started in the city, the MC has sterilised 16,300 dogs. A census conducted by the UT Animal Husbandry Department in 2018 pegged the number of stray dogs at 12,920. In 2012 census, their number was 7,928.‘Drive not much visible to residents’The purpose is to stop reproduction in dogs, otherwise there is no use of sterilisation. It is not practically possible to sterilise around 450-500 dogs in a month as it involves many norms. Besides, such campaign is not much visible to local residents. — RK Garg, senior citizenAn MC official, who looks after the sterilisation campaign, said: “We have to contain their population, not finish it. Along with sterilisation, the reproduction of dogs keep happening. It is a cycle. Besides, city borders are open at all sides. Dogs from the neighbouring towns keep coming in the city limits as a large number of residents feed stray dogs here.”However, residents feel otherwise. “The purpose is to stop reproduction in dogs, otherwise there is no use of sterilisation. It is not practically possible to sterilise around 450-500 dogs in a month as it involves many norms. Besides, such campaign is not much visible to local residents. A verification should be carried out by an independent agency, as sterilisation is not being properly done,” said RK Garg, president of a city-based senior citizens’ body.A former nominated councillor and resident of Sector 35, Major DS Sandhu (retd), said: “Going by the MC’s sterilisation drive, the number of dogs should have progressively come down, but it has not happened. The corporation should pick one sector at a time to ensure that not even a single dog is left unoperated.”Surinder Sharma, president, Welfare Society (regd), Sector 15, said: “There is a terror of canines in our sector. Guests find it tough to reach my house as pack of stray dogs start barking at visitors. I think half of the dogs here are still unoperated. The MC should properly carry out its drive.”The MC Medical Officer of Health, Dr Amrit Warring, said: “It takes time to break their cycle. Had sterilisation not been effective, the number of dogs would have been quite higher than what it is now. The drive has also reduced aggressiveness in dogs.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/16-300-dogs-sterilised-not-much-impact-on-ground-207602
04-02-2021||---||Interstate gang providing fake degrees busted||Tribune News ServiceMohali, February 3The police have busted an interstate gang of fake education consultants who duped students and parents in the name of providing academic degrees.The gang used to create false domain names of universities and make fake certificates. They charged up to Rs1.3 lakh from the customers.The suspects have been identified as Nirmal Singh, alias Nimma of Kartarpur village, Mullanpur Garibdas; Mohali resident Ankit Arora, Mathura resident Vishnu Sharma, Meerut resident Sushant Tyagi and Ghaziabad resident Anand Vikram Singh. The police have recovered a large number of fake degrees, printers, scanners, lamination machines, fake holograms, mobile phones, laptops and cars used in the crime.A case was registered under Sections 259, 260,420, 465, 467, 468, 469, 470,471, 473 and 120 of the IPC at the Zirakpur police station on January 26.The suspects had opened study centres at various places in the state under different names and had been operating since 2017. The police said close to 1,000 persons were in contact with them.The SP (Rural), Ravjot Grewal, and DSP of Zirakpur Amro Singh said the arrests had been made from Mohali, Meerut, Mathura and Delhi. “The suspects have been remanded in police custody for one week and are being questioned. More revelations in the case are likely,” they said.ASI, Sr constable held for graftMohali: The Punjab Vigilance Bureau on Wednesday nabbed an ASI and a senior constable while accepting a bribe of Rs10,000. The suspects, ASI Krishan Kumar and senior constable Ajay Gill, posted at Phase 8, were caught taking money from Karan Singh of Nahalan village, Kangra, who resides at Mohali. The complainant had alleged that the suspects were demanding Rs25,000 for releasing his laptop, printer and other valuables which they had seized from his firm, Siaram Loan, at Industrial Area, Phase 8. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/interstate-gang-providing-fake-degrees-busted-207591
04-02-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Haryana sends panel of 3 officers for Chandigarh Home Secretary’s post||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 3The Haryana Government has sent a panel of three IAS officers to succeed Arun Kumar Gupta as the Home Secretary of Chandigarh.The three-year tenure of Gupta, a Haryana-cadre IAS officer of the 1992 batch, will end in May this year. The post is reserved for a Haryana-cadre IAS officer.The Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had approved the appointment of Gupta to the post on inter-cadre deputation from Haryana to Chandigarh for a period of three years in May 2018. The panel sent by Haryana includes the names of Nitin Kumar Yadav (2000 batch), Ravi Pankaj Agarwal (2000 batch) and Vinay Singh (2003 batch).However, the UT Administration is considering the option to ask the Haryana Government to replace the name of 1963-born Vinay Singh on the panel, as he was to retire after nearly a year and a half.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said the final decision would be taken by UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore whether to seek the replacement or not.The UT Administration had asked the Haryana Government to send a panel of officers for the post so that the process to get an approval of the MHA could be started before the tenure of the incumbent Home Secretary ends in May.Apart from being the Secretary of 21 departments of the UT Administration, including Home, finance, prisons, law and justice, medical education and research, water resources, revenue, education, police, tourism, planning, environment and forests, local government, urban planning, excise and taxation, etc, Gupta is also holding the charges of the Chairman, CITCO, the Chief Electoral Officer and the Chief Administrator.The UT Administration had already sought a panel of officers for the post of the Finance Secretary from the Government of Punjab. The post is vacant for a long time.The post of the Chairman of the Chandigarh Housing Board is also vacant in the city.Meanwhile, the three-year deputation of KK Yadav, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, is also to end in May and the tenure of Director General of Police Sanjay Baniwal will complete in June.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/haryana-sends-panel-of-3-officers-for-chandigarh-home-secretarys-post-207589
04-02-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||BJP fields candidates on 49 seats in Mohali||Tribune News ServiceMohali, February 3The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) failed to field candidates in all 50 wards of the Mohali Municipal Corporation, which goes to the polls on February 14. The party could find candidates for 49 seats, who have filed their nominations for the elections.While 33 candidates of the party filed their nominations today, 16 did so a day before. The party was unable to field its candidate from ward number 33. Among those who filed their nominations today included former councillor Arun Sharma and Sahibee Anand.The candidates were led by senior BJP leader KD Bhandari.Bhandari claimed that nomination for ward number 33 could not be filed as their candidate Paramjit Kaur had to attend some marriage function. He said it was for the first time that the party would be contesting the MC elections on its own and added that they would start the poll campaign vigorously tomorrow.When asked why the candidates had put up their election posters without the party symbol, Bhandari said candidates would contest the elections on the party symbol, lotus, and added that the party would provide all elections material to the candidates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjp-fields-candidates-on-49-seats-in-mohali-207587
04-02-2021||Mohali||1 more fatality in Mohali||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-more-fatality-in-mohali-207586
04-02-2021||Panchkula||9 fresh cases in Panchkula district||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/9-fresh-cases-in-panchkula-district-207585
04-02-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees one death, 36 cases||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-one-death-36-cases-207584
04-02-2021||Naina Mishra||Vaccine hesitancy existed among mothers in Chandigarh: Study||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 3‘Vaccine hesitancy’ amid the Covid vaccination programme is not a new phenomenon as such hesitancies have existed in the past as well, revealed a study carried out by a PGI doctor in the city over a period of one year.Among 305 mothers, around 97 per cent thought childhood vaccines were important, effective and a good way to protect against diseases. However, 69 per cent women preferred their children to receive fewer co-administered vaccines and 39 per cent were concerned about the side effects.Around 8 per cent mothers had refused a vaccine at some point, and mothers who were vaccine-hesitant had 4.63 time greater odds of vaccine refusal. Around 9 per cent had delayed a vaccine, and the delay was significantly higher among mothers who were vaccine-hesitant.As compared to the “other caste” groups, the Scheduled Castes or the Scheduled Tribes had 3.48 times greater odds of vaccine-hesitancy. Those with high school education had 0.10 times the odds of vaccine-hesitancy compared to those with less education. Finally, those having more antenatal care visits were less vaccine-hesitant. “In this study, there was a positive relationship between education and vaccine hesitancy, with more educated mothers less likely to be vaccine-hesitant,” said the study. It describes the socio-demographic patterns of vaccine-hesitancy in the city. Mothers of children less than five years old were sampled from a two-stage cluster, a systematic sampling based on anganwadi childcare centres of the UT.The study took place between June 2017 and June 2018. It was embedded in a larger project the aim of which was to characterise measles antibody levels. Vaccine hesitancy was measured using a 10-item vaccine hesitancy scale, which was dichotomised. A total of 305 households with mothers were interviewed.The study was conducted by Dr Joseph L Mathew, department of paediatrics, PGI, and Dr Abram L Wagner, Dr Abigail R Shotwell and Dr Matthew L Boulton, from department of epidemiology, School of Public Health, University of Michigan, US.The ongoing Covid pandemic could interplay with vaccine hesitancy, particularly as the previous literature has documented increases in vaccine-hesitancy in response to pandemics.“Although this survey in Chandigarh found relatively muted vaccine-hesitancy in the general population, perceptions could rapidly shift with misinformation spread during the Covid-19 pandemic. Addressing problems in adult vaccination in India may be particularly challenging, as most vaccination recommendations focus on children, and the seasonal influenza guidelines focus on adults with chronic disease,” the study stated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vaccine-hesitancy-existed-among-mothers-in-chandigarh-study-207581
04-02-2021||Mohali||54 inoculated in Mohali district||Mohali SSP Satinder Singh, ADC(G) Aashika Jain and ADC(D) Rajiv Gupta were among the first officers of the civil and police administration of the district who, in the presence of Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan, got Covishield jabs at Civil Hospital here today during the launch of the second phase of the vaccination drive.The Deputy Commissioner said 8,621 frontline warriors from the district had been registered at the Co-WIN portal and 54 vaccinated as of now. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/54-inoculated-in-mohali-district-207577
04-02-2021||---||Tepid response from frontline workers in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, February 3The first day of the vaccination of frontline workers received a lukewarm response as only 66 of them were inoculated against a target of 150 beneficiaries.A total of 38 police officers were vaccinated at Police Hospital, Sector 26, while 28 Municipal Corporation workers were vaccinated at the GMSH-16. Among the health workers, 314 received the jab against a target of 1,004.The UT Health Department had started vaccination against Covid-19 on January 16 after a formal launch by the Prime Minister. In the initial phase, all healthcare workers were accorded priority for voluntary vaccination.In the next phase, the Centre today started the vaccination drive for frontline workers, which include police personnel, MC employees, revenue officials, paramilitary forces, etc.The drive was inaugurated at a vaccination centre, Police Hospital, by UT DGP Sanjay Baniwal. Inspector Rajni became the first frontline official to get the shot at this centre followed by the DGP. Post-vaccination, Baniwal gave a motivational message to all his officers and jawans that together they can defeat Covid and there is no need to be sacred of it.During the vaccination drive, SSP KS Chahal, SP (HQ) Manoj Meena, SP (Traffic) Ketan Bansal and Shruti Arora, IPS, along with other officials of the Police Department got themselves vaccinated.At the vaccination centre in the GMSH, MC chief KK Yadav led from the front in getting himself vaccinated first and setting an example for the rest of the civic body officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tepid-response-from-frontline-workers-in-chandigarh-207576
