05-02-2021||Chandigarh||Ex-IAS, judges appointed chairmen cannot retain govt accommodation||Retired senior government functionaries, including bureaucrats and judges, will not be able to retain their palatial government bungalows in Chandigarh even after their appointment as the chairmen of various commissions. With new rules, the Government Residences (Chandigarh Administration General Pool) Allotment (Amendment) Rules, 2020, coming in force, retaining government accommodation would be an uphill task for the retired IAS officers and judges even after their post-retirement rehabilitation. Now, only five chairpersons of the statutory commissions such as the chairpersons of Human Rights Commission, the Lokayuktas, the Chief Information Commissioners, the State Election Commissioners and the Chief Commissioners of Right to Service established by Punjab, Haryana and UT Chandigarh will be entitled for the government accommodation.  “The state government/UT Administrator will decide as to which commission would be given benefit. The quota of five houses under this category will not be extended under any circumstances,” a notification issued by Vinod P Kavle, Secretary, House Allotment Committee of the Chandigarh Administration, said. Till now, a majority of the former IAS and IPS officers and judges managed their posting as the chairpersons of various commissions enabling them to retain their government accommodation even after retirement. With former bureaucrats and judges blocking government accommodation even after their retirement, a large number of eligible officers from Punjab, Haryana and UT Chandigarh are staying in below category houses or transit accommodation or in UT guest house.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ex-ias-judges-appointed-chairmen-cannot-retain-govt-accommodation-208373
05-02-2021||Mohali||Kharar man killed in road crash, wife found murdered at home||In a sensational turn of events, a Kharar man and his wife lost their lives in an hour around 3:45 am on Friday.Bhopal native Waris Quameruddin, presently a resident of Sunny Enclave, Kharar, died in a road crash after his car hit a truck at Toggan light point around 3:45 am.Later, Kharar police found the deceased’s wife, Varsha Chauhan, murdered at their residence.The couple had taken the house on rent a month ago. Cops are verifying the claims that a heated exchange of words took place between the couple late at night.SI Mohan Singh along with police officials found that one accident vehicle along with the driver was lying at the spot. He was shifted to GMSH Sector 16, Chandigarh. During the treatment, duty doctor declared him dead.The news regarding the death of Waris has already been given to his brother and mother in Bhopal. Postmortem of the deceased will be conducted after arrival of his legal heir.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kharar-man-killed-in-road-crash-wife-found-murdered-at-home-208359
05-02-2021||Chandigarh||City reports two thefts||Child labour: Cops book eightChandigarh: Eight persons have been booked by the local police for employing children at their establishments in Burail. Twelve children were rescued during the drive, which was conducted recently. According to the police, Mohammad Irshad, Child Protection Officer, reported that shopkeepers Sanjeev, Raman, Honey, Gaurav, Satbir Goyal, RK Sharma and Harider Singh, alias Joggi, and an unknown person had employed child labour at their establishments. A case was registered at the Sector 34 police station on February 3. TNSDBU Chancellor awardedChandigarh: The Shaheed Bhagat Singh Youth Sports & Cultural Club (Regd), Kapurgarh, Punjab, awarded Zora Singh, Chancellor, Desh Bhagat University, for humanity, education, entrepreneurship and excellence in social work. TNSProtest march by mediapersonsRopar: Members of the District Press Clubs’ Association, Rupnagar, took out a march to protest the arrest and implication of journalists, covering events related to farmers agitation in alleged false cases. The march started from the Rupnagar Press Club and culminated at the Mini-Secretariat, where the journalists submitted a memorandum to Deputy Commissioner Sonali Giri. The memorandum was addressed to President of India. Association president Bahadurjeet Singh condemned the arrest of journalists by the Delhi Police and registration of false cases against journalists in UP, MP and Delhi. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/city-reports-two-thefts-208276
05-02-2021||---||15 more test +ve in Mohali||15 more test +ve in Mohalimohali: The district reported 15 fresh Covid cases during the past 24 hours, taking the total number of positive cases to 19,551. No fresh death was reported, while 34 more patients recovered from the virus. The district has so far seen 19,551 cases. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/15-more-test-ve-in-mohali-208184
05-02-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Papers of two BJP candidates rejected||Tribune News ServiceMohali, February 4In a major blow to the BJP, the nomination papers of its five candidates, including a former councillor and covering candidates, were cancelled by the returning officers during the scrutiny of papers for the Mohali MC elections today.The main candidates whose nominations papers were cancelled were Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha national executive member and former councillor Sahibee Anand and Harish Chaudhary.The nomination papers of three covering candidates of the party were also found not in order. Apart from this, the nomination papers of a candidate each of the Shiromani Akali Dal and the PDP and an Independent candidate have also been rejected.The nomination papers of Preetinder Jeet Kaur, SAD candidate from ward number 1, Harpal Singh, PDP candidate from ward number 20, and Independent candidate Ravinder Kumar from ward number 24 have been rejected.Senior BJP leader KD Bhandari said the nomination papers of Harish Chaudhary, who had filed papers under the reserve category, were rejected as he had submitted a certificate issued by the Rajasthan Government. He said the papers of Sahibee Anand and his covering candidate Piyush Anand were rejected as they had failed to get the signatures of the proposers.A total of 47 nomination papers for seats in the Mohali Municipal Corporation and seven Municipal Councils in the district have been rejected while the papers of 1,456 candidates were found to be valid during scrutiny.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said 406 nomination papers for the Mohali MC elections were found in order while 13 were rejected.Other civic bodiesSimilarly, 174 nomination papers were found valid and five rejected for the Nayagaon civic body elections. The papers of 56 candidates contesting the Banur MC elections were found valid and one was rejected. At Kurali, 99 nomination papers were found valid and seven rejected while 146 nominations were found valid and four were rejected at Dera Bassi. At Zirakpur, 222 nomination papers were found valid while seven were rejected. At Lalru, all 129 nomination papers were found valid. For the Kharar civic body elections, 224 nomination papers were found valid while 10 were rejected.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/papers-of-two-bjp-candidates-rejected-208186
05-02-2021||---||2 POs held with weapons||Mohali, February 4 The police have arrested two proclaimed offenders (POs) with illegal weapons from the Dera Bassi area. The accused have been identified as Harmanjit Singh (25) and Arun Sarwan (23), alias Vishu, both residents of Moga. The police also recovered two pistols, three magazines and five live cartridges from their possession. The duo had already been declared as proclaimed offenders by the court. Divulging details, Senior Superintendent of Police Satinder Singh said they got a tip-off about them. A police team, led by SP (Rural) Ravjot Kaur Grewal and Dera Bassi DSP Gurbakhshish Singh, laid a naka near the Dappar toll plaza. The accused, who were walking towards Lalru, were stopped on suspicion. On frisking, a pistol, a magazine and two live cartridges were recovered from Harmanjit, while a pistol, two magazines and three live cartridges were recovered from Vishu. Satinder Singh said the motive of both accused was to commit heinous crime in the city during the election days. Inspector Sukhveer Singh, SHO of the Lalru police station, said: “The suspects are history-sheeters. Four criminal cases were already registered against them at a police station in Moga. During interrogation, the duo had confessed that they had purchased weapons from the Ambala area. Further probe is on in the matter.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-pos-held-with-weapons-208187
05-02-2021||---||Shot in the arm for Congress||Mohali, February 4The Congress received a shot in the arm when 40 leaders and workers from various political outfits joined the party in the presence of Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu and Amarjeet Singh Jeeti Sidhu at a function held at the Guru Nanak market in Mohali.Prominent among those who joined the Congress include Rakesh Kumar Rinku, a senior Akali leader and president of the Guru Nanak Market, Phase 1, Rajinder Singh Bhullar, Shamsher Singh, Parminder Singh, Vijay Pal, Nika Ram, Jatin Rajpal, Manjit Singh, Mikku, Charanjit Singh Saini and Jaswinder Singh Kaka.Suman Garg, Congress candidates from Ward No. 47, Ravinder Singh from Ward No. 46 and Meena Kaundal from Ward No. 45 were also present on the occasion.Speaking on the occasion, Balbir Sidhu said: “The MC elections are directly related to Mohali’s development. So, it is the responsibility of the public to examine candidates’ capabilities to perform according to their expectations. It’s the duty of the public to vote and elect those councillors who can work tireless and honestly for general interest and not for their own personal gains. Thus it’s the public who have to differentiate rationally between paid candidates and those who can work for you and your betterment”.Seeking support for Congress candidates Suman Garg, Ravinder Singh and Meena Kaundal, Balbir Sidhu said they were involved in social service since long and were known in their respective areas for their dedication towards work. Even Ravinder, who is contesting for the first time, had been doing public service since long.Sidhu said these kind of dedicated candidates, if elected, would have only one agenda to work for the welfare of people and not for their own vested interest.Targeting rivals, Sidhu said the Congress was the only party that had put up a united face in the MC elections. He said oppositions were like ‘khichdi’ where some went on one side while some on the other.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shot-in-the-arm-for-congress-208188
05-02-2021||---||Vikram shines in golf meet||Chandigarh, February 4Patiala’s Vikram Goyal won the Open Golf Championship, organised by “Golf Experts and Central Town” at the Forest Hill Golf and Country Club.Dr BP Singh and CA Sanjeev Sharma, bagged the second and third positions, respectively, in the championship.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vikram-shines-in-golf-meet-208189
05-02-2021||---||14 fresh cases in Panchkula||14 fresh cases in Panchkulapanchkula: The district on Thursday reported 14 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the overall tally to 10,567. The Covid toll remained at 147. While 10,321 patients have recovered from the disease so far, 99 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 97.67 per cent. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/14-fresh-cases-in-panchkula-208180
05-02-2021||---||Chandigarh reports one death, 12 cases||City reports one death, 12 caseschandigarh: The city on Thursday reported 12 coronavirus cases, taking the tally to 21,036. The city also witnessed one death. A 75-year-old man from Sector 46, also a case of hypertension and severe acute respiratory distress syndrome, died at Grecian Hospital, Mohali. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-one-death-12-cases-208181
05-02-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Parliamentary panel seeks progress report on shorter route to airport||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 4The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Home Affairs wants to be kept informed about the progress made on a separate entry to the Chandigarh International Airport from the UT side.In its report tabled in the Lok Sabha, the committee recommended that it would like to be updated about the progress made with regard to the decision of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) of conducting a feasibility study of connectivity to the airport from the Purv Marg side near Sector 48 through the Jagatpura area.What the panel saidIn its earlier recommendations, the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Home Affairs had stated that it was aware that a short approach road towards the airport was functional in the past. “However, now, around 30 km extra needs to be covered while travelling to the airport because the entry has changed to the other side and reaching it is time consuming,” said the panel.In its earlier recommendations, the committee had stated that it was aware that the short approach road towards the airport was functional in the past. “However, now, around 30 km extra needs to be covered while travelling to the airport because the entry has changed to the other side and reaching it is time consuming,” said the panel.As a huge amount had been invested in this international airport, the committee, therefore, recommended that the MHA should conduct a meeting with the UT Adviser, the chief secretaries of Punjab and Haryana and the Secretary, Civil Aviation, and resolve the issue of the 7-km stretch towards the airport. “If need be, it may be taken up at the MHA level with the chief ministers concerned,” the committee had suggested.In response to the recommendations of the committee, the MHA submitted that three alternative approaches were suggested in the Chandigarh Master Plan, 2031. These alternatives were discussed at various meetings and the DMRC was appointed as consultant by the UT Administration.The matter with regard to further approach to the airport was deliberated upon. It was discussed that as per the master plan, one option had been given for connectivity to the airport from Purv Marg near Sector 48 through the Jagatpura area. The issue was deliberated upon for the shortest route to the airport and it was decided that the proposal may be explored by the Chief Engineer, UT, for its feasibility in coordination with the Punjab Government for necessary action.“There should be an alternative route to the airport, which will make it easier and shorter for residents of Chandigarh and Haryana to reach the airport. It will also save a lot of fuel and travel time of the people,” said Manoj Parida, UT Adviser.The Ministry of Defence should allow an entry gate from the Chandigarh side to the airport so that passengers could go without any hassle, he said, adding that the matter was also discussed at the inter-state council meeting held in Delhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/parliamentary-panel-seeks-progress-report-on-shorter-route-to-airport-208183
05-02-2021||Chandigarh||Man killed as SUV rams tree||A 33-year-old model and aspiring actor died after the SUV he was riding met with a mishap on the road separating Sector 27 and 30 on the intervening night of February 3 and 4. The victim, identified as Mohan Kapoor, a native of Ludhiana, was riding a Scorpio with his friend Ravinder, a Sector 28 resident who is a bouncer. The police said the SUV went out of control and hit a tree. On getting information about the mishap, the police reached the spot. The victim was rushed to a hospital where he was declared brought dead. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-killed-as-suv-rams-tree-208185
05-02-2021||---||CII for Chandigarh planning board||Chandigarh, February 4 The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) calls for a greater Chandigarh region planning board in line with the NCR Planning Board for the overall development of the tricity and coordination among the respective governments, said Dr SPS Grewal while interacting with UT Adviser Manoj Parida at UT Secretariat yesterday.   The NCR Planning Board Act was enacted in 1985 with the concurrence of the participating states of Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh.    The rationale behind this was to promote balanced and harmonised development of the region.  Dr Grewal said: “Chandigarh also needs to grow in tandem with the national economy or may be even at a much higher rate of growth compared to national average. The greater Chandigarh region planning board will help in the overall development of the region.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cii-for-chandigarh-planning-board-208164
05-02-2021||Patiala||Docs on hunger strike against ‘mixopathy’||Doctors associated with the Indian Medical association (IMA) in the city today held a hunger strike as a mark of protest against the Centre Government’s proposal to allow mixing of various treatments and procedures carried out under the modern science along with those of ‘Unani’ and ‘Ayush’.Under the “Save healthcare India movement” doctors said they had launched massive awareness drives across the country as the government proposal was a threat to the safety and healthcare of the people. Doctors across the country are holding relay hunger strikes from February 1 to February 14.Part of the protest, Dr Neeraj Goyal, president, IMA, Patiala, said, “The Centre Government through its recent notification aims to allow practitioners of traditional sciences to carry out procedures, part of the modern sciences, to increase number of available doctors. This will affect the healthcare system as they are not well taught with procedures we carry out and study for since the MBBS. We are not against other sciences, but the government should not allow ‘mixopathy’.”“The government aims to allow practitioners of ‘Unani’ and ‘Ayush’ among others to carry out over 130 procedures, including dental, general, piles-related, major, abdominal and other surgeries,” he added.The association said they were joined by members of the dental association while the IMA had directed its Medical Students’ Network (MSN), Junior Doctors’ Network (JDN), IMA Women’s’ Wing, IMA Hospital Board, in-service doctors and medical colleges to participate in the movement.“On the last day of the fasting, the IMA will launch ‘capital chalo’ movements in each state,” the association added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/docs-on-hunger-strike-against-mixopathy-208165
05-02-2021||---||Chandigarh MC House to discuss Budget||Chandigarh, February 4  The local Municipal Corporation will take up the agenda of Rs1,627-crore Budget proposal for 2021-22 for approval in the House meeting tomorrow. The Budget estimates of Rs443 crore under the capital head and Rs1,184 crore under the revenue head for the upcoming financial year have been proposed. The civic body is perplexed as under the Union Budget, it has received Rs502 crore grant-in-aid even as its Finance and Contract Committee had recently approved Rs1172 crore grant-in-aid. Councillors and officials will discuss ways to make arrangements for funds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-house-to-discuss-budget-208166
05-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Four councillors elected unopposed||Fatehgarh Sahib, February 4After scrutiny of papers, Gurpreet Singh, alias Lalli, former councillor and a close confidant of MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra, was elected unopposed from Ward No. 12 of the Sirhind-Fatehgarh Sahib Municipal Council (MC) as nomination papers of the rival candidate were rejected.Besides, Munish Rani, the Congress candidate from Ward No. 7 of the Sirhind-Fatehgarh Sahib MC, was also elected unopposed as nomination papers of the rival candidate were rejected.Similarly, in Mandi Gobindgarh Harpreet Singh Prince, the Congress candidate and former councillor, was elected unopposed from Ward No. 4 and Narinder Kaushal Contractor, another Congress candidate from Ward No. 28, was also elected unopposed.The nomination papers of 19 candidates out of 167 were rejected in the Sirhind-Fatehgarh Sahib MC.Fot the Mandi Gobindgarh civic body, 20 nominations were rejected out of 249. Meanwhile, papers of all candidates were found in order in Bassi Pathana and Khamano civic bodies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-councillors-elected-unopposed-208167
05-02-2021||Patiala||Experts dwell on cancer treatment||Doctors discussed various cancer treatment facilities available at Government Rajindra Hospital on the World Cancer Day. The talk was organised at the Department of Radiation Oncology, Rajindra Hospital.The Medical Superintendent, Dr HS Rekhi, said the state planned to install PET SCAN at Rajindra Hospital for the benefit of cancer patients. Dr Raja Paramjeet Singh explained modalities of cancer treatment, including radiotherapy, chemotherapy and palliative care.Dr Vinod Kumar Dangwal gave information about linear accelerator machine used for treatment of cancer patients. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/experts-dwell-on-cancer-treatment-208168
05-02-2021||Amit Bathla||Public toilets in dismal state||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, February 4Even though Panchkula takes immense pride in the open defecation-free (ODF) ++ certificate granted to the city by the Centre, the ground situation is contrasting to the cleanliness feat it has attained for the third time in a row.Most public washrooms were either found dirty or in an unusable state on a visit by the The Tribune correspondent. Thus, the practice of defecating in open continues.Broken gates, no provision for water, irregular excreta disposal, stink and no gender symbols are some of the features of public toilets.In consequence, one could find people relieving themselves at several spots such as spaces under flyovers and other abandoned corners.Vikas Kumar, an auto driver, said: “The nearby toilet in Sector 5 is filthy and stinky with piled-up excreta. How one is supposed to use it?”It is no wonder why a similar toilet erected near Amartex Chowk, one of the busiest interjections, hardly sees any user throughout the day. This toilet also lacks a water storage tank.Even the washroom located near the Sector 8 petrol pump, which the MC says has been given the tag of ‘aspirational’ toilet, was not found up to the mark. Its floor was dirty, a chair was placed on the door of the women’s cabin and the men’s cabin lacked soap.As per the Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM) ODF++ protocol of the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, a city/ward/work circle can be notified/declared as ODF++ if, at any point of the day, not a single person is found defecating/urinating in the open, all community and public toilets are functional and well-maintained.However, RK Singh, Panchkula Municipal Corporation Commissioner, couldn’t be contacted for his remarks on the issue.Kulbhushan Goyal, Mayor, said they would make sure all public toilets were maintained and cleaned regularly. “You will see a change soon,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/public-toilets-in-dismal-state-208169
05-02-2021||---||Chandigarh police told to file report by March 1||Chandigarh, February 4A local court today issued a notice to the UT police and asked them to furnish a report by March 1 on the complaint against alleged defamation of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi.The complaint was filed by Chandigarh Congress president Pradeep Chhabra for directing the police to register an FIR against the owners of the Play Boy Club in the city. The complaint was taken up before the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate today, who then sought a report from the police in the matter.The application was filed under Section 156(3) of the code of criminal procedure. Counsels of the petitioner contended that no action has been taken by the Chandigarh Police so far against the club owners despite lodging a complaint with the Director-General of Police and Senior Superintendent of Police.It has been alleged in the complaint that a party was organised in the club on January 30 with a gathering of more than 200 people. In the party, a “morphed” video with objectionable images were allegedly shown on a screen. Reportedly, in one of the images, there was picture of a girl wearing a saree and the face of the girl was replaced with that of Rahul Gandhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-police-told-to-file-report-by-march-1-208170
05-02-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Bank penalised for wrongful transaction||Tribune news serviceChandigarh, February 4The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, has penalised a bank after it failed to refund Rs40,000 to a consumer that were wrongfully transferred to the account of another customer.The Commission also directed the bank to pay a compensation of Rs10,000 to the complainant for mental agony and harassment and Rs5,000 as the cost of litigation.Meenakshi Devi of Sector 70, Mohali, had approached the commission when the bank failed to deposit the amount into her account after it was wronglfully transferred to the account of another consumer. She said she visited an SBI ATM in Sector 22-D on August 15, 2018, for withdrawal of cash. However, due to some technical problems, the amount could not be withdrawn. On the same date, she received an SMS that an amount of 40,000 has been debited from her account and transferred in the account of another customer. She said lodged a complaint the next day on August 16, 2018, but the amount was not restored.Meanwhile, the bank claimed they had no knowledge with regards to any technical problem with the ATM.The bank said they had performed their duty towards the complainant and assured her that the matter will be looked into. The bank also stated that the complainant should have maintained the ATM secrecy and it was a cyber crime. So, the bank was not liable to pay the amount.After hearing the arguments, the Commission noted complainant was not at fault and there was inaction on the part of the bank and the bank did not inquire into the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bank-penalised-for-wrongful-transaction-208171
05-02-2021||Deepankar Sharda---||City golfer Yuvraj Sandhu eyes PGTI titles||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, February 4 City-based golfer Yuvraj Singh Sandhu is all set to start afresh his Professional Golf Tour of India (PGTI) tour after an unscheduled Covid-19 pandemic break. Last year, Sandhu finished 14th on the PGTI Order of Merit and currently holds 956th spot on the Official World Golf Ranking (OWGR). The pandemic precluded his full-fledged participation from PGTI and Asian tours. However, he is now eyeing the titles of Gujarat Open Championship 2021 at Kalahar Blues & Greens and Glade One Masters 2021 at Glade One Golf Course, Ahmedabad, starting later this month. “It’s been a tough off-season due to the pandemic. With not much happening in golf, I worked on improving physical strength, explosive power, mobility and balance. Also, I have customised my equipment in conjunction with expert coaches,” said Sandhu. While talking on improving skills, Sandhu said: “I have put in concerted efforts to refine short game and putting. It was not a usual off-season. Players have gone through many ups and downs. However, I believe that the coming season will bring in some good new ahead.” He is looking forward to multiple wins on the tours and finish amongst top five on the PGTI Order of Merit. On the OWGR, he is eyeing to join the top 300 league. “After these two events (Gujarat), I will be waiting for my international assignments. Last year, during the 2020 Asian Tour Q School, I secured a B-card. Since the Asian Tour season was truncated due to the pandemic, I retained this B-card status on tour. Let’s see how it goes. From April onwards, I will be having a plenty of events to give my best,” said Sandhu. Last year, he played seven tournaments on PGTI and made six cuts, including top-five finish in two. “I ended the year with a tied-8th in a star-studded field in the Tata Tour Championship held at Tata Nagar. My short-term goal is to play full-time on the PGTI and Asian tours in 2021. My mid-term goals are to graduate to the European Tour in 2022, win an Asian Games gold medal in 2022, move onto the PGA Tour in 2024 and win an Olympic gold medal in 2024. So, the post-Covid break period is really important for me for nurturing my golfing career,” said Sandhu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/city-golfer-yuvraj-sandhu-eyes-pgti-titles-208172
05-02-2021||---||Bank employees protest privatisation||Chandigarh, February 4 Over 500 members affiliated to the United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU), an apex body of nine trade unions of bank employees and officers, participated in a lunch-time demonstration against the sale of two public sector banks and one general insurance company as announced by the Finance Minister in the Budget speech. The demonstration was held in front of the State Bank of India, Main Branch, Bank Square, Sector 17, here, today. Sanjeev Bandlish, Deepak Sharma, Jagdish Rai, BS Gill and other leaders from various constituents of the UFBU shared their views. The leaders and members were of the view that banks and insurance companies deal with people’s money. They said privatising these means handing over people’s money to private vested interests. Bad loans and NPAs in banks had been increasing year after year because of corporate defaulters. Instead of taking tough action on them, the government wants to whitewash the balance sheets by shifting these bad loans from the books of the banks to the assets reconstruction company or the bad bank. This will only benefit the corporate defaulters and remove all bad loans from public glare and silently write them off.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bank-employees-protest-privatisation-208173
05-02-2021||Chandigarh||Commission issues bailable warrant against firm directors||Revenue officers of Mohali district are in the dock as the State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, UT, has directed the Mohali Deputy Commissioner(DC) to conduct an inquiry into the delay in attaching and auctioning the property of Ansal Lotus Melange Projects Limited despite the commission’s order. The commission asked the DC to submit the action-taken report against the guilty revenue officials within two months and to attach the property of the builder. It issued a bailable warrant against the directors of the firm.  Girish Kumar Aggarwal, a resident, filed an execution over non-compliance with the commission’s order wherein it directed the Kharar Tehsildar to attach the property of Ansal project and put it for auction to recover decretal amount of Rs21,45,738 as arrears of land revenue. The commission held that the conduct of the directors was punishable and issued summons to face the trial. The commission said the presence of the directors and the additional director be secured through bailable warrant of arrest in sum of Rs50,000 each with one surety each in the like amount for the next date of hearing. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/commission-issues-bailable-warrant-against-firm-directors-208174
05-02-2021||Sandeep Rana||Unregistered pets, aggressive strays to reach MC dog pound||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 4Aggressive stray dogs and pet dogs that are not registered or are found violating bylaws will be kept at a Municipal Corporation dog pound, which will come up at Raipur Kalan here in the coming months.The dog pound will have a capacity of keeping 300-350 canines in kennels. “Aggressive dogs will be temporarily kept under observation here to find out whether they are rabid. After a few days of procedure, they will be left at the place from where they were picked,” said an official of the MC wing concerned.“Besides, if it is found that a pet dog is not registered with the MC or its owner is violating norms, the animal will be kept at the dog pound. There is also a legal provision for auctioning such a dog in case of a major violation. However, we generally would not go that far as dogs often eat and stay comfortably with their owner. So, we will ask the owner to ensure adhering to the norms like vaccination, proper dog care and registration,” he added.The state-of-the-art pound will also have a dog care unit where injured canines will be treated. It will also house a laboratory, a hospital and an operation theatre for dogs.The centre, which is being built on about 2 to 2.50 acres, will have a facility of sterilising about 1,000 stray dogs. The MC is presently using the facilities of the Animal Husbandry Department, Sector 38-C, and the SPCA, Sector 38.An engineering department official said the work on the pound started a few months ago and would be completed in the coming season. About 75 per cent work had been completed. Its construction was earlier delayed due to shortage of funds.The MC has sterilised 16,300 dogs since 2015, when sterilisation was first started in the city. A census conducted by the UT Animal Husbandry Department in 2018 pegged the number of stray dogs at 12,920. About 25 to 30 dog-bite cases on an average are reported from the city every day.Injured to be treated too||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/unregistered-pets-aggressive-strays-to-reach-mc-dog-pound-208175
05-02-2021||Amit Bathla||Centre flags Chandigarh’s poor vax coverage||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 4The Centre has underlined the poor Covid vaccine coverage of the top priority group in Chandigarh.As per data shared by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the UT finds itself in a group of 11 states that have covered 30 per cent or less of healthcare workers in the vaccination drive.On the list, it is placed fifth with only 22.60 per cent coverage, followed by Dadra and Nagar Haveli (21 per cent), Assam (20.20 per cent), Nagaland (19.60 per cent), Meghalaya (15.20 per cent), Manipur (12.80 per cent) and Puducherry (12.60 per cent).Till February 3, the UT could only vaccinate its 4,440 healthcare workers against a target of 20,000 medical professionals.On Wednesday, only 314 healthcare workers received the jab against a target of 1,000, registering a coverage rate of just 31.4 percent.Only 42.8 per cent of the 500 targeted beneficiaries had turned up at the five session sites in the city on Tuesday.So far, the UT has operationalised 12 vaccination sites. The number of the sites and sessions vary every day.Though the UT is still battling to improve its vaccination coverage among health workers, the Administration on Wednesday began immunising its frontline workers.The first day of the second priority group’s vaccination, too, witnessed a lukewarm response with only 44 per cent of the targeted beneficiaries being inoculated.When contacted over the phone, UT Home Secretary Arun Gupta said, “The exercise is voluntary and a matter of ‘personal decision’ for people whether to get a shot or not. Vaccine hesitancy could be more in Chandigarh. That is why the drive turnout is low.”He hung up before this correspondent could enquire about the steps the UT plans to take to improve the coverage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/centre-flags-chandigarhs-poor-vax-coverage-208176
05-02-2021||Chandigarh||Pedestrian dies in hit-&-run||In a hit-and-run case, a pedestrian was killed after being hit by a vehicle near the Transport light point.  According to the police, a van sped away after hitting the victim, Munni Devi, alias Juman Devi, a resident of Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, on February 3. The police were informed and the victim was rushed to the GMSH, Sector 16, where she later succumbed to the injuries.  The registration number of the vehicle was noted down, which was provided to the police. Later, the driver, Satnam Singh (29), a resident of Ferozepur district, was arrested and the vehicle impounded. The police have registered a case at the Sector 26 police station. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pedestrian-dies-in-hit-run-208177
05-02-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh witnesses 6.6-mm rainfall||The city today recorded 6.6 mm of rainfall, which is more than the total rainfall received in February last year, when the city had recorded a total rainfall of 0.9 mm. In February 2019, however, 39.8 mm of rainfall was reported in a single day on February 8. Winds blew across the city throughout the day. The maximum temperature recorded today was 16.5°C, four degrees below normal, while the minimum temperature was 12.6°C, six degrees above normal. In the coming days, the maximum temperature is expected to increase, while the minimum temperature is likely to fall. Tomorrow, there is no forecast of rain, but the sky is expected to be partly cloudy. The sky is likely to be mainly clear on Saturday and Sunday. Moderate to dense fog is expected. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-witnesses-6-6-mm-rainfall-208178
05-02-2021||Chandigarh||Shatabdi to resume services from February 8||After 10 months, the Northern Railway has decided to restart the New Delhi-Kalka Shatabdi from February 8.The train services were suspended in March last year due to Covid. Despite the restoration of train services, the New Delhi-Kalka Shatabdi remained cancelled owning to the farmers’ stir in Punjab.From New Delhi to Kalka, it will be numbered 02005, while in the opposite direction, it will be numbered 02006.The Shatabdi will leave the New Delhi railway station at 5.15 pm and reach Kalka at 9.15 pm the same day.It will stop at Panipat, Kurukshetra, Ambala Cantt and Chandigarh.In the reverse direction, the train will depart from Kalka at 6.15 am and reach its destination at 10.15 am. —TNSAnother Shatabdi was revived in DecAnother Shatabdi Express (02011/02012), which also runs between New Delhi and Kalka, was revived in December last year. The train departs from the New Delhi railway station at 7.40 am and reaches the Kalka railway station at 11.45 am. During the return journey, the train leaves Kalka at 5.45 pm and reaches New Delhi at 9.55 pm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shatabdi-to-resume-services-from-february-8-208179
