06-02-2021||Chandigarh||PGIMER Director, wife gets COVID-19 vaccine||Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) Director Jagat Ram and his wife Asha Kumari on Saturday got Covishield, the vaccine of COVID-19, here.After the vaccination, Jagat Ram said that he and his wife felt absolutely fine and had no adverse reaction even after four hours of receiving the vaccine jab.Sharing about the mild infection associated with the vaccine, Jagat Ram said the mild reaction after vaccination was a good sign because the immune system of the body was reacting to the vaccine and creating antibodies.He said mild fever, body ache or joint pains could occur for a day or two, which will subside automatically, and people are free to contact the medical experts.His wife urged others to have faith in medical science and join the drive as she came out of the vaccination room after getting the shot. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgimer-director-wife-gets-covid-19-vaccine-208810
06-02-2021||---||Farmers block Chandigarh-Zirakpur, Panchkula-Zirakpur border points||Zirakpur, February 6Several light points on Saturday were blocked by protesters in Zirakpur during the ‘Chakka Jam’ announced by farmers.Farmers’ union on Friday had announced a ‘Chakka Jam’ to protest against the Internet ban on Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders.The Chandigarh-Zirakpur border and the Panchkula-Zirakpur border have been blocked. Traffic has come to a complete halt on both sides of the highways.Meanwhile, in Mohali, main light points and T-points have been blocked by protesters.Protesters have parked personal vehicles in the middle of the roads.DSP (Traffic) Guriqbal Singh said: “We are trying to divert the traffic and managing U-turns. The situation is peaceful. No untoward incident reported till now.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farmers-block-chandigarh-zirakpur-panchkula-zirakpur-border-points-208740
06-02-2021||---||3 masked men rob jeweller’s house at gunpoint in Baddi||Solan, February 6Cash and valuables worth lakhs were looted from a house of a Baddi-based jeweller by three motorcycle-borne youth allegedly at gunpoint when his mother was alone at home last night.Three motorcycle-borne youth entered Rajesh Aggarwal's house located at Phase-1 housing board colony at Baddi while he had gone to Chandigarh with his family last evening.According to the jeweller's mother Rani Devi, the youth had covered their faces with a white hankerchief and they initially enquired about his son.The trio then brandished a revolver and took away cash and jewellary from the house, including the jewellary worn by the woman. They also took away a suitcase belonging to the jeweler, which contains important documents.A case under Sections 382 and 34 of the IPC has been registered by the police and search was on to trace the miscreants.The jewellers of the area have decided to assemble at Baddi and meet SP Baddi to press for immediate arrest of the miscreants.They said that since such incidents can happen with anyone, it was pertinent to ensure that the miscreants were arrested soon.Superintendent of Police, Baddi, Rohit Malpani, said the probe was underway and it was being ascertained if a gun was used to rob the woman as has been alleged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-masked-men-rob-jewellers-house-at-gunpoint-in-baddi-208720
06-02-2021||Mohali||Man stabs wife to death at Kharar, killed in car crash||A Kharar resident died in a car crash after stabbing his 32-year-old wife to death in the wee hours of today, the police said.The blood-soaked body of Varsha Chauhan with multiple stab wounds on the head and neck was found locked in a bathroom of a house in Sunny Enclave, Sector 125, this morning. The police recovered a knife and a pair of scissors used in the crime from the spot.Even before the murder of his wife could come to light, Waris Qamruddin (34), while fleeing, rammed his speeding car into a truck at the Toggan light point near Dhanas, barely 11 km away. Around 3.45 am, the police rushed him to GMSH, Sector 16, where doctors declared him dead during treatment.Blood-splattered floorThe murder of Varsha, however, came to light later in the morning (8.30 am) when the Kharar police got a call from the house owner of the couple stating that blood was splattered on the floor of the house. The police rushed to the spot and took the body in their possession and sent it to the mortuary of the Civil Hospital, Kharar. The police said neighbours told them that there was a marital dispute between the couple and they were frequently involved in heated exchange of words. On Thursday night too, there was a heated exchange of words between the two before Qamruddin silenced her to death.Lost job during pandemicHailing from Bhopal, the couple had solemnised a love marriage three years ago. Before moving into a rented accommodation here a month ago, Qamruddin was employed in Noida, but lost his job during the Covid-19 pandemic. The couple, in financial distress, was planning to move abroad and had booked their tickets for February 16.Murder case registeredKharar City SHO Daljit Singh Gill said, “On a statement of the owner of the house, a case of murder has been registered against Waris Qamruddin.” SP (Rural) Ravjot Grewal said, “The exact cause of Varsha’s death would be known only after the post-mortem. A forensic team has collected the weapons used in the crime and the investigation is on.” The police said information regarding the death of Qamruddin had already been given to his brother and mother on the telephone. The post-mortem of the deceased will be conducted after his legal heirs arrive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-stabs-wife-to-death-at-kharar-killed-in-car-crash-208431
06-02-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC clears Budget with Rs 670-cr deficit||The Chandigarh Municipal Corporation today cleared a Rs670-crore deficit Budget for the fiscal 2021-22 in its usual anticipation of getting grant-in-aid (GIA) as per the Fourth Delhi Finance Commission recommendations, just like previous years.In a special Budget meeting, the MC House cleared a Rs1,641-crore total Budget — Rs1,197.55 crore under revenue head and Rs443.45 crore under capital head. However, the MC’s own earning will be Rs469.78 crore and it has got only Rs502 crore GIA in the recently announced Union Budget. Thus, it will fall short of Rs 670 crore to meet its expenditure in the next financial year.“Why the Budget is slashed every year? What we get is peanuts as compared to our expenditure. Give us a surety that the deficit amount will be given to us,” Congress councillor Gurbax Rawat asked Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma during the House meeting. The Mayor, who is from the ruling BJP, assured the House that this year they would get funds from the Centre and no work would be left pending. “There will be no new taxes in this fiscal,” he said in his address. Last year also, the MC had approved a Rs650-crore deficit Budget. It had sought Rs1,074 crore GIA, but had got only Rs425 crore from the UT Administration. In 2019, the MC had written to the Administration to grant it funds as per the latest recommendations of the Finance Commission.UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore had then written to the Centre in this regard. Till date, the MC has not got its entire share. The commission had recommended an increase in the MC’s share in the UT revenue from 17.5 per cent to 30 per cent.Though its GIA increased from Rs375 crore in the 2019-20 financial year to Rs425 crore in the fiscal 2020-21 and now to Rs502 crore, it’s not enough to fill its empty coffers. If the corporation does not get funds, works like ward development, sewerage and other infrastructural jobs will be hit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-clears-budget-with-rs-670-cr-deficit-208434
06-02-2021||Panchkula||Going on trip? Keep your pet at dog pound in Panchkula||A dog care and rehabilitation centre was inaugurated by Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta at Sukhdarshanpur village here today.The facility, which is North India’s first and the country’s third of its kind, is built at a cost of Rs4.07 crore on 4.5 acres. It is being touted as ‘historic’ with respect to dealing with the growing menace of stray dogs in the city. The dog pound, which is equipped with all modern facilities, has a capacity to accommodate 1,000 canines. MC workers will bring sick, injured and stray dogs to the centre.The dog pound has 36 cages in separate blocks, a washing spa, an OPD, a veterinary doctor room, an operation theatre, a pharmacy, a diagnostic lab and a play area. It will have round-the-clock availability of a veterinary doctor, supervisors, food and medicines for canines.A separate hostel with a capacity to accommodate 250 pet dogs has also come up at the facility. People going on trips can now leave their dogs at the centre. A nominal fee will be charged for the service.At the time of the inauguration, Gupta said during the Municipal Corporation election, the BJP had promised to make Panchkula free from stray cattle and dogs within three months. “We did it in just one month,” he said.MC officials have been told to start a drive to catch stray dogs and leave them at the centre. Recently, the MC had made it mandatory for dog owners to register their pets within one month.Speaking to Chandigarh Tribune over the phone, Gupta said the Panchkula MC would also rope in an NGO to hold a sterilisation drive after catching stray dogs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/going-on-trip-keep-your-pet-at-dog-pound-in-panchkula-208438
06-02-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Chandigarh reports 24 cases, 1 death||One fatality, 23 cases in MohaliMohali: One more fatality was witnessed due to Covid-19 during the past 24 hours, taking the death toll in the district to 370. Meanwhile, 23 fresh cases surfaced in the district, while 43 more patients recovered from the virus. Among the new cases, 19 were reported from Mohali (urban) and two each from Gharuan and Kurali. The district has seen 19,574 cases so far, while 18,738 patients have been cured. — TNS18 more infected in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Friday reported 18 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the overall tally to 10,585. The Covid toll remained at 147. While 10,343 patients have recovered from the disease so far, 95 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 97.71 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-chandigarh-reports-24-cases-1-death-208439
06-02-2021||Chandigarh||Parliamentary panel for hike in allocation to Chandigarh||In its report tabled in the Lok Sabha, the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Home Affairs has recommended an increase in allocation of funds to the UT Administration to improve infrastructure in 13 villages.The committee had recommended to the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) to take up the matter of increasing the allocation to the UT with the Ministry of Finance at the Revised Estimate (RE) stage for proper infrastructure development of 13 villages.In the action taken report, the MHA has stated that there are 22 villages under the jurisdiction of the Municipal Corporation (MC), of which 13 villages had been transferred to the civic body in 2019.“The infrastructure for the services like drinking water supply, sewerage system and stormwater drainage system was built in these villages about 15-20 years ago. As these villages are in the vicinity of Chandigarh, their population has increased enormously, due to which the capacity of the infrastructure has become inadequate,” states the MHA.It is observed that the sewer lines laid there are undersized to carry the sewage load, due to which sewage overflows and thus damages streets/roads. The blockage in sewer lines also leads to contaminated water supply. The drinking water supply needs augmentation to bring its level on a par with the urban norms.The committee had observed that the UT Administration had been allocated Rs5,138.10 crore in the Budget estimates of 2020-21 which was Rs520.13 crore less than the projected amount of Rs 5,658.23 crore.The committee observed that the significant shortfall would adversely affect the development of the 13 villages transferred to the MC. The committee, therefore, strongly recommended that the shortfall in budgetary allocation must be favourably looked into at the Revised Estimates stage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/parliamentary-panel-for-hike-in-allocation-to-chandigarh-208441
06-02-2021||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib||Election observer meets representatives of parties||Election observer for the Municipal Council (MC) elections Vimmi Bhullar along with Deputy Commissioner-cum-District Electoral Officer Amrit Kaur Gill held a meeting with representatives of various political parties and directed them to ensure adherence to the code of conduct. “If anyone has any grievance regarding the election, he/she can contact her on her mobile No. 90410-37171. Besides, complaints can also be lodged at the email ID vimmibhullar@yahoo.co.in,” said Vimmi.Amrit Kaur assured representatives of political parties that elections would be held in a free and fair manner and action would be taken against those violating the code of conduct.Any kind of rigging or malpractice in elections would not be tolerated and strict action would be initiated against violators, she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/election-observer-meets-representatives-of-parties-208443
06-02-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University Chandigarh exams to start on February 15||In all, 2,86,812 candidates (under garduate/postgradute) shall be appearing for odd semester examinations commencing from February 15 at Panjab University.“The exmination will be held in online mode,” said Dr Jagat Bhushan, Controller of Examination, Panjab University.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-chandigarh-exams-to-start-on-february-15-208444
06-02-2021||---||Lawyers protest in support of farmers in Chandigarh||A group of lawyers today staged a dharna at the District Courts here in support of the demands of the farmers.Advocate Mandeep Singh said the lawyers were with the farmers for their pro-people cause. Ravinder Singh said lawyers from the tricity were going to organise a march on February 11 in solidarity with farmers and to demand the repealing of three farms laws. Their dharna will continue till the farm laws are repealed.Advocate Vipin stated that they were going to join farmers’ agitation at Singhu border on Sunday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lawyers-protest-in-support-of-farmers-in-chandigarh-208445
06-02-2021||Chandigarh||Country’s first blade runner motivates NCC air squadron||A Kargil war veteran and India’s first blade runner, Major DP Singh, today interacted with cadets of the Chandigarh NCC air squadron and motivated them to set high ideals in life and strive for excellence, at the squadron’s annual training camp.The officer had lost his right leg due to enemy fire in the Akhnoor Sector. He gradually started running using a prosthetic limb and has run in 26 half marathons, including several in high altitude.As many as 33 cadets, including 13 girls, from city colleges are attending the camp being conducted here.Inaugurating the camp, Col Amitesh Verma, Deputy Commander, Chandigarh NCC Group, exhorted the cadets to excel in all fields, enjoy the training activities and develop camaraderie and friendship among themselves.The camp commandant, Group Capt MR Pandeya, said the camp aimed at imparting quality training to the cadets in flying, drill, weapon training and aero-modelling, besides conducting sessions on personality development, national integration, road safety, fire safety and health and hygiene.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/countrys-first-blade-runner-motivates-ncc-air-squadron-208446
06-02-2021||Ramkrishan UpadhyayTribune Nnews ServiceChandigarh||Woman to face trial on charge of killing husband||The Court of Gitanjali Goel, Judicial Magistrate, First Class, has committed a case related to the death of Gurdev Singh, a resident of Sector 41-C, to the Sessions Court for trial. Gurdev Singh was found dead under mysterious circumstances on the stairs of his house on July 14 last year.Harpreet Kaur, wife of the deceased, was arrested four days after the incident under Section 302 of the IPC.Initially, it appeared to be a case of death due to overdose of drug but the police started investigation after neighbours and relatives noticed strangulation marks on the neck. Bahadur Singh, who is the victim’s neighbour and president of the RWA, Sector 41-C, had stated that on the day of the incident, Harpreet had told him that her husband was lying unconscious.While Bahadur and relatives were preparing for Gurdev’s last rites, they noticed marks on the victim’s neck following which the police were informed. The police claimed that in the autopsy report, the doctors mentioned that in their opinion, the cause of death was asphyxia due to manual strangulation.The Sector 39 police claimed that when they grilled the victim’s wife, she revealed that she had a fight with her husband on the stairs following which she strangled him.After hearing arguments, the Judge said the offence punishable under Section 302 of the IPC is exclusively triable by the Court of Sessions. The Court directed that Harpreet is to be produced before the Court of Sessions Judge, Chandigarh, on February 18 for trial.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-to-face-trial-on-charge-of-killing-husband-208448
06-02-2021||Chandigarh||We stand with farmers, Greta: Young protesters||Young guns of ‘generation Z’ today gathered at Matka Chowk here to support farmers and Greta Thunberg, a Swedish environmental activist known for challenging world leaders to take immediate action against climate change. Moved by her tweets and the plight of farmers protesting against the new agricultural laws, the children expressed concern over food security and the future of India.Udaybir Singh (12) said: “I support Greta for standing up for the farmers. I read her tweet and was deeply moved by her concern for the country.”Nine-year-old Harveer Pratap Singh stood at the chowk, shouting slogans of ‘Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan’. He said: “I am here to support the farmers who are rightfully asking for the black laws to be repealed. The government is calling us terrorists, but we are farmers. Farmers are not terrorists.”Jiya, a 15-year-old city student, backed Greta’s tweet ‘I still stand with farmers’, and said: “I like that Greta’s speaking about the farmers plight and she’s right in supporting the farmers. The government should at least address the issue.”Zorawar Singh (12) shared: “My father’s in the Army and my family has been farming for generations. The farmers are not anti-nationals. They are fighting for their rights. I am here to support them, just like Greta did.”Anvi Gupta (12) said: “I saw the news yesterday about Greta and I don’t like what the government is doing. They are hurting farmers for no apparent reason and are supporting private companies. I don’t think the future of this country is secure.”Protests at Sector 20, Marriot ChowkPeople protested at the Sector 20 roundabout and the Marriot Chowk. Parneet Kaur, a teacher, said: “I’m here because these farm laws are not just anti-farmer, but anti-consumer too.” At the Sector 35 roundabout, the protesters from Dhanas distributed badges and flags of the Bhartiya Kisan Union to supporters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/we-stand-with-farmers-greta-young-protesters-208455
06-02-2021||Mohali||MC poll: Mohali’s Ward No. 18 sets an example||Ward No. 18 of the Mohali Municipal Corporation is a fine example of women empowerment as three of the four candidates of main parties - the BJP, the SAD, the Azad Group and the Congress - in the fray for the MC elections are female.Though the ward has been denotified as general, the SAD, the BJP and the Azad Group have preferred to field well-educated women candidates, while the Congress has fielded a male candidate.Three women candidates - Tanmeet Kaur Sahiwal of the SAD, Opinder Preet Kaur Gill of the Azad Group and Chhavi Sharma of the BJP - will contest the elections against the ruling party candidate Kulwant Singh Kler.Tanmeet has done PhD (Law), LLM and BA LLB (Hons). At present, she is posted as an Assistant Professor at the UILS, Panjab University. BJP candidate Chhavi has done MCom from a college affiliated to GNDU, Jalandhar. She is a former anchor of a Punjabi TV channel and presently doing her own business as an immigration consultant. Azad Group candidate and sitting councillor Opinder has done BCom from Panjab University and MBA from Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania, USA.Tanmeet said it was good that women were coming forward in politics. She decided to break the perception that women couldn’t enter politics. She said basic development of the ward would be her top priority as there were no footpaths and no parking space here. If elected, she also planned to construct a reading room for children. She has also decided not to take salary given to councillors and would spend it on the development works in her ward.Chhavi said she would make it a point that people of her ward would not have to make rounds of the MC to get their works done. Cleanliness, proper street lights, beautification of parks, proper roads and maintenance of these from time to time would be her priorities. She said it was good that educated women were now coming forward to contest the elections.Opinder said her main slogan for the electorate was not to vote for the party but to choose the ‘beti’. Talking about her priorities, she said overall development, including maintenance of roads and street lights, and welfare of citizens would be her main agenda. Her other priority would be on preventive healthcare by promoting healthy lifestyle, setting up playgrounds for children.Congress candidate Kulwant has done MSc (Agriculture) and is president of the Residents Welfare Association (East) in Phase 11. He had unsuccessfully contested the elections as a councillor in 2006. He is also the member of an NGO, “Sarbat Da Bhala”.Kulwant said his priority would be overall development of the ward. There was the issue of vendors near HIG flats. He would try to relocate these vendors. He would also try to get paver blocks fixed on streets in Commando society. Blockage of sewer lines and stormwater drains and re-carpeting of roads were some of the issues and he would try to solve these problems.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-poll-mohalis-ward-no-18-sets-an-example-208471
06-02-2021||Mohali||901 in fray for corporation, council elections||After the withdrawal of 555 nominations, 901 candidates are left in the fray for elections to the Mohali Municipal Corporation and seven municipal councils.In Mohali, a total of 146 candidates have withdrawn their candidature for the Municipal Corporation elections. Now, there are 260 candidates, including 110 women, in the fray.2.36 lakh votersThere are 2.36 lakh voters. Out of them, around 25,000 belong to the Scheduled Caste (SC) category. Seven seats have been reserved for SC and Backward Class candidates. There are 43 general category seats. Of these, 23 are reserved for women and 20 for men.Women candidates from various parties will be contesting on all 50 wards of the Municipal Corporation. The elections are scheduled for Mohali Municipal Corporation and seven municipal councils of the district.After the withdrawal of covering candidates, returning officers also gave symbols to independent candidates.116 independent candidatesThe Congress is contesting on all 50 seats, the BJP on 46 seats, the SAD on 43 seats and the BSP on four seats. As many as 116 Independent candidates are contesting the elections.The Congress is contesting on all 50 seats, the BJP on 46 seats, the SAD on 43 seats and the BSP on four seats. As many as 116 Independent candidates are contesting the elections.As many as 149 candidates are contesting the elections in Kharar, 125 in Zirakpur, 64 in Kurali, 76 in Lalru, 78 in Dera Bassi, 40 in Banur and 109 in Nayagaon.There are 2.36 lakh voters. Out of them, around 25,000 belong to the Scheduled Caste (SC) category. Seven seats have been reserved for SC and Backward Class candidates. There are 43 general category seats. Of these, 23 are reserved for women and 20 for men.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/901-in-fray-for-corporation-council-elections-208488
06-02-2021||Mohali||AAP begins campaign in Kharar||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday launched a campaign in front of Kharar bus stand for the MC elections.Parminder Singh Goldy said all AAP volunteers had started the election campaign by sweeping roads and streets.Volunteers Sweep roads, streetsParminder Singh Goldy said all AAP volunteers had started the election campaign by sweeping roads and streets. Goldy said the same way, the AAP would also clean the filth of corruption in the municipal corporations and councils.Goldy said the same way, the Aam Aadmi Party would also clean the filth of corruption in the municipal corporations and councils.He said sanitation in cities was deteriorating day by day and there was no closed-circuit television (CCTV) camera system in the city to curb crime.Prabhjot Kaur said the traditional parties had always disappointed the people of Mohali.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aap-begins-campaign-in-kharar-208489
06-02-2021||Chandigarh||Court: Receive, act upon contestant’s nomination||Even as the State of Punjab claimed a complete bar on entertainment of petition by a High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution after the initiation of election process, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today intervened before directing the election authorities to receive and act upon nomination filed by a contestant for the Mohali municipal corporation polls.The direction by the Bench of Justice Sanjay Kumar and Justice Archana Puri came on a petition filed against the State of Punjab and other respondents by Sahibee Anand through senior advocate Chetan Mittal and lawyers Mayank Aggarwal and Deepak Sabherwal.As the case came up for hearing, the Bench was told that the nomination filed by the petitioner for contesting the election to the municipal councillor’s post in the Mohali municipal corporation from ward number 12 was rejected on the sole ground that the proposer’s signature was missing.Mittal contended the proposer was present while submitting the nomination and at the time of scrutiny. But he was not given an opportunity to affix his signature. Punjab Additional Advocate-General SPS Tinna, on the other hand, contended that there was a complete bar in view of Article 243 ZG of the Constitution.The Bench asserted it was inclined to entertain the writ petition subject to further scrutiny in the light of the law laid down by the Supreme Court in “Nandiesha Reddy versus Kavitha Mahesh’ and ‘Election Commission of India through Secretary versus Ashok Kumar and Another’“There shall accordingly be an interim direction to the respondent-election authorities to receive and act upon the nomination filed by the petitioner, subject to the proposer affixing his signature therein before 5:30 pm today. It is made clear that the election process has not been stayed and the receipt of the petitioner’s nomination would be subject to further orders in this writ petition,” the Bench concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/court-receive-act-upon-contestants-nomination-208490
06-02-2021||Mohali||BJP, SAD two sides of the same coin: Balbir Singh Sidhu||The BJP and the SAD are two sides of the same coin. So, it’s useless to expect anything from them as far as the welfare of common man is concerned. Thus, it is necessary to teach them a lesson for their anti-people policies by defeating their candidates and also of the Azad Group and the AAP with a huge margin in the Mohali MC elections.This was stated by Punjab Health Minister and local sitting Congress MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu during the inauguration of an election office of Ward No. 26 candidate Jagdish Singh at Kumbhra village here on Thursday.Balbir Sidhu said the Kumbhra area had witnessed all-around development after the Congress formed its government in the state. The medical college in Mohali had been set up with the efforts of Ambika Soni. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjp-sad-two-sides-of-the-same-coin-balbir-singh-sidhu-208495
06-02-2021||Zirakpur||Dera Bassi MLA seeks votes for SAD candidates||Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma today visited various wards of Lalru to begin the Shiromani Akali Dal’s election campaign. His wife Babita Sharma and brother Parminder Sharma also went door-to-door seeking votes.People welcomed NK Sharma and assured him that they would work day and night to ensure their victory. Thanking the people, the MLA said he and his team were always there for them.NK Sharma said he had developed every ward of the city without any discrimination. There are street drains, sewerage, roads, street lights, hospitals, hospices, stadiums and electricity in every village and town. At the same time, public welfare schemes of the government were implemented without any discrimination.Lohgarh remains hot seatAt his home turf in Lohgarh (Ward No. 18), SAD candidate Dharminder Sharma, younger brother of NK Sharma, is contesting against Congress candidate Avtar Singh and 30-year-old Kunal Arora of the BJP.Arora said: “The campaigning has picked up pace in the past few days and we are aiming at covering the maximum electorate.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dera-bassi-mla-seeks-votes-for-sad-candidates-208510
06-02-2021||Chandigarh||Councillors want housing scheme for self, spark row||Councillors of the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation have proposed to launch a self-financing housing scheme for themselves, MC officials and employees.The issue was raised by councillor Shakti Prakash Devshali during the special Budget meeting here today. He said: “We have asked the officials to keep a token money of Rs3 crore in the Budget for 2021-22.”Though the Congress did not oppose the move in the House, opposition leader and Congress councillor Devinder Singh Babla, who was not present in the meeting today, said: “It can be done for employees, but not for councillors and officials.”“This project is not required. The Municipal Corporation has failed to auction properties, but is now going to build flats for itself. People will laugh at it,” he said.Shakti Prakash Devshali said, “When MLAs of the neighbouring states can get houses built in Chandigarh, then why not local representatives?”The BJP councillor also proposed setting up of a smart school for Economically Weaker Section (EWS) students. Officials have been asked to keep Rs2 crore token money for the same.Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma said: “We have enough land in Mani Majra for these two projects. Though it is MC land, allottees will pay forland and cost of the flat too. Provisions will be made in the current Budget for it. We will also have flats for Economically Weaker Section in the society.”Besides, a sum of Rs85 lakh will be spent on maintenance of two dispensaries in southern sectors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/councillors-want-housing-scheme-for-self-spark-row-208511
06-02-2021||Panchkula||Traffic advisory for ‘chakka jam’ in Panchkula||The police today issued a traffic advisory against taking the Panchkula-Yamunangar (NH-73) and the Panchkula-Shimla routes in view of the call of ‘chakka jam’ by farm unions at the Chandi Mandir and Barwala toll plazas on Saturday.The alternative routes suggested for the Panchkula-Yamunanagar (NH-73) highway are: Mouli-Raipur Rani Trilokpur Chowk-via Toka village to Panchkula road; and Mouli-Barwala-Dera Bassi-Panchkula-Shimla highway. Road users can also take the Chandigarh-Siswan-Baddi road route. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/traffic-advisory-for-chakka-jam-in-panchkula-208513
06-02-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Adviser lays stone of sewage treatment plant||UT Adviser Manoj Parida today laid the foundation stone for the construction of a 2 MLD sewage treatment plant (STP) using MBR technology.In order to treat the sewage generated by residents of Kishangarh village and to use the treated water for the irrigation purpose of the lake area, Golf Course, nearby IT Park area and to meet the water required for topping up the lake in future, the project was undertaken at a cost of Rs19.9 crore.The installation of the STP will also comply with the directions of the National Green Tribunal. The parameters for the sewage treatment plant were fixed keeping in view the requirement for topping up the lake, if required, duly vetted by the Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC).The system is proposed to be run through full automatic SCADA system where the quantity and the quality of the water at inlet and outlet will be continuously monitored, which will further be checked by the Engineering Department and the CPCC on a real-time basis. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-adviser-lays-stone-of-sewage-treatment-plant-208514
06-02-2021||Chandigarh||Snag hits registration of vehicles||A technical snag has hit the registration of new vehicles in the city.Rajesh Kumar, a resident of Sector 19, said due to a snag in the server, he could not purchase a new car, as the dealer could not receive the registration number from the Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA) for the past two days.However, a senior official at the RLA said theserver, managed by the National Informatics Centre (NIC), developed some technical snag in the afternoon and immediately engineers were called to rectify the fault.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/snag-hits-registration-of-vehicles-208515
06-02-2021||Mohali||Top health, police officials among 133 vaccinated||Hussan Lal, Principal Secretary, Health, and DK Tewari, Principal Secretary, Medical Education and Research, were among those who received a Covid vaccine at the Civil Hospital here today.The hospital today remained the centre of high-profile activity with senior bureaucrats and vigilance officers coming for vaccination. As many as 133 frontline workers, including ADGP (Law and Order) Ishwar Singh, IG Lakshmee Kant Yadav, IG Vibhu Raj, SP Ashish Kapoor and SP HS Bhullar were among those who received the jab today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/top-health-police-officials-among-133-vaccinated-208516
06-02-2021||Panchkula||166 frontline workers get jab in Panchkula||Of the 412 targeted beneficiaries, as many as 114 healthcare workers and 166 frontline workers were immunised on Friday, registering an overall coverage of 67.96 per cent.The sites where the vaccination drive was held were the Civil Hospital in Sector 6, the office of the Directorate of Medical Education and Research in Sector 16, the Primary Health Centre (PHC) at Surajpur, the PHC at Kot, the Primary Health Centre at Pinjore and the state police headquarters in Sector 6.Only a minor adverse event following immunization (AEFI) was reported today.So far, 3,790 healthcare workers and 216 frontline workers have received the vaccine in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/166-frontline-workers-get-jab-in-panchkula-208518
06-02-2021||Chandigarh||Three held for burglaries in Chandigarh||Drug peddler in UT police netChandigarh: The crime branch of the UT police nabbed a drug peddler while carrying 6.5-kg charas. A team, led by SI Neeraj Kumar, apprehended Mohan Lal (34), a native of Kullu district, from the Industrial Area, Phase I, on February 4. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered against the suspect at the Industrial Area police station. The suspect was produced before a court, which sent him to four-day police remand. The police said they would ascertain the source of drugs and the name of the person to whom it was meant to be sold. TNS3 held for robbing mobile phonesChandigarh: Three persons, including two juveniles, have been apprehended by the UT police for robbing mobile phones. The police said the suspects had robbed mobile phones in December 2019 and March 2020 from the Sarangpur police station area. Dimpi (20), a resident of EWS Colony, Dhanas, and two juveniles have been apprehended and the mobile phones have been recovered. TNSYouth nabbed for 2-wheeler theftsChandigarh: The UT police have arrested a 19-year-old youth for snatching and two-wheeler thefts in the city. A team, led by Inspector Rajiv Kumar, SHO of the Sector 34 police station, nabbed the suspect, identified as Pardeep Kumar, a resident of EWS Colony, Dhanas. The police said a total of five cases had been solved with the recovery of two snatched mobile phones and three stolen two-wheelers. TNSSec 23 youth held under NDPS ActChandigarh: The UT police arrested a 22-year-old youth while possessing heroin and banned vials. According to the police, a team of the Sector 17 police station laid a naka near the Sector 23/24 light point. The suspect, identified as Kashish, a resident of Sector 23, was nabbed while possessing five grams of heroin and 24 banned vials. The police said a case under the NDPS Act had been registered. TNSHP man caught with heroinPanchkula: A Himachal Pradesh (HP) resident was arrested with 10 grams of heroin. He was produced before a local court on Friday, which sent him to one-day police remand. The suspect, identified as Manoj Kumar, alias Monu (28), was arrested from Kalka when he turned around and started taking long strides on seeing a police team near a cremation ground on the Rambagh road on Thursday. The police nabbed him after a brief chase. According to the police, the suspect tried to throw away the narcotic substance, but they grabbed hold of his arm and recovered the drug kept in a transparent packet. A case was registered under Sections 21, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act at the Kalka police station. TNSWarrant against 2 in bribery caseChandigarh: Special Judge, CBI Court, Chandigarh, Sushil Kumar Garg has issued bailable warrants against two accused in the bribery case in which a former SHO of the Chandigarh Police, Jaswnider Kaur, is also accused. The Court issued summons to accused Sarabjit Singh, Randhir Singh and Narpinder Singh at last hearings of the case. Sarabjit surrendered in the court today and filed a separate regular bail application. The court said in order to expedite the process, bailable warrants had been issued against Randhir and Narpinder for February 10. Jaswinder Kaur, former Mani Majra SHO, Chandigarh, was booked by the CBI for allegedly demanding Rs 5-lakh bribe from a Mani Majra resident, Gurdeep Singh, in lieu of not registering a cheating case against him. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-held-for-burglaries-in-chandigarh-208519
