07-02-2021||Chandigarh||19 new Covid cases in Chandigarh||Chandigarh on Sunday reported 19 new coronavirus cases, taking the infection count to 21,107, according to a medical bulletin.The death of a 56-year-old man took the toll to 340, it said.There are 169 active cases as of now, as per the bulletin.A total of 33 patients were discharged after recovery, taking the number of those recovered to 20,598, it said.A total of 2,25,242 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 2,03,192 tested negative while reports of 62 samples were awaited, the bulletin said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/19-new-covid-cases-in-chandigarh-209221
07-02-2021||Chandigarh||PGI Director, wife get vaccinated||PGI Director Prof Jagat Ram, along with his wife Asha Kumari, took the Covid vaccine at the premier health institute here today.Prof Jagat Ram and his wife were administered Covishield at a vaccination centre at Advanced Paediatric Centre in the presence of Prof SS Pandav, chairman, Covid-19 vaccination committee, PGI, and Dr Mahesh Devnani, Joint Medical Superintendent, Department of Hospital Administration, PGI.Sharing his experience four hours after being vaccinated, Prof Jagat Ram said he and his wife were feeling absolutely fine and both of them had no adverse reaction after receiving the jab.The PGI Director emphasised that there were absolutely no issues associated with the safety of the vaccine. He said the vaccine would have a protective effect against this dreaded disease.About a mild infection associated with the vaccine, Prof Jagat Ram said, “Mild reaction after vaccination is a good sign because the immune system of the body is reacting to the vaccine and creating antibodies.” He added that mild fever, body ache or joint pains could occur for a day or two, which would subside automatically.Prof Pandav said, “The vaccination drive at the PGI is running smoothly and the response is consistently getting better. Since January 16, we have inoculated around 2,500 healthcare workers comprising doctors, nursing officers, technicians and hospital and sanitation attendants and others. It means that the response rate to the vaccination programme at the PGI is about 60 per cent, which is reasonable.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-director-wife-get-vaccinated-208983
07-02-2021||Chandigarh||One death, 28 new cases in Chandigarh||Two fatalities in Mohali distMohali: Two fatalities were witnessed due to Covid-19 during the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 372 in the district. Meanwhile, 25 fresh cases have been reported till Saturday evening while 37 more patients have been cured of the disease. Among the fresh cases, 22 came from Mohali (urban) and one each from Dera Bassi, Dhakoli and Gharuan. So far, the district has reported 19,599 cases and 18,775 recoveries. There are 452 active cases. — TNSNo death, 11 more infected in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Saturday reported 11 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the overall tally to 10,596. The toll remained 147. While 10,347 patients have recovered from the disease so far, 102 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 97.65 per cent. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-death-28-new-cases-in-chandigarh-208984
07-02-2021||Chandigarh||28 dog-bite cases a day worry Chandigarh residents||Around 28 dog-bite cases per day on an average were reported in the city in 2020. According to the data procured from the UT Health Department, 10,558 persons were bitten by dogs in the city last year.Though the number of cases has come down a bit compared to the past few years, there is no respite from stray dog menace. Packs of stray dogs are a common sight at parks and streets.Suggestions not consideredThe civic body had spent Rs10 lakh on organising a one-day national conference on prevention of rabies and stray dog management in September 2019. However, many suggestions made by participants were not considered. Dr Charan Kamal Singh from Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Ludhiana, had recommended sterilising only female dogs as well as changing dog-catching technique.In 2019, 14,536 dog-bite cases were reported. In 2018, the number came down to 12,940, and in 2017, further dropped to 12,092.A three-year-old child and an 80-year-old man, who were bitten by a stray dog in Sector 15, are among the recent victims of the menace. “Cases of stray dog bite are very common in our area. Packs of dogs keep following people and vehicles,” said Ankita Garg, a resident of Sector 15.Hitesh Puri, chairman, Chandigarh Residents’ Association Welfare Federation, said: “We have been getting complaints of stray dog menace from various RWAs. The number of stray dogs continues to rise.” He added: “We do not trust the figures of the MC. It is not possible that they had sterilised so many dogs and their number is still growing. The MC should involve the RWAs concerned in sterilisation drives. They will be able to guide the MC teams better about the presence of canines in their respective areas.”City AAP convener Prem Garg said: “Dogs get aggressive when they are thirsty or hungry. I would suggest people should leave something to eat and a bowl of water for canines outside their society areas. There are many strays in our area, but there has never been a dog-bite case here.”The corporation claimed to have sterilised 16,300 dogs since 2015. The UT Animal Husbandry Department’s 2018 census found 12,920 stray canines in the city.The MC Medical Officer of Health, Dr Amrit Warring, said: “Our sterilisation drive is going on effectively, otherwise the number would have been quite higher than the present figures. Since it takes time to break the existing cycle, results will come gradually.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/28-dog-bite-cases-a-day-worry-chandigarh-residents-208998
07-02-2021||Chandigarh||Excise notices to 2 clubs in Chandigarh||The UT Excise and Taxation Department has issued show-cause notices to BoomBox Café and Pipe & Barrel in Sector 9 for violating the norms.During checking at BoomBox Café, a team of the department found three bottles of liquor without hologram. Besides, three bottles were found to have been obtained without any permit, said Rajesh Kumar Popli, Additional Commissioner, Excise and Taxation, UT. Popli said six bottles of different brands of liquor were found without hologram at Pipe & Barrel.The notices were issued for breach of terms and conditions of licence by the office of the Collector (Excise) for February 11. The operators of the restaurants have been asked to give a written submission, if any, as to why their licences may not be cancelled or suspended.The BoomBox Café was also found serving hookah to customers. The authorities have ordered the sealing of the café for violating the ban on serving of hookah in the city. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/excise-notices-to-2-clubs-in-chandigarh-208999
07-02-2021||Mohali||Kharar couple’s autopsy delayed||The post-mortem of the Kharar couple could not be performed on Saturday as the legal heirs of both, Varsha Chauhan (32) and her husband Waris Qamruddin (34), could not arrive here on time.Waris died in a car crash after allegedly stabbing his 32-year-old wife to death in the wee hours of Friday.Kharar (City) SHO Daljit Singh Gill said, “The consent of the couple’s legal heirs is required before conducting the autopsy.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kharar-couples-autopsy-delayed-209000
07-02-2021||Zirakpur||Traffic comes to halt at Zirakpur||From 12 noon to 3 pm the ‘chakka jam’ call given by various farmers’ unions in protest against the three agriculture laws brought the traffic to a complete halt all over Mohali district.All major intersections on highways and lights points were taken over by protesters severing the connectivity for more than three hours. It was an eerie sight with largely empty roads and massive traffic jams at various places on the Chandigarh-Ambala highway.Protesters blocked the road under the Zirakpur flyover, McDonald light point and Singhpura Xhowk in the Zirakpur area. The UT Police put up barricades at the Chandigarh-Zirakpur entry point and fortified it with police personnel to prevent any untoward incident.Around 2 pm, long queue of vehicles stranded in traffic jam running into kilometers were witnessed on the Dera Bassi-Zirakpur road. Commuters were stranded at bus stops. Protesters, waving yellow flags, blocked the highway by parking their tractors and private vehicles on the road. DSP (Traffic) Guriqbal Singh said, “The protesters blocked all major highways and intersections, but situation remained peaceful.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/traffic-comes-to-halt-at-zirakpur-209001
07-02-2021||---||Protesters block roads in Mohali||Mohali, February 6On a nationwide three-hour ‘chakka jam’ call given by farmer organisations, which have been protesting on the Delhi borders, hundreds of farmers today blocked various roads passing through Mohali.Farmers of dozens of villages staged a massive dharna at the T-point on Airport Road. There was complete blockade on the Landran-Banur road, at Banur and the national highway leading to Landran from 12 noon to 3 pm. Similarly, a large number of people from Bhagomajra village staged a protest on Baba Banda Singh Bahadur Marg. The police had a tough time in diverting vehicles to clear traffic jam on main roads. However, protesters gave way to ambulances passing through protest sites.A newly married couple Jasdeep Singh and Amarjit Kaur of Phase 4 joined dharna at Madanpur Chowk after tying the nuptial knot at a gurdwara adjoining Yadvindra Public School in Mohali. They demanded that the Centre should repeal farm laws.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/protesters-block-roads-in-mohali-209002
07-02-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers’ stir gets commuters support||In what can be called as a monumental show of support to Samyukt Kisan Morcha’s call for ‘chakka jam’, farmers blocked almost every highway near Mohali. While protesters parked their tractors, cars, trollies and sat on the crossroads of Sector 77-76, Sector 68-69, near Gurdwara Singh Shaheeda (NH5) and state highway near CGC Landran, blocking the traffic, commuters navigated through internal routes.The Tribune correspondent spoke to both, protesters and travellers.At Landran, about 200 protesters blocked the state highway, drawing the government’s attention to their demands. Harneeta Sandhu, a Mohali-based pastry chef had to walk for 2 km to get to her studio. “I had to prepare something and deliver it today. My studio and home are seperated by the Landran road. So, I parked my car near the ‘chakka jam’ and walked till the studio. If you ask I mind doing that for the farmers, I’ll surely say, it’s the least that I can do.”At Godrej Chowk, protesters, mainly women and children raised slogans of ‘Jai jawan, jai kisan’. A bus to Una had stopped near the ‘chakka jam’. We spoke to passengers. Nikhil, who was heading to Anandpur Sahib from Chandigarh, said, “I don’t mind waiting here as I support our farmers.”Headed to their homwtown Una, Akshit and Anshika said, “We gave our GATE exam today, but we will wait just like farmers are waiting. They have been waiting for months altogether. We can wait for three hours. No problem.”As people took out marches, sang songs of revolution and raised slogans in favour of India, they asked the government to take back the three agriculture laws.Roopinder Singh, at Sector 76-77 crossroads, said, “We are legally, constitutionally and rightfully asserting demands of the farmers. The need for this ‘chakka jam’ wouldn’t have arisen had the government paid attention to farmers’ plight.”Tribute to ‘martyrs’ of farmers’ resistanceMembers and supporters of the Naujawan Kisan Ekta Chandigarh, Pendu Sangharsh Committee and civil society today staged a protest at almost every traffic light and chowk in the tricity area.With Tricolour and Kisan Union flags between 5 pm and 7 pm, protesters lighted candles to pay tribute to those, who died while protesting on the Delhi borders. While maximum number of protesters, ranging between 400 and 500, stood at Matka Chowk with candles and posters of resistance, others flocked around light points and roundabouts in various other sectors in the tricity area.“We are lighting candles in the memory of martyrs of farmers’ resistence,” said Raj Gill at Matka Chowk. Actor Savita Bhatti was spotted at the protest too. “I’m here because this is not a farmer or Punjab issue anymore. It’s a human rights issue and needs to be addressed,” said Savita.At Sector 35 lights Jagmohan Singh, who retired from the Indian Air Force, said, “People, who have served the country as defence personnel have been put behind bars. This is what they get? The government should release all farmers and senior citizens arrested under false allegations to quell dissent.”While Haryana-born, Chandigarh-based Premlata called Modi ‘Hitler’, 17-year-old Pavit hit out at government’s ‘internal matter’ stance on farmer protests going global.“Figure this: a woman’s being beaten and tortured in a house. The inmates say it’s our internal matter. Well, no. It’s not. It’s a global problem. In the same way, human rights’ violation at farmer protest sites is not an internal but a global issue,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farmers-stir-gets-commuters-support-209003
07-02-2021||Panchkula||Toll plazas seized in Panchkula district||Farmers put up road blockades at Chandimandir toll plaza on the Panchkula-Shimla National Highway and Barwala toll plaza on the Panchkula-Yamunanagar National Highway today for three hours between 12 noon and 3 pm in response to the three-hour ‘chakka jam’ call given by farmers’ unions to press for their demand for repealing the three new agricultural laws.The protesters holding banners and placards in their hands raised slogans for the fulfillment of their demands at the toll plazas.The police maintained that the situation remained peaceful and tight security was in place to ensure law and order in the city. However, commuters taking the two routes had to face a lot of inconvenience.While many of them decided to walk on foot to reach across the blockade, some waited until vehicles were allowed to pass after lifting of the blockades.On one side of the road, near the Chandimandir toll plaza, commercial vehicles and trucks were seen lined up on a flyover.Only ambulances and people dealing with emergency services were given a free passage. Those stuck in the traffic jam were told by the police to take a U-turn for taking alternative routes to reach their destinations.On Friday evening, the police had issued a traffic advisory warning people to not take Chandimandir and Barwala routes during ‘chakka jam’ to avoid inconvenience.Bhajan Kaur, a 75-year-old woman protester, said, “We are here to secure a better future for our generations to come. It is our duty to leave the comfort of our houses and come on roads for our rights. Will old age matter when there will be no ‘roti’ in our ‘thali’?”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/toll-plazas-seized-in-panchkula-district-209004
07-02-2021||Chandigarh||Cleanliness drive at Sec 22 Shishu Niketan||The NSS Unit of Shishu Niketan Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 22-D, inaugurated its seven-day winter camp by taking up a cleanliness project in collaboration with the Municipal Corporation. The cleanliness drive was inaugurated by Chandigarh Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma today wherein the entire stretch from school campus to the Sector 22 Gurdwara was cleaned by the NSS volunteers. Amita Khorana, school Principal, along with Sharma, students and residents planted saplings. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cleanliness-drive-at-sec-22-shishu-niketan-209005
07-02-2021||Chandigarh||Bhavan Vidyalaya campus at New Chandigarh||Bhavan Vidyalaya unveiled its forthcoming plan for its branch at New Chandigarh today. This will be its third new campus, which will be fully functional from next year. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bhavan-vidyalaya-campus-at-new-chandigarh-209006
07-02-2021||Chandigarh||NCC training camp||The NCC annual training camps are being conducted by 1 Chandigarh Girls Bn NCC at Moti Ram Arya School, Sector 27. The first batch of the camp comprising of 90 cadets concluded it training today. The camps are running under guidance of the NCC staff. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ncc-training-camp-209007
07-02-2021||Chandigarh||CBI court initiates process to declare two accused POs||Dr Sushil Kumar Garg, Special Judge, CBI court, Chandigarh, has started proceedings to declare two accused as proclaimed offenders (POs) in the alleged fraud with a bank worth over Rs7.29 crore.This comes after the accused failed to appear before the court despite issuing summons and non-bailable warrants (NBWs) against them.The court had earlier issued bailable warrants against Amrinder Singh, director of Arvind Machine Tools Private Limited, Mohali, and Parminder Singh, proprietor of Punjab Steel Scrap Corporation, in the alleged fraud case with Indian Overseas Bank.During the hearing of arguments in the case on Friday, the court observed that summons had been issued against both accused on their last known addresses. Thereafter, bailable warrants were issued against them on December 22, 2020, and January 11, 2021, but they failed to appear in the case.The order says in view of this, the court has reason to believe that the accused are intentionally concealing themselves to appear before the court to face the trial and they cannot be served through non-bailable warrants. In order to expedite the case, the proclamation under Section 82 of the CrPC be issued against the accused returnable for February 11, 2021.The case dates back to 2015 when Indian Overseas Bank filed a complaint with the CBI regarding the alleged fraud. The bank alleged that the accused had taken loans of crores from the bank by creating fake companies. The CBI registered an FIR against eight persons, including four retired officials of Indian Overseas Bank, in the case. The CBI filed a chargesheet in the case against all these accused on September 30, 2019, under Sections 120-B, 467, 468 and 471 of the IPC and Sections 13 (2) and 13 (1) (d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act. It was mentioned by the CBI that Indian Overseas Bank was defrauded by the accused by conspiring together and misrepresenting the facts and the bank was cheated causing wrongful loss.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cbi-court-initiates-process-to-declare-two-accused-pos-209008
07-02-2021||Chandigarh||Olympic Association chief asks general secretary to submit report||In a major embarrassment to the Chandigarh Olympic Association (COA), its president has asked the general secretary to submit a detailed report on allotting affiliation to various associations, which was allegedly given under ‘no-authority’ and without consulting the House.Amarinder Singh Bazaz, president of the COA, has also alleged that Maha Singh, general secretary of the association, had misused his authority. He also issued a warning letter to Singh.The letter readsThe letter states: “Refer to previous letter issued on February 2, wherein it has been asked to hand over the entire record pertaining to affiliation/disaffiliation of new sports associations from 2016-20 till February 4, 2021. To date, you (Maha Singh) have neither submitted the record nor responded. The office of the COA was found closed and even the office secretary was not present on February 3 and 4.....”Bazaz has asked Singh to submit a detailed report or face legal action. Singh has been asked to submit the report before February 7. He has earlier asked to submit his reply on February 4. However, he did not submit any reply.The letter stated: “Refer to previous letter issued on February 2, wherein it has been asked to hand over the entire record pertaining to affiliation/disaffiliation of new sports associations from 2016-20 till February 4, 2021. Till date, you (Maha Singh) have neither submitted the record nor responded. The office of the COA was found closed and even the office secretary was not present on February 3 and 4.....”“...your act of misusing your authority as the general secretary by giving provisional affiliation to new sports associations bypassing all existing rules and regulations of the Indian Olympic Association (IOA) and the COA is illegal. Your act has lowered the image of the COA in the eyes of the IOA.”Bazaz further added: “You have almost on all occasions bypassed my constitutional authority. The latest incident happened when you issued the election notice. The act is illegal as per the National Sports Code - 2011, which has already been adopted and implemented by our predecessors.”“... In view of the illegal acts, I hereby warn you not to indulge yourself in any such illegal/unconstitutional acts in future. Otherwise, necessary action will be taken under the law. Any notice/letter issued without my written prior approval is withdrawn and will be treated as null and void. You are hereby given last opportunity to hand over the entire record till February 7. Otherwise, it will be presumed that the affiliations were given on personal capacity.”Active politics in COAEarlier in January, Bazaz had shot off a letter to rebuff the general secretary’s call for conducting the annual general meeting and elections. The rift in the COA over electing a new House, which had been lying low for the past four years and has not conducted any state championship in the past 13 years, came wide open recently after Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, Punjab Sports Minister, who had remained the COA president for 12 years and is at present life president of the body, said to have agreed to contest for the post of president. General secretary Maha Singh also announced that he would again contest the same post in the Sodhi’s team. Interestingly, Bazaz and Maha Singh remained together for the entire four-year term, before the rift emerged recently as the tenure of the current House come to end.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/olympic-association-chief-asks-general-secretary-to-submit-report-209009
07-02-2021||Chandigarh||Traders honour Mayor||Senior functionaries of the Chandigarh Beopar Mandal (CBM) and prominent traders of the Sector 7 Madhya Marg market honoured Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma here today.During the event, the Mayor not only promised upgrade of inside road as well as parking in front of showrooms, but also assured to take up the issue of exorbitant increase in charges for conversion of upper floors and backyard for commercial usage.Among others, Satpal Gupta, chairman, Charanjiv Singh, president, Diwakar Sahoonja, patron-cum-chief spokesperson, Gursharan Batra, adviser, Sanjiv Mahajan, adviser, and Sanjiv Chadha, general secretary of the Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, honoured city Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/traders-honour-mayor-209010
07-02-2021||Chandigarh||Complaint box installed at Sec 47 community centre||An idea-cum-complaint box has been installed for the convenience of residents at the community centre in Sector 47 here.The work of installing paver blocks in all connecting routes of Sector 47-D was also started today. It was done following a ward committee meeting held under the chairmanship of former Mayor and area councillor Davesh Moudgil.The committee discussed various issues such as pruning of trees, repairing road lanes, running special drives for cleanliness and creating awareness among public to separate wet and dry waste.Civic body and UT police officials, along with ward committee members, were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/complaint-box-installed-at-sec-47-community-centre-209011
07-02-2021||Mohali||Assure us of getting telecom tower removed, get votes: Phase X residents||In order to get the mobile tower removed from the residential area in Phase X here, residents have announced to vote only for the candidate who would assure them of getting the tower removed.The residents have been campaigning in the area urging people to vote only for the candidate who would help them in removing the mobile tower from the area. They say radiation from the tower is affecting the lives of people, especially children and senior citizens.Rajdeep Gaur, a resident, said they had written to the MC authorities several times in this regard. The civic body had also issued orders to remove the tower. The house on which the mobile tower had been installed belongs to an influential person.Rajdeep said now residents of the area had decided to support only that candidate who would assure them of removing the tower after winning the elections. They had been visiting people in the ward to create awareness among them about the harmful impact of radiation from the mobile tower. People had also supported them in this cause.Radiation from tower affecting livesThe residents have been campaigning in the area urging people to vote only for the candidate who would help them in removing the mobile tower from the area. They say radiation from the tower is affecting the lives of people, especially children and senior citizens.Congress candidates go door to doorAmarjit Singh ‘Jeeti’ Sidhu, Congress candidate from Ward No. 10, along with Sucha Singh Kolar, party candidate from Ward No. 40, carried out a joint door-to-door campaign in Sector 78 here on Saturday. While seeking support, they said MC elections were a good opportunity for people to support and strengthen Balbir Sidhu’s efforts for the development of the town.Huge support from people, says Azad Group candidateParvinder Singh Sohana, who is contesting the elections from the Azad Group, said all candidates of the group were getting huge support from the people. He said all candidates of the Azad Group were contesting elections on the issue of development and they would win by record votes. He said in the past five years, former Mayor Kulwant Singh has changed the face of the city with its all-round development.Dera Bassi MLA holds meeting in several wardsDera Bassi: In view of the forthcoming Municipal Council elections, Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma addressed meetings in various wards here on Saturday. He said during the tenure of the Shiromani Akali Dal government, Atta-Dal scheme, 200 units of free electricity, Shagun Scheme, Bhagat Puran Singh Health Insurance Scheme and Cycle Scheme were launched to uplift the living standards of the poor. Congress candidates went door-to-door seeking votes from the electorate. Meanwhile, Anju Choudhary, AAP candidate from Ward No. 10, alleged that 101 votes of Vrindavan Garden from Ward No. 10 had been shifted to Ward No. 12, while 70 votes had been added to Ward No. 10 from Ward No. 9. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/assure-us-of-getting-telecom-tower-removed-get-votes-phase-x-residents-209012
07-02-2021||Mohali||Store owner robbed of Rs 20,000 in Mohali||AKSIPS-41 boys log 99-run winChandigarh: AKSIPS, Sector 41, registered a 99-run win over Lakshay XI, Pinjore, in the ongoing Covid Fighters U-13 League-cum-Knock Out Tournament on Saturday. Batting first, AKSIPS posted 179/5 in 30 overs with the help of Ravish Kumar (73), Yamun Singh (33), Avinash (21) and Sujal Rohila (17). Onkar Singh claimed two wickets for the bowling side. In reply, Lakshay XI lads were bundled out for 80 runs in 15.3 overs. Mukul Zadhva (16), Parth (15), Roop Kunwar (11) and Kushal Japjot (11) were the main contributors to the total. Raghav, Vardan and Samar Kaushal took two wickets each for the bowling side. TNSHockey trials tomorrowChandigarh: Hockey Chandigarh will conduct trials for selecting local girls’ sub-junior team on February 8 (2 pm) at the Sector 42 Sports Complex. The selected players will represent the city in the 11th Hockey India Sub Junior Women (Division-A) Championship at Simdega, Jharkhand, from Match 10 to 21. According to Anil Vohra, general secretary, players born on and after January 1, 2005, can participate in the trials. They have to submit documents, including original Aadhaar card with complete date of birth, original birth certificate, bonafide certificate from their respective school and five photographs with white background, at the time of the trials. TNSAthletics Assn to hold trials todayChandigarh: The Chandigarh Athletics Association will organise trials to select the local team for the upcoming 32nd North Zone Junior Athletics Championship. The trials will be held at the Sector 7 Sports Complex (2.15 pm) on February 7. The selected team will participate in the 32nd North Zone Junior Athletics Championship in Kanpur (Uttar Pradesh) from February 23 to 26. TNSRoller skating meet from Feb 11Panchkula: The District Roller Skating Association of Panchkula will organise the District Roller Skating Championship on February 11 and 12 at Blue Bird High School, Sector 16. The selected skaters will represent Panchkula district in the Haryana State Roller Skating Championship. As per the Roller Skating Federation of India (RSFI) guidelines, all skaters must register online before participating in the district and state championships. Entry forms are available at respective skating centre and schools and skaters can contact coach Chander Singhal for further inquiry. TNSBodybuilding c’ship postponedChandigarh: The 29th Junior Mr Chandigarh Bodybuilding Championship, scheduled to be organised by the Chandigarh Amateur Bodybuilding Association on February 14, has been postponed. The bodybuilding championship will now be organised on March 21 at Sri Guru Gobind Singh College, Sector 26, here. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/store-owner-robbed-of-rs-20-000-in-mohali-209013
