08-02-2021|| Chandigarh||Daylight robbery at Chandigarh State Cooperative Bank||An armed robbery was reported at the Chandigarh State Cooperative Bank in Sector 61 on Monday morning, police said.The robber casually walked into the bank with a gun and fled with Rs 10 lakh before bank employees could raise an alarm, police said.The bank is barely 20 metres from a police post---a fact that could leave Chandigarh Police red in the face. Police said they were investigating the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/daylight-robbery-at-chandigarh-state-cooperative-bank-209608
08-02-2021||---||SC refuses to entertain petition by Chandigarh-based dentist seeking criminal prosecution of BSF Director||New Delhi, February 8The Supreme Court on Monday refused to entertain a petition by a Chandigarh-based dentist seeking criminal prosecution of BSF Director General and Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) chief Rakesh Asthana under Prevention of Corruption Act."Why under Article 32? We can't entertain this," a Bench of Justice L Nageswar Rao and Justice Ravindra Bhat told the petitioner's counsel.The top court, however, gave liberty to petitioner Mohit Dhawan to approach the Punjab and Haryana High Court to pursue his case even as senior counsel Mukul Rohatgi opposed it.Dhawan submitted he had filed a complaint against Asthana before the CBI Director in 2019 but there had been no action. He accused Asthana of falsely implicating him in a case and intimidating him by abusing his official position.Alleging extortion, harassment and fabrication of documents by police, he had also sought directions for providing adequate security to the petitioner in view of grave threats.Alleging that the Central Vigilance Commission and the CBI were sitting over the complaint for more than 16 months without informing him about the status of the action taken, Dhawan demanded criminal prosecution of all such erring officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sc-refuses-to-entertain-petition-by-chandigarh-based-dentist-seeking-criminal-prosecution-of-bsf-director-209573
08-02-2021||Open House||Open activities in all sectors, but don’t lower guard||Take all precautions religiouslyIt is indeed a welcome step that the government and the Administration have agreed to normalise things. ‘Apni Mandis’ have been restored. Schools have also opened. Cinema houses have been allowed to function with full capacity. It is good for the labour class. But we should never forget that the dreaded disease is still there. We must all religiously take precautions.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhAn achievement, but be cautiousMany have lost their livelihood during the pandemic. Economic activity have slowed down in almost all sectors. Although with hard work and sincere efforts we are on path to recovery, yet there is no reason to lower the vigil. Genetic mutation of the coronavirus is a cause of concern. We need to be extra cautious while things get back to new normal.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliIgnoring precautions is a risky affairThe government has now allowed full activities in public places. Is this good step? No medical authority can claim that coronavirus has vanished completely. People who have developed immunity must not mistake it for total safety from the virus. The authorities have to choose between reviving economy or to save lives. Ignoring all precautions will be risky.Capt Amar Jeet (retd), ChandigarhDon’t take hasty decisionsNothing is more important than life. I don’t understand why the cap on the numbers of persons in functions has been removed. Isn’t this ridiculous. Ask families, which bore the brunt of Covid-19. Infection can spread from schools, cinema halls and marriage palaces. The authorities should not take hasty decision.Opinder Sekhon, ChandigarhLifting curbs is not advisableNo doubt, with strict and timely lockdown the authorities managed to fight Covid-19 pandemic. Results show that even with limited sources and capabilities, the spread of virus can be controlled. However, on the pretext of earlier revival of economy, it will be ill advised to lift curbs and take things easy when it comes to pandemic. Danger of virus still lurks everywhere.Deepak, ChandigarhThe show must go onAs the threat of coronavirus has not subsided, the authorities should allow all activities. Officials concerned should conduct surprise checks at public places to ensure following of norms. The show must go on in the interest of common man as well as the government as restrictions on activities will bring more miseries.KC Rana, ChandigarhDon’t throw caution to the windsThere is no denying the fact that everyone wants to lead a normal life after spending almost 10 months in traumatic conditions. The government has taken a right decision to give boost to the economy by lifting curbs. The onus to protect ourselves from the virus lies on us.SC Luthra, ChandigarhThe battle is not over yetNowadays, coronavirus cases are on a steady decline giving us hope that the pandemic may be on its last leg. The next mission is to vaccinate enough people to stem the spread of the deadly virus, which will take months. Till then, measures such as mask wearing, maintaining social distance and prohibiting large gatherings will have to remain in force.Anureet Dhami, ZirakpurUtmost vigil is the need of the hourFor sure it is necessary to reopen all activities to bring the economy on the track. We must follow SOPs in letter and in spirit. Businesses cannot be closed for long. The people must understand that allowing activities is just to boost economy. Any lapse on their part with regard to the safety norms will prove catastrophic. Therefore, utmost vigil is the need of the hour.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhCurse of Coronavirus still not goneIt is blessing for our country that Covid cases have reduced substantially. The government has taken right step at this point of time for reviving economy by allowing activities in all sectors. Now, it becomes the duty of the people to take safety measure. This curse of coronavirus has still not lifted. The UT police must strictly ensure that everyone follows safety guidelines.Moti Bhateja, ChandigarhToo early to start activitiesIt’s too early to start all activities as this may lead to a surge in Covid cases. The new virus strain has surfaced in western countries, but the authorities instead of learning from it have opened all sectors. Teachers and students can contract virus easily. Schools, colleges and universities should offer online education. The proverb “Prevention is better than cure” should be followed.Adish Sood, AmlohWelcome decision for revival of businessWaiving off 100% restrictions on use of all facilities is a welcome step of the Chandigarh Administration. This will help in revival of the businesses. Besides, the decision will create more employment opportunities and would help to bring back the shattered economy on the track. People must not be complacent about the declining trend of the Covid-19 cases.Hardeep Singh Sulach, Mohali‘Jaan hai to jahan hai’ apt for the situationNo doubt that to bring economy back on the track markets should be allowed to open. But the respective Administrations of the tricity must agree that Covid-19 days are not over yet. In functions social distancing is not maintained while only few wear masks. Bringing economy back on the track should not mean putting residents at risk. Let’s not forget ‘Jaan hai to jahan hai’.Balbir Singh Batra, MohaliFear of virus looms largeLifting restrictions gradually is heartening as well as welcoming to bring the battered economy back on the track. But people must understand that the fear of virus still looms large. So, don’t let the guard down. To combat virus, we need to adhere to simple precautions like wearing mask, hand hygiene, avoiding crowded places and maintaining social distance.Veena Mahajan, ChandigarhFinancial condition will improveThis decision of the UT authorities to open all activities is a brave attempt to kickstart the economy. An essential boost to the economy is needed. How long one can wait. It is imperative for the people to adhere to SOPs. The objective of this move is to improve financial condition of the people.Vidya Sagar Garg, ChandigarhEase restrictions graduallyPublic gatherings and social functions significantly increase the risk of spreading Covid-19. Obviously, we should seriously consider postponing or reducing mass gathering. Celebrations like weddings, festivals and parades must be limited or put-on hold. Restrictions which helped in suppressing the spread of the virus should be eased gradually.Anita Tandon, KhararOnly hospitality sector should openThe government has allowed all activities. Classes should not have resumed for kids as they are not able to understand Covid or take precautions. The government should allow only hospitality sector to open as other industry is already working at almost full swing.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhConsider threat perceptionOpening of all sectors with maximum human congestion by the government to bring the economy back on the track is a step in right direction. But the coronavirus has not been completely eradicated. Still cases of virus infection are surfacing. Open establishments on the basis of threat perception.Wg Cdr Jasbir Minhas (retd), MohaliRight decision to restore normalcyIts already over a year since pandemic engulfed everyone’s life. Many lost jobs, businesses were shut, children were deprived of education and some struggled hard to earn livelihood. Masses have learnt to live with Covid by accepting and following protocols. To bring the life back to normal, for the survival of humans and for nation’s economy, it’s right decision to open every sector.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliElderly, patients must take extra careAlthough the number of Covid cases are continuously declining, yet it’s too early to declare that danger has ended. Resumption of all activities was necessary to avoid further deterioration of economic condition. The vaccine drive has strengthened our hope to fight the Covid infection. Old and patients suffering with chronic diseases still need to be extra careful.Surinder Paul Wadhwa, MohaliEconomy cannot be in the doldrumsThere is no denying that amid steep decline in Covid-19 cases in the tricity and elsewhere in the country, the dispensation has lifted embargo on activities. The dispensation as also the public have to bear in mind that the hard-hit economy cannot be allowed to remain in doldrums indefinitely. There is no point in delaying or deferring efforts to reboot the economy of the country.Ramesh K Dhiman, ChandigarhStart activities, but with precautionsSlowly and steadily, lives and livelihoods are limping back to the status quo ante. SOPs are devised for restoration of public activities without hosting the deadly virus. Wide awareness, education and strict enforcement of precautions and preventions are the sine qua non for opening public activities. The caveat ‘davaee bhi, karhaee bhi’ holds good in such situation.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaOnus lies on citizensAlthough allowing activities to bring the economy back on the track is a good move, yet it comes at price. As the authorities have removed the limit on the number of persons attending social events, it’s duty of citizens to ensure that they follow norms. The latest SOPs and preventive measures must be strictly observed so that the economic growth doesn’t come at the cost of citizens health.Simran Sidhu, ChandigarhEconomy must open upEconomy must open for further growth of the country and individual. Thousands of domestic workers are now struggling to make both ends meet. With so many unemployed competing for jobs these workers are likely to have even less bargaining power in the labour market after the pandemic. If we refer to the recent measures announced by the government these are only for short term and may not deliver the desired results.SC Dhall, ZirakpurNo option except opening businessesIndia has no option except to open up the economy. It will take time to restore normalcy in the services sector. The longer the lockdown the greater is the impact on livelihoods. That, in turn necessitates financial support for vulnerable households and susceptible businesses.Sanket Dhall, ChandigarhQUESTIONThe Chandigarh Municipal Corporation has made tall claims about stray dog sterilisation. Still, there is a rise in the canine population and stray dog-bite cases in the UT. What needs to be done to deal with the issue?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/open-activities-in-all-sectors-but-dont-lower-guard-209373
08-02-2021||Zirakpur||Farmer unions protest RSS shakha at school in Baltana||Baltana RSS shakha was gheraoed by a group of 35 protesters for the second consecutive day at the Government High School this morning.The police said they were local residents who belonged to various farmers’ unions. They were protesting the use of government premises for private activities.As many as 70 RSS volunteers, including children, were present during the meeting. The police had received no complaint when the reports last came in.Zirakpur DSP Amroz Singh said: “The matter has been brought to the notice of the administration and necessary action would be taken.”Zirakpur RSS Nagar Karyavahak Rajesh Sharma said, The shaka is conducted daily here with the permission of the administration. The protest is politically motivated. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farmer-unions-protest-rss-shakha-at-school-in-baltana-209243
08-02-2021||Chandigarh||Ration kits given to widows in Chandigarh||The 14th Monthly Ration Distribution programme was organised by Balramji Dass Tandon Charitable Foundation wherein one-month ration kits were distributed among the families of 61 widows on their doorstep. The free monthly ration distribution programme was started by Balramji Dass Tandon Charitable Foundation on January 12.The free ration kit included flour, parmal rice, sugar, pulses, mustard oil, salt, tea, various forms of spices, toiletries, grocery and vegetables. Till date 550 Ration Kits to widows have been distributed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ration-kits-given-to-widows-in-chandigarh-209241
08-02-2021||---||Preneet Kaur seeks votes for Ward No. 11 candidate||Dera Bassi, February 7Patiala MP Preneet Kaur and Dera Bassi Congress in-charge Deepinder Singh Dhillon today campaigned for Ward No. 11 Congress candidate Indu Saini near the Gulabgarh road here today.Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma too campaigned in various wards of Dera Bassi today.Former chairman of the District Planning Board Krishnapal Sharma, Bhupinder Singh Saini, social worker Gurdarshan Singh Saini and Rajinder Singh Isapur were also present.While campaigning in favour of SAD candidate Dilbag Singh from Ward No. 12 in Zirakpur, Sharma said Dilbag is an honest, hardworking and forward-thinking man. He is a local resident of the area.Congress candidate from Ward No. 12 Udayvir Singh Dhillon is the son of Dera Bassi Congress in-charge Deepinder Singh Dhillon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/preneet-kaur-seeks-votes-for-ward-no-11-candidate-209228
08-02-2021||---||Tennis meet from today||Mohali, February 7Roots Tennis Academy, Zirakpur, will organise the three-day All-India Tennis Association (AITA) U-14 National Ranking Championship from February 8.Players born on or after January 1, 2007, are eligible to participate in the championship.Over 60 players have confirmed their entry for the championship.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tennis-meet-from-today-209247
08-02-2021||Chandigarh||Man held for Delhi Republic Day violence in Chandigarh||Man duped of Rs 25L, 1 bookedChandigarh: The UT police have booked an unknown person for allegedly duping a Sector 15 resident of Rs 25 lakh in 2020. Complainant Saurabh Mago reported that the person cheated him of Rs 25 lakh by impersonating as an insurance agent. The police have registered a case of cheating at the Sector 17 police station and an investigation has been initiated by the Cyber Crime Investigation Cell. TNSSeven-day NSS camp beginsChandigarh: Dev Samaj College of Education inaugurated a seven-day NSS camp. Dr Sapna Nanda, Principal, Government College of Yoga and Health Education, was the chief guest. Dr Agnese Dhillon, principal of the college, extended a formal welcome. After the vote of thanks, students sung the National Anthem. TNSFull attendance for non-teaching staffChandigarh: Panjab University’s departments and offices will function with 100 per cent attendance of the non-teaching staff from Monday. The Registrar, PU, has approved full-fledged attendance of employees. “All departments/offices of the PU shall function with the 100 per cent non-teaching staff strength with effect from February 8.” TNSExam to be rescheduledChandigarh: Panjab University will reschedule the online exam for Environment Studies, which was postponed on Friday due to a technical glitch, informed the Controller of Examinations (CoE), Panjab University. “We are assessing the glitch as it was unexpected. The new schedule will be announced soon,” said Jagat Bhushan, CoE. TNSDBU observes Cancer DayChandigarh: The Department of Radio-Imaging Technology and the Department of Paramedical Sciences of Desh Bhagat University organised an awareness session on World Cancer Day. Students painted banners and posters depicting types of cancers under the ‘I am and I will’ theme. Pro-Chancellor Tajinder Kaur said the primary goal of World Cancer Day was to significantly reduce illness. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-held-for-delhi-republic-day-violence-in-chandigarh-209253
08-02-2021||Panchkula||Three youths arrested for attempt to loot ATM in Panchkula||Three youths have been arrested for allegedly trying to loot an ATM of a bank in Devi Nagar, Sector 3, here.The suspects have been identified as Rinku (24), Lucky (24) and Gaurav (19) of Dera Bassi. They were produced in a local court and sent to judicial custody.The branch manager of the Union Bank of India, Navin Chandra, told the police that in the early hours of Saturday, the thieves tried to open the iron door of the machine in a bid to steal money, but failed in their attempt.The police said earlier, the suspects used to live in the same locality in a rented accommodation.A case has been registered under Sections 380 (theft in a dwelling house), 457 (lurking house trespass or house breaking by night to commit an offence punishable with imprisonment) and 511 (attempting to commit offence) of the IPC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-youths-arrested-for-attempt-to-loot-atm-in-panchkula-209248
08-02-2021||Panchkula||Morni being promoted as tourist centre: Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta||Significant steps are being taken to develop Morni as a desirable tourist centre. This was stated by Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta during the flagging-off of a bicycle rally by Shivalik Development Board today.“Paragliding test flights are being held at Morni hills by the BSF. Other activities like camping, off-road car rally, cycle race, mountain biking tracks, road trekking and visit to herbal garden will be conducted next week. This will attract tourists to the hills. Ultimately, employment opportunities will be generated for the local youth,” he said. Gupta said the Covid-19 pandemic, which came as a challenge, created a momentum for cycling.Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal, who was also present, said not only Panchkula, Morni hills were becoming the first choice of the youth of neighbouring states. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/morni-being-promoted-as-tourist-centre-haryana-speaker-gian-chand-gupta-209249
08-02-2021||---||House caretaker, taxi driver commit suicide in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, February 7Two incidents of suicide were reported from the city today. In one of the incidents, victim Balam Singh (45), who worked as a caretaker at a house in Sector 18, committed suicide by jumping from the roof of the house. A PCR team rushed him to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, where doctors declared him brought dead. The victim was reportedly depressed and had also visited the hospital on February 5. He is survived by his wife and two daughters.The other incident was reported from Dadu Majra Colony. A 28-year-old man, Manpreet, a taxi driver, committed suicide by hanging himself. The police said the victim had a fight with his wife sometime ago after which she left the house. The victim was reportedly depressed. Inquest proceedings have been initiated at the Maloya police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/house-caretaker-taxi-driver-commit-suicide-in-chandigarh-209250
08-02-2021||---||Panchkula likely to hold draw for vending sites||Panchkula, February 7The Panchkula Municipal Corporation may soon hold a draw for allocating spaces to street vendors.Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal, while confirming the development, said a draw of lots would be conducted for allocating sites to street vendors as per a rehabilitation plan.“We had issued tenders for around 10 vending zones. Many of them have been completed, while some are on the verge of completion,” he said. On the failure of the first vending zone in Sector 19, Goyal said vendors had expressed space-related issues for not moving to the sites they were allotted.“We had increased the size of a vending site from 1x1.5 m to 1.8x2.7 m. They now have enough space to run their business,” he said. The Sector 19 vending spot, which could earlier accommodate 458 vendors, can now be used by 260 vendors.Similarly, the vending zones in Sector 15 and Sector 2 will soon be allocated to street vendors. Goyal said of 3,700 street vendors in the city, only 1,800-2,000 are residents of Panchkula. The issue of encroachments has been prevalent in the city for a long time now, with the authorities struggling to find an ultimate solution. However, it remains an integral part of the poll promises.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-likely-to-hold-draw-for-vending-sites-209251
08-02-2021||Naina Mishra||Vaccination: Chandigarh frontline worker turnout 77% so far||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 7The turnout of frontline workers has been 77.4 per cent in the past four days in Chandigarh, whereas the overall percentage of beneficiaries turning up for Covid-19 inoculation is 45 per cent.The vaccination programme for the frontline workers began on February 3 and four sessions have been conducted so far.Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, UT, said, “We have been inoculating the CRPF personnel initially and that is why the turnout is good among the frontline workers. From tomorrow onwards, targeted beneficiaries will be called at the police hospital. The real picture of hesitancy among the frontline workers will emerge thereafter. So far, the turnout has been above average.”The Central government had recently pointed out a less coverage of health care workers for Covid-19 inoculation in Chandigarh and asked the UT to enhance it. The coverage has been only 20 per cent in Chandigarh.Dr Kang said the Administration was going to set up a counselling cell comprising 8-10 health care professionals for beneficiaries. Besides, the heads of each department have been asked to counsel their respective staff regarding the vaccine.Sources in the Administration said it would be a strenuous task for the UT to expand the coverage of health care beneficiaries to even 40 per cent, given the fact that 50 per cent health staff was still hesitant to Covid-19 vaccination.Health employees to be inoculated by Feb 20The UT Health Department is now going to pick up the pace for inoculating health care workers as the Central government has fixed a deadline for their vaccination, which is February 20.No health employee will be called for vaccination after the deadline. In the month of March, the vaccination round will shift focus to the elderly above 50 years. The Centre has fetched the data from the electoral rolls of each state and will be subsequently uploaded on the CoWIN portal for registration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vaccination-chandigarh-frontline-worker-turnout-77-so-far-209252
08-02-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 19 Covid cases||14 found infected in MohaliMohali: The district reported 14 fresh Covid-19 cases during the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 19,613. Meanwhile, 43 more patients were cured of the disease. No fresh Covid death was reported.Among the new cases, eight were reported from Mohali (urban), one each from Gharuan and Kharar and two each from Dera Bassi and Dhakoli. The district has so far seen 19,613 cases, while 18,818 patients have been cured. There are now 423 active cases. As many as 372 persons have succumbed to the virus. — TNSEight new cases in Panchkula districtPanchkula: Panchkula on Sunday reported eight fresh Covid cases, taking the tally to 10,604. The Covid toll remained at 147. While 10,354 patients have recovered, 103 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 97.64 per cent. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-19-covid-cases-209254
08-02-2021||Sandeep Rana||Animal board: All’s not well with Chandigarh Municipal Corporation’s sterilisation drive||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 7The stray dog sterilisation programme of the Municipal Corporation, which was already facing a flak from residents, has now been lambasted in a report by the Animal Welfare Board of India. The board has found a number of anomalies in the programme.Following complaints of “irregularities and improper implementation” of the programme, the board conducted an inspection of the Animal Birth Control (ABC) unit in Sector 38 (West) in October last year and found a number of shortcomings in it. This has raised several questions over the working of the civic body that had outsourced the job to an agency, headed by Dr Amandeep Kamboj.“A wrong anaesthesia protocol was adopted. The amount of the painkiller, meloxicam, administered to dogs was four times the normal. This can impact kidney functioning in canines. The agency has been using unsterilised surgical gloves. Kamboj was handling the surgical instruments with bare hands, which is against the protocol,” the report observed.“In spite of the suggestion against using unsterilised leftover suture material dipped in alcohol, the vet continued to use it. Dr Kamboj was taught the minimum number of surgical knots for chromic catgut and vicryl, but during the surgery, he did not follow it,” the report added.Dr Devi, one of the experts who compiled the report, said the vet’s surgical skill was satisfactory overall. Although he did not know flank surgery for female dogs, she said.On this, RK Garg, a city-based activist, said: “It is unbelievable that 450-500 dogs are being sterilised in a month. They are operating upon male dogs easily, but female ones are not properly operated upon. There must be an independent inquiry into the programme.”Meanwhile, Dr Kamboj said they were adopting all procedures. “The team had inspected the unit last October and made certain recommendations. We will work on adopting these,” he added.The 2018 census of the UT Animal Husbandry Department had reported 12,920 stray canines in the city. However, to the surprise of residents, the corporation claimed to have sterilised 16,300 dogs since 2015. The MC reasons “dog cycle” and “open city borders” behind the gap in figures. As many as 10,558 dog-bite cases were reported from Chandigarh last year.Couple beats dog to deathMohali: Makhan Singh and his wife, residents of Balongi, have been booked for cruelty to animals after an activist complained to the police that the couple beat a stray dog with a stick. The injured dog was taken to a hospital where it died during treatment. The couple claimed that the dog had bitten Makhan Singh. A case under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act has been registered at the Balongi police post. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/animal-board-alls-not-well-with-chandigarh-municipal-corporations-sterilisation-drive-209242
08-02-2021||Amarjot Kaur||At Sector 17, Chandigarh, art on farmers’ resistance takes centre stage||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 7Armed with oil paints, canvas, pastel colours, charcoal blocks and brushes, several artists gathered in the support of farmers near the Rooster Fountain at the Sector 17 Plaza today.Artists painted portraits of 24-year-old Dalit activist Nodeep Kaur, farmer leader Rakesh Tikait and a bloodied face of protester Jagseer Singh after the R-Day violence.Some of the supporters took to performance art. One Hardev stood blindfolded and barechested, portraying the plight of farmers near the Delhi border, while Vijay held fresh green plants in his hands and stuffed dry, papery ones in his mouth. “This is what farmers look like. They sell their best crop to feed people and consume ‘sookhi roti’ themselves,” said Vijay. Hardev invited people to write on his body.One of the supporters, Jashandeep Kaur, said: “There’s no mention of Nodeep Kaur in the media, that’s why I made her portrait. She has been arrested by the Haryana police for no apparent reason and has reportedly been sexually assaulted too.” Sania, a postgraduate in fine arts, painted farmers as warriors fighting for their rights and Tarun Kumar painted a portrait of Rakesh Tikait.Another artist, Sarabjeet Singh, painted a portrait of a farmer with a slogan: ‘I am a farmer, not a terrorist’. He said, “I’m making this portrait to show the real image of a farmer. This is not a fight about Khalisthani and Hindus or Hindus and Muslim; it’s a fight between India’s farmers and its government.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/at-sector-17-chandigarh-art-on-farmers-resistance-takes-centre-stage-209236
08-02-2021||---||Mohali MC poll: Shot in arm for Congress||Mohali, January 7The Congress today received a shot in the arm after the Aggarwal Samaj, Mohali, announced its support to the party candidates in all 50 wards for the Mohali MC elections to be held on February 14. A decision to this effect was taken during a meeting held by the Aggarwal Community at Phase 2 here.Aggarwal SamajThe Mohali Congress has been working tirelessly to ensure benefits for the poor and the underprivileged.“The Mohali Congress, led by Punjab Health Minister and local sitting MLA Balbir Sidhu, has been working tirelessly to ensure benefits for the poor and underprivileged,” said members of the Aggarwal Samaj.“We are keen on ensuring thumping win for the Congress in the forthcoming elections so that the party, under the guidance of Balbir Sidhu, continues to accelerate the pace of development in the city,” they said.Meanwhile, intensifying campaign for the Congress, Punjab Health Minister and sitting MLA Balbir Sidhu today addressed over 25 election meetings in support of party candidates, including Rishab Jain, Raj Rani Jain, Kulwant Singh Kaler, Vineet Malik, Prabhjot Kaur Sidhu, Baljit Kaur and Ravinder Singh.Addressing the gathering, Balbir Sidhu lambasted former Mohali Mayor Kulwant Singh for switching loyalties for vested interests. He said after seeing no future for the SAD in the MC elections due to the ongoing farmers’ protest, Kulwant parted ways with the Akali Dal and formed the Azad Group to contest the elections.This time, people of Mohali would teach him a lesson for putting personal interest first. People had already made up their mind to ensure win for the Congress in the elections as it was the only party in Mohali that was putting up a united face in the elections, Sidhu said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-mc-poll-shot-in-arm-for-congress-209238
08-02-2021||New Delhi||60-yr-old man from Chandigarh held in connection with Red Fort violence||The Delhi Police on Sunday arrested a 60-year-old man from Chandigarh in connection with the violence that took place at Red Fort during the farmers’ tractor parade on Republic Day, officials said.With his arrest, the total number of people nabbed by Delhi Police in connection with the violence that took place across the national capital on January 26 has gone up to 127.Sukhdev Singh was arrested from Chandigarh by the Crime Branch team, which is probing 13 cases registered in connection with the Republic Day violence, they said.The police had earlier announced a cash reward for Singh and three others for allegedly instigating protesters.The police have also announced cash reward of Rs 1 lakh for information that can lead to the arrest of actor Deep Sidhu, Jugraj Singh, Gurjot Singh and Gurjant Singh who hoisted flags at the Red Fort or were involved in the act.A senior police officer said Singh was allegedly leading the mob at the Red Fort on the day of incident and he was found to have an “active presence” at the spot.So far, a total of 127 people have been arrested in connection with the Republic Day violence across the national capital, police said.Thousands of farmers protesting the Centre’s new agri laws had clashed with the police during the tractor parade on January 26.Many of the protesters, driving tractors, reached the Red Fort and entered the monument. Some protesters even hoisted religious flags on its domes and a flagstaff at the ramparts, where the national flag is unfurled on Independence Day. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/60-yr-old-man-from-chandigarh-held-in-connection-with-red-fort-violence-209225
08-02-2021||Gaurav Kanthwal||RSS shakha disrupted in Baltana for second day||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, February 7Baltana RSS shakha was on Sunday morning gheraoed by a group of protesters for the second day.A group of 35 unidentified persons disrupted the daily meeting and raised slogans against the shakha around 6 am.As many as 70 RSS volunteers were present during the meeting.The meeting was held at the government primary school in Baltana, near police station, and is one of the many places where the RSS conducts shakha everyday. No such incident was reported from any other venue.The police have not received any complaint till now.Zirakpur RSS Nagar Pramukh Rajesh Sharma said: “The shakha was disrupted for the second day today. Police was also present at the spot. The shakha is conducted daily here with the permission of the administration. The protest is politically motivated in the run-up to the Municipal Council elections. We will follow the administration orders.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rss-shakha-disrupted-in-baltana-for-second-day-209135
