09-02-2021||New Delhi||Subhash Chawla appointed as new Chandigarh Congress chief||The Congress on Tuesday appointed Subhash Chawla as the new president of the Chandigarh Territorial Congress Committee (CTC), replacing Pradeep Chhabra.Chawla is a former mayor of Chandigarh and an old-time Congressman."Congress president has appointed Subhash Chawla as the president of Chandigarh Territorial Congress Committee with immediate effect," a statement issued by the party said."The party appreciates the contributions of outgoing president Pradeep Chhabra," it added.Chawla has been a loyalist of former Union minister and a former MP from Chandigarh, Pawan Kumar Bansal.- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/subhash-chawla-appointed-as-new-chandigarh-congress-chief-210056
09-02-2021||---||Four juveniles arrested, 28 bicycles recovered||Panchkula, February 8The local police have busted a gang of juveniles with the arrest of four for their suspected involvement in a series of bicycle thefts.The four juveniles are aged between 12 and 14, the police said. They were sent to the Ambala juvenile observation home after being produced in a local court.A total of 28 high-end sports bicycles and a motorcycle have been recovered. ASI Ram Mehar of the Sector 21 police post said the thieves used to steal bicycles parked in markets and inside homes.Recent cases||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-juveniles-arrested-28-bicycles-recovered-209775
09-02-2021||---||Robber enters bank, pulls out gun, loots Rs 8.65 lakh||Chandigarh, February 8In a daylight robbery, an armed assailant looted Rs 8.65 lakh from a branch of Chandigarh State Cooperative Bank in Sector 61 today.The bank is a stone’s throw from a police post, a fact that has left the Chandigarh Police red-faced.The suspect had his face covered with a handkerchief and casually walked into the bank and claimed that he wanted to enquire about his account. He then reportedly pulled out a gun. There were four employees, including two women, in the bank at the time of the incident, but nobody raised the alarm.Amarjeet Singh, one of the bank employees, said the suspect had his gun pointed at a woman employee. “He then came towards the cash counter and pointed the gun at me,” he said.Amarjeet said the suspect, who appeared to be in his 30s, asked him to hand over the cash or he would shoot him. He then handed over the bag containing the cash to the suspect. The suspect, before fleeing, asked the employees not to leave the premises for five minutes. The police said there was no security guard at the bank. A few minutes after the robber left, a woman employee went to the police post and cops rushed to the bank to look into the incident. Soon, various police teams reached the spot and initiated an investigation.The police suspect that the robber escaped in a black car that was parked on the road on the rear side of the bank.“The robber is suspected to have escaped towards Mohali in a black car in which his accomplice was waiting,” said a cop. A team of the Mohali police also visited the spot and questioned the employees.Meanwhile, a case under Sections 392 of the IPC and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered at the Sector 36 police station.Police post stone’s throw from spotThe police post in Sector 61 is just a stone’s throw (nearly 10 metres) in the same block from the bank branch where the robbery took place. The police, however, came to know about the incident only after a bank employee went to inform them after the robber fled the spot.Fled in black car“The robber is suspected to have escaped towards Mohali in a black car with his accomplice,” said a police official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/robber-enters-bank-pulls-out-gun-loots-rs-8-65-lakh-209776
09-02-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||6 companies in fray for Chandigarh Power Department privatisation||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 8Only six companies have been left in the fray to take over the UT Electricity Department.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said six firms — Sterlite Power, ReNew Wing Energy, NESCL (NTPC), Adani Transmission Ltd, Tata Power and Torrent Power — had submitted their bids for the privatisation of the electricity wing of the UT Engineering Department. The Engineering Department had issued the Request for Proposal (RFP) to 20 intended bidders and today was the last date to submit the bids.Staff up in arms Gopal Datt Joshi, general secretary of the union, termed the introduction of the Electricity Amendment Bill, 2021, in the Budget session as a betrayal. “If the Bill is passed in its present form, the consumers and employees will be the worst affected.” he said. TNSOn a petition filed by the UT Powermen Union, a Division Bench of the Punjab and Haryana High Court had on December 1, 2020, stayed the tendering process regarding the privatisation of the Electricity Department.The petitioner had contended that they were aggrieved by the decision to privatise the electricity wing by selling 100 per cent stake in the absence of any provision under Section 131 of the Electricity Act, 2003.The Bench was also told that the process of privatisation of the wing could not be initiated at all, especially when it was running in profits. The sale of 100 per cent stake was unjust. It was economically efficient with distribution losses less than the target of 15 per cent fixed by the Centre. However, on January 12, the Supreme Court had stayed the order of the High Court and on January 14, the UT Administration resumed the sale of tender for the privatisation process.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/6-companies-in-fray-for-chandigarh-power-department-privatisation-209777
09-02-2021||---||Waste collectors’ society agrees to work under Chandigarh MC||Chandigarh, February 8The Door-to-Door Garbage Collectors’ Society today struck a compromise with the Municipal Corporation, agreeing to work as drivers or helpers in waste-lifting vehicles.The society had signed an MoU with the MC about two years ago regarding the issue. However, many collectors had a few reservations on some points agreed to in the MoU.“We have today fixed those small issues. We are now open about collecting garbage through vehicles. Collectors will now register for the same,” said society Chairman OP Saini after a meeting with the MC officials.Till now, only about 640 collectors have registered with the MC. The civic body has a list of 1,284 collectors operating in the city. However, collectors peg the number on the higher side. February 1 was the last date for registration.The MC hopes to start the waste collection through vehicles in the second phase in a week. At present, the drive has been initiated in Sectors 1 to 30.Meanwhile, Shamsher Lotiya’s collectors union continues to sit on a protest outside the MC office demanding the traditional practice of collecting waste through carts to continue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/waste-collectors-society-agrees-to-work-under-chandigarh-mc-209778
09-02-2021||---||2,671 inoculated in Panchkula||Panchkula, February 8 As many as 2,452 frontline workers, including Border Security Force (BSF) and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel, were vaccinated in the district today. With this, the vaccine coverage rate stands at 73.6 per cent. The Health Department had a target to vaccinate 3,330 frontline workers. Earlier, only 216 frontline workers received the Covid vaccine. Meanwhile, 219 healthcare workers were also inoculated during the drive against a target of 170. The coverage rate for healthcare workers stood at 128.8 per cent. In total, 2,671 beneficiaries were vaccinated today. The overall target for the day was 3,500. The vaccination drive was held at 10 sites in the district. Additional Chief Secretary (Revenue and Disaster Management) Sanjeev Kaushal and Panchkula Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja were among the beneficiaries to have received the first dose of the Covid vaccine. No adverse effects following immunisation (AEFI) were reported today. So far, 4,009 healthcare and 2,668 frontline workers have been vaccinated in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-671-inoculated-in-panchkula-209780
09-02-2021||Chandigarh||Now, 2,400 to be vaccinated each day in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh Administration today decided to inoculate 2,400 beneficiaries at 12 existing vaccination sites so that the targeted population is covered in the stipulated time.At the vaccination sites, 200 beneficiaries will be called for on a daily basis. So far, the frontline workers’ turnout in the UT stands at 66.9 per cent, while the overall percentage of beneficiaries turnout is 45 per cent.Against the target of 1,151 beneficiaries, 382 were inoculated on Monday. In March, the focus of the drive will shift to the elderly (above 50 years). The data from the electoral rolls has been fetched by the Centre and will be uploaded on Co-WIN.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-2-400-to-be-vaccinated-each-day-in-chandigarh-209781
09-02-2021||Zirakpur||Top seeds enter tennis quarterfinals||Top seed Inaaya Mittal defeated Rhosyn William without conceding a single game 8-0 to book girls’ U-14 quarterfinal berth on the opening day of the Roots-AITA Challenge Series (III) U-14 National Ranking Championship here today. Second seed Sidhak Kaur also marched ahead by defeating Rasha Dhaliwal 8-6, while third seed Isheeta Midha blanked Vanshika Yadav 8-2. Akshita Vashisht also registered an easy 8-5 win over Ekam Kaur 8-5, whereas Kritika Katoch defeated Niharika Moudgil 8-6. In another one-sided match, Shrawasti Kundliya defeated Krittika Sharma 8-1 and Akshdha Sharma overpowered Reet Arora 8-4. Similarly, in the boys’ U-14 pre-quarterfinals, top seed Ranbir Singh overpowered Vansh Sharma 8-2 and second seed Anuj Pal thrashed Jageshwar Singh 8-2. Third seed Divyam Sharma blanked Anish Sharma 8-0, Aksh Jood defeated Sehajpreet Singh 8-1 and Devansh Parajuli blanked Abhinav Sangra by identical scores of 8-1. Kanav Bansal blanked Trishubh 8-2 and Daksh Kapoor defeated Aditya Garg by matching 8-2 margin, while Shourya Jishtu defeated Karen Singh 8-4. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/top-seeds-enter-tennis-quarterfinals-209783
09-02-2021||---||People fed up with ‘traditional parties’: AAP youth wing leader||Mohali, February 8People of Punjab are totally fed up with traditional parties, including the Akali Dal and the Congress, and they want to bring a change by rejecting these parties, which have only looted the state.This was stated by Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) co-president of the youth wing of Punjab and renowned singer Anmol Gagan Maan while campaigning for joint candidates of the AAP and the Azad Group in Mohali on Monday.Anmol Gagan, along with former Mayor and Azad Group head Kulwant Singh, campaigned in favour of joint candidates of the AAP and the Azad Group Surinder Singh Roda from Ward No. 32, Harjinder Kaur Sohana from Ward No. 33 and Sukhdev Singh Patwari from Ward No. 34 for the upcoming Mohali MC elections, at Sohana. Addressing the gathering, Anmol Gagan said joint candidates of the Azad Group and the AAP would register a record-breaking victory from all the seats in the Mohali MC elections. She appealed to people to vote for all joint candidates of the Azad Group and the AAP for the overall development of Mohali.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/people-fed-up-with-traditional-parties-aap-youth-wing-leader-209784
09-02-2021||---||Poll duty absenteeism to be dealt with strictly: Dayalan||Mohali, February 8In a democratic set-up, conduct of free and fair elections is one of the most important duties of the administration. An officer or official showing callousness towards the job or wilful absenteeism from duty will be dealt with strictly.This was stated by District Electoral Officer (DEO) Girish Dayalan in a meeting held here today to review the poll preparedness for the forthcoming civic body elections.Dayalan said in case of absenteeism from duty, the administration would write against the erring officer/official to the respective department’s administrative secretaries for strict departmental and penal action as well as to the State Election Commission for action under relevant Sections of the Representation of the People Act (RP Act) 1951 and the Punjab State Election ACT, 1994.Ex-BJP councillor sues returning officerMohali: Former BJP councillor Sahibee Anand has filed an appeal in the Punjab and Haryana High Court against the returning officer for displaying his name in the rejected candidates’ list even after getting the signatures of the proposer on his nomination papers from ward no. 12. Jagdeep Sehgal, Mohali SDM and Returning Officer of Ward No. 1-25, said they had got the signature of the proposer on the instructions of the High Court. The nomination papers had been rejected and now the matter was in the court. He said action would be taken in the case only on the directions of the court during next hearing on February 10. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/poll-duty-absenteeism-to-be-dealt-with-strictly-dayalan-209785
09-02-2021||---||Road widening work begins at Ram Darbar||Chandigarh, February 8 Residents have a reason to cheer as the long-pending road widening and carpeting work near ‘Tu hi Tu’ temple at Ram Darbar started today. Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma today formally inaugurated the work. On the occasion, local councillor Bharat Kumar, other prominent persons of the area and officials concerned of the Municipal Corporation were also present.  Approximately 2 km road will be widened and carpeted at a cost of Rs1.40 crore within three-months. Mayor asked engineers concerned to complete the road work within stipulated time. “First widening work will be competed following which carpeting work will be done,” said an official. City roads to be recarpeted in March A senior official of the Municipal Corporation Engineering Department said the road recarpeting work in different parts of the city would restart in March.  “All recarpeting work in the city has already been allotted. At present, weather is not conducive for recarpeting work. So, it will start in March,” the official added.  Various roads in the city are in a dire need of recarpeting. Residents have been complaining about potholed roads. First it was shortage of funds and later inclement weather hit plans of the Municipal Corporation to recarpet roads.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/road-widening-work-begins-at-ram-darbar-209788
09-02-2021||Chandigarh||YJR-A Cricket Academy log victory in opening tie||YJR-A Cricket Academy defeated Century Cricket Academy by 127 runs in the opening match of the 1st DP Azad U-17 Cup at IVCA Cricket Ground, Dera Bassi. Batting first, YJR-A Academy posted 262/5 in 40 overs. Shoumik Dhanday (47) was the main run scorer for the side, while Paras scored an unbeaten 45 runs. Saksham Thakur and Shubham Saini contributed 38 runs each, while Rajvir Singh (27) and Gyan Singh (20) were the other main contributors for the side. Harsh Kashyap and Shivdeep Singh took two wickets each for the bowling side. In reply, Century Cricket Academy scored 135/8 in 40 overs. Aksh (44), Shivdeep Singh (18) and Rahul (18) contributed in the chase. Paras (2/28), Ansh (2/28), Gyan Singh (1/11) and Varun Yadav (1/5) were the main wicket takers for the side. 7-wicket win for Mohali academy In another match, Cricketer Bash Academy, Mohali, defeated YJR-B Academy, Chandigarh, by seven wickets. Batting first, YJR-B academy scored 168 runs in 38.2 overs. In reply, the Mohali outfit posted 171/3 in 20.2 overs. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/yjr-a-cricket-academy-log-victory-in-opening-tie-209789
09-02-2021||Chandigarh||Shimla-Kalka trains nearly full||Almost all four pairs of special trains plying under Ambala division on the Kalka-Shimla section are running with nearly full occupancy.Shivalik Deluxe Special (04527) has an occupancy of more than 87% while Shimla-Kalka Special (04529) is more than 92% full. Shimla Festival Special (04517) has an occupancy of nearly 88% and Shimla Festival Special (04515) has over 95% occupancy.“Passengers are now feeling confident to undertake rail travel on this section. However, the Railways would like to request them to undertake rail travel with proper tickets,” said Hari Mohan (IRTS), Senior DCM/Coaching, Ambala Division. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shimla-kalka-trains-nearly-full-209790
09-02-2021||---||5 Mohali Golf Range trainees qualify for international meets||Chandigarh, February 8 Five trainees of the Mohali Golf Range have qualified for the Future Champions Golf (FCG) Callaway World Championship and the Future Champions Golf (FCG) International Championship to be held in Southern California (USA). The qualifying event was conducted at Forest Hill Golf & Country Club, Mohali. Mohul Dhingra, Sohraab Singh Talwar, Rabab Kahlon, Ojaswini Saraswat and Gairat Kaur Kahlon have been selected to play in the main tournament in different categories. Almost 50 junior and sub-junior golfers from Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh participated in the qualifier. Thereafter, a total of 10 boys and girls have qualified to play the most prestigious junior events in the USA. “Future Champions Golf is a passage to college golf in the USA- CAA and aims at inspiring junior golfers in the most positive and fun environment by hosting the highest quality tournaments at the affordable prices and has one of the world’s best junior golf training programs,” said Harmeet Kahlon, coach and Arjuna Awardee. Mohali Golf Range is one of the country’s largest standalone golf learning and practice facility conforming to international standards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-mohali-golf-range-trainees-qualify-for-international-meets-209791
09-02-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Women prisoners facing mental health challenges||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 8A first-of-its-type survey carried out at the Burail Jail by the District Legal Services Authority, Chandigarh, stresses the need for improvement of health facilities for the women prisoners.The survey was conducted to understand the problems, needs and facilities available for the women prisoners. The report says doctors of almost all specialties visit the jail and the physical health of the prisoners appears to be adequately taken care of. However, mental health services seem to be slightly lesser prioritised. Many women inmates are prone to mental health issues and may not even be aware of them.The report says that as per the prison manual, there are supposed to be two medical officers for 1,000 inmates. However, there is only one medical officer in the Model Jail. Women inmates have expressed that they need to speak to someone but they are unable to do so. Regular mental health assessment and counselling is required. An inmate reported that she was under stress due to social taboo and staying away from her family.The purpose of this survey was to make women prisoners aware about their rights with focus on securing their physical and mental health. During the survey, a total of 46 prisoners were interviewed. Of them, 10 are convicts and 36 are undertrial prisoners. Education, health, family, children and legal issues were discussed with them in the women ward of the prison complex.The survey team made many recommendations to improve the facilities. They have recommended that the women prisoners should be allowed to meet their parents, family members and relatives as this will help in their rehabilitation.The inmates raised various demands. An inmate said she was writing a book and she would like to get it published. Another requested for more books on the subject of yoga and meditation, and motivational material in the jail library. The women prisoners also said that they were not regularly updated about the status of their cases.One-stop solution centreNyay Seva Kendra, a one-stop solution centre for women prisoners, is going to be started at the Burail Jail from Wednesday. The multi-service centre will not only benefit the female prisoners and their children within the prison, but will also help dependent children residing in the community outside jail. Justice Jaswant Singh, Judge of Punjab and Haryana High Court and Executive Chairman of State Legal Services Authority, will inaugurate the centre to be run by various departments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/women-prisoners-facing-mental-health-challenges-209792
09-02-2021||Chandigarh||Firm MDs booked for Rs 51L fraud||Police return Seized jewelleryLalru: The police on Monday handed over 9.470 kg of silver jewellery worth Rs 3.36 lakh to Yamunanagar resident Vijay after it was seized at the Lalru bus stop without bills on February 2. The sales tax officer evaluated the items and issued a release order after completing the due procedure. TNS4 booked for stealing carMohali: The police have booked four unidentified persons for stealing a car in Sector 79 around 3:30 am on February 7. The miscreants came in a white car and broke the window of the car and towed away the vehicle. The police have recovered the CCTV footage, which shows the miscreants committing the crime. TNSKharar couple’s autopsy doneMohali: The post-mortem of the Kharar couple - Waris Qamruddin and his wife Varsha Chauhan - was conducted at Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, in Chandigarh after Qamruddin’s uncle and brother gave their consent on Monday. Qamruddin’s legal heir reached the city late on Sunday evening. The Kharar resident died in a car crash after stabbing his 32-year-old wife to death. TNSRBI financial literacy weekChandigarh: The RBI’s annual financial literacy week (FLW) 2021 with a focus on “Credit Discipline and Credit from Formal Institutions” will be observed from February 8 to 12. Regional Director of RBI, Haryana, Punjab and UT of Chandigarh, JK Pandey inaugurated the programme here on Monday in the presence of senior officials from NABARD, SIDBI, banks, the government and the media. TNSMan found dead in PanchkulaPanchkula: A man was found dead near the Majri chowk on Sunday night. The victim has been identified as Parkash, aged around 40 years. A resident of Ashiana Complex in Sector 25, Parkash begged at the Majri chowk light point. The police suspect he might have died after falling on a stone in an inebriated state. TNSTT training camp kicks offMohali: A training camp for preparing Punjab paddlers for the 82nd Senior National Table Tennis Championship started at the Sector 78 stadium on Monday. The 10-day camp was inaugurated by Atul Nanda, Punjab Advocate-General and president of the Punjab Table Tennis Association. Two sessions are held daily under the guidance of National Coach N Ravichandran. TNSCricket Assn begins campChandigarh: The Union Territory Cricket Association (UTCA) has started a four-day camp at the Sector 16 stadium to prepare for the upcoming Vijay Hazare Trophy. As many as 25 players are participating in this camp. Chandigarh will compete against West Bengal, Services, Jammu & Kashmir, Saurashtra and Haryana in the elite E group. The team will depart for Kolkata on February 11 to play group matches. The BCCI has clarified that the criteria for the tournament will be on the lines of the Syed Mushtaq Ali Tournament, where the team will be quarantined one week before the tournament. TNSTrials for senior women’s teamChandigarh: The Union Territory Cricket Association (UTCA) will organise trials to select senior women’s team at the Mahajan Cricket Ground, IT Park, on February 9. The selected team will participate in the upcoming Women’s Senior ODI tournament. The UTCA has called all 72 probables for the trials. Nagesh Gupta has been appointed as the coach and Indu Gupta has been retained as the manager. Raj Yadav will be the trainer and Harbir Kaur has been appointed as the team physiotherapist. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/firm-mds-booked-for-rs-51l-fraud-209809
09-02-2021||---||Azad Group nefarious alliance of selfish people, says Balbir Sidhu||Mohali, February 8Punjab Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Monday appealed to people of Mohali to elect the Congress candidates by a landslide victory in the Municipal Corporation elections to pave the way for the all-round development of the city.Balbir Sidhu, while campaigning in favour of the Congress candidates, said it was imperative for the party to take over the reins of the Municipal Corporation in order to break the stagnation in the development of the city and take it to new heights.Describing the Azad Group as a nefarious alliance of “selfish, self-centred and opportunistic” people, Sidhu said the so-called Azad Group was, in fact, a personal team of Sukhbir Singh Badal who had disguised these Akali office-bearers as “Independent Group” out of fear of public outrage over disrespect for religious texts and the questionable role of his party in the farm laws.Cops hold flag marchMohali: Ahead of the Mohali Municipal Corporation elections, DSP City-1 Gursher Singh Sandhu and SHO Shivdeep Singh Brar, along with 100 police personnel, took out a flag march from Mataur to Phase 1 in Mohali.Sharma seeks votes for SAD candidatesZirakpur: Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma campaigned for Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) candidate Nachhatar Singh in Ward No. 28 of Bhabat here on Monday. In Dera Bassi, Sharma campaigned in favour of Tony Rana of Mubarikpur village (Ward No. 4) and Bimlesh Rana from Ward No. 3. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/azad-group-nefarious-alliance-of-selfish-people-says-balbir-sidhu-209810
09-02-2021||---||32 challaned, 7 booked for drunken driving||Panchkula, February 8The city police checked over 1,400 vehicles during its night domination campaign conducted between Sunday night and early morning today.As many as 32 vehicles were challaned and three persons were arrested during the drive, which was undertaken following the orders of Panchkula Police Commissioner Saurabh Singh.“During the drive, 1,408 vehicles were checked — 372 two-wheelers, 652 four-wheelers, 197 light vehicles and 187 heavy vehicles. Of the total vehicles inspected during the campaign, 32 vehicles were challaned and three persons arrested in two cases,” the police said.Seven persons were booked for drunken driving and 14 for not wearing a mask.The police had put up nakas at 39 spots to inspect every vehicle passing through the area.At least three special nakas were installed to check drunken driving. Police officials conducted patrolling in their respective areas, checked hotels, dharamshalas, sarias, home stays, dhabas and ATMs during the drive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/32-challaned-7-booked-for-drunken-driving-209812
09-02-2021||Panchkula||7 more infected in Panchkula||Chandigarh sees 26 casesChandigarh: The city on Monday reported 26 fresh cases of Covid and one death, taking the case tally to 21,133 and the toll to 341. A total of 25 more patients recovered in the past 24 hours —TNSOne more Covid fatality in MohaliMohali: The district saw one more fatality due to Covid-19 in the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 373. Meanwhile, 24 fresh cases surfaced and 33 more recovered. So far, 19,637 positive cases have been reported in the district and of these, 18,851 have been cured of the virus. There are 413 active cases in the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/7-more-infected-in-panchkula-209814
