11-02-2021||Chandigarh||COVID-19: 13 new cases in Chandigarh||Chandigarh on Thursday reported 13 new coronavirus cases, taking the infection count to 21,184, according to a medical bulletin. The death of a 78-year-old man took the toll to 344, as per the bulletin. There are 140 active COVID-19 cases in the union territory as of now, it said.A total of 30 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured people to 20,700, it said.A total of 2,30,418 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 2,08,291 tested negative while reports of 122 samples were awaited, as per the bulletin. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-13-new-cases-in-chandigarh-210970
11-02-2021||---||Panchkula leads Haryana in citizen feedback component||Panchkula, February 10The Panchkula Municipal Corporation leads Haryana in terms of the maximum citizen participation in the ongoing Swachh Survekshan-2021.It is one of the key components of the cleanliness rankings for evaluating the performance of a civic body.As many as 2.01 lakh people have submitted their feedback on cleanliness and sanitation in the city so far, according to an official press note.Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal said the enthusiasm exhibited by citizens in submitting their inputs for the cleanliness survey would give an edge to the Panchkula Municipal Corporation over other cities in securing a place among the cleanest cities in 2021. Of the 6,000 marks in the cleanliness rankings, the citizen feedback carries 1,800 marks, which is 30 per cent of the total weightage. Panchkula was declared the 56th cleanest city in the country in the Swachh Survekshan-2020.However, only 24,941 citizens had participated in the cleanliness survey last year.In 2019, it stood at the 71st spot. Its rank was 142 in 2018.The local civic body has time and again urged the citizens to give a positive feedback and help the corporation obtain a better rank.The city was recently declared open defecation-free (ODF) ++ for the third consecutive year by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs. However, Chandigarh Tribune had subsequently highlighted the poor state of toilets in the city, with citizens still defecating in the open.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-leads-haryana-in-citizen-feedback-component-210550
11-02-2021||---||BJP nominee’s husband ends life||Mohali, February 10The husband of a BJP candidate, Munni Devi, who is contesting from ward number 37 of the Municipal Corporation, committed suicide at the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited office in Phase I here today.Som Pal, 42, a Class IV employee, hanged himself to death from a ceiling fan at the office around 8.30 am. No suicide note was found on him, the police said. The deceased, a father of four, belonged to Moradabad in UP and was staying in a rented accommodation at Mataur.In her statement to the police, Munni Devi alleged that a former Mohali councillor recently beat up her husband and was pressuring him to make her withdraw from the poll fray.The police took the body in their possession and sent it to the mortuary of the Civil Hospital, Phase VI. Inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC have been initiated. “We are investigating the matter and necessary action will be taken,” said Shivdeep Singh Brar, SHO, Phase I police station.Meanwhile, Madan Shaunki, the BJP candidate from ward number 50, alleged that a few Congress workers, including women, attacked him on Tuesday while he was campaigning in his ward. He saved himself by jumping into a running rickshaw and fleeing the spot.Kulwinder Kaur, another BJP candidate from the nearby ward, also alleged that a few Congress workers tried to attack her in her house and ransacked her campaigning tent. The BJP candidate from ward number 43, Rekha, too alleged that a few Congress workers ransacked her campaigning tent on Monday night.District BJP president Sukhwinder Singh Goldy said, “Congress workers are threatening our candidates daily. Our offices are being ransacked. Many candidates have informed me that their campaigning tents are being ransacked by miscreants who claim themselves to be farmers. We have asked the Mohali SSP to check this vandalism, but nothing has been done till now.”‘Was being pressured to make me back out’Sources said the BJP candidate from ward number 37, Munni Devi, indicated the role of her house owner and a councillor in putting pressure on her husband to make her withdraw from the fray.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjp-nominees-husband-ends-life-210551
11-02-2021||Saurabh Malik||HC warns CHB staff against delay in transferring flats||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 10The Punjab and Haryana High Court has warned the Chandigarh Housing Board of possible action against it officials in case of inordinate and unjustified delay in transferring of dwelling units despite completion of all requirements. The direction came as the High Court Division Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh also called for the details of matters pending before the board.The Bench was hearing a petition filed by Pooja Mehta and another petitioner against the board and another petitioner. Appearing before the Bench through videoconferencing, counsel for the petitioners submitted that they had entered into a lease dated August 20, 2018, regarding a dwelling unit in the category of “economically weaker section” in Sector 63, Chandigarh. Despite the issuance of an NOC and various representations made to the housing board office, the dwelling unit was not transferred in their name. Their counsel further submitted that hyper-technical objections were being raised by the housing board staff one after the other.Issuing a notice of motion to the respondents, the Bench asked the housing board to apprise the court whether other cases of similar nature were pending before it. In case of pending matters, the board was also asked to furnish the details.The case will now come up for hearing next week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hc-warns-chb-staff-against-delay-in-transferring-flats-210552
11-02-2021||---||Rs 17L jewellery, Rs 70K stolen from house||Mohali, February 10The Balongi police have registered a case of theft against unknown persons for stealing jewellery worth Rs17 lakh and Rs70,000 cash from a house on the seventh floor in a society near ‘Patiala Ki Rao’ on Monday night.Victim Dr Chandan and his wife claimed that they left the house in the morning and when they returned in the evening, the door of the house was open and an almirah containing jewellery and cash was ransacked and the valuables missing. The police were checking CCTV footage from the nearby buildings. Balongi police in-charge Sarvjit Singh said the police were investigating the matter.Four held for battery theftIn another incident, the police nabbed four suspects involved in the theft of batteries from mobile phone towers in a market in Balongi. The police have recovered four batteries, an auto-rickshaw and a rod from the suspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs-17l-jewellery-rs-70k-stolen-from-house-210554
11-02-2021||---||Maximum temp may increase||Chandigarh, February 10The maximum temperature is expected to increase further in the city.According to the Met Department, the maximum temperature was 24.9°C today. It is likely to rise to 26°C tomorrow and may remain the same for the next two days.The minimum temperature is also expected to rise marginally. It was 10.2°C today and may rise to 11°C by Friday. The weatherman said the sky was likely to be partly cloudy on Thursday. On Friday, it was expected to be generally cloudy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/maximum-temp-may-increase-210555
11-02-2021||---||Take the jab, Badnore on fight against Covid||Chandigarh, February 10During a meeting of the Administrator’s Advisory Council, suggestions poured in from members regarding the regularisation of constructions outside Lal Dora, converting plots from leasehold to freehold, reducing the water tariff and setting up a cow commission.The meeting was held after a gap of 17 months. The members also discussed allowing nursing homes in residential areas and providing the industry with the facility to convert from leasehold to freehold.UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore appealed to the citizens to take advantage of the vaccines being provided free of cost by the Centre. He mentioned how the battle against Covid was fought with coordination among various agencies in the tricity.The Administrator complimented the members of the sub-committees of the council for giving their recommendations. He appealed to the members to give their views on the recommendation in writing to the Administrator.CB Ojha, Chief Engineer, gave a presentation on completed projects such as houses in medical college and restoration of Capitol Complex. He also mentioned about several upcoming projects such as a community hall, an international centre, police housing and a multi-level parking at the District Courts Complex. Former MP Pawan Kumar Bansal appreciated the efforts of the Administration in restoring the buildings in the Capitol Complex.Former MP Satyapal Jain requested for more houses for the urban poor, regularisation of the constructions outside Lal Dora, setting up a Mazdoor Bhawan and enhancing the old-age pension.He demanded that need-based changes carried out by the allottees of the houses by the CHB be regularised by giving one-time relaxation on the Delhi pattern.Meanwhile, the Administrator informed the members that they would hire a private consultant to study a model of a village in UT for the regularisation of constructions outside the Lal Dora.Mayor Ravikant Sharma demanded that RLA funds should be passed on to the Municipal Corporation and more grant-in-aids be given to the MC for developmental works in villages.Local BJP president Arun Sood demanded that the shop owners should be allowed to cover the courtyardCongress Councillor Devinder Singh Babla demanded that plots be converted from leasehold to freehold and Chandigarh Housing Board’s households should be allowed additional construction.BJP leader Sanjay Tandon stated that the proposal for outer-ring road should be expedited and stray dogs’ pound/shelter be constructed.Justice Jasbir Singh demanded that Lokayukt, Police Complaint Authority and Human Rights Commission should be set up in the city.Meanwhile, a senior UT official said the proposal to set up nursing homes in the residential areas would be sent to the sub-committee on health for suggestions. Backed by local MP Kirron Kher, the sub-committee on urban planning had already rejected the proposal.‘Will hire private consultant’The Administrator informed the Advisory Council members that they would hire a private consultant to study the model of a village in the UT for the regularisation of constructions outside the Lal Dora.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/take-the-jab-badnore-on-fight-against-covid-210556
11-02-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Don’t give Power Dept in pvt hands, say two Chandigarh ex-MPs||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 10Two former MPs — Harmohan Dhawan and Pawan Kumar Bansal — have opposed the privatisation of the profit-making UT Electricity Department.During a meeting of the Administrator’s Advisory Council here today, Dhawan said for the past five years, the department had been making profits. He said it earned the record revenue of Rs258 crore last year.The Bhakra-Beas Management Board (BBMB) had been supplying 3.5 per cent of its power generated to the UT at just 17 paise per unit, he said. After being privatised, the UT was unlikely to get the supply at this rate. He said Rs157 crore was deposited as security with the department and the Administration must explain how the amount would be utilised. Before privatisation, the Administration should also take suggestions from 2.47 lakh consumers.Meanwhile, AICC Treasurer Pawan Kumar Bansal said there was no need to privatise the well-managed Electricity Department. He said the privatisation would burden the consumers.On a petition filed by the UT Powermen Union, a Division Bench of the Punjab and Haryana High Court had on December 1, 2020, stayed the tendering process regarding the privatisation of the department.However, On January 12, the Supreme Court had stayed the order of the High Court and on January 14, the UT Administration resumed the sale of tender for the privatisation process.Six companies — Sterlite Power, ReNew Wing Energy, NESCL (NTPC), Adani Transmission Ltd, Tata Power and Torrent Power — have submitted their bids for privatisation of the department.However, the Supreme Court had yesterday referred the case back to the High Court and asked it to decide in three months.An official of the department said the bids could be opened this month.Opening bidsAn official of the Electricity Department said the bids could be opened this month and a meeting would be called with representatives of the bidders before opening the tenders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dont-give-power-dept-in-pvt-hands-say-two-chandigarh-ex-mps-210557
11-02-2021||---||Former bank manager, firm owner held guilty||Chandigarh, February 10A CBI court has held a former bank official of Punjab and Sind Bank and a Chandigarh-based construction firm owner guilty in connection with an eight-year-old fraud case worth crores.Dr Sushil Kumar Garg, Special Judge, CBI Court, will pronounce the quantum of sentence on February 12.Inderjit Singh, former manager of Punjab and Sind Bank, and Tarsem Lal Singla, director of M/S Aakriti Construction, were held guilty under Sections 120-B, 420, 468 and 471 of the IPC and Section 13(1)(d) read with 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act.The court has acquitted another accused, GS Batra, who was also a former bank official.The CBI, New Delhi, had registered the case in June 2013 following a complaint received from the manager of the bank in New Delhi alleging a fraud of Rs3.50 crore. The case was registered against two bank officials, Inderjit Singh and GS Batra, along with Tarsem Lal Singla.During the investigation, the CBI conducted raids and searches at various places and the bank lockers of the accused at the Sector 47 branch of the bank. The CBI had found incriminating documents and bogus guarantees allegedly used by the accused. The CBI had filed a chargesheet in November, 2013.Public prosecutor KP Singh argued that the accused in connivance with each caused huge loss to the bank by using bogus documents in the name of construction at Baddi in Himachal Pradesh. The CBI had claimed in the chargesheet that Singla had taken a loan from Punjab and Sind Bank to set up a hospital in Baddi town in Himachal Pradesh.One acquittedThe court has acquitted another accused, GS Batra, who was also a former bank official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/former-bank-manager-firm-owner-held-guilty-210558
11-02-2021||---||Balbir Sidhu releases Cong’s 34-point election manifesto||Mohali, February 10Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu released a 34-point election manifesto of the Congress for the Mohali Municipal Corporation elections to be held on February 14.Releasing the manifesto, he said the Congress, if voted to power, would implement the need-based policy changes for residential houses to meet the pending demand of the people of Mohali and allow construction of first floor in commercial booths and bay shops.Sidhu said a new bus stand linking the present one would be constructed at a suitable place. A new civil hospital would also be constructed in the city. In addition to upgrading the existing government schools in Mohali city, new model schools would also be opened.He said sports stadiums functioning under the GMADA would be brought under the purview of the Municipal Corporation and all facilities of these sports stadiums would be provided to young children and senior citizens at nominal fees. Apart from upgrading Mohali’s sole fire station, new fire brigade centres would be set up as per the requirement load.To check crime, CCTV cameras would be installed at all important places. This would also help in controlling the traffic, he maintained. Re-carpeting of roads would be done with new technique so that the level of roads remains the same. A new state-of-the-art gaushala at a land measuring 10.50 acres would be set up by an NGO.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/balbir-sidhu-releases-congs-34-point-election-manifesto-210559
11-02-2021||Chandigarh||Nyay Seva Kendra opened for women inmates at Burail jail||Justice Jaswant Singh, a Judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court and Executive Chairman of the State Legal Services Authority, Chandigarh, today inaugurated Nyay Seva Kendra at the Model Jail, Burail.This one-stop solution centre for women prisoners has been set up in the female barracks of Model Jail by the District Legal Services Authority, UT, Chandigarh under a campaign aimed at enhancing legal services for women inmates and their accompanying children.Vijay Singh, District and Sessions Judge, Chandigarh; Mahavir Singh, Member Secretary, State Legal Services Authority, Chandigarh; Ombir Singh, IG Prisons, Chandigarh; Virat, Joint IG-cum-Superintendent of Jail; and Ashok Kumar Mann, Chief Judicial Magistrate-cum-Secretary, District Legal Services Authority, Chandigarh, were also present on the occasion.Justice Jaswant Singh, said: “Nyay Seva Kendra is the only integrated centre in the country that is bringing together five different departments to serve the female prisoners and their children.”This centre will not only look after the needs of the prisoners while in the Jail, but efforts will also be made to link them to suitable rehabilitation services after their release from the prison.Another facility that was visited today by Justice Jaswant Singh was a “Library-cum-Reading Room”. Some female prisoners had expressed the need for a library-cum-reading room in the jail. Ombir Singh said when the matter of the library was brought to the attention of Justice Jaswant Singh, he had expressed his desire to take up the issue with the prison authorities urgently.The centre will be run with the help of various departments. It will be functional from Monday to Friday between 9 am and 12 noon. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nyay-seva-kendra-opened-for-women-inmates-at-burail-jail-210560
11-02-2021||Mohali||Mohali gears up for smooth conduct of poll||Full preparations have been made for a peaceful conduct of the Municipal Corporation and Nagar Panchayat elections, said Mohali SSP Satinder Singh.“Strict checking of vehicles is being done. The personnel posted at the check posts have been directed to pay special attention with regard to cash, liquor and other prohibited items,” he said.The Mohali Additional District Magistrate has exercised his powers under Section 144 of CrPC 1973 (Act No. 2 of 1974). Orders have been issued to ban the carrying of firearms, ammunition, explosives, flammable items and sharp weapons.“As per Section 110 of the Punjab State Election Commission Act 1994, 48 hours before the election, public meetings or conventions and the movement of outsiders will be strictly followed. Unauthorised people around will not be allowed,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-gears-up-for-smooth-conduct-of-poll-210561
11-02-2021||Chandigarh||15 infected, 1 death in Chandigarh||31 new cases in Mohali distMohali: Thirty-one new Covid cases were detected in the district on Wednesday. As many as 34 more patients recovered in the past 24 hours. Among the new cases, 28 were reported from Mohali (urban), two from Kharar and one from Dera Bassi. TNS7 fresh cases in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Wednesday reported seven fresh coronavirus cases, taking the overall tally to 10,628. The Covid toll remained at 147. While 10,392 patients have recovered from the disease so far, 89 cases are still active. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/15-infected-1-death-in-chandigarh-210562
11-02-2021||Sandeep Rana||For now, MC to collect fee through POS machines||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 10The Municipal Corporation will collect door-to-door waste lifting charges of January from Sector 1 to 30 through point of sale (POS) machines this month.The civic body has procured 150 POS machines for the purpose. “For the time being, we will collect the charges through these machines. In the near future, we are planning to charge it through water bills,” said a senior MC official.The civic body had started waste segregation at source and collection through its garage-lifting vehicles in the middle of December in Sector 1-30 under the first phase. It had declared that from January, the civic body would itself collect the charges, which were earlier being received by private waste collectors.The corporation will soon start the second phase of the campaign in other sectors.About 640 waste collectors had earlier registered under the MC to work as collectors or drivers in its vehicles. The civic body has a list of over 1,200 collectors operating in the city.“Since the collectors’ society agreed to our plans recently, we hope to start the second phase soon so as to cover the entire city,” said an official concerned.As per a notification issued by the MC Commissioner and displayed on the corporation website, Rs50 per month will be charged for collection of waste from EWS houses and Rs80 per month in case of LIG and MIG flats and five-marla houses. Houses measuring above five marla and less than one kanal and HIG flats will have to monthly pay Rs100, Rs110, Rs120 and Rs130 for ground, first, second and third floor, respectively. Commercial establishments will be charged between Rs50 and Rs250 per month as per their category. The charges were approved by the MC House.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/for-now-mc-to-collect-fee-through-pos-machines-210568
11-02-2021||---||Cricket facilities upgraded at Tau Devi Lal Stadium||Panchkula, February 10A newly laid Astro-turf cricket pitch and a computerised bowling machine were inaugurated at Tau Devi Lal Cricket Stadium in Sector 3 today.Nayanpal Rawat, MLA from Prithla and Chairman of Haryana State Warehousing Corporation (HSWC), inaugurated the new facilities.The HSWC has taken the stadium on lease from the Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) for a period of three years.Besides, floodlights have also been installed at the practice nets. The HSVP will re-lay Grade-1 grass in the entire stadium for which the old grass will be uprooted.Outstanding players will be given incentives such as free coaching and free sports kits. Regular coaching at the stadium will begin on April 1 and registration of players from March 15.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cricket-facilities-upgraded-at-tau-devi-lal-stadium-210573
11-02-2021||Chandigarh||Elderly woman’s chain snatched||Two held for snatchingChandigarh: Two youths have been arrested in a snatching case. The complainant, Ashok Kumar (28), who owns a mobile shop in Nayagaon, stated that he was going home on a bicycle around 6 pm on February 9, when three snatchers targeted him on the road between the Khuda Lahora bridge and Dhanas. The police arrested Rohit, alias Pintu (20), and Vikas, alias Kedi (20), both of Khuda Lahora, for the crime and recovered the snatched items. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/elderly-womans-chain-snatched-210574
11-02-2021||Chandigarh||MCM DAV Alumni donate Rs 1L to PGI||Athletics meet on February 14Chandigarh: The Chandigarh Athletic Association will organise the Chandigarh North District and South District Athletics Meet at the Sector 7 Sports Complex on February 14. Athletes residing or studying in Chandigarh are eligible to participate in this meet. The athletes are advised to submit their entries with the organisers before February 12. The championship will be held under north district (for athletes residing or studying in Sectors 1 to 30 or adjoining villages of Chandigarh) and south district (for athletes residing or studying in Sector 31 or onwards or adjoining villages of Chandigarh). Those born between April 15, 2007, and April 14, 2009, will be eligible to participate in the U-14 category, while those born between April 15, 2005, and April 14, 2007, will be eligible to participate in the U-16 category. TNSApply for UK programmeChandigarh: The application window for the UK Government’s Chevening Gurukul programme for Leadership and Excellence for 2021-22 is now open. The candidates can apply online for the short-term fellowship programme by March 22. The two-month fully-funded residential course will run at the University of Oxford. Mid-career professionals having a minimum of 10-year work experience in diverse backgrounds can apply. Twelve professionals will be selected for the programme. Deputy High Commissioner Andrew Ayre said: “Gurukul fellowship offers a unique and exciting opportunity for the best professionals in India to address the issues being faced by leaders in all fields.” TNSAnuj, Shrawasti win tennis titlesMohali: Anuj Pal defeated Divyam Sharma in straight sets 6-3, 6-3 to win the boys’ U-14 title on the concluding day of the Roots-AITA Challenge Series (CS3) National Ranking Tennis Championship at Zirakpur. In the girls’ U-14 final, Shrawasti Kundliya ousted Isheeta Midha 6-4 6-3. TNSLivewire Coaching Centre log victoryChandigarh: Livewire Coaching Centre (LWCC) defeated Panthers Cricket Club by three runs in the ongoing My India-One India T20 Cricket Cup on Wednesday. Batting first, LWCC posted 155/8 in 20 overs. In reply, Panthers scored 152/8 in 20 overs. TNSyouth found dead in Mohali hotelMohali: A youth of Mundi Kharar reportedly committed suicide by consuming a poisonous substance in a hotel near the Kamla market here. The youth has been identified as Virender Pal Singh. The police have found no suicide note on him. Virender, a realtor, is survived by his wife and 8-year-old girl. He had contested the last Kharar Municipal Council elections. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mcm-dav-alumni-donate-rs-1l-to-pgi-210575
