12-02-2021||Chandigarh||COVID-19 new cases in Chandigarh||Chandigarh recorded 19 new coronavirus cases on Friday, taking the infection count to 21,203, according to a medical bulletin issued here.No COVID-19 related death took place on Friday. The death toll stands at 344, it said.There are 142 active cases so far, the bulletin shows.A total of 17 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the overall recoveries to 20,717, the bulletin said.A total of 2,31,652 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 2,09,506 have tested negative while reports of 90 samples were awaited, it added. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-new-cases-in-chandigarh-211480
12-02-2021||Chandigarh||Bank robbery cracked, Mohali resident arrested||A 34-year-old Mohali resident, who had lost his job during the Covid-induced lockdown, has been arrested by the local police for allegedly looting Rs8.65 lakh from a branch of Chandigarh State Cooperative Bank in Sector 61.UT SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal said Harjot Singh, a resident of Phase III-A, had been arrested. “We have recovered Rs8.48 lakh, an air pistol (toy gun) and a Swift car. The remaining Rs17,000 was spent by the suspect,” the SSP said.Was in the habit of taking cough syrupThe police claimed that the suspect was in the habit of taking a cough syrup and often used to visit the Sector 61 market. “During the lockdown, he lost his job due to which he was in need of money, which led him to commit crime,” the police said.He said the suspect robbed the bank using an air pistol after which he escaped in his car, which was parked nearby. The suspect is a bachelor in pharmacy and was into a sales and marketing job. The police claimed that the suspect was habitual of taking a cough syrup and often used to visit the Sector 61 market. “During the lockdown, he lost his job due to which he was in need of money, which led him to crime,” the police said.During the investigation, the police found that the CCTV cameras of the bank were not working. Bank employees were questioned about the description of the looter. They felt the person may be known in the area.“Suspected persons, drug addicts as well as previous convicts in such type of crimes in the adjoining area were interrogated and CCTV footage of adjoining sectors was scrutinised, which helped in identifying the suspect,” the police said.The suspect has no criminal past. He was produced in a court and sent to two-day police remand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bank-robbery-cracked-mohali-resident-arrested-211097
12-02-2021||Chandigarh||Centre forms panel for Panjab University governance reforms||In a major development, the Government of India has constituted an 11-member high-level committee for recommending governance reforms in Panjab University (PU) in the light of the National Education Policy, 2020.The committee members are the Vice-Chancellor, Central University of Punjab, Bathinda, and Member, UGC; the Director, IIT, Ropar; the Director, IIM, Amritsar; Prof KN Pathak, former PU Vice-Chancellor; the PU Vice-Chancellor; a nominee of the Chairman, UGC; a Vice-Chancellor of a state government university to be nominated by the Punjab Chief Minister; the DPI (Colleges), Punjab; the Director (Higher Education), UT Administration; a nominee of the PU Chancellor; and the PU Registrar, Member Secretary.A document in this regard was submitted during a hearing of a case between former senators and the PU at the Punjab and Haryana High Court today. The committee, which was ordered to be formed on February 8, will submit its recommendations within two months. It has been directed that the committee will elicit views of different stakeholders, study the recommendations made by different committees in the past and examine the current best practices within the state and the country as far as governance is concerned.Reason for the formation of the committeeThe development is important in terms of the existing scenario wherein the institution is being run without a Senate or Syndicate, albeit for the first time. The Government of India has submitted that a sub-committee on governance headed by Justice (Dr) Bharat Bhushan Prasoon (retd) was constituted in April 2016. A report on essential reforms related to the Senate, the Syndicate and the financial arrangements in June 2018 were suggested. However, no further development took place on these suggestions.“As compared to the Central universities, IITs, IIMs and the state government-run universities, the size (91 members in the Senate) and the composition as well as the process of constituting the Senate and the Syndicate in the PU is far more complex, time-consuming and cost-intensive. Adding to this is the manner in which deans are elected rather than being chosen for academic excellence,” stated the circular.It further said, “If the PU has to achieve its innate potential and grow into a front-ranking university, it is imperative that it should streamline its governance system. A lean and efficient governance structure is needed. Against this backdrop, it is felt desirable that a high-level committee of experts be constituted to examine various facets of the existing governance structure and recommend the way forward.”Letter by PUTAThe document submitted in the High Court also referred to a letter wherein the PU teachers’ body had demanded governance reforms. “The Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) had also given a representation to the then Union Home Minister on September 7, 2016, for initiating governance reforms.”No changes since 1947It has been further stated, “The PU is one of the oldest universities in India. The Panjab University Act 1947 is based on the Indian University Act 1904. Ever since its inception, no major changes have been made in its governing structure.”“Over the past 10 years, there have been numerous attempts to rethink the way the PU can be more effectively and efficiently managed. A team of the National Assessment and Accreditation Council visited the university in 2015 and made a specific observation that its governance structure, especially in the terms of appointment of faculty deans, should be revisited.”SecretariatThe PU campus will be the secretariat of the committee. The PU Registrar will act as Member Secretary and will convene meetings and ensure its smooth functioning.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/centre-forms-panel-for-panjab-university-governance-reforms-211105
12-02-2021||Mohali||Now, realtor blocks Siswan choe pipes||Even as the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the state government to remove construction debris from the Siswan choe at Bharoujian village, the realtor has blocked the pipes laid for the passage of the choe water, posing a threat to the fields of farmers in the area.The NGT orderThe Drainage Department had constructed bundhs to check damage to roads during floods. The realtor has blocked two pipes laid by the department for the passage of the water. The realtor has also removed pipes on the other side of the road. Besides, the road on one side has also been blocked for vehicular traffic.Earlier, two pipes each were placed beneath the road at some distance from each other. The pipes were largely choked, resulting in obstruction to the flow of the choe water. The NGT, in its recent order, had recommended that culverts of suitable size be constructed at point A and B. The department concerned could engage some expert agency to carry out a study to design the culverts. The cost of the construction of the culverts shall be borne by the realtor.To avoid environmental damage in the future, the choe shall be restored to its original course as was the case before the construction of the project.Manjinder Singh, a resident of Bharoujian village in the New Chandigarh area of Mohali district, who had filed a complaint with the NGT, said the realtor had now blocked the two 5-foot-wide pipes with earth around 10 days ago, which would cause soil erosion in the area and cause damage to their fields during floods.GMADA Chief Administrator Pradeep Kumar Agrawal said the Drainage Department had asked the realtor to act as per the NGT order. He said the realtor would have to carry the work as per the norms of the department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-realtor-blocks-siswan-choe-pipes-211113
12-02-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 13 new cases, one death||Two die in MohaliMohali: Two fatalities were witnessed due to Covid-19 during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 376 in the district. Meanwhile, 31 fresh cases were reported till Thursday evening while 27 more patients have been cured. Among the new cases 30 came from Mohali (urban) and one from Gharuan. There are 397 active cases. —TNS8 fresh cases in Panchkula distpanchkula: The district on Thursday reported eight fresh coronavirus cases, taking the overall tally to 10,636. The Covid toll remained at 147. While 10,401 patients have recovered from the disease so far, 88 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 97.79 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-13-new-cases-one-death-211118
12-02-2021||Chandigarh||Functioning of CHB under judicial lens||The functioning of the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) today came under the judicial scanner with the Punjab and Haryana High Court asserting that it was unclear whether decisions were taken on the whims of board officials.The assertion by the High Court Division Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh came on a petition filed against the UT Adviser and other respondents by Vinod Kumar Bansal.Appearing before the Bench through videoconferencing, the counsel for the petitioner contended that an initial order cancelling the allotment of a dwelling unit passed by the CHB was unsustainable as the conveyance deed had already been executed between the parties.The counsel further submitted that the Chief Executive Officer lacked the power to cancel the allotment after the conveyance deed was duly executed. Yet, the officer proceeded to cancel the same. The petitioner had to fight a long legal battle for the restoration of the flat.But the Housing Board, while restoring the same, imposed Rs41,20,372 as restoration charges. Later, this amount was reduced to Rs3,74,579. It was in view of a policy decision that revival charges would be levied at the rate of 2 per cent only.“From the facts, it is not clear whether the CHB is functioning on the basis of a consistent policy or decisions taken by it are on whims of the officials,” the Bench asserted, while issuing a notice of motion to the Adviser and other respondents.Before parting with the matter, the Bench asserted the counsel for the petitioner would be at a liberty to effect service on the respondents through electronic means such as email and WhatsApp. The Bench directed the filing of reply, if any, before the next date of hearing, the Bench also directed the maintenance of status quo in the matter.The High Court has already warned the CHB of possible action against its officials in case of inordinate and unjustified delay in transferring the dwelling units despite completion of all requirements. The direction came as the Bench also called for the details of matters pending before the CHB.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/functioning-of-chb-under-judicial-lens-211119
12-02-2021||Chandigarh||Board not to construct houses, courtesy high land cost||High cost of land has proved a stumbling block for eligible residents to own a dream house in the city under the “housing for all” scheme of the Centre.The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has decided not to construct houses under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana in the city.Centre informedYashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB, said they had informed the Centre that they were unable to construct the houses under the PMAY due to the high cost of land in Chandigarh.Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), CHB, said they had informed the Centre that they were unable to construct the houses under the PMAY due to the high cost of land in the UT.The CEO said eligible applicants had now been asked to take benefit under the credit-linked subsidy scheme from the bank for buying a house.The Centre had launched the scheme in June 2015 to provide housing for all in the urban areas by 2022. Being a state-level nodal agency for the implementation of the scheme, the CHB had carried out a demand survey on EWS, LIG and MIG households in the urban areas of Chandigarh. The scheme was launched in March 20, 2017, in the city.A total of 1.27 lakh people had applied under the scheme. When the board carried out the scrutiny of the applications, nearly 1 lakh applications were rejected.After a survey, which included door-to-door verification, the Chandigarh Housing Board had initially found only 444 applicants eligible for flats under the scheme.However, the Centre directed the Chandigarh Housing Board to review all rejected cases again, following which physical verification of the rejected applicants was done and finally, 10,132 applicants were found eligible under the scheme.The UT Administration had written to the Ministry of Home Affairs to acquire 104 acres at Rs3.1 crore per acre for the construction of 10,132 flats under the scheme.However, the Ministry of Home Affairs had informed the UT that no land would be given below the market rate. As per the collector rates, the cost of one acre would be nearly Rs30 crore, which is too high for the scheme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/board-not-to-construct-houses-courtesy-high-land-cost-211121
12-02-2021||Chandigarh||SCs want quota in Panjab University Senate||The National Scheduled Castes Alliance, an organisation involved in the welfare of the Scheduled Caste community, wrote to the Vice-President of India, Venkaiah Naidu, who is also the Panjab University Chancellor, regarding the reservation of seats for the community in the PU Senate.The term of the Senate ended on October 31 last year and the term of the Syndicate also ended on December 31. The university is now functioning without a governing body. The Senate, which is one of the PU governing bodies, consists of around 90 members out of which half are elected through voting. The Senate elections are being conducted in Panjab University for the past several years.Paramjit Singh Kainth, president of the National Scheduled Castes Alliance, said: “The Senate has had an inadequate representation of SCs and STs. It can be easily ascertained that the representation of the SC community has been neglected for decades whereas the number of students of the community have been increasing at the university.”“It is the duty of the university administration to provide adequate representation to the SC students. Recent cases of social boycott and discrimination throughout Punjab have evoked a sense of fear among students belonging to the community regarding safeguards for their rights at the university level without adequate representation in the administrative body,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/scs-want-quota-in-panjab-university-senate-211123
12-02-2021||Chandigarh||No stopping vendors at Rock Garden, lake||Vendors selling water bottles and snacks continue to play hide and seek with the MC’s enforcement staff at the no-vending zone in Rock Garden.In 2019, the Punjab and Haryana High Court had declared Sector 1 to 6 and 17 as no-vending zones. Thereby, vendors were removed from the sectors.However, some of the small vendors could still be spotted selling water bottles and some edibles near Rock Garden. Whenever a team of the MC raids the spots, they run away, only to come back as soon as the team leaves.Though vendors were given alternative sites, they continue to encroach upon the government land here.“Earlier, they were selling items from near the walking track at Sukhna Lake. But after the intervention of the police, the vendors were removed. Now they sit on roadsides near the lake parking lot. Besides, some sit outside Rock Garden,” said a resident.However, Rakesh Kumar, a tourist from Gurgaon, said: “Some water bottle sellers should be allowed here as tourists need it, especially in summer.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-stopping-vendors-at-rock-garden-lake-211124
12-02-2021||Chandigarh||Youth gets 20-year RI for raping minor||A UT Special Court today sentenced a youth to 20 years of rigorous imprisonment (RI) for raping a 13-year-old girl.Dr Gagan Geet Kaur, Additional Sessions Judge and Special Judge, Fast Track Court, Chandigarh, pronounced the quantum of sentence after finding the accused guilty under Section 4 of the POCSO Act. He was also sentenced to six-month RI under Section 506 of the IPC. The court also imposed a fine of Rs10,000 on the convict.Court imposes Rs10K fine on the convictDr Gagan Geet Kaur, Additional Sessions Judge and Special Judge, Fast Track Court, Chandigarh, pronounced the quantum of sentence after finding the accused guilty under Section 4 of the POCSO Act. He was also sentenced to six-month RI under Section 506 of the IPC. The court also imposed a fine of Rs10,000 on the convict.The police had registered a case against the accused on April 5, 2019, on the girl’s complaint under Sections 376(3) and 506 of the IPC and Section 4 of the POCSO Act. The police later filed a challan against the accused.In her complaint, the girl alleged that the accused raped her on April 1, 2019, when she was alone at her house as her parents were away for some work. She alleged that the 21-year-old youth made sexual relations with her against her consent. The accused, who was the victim’s neighbour, also threatened her of dire consequences if she revealed it to anyone. The girl, however, disclosed the matter to her mother when she returned the house.The Judge rejected the claims of the defence lawyer that the girl had falsely implicated the youth.The Judge, in the order, said: “There is nothing to suggest on record why a 13-year-old girl would falsely implicate the accused. In the light of her statement and facts, this court finds the testimony of the victim reliable, trustworthy and credential and finds no ground to disbelieve her”.The Judge also rejected other contention of the defence that the statement of the victim was not corroborated by any other independent witness.The Judge said the prosecution had duly established the guilt of the accused on the basis of facts for commission of offence under Sections 376(3) and 506 of the IPC and Section 4 of the POCSO Act.DLSA gives Rs4-lakh relief to sexual abuse victimChandigarh: In another case, the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA), Chandigarh, has awarded a compensation of Rs4 lakh to a 13-year-old girl, who is a victim of sexual abuse. The CJM-cum-Secretary, DLSA, took suo moto cognisance of the case when it came to his notice that the child was facing medical issues and had been referred to the PGI for treatment where her pregnancy was diagnosed. In the award announced on Thursday, the CJM said: “The amount of medical aid and interim monetary compensation cannot be measured with mathematical exactitude. In view of the gravity of the offence and severity of mental or physical harm and injury suffered by the victim coupled with other factual, social and economic aspects, medical aid and interim monetary compensation to the tune of Rs4 lakh is awarded to the victim”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-gets-20-year-ri-for-raping-minor-211141
12-02-2021||Mohali||BJP releases 29-point manifesto||Contesting independently for the first time, the BJP today released a 29-point manifesto for the Mohali Municipal Corporation elections.Senior BJP leader and party observer for Mohali KD Bhandari, while releasing the manifesto, said their aim was to make the MC corruption-free. He said due to rampant corruption in the MC, the common man was facing difficulty in getting his work done. He said they would ensure that the delimitation of all wards was done properly so that there was uniform development.With the SAD snapping ties with the BJP last year over the contentious agriculture laws, the saffron party had decided to contest the elections alone this time. There are 46 candidates of the party in the fray.Bhandari said former Mayor Kulwant Singh as well as the Congress had promised the local bus service in Mohali, but they failed on this front and it would be the main priority of the BJP if it was voted to power.He said the BJP would rationalise the property tax. They would also upgrade the cremation ground and create one more at a suitable place.Car of BJP leaders gheraoedMohali: A large number of youth of nearby villages here on Thursday protested against the BJP outside the election office in Sector 79 where senior party leaders had arrived to release the party manifesto for the Mohali Municipal Corporation elections to be held on February 14. The youths, holding flags of the farmers’ protest, raised slogans against the BJP and the Central Government for passing the three contentious farm Bills. As soon as BJP General Secretary Subhash Sharma and senior leader KD Bhandari came out of the election office after releasing the manifesto, the youths gheraoed their car. However, the car driver managed to drive away the vehicle safely. One of the protesters hit the vehicle with some object. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjp-releases-29-point-manifesto-211173
12-02-2021||Mohali||Azad Group promises flyovers on Airport Road||The Azad Group, led by former Mayor Kulwant Singh, today released a 31-point manifesto for the Mohali Municipal Corporation elections. The group is contesting the poll in alliance with the Aam Aadmi Party.While releasing the manifesto at his election office, Kulwant Singh said they fulfilled all the promises they had made before the last elections. He said they would be constructing flyovers for an effective traffic management on Airport Road, from Kharar to Airport Chowk. He said they would also upgrade local dispensaries and the city would have better medical infrastructure. They would upgrade parking lots in commercial areas and upgrade and replan community centres for their optimum utilisation.The former Mayor said they would take up beautification and landscaping of green spaces and build recharging borewells for harvesting rainwater.He said a green and clean Mohali advisory task force would be constituted to make cleanliness drives across the city more effective. He said pruning of trees, removing dry and fallen trees and replacement of foul-smell emitting trees would be done if the group was voted back to power. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/azad-group-promises-flyovers-on-airport-road-211175
12-02-2021||Chandigarh||Suggestions invited for new Excise Policy||The UT Excise and Taxation Department has invited suggestions for the Excise Policy 2021-22.A notice issued on behalf of Rakesh Kumar Popli, Additional Excise and Taxation Commissioner, UT, stated that the department had initiated the process of finalisation of the Excise Policy for year 2021-22. Therefore, all stakeholders were requested to submit their suggestions in respect of the Excise Policy within seven days. The suggestions might also be submitted via email or a hard copy of the same might be submitted to the office of the department.Forward these in 7 days, stakeholders toldA notice issued on behalf of Rakesh Kumar Popli, Additional Excise and Taxation Commissioner, UT, stated that the department had initiated the process of finalisation of the Excise Policy for year 2021-22. Therefore, all stakeholders were requested to submit their suggestions in respect of the Excise Policy within seven days. The suggestions might also be submitted via email or a hard copy of the same might be submitted to the office of the department.Due to the Covid outbreak, the Excise Policy 2020-21 for the entire year from April 1, 2020, to March 31, 2021, could not be notified and the Excise Policy for 2019-20 was extended up to June 30, 2020. However, the Excise Policy 2020-21 was being implemented from July 1, 2020 to March 31, 2021.An official of the department said before finalising the Excise Policy for 2021-22, policies of other states were also being studied. He said the department would discuss the suggestions and try to incorporate them in the new policy.Even before the notice was issued, people had already started giving their suggestions, he said, adding that the suggestions include installation of CCTV cameras at liquor vends and alcometer at bars and taverns, opening of liquor vends at least 200m away from educations institutions, etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/suggestions-invited-for-new-excise-policy-211176
12-02-2021||Chandigarh||Youth dies at GMSH, kin allege medical negligence||A 20-year-old youth from Sector 56-A died at the Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, here today. His family alleged that medical negligence led to his death.Satish Tiwari, the brother of the deceased, Harish Chandra Tiwari, stated that the youth was admitted to the hospital on Wednesday as he was complaining of neck pain. “He was given an injection, following which his condition improved,” he said.“My brother became sick again this morning and developed black rashes all over his body. He was put on oxygen, but became unconscious. He wasn’t given the medical attention he needed. Senior doctors came and left. He was left at the mercy of medical students and interns. Around 1 pm, they (hospital staff) said my brother is no more,” he alleged.The family submitted a written complaint with the senior authorities of the hospital. “Action should be taken against the erring doctors and staff of the hospital for medical negligence,” the family members stated in the complaint.According to officials, the patient was a known case of tuberculoma or eye TB and was under treatment for the disease.Dr Amandeep Kang, Director, Health Services, UT, said, “He developed rashes induced by anti-tuberculosis drugs for which he was admitted and attended to by the doctors in the Emergency. The patient’s treatment was modified accordingly and other supportive therapy was started as indicated.”“This morning, the patient had an episode of seizure which was treated as per the protocol at 11.30 am. However, the patient became unresponsive after some time. The CPR was done as per guidelines but the patient couldn’t be revived despite doctors’ best efforts,” she said.The Medical Superintendent, GMSH-16, has been asked to conduct a detailed inquiry into the incident and submit a report within seven days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-dies-at-gmsh-kin-allege-medical-negligence-211177
12-02-2021||Chandigarh||High Court inching towards normalcy||The Punjab and Haryana High Court, it seems, is inching towards normalcy. In just four days, no less than 631 cases were listed for physical hearing, following the decision to resume the process of offline functioning in a phased manner.As of now, three Benches are hearing cases on a physical platform. The number of such Benches is slated to double next week. The Bar Association had also withdrawn the resolution regarding boycotting the Chief Justice's Court and seeking his transfer.An analysis of the cases listed before the Benches makes it clear that 267 urgent and 262 ordinary cases were listed for physical hearing. On Day 1, 23 urgent and 49 ordinary were listed before Justice HS Gill, 16 urgent and 14 ordinary were placed before Justice Suvir Sehgal and 15 urgent and 36 ordinary were listed before Justice JS Puri.The next day on February 9, no less than 19 ordinary and 21 urgent were listed before Justice Lalit Batra, 24 urgent and 42 ordinary were before Justice AK Tyagi and 14 urgent and 32 ordinary were placed before Justice Manoj Bajaj.On Feb 10, Justice Manjari Nehru Kaul’s Bench saw 20 urgent and 27 ordinary cases. Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan’s Bench had 24 urgent and 41 ordinary, while 22 urgent and 24 ordinary were placed before Justice Avneesh Jhingan’s Bench.Justice GS Gill’s Bench today saw 28 cases each in urgent and ordinary category, Justice HS Madaan had 33 urgent and 24 ordinary cases, while Justice Anupinder Singh Grewal’s Bench had 29 urgent and 24 ordinary cases listed before it.Bar Association president GBS Dhillon said they were hoping that all Bench hearing criminal cases would resume physical functioning before the month-end. He said the Bar was appreciative of the initiative taken by Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha in this regard.“The doing away of the system of ‘mentioning’ is significant as now cases of all categories are being heard,” Dhillon added.The decision to resume physical hearing was taken during a meeting of ‘the special committee for redressal of grievances of the Bar Council and Bar Associations’ constituted by Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha. The meeting was attended by Justice Jaswant Singh, Justice Rajan Gupta, Justice Ajay Tewari, Justice Jitendra Chauhan, Justice Augustine George Masih and Justice Sanjay Kumar. It was also attended by Bar president GBS Dhillon and secretary Chanchal K Singla. Registrar-General Sanjiv Berry and Registrar-Vigilance Vikram Aggarwal were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-court-inching-towards-normalcy-211178
12-02-2021||Mohali||Former councillor, two others booked||The police have booked three persons, including former councillor Harpal Singh Channa, in a case of abetment to suicide.The other two persons are Channa’s sister-in-law Balwinder Kaur, who is contesting the MC elections from the Azad Group in Ward No. 37, and her husband Naib Singh. All of them are residents of Mataur village.The caseSompal (42), husband of Munni Devi, the BJP candidate from Ward No. 37 in Mohali, ended his life inside the building of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) in Phase 1 on Wednesday.Shivi Brar, SHO of the Phase 1 police station, said a case had been registered against the trio under Sections 306 and 120-B of the IPC on the statement of the victim’s wife. The accused were yet to be arrested as the police were verifying the facts and further investigation was on into the case.It is pertinent to mention here that Sompal (42), husband of Munni Devi, the BJP candidate from Ward No. 37 in Mohali, had committed suicide inside the building of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) in Phase 1 on Wednesday. The victim was working as a daily wage sweeper along with his wife at the PSPCL office.Munni Devi, in her complaint to the police, had stated that Channa and his accomplices recently beat up Sompal and were pressuring him to make her withdraw from the poll fray. She said following this, her husband was under depression for the past couple of days and took the extreme step.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/former-councillor-two-others-booked-211179
12-02-2021||Panchkula||Mauli Jagran resident arrested for peddling ganja||The district police today arrested a 22-year-old youth for peddling ganja and seized 3-kg of contraband from his possession.The suspect has been identified as Balbir Kumar, a resident of Mauli Jagran in Chandigarh. He was produced in a court, which sent him to three-day police remand.The detective staff of the Panchkula police intercepted the suspect near Rampur Seuri in Pinjore.“The suspect, who was carrying a bag on his shoulder, tried to hide after seeing the police. The cops got suspicious and nabbed him. During checking, the police recovered contraband from the bag,” the police said.A case was registered against him under Sections 20, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act at the Pinjore police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mauli-jagran-resident-arrested-for-peddling-ganja-211180
12-02-2021||Chandigarh||Rs 25 lakh to be spent on Rose Garden upgrade||The Rose Festival Committee constituted to celebrate the 49th Rose Festival has decided to upgrade Rose Garden, including flower beds and landscaping. For the upgradation of Rose Garden, the committee has decided to spend Rs25 lakh.A meeting of the sub-committee to discuss celebration of the symbolic Rose Festival was held here today under the chairmanship of Ravi Kant Sharma. Mayor, councillors and officials were present at the meeting.During the meeting, the committee decided to organise symbolic Rose Festival from February 26 to 28. Committee members also decided to honour frontline warriors, resident welfare associations and social organisations, which worked during the pandemic, on February 28, the closing day of the festival. The committee decided that no cultural programme would be held during the festival and only flowers would be displayed inside garden. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs-25-lakh-to-be-spent-on-rose-garden-upgrade-211182
12-02-2021||Panchkula||Panchkula police bring gangster Pahlwan on production warrant||The district police today brought Akshay Pahlwan, a notorious gangster and member of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang, on a production warrant from the Ambala Central Jail for investigating into a 2018 carjacking case. The suspect, along with his accomplices, had robbed a Baltana resident of his car at gunpoint near a liquor vend in Sector 21.The police had registered a case under Section 392 (punishment for robbery) of the IPC and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act in this regard at the Sector 5 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-police-bring-gangster-pahlwan-on-production-warrant-211183
12-02-2021||Panchkula||355 jabbed in Panchkula||As many as 355 healthcare and frontline workers received the Covid vaccine shot at three centres here on Thursday. The Health Department had fixed a target to vaccinate 300 beneficiaries. The overall coverage rate stood at 118.3 per cent. No Adverse Event Following Immunisation (AEFI) was reported on Thursday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/355-jabbed-in-panchkula-211184
12-02-2021||Chandigarh||471 get Covid vaccine in Chandigarh||As many as 471 beneficiaries were vaccinated in the city on Thursday against the target of 2,792, registering a coverage rate of 16.86 per cent. While 244 healthcare workers were immunised, the number of frontline workers getting jabbed was 227. No Adverse Event Following Immunisation was reported at all sites. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/471-get-covid-vaccine-in-chandigarh-211185
12-02-2021||Zirakpur||Man killed in hit-&-run||Medical camp at golf clubChandigarh: A complete medical check-up camp was organised for the hospitality staff of Chandigarh Golf Club (CGC) on Wednesday. Ravibir, president, CGC, said the camp was conducted to fulfil the responsibility toward members and the golf club staff. “Steps like these will go a long way in ensuring good health for all. More than 100 staff members were examined during the camp. TNSSustainable developmentChandigarh: The Department of Business Management, Commerce & Economics of Desh Bhagat University (DBU) organised a seminar titled ‘Discussion on 2030 Agenda for sustainable development goals’. The objective of seminar was to create awareness among students and staff members regarding poverty, hunger and child mortality, access to primary education, gender equality and maternal health, pandemics and environment conservation. Dr Tajinder Kaur, Pro-Chancellor, said sustainable development goals were set in 2015 by the United Nations General Assembly and are intended to be achieved by 2030. TNSSquad for Vijay Hazare tourneyChandigarh: The Union Territory Cricket Association, Chandigarh, has announced a 20-member squad for the upcoming Vijay Hazare Trophy tournament (Elite E) matches to be held from February 20 at Kolkata. Chandigarh will face Haryana in the opening match on February 21, followed by West Bengal on February 23, Services on February 25, Saurashtra on February 27 and J&K on March 1. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-killed-in-hit-run-211187
