14-02-2021||---||ITBP conducts cyclothon in Chandigarh to promote road safety||Chandigarh, February 14As part of the National Road Safety Month, the Chandigarh-based Transport Battalion of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police Force (ITBP) conducted a cyclothon on Sunday to spread the message of saving fuel and promote pollution-free environment.As many as 40 ITBP personnel, including two officers, cycled down from their campus in Behlana near the old airport to the Sukhna Lake and back. The event was led by Anand Ullagadi, the battalion’s second-in-command.The battalion also conducted a safety training programme for its drivers and mechanics which included driving motorcycles, technicalities of the new BS-6 version engines, vehicle maintenance, control while turning, road etiquettes and safety measures. The personnel also took a pledge to obey road rules and drive safely.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/itbp-conducts-cyclothon-in-chandigarh-to-promote-road-safety-212376
14-02-2021||Ropar||Nine injured in clash between Congress, SAD supporters in Ropar||Nine people were wounded—a few seriously—in a clash that followed a heated argument between supporters of Congress and the Shiromani Akali Dal, who accused each other of trying to bribe voters in the ongoing civic body elections.The fight broke out in ward no. 1 A Congress worker Pravin Kumar has been sent to Chandigarh’s Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research by a civil hospital.  He is reportedly nursing a serious injury on his arm.Congress candidate Neelam Devi and SAD’s Beena are two candidates in the fray in this ward.Pravin Kumar claimed he and his fellow Congress workers tried to stop SAD supporters from distributing money among voters.  He said SAD workers attacked them with swords in the argument that ensued.SAD supporters on the other hand claim Congress leaders had distributed cash in their ward on Saturday evening.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nine-injured-in-clash-between-congress-sad-supporters-in-ropar-212355
14-02-2021||Chandigarh/Ranchi||Punjab’s Gurpreet Singh wins 50km race walking event in National Championships||Race walker Gurpreet Singh won the men’s 50km race walk event at the 8th National Championships here on Sunday.The 38-year-old Army man from Patiala won the event by completing the race in three hours, 59 minutes, and 42 seconds (3:59:42s).Earlier, the Army man had won a silver medal in the 50km event at the 7th National Race Walking Championship in Ranchi.On Saturday, Sandeep Kumar, Rahul Kumar and Priyanka Goswami had qualified for the 20km event Oregon World Athletics Championships to be held from July 15 to 24 next year after winning 20km event.The victories also helped them secure the quota for the Tokyo Olympics.Sandeep and Priyanka, in fact, broke the national records during the course of their win.On his way to winning gold, Sandeep clocked one hour 20 minutes and 16 seconds to crack the Olympic qualification time of 1:21 minutes. Rahul, 34, too, bettered the Olympic qualification time, crossing the finish line at 1:20.26 to clinch silver.Priyanka, 24, crossed the line with a time of one hour 28 minutes 45 seconds, which was better than the Olympic qualification time of one hour 31 minutes for women. — With IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjabs-gurpreet-singh-wins-50km-race-walking-event-in-national-championships-212318
14-02-2021||---||Mohali all set for civic body poll||Tribune News ServiceMohali, February 13The district administration today dispatched around 2,036 personnel amid tight security to their respective polling stations for the conduct of the civic body elections to be held tomorrow.MLA says admn under Congress ‘pressure’Zirakpur: The SAD treasurer and Dera Bassi MLA, NK Sharma, on Saturday alleged that the administrative officials, including the SDM, were working under the pressure of Dera Bassi Congress in-charge Deepinder Singh Dhillon to give unfair advantage to the ruling party. Dera Bassi SDM Kuldeep Bawa said: “The elections will be free and fair. All preparations have been made. There is no question of giving an unfair advantage to anybody.” Sharma alleged that the Congress workers were blatantly flouting the election code of conduct. Despite the closure of election campaign, the streets were flooded with huge hoardings. TNSThe District Electoral Officer (DEO), Girish Dayalan, said the personnel were dispatched from nine locations of Sports Stadium at Sector 78, the DMO office at Sector 65, the Market Committee office at Banur, Century Public School at Nayagaon, Polytechnic College of Khooni Majra, Government College of Dera Bassi, Government Senior Secondary School of Lalru and the EO office at Kurali.Dayalan said besides EVMs and other polling material, each polling party had been provided with the requisite number of face shields, masks, gloves and sanitisers to safeguard against coronavirus.He said: “We have made adequate security arrangements to ensure a smooth polling. Around 2,340 police personnel are on election duty, including nearly 1,100 deployed at polling stations. Besides, 46 nakas have been set up with 564 personnel working round the clock, and 32 patrol parties, comprising nearly 160 police personnel, deployed”.The DEO said the requisite training of the poll duty staff had been conducted and they had been directed to ensure a smooth polling and to follow the Election Commission’s guidelines in letter and spirit.As a precautionary measure against Covid-19, thermal scanners have been provided at each booth and the screening of all persons will be carried out at the entrance to every polling station. Social distancing shall be maintained. All polling booths have been sanitised and sufficient quantity of sanitiser has been provided for voters and polling agents at each booth.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-all-set-for-civic-body-poll-212081
14-02-2021||Sandeep Rana||Cash-starved MC ‘misses’ chance to add up revenue||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 13While many auto-rickshaws and other vehicles are illegally displaying advertisements without paying any fee to the cash-starved Municipal Corporation, officials have missed a chance of earning about Rs8-crore revenue this year from ads on mobile vans.Shocking it may sound, but is true that the corporation has returned cheques for Rs72 lakh it had accepted from a private agency whom it had given permission to display advertisements on a moving vehicle.The firm had planned to start 10 such vans in about two months, which would have fetched about Rs8-9 crore revenue to the MC.The vehicle with LED display advertisements was to be stationed at a parking lot. As per the Chandigarh Advertisement Control Order-1954, the ads on mobile vans are allowed on the payment of specified fee.According to the documents in possession of Chandigarh Tribune, the MC’s Officer on Special Duty (OSD) had granted permission to Decode Advertising Pvt Ltd on January 5 for displaying advertisements on an LED mobile van for five years. In this letter, the civic body asked to submit the fee.The agency paid about Rs72 lakh as fee in the form of two cheques, which the MC returned about a month later due to some “administrative reasons”. “They first took six months to grant me approval. But after granting permission, they returned the amount without any specific reason. Many vehicles with ads ply in the city illegally and without paying any fee,” said Rajesh Jain, the owner of the agency.Leader of the Opposition Devinder Singh Babla said: “The MC is running from pillar to post for funds, but here is this case where they are deliberately not accepting funds. They have failed to run the MC and that is why I say the House should be dissolved. They are only taxing people and not able to earn revenue.”OSD Hemant Yadav said: “Though we have returned the cheques due to some official reasons, the proposal has not been cancelled and is still under consideration.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cash-starved-mc-misses-chance-to-add-up-revenue-212082
14-02-2021||Chandigarh||46 per cent beneficiaries miss second dose in city||Around 46 per cent beneficiaries missed their second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine scheduled for today after 28 days from the first dose.‘Can avail of spot allocation’Such beneficiaries can come to any vaccination site and get themselves inoculated through spot allocation.  — Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, UTAgainst a target of 265 beneficiaries who were to be vaccinated by the UT Health Department today, only 143 turned up for the second dose. The turnout remained 53 per cent.Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, UT, said: “The beneficiaries may have missed the second shot due to preoccupation or personal reasons. Such beneficiaries who have missed the second shot can come to any vaccination site and get themselves inoculated through spot allocation. The second dose is supposed to be administered within a gap of four to six weeks from the first dose.”After all doses of the vaccine are administered, a QR code-based certificate will be sent to the registered mobile number of the beneficiary.So far, 25,526 beneficiaries, including healthcare workers and frontline workers, have been called for vaccination at various session sites and 34.9 per cent is the total turnout.Among the frontline workers, the hesitancy is no different as the total turnout has been only 37.6 per cent.Keeping in view vaccine hesitancy among the healthcare workers, the UT Health Department is also planning to give an advertisement in the local media to encourage the targeted group to take the vaccine shot. According to the Centre’s guidelines, the healthcare workers will not be vaccinated after February 25.The Health Department is expected to begin the vaccination drive for persons aged 50 years and above from March 15. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/46-per-cent-beneficiaries-miss-second-dose-in-city-212083
14-02-2021||Zirakpur||Woman, child killed as truck hits bike||A three-year-old girl and her mother were killed while the father was critically injured when a truck hit their motorcycle in the rear side on the Zirakpur-Panchkula road here this afternoon.According to the police, Harish Kumar, a resident of Bhabat, was injured while his wife Anshulata, in her thirties, and daughter Ananya were killed in the accident. The truck driver fled the spot, leaving behind his vehicle, said the police.The three members of the family were rushed to the GMCH-32 where the doctors declared Anshulata and Ananya dead on arrival. Harish is undergoing treatment at the hospital. Meanwhile, the police have impounded the truck and registered a case against its driver. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-child-killed-as-truck-hits-bike-212084
14-02-2021||Chandigarh||Alcoholics can test -ve late on RT-PCR: Study||A group of PGI researchers has found that patients who were using substance such as tobacco or alcohol took a long time to test negative on RT-PCR compared to those who were not taking any substance.The study, titled “Relationship of substance dependence and time to RT-PCR negative status in patients with Covid-19 infection”, was published in the Asian Journal of Psychiatry. The study was carried out by Dr Aseem Mehra, Dr Vikas Suri, Dr Pankaj Malhotra, Dr Lakshmi Narayana, Dr Sawapnajeet Sahoo, Dr GD Puri, Dr Ashish Bhalla and Dr Sandeep Grover.During the study period, 98 patients were admitted, of whom details of substance abuse were available for 95 patients. About one-fourth (25) patients were consuming substances in a dependent pattern, of whom seven were taking more than one substance and 18 were using only one substanceIn the present study, outcomes were evaluated in the form of time taken for the RT-PCR negative status in addition to patient being symptom-free during the Covid-19 infection. When those with any substance dependence and those without substance dependence were compared, it was seen that a significantly lower proportion of the patients with substance dependence tested negative on RT-PCR on 14th day, 18th day and 23rd day. Among the substance users, a significantly higher proportion of them were male. On 14th day, i.e. after two weeks of the baseline assessment, about one-third (35.8%) of patients were found to be negative on RT-PCR. This percentage increased to 46.3% and 49.5% by 18th day and 23th day, respectively.According to the WHO, consuming alcohol and smoking are associated with a more complicated and dangerous progression of Covid-19.The present study suggests that mental health professionals involved in the care of patients infected with Covid-19 should accordingly prepare these patients for a possible longer hospital stay, as last-minute disclosure of prolongation of the hospital stay can lead to significant distress in patients who are staying in isolation with an expectation of discharge in two-week time. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/alcoholics-can-test-ve-late-on-rt-pcr-study-212085
14-02-2021||Chandigarh||From tomorrow, UT to see full-fledged Apni Mandis||After a gap of nearly 11 months, Apni Mandis are set to return to the old schedule in the city. The local Market Committee has decided to restart these from Monday onwards so as to give an easy access to residents to get vegetables and fruits near their localities.An official spokesperson stated that Apni Mandis, which were discontinued to contain the spread of Covid-19 in March last year, were going to start again as per the old schedule.The spokespersons said farmers as well as general public were requested to maintain social distancing, wear three-ply mask and use sanitiser in order to prevent the transmission of coronavirus. It may be mentioned here that the Punjab Mandi Board has already resumed operations of Apni Mandis in various areas of the city from February 1. Only farmers registered with the Punjab Mandi Board were being allowed to set up stalls at Apni Mandis being operated by the board so far. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/from-tomorrow-ut-to-see-full-fledged-apni-mandis-212086
14-02-2021||---||Election staff reach polling booths in Patiala district||Patiala, February 13The district administration has made preparations for tomorrow’s Municipal Council (MC) elections in Samana, Patran, Nabha and Rajpura. Officials said they had deployed 760 staff members and officers on election duties for smooth conduct of voting. They reached their respective polling booths today, officials added.Meanwhile, the police have also prepared a list of 33 hypersensitive polling stations apart from deputing four SP level officers and eight DSP level officers in all the four municipal areas along 1,800 police personnel.District electoral officer Kumar Amit accompanied by SSP Vikramjit Duggal said, “Voting for the MC elections will be held in a fair, smooth and independent manner.”Taking stock of last-day arrangements at Samana and Patran, he said all arrangements for the elections were complete as per the instructions. “Foolproof security arrangements have been made by the Police Department. Adequate security and other arrangements have been made for the sensitive and highly sensitive polling stations as per the guidelines,” he added.The polling staff has been directed to make adequate arrangements to prevent the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. As many as 1,97,812 voters will be able to exercise their voting rights during elections in 92 wards of the four Municipal Councils, of which 1,03,458 are male voters, 94,334 are female voters and 20 belong to third gender.There are 190 polling booths, of which 33 have been declared \/hypersensitive, including one in Patran, eight in Nabha, 21 in Rajpura and three in Samana. Fifty polling stations have been declared sensitive.The SP (Investigation), Harmeet Singh Hundal, who is looking after security arrangements in Rajpura, said they had deputed extra police staff at hypersensitive polling booths. “Patrolling parties will also be active in the entire area, which has been divided into respective zones,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/election-staff-reach-polling-booths-in-patiala-district-212087
14-02-2021||---||PU issues additional instructions for online examinations||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 13Panjab University has issued additional instructions for online examinations of odd semesters, starting from February 15.Dr Jagat Bhushan, Controller of Examination, said, “The USOL and private students appearing in the morning slot (9:30 am to 12.30pm) have to upload single PDF of answer sheet at the UG/PG websites. They also have to upload an undertaking, which is to be accepted online, along with the answer sheet.”“This should be done within 90 minutes of completion of the exam. The first page will be the admit card and other pages should be scanned chronologically. Page number should be written on each page. A hard copy of the answer sheet should be posted to the university by 3 pm on the same day of examination,” Bhushan added.Also, students of colleges/departments/regional centres appearing in re-appear subjects in both morning and evening slots will upload their answer sheet at websites of the university.“Students appearing in the morning slot will also post their answer sheet through registered post/speed post by 3 pm on the same day of examination. Students appearing in the evening slot will post their answer sheet on the next working day within two hours of opening of the post office,” said Bhushan.The answer sheet should be posted to Deputy Registrar – Secrecy, Aruna Ranjit Chandra Hall, Panjab University, Sector 14, Chandigarh (UT), Pincode 160014.“All candidates are advised to make a file under 25 MB size and mail it to their own email account as a preliminary exercise before the exam to get acquainted with the process,” Bhushan added. A demonstration video for scanning and creating a single PDF of answer sheets has been uploaded on the university portal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-issues-additional-instructions-for-online-examinations-212088
14-02-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Firm penalised for refusing to refund cost of defective AC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 13The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission Chandigarh has directed a city-based dealer and a company to refund Rs37, 500, the price of the defective air conditioner (AC), along with Rs17 ,000 as compensation and litigation cost to consumer.Jaswinder Singh, a city resident, approached the commission after the company failed to resolve the problem of the AC he had bought. Jaswinder said he purchased an Ac from an authorised dealer of Daikin Air Conditioning India Private Limited in May 2019 for Rs37,200. After installing AC in the house, it developed a snag and stopped working on June 14, 2019.Representative of the company visited Jaswinder’s house many times, but the AC’s fault could not be rectified. Alleging that the act amounted to deficiency in service and unfair trade practice on the part of the company the complainant approached the commission for relief.In its reply the company pleaded that there was some problem in a part of the AC and the firm was ready to replace it free of cost, but the complainant insisted for replacement of the entire unit, which was also approved.However, the complainant started demanding refund of the cost of the AC along with compensation, which was not warranted as there was no deficiency in service on company’s part, the company added.After hearing arguments the commission noted that the act of the company for not processing the replacement or refund of the complainant’s AC amounts to deficiency in service and indulgence of unfair trade practice.The commission directed the company to refund Rs37,500 to the complainant being the price of the AC along with interest at the rate of seven per cent per annum from the date of its purchase till realisation of the amount.The commission also directed the company to pay a compensation of Rs10,000 to the complainant on account of unfair trade practice, deficiency in service and for causing mental and physical harassment and Rs7,000 as litigation expenses. The commission fixed one month time for the implementation of its order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/firm-penalised-for-refusing-to-refund-cost-of-defective-ac-212089
14-02-2021||---||City artists’ silent cry for protesting farmers||Chandigarh, February 13Right in front of the Rooster Fountain at Sector 17 Plaza, Jashandeep Kaur, a student at Government College of Arts, hands out self-designed postcards reading: “Postcards from protest to people”. While other artists assemble their colours and brushes, Hardev Singh gets his blood injected out by his doctor friends. The stage for protest art is set.I know there are a lot of people, who have a lot of stories about farmer protests. So, I’ve started a postcard campaign of sorts, where people can either write on these postcards I designed about their experience or feelings about the protest or just post a picture. I’ll make a collage of these postcards soon. — Jashandeep Kaur, Student, Government College of ArtsAs their hands begin to talk, images of Dalit labour activist Nodeep Kaur, who was arrested by the Haryana Police in January, and protesting farmer Ranjeet Singh, whose photograph of being squished under the boot of a police officer in Delhi went viral after January 26 violence, surfaced on a blank piece of cloth.With a syringe in his hand, Hardev started his performance art by dropping blood in sachets of barcode-labelled grains. “This is to literally signify the blood, sweat and tears of the farmer, the effort it takes to grow food,” he said. Hardev inks a cloth in his blood to pen the slogan “No farmer, no food” and writes, ‘Ki assi azaad haan?’ (Are we really free?).More people join in. “This young boy has rightfully shown the plight of our farmers. While the MPs in Lok Sabha sessions laugh at farmers protesting in harsh winters, don’t they once think of their concerns?” asks an onlooker.For Jashandeep, postcards are a quiet and peaceful way to send a message across. “I know there are a lot of people, who have a lot of stories about farmer protests. So, I’ve started a postcard campaign of sorts, where people can either write on these postcards I designed about their experience or feelings about the protest or just post a picture. I’ll make a collage of these postcards soon,” she explains. For digital entries, she has also made an Instagram account for her postcard campaign called “Postcards from protests”.Several artists at the protest include GCA students Jasmine (19), Alisha (19), Sunaina Bhagat, Sunil Kumar, Dahim, Gurwinder Singh, PhD researchers Robina Singh and Raam Jator, banker Paramveer Singh. Other city artists, including Kuljeet Singh, Ishaan Kamboj, Shikhar Thukral, Maya Rajput and Dilpreet Johal, were also present at the protest site.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/city-artists-silent-cry-for-protesting-farmers-212090
14-02-2021||---||70% of 50K applicants appear for PPSC preliminary exams||Tribune News ServicePatiala, February 13The Punjab Public Service Commission (PPSC) conducted its civil services combined competitive (preliminary) examinations at nine districts in the state today.The exams were conducted at as many as 171 centres across nine districts in the state for the first time.Officials said the exams wereconducted at various centres in Patiala, Jalandhar, Nawanshahr, Kapurthala, Barnala, Fatehgarh Sahib, Ludhiana, Sangrur and Mohali. Navreet Kaur Sekhon, Secretary (Examinations), PPSC, said 70 per cent out of nearly 50,000 applicants, who had applied, appeared in the preliminary examinations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/70-of-50k-applicants-appear-for-ppsc-preliminary-exams-212091
14-02-2021||Patiala||Rs2.1-cr property of TADA fugitive attached||Acting strictly against fugitives and proclaimed offenders (POs), the police have set a benchmark by getting attached immovable properties worth Rs8 crore of as many as 16 POs since January 21 this year. Giving details about recent attachment of the immovable property of a terrorist, the Patiala SSP, Vikram Jeet Duggal, said 33 years ago, a case was registered at the Ghanour police station against escapee Baldev Singh from Dandoa village for his terror related activities under Sections 3 and 4 of the Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act, in 1988.After Baldev was declared PO the Ghanour police filed an application before the court to attach his immovable property, including seven acres at Dandoa village, which was worth Rs2.15 crore, the SSP added.The court attached this property as per the proceedings under Section 83 of the CrPC, the SSP said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs2-1-cr-property-of-tada-fugitive-attached-212092
14-02-2021||Mohali||Youngster booked for Rs7.26-lakh fraud||The police have registered a case of breach of trust against an employee of a Mohali-based IT company, who allegedly committed a fraud of Rs7. 26 lakh during the lockdown last year.According to the complainant, Gurpreet Singh Walia, the suspect, Karanvir Singh, is a resident of Kharar, and was employed as a sales and marketing head in his Phase-8 based company Suffescom Solutions Private Limited. He allegedly stole company’s data during the lockdown and started to deal with firm’s clients individually with the help of four to five professionals and received money in a new bank account without the knowledge of the managing director.Walia, the managing director of the company, alleged that Karanvir defrauded the company to the tune of Rs7.26 lakh. The police have registered a case under Section 408, IPC, and IT Act against the suspect at the Phase 8 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youngster-booked-for-rs7-26-lakh-fraud-212093
14-02-2021||---||Panel orders refund of Rs7 lakh to Sahara City Home applicant||Tribune News ServiceRopar, February 13The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission comprising president Sanjiv Dutt Sharma and member Capt Yuvinder Singh Matta has ordered Sahara Prime City Limited and Sahara Credit Cooperative Society to return Rs7.38 lakh to complainant Anita Kumari, who deposited the amount to purchase two houses.The commission also ordered the opposite parties to pay 18 per cent per annum interest along with a compensation of Rs2 lakh to the complainant.Anita Kumari in her complaint had stated that she had booked two houses at Sahara City Home, a scheme launched by Sahara Prime City Limited, by depositing Rs1,83,000 and Rs91,800 in March 2005.Later, she was again asked to deposit same amount as second installment in Janaury 2007.The complainant stated that after the project did not materialise she applied for the refund. The company while stating that there was no money with them on account of the freezing of its accounts by the Sahara Group promised to return the amount after 18 months through its sister concern Sahara Credit Cooperative Society. For that purpose two fixed deposit receipts (FDRs) were issued by the latter, the complainant claimed.Though the FDRs got matured in June 2017, the complainant alleged that she didn’t get the money.Disposing of the case the commission observed that it was an act of misrepresentation on behalf of the opposite parties, which deviated complainant’s funds from Sahara Prime City to Sahara Credit Cooperative Society, instead of returning the amount to her when they were not able to construct homes as promised by them in or around Chandigarh.During arguments, the advocate of the opposite parties was not answering the question asked by the commission time and again about the veracity of the receipts and even the same number, which was mentioned on the FDRs and on the receipt.Even during the pendency of the application, advocate of the opposite parties moved two applications on their behalf, which were dismissed as these had no substance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panel-orders-refund-of-rs7-lakh-to-sahara-city-home-applicant-212094
14-02-2021||---||Gagandeep wins title||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 13Chandigarh’s Gagandeep Singh Wasu won the International Tennis Federation Tournament at Chamunda (Karnal). He won the title in the men’s single’s 45-plus category. Wasu defeated Gopal Soni from Rajasthan 6-4, 7-5 in the final.Earlier in the semifinals, he upset second seed Vijay Verma from Muzaffarnagar in a nail biting contest 5-7, 6-4, 6-4. In the men’s 45-plus doubles event, Wasu and Yogesh Kohli reached the semifinals. However, the pair lost to Vijay Verma and Avnish Rastogi 4-6, 4-6.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gagandeep-wins-title-212095
14-02-2021||---||Man claiming to be doctor lands in Panchkula police net||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, February 13The police arrested a 50-year-old man claiming to be a doctor without being registered as a medical practitioner with the Indian Medical Council/Haryana State Medical Council as required for doing practice in allopathic drugs from Kot village on Friday. Certificates to be verifiedHealth officials said the suspect was playing with the lives of patients and cheating poor people. The certificates submitted by the suspect were a matter of investigation to determine their veracity.Items recovered“The team searched the premises and recovered a huge quantity of allopathic drugs and apparatus/medical devices used in the diagnosis and treatment of patients such as stethoscope, nebuliser, glucometer, stitching threads and injectables stocked in the clinic,” read the FIR.The police said the suspect identified himself as Dr Subhash Vashisht. The police also seized 21 types of medicines/drugs and medical instruments from his possession. As per the FIR lodged at the Chandimandir police station, a joint team of the Health and Police departments visited the clinic of the suspect on the directions of the Panchkula Civil Surgeon as well as a complaint received from the Additional Director-General of Police, CID, Haryana, for investigation purpose on Friday.“The team searched the premises and recovered a huge quantity of allopathic drugs and apparatus/medical devices used in the diagnosis and treatment of patients such as stethoscope, nebuliser, glucometer, stitching threads and injectables stocked in the clinic,” read the FIR.The suspect was subsequently asked to furnish his qualification for practicing as a doctor.“The suspect stated that he is a registered medical practitioner in Bachelor of Indigenous Medicine in Allopathic and produced a certificate issued by the Biraja Medical College of Homoeopathy, Allopathy and Ayurvedic, Cuttack, Orissa, dated July 2, 1990, and one more certificate as RMP in Allopathic System of Medicine issued by the Council of Allopathic Medicine Practitioner’s, Patna, Bihar, dated September 1, 1990,” the FIR added.Health officials said the suspect was playing with the lives of patients and cheating the poor people. The certificates submitted by the suspect were a matter of investigation to determine their veracity.A case was registered under relevant sections of the Indian Medical Council Act at the Chandimandir police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-claiming-to-be-doctor-lands-in-panchkula-police-net-212096
14-02-2021||---||Vehicle with  245 cartons of liquor impounded, one held||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, February 13The Haryana Chief Minister’s flying squad seized a pick-up vehicle laden with 245 cartons of liquor near Khangesra village for transporting these without a permit or valid document.The flying squad arrested the driver of the vehicle and handed him over to the police. The suspect has been identified as Manoj Kumar, a native of Unnao in Uttar Pradesh.The flying squad, which was present at the Ramgarh bus stand around 6 pm on Friday, received a tip-off that liquor is being transported without a permit from a firm, Paradise Liquors, in the Industrial Area, Phase 1, to a liquor vend in Raipur Rani via Mattewali and its current location is between Ramgarh and Raipur Rani. Officials from the Ramgarh police post were also pressed into action. The joint team spotted the vehicle near Khangesra village on the Raipur Rani road.After a brief chase, the pick-up driver was signalled to stop the vehicle.He was subsequently asked to produce the permit for the liquor loaded in the vehicle. The driver rather showed a pass and failed to provide the supporting documents to the flying squad team.The vehicle was taken to the Chandimandir police station and Excise Inspector Sunil was asked to reach there for further inspection.A case under Section 120-B and 420 of the IPC, Section 61 of the Punjab Excise Act and Sections 13 and 7 of the Prevention of the Corruption Act has been registered at the Chandimandir police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vehicle-with-245-cartons-of-liquor-impounded-one-held-212098
14-02-2021||---||Sky Rock Co-op Society president gets 2-year jail||Tribune News ServiceMohali, February 13The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Mohali, has awarded two-year imprisonment to the president of Sky Rock Co-operative Society for failing to refund Rs2 lakh to a Chandigarh resident.Commission president Sanjiv Dutt Sharma also imposed a fine of Rs50,000 for failing to comply with the order of the commission dated January 15, 2019, directing the society president, Navjeet Singh, to refund Rs2 lakh, along with 12 per cent interest per annum from the date of deposits till payment, a compensation of Rs25,000 and Rs5,000 litigation expenses.Ankit Kumar, in his complaint to the commission, had stated that he had booked a plot measuring 200 sq yards for a total sale consideration of Rs19 lakh with the opposite party in 2011 and paid a booking amount of Rs10,000. Later, he paid Rs1.90 lakh on February 24, 2012, and was promised the possession of the plot within four years.He said despite several visits, the opposite party kept on lingering on the matter on one pretext or the other. In January 2016, when he demanded Rs2 lakh back, the opposite party got executed an unsigned agreement on January 29, 2016, and provisional allotment of Plot No. 473 in Sky Rock City Part-2 was made in his favour. He said on September 2, 2017, officials of the opposite party refused to hand over the possession of the plot and threatened him with dire consequences.The commission observed: “Since the accused is blunt and straightforward in his statement and has clearly shown his intention not to comply with the orders of this commission and pleads guilty, we feel that we are left with no other option but to punish him under Section 72 of the Act for wilful and intentional disobedience of our orders dated January 15, 2019. We feel that the very purpose of the Consumer Protection Act will fail, if the persons like the accused are not brought to book and punished in accordance with the law”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sky-rock-co-op-society-president-gets-2-year-jail-212099
14-02-2021||Mohali||Chandigarh cricket academy win||Aksh Rana posted a quick-fire 119 off 97 balls to help Century Cricket Academy, Chandigarh, defeat Kalsi Cricket Academy, Mohali, by 92 runs in the ongoing 1st DP Azad U-17 Cup at Dera Bassi.Batting first, the Chandigarh outfit posted 232/4 in 35 overs. Rana’s innings was supported by Aryan Bansal (43) and Sarthak Kamal (39). Siddhak, Priyanshu Sharma and Kabir Kalsi took one wicket each for the bowling side.In reply, the Mohali team scored 140/7 in allotted 35 overs. Ritvick Verma (36), Naman Verma (23), Parmish Kumar (23) and Kabir Kalsi (21) were the main run getters for the side. Shivdeep Singh was the pick of the bowlers as he claimed 3/16, while Manhar Bawa claimed two wickets and Akshan took one. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-cricket-academy-win-212100
14-02-2021||---||UT extends hookah ban for two months||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 13The UT Administration has extended the ban on serving of hookah in hotels, restaurants, clubs, etc for two months.The orderIn an order issued by District Magistrate Mandip Singh Brar under Section 144 of the CrPC, “no hookah shall be served for smoke/consumption in hotels/restaurants/taverns/bars/hookah bars, etc”.In an order issued by District Magistrate Mandip Singh Brar under Section 144 of the CrPC, “no hookah shall be served for smoke/consumption in hotels/restaurants/taverns/bars/hookah bars, etc”. The hookah bars are thus banned to operate in the UT, the order stated.Since the hookah in many of these bars is smoked/consumed by people/customers through a common bowl, pipe and hose, it is susceptible to physical mouth to mouth touch of many persons, thus posing danger to human life, health and safety by becoming a cause of as well as leading to the transmission and spread of the Covid pandemic, it said.The order will remain in force till April 13 this year. The violators would be punished under Section 188 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ut-extends-hookah-ban-for-two-months-212101
14-02-2021||---||Bishnoi gang member held||Tribune News ServiceMohali, February 13The police have nabbed three members of two gangs, including the Lawrence Bishnoi gang, with three country-made pistols, seven rounds of ammunition, fake stamps of government officials and vehicles used in the crime.The police have nabbed a resident of Fatehabad, Rahul Sihag, with a country-made pistol, fake stamps and documents related to the Lawrence Bishnoi and Sampat Nehra’s court trial in various henious crimes from Dhakoli.The suspect was posing as an official of the Punjab Sports Department and was in possession of fake stamps of senior government officials.Meanwhile, the police had nabbed two members of a carjackers’ gang with two pistols from Mullanpur on February 6. They were involved in multiple incidents in Punjab and other states.The suspects, a Mullanpur resident Manpreet Singh, alias Shaunki, and a resident of Amritsar, Gurpreet Singh, alias Bunty, 25; have been booked under the Arms Act at the Mullanpur police station. They were produced before the on February 11.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bishnoi-gang-member-held-212102
14-02-2021||Chandigarh||One death, 17 infected in Chandigarh||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-death-17-infected-in-chandigarh-212103
14-02-2021||Panchkula||10 new cases in Panchkula||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/10-new-cases-in-panchkula-212104
14-02-2021||Mohali||19 test positive in Mohali dist||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/19-test-positive-in-mohali-dist-212105
14-02-2021||Dera Bassi||14-kg marijuana seized, 2 nabbed||In two separate incidents, the police arrested two suspects, Vikas Kumar Ojha, a native of Siwan, and Khagpati Khara, a native of Odisha, with seven-kg marijuana each.The suspects were booked under Sections 20, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act at the Lalru police station on February 11. The duo was produced before a court on February 12, which sent them to three-day police remand. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/14-kg-marijuana-seized-2-nabbed-212106
14-02-2021||Panchkula||Cop killed in road mishap||Patwari’s election office ransackedMohali: The election office of Sukhdev Patwari, joint candidate of the AAP and the Azad Group from Ward No. 34, was ransacked by a group of miscreants in Sector 70 here late on Saturday night. Patwari alleged that Akali workers gathered with sticks in big number outside his office and created ruckus. Meanwhile, there were reports of liquor being distributed in a slum area in Phase 6 here this night, which led to stone pelting on some members of a political party. According to information, the police rushed to the spot to bring the situation under control. TNSMobile phone, purse snatchedChandigarh: A Dhanas resident, Pankaj Kumar, reported that two unknown persons riding a scooter snatched his mobile phone, a purse containing Aadhaar card and some cash near the Dhanas lake on February 11. A case has been registered. TNSWoman loses bag to snatcherPanchkula: A 40-year-old woman, an accountant with Blue Bird High School in Sector 16, lost her handbag to a bike-borne snatcher on Saturday. The bag contained her mobile phone, two ATM cards, identity documents and Rs500. The woman, Richa Paliwal, was walking towards the main road to catch an auto-rickshaw for Baltana after finishing her duty around 1:30 pm. The suspect, who came from behind, snatched her bag and fled away. The victim couldn’t note the registration number of the vehicle. “The suspect was caught on CCTV cameras installed in a nearby house and will be nabbed soon,” said Sub-Inspector Sushil Kumar, in-charge at the Sector 16 police post. A case has been registered. TNSMan arrested with pistolDera Bassi: The police have nabbed a man with a country-made pistol and five rounds of ammunition in Lalru. The suspect has been identified as Mohammad Abid, 28, a resident of Malerkotla. The suspect was produced before a court on February 12, which sent him to three-day police custody. TNSMinerva academy enter quartersChandigarh: Minerva Academy defeated SBBS Football Academy 3-2 in the JCT Punjab U21 Youth League. SBBS Football Academy took an early lead after its striker Ravi converted a free kick. The side closed the first half with a one-goal lead. In the second half, Minerva levelled the score in the 65th minute through Shambhu Deb. Ojas Singh, thereafter, put Minerva ahead by scoring in the 68th minute. However, the joy was cut short as SBBS Football Academy put the score on a par in the 78th minute. In the last minute, Ojas again netted his second goal to confirm a 3-2 win over SBBS Football Academy. Minerva Academy will now play its quarterfinal match against Thekedar Amarjit Singh Memorial Football Club in Mohali. TNSVolleyball state c’ship from Feb 17Chandigarh: The Chandigarh Volleyball Association will organise the Chandigarh State Senior (Men and Women) and Sub-Junior (Boys and Girls) Volleyball Championship from February 17 to 19. The association will also select a probable squad to represent Chandigarh in the 69th Senior National Volleyball Championship at KIIT University, Bhubaneswar, Odisha, from March 5 to 11. The sub-junior boys’ team will participate in the 43rd Sub-Junior National Volleyball Championship at Vellore, Tamil Nadu, from February 24 to 28. Players born on or after January 1, 2005, will be eligible to participate in sub-junior age group of the championship. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cop-killed-in-road-mishap-212108
