15-02-2021||New Delhi||Delhi HC dismisses plea of Chandigarh dentist for criminal prosecution of NCB chief||The Delhi High Court on Monday dismissed the plea by a dentist seeking directions to the Centre, Central Vigilance Commission and CBI to investigate and launch criminal prosecution on his complaint against Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) chief Rakesh Asthana.Justice Suresh Kait also imposed a cost of Rs 20,000 on the petitioner - Dr Mohit Dhawan.Advocate Sushil Tekriwal, who appeared for the dentist, said the amount has to be deposited in the high court within two weeks.He said the detailed order containing all the reasons was not yet available, but one of the grounds of dismissal was that the plea was without any merits.On February 12 the matter was listed before Justice Yogesh Khanna who had recused himself from hearing the matter and directed that it be listed before another bench.The Chandigarh-based dentist had first moved the Supreme Court for criminal prosecution of Asthana based on his allegations that the NCB was indulging in extortion in connivance with other police officers.However, he had on February 8 withdrawn the plea from the apex court and said he would approach the Punjab and Haryana High Court to pursue the remedy.Dhawan, in his petition, has contended that he had filed a complaint against Asthana, who also heads the BSF, before the CBI Director in 2019 but there has been no action or adjudication so far.The plea in the top court had alleged that Central Vigilance Commission and the CBI were sitting over the complaint for more than 16 months and not updating the petitioner on the status of the action taken and hence criminal prosecution be initiated against all such erring persons. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/delhi-hc-dismisses-plea-of-chandigarh-dentist-for-criminal-prosecution-of-ncb-chief-212822
15-02-2021||Open House||Sincere efforts, not casual approach, can check menace||Carry stick while going out for walkIt is really shocking to know that the total dog bites during the previous year were as high as 10,558. This is much more even than total dog bite cases in Mumbai. The MC is sterilising dogs. But the results are not favourable. Strays can be kept at canine centre like cows are kept in a gaushala. Individuals may also be advised to carry a stick while going out for morning and evening walks. Never forget that safety saves.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhTie up with NGOsThere is no check on stray dogs entering in city. A dog pound with hospital to sterilise and vaccinate strays should be constructed by the Administration. People should be encouraged to adopt stray dogs. We have got 10 stray dogs sterilised in our locality. The Administration can tie up with NGOs to run dog pounds. The Administration can create infrastructure to manage stray dogs while NGOs can run itCapt Amar Jeet (retd), MohaliShift strays to place outside cityFirst of all we cannot say how much truth is there in dog sterilisation as no MC employee is seriously performing his/her duty. If the MC had sterilised dogs on regular basis the canine population would have certainly reduced. All dogs should be shifted to one place outside the city and taken care of.Opinder Kaur Sekhon, ChandigarhEducate people not to feed stray dogsStray dogs menace has increased manifold not only in Chandigarh, but in the tricity. All stray dogs should be shifted to centres set up by the MC authorities after sterilisation. People should also be educated about not to feed stray dogs.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliOverhaul process of dog sterilisationRising population of stray dogs in the city indicates that sterilisation undertaken by the Municipal Corporation is shoddy. Questions can be raised over surgical skills of veterinarians. Unless the sterilisation process is not overhauled thoroughly the stray dog population and canine bite cases in the city will continue to rise with each passing day.SC Luthra, ChandigarhDog sterilisation project has failedThere is large population of dogs in every sector of the City Beautiful. This has increased dog bites cases. The sterilisation project has failed as it is difficult to catch every stray dog. Dog lovers should understand the pain of dog bite victims. As such, the UT Administration should mull over culling stray/unlicensed dogs every six months in order to end the canine bite problem and keep their population in check.KC Rana, ChandigarhFeeding stray dogs can prove fatalFrom time to time the Municipal Corporation should arrange for catching stray dogs. We often feed stray dogs. It is not bad, but this particular habit is fatal to our society as it increases canine population in the city. So, we must stop feeding dogs.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhAct before onset of breeding seasonThe rise of the canine population and stray-dog bite cases falsify the tall claims made by the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation about the sterilisation drive. Before the onset of the dog breeding season, the MC should initiate dog sterilisation stringently. Stray dogs must be kept under care for sometime after sterilisation and vaccinated against rabies.Simran Sidhu, ChandigarhLaunch Drive at regular intervalsIt has been observed that the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation staff is not working up to the required expectations. Ultimately, residents are at the receiving end. Top officials have to step in and see that the civic body field staff puts an end stray dog menace. Besides, the civic body has to carry out sterilisation drive at regular intervals.Moti Bhateja, ChandigarhIndividuals must accept responsibilityCatch-and-release is an effective means of reducing stray dog population. It does take money and time. If stray dogs are not killed, their population will keep on increasing and pose danger to humans, especially children. Stray dogs are often carriers of diseases because of lack of care. It is time for individuals to accept personal responsibility in stray dog management. So, only culling can reduce the population of stray dogs.Akshar Kumar Singla, Chandigarhhard to believe Dog Sterilisation dataIt is unbelievable that hundreds of dogs are being sterilised every month. The MC should not give wrong data to the public. Male and female dogs must be sterilised. Special training must be given to the MC staff to sterilise dogs. Sterilisation surgery should be done properly. Besides, the MC can construct stray dog shelters in the city.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliPut up stray dogs for adoptionThe MC should continue with sterilisation of stray canine and can shift them to dog shelters. Other option is to encourage residents to adopt stray dogs. The MC can charge a nominal fee for adoption. This way dogs will get home and the MC can generate revenue.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliChange stray dog management policyIt's really shocking and disturbing to know or read about dog bites in the City Beautiful. You can't go out for a peaceful morning or evening walk due to fear of getting attacked by street dogs. Stray dogs are nuisance to society. They litter anywhere. Many dog lovers are non-vegetarian. They do not raise any voice against killing of harmless animals. In most other countries, culling of dogs is allowed while in India it is banned. The Municipal Corporation, which is not even competent to supply water to the city, has been assigned the task of stray dog sterilisation. The fault lies in the stray dog policy. It has to be changed to allow systematic culling of stray dogs coupled with sterilisation because canines have immense power to reproduce.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliMC not serious about straysHalf-hearted efforts to reduce stray dogs has led to increase in their population in the UT. Also, residents openly feed strays in the city. The authorities should ban feeding stray canine. Many persons keep stray dogs as pets, which are not registered with the MC. Pets bite people. The MC should upload list of registered pets on its website for the knowledge of residents. Dog pounds should be created for strays. A helpline should be launched to report stray dog menace in the city.Ashok Kumar Goel, PanchkulaOwners should get pets trainedThe Municipal Corporation should adopt proper sector-wise strategy to control the stray dog menace in Chandigarh. Camps should be held for residents to make them aware of what needs to be done in case a dog bites. Pet owners should get their dogs trained so that they don't bite people around them. A dedicated 24-hour helpline number should be introduced to deal with canine bite cases. Dispensaries should provide free treatment in stray dog bite cases.Anita Tandon, KhararCheck menace jointly in tricityStray dog problem does not persist only in Chandigarh, but adjoining cities of Mohali and Panchkula are also facing the same issue. As strays can easily move around tricity so the problem cannot be tackled by a single authority. Therefore, menace should be checked by setting up a joint rapid action team with mutual understanding to catch and sterilise stray canine and prevent dog bites in the tricity.Surinder Paul Wadhwa, MohaliNo impact of drive at ground levelEven the Animal Welfare Board of India has also found that all is not well with MC sterilisation drive, which has many anomalies. The canine sterilisation drive has made no impact as their number continues to rise. Strays are common sight in streets and parks of the UT. The MC should consider expert advice to check canine population, involve RWAs to deal with the menace and stop residents from feeding stray dogs. Above all the UT MC should setup dog care and rehabilitation centre.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaLaunch sterilisation drive in whole tricityThe Chandigarh Municipal Corporation has initiated the process of canine sterilisation at slower rate. The Municipal Corporation must initiate stray dog sterilisation with more efforts to check their population. Rather, stray canine sterilisation should be initiated in the tricity.Wg Cdr Jasbir Minhas (retd), MohaliPromote adoption policy in UTDog bite cases are common in Chandigarh. The Municipal Corporation should increase stray dog sterilisation in the UT. The MC can also promote stray dog adoption policy. The MC should tie-up with organisations, which need dogs for security purpose.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhDon’t dump waste in the openThe population of stray dogs is increasing in the UT. The Municipal Corporation has miserably failed in tackling dog bites in the city. To stop this, the authorities should make shelters for stray dogs. There should be space for dogs, but they should not be allowed to roam freely. People should be aware about steps to be taken in case a dog tries to bite. Sterilisation and vaccination drives by expert teams must be carried out at regular intervals. Owners of meat shops also dump waste in the open, which attracts stray canine. The MC must clear garbage heaps and close unlicensed meat shops. Animal lovers can help by rounding up strays and keeping them in custody until good homes are found for them.Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhMost victims are Senior citizens & kidsThe claims of Chandigarh MC regarding sterilisation of stray dogs seems to be incorrect. Had the sterilisation been carried out the population of stray dogs would not have increased. Whatever reason it may be, stray dog bite cases are increasing in the UT. Victims are mostly senior citizens and children. The MC should form a stray dog sterilisation teams, which should report the number of dogs sterilised on daily basis. The MC should ensure availability of anti-rabies vaccine in hospitals and dispensaries so that it could be used for the needy.Balbir Singh Batra, MohaliHuman life is more preciousDespite sterilisation of stray dogs their population is increasing. Proper record of all sterilised stray dogs needs to be maintained. Human life is precious. Yet as civilised society we cannot ignore animal rights. For this the civic authorities should relocate strays to dog pounds set up on the city periphery. Dog adoption can be encouraged to reduce the menace of strays. No feeding of stray dogs should be allowed in the city. People should feed strays at dog pounds only. The MC should implement the policy for the registration of pet dogs, identify strays in all sectors and provide free treatment to dog bite victims across the city.Dr Rajeev Kumar, ChandigarhGarbage lying in open aggravates menaceCanine menace is increasing day by day posing a threat to those, who venture out in streets or go to parks for morning/evening walk. Main reason behind this issue is garbage lying in streets and markets as strays scavenge on it. The need of the hour is sterilisation and vaccination of dogs with the help of the SPCA.Charu Malhotra, MohaliCreate dog poundsThe population of canines is increasing at an alarming pace. The MC is making less effort to check the menace. The civic body should sterilise bitches. Creation of dog pounds can restrict strays from roaming in public places. Residents on their part should not feed dogs at public places.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhDogs have rights while people don’tThe alarming dog menace, growing by the day in the tricity, proves that dogs have rights while people don't. Children and elderly are the worst hit as they are most vulnerable to dog bites. Dog sterilisation drive has not yielded desired results. Periodical culling of strays is the tried and tested remedy. Toddlers should never be left alone with a dog around, even if it is a pet. It's always better to be safe rather than sorry.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaHumanely euthanise stray dogsStray dogs can bite anytime, anywhere and anybody can be the victim. Besides, stray dogs create nuisance by littering/defecation in public places and cause serious accidents. According to the WHO reports human deaths by rabies are the highest in India. The situation being highly alarming needs immediate attention. But even after receiving directions from the High Court, the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation has virtually failed to effectively check stray dogs. Sterilisation has proved impractical and expensive. Thus, other countries go for elimination not sterilisation to prevent stray dog problems. Besides, there are clear guidelines of the Supreme Court about euthanising dog, which must be observed meticulously.SK Khosla, ChandigarhQUESTIONThe Covid-19 vaccine hesitancy in Chandigarh is over 60 per cent. What is the reason for such high indecisiveness?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sincere-efforts-not-casual-approach-can-check-menace-212424
15-02-2021||---||Civic Body Poll: 6 held for ransacking BJP candidate’s booth in Mohali||Mohali, February 14The police arrested six persons for allegedly ransacking the booth of BJP candidate from Ward No. 31 Rakhi Pathak during polling for the MC elections here today.The suspects have been identified as Avtar Singh, Udham Singh, Baljinder Singh, Tarlochan Singh, Satinder Singh and Sarbjeet Singh, all residents of Mauli Baidwan village.On a complaint filed by Suresh Kumar, Rakhi’s husband, a case under Sections 131 and132 of the Representation of People Act and 171-C, 506 and 149 of the IPC has been registered at the Sohana police station.Sohana SHO Bhagwant Singh said: “The suspects were rounded up and later arrested. The police are investigating the matter.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/civic-body-poll-6-held-for-ransacking-bjp-candidates-booth-in-mohali-212427
15-02-2021||---||Man arrested for smuggling liquor in Panchkula||Panchkula, February 14The police arrested a man for allegedly smuggling liquor on Saturday. The suspect has been identified as Karanjeet Singh of Rajiv Colony in Sector 17.The police received a tip-off that the suspect was selling country liquor without a licence or permit. After receiving secret inputs, a police team conducted raid on Rajiv Colony and nabbed the suspect. The police recovered 12 bottles of country liquor from his possession. A case has been registered at the Sector 14 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-arrested-for-smuggling-liquor-in-panchkula-212428
15-02-2021||---||Another suspect held in Rs 55L extortion case in Panchkula||Panchkula, February 14The Panchkula police today arrested another suspect in the Rs 55-lakh extortion and fraud case.The suspect has been identified as Sanjiv Kumar, a resident of Gupta Colony in Pinjore. He was produced before a court, which sent him to four-day police remand.The case pertains to a Karnal resident who had alleged that two men and some policemen had extorted Rs55.5 lakh from him and threatened to falsely implicate him in a case.A case in this regard was registered under Sections 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 384 (extortion) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 5 police station on December 8.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/another-suspect-held-in-rs-55l-extortion-case-in-panchkula-212429
15-02-2021||Chandigarh||Tennis tournament kicks off today in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association (CLTA) will organise CLTA-AITA Championship Series (CS-3) Tennis Tournament (U-16) for boys and girls from February 15 to 17. As many as 69 players have signed in for the main-draw events. Players from Chandigarh, Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand will take part in this tournament. The main draw matches will be played at the CLTA Complex, Sector 10, on February 15. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tennis-tournament-kicks-off-today-in-chandigarh-212437
15-02-2021||Chandigarh||War veteran motivates NCC cadets||A veteran of the 1971 Indo-Pak war and subsequent Sikkim operations, Brig BS Bains, today urged NCC cadets to set high ideals and develop qualities such as leadership, discipline, character, compassion and community service.Addressing cadets at the valedictory session of the Air Wing’s Combined Annual Training Camp here today, the 83-year old veteran advised the students to pursue a career in the armed forces.Dr Pawan Kumar Sharma, Principal, DAV College, Chandigarh, said the Chandigarh Air Wing was providing ample opportunities to NCC cadets, including flying training. “It had become a platform for cadets to explore and showcase their talent on the national stage,” he added.Brig Bains later presented medals to cadets who had won various competitions organised during the camp.A total of 30 cadets, including 17 girls from city colleges, attended the camp. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/war-veteran-motivates-ncc-cadets-212414
15-02-2021||---||Punjab FC beat Chennai City, top points table||Chandigarh, February 14RoundGlass Punjab FC defeated Chennai City FC 2-0 to displace Churchill Brothers on the summit of the Hero I-League points table today. The match was played at Kalyani Municipal Stadium in Kalyani, West Bengal, on Saturday.The side is now at 14 points in eight games — one point ahead of the Red Machines, who have played one game less.The game opened with fast end-to-end football, but both sides were unable to get their efforts on target. The earliest opening came in the 8th minute for Chennai City as Iqbal saw Punjab custodian Kumar off his line. However, his shot was blocked by the Punjab defence. The game died down in the next couple of minutes due to an early injury to Iqbal, forcing Satyasagara to change him with Elvedin Skrijelj.Punjab created the first big opening of the game in the 18th minute. Chencho flicked a long ball over his marker and forced a brilliant save from Chennai City’s Kabir Toufik. Both teams settled down and kept fighting hard in the middle of the park for possession, as Punjab were more penetrative and kept knocking Chennai City’s goal.In the 33rd minute, Chencho latched on to Aphaoba’s cross from the right wing. But the Bhutanese striker could not power his tame header past Kabir Toufik. Demir Avdic had an opening in the 36th minute, but the Chennai City striker skied his attempt from Sriram’s cut back. Three minutes later, Diawara met Joseba Beitia’s cross, but the striker’s header failed to trouble the Chennai goalie.The side kept pushing and reaped rewards in the 43rd minute. Souvik Das’ cross found Diawara just outside the six-yard box. The Senegalese held off a challenge from Tarif Akhand and volleyed his effort past a stranded Kabir Toufik. Chennai City sought an immediate reply through a free kick. Substitute Elvedin Skrijelj’s cross from distance was met by Demir Avdic, who yet again failed to hit the target. As a result, Punjab went into half-time with 1-0 lead.Chennai later created a rare opportunity to equalise in the 59th minute. Demir Avdic won the ball off a defender before breaking in the box and sending a bullet strike towards goal. However, Kumar produced a magnificent save, ensuring his side’s lead was safe.The game suddenly turned end-to-end. A minute later, Chencho broke from the following corner and sent in a cross for Diawara, who was inches away from slotting the second goal. In the 65th minute, Elvedin pounced on a weak clearance, but his shot from outside the area went straight into the hands of the keeper.With the clock ticking, Chennai created another opening in the 80th minute, with Avdic curling his effort towards the top corner. However, the Nepalese custodian pulled off another magnificent save to deny the Serbian.In the 84th minute, Diawara latched on to Beitia’s corner, but his header whiskered over the goal. It did not matter much though, as finally, Curtis Fleming’s team scored four minutes later. Aphaoba Singh broke on the counter, latching on to a long pass from Beitia, before sending in a dipping shot. Toufik saved the shot but sent the rebound into the path of substitute Rupert Nongrum, who made sure he remained onside and duly put the ball into an empty net.It was the last action in the game, as Curtis Fleming’s side won 2-0 in the end and displaced Churchill at the top of the Hero I-League standings.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-fc-beat-chennai-city-top-points-table-212417
15-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Polling peaceful in Fatehgarh Sahib district||Fatehgarh Sahib, February 14The polling process was peacefully completed in Sirhind-Fatehgarh Sahib, Mandi Gobindgarh, Khamano and Bassi Pathana. No untoward incident was reported from any town of the district.The voter turnout for the Municipal Council elections for the four regions stands at 74 per cent.Fatehgarh Sahib MLA Kuljit Nagra, along with his wife, cast their votes at ward number 21. He thanked voters, all officials of the administration, the polling staff and the police personnel for maintaining the law and order during the civic body elections.Addressing mediapersons, Fatehgarh Sahib Deputy Commissioner Amrit Kaur Gill and Senior Superintendent of Police Amneet Kondal thanked voters, leaders of various political parties and candidates for maintaining peace during the polling process.They said no untoward incident was recorded from any booth in Fatehgarh Sahib district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/polling-peaceful-in-fatehgarh-sahib-district-212410
15-02-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Installing defective solar panel costs company dear in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 14Installing a defective solar panel cost a company dear with the UT District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission asking it to pay Rs25,000 as compensation to a consumer for causing mental agony and harassment.The commission also directed the company to immediately install the solar panel properly at the consumer’s residence and pay Rs10,000 as litigation expenses.Vijay Mangla, a resident of Chandigarh, said he approached M/s LBWS Private Limited to purchase domestic solar panel in 2019 and paid Rs2.50 lakh to the company. The solar panel was not installed properly and it was not working since Day 1. He made several complaints to the company that the solar panel was not functioning, but to no avail.A legal notice was served upon the company. Even after the receipt of the notice, the firm failed to provide any service to the complainant. The commission served notices on the company seeking its version of the case. However, nobody appeared on the behalf of the company. So, it was proceeded ex parte.After hearing the arguments, the commission noted that the complainant had proved that the company failed to install the solar panel properly. It took no steps to provide any service to the complainant despite repeated requests and personal entreaties. The commission noted that not tending to the complaints was deficiency in service and indulgence into unfair trade practice. In view of this, the company is directed to immediately install the solar panel properly at the complainant’s residence and make it operational to his entire satisfaction. The company should also pay Rs25,000 as compensation to the complainant for deficiency in service, unfair trade practice and causing harassment and Rs10,000 as litigation expenses.Deficiency in serviceAfter hearing the arguments, the commission noted that the complainant had proved that the company failed to install the solar panel properly. It took no steps to provide any service to the complainant despite repeated requests and personal entreaties. The commission noted that not tending to the complaints was deficiency in service and indulgence into unfair trade practice.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/installing-defective-solar-panel-costs-company-dear-in-chandigarh-212412
15-02-2021||---||Most wanted criminal with Rs 5,000 bounty in police net||Panchkula, February 14The Sector 26 Crime Branch of the Panchkula police claimed to have arrested a most wanted criminal carrying a reward of Rs5,000 on his head.The suspect, identified as Ajay Kumar, alias Haddi, of Ambedkar Colony in Dhakoli, was wanted in two snatchings committed on November 18, 2020. He was produced before a court, which sent him to one-day police remand.In the first case, a panwadi having a shop in Sector 28 had alleged that four bike-borne men blocked his path near Jaisinghpura turn around 9:50 pm and snatched his wallet. The suspects also attacked him with a knife. A case was registered at the Chandimandir police station.In another case, a security guard at the Sector 26 polytechnic college was robbed of his mobile phone and a gold chain by four bike-borne men near the Sector 21 liquor vend around 10:30 pm while he was cycling to his rented accommodation in Sector 11. A case in this regard was registered at the Sector 5 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/most-wanted-criminal-with-rs-5-000-bounty-in-police-net-212432
15-02-2021||---||Health workers to get second dose in Panchkula from today||Panchkula, February 14The Panchkula Health Department will start administering the second dose of the Covid vaccine to healthcare workers from tomorrow.The second dose of the vaccine is supposed to be given to a beneficiary after a gap of 28 days from the first dose. Meanwhile, frontline workers will continue to receive the first dose simultaneously.The three sites where the second dose will be administered to healthcare workers are the Civil Hospital in Sector 6, the Raipur Rani Community Health Centre and Alchemist Hospital.Over 8,000 beneficiaries have been vaccinated in the district so far. Panchkula is leading Haryana in vaccinating maximum beneficiaries per session. The district vaccinated 81 beneficiaries per session, followed by Charkhi Dadri (65).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/health-workers-to-get-second-dose-in-panchkula-from-today-212433
15-02-2021||Chandigarh||Webinar on obesity held in Chandigarh||ITBP conducts cyclothonChandigarh: As part of the National Road Safety Month, the Chandigarh-based Transport Battalion of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police Force (ITBP) conducted a cyclothon today to spread the message of saving fuel and promoting a pollution-free environment. As many as 40 ITBP personnel, including two officers, cycled down from their campus in Behlana near the old airport to the Sukhna Lake and back. The event was led by Anand Ullagadi, the battalion’s second-in-command. The battalion also conducted a safety training programme for its drivers and mechanics. The personnel also took a pledge to obey road rules and drive safely. TNS2 Open-air gyms inauguratedChandigarh: Open-air gyms were inaugurated at Sector 27-C and Sector 28-B on Sunday. Councillor Devinder Singh Babla said it was the fourth open-air gym for Sector 27 and third for Sector 28. “Residents here are happy as it will encourage them to stay fit,” said Babla. The councillor, who was accompanied by local residents, had the gyms inaugurated by a little girl. TNSPlantation drive at Sec 21 schoolChandigarh: The Rotary Club Chandigarh Central, along with Rotaract Club of Soaring Monks, organised a plantation drive at Government Senior Secondary School, Sector 21, on Sunday. The Rotarians adopted one fruit sapling each by putting their nameplates on them. TNSShooting c’ship from Feb 23Chandigarh: The 45th Chandigarh State Shooting Championship will be held at Patiala-ki-Rao Shooting Range, Sector 25, from February 23 to 27. The championship will be organised by the Chandigarh Rifle Association for .177 Air Rifle/Pistol, .22 Rifle, .22 Standard Pistol, .22 Free Pistol, .22 Sports Pistol and Centre Fire Pistol events for men and women. Those interested can confirm their entries with the organisers. TNSSt Joseph’s log 139-run victoryChandigarh: Meet Dahiya posted 72 off 76 balls to help St Joseph’s School, Sector 44, defeat Sunrise XI, Zirakpur, by 139 runs in the Covid Fighters U-13 League-cum-Knockout Tournament on Sunday. Batting first, the Sector 44 team posted 304/8 in 40 overs with the help of Dahiya, Aditya Ladoo (55), Harnoor Singh Nanda (55) and Angad Singh (25). In reply, the Zirakpur team posted 165 runs before getting all out in 26.5 overs. Tanmay Pratap Singh (46) and Rajat Dhiman (34) were the only two main performers for the batting side. Bhavishay Sharma (4/26) was the pick of the bowlers and Nanda claimed 3/14. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/webinar-on-obesity-held-in-chandigarh-212434
15-02-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Woman succumbs, 18 infected in Chandigarh||No death, 20 test positive in MohaliMohali: Twenty fresh cases of Covid-19 surfaced in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 19,779. Meanwhile, 19 more patients were cured of the disease. No fresh fatality was reported in the district till Sunday evening, keeping the toll at 377. So far, 19,012 patients have been cured. — TNSEight new cases in Panchkula Panchkula: The district reported eight fresh cases of coronavirus on Sunday, taking the overall tally to 10,666. With no new fatality, the Covid toll remained 147. While 10,436 patients have recovered from the disease so far, 83 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 97.84 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-woman-succumbs-18-infected-in-chandigarh-212438
15-02-2021||Dera Bassi||BJP leader, 3 others hurt in clashes at Dera Bassi||Four persons, including the BJP candidate from Ward No. 12 of the local Municipal Council, Mukesh Gandhi, were injured in clashes during polling here today.Gandhi alleged that Congress candidate Lakhwinder Singh Lucky and his 40-50 supporters attacked him around 3.30 pm. Gandhi’s supporters and a few residents alleged that there was an attempt to capture the booth, which they resisted resulting in the attack. Lucky, however, denied all charges levelled against him by Gandhi. The police later apprehended unidentified youths from near the Congress booth.Gurbakshish Singh Mann, Dera Bassi DSPAs of now, no case has been registered at Dera Bassi. Two or three persons have been injured. They have gone for CT scans. Therefore, their statements could not be recorded.Dera Bassi SDM Kuldeep Bawa said: “There was no incident of physical violence at Zirakpur, Dera Bassi and Lalru. There may have been incidents of verbal altercations between candidates and their supporters. Polling, by and large, remained peaceful.”Meanwhile, SAD candidate from Ward No. 12 Harvinder Singh Pinka’s supporter, Madan Lal, suffered head injuries when unidentified youths attacked him after barging into his house. Madan Lal was admitted to the Dera Bassi Civil Hospital from where he was referred to the GMCH-32. Pinka alleged Congress candidate Rajiv Sharma and his supporters were behind the attack. The police reached the spot and brought the situation under control.In Ward No. 14, Congress candidate Ranjit Singh Reddy and former Dera Bassi Municipal Council head Harjinder Singh Rangi traded allegations of bogus voting, following which the police had to intervene and bring the situation under control.At Saidpura (Ward No. 8), BJP candidate Nirmal Singh Nimma and Congress candidate Jaswinder Singh Saini clashed with each other over a row relating to polling agent Roshan Lal. The supporters of both candidates suffered minor injuries. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjp-leader-3-others-hurt-in-clashes-at-dera-bassi-212439
15-02-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||60% polling in Mohali district||Tribune News ServiceMohali, February 14About 60 per cent polling was witnessed in the elections to the Mohali MC and seven municipal councils in the district today. Of a total of 4,78,503 electorate, 2,87,479 voters (1,51,034 men, 1,36,444 women and one transgender) exercised their franchise in the district.In Mohali MC, 56 per cent polling was witnessed this year compared to 61 per cent in 2015, showing a decline of 5 pc. In Mohali, of a total 1,05,229 voters, 57,881 voters exercised their franchise.District Election Officer Girish Dayalan said voting for the Mohali MC and seven Municipal Councils in the district was conducted peacefully and smoothly. He said enthusiasm was witnessed among voters at Banur which saw 77.91 per cent polling, followed by Lalru with 75.91 per cent. In Kurali, 69.24 per cent polling was witnessed while in Nayagaon 65.90 per cent votes were polled. At Kharar, only 58 per cent voters cast their vote. At Dera Bassi, 65.69 per cent voters exercised their right to franchise while at Zirakpur, the turnout was 55.53 per cent.While praising the entire polling staff for performing their duty very well, he thanked the people of the district and all political parties for their cooperation.The polling began on a slow note. But as the day progressed, the voting percentage increased across the district. After the polling began at 8 am, only 12.5 per cent voting was witnessed till 10 am in the Mohali Municipal Corporation. It was 13 per cent at Kurali, 12 per cent at Zirakpur, 19.69 per cent at Lalru, 14.48 per cent at Dera Bassi, 17 per cent at Nayagaon and 15 per cent at Banur. At about 12 noon, the polling picked up to 26.5 per cent in Mohali , 31 per cent at Banur, 35.2 per cent at Kurali, 22 per cent at Kharar, 35 per cent at Nayagaon, 42.35 per cent at Lalru, 31. 24 per cent at Dera Bassi and 23 per cent at Zirakpur.After two hours at 2 pm, 15 per cent increase in polling was witnessed in the Mohali MC taking the total voting percentage to 41.5 per cent.Specially abled left in the lurchIn Ward No. 33 of Sohana, specially abled people had to face problems as there was no wheelchair. The family members had to carry them on their shoulders to the polling booth.Long queues in Ward No. 1 of Mohali MCA long queue was witnessed in Ward No. 1 of the Mohali MC and voters had to wait from 45 minutes to an hour to cast their votes. Surinder Kaur said she had to wait for about 50 minutes in a queue before she could cast her vote. The Residents Welfare Society of the same ward had started a community kitchen to encourage voters to come out of their houses and exercise their right to franchise.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/60-polling-in-mohali-district-212423
15-02-2021||---||Chandigarh Mayor to get matter probed||Chandigarh, February 14Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma today said the matter related with the MC returning cheques for Rs72 lakh to an advertisement agency would be investigated.The OSD of the civic body had granted permission for displaying ads on a mobile van and later returned cheques for Rs72 lakh received for the purpose. The matter was highlighted in Chandigarh Tribune.“I will get the approval checked and ascertain under what norms was the offer rejected,” the Mayor told Chandigarh Tribune.The advertisement agency had given Rs72 lakh in the form of two cheques after getting the permission from the civic body. However, the MC later returned the cheques without giving any proper reason. It had cited some “administrative reasons” for this.The firm had planned to start 10 such vans in two months. It would have fetched the MC about Rs8-9 crore. A van carrying ads was to be stationed at a parking lot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mayor-to-get-matter-probed-212435
15-02-2021||---||Groom casts vote before leaving for wedding venue in Mohali||Mohali, February 14To encourage residents to cast their vote in the Municipal Corporation elections, a bridegroom from Ward No. 4 today exercised his franchise on the day of his wedding.The poll staff at booth number 12 in the ward were taken aback as bridegroom Baljeet Singh, along with his parents, arrived there to cast his vote in the morning. He phoned his fiancee and asked her to vote first and then come for the wedding. He was dressed in silver-coloured sherwani paired with a violet turban. Baljeet said: “I have come to exercise my right to franchise as I have a responsibility to elect the suitable representative from my ward for carrying out development activities. I, along with my parents, paid obeisance at a local gurdwara before coming to the polling booth. Voting is important to me, whether it is for the Lok Sabha, Assembly or municipal elections.”“I am lucky that there is no rush at the polling booth and I could cast my vote within a few minutes. We had informed the girl’s parents that there could be some delay in their arrival at the marriage venue as they would first cast their vote. I have also told them to cast their vote for the MC elections in their area,” he said.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan tweeted wishing Baljeet a happy married life.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/groom-casts-vote-before-leaving-for-wedding-venue-in-mohali-212436
15-02-2021||Mohali||Candidate of Azad Group demands repolling at 2 booths in Mohali||The Azad Group candidate from Ward No. 10, Paramjeet Singh Kahlon, has lodged a complaint with the State Election Commission against Congress candidate Amarjeet Singh Sidhu. In his complaint, Kahlon alleged that members of Congress, aided by the police, captured the polling booth in Phase VII. He alleged that his election agents for booth number 32 and 33, Punjab Singh Kand and Rajinder Pal Singh, respectively, were forcefully and illegally evicted by the police on the directions of a senior police officer.The complainant alleged that Congress leader Devinder Singh Babla from Chandigarh was illegally allowed inside booth number 32. However, Babla said he had come to support the Congress candidate and had not entered any polling booth. Kahlon urged the State Election Commissioner to order repolling in the two booths of Ward No. 10. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/candidate-of-azad-group-demands-repolling-at-2-booths-in-mohali-212430
15-02-2021||---||Khuda Ali Sher man kills self||Chandigarh, February 14A man reportedly committed suicide at his house in Khuda Ali Sher today evening.The victim has been identified as Wajid Khan. He was alone in his house as members of his family had gone to attend a wedding in Saharanpur, Uttar Pradesh.The police said the information about the incident was received at 3.40 pm. When the cops reached the spot, the victim was already taken to the GMSH, Sector 16, in a private vehicle. The police said the victim’s wife, Yashmin, had called her father-in-law, Murtza, to inform that her husband was going to commit suicide. On getting the information, victim’s brothers Mubarik Khan and Mohsin Khan reached Khuda Ali Sher, but Wajid had already committed suicide by hanging himself. He was rushed to the hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. Inquest proceedings have been initiated by the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/khuda-ali-sher-man-kills-self-212431
15-02-2021||Sandeep Rana||Only 25% enrolled garbage collectors use Chandigarh Municipal Corporation vehicles||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 14Only 147 door-to-door waste collectors out of 609 enrolled with the Municipal Corporation are deployed on garbage-lifting vehicles in the city.According to the MC, 1,342 garbage collectors are operating in the city. The MC procured the figure from its chief sanitary inspectors on February 2.Despite several notices, the remaining collectors, who are operating carts, have not registered with the MC to work as helper or driver on its vehicles. Now, the corporation is forced to think of hiring manpower through outsourcing.The agenda regarding its approval will be taken up in the House meeting on Monday. The House will also discuss the MoU to being signed with the collectors. If the plans of the civic body get a go-ahead from the House, several collectors, who are not ready to work under the MC, may be rendered jobless.The corporation started the waste collection in Sector 1-30 through its vehicles replacing the system of existing carts. The civic body would collect monthly fee from the houses through 150 POS machines. Subsequently, in the second phase, more sectors will be covered by the MC. Thus, the collectors operating there earlier will too have the option either to work in the corporation or leave the work.A collectors’ union, led by Shamsher Lotiya, has been protesting outside the MC building since the civic body started its first phase of collecting garbage through its vehicles. “We want the existing system of garbage collection through carts to continue and collectors should be allowed to collect monthly charges,” Lotiya said.Another union, led by OP Saini, earlier met Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma and claimed to have agreed to the MC stand. However, the consensus is yet to translate into registrations of collectors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/only-25-enrolled-garbage-collectors-use-chandigarh-municipal-corporation-vehicles-212408
