16-02-2021||Chandigarh||29 new COVID-19 cases recorded in Chandigarh||Chandigarh's COVID-19 infection count climbed to 21,293 on Tuesday with 29 more people testing positive for the disease, according to a medical bulletin.The death of a 75-year-old man took the toll in the UT to 347, it stated.There are 133 active cases as of now, as per the bulletin.Twenty-four more patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of total recoveries to 20,813.A total of 2,36,728 samples have been tested for COVID-19 so far, and of them, 2,14,491 have tested negative, while reports of 176 samples were awaited. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/29-new-covid-19-cases-recorded-in-chandigarh-213276
16-02-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Manika Sheokand, who won VLCC Femina Miss Grand India 2020, reaches Panchkula; story in pictures||For the first time in its history, Femina Miss India was held entirely digitally owing to the COVID pandemic.While Manasa Varanasi won the Miss India World 2020 title, Manika Sheokand won the Miss Grand India 2020 tag.The Miss India Runner-up, who resides in Panchkula, was welcomed by her family after winning the title on Tuesday.Manika, who was VLCC Femina Miss India Haryana 2020, started modelling in 2019. — With IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/manika-sheokand-who-won-vlcc-femina-miss-grand-india-2020-reaches-panchkula-story-in-pictures-213212
16-02-2021||---||Booths 32 and 33 of Ward No 10 in Mohali to have repolling on Wednesday||Mohali, February 16The State Election Commission on Tuesday ordered repolling in Booths 32 and 33 of Ward No 10 in Mohali.The repolling will be held on February 17 from 8 am to 4 pm.The counting of votes only for the Mohali Municipal Corporation has been deferred from February 17 to February 18.On February 14, the Azad Group candidate from Ward No. 10, Paramjeet Singh Kahlon, has lodged a complaint with the State Election Commission against Congress candidate Amarjeet Singh Sidhu. In his complaint, Kahlon alleged that members of Congress, aided by the police, captured the polling booth in Phase VII. He alleged that his election agents for booth number 32 and 33, Punjab Singh Kand and Rajinder Pal Singh, respectively, were forcefully and illegally evicted by the police on the directions of a senior police officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/booths-32-and-33-of-ward-no-10-in-mohali-to-have-repolling-on-wednesday-213210
16-02-2021||Chandigarh||Row with tenant turns ugly, 3 gunshots fired in Sector 15||Five persons, including Mannu Dubey, the husband of Chandigarh Mahila Congress president Deipa Asdhir Dubey, have been booked on a charge of opening fire outside Dubey’s house in Sector 15. The suspects allegedly fired three gunshots to threaten the house tenant and his friends, who were also “assaulted”, on the intervening night of February 14 and 15.Bid to mislead cops?The police said the suspect, Mannu Dubey, tried to mislead them by claiming that his tenant Gurdass Singh’s friends had opened fire after an argument broke out between them.Complainant Gurdass Singh (23), a native of Sangrur district, reported that he, along with his friend Deepak, has been residing at the house for the past one year. He said on February 14, his friends Gurdeep Singh, Bhupinder, Ravi, Sunil, Gurmeet and Gagan visited the house to meet him.The complainant said around 9.30 pm, he and his friends were going out to have dinner when the house owner, Mannu Dubey, and his accomplices obstructed their way and started arguing with him over repeatedly inviting outsiders to the house. Mannu and his accomplices allegedly thrashed the complainant and his friend Ravi.The police said after the incident, the complainant and Ravi went to another house in Sector 15, where Ravi’s friends Manjit and Ashish also arrived.Later during the night, the complainant and his friends returned to the rented accommodation to collect their belongings and their car, which was parked outside the house. In the meantime, Mannu and his accomplices — Jenta, Nikhil, Vishal and Tarsem Singh — who were carrying sticks and arms, caught hold of Manjit and started assaulting him. The police said Jenta reportedly fired gunshots into the air to threaten the victims and later escaped from the spot.Mannu Dubey then informed the police and claimed that Gurdass Singh’s friends had opened fire. A case under Sections 341, 323, 336, 147, 149 and 506 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered against the suspects at the Sector 11 police station. The police said the suspects were yet to be arrested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/row-with-tenant-turns-ugly-3-gunshots-fired-in-sector-15-212939
16-02-2021||Chandigarh||CBI nabs Chandigarh cop for graft||Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) sleuths today nabbed an ASI while allegedly taking a bribe of Rs10,000.The CBI had received a complaint from Dharmpal, who is part of the housekeeping staff at the 3BRD Air Force Station, Chandigarh. He alleged that ASI Harbhajan Singh, posted at the Sector 34 police station, was demanding a bribe from him.The police had received a complaint from a financier against Dharmpal for the alleged non-payment of a loan amount. The ASI was seeking a bribe from Dharmpal for not registering a case against him. In 2018, Dharmpal had taken a loan of Rs3.20 lakh from Mittal Financier in Sector 32. Dharmpal paid 29 instalments of Rs16,000 each, totalling Rs4.64 lakh, till October 2020. He claimed that he stopped paying the instalments as the financier was not giving him the receipts.Dharmpal reported that he received a call from the ASI on February 4, asking him to meet at Sector 32. Dharmpal went to meet the ASI on February 5 and he allegedly demanded Rs 20,000 bribe from him. The complainant gave him Rs3,000 on the spot and the remaining amount was to be given later. Dharmpal was supposed to give Rs10,000 to the ASI today. He informed the CBI following which a trap was laid and the ASI caught red-handed.The CBI has registered a case against the ASI, who will be produced in a local court tomorrow. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cbi-nabs-chandigarh-cop-for-graft-212940
16-02-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Housing Board goes digital with e-Office||Slow clearance of files has become a thing of the past at the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB). The board has become the first in the UT to fully implement the e-Office module in all its departments.“The CHB has switched over to e-Office to avoid physical movement of files. Now, almost all files are moving digitally and the system of physical movement of files has been done away,” said a senior official of the CHB.Except some unavoidable reasons, no file would be moved physically, he said, adding that all official noting was done online only.Initially, the board had implemented the e-Office module in the administrative, legal branch and computer section. Later, other remaining braches, sections and wings were covered under the programme, he added.“Now, all departments send their files online for approval,” said the official, adding that it was now taking nearly half of the time taken earlier for approvals.Now, a ‘Dak’, application or an official order received at the reception, is scanned to convert it into ‘e-Dak’. The reception then forwards the ‘e-Dak’ to the official concerned through the e-Office module.With the implementation of e-Office, it was now taking nearly 15-20 days to clear a file whereas, earlier, it used to take nearly 30 to 40 days, said the official. For digitisation of the files and implementation of the system, employees were trained by officials of the National Informatics Centre (NIC).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-housing-board-goes-digital-with-e-office-212941
16-02-2021||Chandigarh||Mobile van ad issue rocks civic body House meeting||The issue of advertisements on mobile vans, which was recently highlighted by Chandigarh Tribune, was raised in the MC House meeting today, but questions still remain unanswered.Leader of Opposition Devinder Singh Babla asked MC Commissioner KK Yadav as to why the huge revenue opportunity that came to the MC was turned down even after getting the approval?“The MC is short of funds due to which several works are lying pending. But we have failed to earn revenue,” he said.On this, Yadav feigned ignorance over the revenue amount that was reportedly returned to the firm concerned. Chandigarh Tribune, however, has documentary proof in this regard. “I will have to check whether the amount has been refunded,” he said. On this, Babla replied: “Your Officer on Special Duty (OSD), Hemant Yadav, has stated in the report that the amount was returned, then how can you say that you don’t know about it?” Yadav said: “The OSD is not the authorised official to comment.”The MC chief later said the private agency concerned and the corporation were in talks over whether to give the contract for six months or five years. He said they would again ask the agency to submit a proposal.However, as per the documents, the MC had granted the permission to Decode Advertising Pvt Ltd on January 5 for displaying advertisements on an LED mobile van for five years. In this letter, the civic body had asked to submit the fee.Following this, the firm paid Rs72 lakh as the fee through two cheques, which the MC returned about a month later due to some “administrative reasons.” The agency had planned to start about 10 such vans in two months. This could have fetched the MC Rs8-9 crore in revenue. The MC had taken six months to grant the approval. However, after granting permission, they returned the amount without any specific reason. Meanwhile, many vehicles with ads ply in the city illegally and without paying any fee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mobile-van-ad-issue-rocks-civic-body-house-meeting-212942
16-02-2021||Panchkula||173 health workers get 2nd jab in Panchkula||The process of administering the second dose of the Covid vaccine began at several centres in the district today. A total of 173 healthcare workers turned up for getting the second dose. The number of overall beneficiaries — for both first and second dose — was 543. The district exceeded its target of vaccinating 535 beneficiaries.The coverage rate stood at 101.49 per cent. The health officers who received the second dose included Suraj Bhan Kamboj, Director General, Health Services; VK Bansal, Director, Maternal and Child Health Programme (Haryana); Parveen Sethi, Director, Dental Department (Haryana); Dr Suvir Saxena, Principal Medical Officer, Civil Hospital; Dr Meenu Sasan, District Immunisation Officer; Dr Sanjeev Goyal, SMO, Community Health Centre, Raipur Rani; and Dr Mankirat, Consultant, Civil Hospital.As many as 8,705 beneficiaries — 4,328 healthcare workers and 4,377 frontline workers — have been vaccinated in the district so far. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/173-health-workers-get-2nd-jab-in-panchkula-212943
16-02-2021||Mohali||25 beneficiaries in Mohali||The second dose of the Covid vaccine was administered to 25 healthcare workers, who had received the first jab on January 16, in Mohali district today. As many as 4,776 healthcare workers and 1,286 frontline workers, including police, revenue and other department officials, have received the Covid vaccine in the district so far.Civil Surgeon Adarshpal Kaur said three healthcare workers and 92 frontline workers were also administered the first dose today. With this, 54 per cent healthcare and frontline workers have received the vaccine in the past 31 days.2 more deaths in Mohali districtMohali: Two more fatalities due to Covid were witnessed in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 379. Meanwhile, 19 fresh cases surfaced, while 22 more patients were cured of the disease. Among the fresh cases, 12 were reported from Mohali (urban), three from Dhakoli and four from Dera Bassi. The district has so far seen 19,798 cases, while 19,034 patients have been cured. There are now 385 active cases. TNSEarlier, District Immunisation Officer Dr Veena Jarewal, district hospital SMO Dr Vijay Bhagat, SMO Dr HS Cheema and other health officials had received the first dose. Dr Adarshpal Kaur said the vaccination drive was being carried out under the supervision of specialist doctors. She said the vaccine was safe and so far, no side effects had been reported. She appealed to people not to hesitate from getting themselves vaccinated.The Civil Surgeon said people still needed to be cautious. For any information, the Health Department’s helpline (104) could be contacted, she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/25-beneficiaries-in-mohali-212944
16-02-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 26 fresh cases||12 more infected in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Monday reported 12 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the overall tally to 10,678. The Covid toll remained at 147. While 10,437 patients have recovered from the disease so far, 94 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 97.74 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-26-fresh-cases-212945
16-02-2021||Mohali||Minister’s car at college housing EVMs raises eyebrows||High drama was witnessed at Kharar when the car of Technical Education Minister Charanjit Singh Channi dropped a woman at a college in Khunimajra village where electronic voting machines (EVMs) have been kept for the counting of votes for the Kharar Municipal Council.As soon as candidates contesting the elections learnt about this, they held a protest demanding that the woman should be asked to leave the college.Channi clears the airCabinet Minister Charanjit Singh Channi said his niece was teaching in the college and his brother’s car had dropped her on the college premises. He said the protesters had unnecessarily raised a hue and cry.Candidates Harjit Singh Ganja, Malagar Singh, Maan Singh Manna and others said since no one was allowed to go around the strongroom, how come a woman was allowed to enter the college premises.Tehsildar Gurmandar Singh visited the spot and took the protesting candidates with him inside and showed them the strongroom where the EVMs have been kept. The Tehsildar said the woman was a teacher and her husband had come to drop her. However, the protesters did not relent.SDM Himanshu Jain told the candidates that the administration was working in an impartial manner. He said the candidates could install their CCTV cameras inside, if they wanted. He said CCTV cameras had already been installed in the room and a team of 11 persons was guarding it. He said if the candidates wanted, the CCTV recording could be provided to them. After this, the protesters ended their dharna.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ministers-car-at-college-housing-evms-raises-eyebrows-212946
16-02-2021||Deepankar Sharda||COA elections on March 17||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 15After a tug-of-war of almost three months, the president of the Chandigarh Olympic Association (COA) has finally issued a circular to conduct the elections for choosing the next House.The annual general body meeting is now scheduled for March 17. The circular came a few days after COA general secretary Maha Singh organised an unofficial gathering, a show of strength.Action for giving affiliations?Source claimed that the office-bearers are now planning to take action against those counterparts who allegedly issued bogus/non-approved affiliations to some associations to ensure votes and also under alleged financial discrepancies. “The House should also discuss the possibilities of choosing their representative who belongs to Chandigarh instead of choosing someone who is not a resident of Chandigarh, nor has the knowledge of local sport,” said an office-bearer.The COA president, Amarinder Singh Bazaz, and Maha Singh have been at loggerheads, after completing their last four-year term together, since the tenure of this house ended in November 2020.Both are doing their part to retain COA’s power for next tenure, despite the fact that the COA has not conducted a single state championship in the past 14 years (including their last term).The main agendas of this meeting (March 17) includes confirmation of the minutes of the last annual general meeting, considering and approval of audited statements of accounts (to be submitted by the COA general secretary and the treasurer), appointment of auditors for the next financial year, elections for the next term (2021-25), considering and approval for the annual activity calendar and any other point with the permission of chair.Earlier this month, Bazaz had asked Maha Singh to submit a detailed report on giving affiliation to various associations, which was allegedly given under ‘no-authority’ and without consulting House. A warning letter was issued to Maha Singh.Elections as per NSDCIn the past, many COA members maintained that they were not bound to follow the National Sports Development Code (NSDC). However, the recent circular depicts a different story. It has been cleared that the elections will be held as per the constitution of the COA, the Indian Olympic Association (IOA) and the model election guidelines of the NSDC-2011 implemented by the UT Sports Department. This development is likely to restrict the likes of Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, Sports Minister (Punjab) and life president of COA, from contesting the top post. Sodhi had confirmed to the media on contesting the post of COA president. Maha Singh had announced that he would run for general secretary in the COA elections. Sodhi’s son, Anumit Singh Sodhi, is the treasurer of the COA.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coa-elections-on-march-17-212947
16-02-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University holds outreach activity||The University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences (UIPS), Panjab University, contributed to the Rashtriya Aavishkar Abhiyan (RAA) in collaboration with Government Model School, Sector 8B.Rashtriya Avishkar Abhiyan is a novel concept developed and launched on July 9, 2015, by Late Dr APJ Abdul Kalam, former President of India, and it is still running successfully by Ministry of Human Resource Development. The aim is to inculcate a spirit of inquisitiveness, creativity, excitement and love for science and mathematics in schoolchildren through inside and outside classroom activities, observation and experimentation.The RAA was organised at the school where Dr Anurag Kuhad, Dr Neelima Dhingra, Dr Sangeeta Pilkhwal Sah and Dr Ranjana Bhandari, Assistant Professors of UIPS, interacted with Class XI and XII students of science and humanities. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-holds-outreach-activity-212948
16-02-2021||Chandigarh||84,000 take Panjab University online exams||Around 84,000 students of undergraduate, postgraduate and other professional courses took the online examinations conducted by Panjab University today. A total of 78 examinations were conducted in two slots of 9.30am-12.30 pm and 1.30pm-4.30 pm.The colleges downloaded the question papers as per the scheduled time from the PU website and the official email IDs provided to them. The question papers were further distributed to students through various electronic modes, said a spokesperson.Prof Raj Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, remained connected with the Controller of Examination. Dr Jagat Bhushan, Controller of Examination, said many queries received were resolved by their team. “Around 2,86,812 students will be taking various exams being conducted by the PU,” said Bhushan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/84-000-take-panjab-university-online-exams-212949
16-02-2021||Chandigarh||Is there a regular CVO, High Court asks Chandigarh||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today asked the UT Administration to apprise the Bench whether a regular Chief Vigilance Officer (CVO) was functioning in Chandigarh. A Division Bench of the High Court also asked the Administration and other respondents to come out with the details of a Vigilance inquiry, if pending, on a representation filed by the Marble Arch Residents Welfare Association.Flats for EWSThe petitioner’s counsel said M/s Uppal Housing Private Limited did not undertake any activity for raising flats for the EWS category. In March 2016, however, they decided to raise another tower for the construction of flats for the EWS. Even permission for this was granted by the authority concerned. Thereafter, the petitioner-association made representations and a Vigilance inquiry was also instituted. However, the petitioner-association had no inkling about the fate of the Vigilance inquiry.As a petition filed by the residents’ welfare association came up for hearing, the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh was told that that the site for M/s Uppal Housing Private Limited was auctioned for approximately Rs108 crore. In the brochure issued thereafter, it was promised that 168 flats of three/four bedrooms would be constructed in nine towers.Believing the representation, the petitioner-association purchased the flats. Possession was, thereafter, handed over to the allottees and sale deeds were also executed. As the matter was being dealt with by the Municipal Corporation, Chandigarh, the petitioner-association was confident that the civic body would act in a transparent manner.The petitioner’s counsel added M/s Uppal Housing Private Limited did not undertake any activity for raising flats for the economically weaker section (EWS) category. In March 2016, however, they decided to raise another tower for the construction of flats for the EWS. Even permission for this construction was granted by the authority concerned. Thereafter, the petitioner-association made representations and a Vigilance inquiry was also instituted. However, the petitioner-association had no inkling about the fate of the Vigilance inquiry.Issuing a notice of motion, the Bench asserted: “The court also be apprised whether a regular CVO is functioning in Chandigarh. In case assertion of the petitioner as regards pendency of a Vigilance inquiry is correct, the court may be apprised whether any progress has been made in such an inquiry. The authority concerned shall be at liberty to file an affidavit in this regard”. The case will now come up for hearing in February last week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/is-there-a-regular-cvo-high-court-asks-chandigarh-212950
16-02-2021||Chandigarh||Footprints can tell about body size||A research conducted by Dr Kewal Krishan, Associate Professor and former chairperson of department of anthropology, Panjab University, and his student, Dr Richa Mukhra, has shown that the footprints may give clues about the body size of a person.Dr Richa has recently been awarded a PhD on the basis of this research conducted under the guidance of Dr Krishan. Now, it has been well established that footprints and the related evidence recovered from the scene of a crime may help investigating agencies and the police to nab the perpetrators.In this research, Dr Krishan and Dr Richa have established a relationship between the body mass index (BMI) and the footprints of a person. The findings suggest that the BMI of an individual is directly related to the making of a footprint on the floor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/footprints-can-tell-about-body-size-212951
16-02-2021||Chandigarh||Financial fraud is like murder, rape: CBI Court||While stating that financial fraud is like a murder and rape, Dr Sushil Kumar Garg, Special Judge, CBI Court, Chandigarh, has awarded four-year rigorous imprisonment (RI) to a former bank manager and a businessman holding them guilty in connection with an eight-year-old fraud case with a bank.The accused - Inderjit Singh, former manager of Punjab and Sind Bank, and Tarsem Lal Singla Director of M/s Aakriti Construction - were convicted under Section 120-B read with Sections 420, 468 and 471 of the Indian Penal Code, Sections 13 (1) (d) read with Section 13 (2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, and Section 420 of the IPC.Fine imposedThe court also imposed a fine of Rs5 lakh on Inderjit Singh and Rs10 lakh each on businessman Singla and his company M/s Aakriti Construction through its director Singla.The court also imposed a fine of Rs5 lakh on Inderjit Singh and Rs10 lakh each on businessman Singla and his company M/s Aakriti Construction through its director Singla.The CBI Court has acquitted another accused, GS Batra, who was also a former bank official. The CBI had registered the case in June 2013 in New Delhi following a complaint received from the manager of the New Delhi branch of the bank alleging a fraud of approximately Rs3.50 crore.The case was registered against two bank officials - Inderjit Singh and GS Batra – and Tarsem Lal Singla for allegedly cheating under various sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act. As per the FIR, the accused in connivance with each caused a huge loss to the bank by using bogus documents in the name of construction at Baddi in Himachal Pradesh.It was alleged in the chargesheet that Singla had taken a loan from Punjab and Sind Bank to set up a hospital in Baddi town in Himachal Pradesh by submitting fake documents and in connivance with bank officials, which caused a huge loss to the bank. It was alleged that the fake entries were made by the officials who did not maintain the proper record of the loan file. The CBI had filed a chargesheet in November, 2013.While counsels of the convicts sought lenient view during the hearings, public prosecutor KP Singh argued in the favour of exemplary punishment in order to check rampant corruption in public life.The CBI Court said: “The purpose of the sentence is that the accused must realise that they had committed an act, which is not only harmful to society of which they form an integral part but also harmful to their own future, both as an individual and as a member of society. Accused Inderjit Singh and Tarsem Lal Singla have committed economic offences, which are detrimental to financial health of the country. Therefore, financial fraud is like a murder and rape.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/financial-fraud-is-like-murder-rape-cbi-court-212952
16-02-2021||Panchkula||Haryana CM inaugurates table tennis c’ship||Reigning women’s singles champion Sutirtha Mukherjee seems to have a distinct advantage over the rest of the players in the fray of the UTT 82nd Senior National Table Tennis Championship started at Tau Devi Lal Stadium in Sector 3, here, today. The opening day of the championship saw one round of group matches.The top-eight rankings - Manika Batra (PSPB), Sutirtha Mukherjee (Haryana), Ayhika Mukherjee (RBI), Sreeja Akula, Krittwika Sinha Roy (PSPB), Anusha Kutumbale (TTFI), Prapti Sen (Ben ‘A’) and Kaushani Nath (Railways) - will participate in the championship.Sutirtha may well have been top-seeded for the championship if the national rankings alone were to be considered. But Manika just beat the Haryana player on the strength of her world ranking. The onus is on the multiple international medal winners to make use of the opportunity and prove that she deserves the limelight.On the other hand, No. 2 Sutirtha has competed in the state championships held at Sonepat in December. The experience of playing matches can never replace any amount of practice one does, day in and day out. Even before that, Sutirtha was a part of the 42-day national camp, also held at the same place. There, she was able to rub shoulders with other top paddlers of the country.Except for Manika, all other ranked players had participated in the state championships to qualify for the event.Meanwhile, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar inaugurated the championship at a function, which included the march past by the participants. Dushyant Chautala, Deputy Chief Minister and president of the Table Tennis Federation of India (TTFI), appreciated the help extended by the Haryana Government to make the championship a success.Khel Ratna Manika Batra, Arjuna Awardee Madhurika Patkar and former national champions K Shamini, Archana Kamath and Ankita Das were awarded during the opening ceremony. The main draw events, which will take place tomorrow evening, will involve participation of all top seeds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/haryana-cm-inaugurates-table-tennis-cship-212954
16-02-2021||Mohali||Shrawasti enters tennis quarterfinals||Top seed Shrawasti Kundliya defeated Aashi Kashyap 8-0 in a girls’ U-12 pre-quarterfinal match on the opening day of the Roots-AITA CS (III) National Ranking Championship in Zirakpur. Sehaj Lakhar also moved ahead by defeating Krittika Sharma 8-5, while Diya Chaudhary defeated Priyanshi Katial 8-6 and Ekam Kaur ousted Vanshika Yadav 8-5, Shauryaa Pathak defeated Avni Khatak 8-9 and second seed Sherry Sharma defeated Rabiah Duliat 8-0 in other matches.Shiva winsTop seed Shiva Sharma defeated Devansh Kamboj 8-3 to reach the boys’ U-12 quarterfinals. Himanish Brinda also marched ahead by defeating Kirtarth Singh 8-4, while Aarush Sharma defeated Mahijith Singh 8-5. Second seed Sanidhya Singh logged a one-sided win over Sarthak Jaglan 8-0 and Aarav Bishnoi defeated Tanishq Makhija 8-1. In other matches, Ayaan Modi defeated Mehtaab Singh 8-6, Abhinav Chaudhary ousted Advit Tiwari 8-5 and Kanav Bansal beat Akhil Beniwal 8-2. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shrawasti-enters-tennis-quarterfinals-212955
16-02-2021||Chandigarh||Aditya seals berth in quarters||Top seed Aditya Chauhan of Haryana marched into the boys’ U-16 quarterfinals by defeating Yash Jindal 8-2 on the opening day of the CLTA-AITA Championship Series (CS-3) Tennis Tournament today.Second seed and local contender Anirudh Sangra also confirmed his berth in the final-eight by defeating Punjab’s Arpit Garg 8-2. Third seed Punjab’s Ekamjeet Singh Cheema overpowered Anhad Singh Oberoi 8-0, whereas Anuj Pal played well to record a stunning 8-7(6) win over fourth seed Evaan Luthra. Shraey Vir defeated Umang Singh Cogi without conceding a single game 8-0, while fifth seed local challenger Arnav Bishnoi outplayed Varchasva Thapliyal from Uttarakhand 8-6. Another local player Yash Solanky earned win against seventh seed Punjab’s Jai Yadav 8-7(3) and Gurbaaz Singh Dhanoa also qualified for the quarterfinals by defeating Birkaran Singh 8-4.Meanwhile, in the girls’ U-16 pre-quarterfinal, top seed and Chandigarh’s Maitreyi Phogat defeated Isheeta Midha 8-4. Sia Mahajan defeated Anaya Dogra and Angelina Singh ousted Inaaya Mittal by identical scores of 8-1.Rubani Kaur Sidhu also moved ahead by defeating Shriya Singh 8-2, while fifth seed Bhumi Kakkar outplayed Rasha Dhaliwal 8-2. In last three matches, Radha Sadhra defeated Sidhak Kaur 8-5, Mehakpreet Kaur ousted Anandita Sharma 8-4 and Vanya Arora overpowered Ira Chadha 8-0.Results (1st round)Boys’ U-16: Aditya Chauhan bt Raghav Chaudhary 8-0, Yash Jindal bt Mehraab Singh Rai 8-5, Umang Singh Cogi bt Parmarth Kaushik 8-4, Shraey Vir bt Uday Singh Batra 8-3, Evaan Luthra bt Angad Singh Rangi 8-4, Anuj Pal bt Aditya Bhatnagar 8-5, Varchasva Thapliyal bt Satvik Singla 8-1, Arnav Bishnoi bt Shorya Jishtu 8-3, Jai Yadav bt Sehaj Sharma 8-7(2), Yash Solanky bt Priyansh Barthwal 8-7(5), Anhad Singh Oberoi bt Arya Vaibhav Nigam 8-2, Ekamjeet Singh Cheema bt Manvir Singh Hundal 8-1, Birkaran Singh bt Akshit Ratti 8-7(5), Gurbaaz Singh Dhanoa bt Harwin Singh Munjal 8-4, Arpit Garg bt Harjot Singh 8-5 and Anirudh Sangra bt Kanvarpreet Singh Bajwa 8-4.Girls’ U-16: Shriya Singh bt Mankirat Kaur 8-0, Inaaya Mittal bt Rhosyn William 8-5, Rasha Dhaliwal bt Ananya Chaudhary 8-1, Sidhak Kaur bt Poonam 8-4 and Mehakpreet Kaur bt Krittika Katoch 8-2.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aditya-seals-berth-in-quarters-212956
16-02-2021||Chandigarh||Minerva football club log victory||Minerva Academy Football Club defeated TASM Football Academy in the quarterfinal of the JCT U-21 Youth League by a solitary goal. The winning goal was scored by Sadananda Singh in the dying minutes of the match.Himanshu Jangra, Kuntal Pakhira and Charles Tongram made comeback for the host Minerva Academy in this match. The side started on a high note. However, it failed to convert its chances of getting an early lead.In the 6th minute, Kuntal Pakhira released a perfect pass to Jangra. However, his shot hit the crossbar. In the 24th minute, Jangra was again at the right spot, but failed to surpass the goalkeeper. The hosts repeatedly struggled to find a breakthrough even after the lemon break.In the 59th minute, TASM lads came up with a threatening attack. However, Minerva’s custodian saved it. As the match proceeded towards the final whistle, Sadananda Singh managed to get a goal and help his side to sail into semifinals. The side will now face Jagat Singh Palahi Football Academy in the semis. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/minerva-football-club-log-victory-212957
16-02-2021||Chandigarh||Doon Academy defeat Sector 42 Coaching Centre||Doon Academy defeated Sector 42 Coaching Centre 4-3 in the final of Kanwar Harbans Lal Memorial Baby Football League (U-13). Yash Tiwari put Doon Academy ahead by scoring two back-to-back goals.He netted the first goal in the 6th minute, followed by another in the 9th minute. Shreshth extended the lead to 3-0 in the 12th minute. After the lemon break, the Sector 42 outfit got some relief as Rohit netted a brace and Krishna Maria added one to put the score at par.In the dying minutes, Chaitanya of Doon Academy netted the winner to help the side win the championship. Chaitanya was named the best player of the tournament. Vihan of Kings FC was declared the best goalkeeper of the tournament, while Divyanshu, Garv and Harsh were declared the promising players of the tournament.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/doon-academy-defeat-sector-42-coaching-centre-212958
16-02-2021||Panchkula||Former depot holder booked for cheating||The district police have registered a cheating case against a former depot holder in Raipur Rani for allegedly availing of ration in the name of his late uncle for almost four years.According to the Food and Supply Department, suspect Ramesh Chand availed ration in the name of his uncle Inder Singh, who died on August 19, 2016. However, the suspect availed ration in his name till May 2020.Amount recoveredThe suspect submitted an application before the Deputy Commissioner, seeking his licence to be reinstated. The amount siphoned off by the suspect has already been recovered by the department and a sum of Rs5,108 has been submitted with the state exchequer.The matter came to the fore after the Food and Supply Department received a complaint regarding irregularities at his depot. The department conducted a probe into the allegations and found these to be true. Subsequently, his depot licence was cancelled.The suspect submitted an application before the Deputy Commissioner, seeking his licence to be reinstated.The amount siphoned off by the suspect has already been recovered by the department and a sum of Rs5,108 has been submitted with the state exchequer.A case was registered against the suspect under Sections 418 (cheating with knowledge that wrongful loss may ensue to person whose interest offender is bound to protect) and 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Raipur Rani police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/former-depot-holder-booked-for-cheating-212959
16-02-2021||Mohali||Culling operation complete, says Mohali DC||“After three weeks of extensive curtailment measures, threat of spread of avian flu in the district has been successfully countered,” said Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan.The administration has been on high alert ever since the confirmation of bird flu on January 21. Twenty-five rapid response teams, comprising five members each, were deployed for swift action. Culling in infected farms - Alpha, Royal and Evergreen at Behera village - began on January 22. As many as 84,505 birds from these farms were culled by January 29. Subsequently, 2,760 eggs and 1,28,850 kgs of feed was destroyed.OfficialSpeakTo a query regarding the district being free of avian influenza, Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said: “As of now, the threat is over. It still requires some time to officially declare the zone free from bird flu.”This was followed by mopping, which lasted for around 10 days. Thereafter, large-scale sanitisation measures were initiated, he said, adding that now farms concerned had been issued certificates of sanitisation and all aspects of culling operation were complete.For the zone to be free from bird flu, it is mandatory that after culling, mopping and sanitisation, the area in 10-km radius of the epicentre has to be monitored closely. It has to be divided into four zones, frequent sampling has to be conducted and fortnightly testing is to be carried out for two months from each zone. If no more positive samples surface, then only the area is declared free from bird flu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/culling-operation-complete-says-mohali-dc-212960
16-02-2021||Chandigarh||Year on, House approves amended MoU||More than a year after the Municipal Corporation and waste collectors inked an MoU regarding garbage collection, the House today approved the agenda with a few amendments.The MoU which was first inked in December 2019 with provisions that the collectors will work under the corporation could not be implemented all this while. Thus, most collectors kept operating independently. They had a few objections, which were claimed to have been worked out this month in a meeting with the officials. Based on that meeting, the MoU was amended and brought to the House today.With this, the MC will be able to take over the door-to-door garbage collection in the whole city.RelevanceIt was decided that the MoU will be signed with each collector willing to work with the MC and not with the collectors’ society. MC Commissioner KK Yadav said they would direct the sanitary inspectors to get the MoU signed in their areas.Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma said it was decided to incorporate demands of the collectors in the MoU such as sharing of user charges, income generated through sale of usable dry waste to be given to collectors, life insurance, a welfare fund and others.As per the MoU, the collectors would work as driver or sanitation assistant on the MC vehicles. A welfare fund for the garbage collectors with a corpus of Rs10 lakh will be formed and an annual increase of 10 per cent will be made in the payment to the collectors.Protective equipment such as masks and gloves will also be provided by the MC.A toll-free number will be set up for public to register their complaints. The timings of garbage collectors will be fixed. The collection of user charges will be done by MC through the water bill. Segregating dry and wet waste will be the responsibility of the waste generators. In case it is not done, the MC officials will fine the violator and 50 per cent of the fine collected will be distributed among the waste collectors.During the discussion, heated arguments were exchanged among councillors. Councillor Davesh Moudgil said there should be an annual increase of 10 per cent in the money collection of the garbage collectors.Councillor Devinder Singh Babla said people were facing issues in waste collection. The MC replaced carts with vehicles in Sectors 1 to 30 and would soon start it in other sectors.Babla rings up resident, puts phone on mikeDrama prevailed in the MC House when Leader of Opposition Devinder Singh Babla called up a complaining resident and put the phone on mike during the meeting.“Sir, the waste has not been lifted from our house for the past three days,” said the woman over phone.BJP councillors criticised the move. He was told that such things were against the tradition of the House.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/year-on-house-approves-amended-mou-212961
16-02-2021||Zirakpur||Man killed in road mishap||Awareness drive concludesChandigarh: The month-long campaign to create awareness among citizens about the need for petroleum conservation concluded at Mahatma Gandhi State Institute of Public Administration, Sector 26. Dr Amarpal Singh, State Transport Commissioner, Punjab, was the chief guest at the valedictory function of "Saksham 2021". Sujoy Choudhury, State-Level Coordinator (Oil Industry Punjab), and Executive Director, IOC, Chandigarh, made a welcome address. TNSWeek-long NSS camp endsChandigarh: A week-long NSS camp of Shishu Niketan Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 22-D, has concluded. The main focus of the volunteers was a cleanliness drive which was inaugurated by Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma. A long stretch was cleaned by the volunteers with the help of workers of the Municipal Corporation. TNSInstallation ceremonyChandigarh: Desh Bhagat University held an installation ceremony of The Himalayan Foundation. The foundation comes under the Himalayan Club, a public charitable trust running under the Centre.The Trust has been working under the guidance of Dr Sandeep Singh, president of DBU. TNSOne-wicket win for GCCChandigarh: Gladiators Coaching Centre (GCC) defeated Livewire Coaching Centre (LWCC) by one wicket in the ongoing My India-One India T20 Cup. Batting first, the LWCC posted 131 runs before getting all out in 15.5 overs. Vineet Sharma (35), Harvinder Nain (24), Pankaj (20) and Anand (18) were the main scorers for Livewire. Amit claimed 4/26, while Avi Kumar and Saurav claimed two wickets each for the bowling side. In reply, GCC lads scored 132/9 in 20 overs. Saurabh (39), Shashi Mishra (28), Shubham Tyagi (19) and Sudhir (11) contributed a major share in the chase. Pankaj claimed a five-wicket haul, while Harvinder Nain and Pratik took two wickets each for the bowling side. TNSCricket trials tomorrowMohali: The Mohali Cricket Association will organise trials to select U-19 probable squad on February 17 (1 pm) at the C-Ground, IS Bindra Stadium, PCA, Mohali. The team will take part in the Inter-District U-19 One-Day Limited Overs Tournament to be organised by the Punjab Cricket Association. All players either studying, born or living in Mohali are eligible for the trials. The players must bring a photocopy of the birth certificate or a certificate from the respective institute confirming the date of birth. The players should be born on or after September 1, 2001. TNSBhavik wins tae kwon do medalsPanchkula: Bhavik Jindal of Saint Soldier’s School, Sector 16, won two medals in the 1st Defence Tae kwon do Cup 2021 organised by the Defence Taekwondo Club. He won a gold medal in tae kwon do and a bronze medal in board-breaking event. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-killed-in-road-mishap-212963
