17-02-2021|| Chandigarh||NHRC close case of death of 32 people during 2017 Dera violence in Panchkula||The National Human Rights Commission closed the case pertaining to the death of 32 people during the Panchkula violence following the conviction of Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh in August 2017. In the orders issued on Tuesday, the NHRC said that no further interference was required since the case already sub judice before the Punjab and Haryana High Court.  The order said that the NHRC had received communication from the Panchkula DC regarding the death of 32 civilian people during the police action on August 25, 2017, in order to maintain law and order, and to control violence which took place after the verdict of Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh rape case by the CBI Court.  It was submitted by the DC that, supporters of Dera Sacha Sauda chief had started torching government and public property.  To maintain law and order, authorities tried to disperse the mob by lathi-charge, shelling tear gas and lastly were forced to open fire to control the situation.  It was further submitted that the matter was under investigation.  The Commission, vide its proceeding of September 6, 2017, the Haryana DGP, DC and Commissioner, Police, Panchkula were directed to take appropriate action with regard to the investigation of the case as per guidelines laid down by the NHRC.  Further, Magisterial Enquiry Report, Post-Mortem Examination Report, along with the report of the independent investigation was required to be submitted to the Commission.  “Now, Panchkula DC has informed the Commission that in this matter only single Magisterial Enquiry was conducted in case of death of Kapoor , a resident of Kaithal, and the same was already submitted to the complainant. It is also submitted that independent investigation of the case is being carried out by SIT, headed by the DGP (Crime), in compliance of order of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, and case is being monitored and supervised by the full bench of the court,” said the order passed by the NHRC. It can be appreciated that the High Court is seized of the matter, primarily in regard to ascertaining whether the expenses for the loss and damages that have been caused are liable to be recovered from the defaulter and if so, whether it would include expenses incurred in damage to public and private properties, harassment, costs, and the arrangements for mobilisation of security forces and the actual security operations?  It can also be observed that in this matter the High Court is also considering the question as in what situations should the police and law enforcing agencies use it full force, and when should minimum force with rubber bullets, water cannons etc. should be used?  In view of the above report, the matter is sub judice before Punjab and Haryana high Court, no further interference is needed. Therefore, the case is closed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nhrc-close-case-of-death-of-32-people-during-2017-dera-violence-in-panchkula-213756
17-02-2021||Gaurav Kanthwal||Congress wins Zirakpur, Dera Bassi, Lalru MC polls||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, February 17The Congress emerged victorious in Zirakpur, Dera Bassi and Lalru by a handsome margin in the municipal council elections results declared here today.Congress won in 23 out of the 31 wards in Zirakpur. The SAD managed to register win in eight wards. The BJP and the AAP failed to open their account.In Dera Bassi, Congress won in 13 out of the 19 wards. Independent candidates won in three wards, the SAD in two and the BJP got one. The AAP failed to register a win here.In Lalru, Congress won in 12 of the 17 wards. Three independent candidates registered wins here. The SAD managed to win in two wards. The BJP and the AAP failed to open their account here as well.Among the prominent candidates, Congress candidate from Zirakpur Ward No. 18 Udayvir Singh Dhillon defeated Dilbagh Singh of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) by 389 votes.Udayvir, son of Dera Bassi Congress in-charge Deepinder Singh Dhillon, was contesting the MC elections for the first time.SAD’s Dharminder Sharma from Ward No. 18 and Yadvinder Sharma from Ward No. 22 — both brothers of Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma — also registered comprehensive wins over their nearest rivals.However, SAD’s Kulwinder Sohi, former president of Zirakpur municipal council, lost to the Congress candidate by more than 600 votes in Ward No. 4.SAD’s Jagdev won over the Congress candidate Harsh Rishi by a slender margin of five votes (421-416) in ward No. 10. NOTA polled 13 votes in this ward.Another SAD candidate, Jaswinder Kaur, beat Congress Paramjit Kaur by five votes in ward No.1 of Dera Bassi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-wins-zirakpur-dera-bassi-lalru-mc-polls-213680
17-02-2021||---||Repoll at 2 booths in Mohali’s Ward 10 held||Mohali, February 17Repoll at two booths—No 32 and 33—of Ward 10 was held at St Soldier School, Phase 7 here, on Wednesday.The State Election Commission (SEC) had ordered repolling in two booths of Ward 10, from where state minister Balbir Singh Sidhu’s brother Amarjeet Singh Jeeti Sidhu is contesting the MC election.The elections were declared void by the SEC on Monday.Also read: Repoll in 2 booths of Ward 10 todayDeputy Commissioner-cum-District Electoral Officer Girish Dalayan said a complaint regarding alleged electoral malpractices was lodged on February 15 by a candidate, who sought re-polling.The SEC, after perusal of the report, found that the polling process of the booths was vitiated, and ordered repoll and rescheduled the counting for the MC election.The counting of votes will be held on Thursday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/repoll-at-2-booths-in-mohalis-ward-10-held-213679
17-02-2021||Patiala||Process to cover eastern drain begins||The Drainage Department, Patiala, has started the process to cover eastern drain, which has been a major cause of concern for residents near Mohindra College here. The project worth Rs3 crore was inaugurated by Member Parliament Preneet Kaur.Officials said the eastern drain having a length of 800 meters in Ward No. 41 would be covered under the project, which would benefit 20,000 people.Preneet Kaur said the state government had carried out a number of development works in the city. Ramandeep Singh Bains, Executive Engineer, Drainage Board, Patiala, said the work to cover the stretch of the drain would be completed before the rainy season. Officials, including PRTC chairman KK Sharma, Deputy Commissioner Kumar Amit, among others were present on the occasion. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/process-to-cover-eastern-drain-begins-213498
17-02-2021||Panchkula||Tigers Academy skaters excel||UTCA releases probables’ listChandigarh: The Union Territory Cricket Association (UTCA) of Chandigarh announced the names of 33 players for the preparation camp ahead of the upcoming Seniors Women’s Cricket Tournament. The camp will be held at Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 26. The squad members are Amanjot Kaur, Ambika Panjla, Divya Sharma, Kumari Shibi, Manisha Badhan, Monica Pandey, Nikita Nain, Kashvee Gautam, Parul Saini, Priyanka Guleria, Rajini Devi, Shivangi Yadav, Shivani Thakur, Nisha Das, Reena, Twinkle Pathak, Suman, Parushi, Simran Johal, Rameeza, Mehul, Jyoti, Jyoti Kumari, Palak Rana, Muskan, Eknoor, Mehak, Sarah, Parminder, Vinita, Aradhana Bisht, Ishana and Karmanpreet. TNSRohit shines in HSIIDC winPanchkula: A fine batting performance by Rohit Kanwar (51) enabled Haryana State Industries and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) to beat HAREDA by 61 runs in the 1st HSWC Inter-Departmental Premier League Tournament at Tau Devi Lal Stadium here on Tuesday. Batting first, the HSIIDC posted 155/9 in 20 overs. In reply, HAREDA XI posted 94/9 in 20 overs. TNS650 take online exams on Day 2Chandigarh: As many as 650 students attended online examination on the second day of the undergraduate/ postgraduate/other professional courses, including USOL/private candidates. This was stated by Dr Jagat Bhushan, Controller of Examination, Panjab University. He said a total of seven exams were conducted from 9.30 am to 12.30 pm in slot one and six exams were held from 1.30 pm to 4.30 pm in slot two. All exams conducted on Tuesday went off smoothly. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tigers-academy-skaters-excel-213495
17-02-2021||Chandigarh||Youth arrested with 13-gm heroin||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-arrested-with-13-gm-heroin-213491
17-02-2021||Chandigarh||‘Withholding student’s fee for period without coaching illegal’||The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, has held that no fee can be illegally held by the coaching institute for the period for which no coaching is being availed by a student.The commission has ordered a city-based coaching institute to refund the entire fee deposited by a student who left the centre midway due to his personal reasons. The commission has also directed the institute to pay Rs10,000 as compensation for deficiency in service, unfair trade practice and harassment, and Rs5,000 as litigation expenses to the student.Suman, a resident of Panchkula, approached the commission after a coaching institute denied her request to refund the fees. She said the batch of coaching was to start from April 2017, and admission was taken on assurance by the centre that the complainant was at liberty to withdraw from the class and would get the refund for the left-out period. After attending six or seven classes, her son could not attend further due to unavoidable circumstances. When she approached the centre to get the amount refunded, it was denied.The commission noted it was settled law that no fee (including advance fee) can be illegally held by the coaching centre for the period for which no coaching/service is being availed by the complainant. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/withholding-students-fee-for-period-without-coaching-illegal-213490
17-02-2021||Panchkula||Red carpet welcome for Panchkula beauty||“Haryana’s girls are brave enough and they should be allowed to chase their dreams,” said an elated Miss Grand India 2020 Manika Sheokand, while she was being welcomed by her family, friends and well-wishers in Sector 20 here this afternoon.“I am privileged enough that my family and relatives stood by me throughout this journey,” she said, adding she would continue to give her best to represent country in an international pageant.Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta also greeted Manika when she reached her home for the first time after winning the title. Gupta said Manika had not only brought laurels to Panchkula district but also to the state and the country. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/red-carpet-welcome-for-panchkula-beauty-213489
17-02-2021||---||Manika, Sutirtha sail through||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, February 16Top-seeded Manika Batra struggled before overcoming qualifier Kajol Ramjali of Andhra Pradesh in the first round of the UTT 82nd Senior National Table Tennis Championship at Tau Devi Lal in Sector 3 here.Manika eventually won 13-11, 11-9, 11-5, 7-11 and 11-3 to move into the round of 32. The current Indian paddler was never in doubt, but Kajol kept herself in the game with some wonderful forehands that somewhat unsettled Manika. With her experience, she overcame her Andhra rival.Former national champion Madhurika Patkar accounted for Yashaswini Ghorpade of Karnataka after dropping two games to win 7-11, 11-4, 11-2, 12-10, 9-11 and 11-7. The 14th seed was in trouble when she dropped the opening game before picking up herself. Madhurika led 3-1 against the Karnataka girl. But the latter won the fifth game, giving her a scare. Madhurika’s experience held her in good stead in the sixth which she won.Second seed Sutirtha Mukherjee hardly dropped a sweat against Kushi Jain of Madhya Pradesh. The Haryana paddler and reigning champion won 11-5, 11-3, 11-8 and 11-7. Archana Kamath, ninth seeded, was at sea in her contest against Swastika Ghosh, a TTFI wildcard entrant. Archana beat her rival 13-15, 12-10, 11-9, 4-11, 13-11 and 11-5. Sixteen-year-old Diya Chitale disposed of Vidya Narasimhan of TNTTA 11-4, 11-6, 11-9 and 11-4.Sreeja Akula defeated Assam’s Akanshya Bhuyan in straight games 11-3, 11-2, 11-2 and 15-13 and third seeded Ayhika Mukherjee dropped just a game against Punjab’s Aarushi Arora before wrapping it up 11-5, 11-7, 11-4, 6-11 and 11-4. Sixth seed Krittwika Sinha Roy followed the suit with 11-6, 11-6, 11-5 and 11-8 triumph over TR Shruthi of TTTA. Eleventh seed Takeme Sarkar defeated Bhavana Menon of Kerala 11-9, 12-10, 11-3 and 15-13. K Shamini was not fortunate and exited from the tournament after losing her first-round match to Varuni Jaiswal. The Telangana girl won 11-8, 9-11, 11-6, 12-10 and 11-6. Ankita Das, another former national champion, registered 8-11, 11-4, 11-3, 7-11, 11-6 and 11-7 win against Snehal Patil of Maharashtra. Selenadeepthi Selvakumar of TTTA beat Maria Rony of Karnataka 11-5, 11-8, 11-9 and 14-12, while 15th seed Reeth Rishya, after leading 3-1 and 10-8, had to fight really hard to outwit Munmun Kundu from Bengal (A) 11-9, 12-10, 15-13, 9-11, 11-3, 6-11 and 11-8.Archana found herself caught on the wrong foot right from the start against Swastika. In the first, Archana deuced and then went up 11-10 holding a game point. But Swastika won the game 15-13. In the second, Archana struggled to land her returns but managed to restore parity. She seemed relieved after going 2-1 up only to drop the next game. But she gained confidence after winning the fifth set and it helped her wrap up the next.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/manika-sutirtha-sail-through-213488
17-02-2021||Mohali||Sherry, Shrawasti to clash for tennis title||Second seed Sherry Sharma defeated Ekam Kaur 9-3, while top seed Shrawasti Kundliya ousted Diya Chaudhary 9-4 in the girls’ U-12 semifinals on the second day of the Roots AITA CS (3) U-12 National Ranking Championship in Zirakpur.Earlier in quarterfinals, Shrawasti outplayed Sahej Lakhat 8-0 and Sherry defeated Shauryaa Pathak 8-0. Diya ousted Naisha Garg 8-0 and Ekam defeated Ananya Walia 8-1.Abhinav enters finalAbhinav Chaudhary defeated Himanish Brinda 9-6 to march ahead in the in boys’ final. He will face second seed Sanidhya Singh, who overpowered Aarav Bishnoi 9-0 in another semis. In quarterfinals, Chaudhary defeated Kanav Bansal 8-6, Bishnoi defeated Ayaan Modi 8-5, Sanidhya ousted Aarush Sharma 8-0 and Brinda stunned top seed Shiva Sharma 8-5. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sherry-shrawasti-to-clash-for-tennis-title-213486
17-02-2021||---||Haryana’s Rubani stuns Bhumi, qualifies for final||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 16Eighth seed Haryana’s Rubani Kaur Sidhu recorded a 9-1 win over fifth seed Chandigarh’s Bhumi Kakkar to qualify for the girls’ U-16 final on the penultimate day of the CLTA-AITA Championship Series (CS-3) Tennis Tournament today.Another Haryana’s contender Vanya Arora also made her way to the title clash by defeating Chandigarh’s Sia Mahajan 9-3. Earlier in quarterfinals, Rubani showed an excellent performance to defeat top seed and local contender Maitreyi Phogat 8-6. Second seed Vanya defeated Punjab’s Mehakpreet Kaur 8-2, Bhumi defeated fourth seed Haryana’s Angelina Singh 8-1 and Sia ousted Radha Sadhra 8-5.Aditya to face EkamjeetTop seed Aditya Chauhan will face third seed Ekamjeet Singh Cheema of Punjab in the boys’ U-16 final. In semis, Chauhan overpowered Arnav Bishnoi 9-1 and Cheema managed to pull off a 9-7 win over second seed Chandigarh’s Anirudh Sangra. In quarterfinals, Chauhan defeated Shraey Vir, after the latter conceded the match, Bishnoi ousted Anuj Pal 8-0, Cheema defeated Yash Solanky 8-1 and Sangra outplayed Gurbaaz Singh Dhanoa 8-4.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/haryanas-rubani-stuns-bhumi-qualifies-for-final-213485
17-02-2021||---||600 awarded degrees at Desh Bhagat varsity||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 16Around 600 students of PhD, MPhil, masters and graduation courses were awarded degrees during the 8th convocation of Desh Bhagat University at Sri Guru Hargobind Sahib Auditorium. Ramdas Athawale, Minister of Social Justice and Empowerment, Government of India, awarded the degrees during a virtual meet.Athawale said the future depends upon the dreams of the younger generation and it’s their chance to go and fulfil their dreams. He congratulated the students and inspired them to stay away from social evils and work for the development of the nation.Chancellor Dr Zora Singh addressed the students and wished they contribute to the progress of the country. Vice-Chancellor Dr Shalini Gupta read the academic report and highlighted the achievements of the university.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/600-awarded-degrees-at-desh-bhagat-varsity-213483
17-02-2021||---||Chandigarh University launches Mohali’s first community radio — Radio Punjab 90.0||Tribune News ServiceMohali, February 16Chandigarh University (CU), Gharuan, celebrated Basant Panchami - in a unique way by launching Mohali city’s first community radio, Radio Punjab 90.0, on its campus today.The radio station and studio of Radio Punjab 90.0 was inaugurated by Charanjit Singh Channi, Minister for Technical Education, Tourism & Cultural Affairs, Government of Punjab, and Upasana Singh, Bollywood actress and comedian.The University Institute of Media Studies (UIMS), the mass communication institute of Chandigarh University, will run the community radio. Radio Punjab 90.0 will cater to the audience of Mohali, Kharar, Morinda, Kurali, besides covering the rural areas of Mankheri, Roorkee Pukhta, Mamupur, Gharuan, Batta and Simbal Majra, which are the adopted villages of Chandigarh University.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-university-launches-mohalis-first-community-radio-%E2%80%94-radio-punjab-90-0-213481
17-02-2021||---||Walk on road safety at Sukhna Lake||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 16The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), Regional Office, Chandigarh, conducted a walk along Sukhna Lake to create awareness among people about road safety.RP Singh, Regional Officer, NHAI, Chandigarh, flagged off the walk. Around 60 officials of the NHAI participated in the event. This year, the NHAI is celebrating Road Safety Month from January 18 to February 17.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/walk-on-road-safety-at-sukhna-lake-213479
17-02-2021||Panchkula||Man killed as speeding car hits motorcycle||A 47-year-old man riding a motorcycle died after being hit by a rashly driven car near the bus stand at Toka village here on Monday evening.The victim was identified as Baldev Singh from Rurki village in Raipur Rani, the police said.According to the FIR, Baldev Singh and his cousin Om Prakash were on their way back home on their motorcycles after finishing their work.The mishap took place around 7 pm near the Sukhdarshanpur village turn, when a speeding car hit Baldev’s bike while trying to overtake it.As the victim fell on the ground, the car driver sped away. Om Prakash managed to note down the registration number of the vehicle (HR23H-0023).With the help of passers-by, the victim was taken to the Civil Hospital where he was declared brought dead. A case under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (death by negligence) of the IPC has been registered at the Chandimandir police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-killed-as-speeding-car-hits-motorcycle-213477
17-02-2021||---||Mother denied bail in double murder case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 16The court of Additional Sessions Judge Rajeev Goyal has rejected the bail application of a woman facing the charge of killing her two minor children at Burail. The woman was arrested in January last year following a complaint of her husband.While denying the bail, the Judge said that “…killing of two minor children is gravest of offences and looking to the fact that applicant has been accused of doing so, in my considered opinion, she is not entitled to the concession of regular bail.” The Judge added that the accused might in all likelihood indulge in misusing the concession of bail, if granted, by threatening the witnesses and tampering with the evidence.The counsel for the accused claimed that the woman was innocent. He also claimed that there was no eyewitness to the crime and the entire case rested on circumstantial evidence.Additional Public Prosecutor JP Singh opposed the bail while saying that the charges against the accused are serious.After hearing the arguments, the Judge said it was true that the allegations against the applicant were yet to be proved but while deciding a regular bail application, the court was also required to bear in mind the gravity of offence.In his complaint, Dashrath had stated that while he had gone out for some work, he received a call from his wife on December 21, 2019, saying that their daughter Komal had died suddenly. Taking the incident as something that was destined to happen, the body was buried.On January 25 last year, his wife, along with their two-year-old son Divyanshu, went missing. Later, he found his son in the bed while he was taking out a bed sheet. The boy was gagged with a piece of cloth, the complainant had stated. He had alleged that his wife Rupa had planned to eliminate the entire family, adding that she had killed their daughter Komal in December 2019.The police registered a case and arrested the woman on January 27.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mother-denied-bail-in-double-murder-case-213476
17-02-2021||---||Commuters harried as Sector 62 road blocked||Mohali, February 16Commuters and visitors to a private hospital are a harried lot as the road passing through the hospital and Vikas Bhawan in Sector 62 has been partially blocked by rope fencing on the one side and vehicles parked on the other side. Because of this, only a lane is left for commuters on each side.Fortis Hospital authorities said: “The Mohali traffic police had issued a notice regarding illegal parking of vehicles outside the entrance to the hospital following which the rope fencing was done.”DSP (Traffic) Guriqbal Singh said: “I was busy on election duty for the past one week so I was unaware of the exact situation. We will ensure that road users are not inconvenienced due to illegal parking.”Road safety awarenessMahindra & Mahindra Ltd, in collaboration with the district administration, organised a road safety awareness session for drivers.The session was addressed by Sukhvinder Kumar, Secretary, RTA, Mohali. He talked at length about adhering to the road safety norms.On the occasion, Swaraj Tractors also donated helmets to the RTO office to be distributed among college students. Representatives of the Mohali Traffic Cell also sensitised the employees to Dos and Don’ts of road safety.Earlier, the RTO had organised awareness rallies at the Phase 5, Industrial Area, and Swaraj Foundry in Majri.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/commuters-harried-as-sector-62-road-blocked-213475
17-02-2021||Mohali||HC adjourns hearing to February 18||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has adjourned a hearing in a case related to an alleged capturing of booths by a Congress candidate, along with his supporters, and fake voting during the election to the Mohali MC Ward No. 10, to February 18.Chetan Mittal, the counsel for the petitioner, Paramjit Singh Kahlon, said a civil miscellaneous application was filed on behalf of the petitioner, who was contesting from Ward No. 10, against Amarjit Singh Sidhu, brother of Cabinet minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, wherein it was alleged that in the polling station number 32 and 33, the polling agents were removed illegally and voting continued illegally till 4.30 pm at the behest of the minister, who visited the polling stations unauthorisedly.It was further stated that a councillor from Chandigarh, Devinder Babla, was found inside the polling station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hc-adjourns-hearing-to-february-18-213474
17-02-2021||---||Balbir Sidhu: Cong nominee to emerge winner in repoll||Mohali, February 16Accepting the State Election Commission (SEC) order to hold a re-polling in two booths of Ward No. 10 of the Mohali Municipal Corporation, Cabinet Minister and local MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu today said the Congress candidate would now win with a record margin.Sidhu said on February 14, like all wards of Mohali, elections were held in a peaceful, free and fair manner in Ward No. 10. The Azad Group candidate, Paramjit Singh Kahlon, was troubled by his apparent defeat in the elections at the hands of the Congress candidate, Amarjit Singh Sidhu, contesting from the ward, he alleged.Sidhu alleged Kahlon wanted to stop the Congress candidate’s entry into the MC by filing cases in the Punjab and Haryana High Court and the SEC. He said his wish would never be fulfilled and the Congress candidates would win this election.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/balbir-sidhu-cong-nominee-to-emerge-winner-in-repoll-213472
17-02-2021||Mohali||Act against ‘fake’ voters: Azad Group candidate||The Azad Group candidate from Ward No. 10, Paramjit Singh Kahlon, today urged the district administration and the police to take action against the persons who were caught by him and his supporters for trying to cast votes after presenting fake Aadhaar cards.Kahlon said more than half a dozen persons had been handed over to the police by him and his supporters who were trying to cast votes on behalf of the registered voters of the area on February 14, the day of polling for the Mohali MC elections.In his complaint to the police as well as the Deputy Commissioner-cum-District Electoral Officer, he alleged that the police present at the booths had let off those persons.Former Mayor and Azad Group head Kulwant Singh alleged that the MC elections were rigged at the behest of Cabinet Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu as his brother Amarjit Singh Sidhu was contesting the poll. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/act-against-fake-voters-azad-group-candidate-213471
17-02-2021||---||GMADA to hold draw on February 22||Tribune News ServiceMohali, February 16The Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) will hold a draw of 289 residential plots at Eco City-2, New Chandigarh, on February 22.Sharing the details, the spokesperson of GMADA said a list of applicants, who would be eligible for the draw, had already been uploaded on the website, gmada.gov.in, and the draw of lots would be held at Community Centre, Purab Premium Apartments, Sector 88, on February 22 at 11 am.He informed that the results of the draw would be uploaded on the website on February 23. Notably, GMADA had offered residential plots in the sizes of 200 sq yd, 300 sq yd, 400 sq yd, 450 sq yd, 500 sq yd, 1,000 sq yd and 2,000 sq yd.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gmada-to-hold-draw-on-february-22-213470
17-02-2021||---||Chandigarh department designs app to assess carbon footprint||Chandigarh, February 16City residents can now calculate the amount of carbon released into the atmosphere with the help of their mobile phones.The Department of Environment, UT, has developed a mobile app, “Carbon Watch”, for city residents to assess their carbon footprint and steps to reduce it in order to make them climate-smart citizens.Launched through online platformApart from Chandigarh residents, others can also create their account on the app and calculate their carbon footprint, which is the amount of carbon dioxide released into the atmosphere as a result of the activities of a particular individual, organisation or community.Debendra Dalai, Director, UT Environment, launched the application through online platform. The e-inaugural of the app was attended by teachers, students and research scholars from various colleges, schools, universities and research institutes. This app works on all Android smart phones.Dalai said this app was an initiative of the department to keep the city and the country in the vanguard of climate initiatives. “In the context of climate action, countrywide emission targets, thrust on renewable and policy changes are some of the oft-suggested measures. While these macro-level interventions play their part, the role of a citizen is equally paramount,” he said.He said the Department of Forest, Chandigarh Administration, has agreed to plant equal number of saplings during the ensuing monsoon season to the total number of app downloads.At the outset of the event, there was an interactive session with teachers and students regarding causes of carbon emissions, their effects on the environment and how an individual can minimise the same.A brief presentation on how an individual can calculate his carbon footprint by using the app was demonstrated. During the live presentation, it was also communicated that the app focuses on individuals’ actions and calculates carbon footprint on the basis of transport, energy, waste and water consumption. It also suggests remedial actions and sensitises people about their lifestyle emissions, their impact and possible countermeasures to mitigate the same.Officials from the Environment Department and the Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-department-designs-app-to-assess-carbon-footprint-213468
17-02-2021||Saurabh Malik||HC for sprucing up Chandigarh Estate Office functioning if matters delayed||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 16The Punjab and Haryana High Court today made clear its intent to initiate the proceedings for sprucing up the functioning of the UT Estate Office in case of an inordinate delay in the disposal of matters. The Bench was hearing a petition filed by a 89-year-old woman.“From the perusal of the paper book, it appears that the petitioner had made numerous representations, the last one being on August 25, 2020. However, it is inexplicable as to why the Estate Officer, Chandigarh, has neither accepted nor rejected the prayer of the petitioner,” the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh asserted.The petitionIssuing notice to the UT Estate Officer, the Bench added: “In case we find that there is an inordinate delay in the disposal of such matters by the Estate Officer, Chandigarh, counsel shall be at liberty to assist this court and suggest measures to spruce up its functioning”.In her petition, Premjit Kaur through counsel Shekhar Verma had contended that the petitioner had purchased a house in Sector 38-D, Chandigarh, in 1992. A policy was framed by the Chandigarh Administration pursuant to the Supreme Court judgment in the case of “Suraj Lamp and Industries Private Ltd versus the State of Haryana and another”. As per the policy, the petitioner was entitled to get the conveyance deed executed in her name.The relevant part of the policy reproduced in the order made it clear that in case where the GPA/SPA was executed coupled with the will/agreement to sell and the person executing such documents was no more available or had died, the transaction could still be executed by following the due procedure prescribed under the law. The holder could execute the registered instrument of conveyance and get the same registered on the payment of necessary duty. On the basis of the registered instrument of conveyance, the mutation could be entered and record corrected.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hc-for-sprucing-up-chandigarh-estate-office-functioning-if-matters-delayed-213456
17-02-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh can treat more wastewater than what it generates, NGT told||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 16The UT capacity to treat wastewater is more than what is generated in the city.In a compliance report submitted before the National Green Tribunal (NGT), the UT Administration stated: “Total volume of wastewater generated in the city is 54 MGD (million gallons per day), whereas the treatment capacity of the sewage treatment plants (STPs) in operation is 55.1 MGD. This indicates more than 100 per cent wastewater treatment capacity.”In its order dated September 21 last year, the NGT had directed that all states/UTs may address gaps in generation and treatment of sewage/effluents by ensuring setting up of requisite number of functional effluent treatment plants (ETPs), common effluent treatment plants (CETP) and STPs. The unutilised capacity of the existing STPs may be utilised expeditiously and the states/ UTs may ensure that the CETP, ETPs and STPs meet the laid-down norms and remedial action be taken wherever norms are not met.“It must be ensured that no untreated sewage/effluent is discharged into any water body. Prompt remedial action may be taken by the state pollution control board/pollution control committee against non-compliant ETPs/CETPs by closing it down or restricting the effluent generating activity, recovering compensation and taking othercoercive measures following the due process of law,” stated the order.The treated sewage may be duly utilised for secondary purposes by preparing appropriate action plans and reports in this regard befiled with the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) periodically.In the compliance report, the UT Administration stated that the work of upgradating existing five STPs had been started by Chandigarh Smart City Limited and the status of the work was being submitted.“Industries are being monitored as per available infrastructure and no unit is allowed to operate without effluent treatment plant. In case of any violation, the unit is sealed with disconnection of electricity and water supply. Reports are being regularly provided to the CPCB,” stated the UT.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-can-treat-more-wastewater-than-what-it-generates-ngt-told-213433
17-02-2021||Sandeep Rana||Dark spots to be lit up soon in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 16About 8,500 dark spots in gardens and on city roads will be lit up in the next three months as the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation has allotted the work to two private firms.Of the total, 6,000 dark spots are in gardens and 2,500 are on roads. Street light poles were erected through a private company around two years ago, but the work for the fitting of lights was to be allotted separately.MC to get 2,000 fittings today: officialWe will receive about 2,000 fittings on February 17. For completing the work, three-month time has been given. — A senior MC officialHowever, the MC failed to hire any agency to carry out the work. The civic body had initially asked Energy Efficient Services Ltd (EESL), a public sector undertaking, to float a tender and hire a company for the purpose. But it could not find any takers for the project despite floating tenders several times.Then the MC took over the job and floated two tenders and finalised two companies for fittings.“We will receive about 2,000 fittings tomorrow. For completing the work, three-month time has been given,” said a senior MC official.A survey to identify the dark spots was conducted in 2017. Even after poles were erected and wiring completed, it took about two years for the MC to start the fitting work.While, the work for erecting the poles, which was carried out for Rs11 crore by a private contractor, is still under litigation.“The MC initially should not have involved any third party for the dark spots project. Why couldn’t the MC float tenders itself?” asked Devinder Singh Babla, Leader of the Opposition.Residents have been complaining that due to the inordinate delay, they are finding it hard to go for a walk in the late evening hours. At some places, miscreants take the advantage of dark spots and undertake anti-social activities or petty crimes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dark-spots-to-be-lit-up-soon-in-chandigarh-213431
17-02-2021||Panchkula||7 fresh cases in Panchkula||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/7-fresh-cases-in-panchkula-213427
17-02-2021||Mohali||One death, 18 cases in Mohali||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-death-18-cases-in-mohali-213426
17-02-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 29 cases, one death||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-29-cases-one-death-213425
17-02-2021||Chandigarh||Warmest February day in 3 years||The city witnessed the warmest February day in the past three years today.Chandigarh recorded 27°C as the maximum temperature — four degrees above normal. According to the Chandigarh Meteorological Department, last year this month, the highest maximum temperature was 26.4°C on February 21. In 2019, the highest day temperature was 25.6°C on February 4.The minimum temperature today was 10.3°C, two degrees above normal. The past few days have been sunny, leading to an increase in the temperature. According to the weatherman, the next three days are likely to witness a clear sky. The minimum and maximum temperatures are likely to remain the same. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/warmest-february-day-in-3-years-213424
17-02-2021||---||2 POs land in Chandigarh police net||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 16Two proclaimed offenders (PO) have been arrested by the PO and Summon Cell of the UT police.Manoj Kumar, a resident of Bad Majra, Mohali, who was booked in theft cases registered in October 2004 at the Sector 36 police station and December 2005 at the Sector 39 police station and was declared a PO in the cases in December 2008 and April 2010, was arrested today.He was produced in a court, which sent him to judicial custody. Nathoni Miya, who was booked in a case of attempt to murder and the Arms Act at the Sector 36 police station in February 1999 and was later declared a PO, too has been arrested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-pos-land-in-chandigarh-police-net-213422
17-02-2021||Panchkula||Encroachers sit pretty in markets of Panchkula, create big nuisance||Encroachments in the city continue to create nuisance in market areas with shopkeepers and vendors occupying roads, corridors, footpaths and park areas.Even though a joint anti-encroachment drive by the Panchkula Municipal Corporation and the Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) is underway, it does not seem to be making an impact on the ground, with offenders reclaiming their usual spots. The Sector 9 market, which is part of the commercial centres of the city and sees crowds throughout the day, is a case in point.Here, pedestrians, particularly those in their old age, find it difficult to walk in the market area due to massive encroachments.Jaswant Singh, a senior citizen, said, “Where are we supposed to walk if encroachers continue to occupy spaces in market areas. They (encroachers) return once the anti-encroachment drive gets over. The authorities need to find a long-term solution.” Encroachments are a persistent problem in the city, with the authorities struggling to remove illegal occupations. The Panchkula MC, in its first general house meeting held last month, had discussed the issue at length.Currently, the civic body is focusing on regularising street vendors by allocating them space in vending zones developed in various sectors.A draw of lots for allocation of vending sites in Sector 2, 4, 8, 10, 11, 12 and 15 will be held on February 22. Ashok Huria, Executive Officer of the Panchkula MC, said their joint anti-encroachment drive with the HSVP was underway.Every sector would be covered in a phased manner, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/encroachers-sit-pretty-in-markets-of-panchkula-create-big-nuisance-213421
17-02-2021||---||Repoll in 2 booths of Ward 10 today||Mohali, February 16The State Election Commission (SEC) has ordered re-polling in two booths of Ward No. 10 from where Cabinet Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu’s brother Amarjeet Singh Jeeti Sidhu is contesting the Mohali Municipal Corporation elections.Deputy Commissioner-cum-District Electoral Officer Girish Dayalan, while sharing the order of the SEC, said the polling at two booths — No. 32 and 33 — of Ward No. 10 had been declared void and a repoll had been ordered that would take place on February 17 from 8 am to 4 pm.Dayalan said the counting of the votes for the Mohali MC, which was to be held tomorrow, had now been deferred to February 18.Electoral malpractices plaintThe District Electoral Officer said a complaint regarding alleged electoral malpractices was lodged on February 15 by a candidate, who sought repolling.An inquiry was marked to the Mohali SDM-cum-Returning Officer for Ward 1 to 25 and point-wise findings, along with recommendations, were sought in 24 hours. During the inquiry, allegations made by the complainant were substantiated.He said a complaint regarding alleged electoral malpractices was lodged on February 15 by a candidate, who sought repolling. He said an inquiry was marked to the Mohali SDM-cum-Returning Officer for Ward 1 to 25 and point-wise findings, along with recommendations, were sought in 24 hours.During the inquiry, the allegations made by the complainant were substantiated. Since an “error/ irregularity in procedure is likely to vitiate the voting at a polling station” under Section 59 (C) of the Punjab State Election Commission Act, 1994, the matter was brought to the notice of the SEC for further action. “The sanctity and integrity of the poll process is paramount and should be above any suspicion or doubts. Since there were certain infirmities that create an element of doubt, the report was submitted to the SEC with the recommendation that the repoll for these booths be ordered,” said Dayalan. A detailed inquiry has also been ordered to look into the irregularities committed at the two polling booths of Ward No.10. The SEC, after perusal of the report, found that the polling process of the booths was vitiated as provided under Section 59 (C) of the State Election Commission Act, 1994, and ordered repoll and rescheduled the counting for the MC elections.Council results todayZirakpur: The fate of 125 candidates for 31 wards of the Zirakpur Municipal Council is expected to be decided by 11 am on Wednesday. As many as 78 candidates are in the fray from 19 wards of the Dera Bassi Municipal Council and 76 candidates from 17 wards of Lalru. The counting of votes will be held at the Zirakpur MC office, Dera Bassi government college and Government Senior Secondary School, Lalru. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/repoll-in-2-booths-of-ward-10-today-213418
17-02-2021||---||Pay your CHB dues at Sampark centres||Chandigarh, February 16To facilitate allottees of the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB), the UT Administration has decided that all Sampark centres will now accept payments on behalf of the board.The decision was taken at a meeting, chaired by Manoj Parida, Adviser to the Administrator, and Chairman, CHB, with officers of the CHB, Department of IT, Finance Department and National Informatics Centre (NIC).“Since there are 44 Sampark centres and more are expected to start, the allottees will get the payment facility nearer to their residence or workplace,” said Parida, adding that the Sampark centres would start accepting CHB payments from tomorrow.He said cash payment up to Rs5,000 could be deposited, whereas there was no limit on payment by Net banking, debit card or credit card. There was no limit for payment by cheque, demand draft or pay order.Parida asked officers to further simplify the digital payment process to minimise cash transactions. The NIC and SPIC have finalised a computerised module for this facility. The Sampark centres will issue computerised receipts while accepting payments on behalf of the CHB. Payments through cash/Net banking, debit card or credit card will instantly reflect in the allotment record at the CHB. However, payment through cheque, demand draft or pay order will reflect in the allotment record of the CHB after its realisation, which may take about two/three days.The payment facility at the centres will be in addition to the available online payment at the website of the CHB.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pay-your-chb-dues-at-sampark-centres-213414
