18-02-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 30 new COVID-19 cases||Chandigarh reported 30 more coronavirus cases on Thursday, pushing the infection count in the Union Territory to 21,352.No fresh fatality due to the disease was reported during the day, and the death toll stands at 348, according to a medical bulletin.There are 150 active cases in the city as of now, the bulletin said.Meanwhile, 22 more patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of those cured to 20,854.A total of 2,39,648 samples have been tested for COVID-19 so far, and of these, 2,17,351 were found negative, while reports of 158 samples are awaited, the bulletin added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-30-new-covid-19-cases-214315
18-02-2021||---||Hit and run: Car driver carries cyclist’s body on vehicle roof for 10 km in Mohali; arrested||Mohali, February 18The Mohali police have nabbed a car driver who after hitting a cyclist kept on driving the vehicle with the victim’s body on the rooftop for about 10 km in the city and later dumped the body near Sunny Enclave.The accused has been identified as Nirmal Singh, a resident of Khamano in Fatehgarh Sahib district.The victim has been identified as Yogender Mandal (35), a resident of Aero City in the city. He was declared brought dead at civil hospital.According to police, the incident occurred when a rashly-driven car coming from the Zirakpur side on Airport road hit a cyclist coming from the opposite direction. Such was the impact that the victim landed on the car’s rooftop and the driver instead of stopping the vehicle kept on driving for 10 km.Later, the car driver dumped the body near showrooms near Sunny Enclave and sped away. A passerby informed the police about the incident.DSP Rupinderdeep Kaur Sohi reached the spot. On checking the CCTV footage, she found that the car driver had dumped the body and fled.A case under Sections 279, 427, 304A and 201 of the IPC has been registered against the car driver and took the car into its custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hit-and-run-car-driver-carries-cyclists-body-on-vehicle-roof-for-10-km-in-mohali-arrested-214269
18-02-2021||Panchkula||69 get second vaccine dose||25 workers in UT get second jabChandigarh: As many as 852 beneficiaries received the Covid-19 vaccine on Wednesday against the target of 4,109. The vaccine coverage rate stood at 20.73. Among the total beneficiaries, 25 healthcare workers received the second dose. The target was to give second dose to 277 health care workers. So far, 10,972 beneficiaries have been vaccinated. TNSSex racket: Key suspect heldPanchkula: The Sector 26 crime branch of the UT police has claimed to have arrested a key suspect in a sex racket case that was busted in October last year. The police had arrested eight persons, including three foreign women, in the case. Ashok Kumar (47), a resident of Saharanpur and currently living in Zirakpur, had been absconding. He was produced in a local court, which sent him to two-day police custody. The police have registered a case under Sections 3, 4, 5 and 7 of the Immoral Trafficking Act and Sections 370, 420, 465, 468, 471, 120-B and 34 of the IPC at Sector 5 police station. TNSOfficer not relievedChandigarh: Despite a reminder by the authorities concerned, the Municipal Corporation has not relieved its Law Officer, Rakesh. In a recent communication by the UT Administration, the commissioner has been asked to relieve him by February 2, but the civic body has not relieved him so far. After serving three years in the corporation, his transfer orders were issued last year. However, he had received six months’ stay and was supposed to leave the charge by February 2. But despite orders of the higher authorities, he has not been relieved yet. During his tenure, he dealt with waste collection, garbage processing plant, vendors Act, encroachment and smart watches issues, along with contempt cases in different courts. TNSASI remanded in judicial custodyChandigarh: Dr Sushil Kumar Garg, Special Judge, CBI Court, Chandigarh, has remanded an Assistant Sub-Inspector of the Chandigarh Police in 14-day judicial custody. The cop was arrested by the CBI for allegedly accepting Rs10,000 as bribe. The cop, Harbhajan, was arrested on a complaint of Dharampal of Lalru, who works in 3BRD Air Force station, Chandigarh. The court directed to produce the accused on March 3. TNSDe-addiction awareness rallyChandigarh: As many as 50 motor mechanics participated in a de-addiction awareness rally at New Auto Motor Market, Sector 48, on Wednesday. The rally was organised by the New Auto Motor Market Association under the 'Nasha Mukt Chandigarh and Nasha Mukt Bharat' campaign. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/69-get-second-vaccine-dose-214109
18-02-2021||Chandigarh||Shrawasti wins tennis title||Sports Complex spikers winChandigarh: Sports Complex, Sector 42, registered a 25-16 21-25 15-25 win over Star Club, Sector 46, in the opening match of the Chandigarh State Sub-Junior & Senior Volleyball Championships on Wednesday. Athletic Club, Sector 7, defeated Sai Volleyball Club, Sector 29, 25-18, 25-17 while Hospitech Club logged a 25-17, 25-15 win over Star Club, Sector 46. DAV Club, Sector 8, went down 10-25, 12-25 against Panjab University Coaching Centre. TNSMinerva lads exit U-21 leagueChandigarh: Jagat Singh Palahi Football Academy defeated Minerva Academy Football Club 5-4 in a tie-breaker-finish semifinal match of the JCT U-21 Youth League on Wednesday. Armaan handled the ball in the box and Minerva Academy conceded a penalty kick at the quarter hour mark. Tarun Slathia converted the spot kick to put Jagat Singh Palahi Football Academy ahead. However, Minerva bounced back after Himanshu Jangra converted a free kick to make it 1-1 in the 16th minute. Thereafter, both sides failed to score a goal. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shrawasti-wins-tennis-title-214108
18-02-2021||Chandigarh||Woman’s Gold chain snatched||Bid to break open ATM at Mani MajraChandigarh: An unknown person tried to break open an ATM at Mani Majra on the intervening night of February 15 and 16. According to the police, the branch manager of the Central Bank of India, NAC, Mani Majra, reported that the person attempted a theft at the ATM. A case has been registered at the Mani Majra police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/womans-gold-chain-snatched-214107
18-02-2021||Chandigarh||One death, 27 new cases in Chandigarh||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-death-27-new-cases-in-chandigarh-214106
18-02-2021||Mohali||23 more test +ve in Mohali||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/23-more-test-ve-in-mohali-214105
18-02-2021||Panchkula||7 fresh cases  in Panchkula||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/7-fresh-cases-in-panchkula-214104
18-02-2021||Patiala||Patiala man held on charge of spreading hate||The police have nabbed a member of the Rashtriya Akhil Bharatiya Hindu Seva Dal for allegedly spreading religious hatred. The suspect has been identified as Sachin Goyal of Mathura Colony.Patiala SSP Vikramjeet Duggal said he was posting photos of various Hindu leaders and police officers, including the Punjab DGP, with a cross mark implying physical elimination. The caption of the photos was ‘Khalistan Zindabad’ so as to create an impression that posts were uploaded by some Khalistani sympathisers, the SSP added.The process was meant to disturb peace and harmony in Punjab, said the police. A case as registered against Sachin Goyal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/patiala-man-held-on-charge-of-spreading-hate-214083
18-02-2021||---||Rajindra Hospital staff oppose bifurcation of common cadre||Patiala, February 17Clerical, para-medical and Class IV employees of Government Medical College and Rajindra Hospital held a protest against the state government here today.The employees were protesting the proposed move by the state government to bifurcate the ‘common cadre’ of the Medical Education and State Health Departments entirely.Currently, both the Medical Education and State Health Departments share a common cadre. The government is mulling to separate the common cadre of the two departments. The government has planned to dismantle the common cadre and, therefore, asked the employees of the common cadre to choose from either of the departments and submit their option.However, the protesters said that if the said proposal was materialised, the Department of Research and Medical Education (DRME) seekers would be at a loss because it had already abolished several posts, thereby, no avenues for promotions.One of the protesters said: “If the government wants to bifurcate the common cadre, they, should not abolish the sanctioned posts in the DRME so as to keep promotion avenues intact.”The protesters staged a dharna outside the office of Medical Superintendent (MS) of Government Rajindra Hospital for hours. Thereafter, protesters held a protest rally from the MS office to the principal’s office. The protesters called off the protest after submitting a memorandum to the principal. Meanwhile, the protesters announced that they would block the Patiala-Bathinda highway on Thursday.Govt proposalAt present, the Medical Education and Health departments share a common cadre. The government is mulling separating the common cadre of the two departments. The government has planned to dismantle the common cadre and, therefore, asked the employees of the common cadre to choose from either of the departments and submit their option.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rajindra-hospital-staff-oppose-bifurcation-of-common-cadre-214081
18-02-2021||Chandigarh||RLA gives away helmets||The Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA), UT, organised the National Road Safety month from January 18 to February 17 with 'Sadak Suraksha Jeevan Rakhsha' as the theme.The RLA conducted an awareness rally for general public during at Children Traffic Park, Sector 23 and a transport driving test area near Kala Gram in Mani Majra. Virat, Licensing Officer, RLA, and Harjeet Singh Sandhu, SDM (Central), distributed helmets while spreading awareness. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rla-gives-away-helmets-214076
18-02-2021||---||City enters stage II of cycle challenge||Chandigarh, February 17Chandigarh is one of the 25 cities in India shortlisted for the stage II of nationwide ‘cycles4challenge’, organised under the Smart Cities Mission of the Centre.About 107 cities participated in the challenge that aimed at making cities cycling-friendly post-Covid. Of these, 41 had submitted a proposal and strategy for evaluation by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs.Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) initiated the strategic action plans based on three principals — social media engagement, community involvement and implementation of pilot intervention at Sukhna Lake and Sector 36 V4 road — to promote cycling.Several activities have been taken up in the city in the past six months such as free cycle repair workshop, online perception survey, pilot launch of public bicycle sharing system, cycle rallies, cycle-themed photo and video competition and lighting of cycle tracks among other initiatives.Now, the city is preparing for the second round of the challenge.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/city-enters-stage-ii-of-cycle-challenge-214072
18-02-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Insurance firm guilty of unfair trade practice||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 17Directing it to refrain from selling its products by alluring gullible customers at the time of booking policies, the State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, has rejected the appeal of an insurance company challenging the order of the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission.After finding the company guilty of deficiency in service and unfair trade practice, the District Consumer Commission, in its order dated December 11, 2019, directed the company to refund the amount — Rs1,69,052 — that was wrongfully deducted to a consumer.The district commission had also imposed a penalty of Rs20,000 for mental agony and physical harassment, besides directing the company to pay Rs10,000, to the complainant as the cost of litigation.The district commission passed the order on the complaint of Yogesh K Sharma, who approached the commission after the insurance firm, SBI Life Insurance Company Limited, allegedly failed to give him the promised amount after the policy matured.Sharma said he deposited Rs2,50,000 for a term of five years for a policy with an insurance cover of Rs2,64,000. He said the company promised him to pay Rs4,83,500 on maturity. However, he was offered Rs3,17,625. The insurance company credited an amount of Rs3,14,448 to his bank account without consent which amounted to a deficiency in service and unfair trade practice. The insurance company challenged the order before the State Commission. Counsel for the insurance company claimed that Rs4,83,500 as maturity value was never offered to the complainant under the policy.After hearing the arguments, the commission noted that the district panel rightly relied upon the policy information placed on record by the complainant. Perusal of this document revealed that the installment premium was Rs2,49,137 and the sum assured under the said policy was Rs2,64,000 . The document clearly proved the case of the complainant as the maturity amount was mentioned as Rs4,83,500.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/insurance-firm-guilty-of-unfair-trade-practice-214071
18-02-2021||---||3 under-construction farmhouses razed||Chandigarh, February 17During a drive against illegal constructions in the catchment area of Sukhna Lake, the Enforcement Wing of the UT Administration today demolished three under-construction farmhouses and a waste-material shed.An official said the anti-encroachment drive was carried out in the Khuda Ali Sher village area.The UT authorities had decided to undertake regular checks at the catchment area of the lake and demolish the illegal structures.The UT Administration has imposed a ban on any kind of construction in the catchment area and outside Lol Dora in villages.For the past some months, the authorities have been receiving complaints against illegal constructions being carried out outside the Lal Dora in villages.The UT Administration is working on a policy to regularise constructions outside the Lal Dora in villages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-under-construction-farmhouses-razed-214069
18-02-2021||Chandigarh||Rail roko: Trains to halt at Mohali station||The Ministry of Railways has provided additional stoppage of some trains at Mohali station in view of the ‘rail roko’ protest call given by farmer unions against the three agricultural laws.Huzur Sahib Nanded-Amritsar Sachkhand Express (Train No. 02715 and 02716) will have additional stoppage at Mohali. The arrival of train No. 02715 (NED-ASR) at Mohali station will be at 4:05 pm and departure at 4:07 pm.Similarly, for train No. 02716 (NDLS-NED) the arrival time is 8:24 am and departure is at 8:26 am. Presently, this train is short-terminated at Chandigarh railway station after resumption of service up to Amritsar.Bandra terminus-Amritsar Express train (No. 02925 and 02926) also has an additional stoppage at Mohali station from February 20 onwards. The arrival time of train No. 02925 (BDTS-ASR) is at 3:50 pm and departure at 3:52 pm. Also, train No. 02926 (Amritsar-Bandra Terminus) arrival time is at 11:34 am and departure at 11:36 am.Jammutawi -Rishikesh Express train (No. 04609 and 04610) will also stop at the Mohali railway station. The arrival time for train No. 04609 is 10:21 pm and departure time is 10:23 pm. For train No. 04610 arrival time is 1:49 am and departure time is 1:51 am from February 20. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rail-roko-trains-to-halt-at-mohali-station-214067
18-02-2021||---||Kisan mahapanchayat on Feb 20 at Rally Ground||Chandigarh, February 17The Naujawan Kisan Ekta has decided to organise a ‘kisan mahapanchayat’ on February 20 at Rally Ground of Sector 25 from 2 pm to 5 pm.Farmer leaders Joginder Singh Ugrahan of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) (Ekta Ugrahan), Ruldu Singh Mansa of the Punjab Kisan Union and Gurnam Singh Chaduni of the BKU (Haryana) will be the key speakers.Organisations such as the All-Gurdwara Parbhandak Committees, Pendu Sangharsh Committee, Chandigarh, Chandigarh Punjabi Manch, Guru Gobind Singh Study Circle, Gurdwara Asthapan Committee, Sector 22, and the Lok Bhalai Society will also participate.Kirpal Singh, president of the Naujawan Kisan Ekta, said thousands of people from every corner, including Panchkula, Ambala, Zirakpur, Banur, Landran, Kharar, Kurali, Ropar, Mullanpur, Fatehgarh Sahib and villages of Mohali and Chandigarh, would attend the panchayat.Parminder Singh from Dhanas, who is a member of city’s Pendu Sangharsh Committee, said farmers, students and employees were sending out messages for participation in the mahapanchayat.Singer, songwriter and actor Parteek Maan said songs and poems regarding the farmer agitation would be recited at the event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kisan-mahapanchayat-on-feb-20-at-rally-ground-214065
18-02-2021||---||CHB to start face-based attendance||Chandigarh, February 17In a first, the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has decided to introduce face-recognition attendance system from March 1.Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB, said the smart attendance management system using face recognition would replace the bio-metric attendance system.From March 1, all officials deputed at the CHB (Headquarters) in Sector 9 will be required to mark their attendance through the face recognition system twice — in the morning and evening.He said the computer in-charge would register all officers and officials on the smart attendance system in the next three to four days and install one machine each at the entry of Block A and C.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chb-to-start-face-based-attendance-214064
18-02-2021||Chandigarh||Board approves plan to improve Chandigarh’s air quality||In a major boost, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has approved the action plan prepared by the Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee to improve the quality of air in the city.In a compliance report submitted before the National Green Tribunal (NGT), the CPCB stated that the action plan of the CPCC was approved by a committee constituted on the directions of the tribunal to review and approve the action plans for utilisation of the consent funds for improving the quality of air.Rs 5 cr sanctionedDebendra Dalai, Director, Environment, and Vice-Chairman, CPCC, said the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change had sanctioned Rs5 crore for taking the required measures to improve the quality of air in the city.Debendra Dalai, Director, Environment, and Vice-Chairman, CPCC, said the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change had sanctioned Rs5 crore for taking the required measures to improve the quality of air in the city.He said the money had been approved for financial year 2020-21 and they were likely to receive it this week only. The UT is among the 102 most-polluted cities. The Ministry releases the funds under the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) to reduce air pollution by 20-30 per cent by 2024 with 2017 as the reference year.He said funds will be distributed among various agencies to take steps to monitor and mitigate air pollution in the city. Among other agencies, the Municipal Corporation will be allocated funds for purchasing road-sweeping machines and sprinklers. A part of the money would also be spent on creating awareness on environment, Dalai said.He said the UT had already prepared a five-year action plan regarding improving the quality of air. Last year, the UT received a sum of Rs10 crore to improve the quality of air in the city, he added.To monitor the air quality of the city on a real-time basis, the CPCC will soon set up two more continuous ambient air-quality monitoring stations (CAAQMS). Dalai said an order had been placed for the procurement of two CAAQMS. Meanwhile, two more such stations would be set up later, he added.The NGT had directed the CPCC to assess the optimal number of stations required. Considering the population, three manual and five CAAQMS have to be installed in the city as per the criteria of the CPCB. However, the city already has a CAAQMS in Sector 25. Five CAAQMS would be set up, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/board-approves-plan-to-improve-chandigarhs-air-quality-214063
18-02-2021||---||Manika overpowers Archana scare in TT||Panchkula, February 17Tournament f4avourite Manika Batra made her way to the semifinals of the UTT 82nd Senior National Table Tennis Championships by overpowering a tough challenge by Archana Kamath, at the Tau Devi Lal Indoor Stadium, Sector 3, today. Manika won 13-11, 11-9, 4-11, 5-11, 9-11, 11-8, 11-4 and 4-3.The top seed had to labour to save her skin and she did it admirably after slipping from the 2-0 comfort zone.Archana, meanwhile, fought back really well to level and go up 3-2. However, Manika showed her class in the sixth game, where she held four game points, and later in the decider, when she sailed into the semis.Archana let opportunity slipped from her hands by committing too many errors in the sixth game, which allowed Manika to breathe easy.Manika will now take on Sreeja Akula in the semis. Sreeja returned from two games down to defeat Prapti Sen 7-11, 11-13, 11-8, 11-7, 7-11, 11-6 and 11-7. She gained the upper hand after being 0-2 down and stamped her authority with two fine games to level score 2-2. Then she dropped one before regaining the upper hand to wrap it up. Takeme Sarkar of the Railways started off well before letting Pooja Sahasrabudhe a 2-1 advantage. But the Railways girl stroked her way to the semifinals when she took the next three games.Takeme defeated Pooja Sahasrabudhe 11-8 9-11 1-11 11-9 11-8 11-9.Reeth Rishya, who accounted for second-seed Sutirtha Mukheree in the pre-quarterfinals, had hiccups but soon came to herself to finish in style with a 4-2 verdict against Kaushani Nath. She logged a 11-2 6-11 9-11 11-7 11-7 11-9.Pre-quarters’ taleEarlier, in the pre quarterfinals, defending champion and second seed Sutirtha Mukherjee went down 3-4 to PSPB’s Reeth. But Archana was fortunate to escape defeat at the hands of TTFI wildcard entrant Anusha who failed to press home the advantage. Top seed Manika outplayed Sagarika Mukherjee of the Railways. Prapti Sen warded off early threats but the rest of the higher seeds played according to the script.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/manika-overpowers-archana-scare-in-tt-214062
18-02-2021||Chandigarh||Aditya, Vanya bag titles||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aditya-vanya-bag-titles-214061
18-02-2021||---||National Cross Country to be held on Feb 21||Chandigarh, February 17After a gap of almost 10 years, the Chandigarh Athletics Association (CAA), in collaboration with the UT Sports Department, will organise the 55th National Cross Country Championship on February 21 at ATS Golf Meadows, Dera Bassi.A total of 589 athletes will compete in the age groups U-16 years, U-18 years, U-20 years and senior (men and women). “The competition will be organised under the auspices of the Athletics Federation of India (AFI),” said Harjinder Singh, president, CAA.“A total of 27 teams will be participating in this championship. The events will be conducted on grass. Covid-19 SOPs will be strictly followed. Defending champions Services Sports Control Board and runners-up Indian Railways have also confirmed their participation,” said Ravinder Chaudhary, general secretary, AFI.No spectators, bio bubble for athletesNo spectators will be allowed at the venue and athletes will be kept in a bio bubbles. “The age verification test will be performed at the Sector 7 Sports Complex and later athletes will be taken to the venue. All participants will move around in a designated area only,” said Ravinder Chaudhary, general secretary, AFI.“The international event, scheduled to be held in Abu Dhabi, has been postponed for unlimited time due to the Covid-19 pandemic. If this tournament gets rescheduled in the coming months, we will definitely select the Indian team from this event in Dera Bassi,” added Chaudhary. He also maintained that AFI will claim to host a SAAF event in coming years. Apart from this, athletes from Ladakh will also be participating for the very first time in the event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/national-cross-country-to-be-held-on-feb-21-214060
18-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Congress wins in Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib, February 17The Congress swept the polls in Fatehgarh Sahib district as its candidates won in all the four Municipal Councils (MCs).In Mandi Gobindgarh MC, one of the richest civic bodies of the state, the Congress won in 19 wards out of 29, whereas the BJP could not open its account, SAD (B) won four seats, AAP got two seats and Independents won on four seats.In Sirhind-Fatehgarh Sahib district headquarter Municipal Council 19 Congress candidates won in their respective wards. The BJP failed to open its account while AAP replaced SAD in three wards as the latter managed to win only one seat.MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra administered an oath to newly elected councillors.In Bassi Pathana MC Congress candidates won on nine seats out of 15, SAD (B) won on two seats, AAP on one seat and Independent one three seats.In Khamano Nagar Panchayat the Congress could win only five seats out of 13. Independents considered the Congress rebels won on six seats, SAD (B) managed only one seat and the BSP also opened its account by winning one seat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-wins-in-fatehgarh-sahib-214059
18-02-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Will NSDC relaxation affect COA elections?||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 17In a major move, the Ministry of Sports, Government of India, has suggested inclusion of relaxations in some clauses of the National Sports Development Code of India (2011) for the benefit of the National Sports Federations (NSFs) and the Indian Olympic Association (IOA).Though the suggestions are yet to be finalised by the Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Youth Affairs and Sports, in the form of the guidelines, it will be interesting to see if these relaxations also get extended to the UTs along with the states. Nature of RelaxationExperts believe that the nature of relaxation may come as a benefit for certain state associations, which are already facing conflicts within. While for UTs, these changes may not affect as much.The update is also important for Chandigarh as the Chandigarh Olympic Association (COA) is already witnessing a battle among its members for attaining the power. These relaxations may help them to achieve their target or may get them completely out of the contention for contesting the elections.As per the circular, issued recently, “The National Sports Development Code of India has been in force since March 31, 2011. The government has also from time to time issued certain other guidelines and instruction with regard to governance and management of the IOA and the NSF. It has been decided to add relaxation clause provision at number 16 under ‘Relaxation Clause of the Sports Code 2011’ at page 32.”The clause“The government has the power to relax any of the provisions of the National Sports Development Code (NSDC) of India and other instructions issued with regard to recognition of NSFs; renewal of recognition of NSFs (on annual basis); governance and management of IOA and NSFs, as a special exemption wherever considered necessary and expedient for the promotion of sports, sportspersons or to remove difficulties. It has been considered for giving a true effect to that particular provision of the Sports Code — to always being guided by and not inconsistent with the overarching spirit of good governance and ethical conduct enshrined in the Sports Code. The reason for such relaxation shall be recorded in writing. Power to relax the provision will vest with the Minister In-Charge of the Ministry of Youth Affairs & Sports.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/will-nsdc-relaxation-affect-coa-elections-214058
18-02-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Kang blamed for Congress debacle in Kharar, Nayagaon||Tribune News ServiceMohali, February 17Voices of dissent have started surfacing against senior Congress leader and former MLA Jagmohan Singh Kang as the party could not perform well in the Kharar and Nayagaon municipal councils (MC) which are part of the Kharar Assembly segment.Prominent among the losers is Sukhwant Singh Sukhi, brother of Cabinet minister Charanjit Singh Channi, who lost the election from Ward No. 24 of the Kharar MC against AAP candidate Ram Sarup by a margin of only 12 votes.SAD had got absolute majority in the Nayagaon MC while the Kharar MC heads for a hung House as no party has got a clear majority. Eight Independents would be the deciding factor as to which party would run the affairs of the Kharar MC.Kang was being held responsible for the party’s debacle in both MCs as he had given a large number of ticket to his supporters causing disappointment among the party cadre. Most of the candidates who contested against their own party candidates have won as independents.Reliable sources within the Congress also believe that the way Kang is running the party, internal resentment is increasing. Jagmohan Kang has avenged his defeat in the 2017 Assembly elections largely indirectly from these local leaders and activists, while due to the untiring efforts of these activists and leaders, Manish Tiwari scored a spectacular victory in the Kharar Lok Sabha constituency.Despite repeated attempts Kang could not be contacted for his views over the issue.Senior leader slams MLASenior Punjab Congress leader and Punjab State Cooperative Agriculture Development Bank chairman Kamaldeep Saini, while making a scathing attack on ex-MLA Jagmohan Singh Kang, said this time he had done a lot of damage to the party due to his stubbornness and dictatorship in the distribution of ticket. “While the Congress has won heavily in Punjab, the results in Kharar constituency have not been very encouraging,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kang-blamed-for-congress-debacle-in-kharar-nayagaon-214050
18-02-2021||Gaurav Kanthwal||Close win in Zirakpur, Dera Bassi||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, February 17Shiromani Akali Dal candidate from Ward No. 10 Jagdev Singh Peermuchalla has won against the Congress candidate Harsh Rishi by five votes (421-416). Thirteen voters pressed NOTA in this ward.Another SAD candidate, Jaswinder Kaur, beat the Congress’ Paramjit Kaur by five votes (583-578) in Ward No.1 of Dera Bassi. Eighteen votes went to NOTA.The biggest margin of win in the Zirakpur Municipal Council was in Ward No. 14 where Congress candidate Harjit Singh Minta defeated the SAD candidate by a margin of 1,204 votes (1456-252). Minta is tipped to get a plum post in the council.Among the prominent candidates, Congress candidate from Ward No. 12 of Zirakpur Udayvir Singh Dhillon defeated Dilbagh Singh (SAD) by 389 votes (789-400). Udayvir, son of Dera Bassi Congress in-charge Deepinder Singh Dhillon, was contesting the MC elections for the first time. He is tipped as the next MC chief.Dharminder Sharma of SAD (Ward No. 18) and Yadwinder Sharma (Ward No. 22), both brothers of Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma, also registered comprehensive wins, defeating their nearest rivals by 209 and 356 votes respectively. However, SAD’s Kulwinder Sohi, former president of Zirakpur municipal council, lost to the Congress candidate by 516 votes in Ward No. 4.In Ward No. 8, the SAD candidate won by a margin of 38 votes while in Ward No. 13, the Congress candidate Gurpreet Kaur won by 52 votes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/close-win-in-zirakpur-dera-bassi-214046
18-02-2021||Chandigarh||2 of 5 suspects held in Sec 15 firing incident||Two of the five suspects, who were booked on a charge of opening fire in Sector 15, have been arrested. The suspects, Jenta and Nikhil, will be produced in a court tomorrow.Five persons, including Mannu Dubey, husband of Chandigarh Mahila Congress president Deipa Asdhir Dubey, were booked on a charge of opening fire outside Dubey’s house. The suspects allegedly fired three gunshots to threaten the house tenant and his friends, who were also “assaulted”, on the intervening night of February 14 and 15.The police said Mannu Dubey and his accomplices had obstructed the way of complainant Gurdass Singh (23) and had argued with him over repeatedly inviting outsiders to the house.Mannu and his accomplices allegedly thrashed the complainant and his friend Ravi. Later, during the night, the complainant and his friends returned to the rented accommodation to collect their belongings and their car. In the meantime, Mannu and his accomplices — Jenta, Nikhil, Vishal and Tarsem Singh — who were carrying sticks and arms, caught hold of complainant’s friend Manjit and started assaulting him.Police sources said Tarsem reportedly fired gunshots into the air to threaten the victims and later escaped. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-of-5-suspects-held-in-sec-15-firing-incident-214045
18-02-2021||Amarjot Kaur||Madan Singh — The man who led last mutiny against the British||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 17The Royal Indian Navy Mutiny commands a special mention among the many valorous revolts of India’s freedom movement for it was spearheaded by the ratings of minority communities, with no political backing, who challenged the colonial rule, waged a one-day general strike in Bombay, shot left-handed salutes to British officials and took up cudgels with a leading daily for “negative reporting”.Into its 75th year now, the memoirs of the mutiny unfurl with the words of Annurag Dhillon, daughter of Madan Singh, the feisty rebel, freedom fighter and then petty officer telegraphist of a shore establishment, HMIS Talwar.In an attempt to recreate the events of February 18, 1946, Dhillon unknowingly paints the portrait of a nationalist, evoking a passionate narrative of India’s nationalist movement where religious identities blurred and people of India united to boot out the ‘divide and rule’ politics of the British.For one, she mentions, Leading Signalman Lieutenant MS Khan. “My father, a Sikh, was the first choice for the president of the Naval Central Strike Committee (NCSC). But he declined the offer because there were many Muslims in the establishment. It would have made it easier for the British to divide us on religious grounds, he would tell us. So, MS Khan was chosen as the president, my father became the vice-president,” recalls Dhillon on the verandah of her house in Sector 16.“You see, back then, Commander Bailey was replaced by Lieutenant Commander King. He was anti-Indian. One day, while taking a round, he chided the Indians at the establishment and called them ‘sons of Indian b*tches’. This language wasn’t acceptable to the staff,” she narrates.Her son Zorawar Singh Dhillon joins in. “They wanted to complain against King, but he was the final authority. Left with no option, ultimately BC Dutta was chosen to speak with King. Expectedly, King replied: ‘Do you know the consequences about lying to the commander?’ King went back on his words and then detained Dutta. That further infuriated them,” he says.Dhillon recounts her father’s words as she adds: “The following day, they were served terrible breakfast and most of them walked out of the dining room in disgust. Together, they decided not to fall in. My father stopped the ratings to go to the parade ground at one of the three entrance tunnels. People from Royal Indian Navy Voluntary Reserve came to appease them, but in vain. They didn’t talk to them as they were doubtful of their intentions.”In a couple hours, she said, “Commander Rattray held a meeting with them and asked them to choose their leaders so that they can talk to him. That’s when the NCSC came into being.”Narrating tales of how they took possession of telephones, cables, ammunition at Butcher Island and wireless office to contacting about 70 ships and other establishments, Dhillon states, “The next day, a call for general strike was given. On the evening of February 18, my father had sent out a press statement regarding the strike by all unions of Bombay. The next day, all papers mentioned the strike, except one, which was against it.”She recalls how Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and Indian Muslim League objected to the strike, but the members refused to give in. “However, it was strange that a leading daily had reported negatively. Sir Francis Lyod, who headed the daily, called HMIS Talwar and sent a message to my dad: ‘Help us, we are in trouble’. The naval people had lined their guns on the newspaper’s building and my father had no idea about it. As he went to meet Sir Francis, he reassured him that they had no intention of hurting anyone. However, he did tell him to report the truth. He said: ‘You write what you see, what you hear, and do what you know’.”In retrospect, Dhillon wonders if one could still do that now. “My father also took up journalism. He was reporting for a journal, but resigned because he didn’t want to write what the journal’s authorities wanted him to. That’s the kind of man my father was,” she says.The Madan Singh class of tugboats, a series of service watercraft built by Tebma Shipyard Limited (a subsidiary of Bharati Shipyard Ltd), were launched for Indian Navy in 1999.My nephew Sebastian Raj Pender, an eminent historian in the UK, who is half British, half Indian, is writing a book on the mutiny,” informs Dhillon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/madan-singh-%E2%80%94-the-man-who-led-last-mutiny-against-the-british-214044
18-02-2021||---||Out for a test ride, unknown man makes off with Bullet motorcycle||Chandigarh, February 17An unknown man escaped with a Bullet motorcycle on the pretext of taking a test ride. Complainant Neeraj Bajaj, a resident of Sector 40 who is into the business of selling second-hand two-wheelers, reported that he had advertised a motorcycle on OLX.The complainant received a call from a person who expressed the desire to buy the motorcycle. The police said the complainant asked the person to come to his house on February 16.The suspect took the motorcycle for a test ride, but did not return.The police were informed following which a case under Section 406 (criminal breach of trust) of the IPC was registered at the Sector 39 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/out-for-a-test-ride-unknown-man-makes-off-with-bullet-motorcycle-214043
18-02-2021||Chandigarh||Rights panel closes case about death of 32 people in Panchkula violence||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has closed the case pertaining to 32 deaths during violence in Panchkula following conviction of Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh in August 2017. In its order, the NHRC said no further interference was required since the case was already before the High Court. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rights-panel-closes-case-about-death-of-32-people-in-panchkula-violence-213827
18-02-2021||Chandigarh||65-year-old woman offered lift in car, loses gold bangles to 3||A three-member gang stole gold bangles of a 65-year-old woman after making her sit in a car on the pretext of dropping her home.Complainant Kailash Rani, a resident of Sector 44, was returning home from a temple on Tuesday when she saw a white car parked near a private hospital in Sector 44.She reported that a girl was standing outside the car while a woman was sitting on the rear seat and a man was on the driver’s seat. The victim said the woman told her that she lived near her house and would drop her home. In the meantime, the girl standing outside the car forced the victim to sit in the car.The suspects then drove the car towards the market and dropped the victim. She later realised that her gold bangles were missing. A case has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/65-year-old-woman-offered-lift-in-car-loses-gold-bangles-to-3-214042
18-02-2021||---||59.39% voters show up in repoll at two booths||Mohali, February 17Amid tight security arrangements, 59.39 per cent voter turnout was witnessed during the repolling for the Mohali Municipal Corporation elections at two booths — 32 and 33 — of Ward No. 10 today.Also read:Mohali MC results: Congress wins in 13 wards, Azad group in 7There was nearly a 7 per cent decrease in the polling as 66.29 per cent turnout was recorded on February 14.There are 1,648 votes in these two booths of whom 999 voters — 497 male and 502 female — exercised their franchise. While 527 votes were polled in Ward No. 32, 472 votes were cast in Ward No. 33.Other than voters, no one was allowed to enter the area within 200 metres of the main entrance of the polling centre building. Congress candidate Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu and Azad Group candidate Paramjit Singh Kahlon remained present near the main gate of the polling station.The polling process was smooth till 3 pm, but later Kahlon alleged that the Congress candidate was getting fake votes polled. The police arrested two persons. Daler Singh Multani, Kahlon’s election agent, said those in “pink turbans and white kurta pyjamas” were not being stopped by the police and they were entering without showing their identity proof.Cabinet Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu termed the allegations of bogus voting by the Azad Group baseless. The State Election Commission had, on Tuesday, ordered repolling in the two booths in Ward No. 10 after Kahlon complained that there was “booth capturing” by Congress workers.The counting of votes in all 50 wards of the Mohali MC will be held tomorrow. All eyes are now on this as the Congress has got an absolute majority in five of the seven municipal councils in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/59-39-voters-show-up-in-repoll-at-two-booths-214037
18-02-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Congress in saddle in 5 of 7 councils||Tribune News ServiceMohali, February 17The Congress has won an absolute majority in five of the seven municipal councils in the district. The counting of votes was held today.The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) won an absolute majority in the Nayagaon MC, while in Kharar, it was a hung House with no party getting an absolute majority. Eight Independent candidates won the elections and will play a key role in deciding as to which party bags power in the Kharar MC.The elections to the Kurali, Kharar, Nayagaon, Banur, Zirakpur, Dera Bassi and Lalru municipal councils were held on February 14. The elections were held in 145 wards of the seven councils. The Congress won in 85 wards, the SAD in 34, the BJP in five and AAP in one. Independent candidates won in 20 wards.District Electoral Officer Girish Dayalan said in the Kurali MC, the Congress won in nine wards, the SAD in two, Independent candidates in five and the BJP in one. In 13 wards of the Banur MC, the Congress won in 12 seats and the SAD in one. In 21 wards of the Nayagaon MC, the SAD won in 10, the Congress in six, the BJP in three, while Independents won in two.Of the 17 wards in the Lalru MC, the Congress won in 12, the SAD in two, while Independent candidates won in three.In 31 wards of the Zirakpur MC, the Congress won in 23, while SAD candidates won in eight. Of the 19 wards in the Dera Bassi MC, the Congress won in 13, the SAD in three, the BJP in one and Independents in two. In 27 wards of the Kharar MC, the Congress won in 10 wards, the SAD in eight, AAP in one and Independents in eight. Independents win in 20 wardsThe elections to the Kurali, Kharar, Nayagaon, Banur, Zirakpur, Dera Bassi and Lalru municipal councils were held on February 14. The elections were held in 145 wards of the seven councils. The Congress won in 85 wards, the SAD in 34, the BJP in five and AAP in one. Independent candidates won in 20 wards.Channi’s brother loses by 12 votesAmong the prominent candidates who lost the municipal council elections by a thin margin was Sukhwant Singh Sukhi, Congress candidate and brother of Cabinet Minister Charanjit Singh Channi from Ward No. 24 in Kharar. He lost by 12 votes to Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) candidate Ram Sarup. However, Channi’s nephew Manpreet Singh Mann won from Ward No. 2.Couple wins as IndependentsA couple, Harinder Pal Singh Jolly and his wife Namita Jolly, contesting as Independents, won the poll from Ward No. 10 and 11, respectively, in Kharar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-in-saddle-in-5-of-7-councils-214034
18-02-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Amarinder assures support to farmers during his impromptu stop at Chandigarh’s Matka chowk||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh made an impromptu visit at Matka Chowk in Chandigarh on Wednesday evening, to interact with youth and professors protesting in solidarity with farmers camping at Delhi borders.CM Amarinder ensured his and his government’s complete support to the farmers protesting against the farm laws.“@capt_amarinder made an impromptu stop and interacted with youngsters, professionals & others sitting at Matka Chowk in Chandigarh in solidarity with farmers camping at Delhi borders. Such protests have been going on in the city for the last three months.1/2,” tweeted media adviser to Punjab CM, Raveen Thukral.During the interaction, CM @capt_amarinder expressed his and his government’s full support for the farmers protesting against the #Farmlaws & assured of all possible steps to protect the interests of the farming community. 2/2 pic.twitter.com/CYWdawfi3a  “During the interaction, CM @capt_amarinder expressed his and his government’s full support for the farmers protesting against the #Farmlaws & assured of all possible steps to protect the interests of the farming community. 2/2,” read another tweet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/amarinder-assures-support-to-farmers-during-his-impromptu-stop-at-chandigarhs-matka-chowk-213787
18-02-2021||Karam Prakash||Poor response to Covid vaccine drive in Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, February 16The vaccination drive in the district garnered a poor response among health workers as only 30 per cent of the beneficiaries received the vaccine in the first phase.The Health Department has already started administering the second dose to health workers. Meanwhile, the Patiala Civil Surgeon received the second jab on Monday.In the first phase, which had started on January 16, only 4,637 frontline health workers received the vaccine shot. The number of targeted health workers was 14,500. Of the 4,367 vaccinated, 3,207 are government employees and 1,430 are from the private sector.The Health Department said they had extended the vaccination deadline for health workers from February 12 to 19. Thereafter, no frontline health workers would be given the vaccine shot.Reportedly, health workers are still hesitant to get themselves vaccinated despite an extension in the deadline. As per the Health Department, only 104 health workers received the vaccine in the past five days.Source said both private and government sectors exhibited poor response, despite repeated appeals by the Patiala Civil Surgeon.Dr Satinder Singh, Civil Surgeon, said: “I tried a lot to motivate health workers. However, results are disappointing. I was first one to get the shot during first phase to infuse confidence in workers. I have now also received the dose.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/poor-response-to-covid-vaccine-drive-in-patiala-213497
18-02-2021||---||Just 21 get second jab in Panchkula||Panchkula, February 16Just 21 healthcare workers received the second dose of Covid vaccine today.Six healthcare workers and 31 frontline workers were also administered the first jab. The overall number of beneficiaries – first dose and second dose – was 58.The target was to vaccinate 100 beneficiaries each at two centres – the Civil Hospital and Alchemist Hospital. The district fell short by a huge margin of 142 beneficiaries, registering only 29 per cent coverage rate.The process of administering the second dose of the Covid vaccine had started yesterday, with 173 healthcare workers turning up for the second jab.As many as 8,763 beneficiaries have been vaccinated in the district so far.33.23% turn up in ChandigarhChandigarh: As many as 108 healthcare workers turned up for the second jab of Covid-19 vaccine against a target of 325 on Tuesday, registering the second dose coverage rate of 33.23 per cent.A total of 252 health care workers have received the second dose in the city so far.Against the overall target – first dose and second dose – of 3,152, only 652 beneficiaries received the Covid-19 vaccine on Tuesday.So far, over 10,000 beneficiaries have received the vaccine. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/just-21-get-second-jab-in-panchkula-213429
