19-02-2021||Mumbai||Ayushmann Khurrana, Vaani Kapoor-starrer ‘Chandigarh Kare Aashiqui’ to hit theatres in July||Filmmaker Abhishek Kapoor’s romantic-drama “Chandigarh Kare Aashiqui”, featuring Ayushmann Khurrana and Vaani Kapoor, is set to release in theatres on July 9.In the film, billed as a “progressive love story”, Khurrana will be seen essaying the role of a cross-functional athlete.The announcement of the film’s release date was made by the official handle of production house T-Series on Twitter on Friday. “Abhishek Kapoor’s #ChandigarhKareAashiqui starring Ayushmann Khurrana and Vaani Kapoor is all set for a theatrical release on 9th July 2021. “A modern-day love story produced by Bhushan Kumar’s T-Series and Pragya Kapoor’s Guy in the Sky Pictures,” read the tweet alongside a picture of the film’s team, including producers Bhushan Kumar and Pragya Kapoor.The production of the movie commenced amid the coronavirus pandemic in October 2020 and the team wrapped the film in about 48 days in Chandigarh.“Chandigarh Kare Aashiqui” marks Abhishek Kapoor’s return to direction three years after the romantic-drama “Kedarnath”.This is the filmmaker’s first collaboration with Khurrana, who was last seen in “Gulabo Sitabo”.Khurrana is currently working on “Anek”, which reunites the actor with his “Article 15” director Anubhav Sinha.Apart from “Chandigarh Kare Aashiqui”, Vaani Kapoor will also feature in Ranbir Kapoor-starrer “Shamshera” and “Bellbottom”, opposite superstar Akshay Kumar. While “Shamshera” is set to release on June 25, “Bellbottom” will arrive in theatres on May 28. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ayushmann-khurrana-vaani-kapoor-starrer-chandigarh-kare-aashiqui-to-hit-theatres-in-july-214708
19-02-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Congress all the way; SAD, BJP wiped out in Mohali MC elections||Tribune News ServiceMohali, February 18The Congress swept the Mohali Municipal Corporation elections with 37 of its candidates emerging victorious. The Kulwant Singh-led Azad Group bagged 10 seats, while the remaining three seats were won by Independents. The results were declared here today.Also read: Kulwant’s exit led to SAD wipeout: Political punditsThe Congress now has a two-thirds majority in the MC House that has 50 councillors. The SAD and the BJP, which had parted ways before the elections over the three farm laws, were wiped out.Prominent winnersFormer deputy mayors Manjit Singh Sethi and Rishav Jain, and Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu, brother of Cabinet Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, were among the prominent candidates who won.LosersKulwant Singh, former Mayor and head of the Azad Group, lost the elections. Kulwant Singh lost the poll from Ward No. 42 by 263 votes to his nearest rival Amrik Singh Somal of the Congress, who polled 947 votes. However, Kulwant’s son Sarabjit Singh won the elections as an Independent from Ward No. 38. Former BJP councillor Sahibee Anand and Azad Group candidate Paramjit Singh Kahlon also lost the elections.The maximum number of votes — 1,751 — was polled by Congress candidate Baljit Kaur from Ward No. 7, while Congress’ Bharat Bhushan Saini lost the poll from Ward No. 50 by 10 votes to Pardeep Kumar (Independent).Due to the delimitation of wards carried out in the MC last year, seven Independent candidates received only one vote while five Independents were unable to get even a single vote. As many as 1,846 opted for the NOTA (none of the above) option.A large number of candidates (33) who contested the elections for the first time also won. Prominent among them are Harjinder Kaur Sohan and Kuldeep Kaur Dhanoa, wives of former councillors Parminder Singh Sohana and Satvir Singh Dhanoa, respectively.Former councillors who retained their seat include Jaspreet Kaur, Rajinder Singh Rana, Kuljit Singh Bedi, Rajrani Jain, Jasbir Singh Manku, Ravinder Singh Bindra, Harmanpreet Kaur Kumbhra, Sukhdev Singh Patwari, Sarabjit Singh, Karamjit Kaur, Kulwant Kaur, Suman and Narain Singh Sidhu.The winning candidates, along with their supporters, carried out a victory march in their respective wards. Meanwhile, highly educated women candidates, Dr Tanmeet Kaur Sahiwal of the SAD and Chhavi Sharma of the BJP, could not cross the double digit mark as they got 81 and 77 votes, respectively, in Ward No 18.Independent candidate Nirmal Kaur, who had lost the previous elections by one vote, today won from Ward No. 15 by 203 votes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-all-the-way-sad-bjp-wiped-out-in-mohali-mc-elections-214505
19-02-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Kulwant’s exit led to SAD wipeout: Political pundits||Tribune News ServiceMohali, February 18Political pundits keenly watching the elections claim that the parting of ways by former Mayor Kulwant Singh from the SAD led to the defeat of the party candidates in the Mohali MC elections.They say after Kulwant Singh, a SAD loyalist, turned rebel and decided to contest the elections independently, the winning chances of the SAD were hit. Kulwant Singh felt that the election committee, headed by Prof Prem Singh Chandumajra and Charanjit Singh Brar, had ignored him and other local leaders during the distribution of tickets. After this, SAD leaders and former councillors had decided to fight the elections as Independents. Senior leaders Daljit Singh Cheema had tried to woo back Kulwant Singh and his team, but he stuck to his stand.Even though 10 of his candidates under the banner of Azad Group managed to win the elections, Kulwant Singh himself lost the election. He was hoping that people in the city would vote for him and his candidates keeping in view the development carried out by him during the past five years. The Azad Group, led by Kulwant Singh, had won the elections in 2015 and Kulwant Singh was elected the Mayor with support from 14 Congress councillors and two Independent candidates. Later in August 2017, Kulwant joined the SAD.Political pundits further stated that the other reason for SAD losing the elections was the parting of ways by the SAD from its alliance partner BJP across Punjab over the three contentious farm laws. The division of votes between the SAD, BJP and Independent candidates had not only caused damage to the SAD but also to the BJP.Satvir Singh Dhanoa, a former SAD councillor, said people were now fed up with political parties. He said they had decided to contest the elections as Independent as that was what people wanted. He said time has now come for all councillors to work for the betterment of people and the development of the city.Prof Prem Singh Chandumajra said they had selected the candidates on merit. He said the main reasons for the defeat were the rigging of polling booths, misuse of government machinery and bungling of votes. He said the Congress would have to face the consequences for this in the next Assembly elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kulwants-exit-led-to-sad-wipeout-political-pundits-214506
19-02-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 30 fresh cases||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-30-fresh-cases-214507
19-02-2021||Mohali||Mohali witnesses another fatality||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-witnesses-another-fatality-214508
19-02-2021||Panchkula||9 new cases, 1 death in Panchkula||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/9-new-cases-1-death-in-panchkula-214509
19-02-2021||---||Man carries cyclist’s body on vehicle rooftop for 10 km, nabbed||Tribune News ServiceMohali, February 18The Mohali police have arrested the car driver who, after hitting a cyclist, kept on driving the vehicle with the victim’s body on the rooftop for about 10 km in the city and later dumped it near Sunny Enclave. Dumped body after 10 km, fled spotAccording to the police, the incident took place when a rashly driven car coming from the Zirakpur side on Airport Road hit the cyclist coming from the opposite direction. Such was the impact that the victim landed on the car’s rooftop and the driver, instead of stopping the vehicle, kept on driving for 10 km. Later, the car driver dumped the body near Sunny Enclave showrooms and fled from the spot.The car driver has been identified as Nirmal Singh, a resident of Khamano in Fatehgarh Sahib district.The victim has been identified as Yogender Mandal (35), a resident of Aero City block in the city. He was rushed to the Civil Hospital where he was declared brought dead.According to the police, the incident took place when a rashly driven car coming from the Zirakpur side on Airport Road hit the cyclist coming from the opposite direction. Such was the impact that the victim landed on the car’s rooftop and the driver, instead of stopping the vehicle, kept on driving for 10 km. Later, the car driver dumped the body near Sunny Enclave showrooms and fled from the spot. A passer-by informed the police about the incident.DSP Rupinderdeep Kaur Sohi reached the spot. On checking the CCTV footage, the DSP found that the car driver had dumped the body and fled from the site.The police have registered a case against the car driver under Sections 279, 427, 304-A and 201 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and took the vehicle into their custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-carries-cyclists-body-on-vehicle-rooftop-for-10-km-nabbed-214510
19-02-2021||Mohali||Liquor smuggled from Haryana seized||Under operation ‘red rose’, the Excise Department has busted a gang that used to smuggle liquor from Haryana by creating a special cabin in trucks.A spokesperson for the department said they received a tip-off that Dheeraj Kumar, a resident of Hiana Kalan, Nabha, Ravi and Rampal, liquor contractors of Haryana, Pappu, a resident of Mohie, Ludhiana, Narinder Singh of Rajpura, Amritpal Singh of Rampura Phul and others were involved in the smuggling of a huge quantity of liquor in vehicles from Haryana and selling it in and around Ludhiana and Fatehgarh Sahib districts.A special barricade was set up at t-point on the GT Road near Mehmudpur Jattan, and the smugglers’ vehicle was apprehended and a huge quantity of liquor seized. Dheeraj Kumar, along with two others, were arrested. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/liquor-smuggled-from-haryana-seized-214511
19-02-2021||Chandigarh||Athletics Club is volleyball champ||Athletics Club, Sector 7, won the Sub-Junior State Volleyball Championship today. In the boys’ final, the Sector 7 outfit defeated Panjab University Campus team 20-25, 25-14, 20-25, 25-22 and 21-19. Hospitech Club claimed the third position.Earlier, in the semifinals, PU Coaching Centre registered a 25-17, 25-14 win over Sports Complex, Sector 42, and Athletics Club defeated Hospitech Club 25-20, 25-15.In the girls’ sun-junior final, Star Club, Sector 46, defeated Sports Complex, Sector 7. Sports Club, Sector 26, finished at the third position. Meanwhile, in the senior league matches, ESIC, Chandigarh, logged win over Sports Complex, Sector 42. Government College for Commerce & Business Administration, Sector 50, logged win over Titan Volley Club. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/athletics-club-is-volleyball-champ-214512
19-02-2021||---||Manika wins 2nd table tennis nationals title||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, February 18A “calm and composed” Manika Batra recovered from a two-game deficit and survived some anxious moments before she beat Reeth Rishya 4-2 to win her second title in the Senior National Table Tennis Championships here today.Egged on by her support staff from the stands at a near-empty hall at Tau Devi Lal Stadium, Manika scripted a remarkable comeback after losing the first two games 8-11, 10-12 and trailing 3-9 in the fourth game. Manika won eight points on the trot to make it 2-2 and then switched gears to claim the fifth and sixth games as a dumbstruck Reeth was forced into submission.“She was playing well, but I kept my calm and waited for my opportunities to make a comeback,” an elated Manika said after the match.“I am really happy to win this one as it came after a long break,” said the Commonwealth Games gold medallist and Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna awardee.Manika, who won her maiden nationals title in 2015 in Hyderabad, also acknowledged “the level of competition”, saying every participant had come “well prepared” for the tournament.This was the first major tournament for Indian women’s paddlers after a nearly year-long break due to the pandemic.Reeth looked good in the first two sets as she pushed Manika on the back foot with her service and some attacking shots, particularly off the backhand. However, India’s top women’s paddler pulled her way back to win the third game 11-1 to remain in the contest.Though Manika was again in trouble in the fourth game, Reeth gave away some easy points to her opponent and she was more than happy to grab the opportunity with both hands.“I was leading 9-3, but as she (Manika) won a few points, I suddenly felt the heat. I was blanked and probably it was at that point I lost the match,” said Reeth.She congratulated Manika for keeping her composure and said she needed to learn how to stay calm in crunch situations.“I am bit disappointed, but I have made a lot of progress and there is only one way which I can go from here on,” said a determined PSPB paddler.Earlier, Manika beat Sreeja Akula 11-4, 10-12, 16-14, 11-8 and 11-5 in the semifinals, while Reeth prevailed 11-8, 4-11, 11-6, 11-6 and 11-3 against Takeme Sarkar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/manika-wins-2nd-table-tennis-nationals-title-214513
19-02-2021||Chandigarh||Youth jailed for cheating woman||TPS Randhawa, Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, Chandigarh, has sentenced a youth to rigorous imprisonment for 20 months for cheating a woman. The accused, Deepak, was arrested on the complaint of Navita Sharma, a city resident.In the complaint, she alleged that she went to the SBI, Sector 7C, Chandigarh, for depositing Rs49,000 in her PPF account on November 19, 2018. When she was filing the form, the accused approached her and told her that the cash would be deposited in the cash deposit machine. Presuming him to be a bank employee, she went with him to the ATM.They encountered some problem and the accused went to the cashier, but did not return for a long time. When she went to the bank manager, he told her that sometimes cash is taken into the machine and no receipt is issued by it. He said he would get the cash checked and refund the amount after two days. When she visited the bank on November 22, 2018, the manager told her that there was no extra money in the machine and probably the person who offered her help, had taken it away. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-jailed-for-cheating-woman-214515
19-02-2021||---||Negligible impact on rail services: Officials||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 18Farmers today staged a dharna on railway tracks near the Sector 19 railway crossing on a call given by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) for countrywide ‘rail roko’ against three contentious farm laws, blocking the Chandigarh rail route for four hours – between noon and 4 pm.Sloganeering against the Centre throughout, protesters were served with ‘langar’ at the site during the lunch hours.There was negligible impact of ‘rail roko’ on the train services via the Chandigarh railway station, said railway officials. Several trains had already passed through the station before the protesting hours. Only passengers of Paschim Express had to face a tough time, as it was reportedly stopped at the Ludhiana railway station and did not reach the city.Bhartiya Kisan Union (Chaduni) Panchkula president Narender Singh Nayagaon said they were here to save the country from ‘black angrez’.“From railway stations, hospital, airports – every asset of independent India is being sold out. They won’t spare anything,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/negligible-impact-on-rail-services-officials-214516
19-02-2021||---||Auction of heritage furniture in USA, Paris on Feb 25, 27||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 18Heritage furniture from the city will be auctioned in the US and Paris on February 25 and 27, respectively.“An armchair of the UT, which is likely to fetch nearly Rs3.63 lakh to Rs5.09 lakh, will be auctioned by Toomey & Co at Oak Park, IL, USA, on February 25,” said Ajay Jagga, member, Heritage Protection Cell, Chandigarh.Similarly, five heritage items designed by Pierre Jeanneret would be auctioned in Paris on February 27, he said.He said a pair of stools, a pair of chairs, easy chairs, a desk with rectangular top upholstered in green leather and a dining table could be sold for nearly Rs33.87 lakh in the auction.In a letter, Jagga requested S Jayashankar, Union Minister for External Affairs, to look into the matter so that the auction of our smuggled heritage items could be stalled, after ascertaining the facts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/auction-of-heritage-furniture-in-usa-paris-on-feb-25-27-214517
19-02-2021||---||Farmers hold sit-in, block tracks in Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, February 18Farmers and residents of the city today held a sit-in and blocked railway tracks in protest against the farm laws in the city today. The protest continued for over four hours during which trains were not allowed to pass through the city.Farmers, advocates and residents of the city alike along with children and women raised slogans against the Centre Government and demanded that the farm laws should be repealed at the earliest.Buta Singh Shadipur of Bhartiya Kisan Manch (Shadipur) said, “Rail tracks are being blocked on a call given by Sanyukt Kisan Morcha. In all, 472 unions are part of the protest and 32 union leaders are from Punjab. The government has not said a word about deaths of farmers during the protest.”Commenting on the plight of farmers under arrest, he said, “Our panel of advocates is helping all farmers arrested by the police. Some farmers have been released.”Nirmal Singh Lachkani, one of the farmers present at the protest site said, “We have gathered here to protest against the three farm laws implemented by the Centre Government. We have blocked rail tracks earlier too. We want that the people, who have been arrested by the government regarding protests, should also be released at the earliest.”Kuldeep Singh, another protester, said, “People from non-farming backgrounds have also come to protest against the laws. They have been protesting and raising voice against the farm laws peacefully for months’ altogether, but the government has failed to provide solution.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farmers-hold-sit-in-block-tracks-in-patiala-214518
19-02-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Need-based changes already allowed in flats: CHB Secretary||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 18Days after UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore gave directions to examine the demand of residents for one-time regularisation of additional construction on the Delhi pattern, the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has stated that need-based changes have already been allowed.In response to a memorandum submitted by the CHB Residents’ Welfare Federation to the UT Administrator, the CHB Secretary stated that the UT Administrator had allowed need-based changes for CHB dwelling units in relaxation of the Chandigarh Building Rules on February 11, 2019. The said relaxations were recommended by a committee consisting of officers of the CHB, the Chandigarh Administration and a representative of the CHB Flats Welfare Federation. Finally, the need-based relaxations were allowed on February 15, 2019.Over the years, thousands of CHB allottees had made need-based changes in their flats. However, the Administration had not regularised these changes and issued notices to the violators.The federation has been demanding one-time settlement for regularisation of the changes on the Delhi pattern.The federation had even handed over 10,000 signed letters to the Administrator for allowing regularisation of the changes on the Delhi pattern at reasonable charges.The federation demanded that the charges should be fixed to suit the pockets of the lower-middle class.Nirmal Dutt, chairman of the federation, said they were aware of the need-based changes allowed by the CHB, but residents had not been able to get relief.He said they had demanded that additional covered area and all constructions done in the flat be regularised on the Delhi pattern.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/need-based-changes-already-allowed-in-flats-chb-secretary-214519
19-02-2021||Panchkula||211 get second dose in Panchkula||As many as 301 health care and frontline workers, including 211 recipients of second dose, were administered the Covid-19 vaccine on Thursday, crossing the vaccination target of 300.The vaccination drive was conducted at just two sites – the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 and the Primary Health Centre in Pinjore.No adverse event following immunisation was reported among those who took the vaccine, stated health officials. So far, 9,252 beneficiaries (both healthcare and frontline workers) have been vaccinated in the district.146 recipients in cityChandigarh: As many as 944 healthcare and frontline workers, including 146 recipients of second dose, were administered the Covid-19 vaccine on Thursday, against a target of 4,196. The vaccine coverage rate stood at 22.49 per cent. So far, 11,916 beneficiaries (both healthcare and frontline workers) have been vaccinated in the city. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/211-get-second-dose-in-panchkula-214526
19-02-2021||Saurabh Malik||High Court restrains PSPCL from snapping supply to Omaxe society||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 18In a major reprieve to the occupants of 3,000 flats, besides 170 villas and houses, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today restrained Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) and other respondents from disconnecting the electricity supply to Omaxe New Chandigarh Developers Pvt. Ltd.The direction by Justice Girish Agnihotri of the High Court came after the petitioner’s counsel, Manu K Bhandari, among other things, contended that disconnection would cause great hardship to the owners/occupiers.Appearing before the Bench, Bhandari submitted that the respondents were not authorised to initiate action against the petitioner/franchisee under the provisions of the Electricity Act, 2003, in a case of unauthorised use of electricity as was being alleged in the present case.Referring to a provisional assessment order passed in January last year, Bhandari contended that it was alleged that the respondent noticed unauthorised load during inspection. The petitioner was then directed to deposit Rs2,25,32,521 on account of alleged unauthorised use of electricity. Bhandari contended that it was not a case of electricity theft even as per the allegations.The only allegation was that certain consumers were allegedly using more load than what was sanctioned to the premises occupied by them. He further clarified that the actual use of electricity charges had been paid by the consumers as well as by the developer-petitioner.He also submitted that the actual bill of approximately Rs50,00,000 for electricity consumption for January 2020 was also paid by the developer. As such, there were no dues. He added that the petitioner had a good prima facie case against the assessment order dated February 24, 2020, and had also filed an appeal. But it was summarily rejected and the issues raised by the petitioner were not appropriately dealt with. The counsel also submitted that in order to show his bonafides, 50 per cent of the amount stood paid by the petitioner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-court-restrains-pspcl-from-snapping-supply-to-omaxe-society-214531
19-02-2021||Sandeep Rana||UT Admn yet to take call on MC resolution on water rate revision||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 18While there is a huge hue and cry among residents against water tariff, which was raised up to three-fold in the city, the UT Administration is still sitting over the rate revision resolution passed by the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation.Rs225 cr MC’s annual expenditure on water supplyRs90 cr Annual water charges collection before tariff hikeRs60 cr Additional revenue expected after hikeHaving faced criticism after the water tariff hike notification in September, the BJP-ruled corporation had brought an agenda in the House to slash the rates. The agenda was approved by the House on October 29. It was then sent to the Administration for the final approval.While the residents have been paying the increased rates since September, the authorities have failed to decide the matter till now.Arun Kumar Gupta, UT Home Secretary-cum-Secretary, Local Government, said, “We had received the MC resolution, but no decision has been taken in this regard so far.”Hitesh Puri of Chandigarh Residents’ Association Welfare Federation, said, “There is a huge resentment among residents over the increase in the water rates and the provision of sewerage cess, which is 30 per cent of the total bill. The MC claims they did not increase rates much in the lower slab. However, a very few consumers fall in that bracket. I think over 75 per cent people fall in the upper slabs and they are hugely affected.”“For example, my own water bill has now increased to whopping Rs1,900 from Rs900-Rs1000 earlier. It is the duty of the government to provide water at subsidised rates,” he said.RK Garg, the president of a city-based senior citizens’ association, said, “We are now paying two to three times more for water. The MC has failed to control water leakage and putting the burden of the loss on us. Sewerage cess, which used to be fixed earlier, is now 30 per cent of the total bill. It is a big blow.”City Congress chief Subhash Chawla said, “Nowhere in the country 30 per cent sewerage is charged. It is one or two per cent. The Administration is not under the control of the ruling BJP and the latter is only doing drama by passing anotherrate revision resolution.”Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma said, “We have got various representations regarding water bills. We will bring an agenda to discuss the revision issue in the coming House meeting and will then get approval from the Administration in March.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ut-admn-yet-to-take-call-on-mc-resolution-on-water-rate-revision-214545
19-02-2021||Chandigarh||829 varieties to be on display at Rose Fest||A total of 829 varieties of rose will be displayed during the Rose Festival to be organised at Rose Garden from February 26-28.It will be a symbolic fest this time. No cultural or entertainment event will be organised due to Covid-19, as decided by the MC House last month. However, roses will be on display.Rose varieties like ‘Elizabeth’ and ‘Iceberg’ will be among the flowers to be showcased at the event. These flowers bloom between January and March. This time, no new variety has been added. People may display their own flowers in pots at the garden. Though there will be no competition, participation certificates will be given away.The MC will honour frontline warriors, resident welfare associations and social organisations, which worked during the pandemic, on February 28, the closing day of the festival. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/829-varieties-to-be-on-display-at-rose-fest-214546
19-02-2021||Chandigarh||Two commit suicide in Chandigarh||Two suicides were reported from the city today.The police said a 26-year-old truck driver, Amar Singh, reportedly committed suicide by hanging himself in his truck parked at the Transport Area in Sector 26. Cops reached the spot on getting information about the incident and shifted the body to the mortuary at the GMSH, Sector 16.A police official said there were no injury marks on the victim’s body.In another incident, a Sector 29 resident, identified as Amit, reportedly committed suicide by hanging. A PCR rushedthe victim to the GMCH-32where doctors declared him brought dead. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-commit-suicide-in-chandigarh-214547
19-02-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh police observe road safety month||The UT traffic police issued as many as 14,995 traffic challans for various offences during a road safety month, which concluded yesterday.With the theme, ‘Sadak Suraksha Jeevan Raksha’, the traffic police held various road safety awareness programmes during the month. A closing ceremony was held in Sector 25 yesterday, where DIG Ombir Singh was the chief guest.SSP (Traffic) Manisha Choudhary was present. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-police-observe-road-safety-month-214548
19-02-2021||Chandigarh||Career counselling workshop||Fresh batch for UGC (NET) coachingChandigarh: The Centre for IAS and other Competitive Examinations, Panjab University, is starting a fresh batch for coaching of UGC (NET) Examination (Paper-I) 2021, said Prof Sonal Chawla, Honorary Director. The classes for UGC (NET) Paper-1 will commence from March 8 for a period of over a month. The admission for this batch will be on a first-come-first-serve basis. Students who are preparing for UGC (NET) examination to be held in May 2021 are eligible to join this course. The application forms are available at www.iasc.puchd.ac.in. TNSPU VC visits Administrative BlockChandigarh: Prof Raj Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, Panjab University, visited various departments of the Administrative Block. He instructed all for clearing their tables on a day-to-day basis to avoid pendency of work. He urged all to maintain cleanliness and strictly follow Covid protocols by maintaining social distancing and wearing masks. The VC also visited labs of the University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences and advised research scholars to follow SOPs related to Covid and maintain cleanliness in their working area of labs. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/career-counselling-workshop-214549
19-02-2021||Chandigarh||Cars damaged, papers stolen||Fencing c’ship on February 21Panchkula: The District Fencing Association, Panchkula, will organise district championship on February 21 at New India Senior Secondary School, Sector 15. The championship will be conducted in various age groups - U-12, U-14, U-20 and senior. Interested fencers are advised to register before participating in the championship. TNSAditya, Vanya bag tennis titlesChandigarh: Top seed Aditya Chauhan and second seed Vanya Arora won the CLTA-AITA Championship Series (CS-3) Tennis Tournament that concluded on Thursday. In the boys’ U-16 title clash, top seed Haryana’s Chauhan defeated third seed Punjab’s Ekamjeet Singh Cheema in straight sets 6-3, 6-0. Meanwhile, third seed Vanya Arora from Haryana won the girls’ U-16 title by defeating her state-mate and eighth seeded Rubani Kaur Sidhu 6-1, 6-2. Dr Reet Mahinder Sindh, member, Executive Committee, and Romen Singh, chief coach, CLTA, distributed prizes among the winners. TNSRoller skating meet from Feb 26Chandigarh: The Chandigarh Roller Skating Association will organise State Roller Skating Championship at the Sector 10 Skating Rink Coaching Centre from February 26 to 28. Those interested can confirm their entries at the tournament venue from February 22 to 23 between 3:30 pm and 5:30 pm. TNSGymnastics c’ship from February 26Chandigarh: The Chandigarh Gymnastics Association will organise the 46th Chandigarh Junior and Sub-Junior State Artistic and Rhythmic Championship from February 26 to 28 at the Sector 7 Sports Complex. Interested gymnasts can confirm their entries with the organisers before February 24. The championship will be conducted in different age groups, including U-8 years (2013 cut-off), U-10 (2011 cut-off), U-12 (2009 cut-off), U-14 (2007 cut-off), U-15 (2006 cut-off) and U-17 (2004 cut-off). TNS45,800 take online exams on Day 4Chandigarh: Around 45,800 students of undergraduate/ postgraduate/other professional courses, including USOL/private candidates, appeared for online examinations on Day 4, confirmed Dr Jagat Bhushan, Controller of Examination, Panjab University. He said a total of 77 examinations were smoothly conducted on Thursday. TNSINSO raises students’ issuesChandigarh: Panjab University’s INSO unit raised various issues faced by LLM students of the UILS Department. A memorandum was also submitted to the DUI. President Puneet Seera Masitan said the online portal for fee submission of LLM (two-year) is not updated due to which students are unable to submit examination forms. INSO submitted a memorandum and requested the PU authorities to update the online portal. TNSGoods stolen from museumChandigarh: Electrical goods were allegedly stolen from 'Museum of Trees' in Dariya village. According to the police, complainant DS Jaspal, a retired IAS officer, reported that electrical fittings, including wires, halogen lights, pipes, sockets and other miscellaneous items, were stolen from the site on February 17. A case has been registered at the Industrial Area police station. TNSMobile phone snatchedChandigarh: Four unknown persons snatched a mobile phone from a resident in Ram Darbar. Complainant Pushkar Singh, a resident of Phase-II, Ram Darbar, reported that some unknown miscreants snatched his mobile phone from near a local bus stand on February 15. A case was registered at the Sector 31 police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cars-damaged-papers-stolen-214550
19-02-2021||Mohali||Congress wins Mohali MC too; BJP, SAD fail to open account||The ruling Congress in Punjab won the Mohali municipal corporation polls on Thursday by registering victory in 37 of the 50 wards.After the final counting of votes, the Congress won 37 wards, while independents bagged the remaining 13, officials said.With this, the ruling party registered victory in seven municipal corporations and emerged as the leading party in the Moga municipal corporation, where no party got a clear majority.Punjab minister Balbir Singh Sidhu’s brother Amarjeet Singh Sidhu won from ward number 10 of the Mohali municipal corporation.The counting of votes for the Mohali municipal corporation was taken up on Thursday as repolling was conducted at two polling booths on Wednesday.The Punjab State Election Commission had ordered repolling at the two booths after receiving reports of irregularities during polling on February 14.The Congress swept the urban body polls in Punjab on Wednesday, winning six municipal corporations, emerging as the largest party in the Moga municipal corporation and bagging most of the 109 municipal councils and nagar panchayats. —with PTIAlso read: Punjab civic body mandate for liberal policies: AmarinderHighlights||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-wins-mohali-mc-too-bjp-sad-fail-to-open-account-214192
