20-02-2021||Chandigarh||Mazdoor Adhikaar Sangathan president brought to Chandigarh for medical month after his arrest||The president of Mazdoor Adhikaar Sangathan, Shiv Kumar, 24, was brought by Haryana Police for his medical examination ordered by the Punjab and Haryana High Court at GMCH-32 here on Saturday .Though his medical reports will be out on Monday, said lawyers who accompanied Shiv and the police, sources from hospital sighted concerns over the one-month delay in his medical.Shiv was arrested by the Haryana Police on January 16 from Kundli border, say his aides, for mobilising the workers of Kundli Industrial area.His father Ranbir Kumar and two friends Jasminder Tinku and Ankit waited at the park facing hospital’s Emergency building to catch a glimpse of Shiv.Teary-eyed, his father broke down looking at his son’s limping gait.“Kya gareebo ka bhalaai, adkikaar kay liye ladna itna bada jurm hai? (Is it a crime to fight for the rights of poor?),” he mumbles to himself.He says, “I came here at 9 am to look at my son. I haven’t seen him since January 16 and even the police didn’t inform us about his arrest.”Ankit, Shiv’s friend, added, “We got to know of Shiv’s arrest on January 31. On January 24, he was presented in court. None of us were told of his whereabouts. For eight days, he was illegally taken in remand by the police, where he was brutally beaten.”He said, “He was not even given warm clothes or chappals in jail. In fact, he got his specs just a day ago.”One of the medical staff was quick to notice the discolouration and swelling on Shiv’s feet.On the condition of anonymity, the staffer said, “His nails are blue. His feet are swollen, despite the one-month delay. Do you expect the higher-ups in this government facility to give a statement against the government?”Jasminder shared, “Madam, the situation at Kundli Industrial area is bad. The area’s industrialist association has formed a ‘quick response team’ which comprises paid goons to silence daily-wagers asking for their salaries.”He added, “Shiv was mobilising these daily wagers to fight for their salaries, which have been withheld by these big companies for months now. This seems to be his fault.”Soon after the medical, Shiv was taken back to the Sonepat District Jail. His father doesn’t know when he will see his son next. Shiv didn’t utter a word. The police held his hand, escorted him at all times in GMCH-32’s E-Block.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mazdoor-adhikaar-sangathan-president-brought-to-chandigarh-for-medical-month-after-his-arrest-215250
20-02-2021||Chandigarh||Implementation of farm laws will increase food prices: Chaduni||Haryana BKU chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni on Saturday said food prices will increase like that of fuel if the Centre’s farm laws are implemented in the country.Describing the farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s laws as a “dharma yudh”, the Haryana Bharatiya Kisan Union chief exhorted all sections of society to be part of the movement. Chaduni was among several farmer leaders who addressed the first “kisan mahapanchayat” held here. The event was organised by the Naujwan Kisan Ekta. “We call it (agitation) ‘dharma yudh’. If agri-business laws are implemented, then the country’s foodgrain will go into the godowns of a few people. Then the food prices will go up the way petrol prices are rising now,” said Chaduni, seeking to assert the “adverse” impact of the legislations. “So, this is not a fight of farmers’ alone and we appeal to all sections of society that they should join this agitation. It is a movement to save the country. It is a ‘dharma yudh’,” said Chaduni.Chaduni said if the new farm laws were implemented, farmers will no longer remain owners of their land. The next thing which will be seen is companies doing farming on huge chunk of land, he stated.“If that happens, how will 65 per cent population which is dependent on agriculture survive? So, the question is of our survival, our future. If we lose this battle, then no one can save us from economic slavery,” he asserted.He accused the Centre of doling out financial relief to corporates and claimed the government could not spare money for relief to farmers in the shape of debt waiver.The Bharatiya Kisan Union leader said the question is not just of farmers but these three laws will impact cross section of people.Chaduni asked people not to vote for those who do not stand by farmers today. He asked farmers to stay at the protest sites near the Delhi borders for some days on rotational basis. Addressing the gathering, Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan slammed the BJP-led Centre for bringing the three “black” laws which are “against” the interest of farmers.He alleged that these farm laws will “benefit” the corporate sector.He asked the government to repeal the laws rather than sticking to its stand of putting these on hold for some period.Farmers from Punjab and Haryana have been camping at the Delhi borders since late November, demanding the repeal of the farm laws and a legal guarantee on the minimum support price for crops. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/implementation-of-farm-laws-will-increase-food-prices-chaduni-215229
20-02-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh puts privatisation of Power Department  on hold||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 19Pleas of Electricity Department employees may have fallen on deaf ears, but their prayers have been answered. After the decision of the Centre to frame a uniform policy for the privatisation of the Electricity Department of all union territories, the UT Administration has put the department privatisation process on hold.The privatisation process of the Electricity Department has been put on hold till the Centre frames a new policy regarding the formation of a company and the process to be adopted for the transfer of shares. — Manoj Parida, UT Adviser“The privatisation process of the Electricity Department has been put on hold till the Centre frames a new policy regarding the formation of a company and the process to be adopted for the transfer of shares,” said UT Adviser Manoj Parida.On November 9, 2020, the UT Engineering Department had invited bids for the privatisation of the Electricity Department.On a petition filed by the UT Powermen Union, a Division Bench of the Punjab and Haryana High Court had on December 1, 2020, stayed the tendering process regarding the privatisation of the Electricity Department.The petitioner had contended that they were aggrieved by the decision to privatise the electricity wing by selling 100 per cent stake of the government in the absence of any provision under Section 131 of the Electricity Act, 2003.The Bench was also told that the process of privatisation of the wing could not be initiated at all, especially when it was running in profits. The sale of 100 per cent stake was unjust and illegal as the wing was revenue surplus for the past three years. It was economically efficient, having transmission and distribution losses less than the target of 15 per cent fixed by the Ministry of Power.However, On January 12, the Supreme Court had stayed the order of the High Court and on January 14, the UT Administration resumed the sale of tender for the privatisation process.As many as 20 intended bidders purchased the tenders, but only six companies — Sterlite Power, ReNew Wing Energy, NESCL (NTPC), Adani Transmission Ltd, Tata Power and Torrent Power — had submitted their bids for the privatisation of the department.However, the bids were yet to be opened to select the firm to take over the department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-puts-privatisation-of-power-department-on-hold-214968
20-02-2021||Amit Sharma||Now, driving licence to be suspended for speeding on 2nd offence||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 19The UT traffic police will now suspend the driving licence (DL) for overspeeding on committing the offence for a second time. Till now, the DL was suspended on the first offence.Earlier, it was on first offenceThe traffic police started suspending DLs for overspeeding in 2016 on the directions of the Supreme Court Committee on Road Safety. The committee had issued a direction to suspend the DL on the first offence. However, as per the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act, 2019, the DL for the offence is to be suspended on the second violation.The police have now made an amendment to the standard operating procedure for e-challan as per which the DL for overspeeding will be suspended on “second or subsequent speeding”. The order regarding this was issued by UT DIG Omvir Singh today.The traffic police issue overspeeding challans through the Automatic Number Plate Recognition (ANPR) system, also called speed guns, which were introduced in May last year.Mounted on tripods, these are equipped with cameras and sensors to measure the speed of the approaching vehicle and click a picture of the vehicle driven over the speed limit.The police have been installing these speed guns on different roads and offenders are sent an SMS and the TVIS (traffic violation information slip) challans are sent on their postal address.In 2019, 8,813 challans were issued for overspeeding, while in 2020, 30,710 challans were issued for the offence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-driving-licence-to-be-suspended-for-speeding-on-2nd-offence-214969
20-02-2021||---||Apply for high-security plates till March-end||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 19The Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA) has extended the process of issuance and affixation of high-security registration plates (HSRPs) and third-registration mark (colour-coded sticker) on the vehicle series ‘CH01BK’ and ‘CH01BL’ by a month.The RLA started the process of the installation of HSRPs and the third-registration mark on the vehicles today. Owners of the series can apply for the affixation till March 31 by following the due procedure available on the official website, chdtransport.gov.in, at any of the three locations — RLA Office, Sector 17, SDM (South), Sports Complex, Sector 42, and SDM (East), CTU Workshop, Industrial Area, Phase I, Chandigarh.The registered owners of vehicles were to apply for the affixation of the HSRP and third-registration mark within February.In case of any query regarding the HSRP, applicant/owner of vehicles can contact 0172-2700341.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/apply-for-high-security-plates-till-march-end-214970
20-02-2021||Amarjot Kaur||Students to mothers — A diverse mix of protesters at Chandigarh's Matka Chowk||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 19The number of protesters at Matka Chowk continues to grow, amassing popularity and frequent visits by Punjabi singers, political leaders and farmer union leaders.No formal authority, leader or organisation spearheading the Matka Chowk protest is a testimony to a people’s movement, where several have joined in on their own will to support the farmers’ call for revoking the three agriculture laws.Not scared, say girls at Matka chowkGirls, who have been protesting at Matka Chowk, said crass comments from passersby were an irritant. Danica Sharma and Jarvia Kler, both 18, said they had been protesting since January. “We come here with our mothers. Usually, when the crowds start thinning out, commuters threaten us and pass comments. But we are not scared. We just ignore them. If this is happening to us here, we can imagine what Nodeep Kaur and Disha Ravi might be going through,” they said.The Tribune spoke with students, kids, women and senior citizens to know the construct of the protest, which gathered cheers from BKU leader Balbir Singh Rajewal, singer Jas Bajwa and Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh.Rajwinder Kaur, aka Raj Gill, 38, a resident of Khuda Ali Sher, is one of the first few people to have been protesting at the chowk. “My daughter and I have been coming here since December 9,” she says. “At that time, we were the only females here. Back then, we didn’t even have flags or posters. We didn’t have any idea of how to protest, so I took a dupatta, penned slogans on it and stood at the chowk. As days passed, more people joined in,” she says.At present, the Matka Chowk protesters have connected with each other through many WhatsApp groups.Sukhpal Singh, a retired Central Government employee, says he joined the protesters at Matka Chowk to provide them with milk. “I wasn’t invited here or anything,” he says. “In January, we saw 30-odd youngsters here and decided to do a milk ‘seva’. I am a member of the Farmers’ Welfare Society of Punjab. It’s a registered society and was started by my friends. We have been helping people at the Singhu border by providing them with portable toilets and a projector,” he adds. Akashdeep Sindhu, 23, who hails from Karnal and is a national athelete, would go to a gym in Sector 8. Matka Chowk is on his way to the gym. He’s doing an MBA from the PTU, Khanna, and is a former student of Khalsa College in Chandigarh. He says: “I would go to the gym daily and would see people gathered here. I’m from Haryana and my parents have been going to Delhi regularly. My training is here and I can’t go to Delhi. I was consumed by guilt. So, I stand here and support our farmers.”Akashdeep says: “As a good Indian citizen, I don’t think your duties end at voting. It’s more important to keep a tab on government’s policies too. I have been coming since January 16. Us education ka koi fayada nai jo society kaam na aaye (what’s the use of education that doesn’t help society).”Divya Suhag, 28, is preparing for an MBA in the US. “I was preparing for UPSC and have studied BJP’s economic policies. I’m here because I know the laws are flawed. I’ve been here for a month now with my parents. I just saw people here and joined them. I’m not a part of any of their WhatsApp group or anything as such,” she says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/students-to-mothers-%E2%80%94-a-diverse-mix-of-protesters-at-chandigarhs-matka-chowk-214971
20-02-2021||Chandigarh||Snatcher targets lawyer, nailed||A snatcher, who was escaping after allegedly snatching a mobile phone from a lawyer, was nabbed on the spot while the other managed to flee after leaving the motorcycle last evening.Complainant Tarsem, a resident of Sector 30, who is a lawyer, was going towards the Burail bus stop from the Sector 45/46 light point when the miscreants arrived from the rear side on a motorcycle.The suspect riding pillion snatched the complainant’s mobile phone. However, while escaping, the rider lost control over the motorcycle following which both of them fell on the road. The complainant managed to nab the one riding pillion while the other managed to escape, leaving the motorcycle behind. The police were informed and the suspect, Vishal, a resident of Burail village, was arrested. A case was registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/snatcher-targets-lawyer-nailed-214973
20-02-2021||Chandigarh||Youth dies, 2 cousins injured in car crash||A 19-year-old youth was killed while his two cousins were injured after the Maruti Zen car they were travelling in rammed into the Hallo Majra roundabout on the intervening night of February 18 and 19. The trio was coming towards Tribune Chowk after attending a party at Mauli Jagran.The police said Raja was driving the car while his cousin Rajesh (19) was sitting next to the driver’s seat and another cousin, also named Rajesh, was sitting on the rear seat. Residents of Mauli Jagran, they attended a function there and then decided to go towards Sector 17. The police suspect the victims were in an inebriated condition.The car went out of control and rammed into the roundabout. Passersby informed the police. PCR vehicles rushed to the spot. The police had to break open the doors to pull the victims out of the car. They were rushed to the GMCH, where Rajesh, who was sitting next to the driver’s seat, was declared brought dead. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-dies-2-cousins-injured-in-car-crash-214974
20-02-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh witnesses  19 fresh cases||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-witnesses-19-fresh-cases-214975
20-02-2021||Mohali||30 new cases, no death in Mohali||No new death was reported. Among the fresh cases, 24 were reported from Mohali (urban), one each from Dera Bassi and Kharar, and four from Dhakoli.The district has so far seen 19,896 cases, while 19,136 patients have been cured. There are now 379 active cases. As many as 381 have succumbed to the virus. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/30-new-cases-no-death-in-mohali-214976
20-02-2021||Panchkula||15 new cases  in Panchkula||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/15-new-cases-in-panchkula-214977
20-02-2021||---||40 electric buses to hit Chandigarh roads in September||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 19To help improve the quality of air, the UT will soon get a fleet of 40 non-polluting electric buses. The UT Transport Department has tied up with a private firm to operate electric buses in the city from September this year.Three companies had submitted bids to run 40 electric buses in the city. However, the lowest bidder, Ashok Leyland, was awarded the contract to run the environment-friendly buses for a period of 10 years on the basis of km scheme.As per the agreement, all maintenance expenditure, bus charging stations, suspension, HVAC system and major and minor repair of the buses during the period of the contract would be the responsibility of the successful bidder. The department will pay Rs60 per km to the company.Transport director Uma Shankar Gupta said the work had been allotted to the company and the buses were expected to hit the road in September this year.In September last year, the Centre had sanctioned 80 electric buses for the UT under Phase-II of the Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of (Hybrid &) Electric Vehicles in India (FAME India) Scheme.After getting approval from the Centre, the UT Administration started the process for the procurement of buses. Under the scheme, the Centre will provide Rs50-lakh subsidy for each bus to the seller.The procurement of the buses will give a major boost to the plan of the UT Administration to replace its entire fleet of ordinary buses of the Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) with electric buses. At present, the CTU has 514 buses — 361 buses run on local or suburban routes and 153 buses run on inter-state routes.In 2016, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore had approved the proposal of the UT Transport Department to purchase 20 electric buses to fight air pollution. As the cost of purchasing the buses was Rs32 crore, the UT Administration had sought financial support from the Union Ministry of Heavy Industries, but the ministry had refused to fund the project.In 2017, when the Union Ministry of Heavy Industries had refused to finance 40 electric buses, the UT Administration had decided to procure these buses on the basis of revenue sharing. The Administration had floated tenders for the purchase of 40 electric buses in January 2019, but it had to suspend it as the revenue had been hit hard due to the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/40-electric-buses-to-hit-chandigarh-roads-in-september-214978
20-02-2021||---||Stiff contest for men’s national TT crown||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, February 19After four days of women’s action, the men paddlers step into the arena during the UTT 82nd National Table Tennis Championships.We will use DHS DJ 40+ balls during the tournament. It is the same ball which was used during the World Singles and Asian Qualification event in Doha and the Tokyo Olympics. — N Ganeshan, Competition ManagerThe 200 entrants believe the group qualification events to be held at the Tau Devi Lal Indoor Stadium tomorrow will mark a fresh beginning with smiles back on their faces.The focus, however, will be on top-ranked Indian and nine-time champion A Sharath Kamal. But G Sathiyan, ranked 37, will be one of the strong contenders for the title. However, both can expect more than a handful of challenges from defending champion Harmeet Desai.The advantages Sathiyan and Harmeet over Sharath is that both got away from India at the first opportunity when the doors of some European countries opened after Covid-19 had slackened its grip a bit. Both Sathiyan and Harmeet have had serious match-practice since, having played the leagues. Sathiyan went to Japan for another set of league matches before returning to Poland.They are back in India and will challenge each other, besides Sharath, who looks to complete a perfect 10. Yet, one cannot rule out the possibility of young guns, especially Manav Thakkar, springing a surprise. The prize purse is of Rs 2.50 lakh.Sharath and Sathiyan have been seeded No. 1 and 2 due to their world rankings. Sathiyan, who skipped all domestic tournaments in 2019, will look to adjusting to the conditions. But Sharath, who has attended a 42-day national camp at Sonepat, knows the conditions better. He is also in good shape despite being inactive.The other14 seeds will be picked during the open draw before Stage 2 matches begin. The remaining players, divided into 60 groups, will have three or four players each.After the group qualification, the main draw will be filled with 128 slots, including 52 byes. However, the top 16 and a few lucky ones from among the group qualifiers will reap the benefit of first-round byes.“We will use DHS DJ 40+ balls during the tournament. It is the same ball which was used during the World Singles and Asian Qualification event in Doha and the Tokyo Olympics,” said Competition Manager N Ganeshan.The championships offer the best chance to players to reboot themselves for the WTT Contenders (March 3-6) and Star Contenders (March 8-13) to be held at Doha. Both are major prize money events. The World Singles (March 14-17) and Asian Olympics Qualification (March 18-20), both the gateway to Tokyo Olympics, will follow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/stiff-contest-for-mens-national-tt-crown-214979
20-02-2021||Chandigarh||Delinked from UGC pay scales, teachers protest||As part of the protest plan of the Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisation (PFUCTO) and the Punjab and Chandigarh College Teachers’ Association (PCCTU), teachers of the local colleges staged dharnas on their respective campuses today.The teachers in large numbers protested the Punjab Government’s decision to delink from the UGC pay scales.The Chandigarh president of PCCTU, Dr Madhu Sharma, said: “This will affect the status of higher education in Chandigarh and Punjab.”“It is pertinent to note that in order to stay on the national higher education map, we need to follow the UGC regulations and pay scales in toto,” said teachers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/delinked-from-ugc-pay-scales-teachers-protest-214980
20-02-2021||---||Minister opens inter-CPSU meet||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 19The 25th Men and Women Inter-CPSU Tournament organised by the Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) was inaugurated virtually by Minister of State for Power and New and Renewable Energy RK Singh today.As many as 10 teams from various central power sector undertakings across the country areparticipating in the event that is being conducted under the aegis of the Central Power Sports Control Board.Lauding the efforts of the BBMB for conducting the tournament during the pandemic, the minister stressed that sports is very important for mental and physical growth and can also drastically improve the teamwork in organisations. He also announced an increase in the award money for prize winners and enhancement of kit allowance.BBMB chairman Sanjay Srivastava said the board would organise sports events under the aegis of the Power Control Board for the next two years and would take further steps to enhance the importance of sports amongst all CPSU employees.All team members also participated in a tree plantation drive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/minister-opens-inter-cpsu-meet-214981
20-02-2021||---||Anti-encroachment drive in Panchkula till 9 pm||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, February 19The anti-encroachment drive will now be carried out in the city till 9 pm to deal with violators during the evening hours. The anti-encroachment team will work between 1 pm and 9 pm. Earlier, the team had 9 am to 5 pm work schedule.The decision was taken in the meeting of the Panchkula Sanitation and Maintenance Committee held under the chairmanship of Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta at the Vidhan Sabha Secretariat in Chandigarh.Gupta, while giving instructions to the Municipal Corporation and HSVP officials, said: “Even though a comprehensive plan to address the issue was prepared in the last meeting, the problem of encroachment has still not been resolved.”For the same, the MC Commissioner will soon issue an order. Now, all sector markets and villages of Panchkula will have information boards on which mobile numbers of the officials concerned will be mentioned. A blueprint of the same was prepared in the meeting.These numbers will be permanent so that even if the officers are transferred, people will be able to contact the department.Gupta said it was his priority to ensure a grievance redressal system and made it clear that negligence in this regard would not be tolerated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/anti-encroachment-drive-in-panchkula-till-9-pm-214982
20-02-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||EPFO ex-officer held guilty in bribery case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 19Special Judge of CBI court Sushil Kumar Garg has held a former enforcement officer of the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO), Sector 17, Manmohan Gilhotra, guilty in a six-year- old bribery case.The court will pronounce the quantum of the sentence on February 22. The court has held the former EPFO officer guilty under section 7 and 13 (1) (d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act. He has been taken into custody.Gilhotra was arrested for taking a bribe of Rs 15,000 from a private company official at Baltana, Zirakpur, in 2015.The CBI acted on a complaint received from the chief administrative officer of the private company, who alleged in his complaint that he was being threatened by the officer with raids at his office. It was alleged in the complaint that the accused telephonically communicated to him to bring certain PF-related documents of his company on the pretext of carrying out an inspection. The company was issued a show-cause notice by the PF Department for not depositing the amount. The accused allegedly called the complainant to discuss the issue.The complainant alleged that when he met the accused he allegedly demanded Rs 15,000 in lieu of settling the matter. The complainant works at Cloudberry Technologies Pvt Ltd, Sector 7, Madhya Marg, Chandigarh.Gilhotra was arrested red-handed and the bribe amount of Rs 15,000 was recovered from his pocket on the main road between Baltana and Zirakpur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/epfo-ex-officer-held-guilty-in-bribery-case-214983
20-02-2021||---||Chandigarh lad Karandeep finishes tied 9th in golf||Tribune News ServiceAhmedabad, February 19Bengaluru’s Chikkarangappa took centre stage today as he shot a solid final round score of four-under-68 to earn a remarkable come-from-behind win at the Gujarat Open Golf Championship at the Kalhaar Blues & Greens Golf Club in Ahmedabad. Chandigarh golfer Karandeep Kochhar finished tied ninth at one-under-287 this week.The 27-year-old Chikka ended the week at the Rs 30-lakh event with a winning score of nine-under-279 to emerge triumphant by three shots and register his 13th win on the PGTI. It was his 14th career title.Kolkata’s Viraj Madappa fired the last day’s best score of seven-under-65 to finish runner-up at six-under-282.Om Prakash Chouhan, the leader for the first three days who was ahead by a comfortable five-shot margin at the start of the final round, carded a disastrous six-over-78 which saw him drop to tied third in the final placings at five-under-283.Delhi’s Sachin Baisoya (68) and Kolkata’s SSP Chawrasia (71) also took a share of third place along with Chouhan. Chawrasia was the only player with four sub-par rounds this week.Chikkarangappa (69-72-70-68), who began the day six shots off the lead in third place, had a profitable front-nine as he scored birdies on the first, fourth and seventh, thanks to his accurate approach shots and consistent putting which included a 15-foot conversion on the first.The tournament witnessed a dramatic turn when Chouhan, who had earlier birdied the fourth, found the water hazard twice with his tee shot on the par-3 seventh hole which has an island green. Chouhan thus dropped a quadruple-bogey (7) there as his lead came down to just one shot.The setback at a crucial time on the seventh took a toll on Chouhan’s game as he struggled on the greens thereafter missing short putts on the 10th, 11th and 17th for bogeys on all three holes that put him out of the contest.Meanwhile, Chikka, who was three-under at the turn, seized the advantage as he added three more birdies on the back-nine at the cost of two bogeys to ease to victory. He sank a 15-footer for birdie on the 13th, an important 12-footer for bogey on the 14th and landed his approach within a few inches of the pin for birdie on the 17th.With his winning purse of Rs 4,84,950, Chikka continued to be second on the PGTI Order of Merit for the 2020-21 season with total earnings of Rs 28,29,930.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-lad-karandeep-finishes-tied-9th-in-golf-214984
20-02-2021||---||Chandigarh grants Rs 20,000 aid each to 12 institutions||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 19UT Adviser Manoj Parida today granted an aid of Rs20,000 each to various voluntary organisations and institutions for providing welfare services in the UT.Under the grant-in-aid scheme of the Department of Social Welfare Women and Child Development, UT, Rs20,000 is being provided to eligible registered voluntary and social welfare institutions that render welfare services to men, women, children, youth, physically and mentally handicapped persons, delinquents, aged and infirm.During the current financial year 2020-21, the UT Administration has approved release of grant-in-aid to 12 voluntary organisations - Survival of Young and Adolescent Foundation, Indian National Portage Association (INPA), Sadhna Society for the Mentally Handicapped, People for Human Rights Council, Holiday Home Society, National Association for the Blind, Acharyakul Chandigarh, Jan Jagriti Society, Capital Christian Welfare Association, Servants of the People Society, Invisible Hands Foundations and the Citizen Welfare Association - for providing welfare services under the scheme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-grants-rs-20-000-aid-each-to-12-institutions-214986
20-02-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Men’s football tourney in March first week||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 19After organising the Senior State Meet for Women in 2019, the Chandigarh Football Association (CFA) has now decided to conduct the same championship for men in the first week of March. However, what surprised the football fraternity is the whopping entry fee of Rs2,500 (per team), which is mandatory to participate in the championship.The circularAs per the circular, “The association will organise Chandigarh Senior Football Men’s Championship in the first week of March 2021 and all clubs/units affiliated can participate in it. All clubs, teams and players will have to be registered with the CFA. A list of 20 players, along with the manager and the coach, with all documents, including date of birth and Aadhaar card, with entry fee of Rs2,500 should be submitted before March 3.”Perhaps, it’s for the first time in the history of this championship that the association is charging this much amount. In Chandigarh, local affiliated sports associations get the stadiums free of cost for conducting affiliated tournaments. The CFA, which recently focused on conducting only baby football championship, is long due for conducting state championships of all age groups.As per the circular, “the association will organise Chandigarh Senior Football Men’s Championship in the first week of March 2021 and all clubs/units affiliated can participate in it. All clubs, teams and players will have to be registered with the CFA. A list of 20 players, along with the manager and the coach, with all documents, including date of birth and Aadhaar card, with entry fee of Rs2,500 should be submitted before March 3.”The president and the general secretary of the Chandigarh Football Association were unavailable to comment on the issue. “This is for the first time that the association has kept such amount for conducting a championship. I wonder if the matches would be league or knock out and the association would provide a decent diet to the players after the match. The UT Administration does not charge a single penny from state associations for conducting affiliated championships. In such scenario, there should be minimum entry fee so that more and more teams can participate,” said a coach.Bhupinder is CFA vice-presidentChandigarh: The Chandigarh Football Association (CFA) has appointed Bhupinder Singh as new vice-president of the association with immediate effect. Bhupinder, a former Panjab University Campus Students’ Council president, is an advocate by profession. The letter of appointment was signed by the CFA general secretary. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mens-football-tourney-in-march-first-week-214987
20-02-2021||Naina Mishra||70% health staff likely to miss jab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 19Around 70 per cent healthcare workers (HCWs) in the city are likely to miss Covid-19 vaccination as the deadline for scheduling inoculation for them will be over tomorrow. However, a mop-up round for the vaccination drive will be held till February 25.Chance for Left-out in mop-up round: DHS}Healthcare workers will be given a quick second chance in a mop-up round from February 21 to 25. All those who have missed vaccination due to some reason can get themselves vaccinated in the mop-up round. — Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, UTAgainst the target of 29,071 HCWs, the UT Health Department has been able to inoculate 8,636 beneficiaries so far. The turnout has just reached 30 per cent of the total target.Dr Jasbinder Kaur, Director, Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, said, “It has been observed in a doubt-clearing session that those female HCWs who are thinking of starting a family are hesitant towards vaccination. Some minor adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) also scared health workers.”Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, UT, said HCWs would be given a quick second chance in the mop-up round from February 21 to 25. “All those who have missed vaccination due to some reason can get themselves vaccinated in the mop-up round,” she added.The UT has been instructed to schedule all HCWs, who have registered on the Co-Win app, for vaccination at least once by February 20 and through a mop-up round for those left out by February 25. Similarly, all registered frontline workers are to be scheduled for vaccination at least once by March 1 and through a mop-up round for those left out by March 6.As many as 15 session sites have been set up at various locations in the city where targeted beneficiaries can avail themselves of the facility of vaccination.The UT Health Department today officially stated that vaccine hesitancy among HCWs and frontline workers had emerged to be the main reason for the slow turnout for vaccination.For a wider outreach of the vaccination, Chandigarh has taken various steps like counselling sessions, advertisements, talks on FM radio, AIR, and nukkad nataks.The Health Department has been constantly appealing to the registered HCWs to avail themselves of the facility of free vaccination before the expiry of the deadline, February 20.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/70-health-staff-likely-to-miss-jab-214988
20-02-2021||Chandigarh||Awareness camp for Chandigarh cops||A two-day camp to spread awareness about Covid-19 vaccination among UT police personnel began at the Multipurpose Hall, Police Lines, in Sector 26 here today.Dr Sree Niwason from the WHO, along with staff of Police Hospital, sensitised the police personnel to vaccination. Around 200 cops attended the camp on Day 1.The camp was organised to address the emerging issue of vaccine hesitancy among people and to curb the misinformation and rumours about vaccination. It was emphasised that vaccination against Covid-19 will lead to people not transmitting the disease. Commenting on the safety and efficacy of the vaccines, it was said that several eminent doctors, along with other frontline workers, have taken the vaccine and returned to work without any side effects. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/awareness-camp-for-chandigarh-cops-214989
20-02-2021||---||18 months on, realtor’s wife, brother in Panchkula police net||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, February 19The Panchkula police today arrested city-based realtor Vinod Bagai’s wife Sunita Bagai and brother Virender Bagai in a fraud case registered against them on July 31, 2019.Fraud chargesVinod Bagai and his family were booked for fraudulently siphoning off investors’ money out of his housing project Samar Estates after which the investors approached the police.The district police had constituted a Special Investigation Team (SIT) in August 2019 to probe the case. Before the SIT could submit its report, the nation went into lockdown due to Covid-19, said the police.The police said the main suspect, Vinod Bagai, had not been arrested as he was medically unfit. Over two dozen FIRs had been registered against them for delayed flat possession and fraudulently transferring funds.It may be mentioned here that Vinod Bagai had contested as an Independent candidate from Panchkula in the 2014 parliamentary elections, which he had lost by a huge margin.Panchkula DCP Mohit Handa said they had arrested Samar Estates directors Sunita Bagai and Virender Bagai on the charge of fraud.Inspector Rajesh Kumar, SHO, Sector 14 police station, said the suspects would be produced in court tomorrow. They had fraudulently transferred investors’ money out of the Samar Estate accounts and did not deliver flats, the police said.The Haryana Real Estate Regulatory Authority, Panchkula, had also issued arrest warrants against Vinod Bagai, MD, Samar Estates, in February last year over non-compliance of orders passed by the court which mandated him to appear personally before the authority.On the complaint of an investor, the police had registered the first case against Vinod Bagai and others on July 31 in 2019. In the FIRs, which were subsequently registered, it was alleged that the company duped people of their money on the promise of delivering them the possession of three-BHK flats at Ess Vee Apartments in Sector 20. The complainants accused the company of fraud through misappropriation and diversion of funds collected from the allottees. At least 400 people have been awaiting the possession of flats in Ess Vee Apartments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/18-months-on-realtors-wife-brother-in-panchkula-police-net-214990
20-02-2021||---||Two forge Aadhaar card to get bail, held||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, February 19The police have arrested two fraudsters for producing fake Aadhaar card to seek bail in the court.The suspects have been identified as Sanjay, alias Sanju, a resident of Sonepat, and Anil, alias Kalu, a resident of Rohtak.The incident came to light when Karambir, a resident of Rohtak, received summons from a CBI court on September 18, 2019, asking him to appear before it.According to the police, a complaint was lodged at the Sector 5 police station by the CBI court in 2019 wherein it was stated that Karambir Singh alleged that some unknown persons forged his Aadhaar cards and got bail from the CBI court. Because of this, he received summons many times as the two accused jumped the bail.Karambir, while replying to the summons, had produced his Aadhaar card and pleaded before the court that his Aadhaar card must be tallied with the one produced in the court to attain bail. While the details like name, address and Aadhaar number were same on the forged documents, the photograph was of someone else.The police said a case under Sections 419, 420, 468 and 471 of the IPC had been registered against the two suspects at the Sector 5 police station.The police said the suspects were arrested and produced before the court, which remanded Sanjay to police custody for further investigation and Anil to judicial custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-forge-aadhaar-card-to-get-bail-held-214991
20-02-2021||Mohali||Veterinary officers  get training||Veterinary doctors of the Animal Husbandry Department can make a humongous contribution towards raising the economic status of farmers of Punjab. This was stated today by a member of the Punjab State Veterinary Council and former Joint Director of Animal Husbandry Department, Dr Gurinder Singh Walia, at the concluding function of a three-day training on “Veterinary Jurisprudence and Ethics” held at Livestock Complex in Sector 68 here.The training was organised for newly recruited 112 veterinary officers, which, besides Mohali, is being held in Patiala, Bathinda and Amritsar. At Mohali, 33 doctors from SAS Nagar, Patiala, Ludhiana, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala and Fatehgarh Sahib participated in the training programme. Dr Sunil Dutt Bhardwaj and Dr Harjinder Singh Deosi were the subject experts who imparted training to the doctors.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/veterinary-officers-get-training-214992
20-02-2021||Chandigarh||Bankers protest privatisation move||On a call of the United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU), the apex body of nine trade unions of bank employees and officers, a day-long dharna was held at Bank Square in Sector 17 here today.The demonstration was held against the privatisation of two public sector banks as announced by the Finance Minister in the Budget speech delivered on February 1.More than 100 members participated in the dharna and more than 500 members affliated to the UFBU participated in a demonstration held during the lunch break. The UFBU has planned a strike on March 15 and 16.While opposing the legislations to privatise the banks, Sanjay Sharma, the convenor of UFBU (Tricity), said privatisation of public sector banks would amount to a rollback of bank nationalisation, which was retrograde, ill-conceived and thoroughly inimical to the national interest. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bankers-protest-privatisation-move-214993
20-02-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||46.9% votes helped Congress get two-thirds majority in Mohali MC||Tribune News ServiceMohali, February 19The Congress was able to get two-thirds majority by grabbing more than 46.90 per cent votes in the Mohali Municipal Corporation. The results were declared yesterday.The Congress had managed to win 37 seats out of the total 50. In Wards 1 to 25, the Congress grabbed 23 seats while two seats were won by Independent candidates. From Ward No. 26 to 30, the Congress won 14 seats while 10 seats were won by the Azad Group candidates and one seat was bagged by an Independent. Azad group got 32% votes, SAD 9%, BJP 6%In the first 25 wards, the Congress received more than 50 per cent votes — 21,781 out of the total 42,247 polled. In the remaining 25 wards, it got 14,262 votes out of the 34,590 polled.Out of the total 76,830 votes polled in all 50 wards of the Municipal Corporation, the Azad Group candidates received 24,730 (32.18 per cent) votes while the SAD received 7,097 (9.23 per cent) votes. The BJP got 4,792 (6.23 per cent) votes. The division of votes was not only a loss to the SAD but also to the Azad Group, which managed to win in only 10 wards.The BJP, which had decided to contest the elections on its own and put up 46 candidates had fared poorly as only 11 of its candidates touched the three-digit mark. The maximum number — 751 — votes were polled in the favour of former councillor Sahibee Anand, who was defeated by his nearest rival Congress’s Paramjit Singh Happy by 293 votes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/46-9-votes-helped-congress-get-two-thirds-majority-in-mohali-mc-214995
20-02-2021||Chandigarh||Approve need-based changes on Delhi pattern: Federation||Seeking relief for thousands of allottees of the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB), the CHB Residents’ Welfare Federation has again requested UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore to evaluate and approve need-based changes on the Delhi pattern.Nirmal Datt, chairman of the federation, stated that the sector committees of the federation held an emergency meeting today. After deliberations, a fresh plea was sent to the Administrator to restrain the CHB from summarily shelving a practical proposal, but directing the Board afresh to evaluate the Delhi solution thoroughly by restarting the meetings of the existing need-based committee. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/approve-need-based-changes-on-delhi-pattern-federation-214996
20-02-2021||---||Coming up, halt-free toll deduction at Dappar plaza||Tribune News ServiceDera Bassi, February 19To enable automatic deduction of toll charges from vehicle owners’ FASTag accounts near the Dappar toll plaza, a pilot project with sensors and cameras installed on overhead poles is underway.Once operational, toll charges from vehicle owners with FASTag strips will be deducted automatically on the go. Vehicle owners will get a message on their registered mobile number for the amount of toll deducted from their FASTag account. It will save time, fuel, reduce traffic congestion and cut air and noise pollution.A private enterprise has been assigned the task of collecting data at the new site for six months and match it with the corresponding data at the old toll plaza to finalise details.The NHAI corporate relations officer, Deepak Arora, said, “It is a pilot project to see how automatic deduction from the FASTag account of a vehicle owner will be successful. It will likely take two to three years before the system gets operational.”“This electronic toll collection system uses radio-frequency identification (RFID) technology. Overhead sensors read the FASTag strip on the windshield of a vehicle and generate an automatic deduction of a definite amount without requiring the vehicle to stop at the plaza. Sensors have an upper limit of vehicle moving at 120 km per hour,” Arora added.“We will also work out the modalities for users, who commute on a short and not the entire stretch. Basically, it is a step forward in doing away with toll plazas in future. The number of installations and their location is yet to be finalised,” said Arora.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coming-up-halt-free-toll-deduction-at-dappar-plaza-214997
20-02-2021||---||Christian fraternity demands land for graveyard in Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, February 19Pastors and members of the Christian fraternity in the city have demanded land for a graveyard.The present graveyard was over 120 years old and had not enough room to bury the dead, they said. They had been raising this demand with the administration for over 25 years, but to no avail, pastors and members added.Pastor DV Stephen and pastor Rajeev said members of the Christian fraternity would resort to hunger strike if the administration failed to meet their demands.“The present graveyard on a land measuring 2,000 square yard in the city is 125 years old. Governments in the past have assured us that more land will be allotted for the purpose, but failed to do so. The situation is so bad at the cemetery that graves of other people are dug-up while digging new burial pits and human bones come out,” they added.“People who go to graveyard for last rites are forced to stand on graves due to lack of space. We were given assurance that land will be allotted at the Ghalori gate, but it has not been done,” they said.“If our demands are not met, we will resort to hunger strike to mark our protest,” they added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/christian-fraternity-demands-land-for-graveyard-in-patiala-214998
20-02-2021||---||Civic body starts online collection of water, sewerage charges in Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, February 19The Municipal Corporation (MC) has started online collection of the water and sewerage charges from residents in the city. The civic body is already running digital platform for the property tax collection. Officials in the MC said out of 42,000 households in the city paying Rs1 crore as water and sewerage charges 12,000 had registered for the online payment of dues.Owners of houses of size upto 125 square yard are exempt from the payment of water and sewerage bills.Mayor Sanjeev Kumar Sharma said, “Residents will get their water and sewerage bills on their mobile phones registered with the MC. They can pay bills online on the corporation’s portal.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/civic-body-starts-online-collection-of-water-sewerage-charges-in-patiala-214999
20-02-2021||Karam Prakash||No end to farmer’s wait for tubewell power connection||Tribune News ServicePatiala, February 19A small farmer has been waiting for the past eight years for an electricity connection for his tubewell. Karnail Singh of Dhamo Majra village in the district did what he could possibly do to get his power connection, but to no avail.The farmer under the scheme “Tubewell connection for 1 to 2.5 acre land owner” had applied for the connection in 2013. He had to then deposit Rs750 as security with Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL).The farmer has already deposited Rs2.18 lakh with the PSPCL in June last year for the material required for the electricity connection. Even after paying charges, the PSPCL couldn’t give power connection to the farmer. In the absence of connection, Karnail has already suffered a loss of two crops.“I am a small farmer. Therefore, I am being mentally harassed by the PSPCL staff. They have deliberately delayed the power connection. I have already paid the amount, but still the JE is not giving the connection,” said Karnail.Meanwhile, Ravinder Saini, Chief Engineer (Distribution), PSPCL, told The Tribune that he would look into the matter and direct the JE to immediately release the connection.Damandeep Singh, SDO, said, “Earlier, there was some objection from other department. Therefore, the connection was delayed. However, we have now decided to give him connection from other source. We will release the power connection to the farmer after the current crop season is over. Standing wheat crop of other farmers will be destroyed if we give connection now.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-end-to-farmers-wait-for-tubewell-power-connection-215000
20-02-2021||Patiala||Punjabi University teachers, students form human chain on Mother language day||A convention was held to discuss the role of Punjabi University in dissemination of Punjabi language and imparting education here today. University teachers and students also formed a human chain on the Punjabi University campus to observe International Mother Language Day, which falls on February 21.Writers, scholars, linguists, and artists, including Sahitya Akademi awardee Dr Kirpal Kazak and educationist Tarsem Bahiya among others expressed their views regarding current issues of the university during convocation, organised by the Department of Punjabi and Punjabi Literature Studies.They said, “The university is reeling under financial losses and as such it is important for all to support its cause.” University students displayed posters, which emphasised the need of learning and using Punjabi language in daily lives.Professors, who were part of the event, said Punjabi University had played a major role in dissemination of knowledge of Punjabi. They said the university was in financial burden to such an extent that it might close, which could stop new research in Punjabi language and literature. It was the biggest university catering to youth from the Malwa region, without which they would be bereft of the quality education, they added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjabi-university-teachers-students-form-human-chain-on-mother-language-day-215001
20-02-2021||Chandigarh||Theft at house, jewellery stolen||Parked Car catches fireDera Bassi: A car parked at a vacant plot on the Tehsil road in Mohan Nagar was damaged after it caught fire from a garbage dump in the plot. A fire brigade was rushed to the spot but by the time it reached, the car was totally burnt. The white-coloured car had a Himachal Pradesh registration number. Eyewitnesses said the car was parked at the spot for past three-four days. TNSCollege to hold webinar todayChandigarh: To address issues related to students eagerness during the pandemic period, the Government College of Yoga Education & Health, Sector 23, will organise an international webinar on the theme “PPP: Peace, Positivity, Prosperity” on February 20. UT Adviser Manoj Parida will be the chief guest and BK Sister Shivani will be the guest speaker on the occasion. TNSCricket trials from tomorrowChandigarh: The UT Cricket Association (UTCA) has announced four-day trials for Cooch Behar Trophy Under-19 probables which will begin on Sunday. After scrutinising documents, trials will be held for 60 players every day. The dates of the tournament will be announced after the Vijay Hazare Trophy and Senior Women’s tournament later this month. Last year, Chandigarh reached the quarterfinals, while the team lost to Vadodara in the semi-finals. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/theft-at-house-jewellery-stolen-215002
