21-02-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 28 new COVID-19 cases||Chandigarh reported 28 more coronavirus cases on Sunday, taking the Union Territory’s infection count to 21,425, according to a medical bulletin.No COVID-19 related death was reported on Sunday and the toll stood at 349, as per the bulletin.There are 186 active cases in the UT now, as per the bulletin.A total of 11 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of recoveries to 20,890, the bulletin said.A total of 2,43,429 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 2,21,056 tested negative while reports of 63 samples were awaited, according to the bulletin. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-28-new-covid-19-cases-215703
21-02-2021||Dera Bassi||Parasappa Hajilol, Sonika claim cross country titles||Parasappa Madevappa Hajilol of Karnataka and Haryana athlete Sonika won the men and women’s 10km races in the 55th National Cross Country Championships at the ATF Golf Meadows in Dera Bassi.The 25-year-old, Parasappa Hajilol, who hails from Bijapur and trains in Dharwad, surprised not only the more seasoned Vikram Bangriya (Madhya Pradesh) and Maharashtra steeplechaser Adesh Yadav but also a host of experienced runners like Abhishek Pal (Railways) and AB Belliappa, Darshan Singh, Hari Singh and defending champion Anish Thapa Magar (Services).In the men’s race, 224 runners were at the start but Parasappa Hajilol’s time of 31 minutes 13.21 seconds was less than a minute slower than Anish Thapa Magar’s 30:31.00 in the previous edition in Warangal in January 2020.173 women lined up for the start of their race. Sonika, a 21-year-old from Rohtak, and Maharashtra runners Komal Jagdale and Nikita Raut stunned defending champion Kavita Yadav and last year’s runner-up Varsha Devi (Railways) into fourth and fifth places, respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/parasappa-hajilol-sonika-claim-cross-country-titles-215680
21-02-2021||---||ED files chargesheet against firm, directors||New Delhi, February 20Enforcement Directorate (ED) said today that it had filed a chargesheet against a Chandigarh-based company and its directors for allegedly defrauding a consortium of banks led by the Punjab National Bank (PNB).The charge sheet was filed in a special court under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in Chandigarh against Kudos Chemie Ltd, Kudos Holdings Pvt Ltd and its directors Jitendra Singh and Gurmeet Sodhi on Thursday, the ED said in an official statement.The case is based on a CBI FIR registered in April 2017 against the company and its directors on the charges of “bank fraud with the consortium of banks led by the PNB”.“Jitendra Singh and Gurmeet Sodhi, directors of M/s Kudos Chemie Ltd, prepared forged export bills and got them discounted with the banks fraudulently,” the ED had alleged in its charge sheet.“They also diverted loan funds to their related firm, Kudos Holdings Pvt. Ltd, which is a shell company and through round-tripping showed the diverted funds as their own capital and took more loans from the banks,” the ED further alleged, adding that the duo also used the company’s loan for buying properties in individual names.Immovable properties worth Rs343 crore were attached by the ED in the case earlier.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ed-files-chargesheet-against-firm-directors-215357
21-02-2021||---||Get jabbed before 2nd peak, says Chandigarh Administration||Chandigarh, February 20In view of rising cases of Covid-19 in several parts of the country, including Punjab, the UT Health Department has urged healthcare workers and frontline workers to take the vaccine jab before another wave of Covid hits the city.Today was the last day for free vaccination for the healthcare workers. Experts have urged the targeted group to take vaccination during the mop-up round and develop immunity against the disease.Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, Chandigarh, said: “The immunity against Covid-19 is developed in approximately two months, including both dose schedules. Given that Covid cases have started rising in the nearby states, there are high chances that its impact will be felt in the Chandigarh region too. Punjab has already started showing a rise in cases and it is worrisome. The peak will gradually take at least two months to pace up and we must ensure that our frontline workers and healthcare workers are immune by that time. Skipping the vaccination is not the right approach as trend can change anytime.”Dr Kang shared that the cases in Chandigarh are at present showing a mixed trend with a few days showing a little spike.Dr Jasvinder Kaur, Director, Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, said the vaccination programme had picked up pace at the Government Medical College and Hospital. As many as 206 beneficiaries were vaccinated on Saturday. She said since it was the last day, many beneficiaries turned up for vaccination. It was expected that more healthcare workers would come forward in the mop-up round.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/get-jabbed-before-2nd-peak-says-chandigarh-administration-215358
21-02-2021||ibune News Service ---||Driver cooks up Rs1-lakh snatching story, two held||Zirakpur, February 20 A masked youth entered a private eyecare centre and made off with Rs65,000 kept in the cash box at the reception today. The incident happened around 4 pm when the staff were in the backroom and the main gate was locked from inside.  The suspect took just one and a half minutes to break the lock and commit the  Continued on page 2||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/driver-cooks-up-rs1-lakh-snatching-story-two-held-215359
21-02-2021||Panchkula||‘Bhandara’ restarts at Mansa Devi today||The “langar” or “bhandara sewa” at the Mata Mansa Devi temple, which was suspended after the coronavirus outbreak last year, will restart tomorrow with all Covid-19 precautionary measures.The decision was taken at an official meeting held under the chairmanship of Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta, on the preparations for Chaitra Navratras, which will start on April 13.The meeting was also attended by the Deputy Commissioner and Chief Administrator, Shri Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Board, Mukesh Kumar Ahuja.Physical as well as online ‘darshan’ during NavratrasThe “darshan” facility during the Navratras will be physical as well as online. The physical darshan will on a 400 people-15 minute basis every day during the Navratras. People can also opt for lift entry by paying Rs50 per head for which registration will be available online. The service will be limited to 100 persons per hour.The Shrine Board may raise the capping in view of a “huge decline in daily Covid numbers”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bhandara-restarts-at-mansa-devi-today-215360
21-02-2021||Chandigarh||Three more suspects held in Sector 15 firing||Three suspects, who were booked on a charge of opening fire in Sector 15, have been arrested.The suspects have been identified as Tarsem, Vishal and Vikas. The police claimed to have recovered the pistol used in the crime from Vikas. Five persons have been arrested in the case so far. Earlier, two suspects, Jenta and Nikhil, were arrested.The suspects, including Mannu Dubey, husband of Chandigarh Mahila Congress president Deipa Asdhir Dubey, were booked on a charge of opening fire outside the couple’s house. The suspects allegedly fired three gunshots to threaten the house tenant and his friends, who were also “assaulted”, on the intervening night of February 14 and 15.The police said Mannu and his accomplices had obstructed the way of the complainant, Gurdass Singh (23), and had argued with him over repeatedly inviting outsiders to the house.Mannu and his accomplices allegedly thrashed the complainant and his friend Ravi. Later, during the night, the complainant and his friends returned to the rented accommodation to collect their belongings and their car. In the meantime, Mannu and his accomplices — Jenta, Nikhil, Vishal, Tarsem Singh and others — who were carrying sticks and arms, caught hold of complainant’s friend Manjit and started assaulting him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-more-suspects-held-in-sector-15-firing-215361
21-02-2021||---||Farmers hold mahapanchayat in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, February 20At the Rally Ground of Sector 25, a crowd of over 7,000 people attended the first mahapanchayat in the City Beautiful. Propounded by the leaders of farmer unions, the dialectical camaraderie between Punjab and Haryana converged on the stage where some speakers address crowds in ‘puadhi’ language. The Tricolour stood tall amidst flags of several farmer unions and slogans of ‘Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan’ and ‘Kisan, Mazdoor Ekta, Zindabaad’ exuded the fervour of nationalism.The key speakers at the event, Joginder Singh Ugrahan of the BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), Ruldu Singh Mansa of the Punjab Kisan Union and Gurnam Singh Chaduni of the BKU, Haryana, spoke about the alleged BJP government-corporate nexus. “While Adani’s making silos or godowns for grains in Moga and Haryana, Modi’s making the laws,” alleged Joginder Singh Ugrahan.Gurnam Singh Chaduni alleged, “Every time our supporters here have protested against the farm laws, the authorities have used violence as means to silence them.” He added: “If we lose this fight for our food, we will never be able to fight for our rights again. If these agro-business laws are exercised, everyone’s food will land in only a few people’s godowns.”Sadhu Singh Sarangpur, one of the speakers, took to ‘puadhi’ language as he rooted for farm laws to be revoked, and Ruldu Singh Mansa cheered the people of Chandigarh for supporting farmers. “It is heartwarming how these farm laws reached urban spaces such as Chandigarh. It is encouraging that the City Beautiful, the hub of education and educated people, is backing us,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farmers-hold-mahapanchayat-in-chandigarh-215362
21-02-2021||Deepankar Sharda||School bus operators seek tax exemption||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 20Claiming to be on the brink of bankruptcy, members of the Chandigarh School Bus Operators’ Welfare Association said the UT Administration did not take any action on their demands.Manjeet Singh Saini, president of the association, said despite various reminders, neither the State Transport Authority (STA) nor officials of the UT Administration came to their rescue. “We have not heard a word of help from the UT Administration. We have not earned a single penny for the past one year. If our demands are not met, we would have no option but to organise a silent protest across the city,” said Saini.Talking about their demands, he said even as buses had come to a standstill, they were bound to pay taxes, which could be exempted by the local authorities.“We demanded exemption from paying road tax for a period from March 2020 to March 2021 as already approved by the Punjab Government. The UT Administration should waiver late fee and penalty on road tax/fitness test as the Ministry of Road and Transport (MRT) has already approved that the validity of the documents can be extended to March 31, 2021. However, many of our members are asked to submit late fee,” he said.Saini added that they also sought a one-year extension to the life span of school buses. He said, “We have nowhere to go. We have only one source of income. We are bound to pay insurances and salaries.”UT Adviser Manoj Parida said late fee would be exempted. “Bus owners are engaged by private school managements. It is their bilateral contract and the Administration has nothing to do with it,” said Parida. He added, “Most of these (demands) will be decisions, which have to be taken by the MRT for the entire country. If they have any specific issue, they should meet the UT Transport Secretary.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/school-bus-operators-seek-tax-exemption-215363
21-02-2021||---||Kang claims support of Independents||Mohali, February 20 Despite a hung Municipal Council House in Kharar, the Congress party would manage to get its councillor elected for the post of president with the support Independent candidates.  Senior Congress leader Jagmohan Singh Kang claimed support of the Independent candidates. He claimed that the party would also be able to get its councillors elected as president in Kurali and Nayagoan MCs. Responding to the allegations being raised by some party workers over the poor performance in Kharar and Nayagaon, Kang said baseless allegations were being levelled by those who had no position in the party.  He said the tickets were allotted to meritorious candidates and that too after consulting the people in each ward. He said the percentage of votes for the Congress party has improved considerably.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kang-claims-support-of-independents-215414
21-02-2021||---||Sohana implicated in false case: Ex-Mayor||Mohali, February 20  Former Mayor Kulwant Singh here today alleged that the police were framing Parvinder Singh Sohana, a senior member of the Azad Group, in a firing incident during a party held at the latter’s house. He alleged the police were harassing the relatives of Sohana at the behest of Cabinet Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu. Kulwant Singh said the party was being organised in view of the victory of Harvinder Kaur Sohana, wife of Parvinder Singh Sohana. He said these acts of revenge against the Azad Group members would not be tolerated at any cost. Address the media here today, Kulwant Singh and Azad Group councillors Sukhdev Singh Patwari, Harjinder Kaur Sohana, former councillors Fulraj Singh and RP Sharma said Parvinder Singh had been falsely implicated in the case. They said if any such mistake has been made by anyone during the party then the police should take appropriate action in this regard but despite not being present in the party and on the basis of an edited viral video, the police have registered a case against Sohana.  The case was registered and their house was raided by the police and apprehended Sohana’s the relatives including his uncle, son-in-law and nephew, who came to their house. They further said that even though the police had lodged a case against unidentified persons for attacking Kulwant Singh’s office before elections the police had not even raided the houses of the accused leave aside arresting the accused. They said that the persons who have been framed in the firing incident have surrendered in the court but despite this Parvinder Singh Sohana’s family were not being released by the police. They alleged that Parvinder Singh Sohana was being targeted as he had raised the issue of transfer of valuable land of village Dheri to the company of Sidhu’s brother which was later cancelled by the Punjab and Haryana High Court.   However, Cabinet Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said baseless allegations were being levelled against him as it has become a habit of the Azad Group to hold them accountable for every issue.  DSP (City-2) Deep Kamal said allegations levelled against the police were completely baseless and the police were carrying out their work without any political pressure.  Sohana SHO Bhagwant Singh said, “Three persons have been arrested. The suspects have been identified as Sandeep, Amandeep Singh and Navdeep. The owner of the weapon, the person who had fired and one involved in hooting. A case has been registered against Parminder Singh Sohana, Balwinder and 12 unknown persons under sections 336,188,148,149 of the Indian Penal Code and 25, 27 Arms Act at the Sohana police station on February 19.” The suspects have been sent to two-day police remand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sohana-implicated-in-false-case-ex-mayor-215418
21-02-2021||---||SAD dissolves urban units in Dera Bassi||Zirakpur, February 20 The urban units of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) have been dissolved in the Dera Bassi constituency.  A new set of office-bearers will be formed soon in Derbassi, Lalru and Zirakpur to formulate a new strategy in the future. SAD treasurer and Dera Bassi MLA made the announcement during a meeting with workers. He said a new organisation would be formed soon to deal with the excesses of the Congress party in which new office-bearers would be appointed. He said that the public welfare policies of the SAD would be delivered door-to-door. The Congress defeated SAD in two-way contest in the recently held Zirakpur MC elections with a margin of 23-8, bringing an end to their 18 years of dominance, and 10 years in Dera Bassi and Lalru.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sad-dissolves-urban-units-in-dera-bassi-215419
21-02-2021||---||Man complains of weevil-infested rice||Panchkula, February 20 A Rajiv Colony resident has filed a police complaint after he allegedly found weevils in the dry ration provided by a government school in Sector 17 under the mid-day meal ration scheme. The complainant, Narender, alleged that the rice received by him from the Government Model Primary School, Sector 17, on behalf on his children was infested with weevil.  However, the FIR is yet to be filed in the case as the facts of the matter is being verified by the police. Sub-Inspector Sushil Kumar, in-charge of the Sector 16 police post, said they had asked the complainant to approach the Food and Supply Department in this regard. “But when he came to us, we accepted his complaint,” Kumar said. Nirupama, District Elementary Education Officer (DEEO), said no such matter has come to her knowledge. “I will check my department officials if any such matter has been reported. If anyone found guilty, we will take action,” she added.  Even though schools are being opened up for higher classes, the classes for primary students are likely to begin from new academic session. As per recent directive of the education department, the delivery of dry ration to students’ houses will continue for now as cooked meals will not be provided in schools. The government had introduced the scheme last year when Covid-19 forced government to close schools.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-complains-of-weevil-infested-rice-215420
21-02-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Police constable held for theft||The police have arrested one Lovepreet Singh (28), a resident of Gurdaspur, involved in a theft of Rs1.5 lakh from Akashdeep, a resident of Mullanpur, on February 15.   According to the complainant, he was stopped by a man wearing police uniform near the roundabout of 7/26/19/27, who requested for a lift to the grain market in Sector 26. After dropping him, when the complainant reached his office and checked his bag, he found Rs1.5 lakh missing in it.   A case under section 379 of the IPC was registered at the Sector 26 police station on February 19. During the investigation, a CCTV footage have been obtained from the various places and on the basis of the footage a tip-off was received regarding suspicious person, who was wearing a police uniform. On verification, it was found that the suspect was serving as a constable in Punjab Police in Battalion-75/282/PAP. On February 20, the suspect has been arrested near the backside of Secretariat, Sector 1, Chandigarh. The police have recovered the stolen money Rs90,000, Aadhaar card and ATM card of the complainant from his possession.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-police-constable-held-for-theft-215421
21-02-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab FC play draw against Real Kashmir||RoundGlass Punjab FC’s three-match winning streak came to a halt as it played a 1-1 draw against Real Kashmir FC in the I-League top of the table clash at Kalyani Municipal Stadium, West Bengal.Joseba Beitia’s penalty was cancelled out by Dipanda Dicka’s header in an eventful second half, which also saw two red cards.Punjab decided against making any changes from its win against Chennai City whereas Real Kashmir made two changes as Dipanda Dicka and Lalrindika Ralte were brought back to the starting line-up after its thrilling 4-3 win against NEROCA.In an end-to-end start, it was RoundGlass Punjab, who came close to breaking the deadlock in the 6th minute as Papa Diawara’s lobbed header was cleared off the line by Mason Robertson. The game slowly settled down as they started dominating possession.By the 20th minute, Curtis Fleming’s side held a massive 72 per cent possession.RoundGlass turned up the pressure, winning two free kicks, one after the other. The first one was hit straight into the wall by Chencho Gyeltshen in the 21st minute. Two minutes later, it won another free kick from 25-odd yards and Joseba Beitia forced Mithun Samantha into tipping his effort over the bar.RoundGlass came close again to opening the score line through a long throw on the 56th minute. However, Diawara headed his effort inches wide of the goal after Irshad’s flick inside the box. Four minutes later, Limbu had to be alert as he carried away Mason Robertson’s low powerful drive.The game took an ugly turn in the 63rd minute when Chencho clashed with Haroon Amiri in an off-the-ball incident and both received their marching orders. The opening goal finally came after Dharmaraj Ravanan fouled substitute Sumit Passi in the area and Joseba Beitia slotted his penalty low past Mithun Samantha on the 67th minute.Mason Robertson was at the end of Sena Ralte’s long cross into the area. The defender sent his first-time cross across the goal where Dicka headed the ball over the line, levelling the score line. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-fc-play-draw-against-real-kashmir-215423
21-02-2021||---||Roshan sails into second round||Panchkula, February 20Roshan Joshi from Madhya Pradesh had to rely on his skills to defeat Mathivanan Kalaivanan of Karnataka in a tough outing 12-10, 11-8, 7-11, 11-13 and 11-7 before moving into the second round during the opening day of the UTT 82nd National Table Tennis Championship at Tau Devi Lal Stadium here today.Though first-round matches did not throw any surprises, a few results added glitter as they went the full distance. Joshi led 2-0, but the Karnataka boy levelled the score to give his rival a scare. In the decider, Joshi took a sizable lead and maintained it throughout to win.Similarly, Kerala’s Aswin Gokul coasted along nicely with a 2-0 lead before Dishant Parida from Odisha shifted gears to beat the Kerala paddler 8-11, 16-18, 11-9, 11-5 and 11-6.Aditya Dev from Assam followed the same path, taking the last three games to beat Goa’s Reagan Pinto 7-11, 2-11, 11-5, 11-7 and 11-6. Manipur’s Denial Rajkumar downed Nitin Singh Gusain of Uttarakhand 8-11, 12-10, 12-14, 11-9 and 11-9 in another first-round thriller.Another five-game match was played between Sameer Sahni of the FCI and Vaibhav Dahibhate of Central Revenue Services Board.Sahni won 9-11, 7-11, 11-8, 11-5 and 11-5, but not before facing initial hiccups. Railways’ Kiranjoy Pushilal had to wage a grim battle against Sachin Hemanth of the TNTTA after trailing 0-2 to make a match of it. In the end, his experience over the Chennai rival stood him in good stead as he won 6-11, 7-11, 11-9, 11-5 and 11-7.Delhi’s Parth Virmani, who represents Central Revenue Services Board, met his match in Sarth Mishra from Uttar Pradesh. An attacking Parth was rusty and it reflected in his first extended game, which he lost 15-17. However, he won the second before losing the third. With pressure mounting, the experienced paddler steadied to end Sarth’s resistance and win 15-17, 11-2, 9-11 11-7 and 11-7.The battle now resumes tomorrow morning with the interesting last-round matches between the top two players in each group. The 60 qualifiers from the group matches will join the 16-seeded players in the main draw with 52 byes on offer. The top-16, including A Saratha, G Sathiyan, Harmeet Desai, Vikas Thakkar, Anthony Amalraj and the rest of those with byes, join the real action from the round of 64 tomorrow evening.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/roshan-sails-into-second-round-215424
21-02-2021||---||e-auction of leftover fancy numbers from March 1 to 3||Chandigarh, February 20The Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA), UT, will hold e-auction of leftover fancy/special registration numbers of previous series from March 1 to 3.The registration for participation in the e-auction will start from February 22 and will continue till February 28. The e-auction will start from March 1 (10 am) and will continue till March 3 (5 pm).The e-auction will be held for leftover fancy/special registration numbers of previous series - CH01-CD, CH01-CC, CH01-CB, CH01-CA, CH01-BZ, CH01-BY, CH01-BX, CH01-BW, CH01-BV, CH01-BU, CH01-BT and CH01-BS.The owners of vehicles purchased on the Chandigarh address only will be allowed to participate in the e-auction.The vehicle owners can register themselves on the national transport website https://vahan.parivahan.gov.in/fancy and the link of the same is available on the Chandigarh Administration, Transport Department website www.chdtransport.gov.The details of fee for registration to participate in the e-auction, list of reserve price for each special number, detail of leftover registration number of previous series and terms and conditions for e-auction is available on the Transport Department website www.chdtransport.gov.in.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/e-auction-of-leftover-fancy-numbers-from-march-1-to-3-215425
21-02-2021||Chandigarh||Surinder, Usha shine in inter-media TT tourney||Surinder Singh Rawal and Usha Singh won the men’s and women’s singles title, respectively, on the concluding day of the Inter-Media Table Tennis Championship. Rajesh Moudgil and Naveen Tyagi won the bronze medal each, whereas Richa Segha claimed silver in the women’s category. In the men’s veteran’s singles title clash, Sanjay Bumbroo ousted Raj Rishi. Barinder Saluja and Usha Singh won the mixed doubles title by defeating Naveen Tyagi and Richa Sehgal. In the men’s doubles final, team of Surinder Singh Rawal and Saurabh Duggal edged out Sukhwinder Pal Sodhi and Arvind Saini. Atul Nanda, Punjab Advocate General and president of the Punjab Table Tennis Association, awarded the winners. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/surinder-usha-shine-in-inter-media-tt-tourney-215426
21-02-2021||---||Awareness van flagged off||Mohali, February 20Deputy Medical Commissioner Dr Daljit Singh Pardesi flagged off an Information Education Communication (IEC) awareness van regarding the Ayushman Bharat Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana from the Civil Hospital here today.Speaking on the occasion, Dr Daljit said under the Tandrust Punjab initiative of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, the Punjab Government was providing health insurance cover of up to Rs5 lakh annually, which includes BPL families, Smart Rashan Card holders, farmers and traders.Dr Daljit said this van would visit the remote areas and villages in the district for one month to create awareness about the scheme and e-cards of the eligible beneficiaries would be generated there as well. Daily reporting of the vans would be monitored.Dr Daljit said the work to generate e-cards had been expedited and these r-cards were being generated at places such as Common Service Centres, Sewa Kendras and Market Committees. He urged all eligible beneficiaries to reach the nearest e-card generation centre to get these made under the scheme.Senior Medical Officer Dr Vijey Bhagat, Dr Parminder Singh, Gurjashan Singh and other officers of the department were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/awareness-van-flagged-off-215428
21-02-2021||---||Man held with 1.4-kg poppy husk||Panchkula, February 20 The detective staff of the Panchkula police today arrested a drug peddler and seized 1.476-kg poppy husk from his possession. The suspect has been identified as Raj Kumar (59), a resident of Ghatiwala village in Pinjore. He was produced in a local court, which sent him to five-day police custody. While the detective staff was on regular patrolling around 12:15 am, they intercepted a man near the Chandimandir toll plaza on the Panchkula-Kalka Highway. After seeing the police vehicle, the suspect started taking long strides. On suspicion, the police started interrogated him. The suspect tried to throw away a plastic bag from his clothes. The police caught him and recovered 1.476-kg contraband from the packet. A case under Sections 15, 61 and 85 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act has been registered against the suspect at the Chandimandir police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-held-with-1-4-kg-poppy-husk-215429
21-02-2021||---||Imbibe yoga for necessary transformation: Chandigarh Adviser||Chandigarh, February 20“Inner peace and happiness during the pandemic can be achieved through shift in our perspective and viewing the present moment as an opportunity to move into future of possibilities,” said UT Adviser Manoj Parida while presiding over an international webinar on ‘Peace Positivity and Prosperity (PPP) during Pandemic’.The webinar was organised by the Government College of Yoga Education and Health to address various disruptions caused by the global pandemic in different areas of our lives. It was graced by spiritual teacher and inspirational speaker Sister BK Shivani.The Adviser also released a handbook of information on integrated approach to holistic health comprising scholarly articles on ways to lead a meaningful life. He congratulated the college for organising the webinar that focuses on dealing with the uncertainties and imbalance caused by the pandemic. He further suggested imbibing yoga in one’s life for necessary transformation in oneself.In her talk, Sister Shivani said: “Vibrations around the world have turned negative with the outbreak of Covid-19 and we need to go back to the actual normal that comprises of calm and stability”.“To achieve this goal, yoga has to be seen in totality focusing attention on our thought process as it is connected to our mental and physical health,” she said.She spoke about the four types of effects that our resolutions and thinking have on our mental and physical health, relationships and the nature and suggested that “Raja yoga” is a way to transcend on the path of leading a high vibrational lifestyle. She concluded her talk by giving a practical experience of visualisation.Proposing the vote of thanks, Dr Sapna Nanda, principal of the college, said: “To live in harmony with oneself and the environment is the need of the hour when human beings are facing physical and mental distress.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/imbibe-yoga-for-necessary-transformation-chandigarh-adviser-215430
21-02-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh Tourism Department one-stop facility for obtaining NOC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 20To encourage film, songs and other shootings in the city, the UT Tourism Department has become a one-stop shop for obtaining the no-objection certificate (NOC) from various departments.Simplifying the procedures, a dedicated Bollywood facilitation cell has been set up in the office of the Tourism Department for making the process easier for obtaining the NOC.“Now, there is no need for the applicant to go to various departments for obtaining the NOC. The applicant has to send a duly filled application to the Tourism Department through email or WhatsApp or even can drop it in a drop box placed near the entry gate of the office,” said an official of the department.He said the department would take permission from different departments and forward it to the applicant. Before arriving in the city, the applicant would have all permissions in hand.To bring all departments on one platform for granting permission, the department was in the process of developing a portal, he said.Earlier, the applicant had to apply with different departments such as the police, the administration and the tourism for obtaining the permission. Now, the applicant has to submit the application only with the Tourism Department, which will coordinate with other departments in obtaining the permission. Being a planned city, the UT has become a favourite destination for shooting of Punjabi and Hindi films over the years. Bollywood facilitation cell set upSimplifying the procedures, a dedicated Bollywood facilitation cell has been set up in the office of the Tourism Department for making the process easier for obtaining the no-objection certificate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-tourism-department-one-stop-facility-for-obtaining-noc-215431
21-02-2021||---||A great teacher and excellent clinician||Chandigarh, February 20Prof BK Sharma, a legend in the field of medicine, will be remembered for his knowledge and humility. He rose from a humble background of Bhia village in Jammu to become the Director of the PGI, Chandigarh.Born in 1937, Prof Sharma had early schooling in Amritsar. He had a brilliant undergraduate and postgraduate academic record at Amritsar Medical College.He joined the PGI in 1967 as a lecturer and became the Head, Department of Internal Medicine, and subsequently the Director of the institute. Prof Sharma had the unique qualities of a great teacher, an excellent clinician and above all, a good human being.He taught a generation of doctors, treated thousands of patients and was a great researcher. He was known for his extraordinary ability to diagnose and treat the most critical patients. His area of interest included hypertension and Takayasu Arterites. He was fondly called a Doyen in Medicine. He will be missed by his students who are spread across the globe and his patients who came from all walks of life. He left for his heavenly abode on Friday peacefully. He is survived by his wife, Prof Saroj Sharma, a microbiologist, and two children.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/a-great-teacher-and-excellent-clinician-215463
21-02-2021||---||Rs 65,000 stolen from eye clinic||Zirakpur, February 20A masked youth entered a private eyecare centre and made off with Rs65,000 kept in the cash box at the reception today. The incident happened around 4 pm when the staff were in the backroom and the main gate was locked from inside.The suspect took just one and a half minutes to break the lock and commit the theft which was captured on the CCTV. He fled the spot on his bike parked outside the clinic. The police have recorded the statements of the women staff present in the clinic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs-65-000-stolen-from-eye-clinic-215467
21-02-2021||Amarjot Kaur||Month on, father catches sight of activist brought to GMCH for medical check-up||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 20On Saturday morning arrived Shiv Kumar, 24, president of the Mazdoor Adhikaar Sangathan, at the Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32 with Haryana cops for his medical examination as ordered by the Punjab and Haryana High Court. His medical reports will be out on Monday, said lawyers, who accompanied Shiv and the police.Shiv was arrested by the Haryana Police on January 16 from Kundli border for mobilising the workers of the Kundli Industrial Area, said his friends.His father Rajbir Kumar and two friends Jasminder Tinku and Ankit waited at the park facing the hospital’s Emergency building to catch a glimpse of Shiv. Teary-eyed, his father broke down looking at his son’s limping gait. “Kya gareebo ki bhalaai, adhikaar kay liye ladna itna bada jurm hai? (Is it a crime to fight for the rights of poor?),” he mumbled to himself.Rajbir, a resident of Dewru village in Sonepat, Haryana, said, “I came here at 9 am to see my son. I haven’t seen him since January 16 and even the police didn’t inform us about his arrest.”Ankit, Shiv’s friend, added, “We got to know of Shiv’s arrest on January 31. On January 24, he was presented in a court. None of us were apprised of his whereabouts.”For eight days, he was illegally taken in remand by the police, where he was brutally beaten up, Ankit alleged, adding that he was not even given warm clothes or slippers in the jail. He got his spectacles just a day ago, he said.One of the medical staff was quick to notice the discolouration and swelling on Shiv’s feet. On the condition of anonymity, the staffer said, “His nails are blue. His feet are swollen, despite the one-month delay.”Jasminder said, “The situation at the Kundli Industrial Area is bad. The area’s industrialists’ association has formed a ‘quick response team’, which comprises paid goons to silence daily wagers asking for their salaries.”He added, “Shiv was mobilising these daily wagers to fight for their salaries, which have been withheld by these big companies for months now. This seems to be his fault.” Jasminder said, “Even though the police came to Shiv’s house to enquire about his whereabouts and spoke to his mother, who had not seen him since January 16, they didn’t tell her he was arrested.”Soon after the medical examination, Shiv was taken back to the Sonepat District Jail. His father doesn’t know when he will see his son next. Shiv didn’t utter a word. The police held his hand, escorted him at all times in the E- Block of the GMCH-32.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/month-on-father-catches-sight-of-activist-brought-to-gmch-for-medical-check-up-215470
21-02-2021||---||Chandigarh to promote non-polluting industries, says Administrator||Chandigarh, February 20The UT will be promoted as a destination for non-polluting industries, informed UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore during the sixth Governing Council Meeting of the NITI Aayog.“Through its pioneering projects in the key sectors for self-reliance, Chandigarh has emerged as the flag-bearer of the Atma Nirbhar Bharat vision and is taking strides towards becoming a destination for industries like information and technology, R&D institutions, startups, medical and adventure tourism,” said Badnore, while participating in a virtual meeting of the Aayog chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.The meeting was held to discuss infrastructure, growth, health and nutrition among other issues with the state governments and UT administrations.A senior UT official said the Administration had taken a number of initiatives to upgrade the infrastructure in the city to boost economic growth in the region. “Chandigarh has emerged as a regional hub in the areas of service industry, education, health, information technology, etc,” he said, adding that the City Beautiful had also ranked first in India in the Human Development Index, quality of life and e-readiness.The official said various initiatives were taken by the Administration to improve the governance by involving participation of citizens in the decision-making.During the meeting, the Prime Minister asked the states to form committees to reduce regulations which were no longer relevant in the wake of technology.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-promote-non-polluting-industries-says-administrator-215471
21-02-2021||---||Vice-Chancellor approves reopening of hostels at Panjab University||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 20Prof Raj Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, Panjab University, has approved the recommendations of a committee regarding reopening of the hostels on the university premises.In view of the requirement of different regulatory bodies such as the Atomic Energy Regulatory Board, the Dental Council of India and the Pharmacy Council of India, students of final semester of medical physics, nuclear medicine, MDS and MPharmacy, who were earlier putting up in hostel, will be allowed to stay in hostels from February 22. Also, PhD students, who were enrolled/registered before lockdown (March 23 last year), will be given hostel accommodation.Eligible students have to follow certain conditions, including a Covid-19 test within a week prior to joining the hostel accommodation and an undertaking on following the guidelines to be submitted in the office of the hostel warden. Food will be served in tiffin box on cash payment basis.Also, guests/visitors’ entry will not be allowed till further orders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vice-chancellor-approves-reopening-of-hostels-at-panjab-university-215472
21-02-2021||Zirakpur||Walk-in aviary, bird enclosures to reopen at Chhatbir zoo today||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/walk-in-aviary-bird-enclosures-to-reopen-at-chhatbir-zoo-today-215474
21-02-2021||Chandigarh||One death, 26 new cases in Chandigarh||Mohali sees one fatality, 30 casesMohali: The district witnessed one more fatality due to Covid-19 during the past 24 hours taking the toll to 382. Meanwhile, 30 fresh cases surfaced from the district till Saturday evening, while 22 patients were discharged from hospitals after recovering from the virus. Out of the fresh cases, 23 were reported from Mohali (urban), one each from Dera Bassi, Dhakoli and Kurali and four from Kharar. The district has so far seen 19,926 cases, while 19,158 patients have been cured. Now, there are 386 active cases. As many as 382 persons have succumbed to the virus. — TNS16 more infected in Panchkula districtPanchkula: The district on Saturday reported 16 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the tally to 10,732. The Covid toll remained at 148. While 10,473 patients have recovered from the disease so far, 111 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 97.58 per cent. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-death-26-new-cases-in-chandigarh-215481
21-02-2021||Panchkula||100% vaccination target acheived  in Panchkula||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/100-vaccination-target-acheived-in-panchkula-215484
21-02-2021||New Delhi||ED files chargesheet against Chandigarh company, its directors in bank fraud case||A chargesheet has been filed against a Chandigarh-based company and its promoters who allegedly cheated a consortium of banks led by the Punjab National Bank (PNB), the Enforcement Directorate said on Saturday.The chargesheet was filed before a special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court in Chandigarh against Kudos Chemie Ltd, Kudos Holdings Pvt Ltd and its directors Jitendra Singh and Gurmeet Sodhi on February 18, the agency said in a statement.The case is based on an FIR filed by the CBI in April 2017 against the company and its directors on charges of "bank fraud with the consortium of banks led by PNB"."Jitendra Singh and Gurmeet Sodhi, directors of M/s Kudos Chemie Ltd, prepared forged export bills and got them discounted with the banks fraudulently," the ED alleged."They also diverted loan funds to their related firm Kudos Holdings Pvt Ltd (which is) a shell company and through round-tripping showed the diverted funds as their own capital and took more loans from the banks," it claimed.According to the agency, the duo also used company loan funds for buying properties in individual names.Immovable properties worth Rs 343 crore were attached by the ED in the case earlier. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ed-files-chargesheet-against-chandigarh-company-its-directors-in-bank-fraud-case-215167
