22-02-2021||---||Hajilol, Sonika claim cross country titles||Tribune News ServiceDera Bassi, February 21Parasappa Madevappa Hajilol of Karnataka and Haryana athlete Sonika won the men’s and women’s 10-km races in the 55th National Cross Country Championship at ATF Golf Meadows in Dera Bassi.The 25-year-old Parasappa Hajilol, who hails from Bijapur and trains in Dharwad, surprised not only more seasoned Vikram Bangriya (Madhya Pradesh) and Maharashtra steeplechaser Adesh Yadav but also a host of experienced runners such as Abhishek Pal (Railways) and AB Belliappa, Darshan Singh, Hari Singh and defending champion Anish Thapa Magar (Services).In the men’s race, 224 runners were at the start but Parasappa Hajilol’s time of 31 minutes and 13.21 seconds was less than a minute slower than Anish Thapa Magar’s 30:31.00 in the previous edition in Warangal in January 2020.As many as 173 women lined up for the start of their race. Sonika, 21-year-old from Rohtak, and Maharashtra runners Komal Jagdale and Nikita Raut stunned defending champion Kavita Yadav and last year’s runner-up Varsha Devi (Railways) into fourth and fifth places, respectively.Defending champion Services held back Railways’ challenge to retain its grip on the men’steam title with each of its top four runners finishing in the top 10. Abhishek Pal was the only Railways runner with a top 10 finish on Sunday. But with the others in top 20, it was able to drive Madhya Pradesh into the third place.In the women’s team event, Haryana unseated Railways from the top spot. With Sonika, Sanju, Munni Devi and Bharti each securing a top-10 finish, the Haryana quartet pipped Railways to the crown. Interestingly, the Railways team – Kavita Devi, Varsha Devi, Nandini Gupta and Priti Lamba – also had top-10 finishes but Haryana enjoyed a 2-point lead.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hajilol-sonika-claim-cross-country-titles-215866
22-02-2021||Panchkula||60 players qualify for main draw||As many as 60 players qualified for the main draw after three rounds of stage 1 of the 82nd National Table Tennis Championship at Tau Devi Lal Indoor Stadium.However, only 12 among 24 players from the last groups could get a chance to rub shoulders with the seeded players.Tamil Nadu’s Abinay Vijay Babu will have a chance to play the top-seeded Sharath Kamal in his next round. Jeho Himnakulhpungheta from Mizoram will clash with second-seeded G Sathiyan.In the round of 128, Ashwin Subramanian of Maharashtra outwitted Gujarat’s Dhariya Parmar to win 3-2. In his next round, Subramanian will take on sixth-seed Sushmit Sriram, also a player from Tamil Nadu, but a TTFI wildcard entrant here.When the open draw took place in the morning, former national champions — Sharath Kamal, Anthony Amalraj and Soumyajit Ghosh — were packed in the first quarter itself. The second quarter of the draw has other seeded players in Ronit Bhanja (5), Sudhanshu Grover (12), Jubin Kumar (13) and Manav Thakkar, the fourth seed.The third quarter has defending champion Harmeet Desai, seeded No. 3, along with Sourav Saha (14), Arjun Ghosh (11) and Sushmit Sriram (6). The last quarter has one former national champion in Sanil Shetty, seeded No. 7, clubbed with 10th seed Jeet Chandra, 15th seed Manush Shah and second-seeded Sathiyan.Anthony Amalraj beat his West Bengal rival Soumyadeep Sarkar 12-10, 7-11, 7-11, 11-8, 11-9, 9-11 and 14-12 to enter into the round of 32. Preyesh Raj Suresh beat Jeet Chandra 11-9, 11-6, 8-11, 11-13, 11-6 and 11-9. Thirteenth seed Jubin Kumar found the going tough against Akaash Nath of MC&IT. The Haryana left-hander had no starting problems as he surged into a 2-0 lead before dropping a game to his opponent. Jubin brought a semblance of order to his game in the next, but Akaash cashed in on the opportunities that came his way in the fifth to pull one back.Even in the sixth, it was touch-and-go. After deuce, the left-hander struck at the first opportunity to pick the crucial two points. The other seeded players had it easy against their opponents, including No. 1 seed A Sharath Kamal, G Sathiyan, Harmeet Desai and Manav Thakkar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/60-players-qualify-for-main-draw-215865
22-02-2021||Gaurav Kanthwal||Bird watching contest in times of flu, Team Kestral wins||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 21At a time when a majority of the city residents are seeing birds with an eye of suspicion, a group of nature lovers are trying to spot and capture as many birds and different species on a given day.The Chandigarh Bird Club today organised a bird watching competition, ‘Bird Race 2021’, in which 13 teams from the region took part.The team which spots and clicks the maximum number of birds and species is declared the winner of the competition.Team Kestral won the first prize for spotting 189 birds while Team Black Baza stood second with their count touching 186. Team Falcon was declared third for spotting 160 birds. Northern lapwing, a rare species of bird, was adjudged the ‘Rare Bird of the Day’.Chandigarh Bird Club president Mitinderpal Singh Shekhon said, “Team Black Baza spotted the rare bird at Mote Majra.”Northern lapwing, also known as the peewit, tuit or tew-it, is a bird in the lapwing family. It is common through temperate Euro-Siberia.The 11th annual bird race event was coordinated by Rima Dhillon, the general secretary of the club.Avid bird watchers of the region take part in the competition and form teams, who visit various sites in the interstate Chandigarh region (ISCR) such as Sukhna Lake, Chakki Mod in Solan, Morni Hills, Chhat village, Mote Majra, Siswan dam, Mirzapur dam in Mohali and other areas.Kulbhushan Kanwar, a city-based bird watcher said, “The annual competition is a very good initiative to cultivate this hobby in children and bird lovers.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bird-watching-contest-in-times-of-flu-team-kestral-wins-215863
22-02-2021||Patiala||114L digital transactions for PSPCL bill payment||Power consumers in Punjab are now adopting digital modes for the payment of their electricity bills, resulting in the collection of about Rs15,950-crore revenue from 114 lakh digital transactions from April 2020 to January 2021. This was stated by CMD of PSPCL A Venu Prasad.Prasad said the digital payment system had led to a reduction in the rush at the cash counters. “This reveals confidence of consumers in the effective implementation and success story of the digital payment system of the corporation,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/114l-digital-transactions-for-pspcl-bill-payment-215861
22-02-2021||Patiala||16 SBI staff members test +ve in Patiala||In a radom sampling, 16 employees of the State Bank of India (SBI) loan branch here tested positive for Covid-19. The Health Department said 11 employees tested positive on Friday and five today.The department said they conducted a random sampling at the SBI loan branch, Urban Estate. The employees who tested positive have been put in isolation and their close contacts asked to monitor their health constantly.The Civil Surgeon of Patiala, Dr Satinder Singh, said the SBI branch had closed the public dealing following the detection of positive cases. “We have been holding random sampling in government departments,” he added.Many SBI branches had been hot spots for Covid cases during the first wave last year.Dr Sumeet Singh, District Epidemiologist, said around 224 tests were conducted at SBI branches. They directed the employees to avoid the office if they had fever. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/16-sbi-staff-members-test-ve-in-patiala-215860
22-02-2021||---||Covid continues to haunt government schools||Patiala, February 21Eight schoolteachers of two government schools tested positive for Covid today. The Health Department has now ordered to shut both schools for the next 48 hours.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, said four staff members each of Government Senior Secondary School, Bhunerheri, and Government School, Mahinder Ganj in Rajpura, tested positive.Health officials said there was a surge in the number of staff and children coming to schools in February. Positive cases in government schools are increasing day by day.According to the Health Department, 46 staff members and two schoolchildren had fallen prey to the virus in February. Seven staff members of a government school in Sanour block had tested positive last week.Harinder Kaur, District Education Officer (DEO), said they had asked the staff to sanitise the schools immediately. “We have asked the staff of both schools to stop holding examinations physically,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-continues-to-haunt-government-schools-215859
22-02-2021||Chandigarh||3 mobile phone snatchers held||The police have arrested three members of a gang of mobile phone snatchers and recovered two cell phones, an airgun and a motorcycle used in the crime here on Sunday. The suspects have been identified as Bhagsi village residents Jatin and Sunil Kumar and Bhukhdi resident Akshay Kumar. In his complaint to the police on Saturday, Dera Bassi resident Pal Chand stated that three bike-borne youths attacked and snatched his phone near Grain Market around 9 pm. The police traced the suspects from the tower location of the phone and CCTV footage and nabbed the suspects on Sunday. The suspects were produced in a court, which sent them to three-day police remand. Dera Bassi SHO Satinder Singh said more cases of snatching were likely to be solved during their interrogation. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-mobile-phone-snatchers-held-215857
22-02-2021||Open house||Politicians, bureaucrats should get jab to build confidence||The Covid-19 vaccine has been getting a tepid response because of trust deficit. The onus is on senior doctors and medical officers, including the UT Administrator and his team, to come forward to receive the jab. There need not be any prior registration and health workers can simply visit the area to get the shot and opening up more channels for vaccination. An awareness campaign with counselling to override vaccine hesitancy must start immediately.SK Khosla, ChandigarhDeal with lack of trust, confusionIncreased vaccine hesitancy is due to the confusion among people regarding efficiency and safety for public acceptability. The Administration needs to tend to lack of trust among people towards the process and system. Lack of communication, rumours and conspiracy theories erode confidence. Communicating empathetically and proactively will build trust among public.Charu Malhotra, MohaliQUESTIONIn view of the increasing Covid cases in other states, should the UT Administration take pre-emptive measures to prevent a second surge in the city?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.comFear of side effectsSide effects and deaths being reported in some cases after getting the vaccine have instilled fear among the masses. The government needs to establish trust among the masses by creating awareness about the benefits of Covid jab and clearing misconceptions through door-to-door visits. Electronic and print media too can play an important role in creating awareness among the masses and regaining their confidence.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliVVIPs should take the shotAs per general observations, people have different doubts about the vaccine. They say the initiation of drive is a step taken by the government in haste without taking into consideration the reverse affects that may appear after a gap of time. Their most relevant question is why the VVIP or other dignitaries are not coming forward to take the shots? Therefore, notable persons should come forward to set an example.Surinder Paul Wadhwa, MohaliCreate awarenessEven though the city has educated population, hesitation for inoculation has been worrisome. The Administration must make people aware of getting themselves vaccinated.Wg Cdr Jasbir Singh Minhas (retd), MohaliCentre, states must work togetherDespite the fact that adverse events following vaccination have been negligible, the vaccine turnout has been low in the city. Hospitals have begun persuading senior doctors to get a shot to “build confidence” and in the government offices, not opting for a vaccine amounts to “dereliction in duty”. The declining trend in the new cases as well as the knowledge that an array of vaccines will be available in the months ahead further contribute to the temporary ‘hesitancy’ pervading hospitals now. There should also be greater coordination between the Centre and the states on sharing, investigating and publicising reasons for hesitancy.SANJAY CHOPRA , MOHALIAllay fears of Covid vaccine side effectsThe only reason for vaccine hesitancy is the fear of side effects. If surety regarding these was established, people would have come forward to get themselves vaccinated. A majority of the population are waiting for the results of the vaccination by observing the health of people who have already been vaccinated.Balbir Singh Batra, MohaliAwareness camps will help remove hesitancyVaccine hesitancy among people is because of the “infodemic” against the Covid vaccine. Because of the side effects such as as mild fever, pain on the site of jab, nausea, headache, breathlessness and chest pain being highlighted, a lot of anxiety is being created among healthcare workers and public at large. But actually these symptoms are a good sign, because it means the immune system of body is reacting to the vaccine and creating antibodies. Awareness campaigns must be launched to remove hesitancy.Anita K Tandon, KhararStill under trialThe cause of vaccine hesitancy is that the medicine is under trial and secondly, there are multiple medicines in the market and the efficacy of all of them is not up to the mark.Avinash goyalThose vaccinated may encourage othersMild reaction after vaccination is a good sign as the immune system of the body reacts to the vaccine creating antibodies. After initial hiccups and hesitancy, the mission will gain pace sooner than later. Motivation and wide education is the key to overcome it. Only those health workers already vaccinated, should be involved in the drive as they will motivate others with an example to shun hesitancy. The communication (text message) specifying time and place for the receiver to get vaccinated needs to be interactive so as to confirm compliance or fix some other suitable slot. Voluntary self-registration among the targeted category should be encouraged. There should be no cause for despair as vaccination against Covid-19 is set to be a regular feature of healthcare like other vital vaccinations.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaCompulsory vaccinationThere is a tendency among people to take Covid lightly. Authorities should make vaccination compulsory as per the procedure. There should be no relaxation on this issue keeping the health of public at large.Col TBS Bedi (retd)Apprehensions around safetyPeople may not be getting themselves vaccinated because it is not mandatory and since positivity rate has come down, they do not feel an immediate need for the vaccine. A lot of apprehensions also surround the safety of the vaccine. The authorities should hold counseling sessions. Employees who have received vaccine should share their experiences.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaComplete info neededThe information on Covid-19 vaccination is insufficient. The authorities need to clean the air on the subject because no one wants to put his/her life at risk. Everyone must take primary safety measures to be safe and healthy as the virus still exists.Moti BhatejaA preventive measureThe indifferent attitude of people residing in the UT may be the reason behind their extant hesitancy towards the Covid vaccine. People need to know that Covid vaccine is meant purely for some preventive purposes and safety alone can save us from its dreaded clutches.Kumar Gupt, PanchkulaUse schools, collegesTill date, adverse events have not been reported. People should be told about the benefit of vaccination. For making the drive a success, open spaces at schools, colleges and community centres should be utilised.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliResponsible sections need to come forwardMost of the stage I and stage II class of beneficiaries are hesitant to come forward for the Covid-19 vaccination. Whereas, they being the responsible class, are not only expected to get themselves vaccinated as per the protocol, but also need to play a bigger role to encourage general public in this regard.Hardeep Singh SlaichShare data with publicThe first and the foremost reason for hesitancy regarding Covid-19 vaccine is lack of awareness among people. There must be a curb on rumours at all social media platforms. The print and the digital media can play a decisive role in such a situation. The data regarding the number of people getting the shots can be shared with the public.Bir Devinder Singh BediMisgivings a hindranceResponse from beneficiaries is lukewarm. It is mainly so because the misgivings about the efficacy and safety of vaccine still persist. Not much was ideally done to instill confidence about the same, even by experts and leaders by setting an example by taking the shots themselves, as was done in Delhi by the AIIMS director himself, to allay the fears about the safety.SC Luthra, ChandigarhEncourage with incentivesThe hesitation is due to fear because our prominent political leaders and bureaucrats have not taken the initiative to get vaccinated first. People must be encouraged by certain incentives.Capt Amar JeetFocus on positive newsIt is sad that people have preferred to ignore the positive news regarding vaccine from across the globe. There is certainly some inertia in the human minds. Better to make it compulsoryNPS Sohal, Chandigarh.Break mythsApprehensions among healthcare workers about the vaccine is giving a wrong impression to the public who are to be vaccinated next. The reason behind the low turnout is myths about the vaccine and the fear of side effects. To overcome hesitancy, the administration can take steps such as conducting webinars, putting billboards in public places, giving advertisements in newspapers and holding awareness campaigns, physical as well as through the social media.Mehak Taneja, ChandigarhMedia coverage also to blameIt is mainly because of the trust deficit created by media coverage of the vaccine. It was reported that trials were not completed and there were some reactions after vaccination.Bharat Bhushan SharmaA big challengeVaccine hesitancy amid the Covid vaccination programme is not a new phenomenon as such hesitancies have existed in the past as well. There is a positive relationship between education and vaccine hesitancy. Educated people are less likely to be vaccine-hesitant. Governments, public health officials and advocacy groups must build vaccine literacy so that the public accepts immunisation soon.Manjinder Kaur, Manali, Himachal PradeshAuthorities must dispel fearsThe high incidence of hesitancy for the Covid vaccine is because of the varied apprehensions regarding the vaccine. The urgency in which vaccination was started questions its credibility. The new Covid-19 strains found lately also question its effectiveness. The rumoured side effects cause fear among public. Also, the fact that cases are on a sharp decline, questions its need. The authorities must sensitise people to the credibility, effectiveness, safety and the need for the vaccine.Simran Sidhu, ChandigarhPeople want to see results firstThe Covid vaccine hesitancy in Chandigarh is over 60 per cent. The main reason for such high indecisiveness is that these vaccines are new and people want to know how it works on others. The other aspect is that people are worried about the side effects in the wake of some cases reported across India.Adish Sood, AmlohApprehensions about efficacyWe are not sure whether the vaccine will really take care of the most vulnerable sections of society such as elderly people and those with comorbidities. Another apprehension is regarding the quantum of side effects, as every person’s body reacts uniquely to any foreign chemical. The government has to come out with assurances on the safety and efficacy of these new vaccines.Anil Kumar Yadav, Chandigarh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/politicians-bureaucrats-should-get-jab-to-build-confidence-215855
22-02-2021||---||Education Department forms 3-member panel||Panchkula, February 21Taking cognisance of weevil-infested rice received by a student’s parent under the Mid-Day Meal ration scheme, the Education Department today formed a three-member committee and asked it to submit its report on Wednesday.Earlier in the day, a team comprising of Sushil Kumar, Joint Director of the Education Department, Sanjeev Kumar of Mid-Day Meal scheme, and Nirupama, Deputy District Education Officer, visited Government Model Primary School in Sector 17 to take stock of the matter.The team reportedly also inquired the school staff as well as the complainant about the matter. It also instructed the staff to stop distribution of “contaminated stock of dry ration”.Nirupama, Deputy DEO, Panchkula, said: “The staff members generally ensure quality and cleanliness in dry ration while its distribution to parents under the Mid-Day Meal scheme. We will hold an inquiry into the matter to know what went wrong this time.”The school administration received the dry ration on February 17 and a WhatsApp message for its collection was delivered in guardian/parents’ group the very next day.On February 19, the school had begun distribution of the ration to parents.On February 20, Narender, a parent from Rajiv Colony, whose children studies in the school, approached the school and submitted a complaint about weevils found in the ration. Not happy with the school response, Narender subsequently also filed a police complaint.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/education-department-forms-3-member-panel-215826
22-02-2021||Chandigarh||Interviews for 81 PGI faculty posts conclude||The PGI’s Permanent Selection Committee successfully concluded interviews of potential candidates for recruitment to various faculty posts.PGI Director Prof Jagat Ram said a total of 994 applications were received for 81 posts advertised for faculty positions. Out of the total applicants, 918 candidates were called for interviews. A total of 701 candidates had been interviewed in three stages from December 2020 onwards. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/interviews-for-81-pgi-faculty-posts-conclude-215825
22-02-2021||---||Youngsters protest farm laws near Elante mall||Chandigarh, February 21Young members of the local Nojawan Kisan Ekta staged a protest against the agro-market laws, outside the Elante mall today. Dev Talwar, who organised the protest along with Gurpreet Singh Saini, said the mall became their choice of protest venue because it receives heavy footfall on weekends.“We want to amplify the farmers demand for revoking the agro-market farm laws. As a large number of people visit the mall on weekend, it became an obvious choice,” said Talwar. Narinder Kaur, one of the protesters said: “My parents have been going to Singhu and other borders near Delhi. So, I come here to voice farmers’ concerns.”Visitors to the mall joined the protesters in raising slogans against the farm laws. “I came here to shop, but I’m stopping here and protesting because I support farmers,” said Prince Singh, who drove to the mall from Haryana’s Shahbad.Another visitor, Manoj Kumar, a city resident and owner of Raj Travels, said: “I may not be a farmer, but I am a businessperson and I understand how monopolisation of agriculture market is being done. I’ve studied the Essential Commodities Act and it will effect even us, regular people. That’s why I’m here. I support them,” He said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youngsters-protest-farm-laws-near-elante-mall-215819
22-02-2021||---||Chandigarh police vaccine coverage only 8 pc||Chandigarh, February 21Vaccine hesitancy among the frontline workers has been even poorer than the healthcare workers as the total coverage to date stands at 16 per cent.A high incidence of hesitancy has been observed among the employees of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (Municipal Corporation) and the Chandigarh Police Department with only 1.35 per cent and 8 per cent vaccine coverage respectively.Similarly, the vaccine coverage of the employees of the Department of Social Welfare has been only 10 per cent so far. However, the registered beneficiaries of the CRPF and the ITBP have shown good response to vaccination with a coverage of 56 per cent and 82 per cent, respectively.A UT police officer, requesting anonymity, said: “The common concern among us is the fear of any side effect. Besides, there are hardly any cases of Covid-19, so where is the need for the vaccine?”The UT Adviser, Manoj Parida, said: “Our success in controlling Covid cases has led to a failure in popularising vaccination. The absence of a scare of corona infection has caused casual attitude towards vaccination. Had the vaccine been introduced at the time when infection was at its peak, there would have been a huge demand rush for vaccination. We are conducting doubts sessions to address the queries of the frontline workers to enhance vaccine coverage.”There are 23,584 frontline workers in Chandigarh, of whom 3,646 (16 per cent) have been vaccinated. The Health Ministry has advised the states and UTs that all frontline workers must be scheduled for vaccination at least once by March 1.All frontline workers will be given the opportunity of mop-up rounds by March 6.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-police-vaccine-coverage-only-8-pc-215818
22-02-2021||---||Survey through drone in Mohali villages soon||Tribune News ServiceMohali, February 21After the Punjab Cabinet approved implementation of mission “lal lakir”, the Mohali administration will soon carry out a survey through drone to facilitate villagers to monetise property rights.At present, the Revenue Department does not have the record of properties of villagers. As a result, thousands of households within the ‘lal dora’ of villages were at a disadvantage when it comes to monetising or realising the real value of their property. Under the new scheme, the villagers will be able to avail of various benefits of common lands within the “lal lakir” such as ponds, common gathering areas and even passages and streets.Divulging details, Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the number of actual beneficiaries was not known as the Revenue Department does not have the record of properties owned by people in villages. He said a survey would be conducted using drones to prepare the record of properties within the “lal dora”. This would also enable mapping of land, households, habitation and all other areas falling within the “lal dora”. The common land within the “lal lakir” such as ponds, common gathering areas and even passages and streets, which were facing encroachments, would now be protected.It is pertinent to mention here that allotment of encroached lands to marginal farmers would be done on the basis of rational criteria by sale of land at a predetermined price. This would ensure a fair balance for occupants who have been in possession since long and for the government to get its due revenue in respect of the unauthorised occupation of government lands and also settle unnecessary pending litigation.The eligible person under the Act would apply to the Allotment Commissioner and the allotment letter would be issued on payment of 25 per cent of the total cost and the rest of the 75 per cent payment would have to be paid in lump sum or in six equated instalments. In case of default in payment of instalments, the payment would be allowed to be made along with 6 per cent interest on delayed payment within three months of the final payment due. After the payment of the entire sum, the conveyance deed would be registered in the name of the farmer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/survey-through-drone-in-mohali-villages-soon-215817
22-02-2021||Chandigarh||Sikhlens arts festival: 24 movies screened, world premier for three||Themes of kirtan, Sikh identity and seva dominated the second Sikhlens Sikh Arts and Film Festival at Tagore Theatre today.While 24 films that brought forward tenets of Sikhism being observed in different parts of the world were the highlight, a photo exhibition, Charan Chhoh Punjab, by Vinod Chauhan that traced journey of Guru Nanak Dev in 120 frames engaged the visitors.The festival saw three world premieres for films, “Art Finds Its Way”, “Kites: Beyond Boundaries”, “Silver Lining: The Journey of Rashpal Singh”, directed by Ojaswwee Sharma, India Head Sikhlens, met rousing response. “Kite flying is the best natural therapy,” said elated Devinder Pal Singh, of “Kites: Beyond Boundaries”. Spectators were glued to Aman Singh Gulati, aka Almond Singh’s, works, recipient of many world records making the largest and the smallest art works culled from life. Sikh gurus and Pulwama martyrs, Aman picks up themes from life. “It’s so amazing to have our film seen and loved by so many people, I am happy that I could make my parents proud,” he shared. Human rights activist Dhananjay Chauhan took to stage to perform amongst others.Dr Param Preet Ghuman released her debut book of poetry, “Safar”. The collection has 47 poems that touch different aspects of life. “Safar is a metaphor for life, the poem with the same title a reflection on how life unfolds.” In the medicine profession for the past three decades, Dr Ghuman believes that more and more women must engage in self-expression that’s generally denied to them.Varied themes, “Knitted Beliefs”, story of Narayanpura, a neighbourhood in Karachi where Hindus, Muslims, Christians and Sikhs live together in harmony, to “The Sardar of Conde-Sur-Vire”, first elected Sikh in France, and “The Cheez that Binds Us”, about Punjabi Sikhs in Northern Italy, different stories from across the world entertained the audience. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sikhlens-arts-festival-24-movies-screened-world-premier-for-three-215816
22-02-2021||Chandigarh||74-yr-old tailor dies as auto hits scooter||A 74-year-old Activa rider, a tailor, was killed in a road accident in the city. According to the police, complainant Azmat Ali, a resident of Sector 51, reported that the scooter, being driven by his father Shaukat Ali, was hit by an auto at the Sector 44/45/50/51 light point on February 19.He was injured and rushed to the GMCH-32, where he later succumbed to his injuries during treatment. The auto was being driven by Bharat Bhushan, a resident of Kishangarh village. The police have registered a case against the auto driver at the Sector 49 police station. He was arrested and later released on bail. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/74-yr-old-tailor-dies-as-auto-hits-scooter-215815
22-02-2021||Panchkula||9 fresh cases  in Panchkula||The district on Sunday reported nine fresh cases of Covid, taking the overall tally to 10,741. The toll remained 148. While 10,482 patients have recovered from the disease so far, 111 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 97.58 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/9-fresh-cases-in-panchkula-215814
22-02-2021||Mohali||13 test positive in Mohali district||Thirteen new cases of Covid-19 surfaced during the past 24 hours taking the district tally to 19,939. Meanwhile, 14 patients were cured. No new fatality was reported from the district till Sunday evening. Among the new cases, 10 came from Mohali (urban) while one case came from Kharar and two from Dhakoli. So far, the district has witnessed 19,172 recoveries. There are 385 active cases with 382 deaths in the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/13-test-positive-in-mohali-district-215813
22-02-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 28 fresh cases of Covid||With 28 new Covid cases, the UT tally has reached 21,425. The death toll stands at 349. As many as 20,890 patients have recovered from the virus. There are now 186 active cases.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-28-fresh-cases-of-covid-215812
22-02-2021||---||Massive fire breaks out at Dadu Majra dumping ground||Chandigarh, February 21A massive fire broke out at the dumping ground in Dadu Majra here this afternoon.An official of the Fire Department said they received a call around 3 pm about a fire in the dumping ground and rushed nearly five fire tenders to the spot to douse the flames.He said even a JCB machine was pressed into service. The official said the cause of the fire was yet to be ascertained.The official said they were trying to control the fire and it would require a nightlong operation to bring the situation under control.Due to the burning of the waste material, residents of the area faced breathing issues and also complained of foul smell.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/massive-fire-breaks-out-at-dadu-majra-dumping-ground-215811
22-02-2021||---||Congress to field 50% new faces, youth in Chandigarh MC elections||Chandigarh, February 21After a thumping victory in Mohali, the Congress is now focusing on the Municipal Corporation (MC) elections in Chandigarh. The party has decided to field new faces, especially youth, in the elections, slated to be held later this year, to take on the ruling BJP.After formally taking over as the president of the Chandigarh Congress, Subhash Chawla said they all would have to work hard to win all 35 seats in the MC elections. Hardworking workers would be rewarded accordingly, he said.Senior members would have their own place in the party, but nearly 50 per cent of the party ticket would be given to the youth and new faces in the MC elections, he said.On February 9, the Congress had appointed Subhash Chawla, a former Mayor of Chandigarh, as the new president of the Chandigarh Territorial Congress Committee, replacing Pradeep Chhabra.During the induction ceremony, former Uttarakhand Chief Minister and All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary and in-charge, Punjab and Chandigarh Congress, Harish Rawat and AICC treasurer Pawan Bansal and Punjab Cabinet Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu were present.Presiding over the function, Rawat said he was confident that the new city president of the party would take everyone along. Congratulating Chandigarh Congress workers for the victory in the civic elections in Punjab, Rawat called upon the Chandigarh Congress that such a performance should be repeated in the MC elections in Chandigarh. “The Modi government is indulging in cruelty to farmers, due to which over 300 farmers have died,” he said.He asked Chawla to appoint office-bearers of the local body in the next 15 days and those of the district and block level within 25 days and strengthen the party at the booth level in the next two months. He said the BJP was trying to destroy the “remarkable work done by the Congress” in the field of agriculture and other sectors. “Now, people have the opportunity to avenge the wrong done by the BJP in the forthcoming MC elections,” he said.Rawat said he presented a bouquet of roses with thorns to the newly appointed president so that he could take out the thorns from the lives of the party workers and showered them with flowers.Advising Chawla, Bansal said now he had the responsibility of winning the Municipal Corporation elections and for this he would have to take everyone along.He said the policies of the Congress should reach the people. He said the excise duty on petrol and diesel was so high that their rates were continuously increasing.In his address, Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the success achieved by the Congress in the Punjab civic body elections would be repeated in the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation elections.Expressing full support to Chawla, former Chandigarh Congress president Pradeep Chhabra said with the blessings of senior leaders, he had strengthened the party for six years and would continue to take the party forward.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-to-field-50-new-faces-youth-in-chandigarh-mc-elections-215810
22-02-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh mulls asking MC to review resolution on water rate revision||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 21The wait to get relief from the recently hiked water tariff is likely to get longer in the city, with the UT Administration mulling over sending back a resolution passed by the Municipal Corporation (MC) over revision of rates to the civic body for reconsideration.Facing criticism from residents over three-fold increase in the water tariff after the UT Administration issued a notification in this regard on September 11 last year, the BJP-ruled MC had brought an agenda in the House to slash the rates as the civic body elections are slated to be held in November-December this year. The agenda was approved by the House on October 29. It was then sent to the Administration for the final approval.The resolution passed in the House asked for continuation of the rates effective before the new rates were notified by the Administration on September 11. However, till a new notification is issued by the UT Administration to this effect, the rates increased in September would remain in force.A senior official of the UT Administration said the rates were last revised in 2011 and they were going to send the resolution back to the civic body for reconsideration.According to the notification issued by the Administration, the increase in water rates is between 50 per cent and 200 per cent depending upon the category of user and the consumption level. In addition to the tariff, water cess of Rs20 per month per connection is charged for maintenance of parks and green belts.The rates were last revised in 2011. The proposal for further hike was first mooted in 2014. Another attempt was made in 2018, but the MC House had rejected it.Hitesh Puri of the Chandigarh Residents’ Association Welfare Federation said there was a huge resentment among residents over the increase in the water rates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mulls-asking-mc-to-review-resolution-on-water-rate-revision-215764
22-02-2021||---||Now, Chandigarh’s heritage furniture to go under hammer Down Under||Chandigarh, February 21In yet another auction of heritage furniture from the city, a cabinet from the High Court has been listed for auction at Chippendale in Australia on March 2.“The cabinet with three doors and two drawers and ‘open shelving to the reverse’, which is likely to fetch nearly Rs4.57 lakh to Rs6.85 lakh, will be auctioned by Shapiro on March 2,” said Ajay Jagga, member, Heritage Protection Cell, Chandigarh.Similar heritage items from the city will be auctioned in the USA and Paris on February 25 and 27, respectively.An armchair was likely to fetch nearly Rs3.63 lakh to Rs5.09 lakh in the auction in the USA on February 25 and five heritage items designed by Pierre Jeanneret would be auctioned in Paris on February 27, he said.He said a pair of stools, a pair of chairs, easy chairs, a desk with a rectangular top upholstered in green leather and a dining table were likely to be sold for nearly Rs33.87 lakh in the auction in Paris.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-chandigarhs-heritage-furniture-to-go-under-hammer-down-under-215751
22-02-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Race for mayoral posts begins in Mohali||Tribune News ServiceMohali, February 21With the Congress gaining a three-fourths majority in the Mohali Municipal Corporation elections, the race for the posts of Mayor, Senior Deputy Mayor and Deputy Mayor has started.Preparations have already begun for the swearing-in of councillors. The notification in this regard is expected to be issued by the Local Government Department tomorrow. The process of convening an election meeting is set to begin and is expected to be completed in a week.Even though no senior leader is ready to discuss about it, speculations are rife. Though those who matter in the Congress say that the candidates for the posts of Mayor, Senior Deputy Mayor and Deputy Mayor are to be decided by the party high command, it is a well-known fact that the final call in this regard will be taken by local MLA and Punjab Cabinet Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu and the party high command has to seal the choice.The first name in the race for the post of Mayor is that of Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu, younger brother of Balbir Singh Sidhu. His name came up for discussion even before the elections and according to political pundits, Amarjit Singh is likely to be the choice for the post of Mayor.Besides, former Senior Deputy Mayor Rishav Jain, former city council president Rajinder Singh Rana and Amrik Singh Somal, who defeated former Mayor Kulwant Singh to win the election of councillor for a third time, and Kuljit Singh Bedi, who also won the election for a third time, are in the race. The political pundits say if they do not get the seat of Mayor, two of them may be proposed for the posts of Senior Deputy Mayor and Deputy Mayor.Balbir Singh Sidhu said the Mayor would be chosen by the elected members of the MC and the decision in this regard would be taken after the notification for the swearing-in ceremony of the councillors was issued.Amarjit Singh Jiti Sidhu said he was not in any race and the decision in this regard would be taken by the party leadership.Former Senior Deputy Mayor and senior Congress leader Rishav Jain said he was not in the race for any post. He said he had first served as the senior vice-president of the Municipal Council and then as the Senior Deputy Mayor of the Municipal Corporation and this time too, he would fulfil all responsibilities given to him by the party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/race-for-mayoral-posts-begins-in-mohali-215742
