23-02-2021||Chandigarh||Samarvir Sahi golf championship begins today||The Chandigarh Golf Club will host the 21st edition of Samarvir Sahi Amateur Golf Championship from February 23 to 26.Sahi was a talented young golfer, who graduated from Albright College, USA, and was childhood friend of former international golfers Jeev Milkha Singh, Amandeep Johl and Harmeet Kahlon. Sahi died of Hodgkin’s Lymphoma in 1994. The tournament was instituted in 1996 by the Sahi family.The tourney got recognition from the Indian Golf Union (IGU) in 2000. A total of top 100 amateur golfers from all over the country take part in this championship. International golfers Anirban Lahari, Gaganjeet Bhullar, Khalin Joshi and Rashid Khan are some pat winners of this championship.“It’s an honour for the Chandigarh Golf Club to host this tournament. The course is in excellent condition and golfers will surely have a gala time playing here,” said Ravibir Singh, president, Chandigarh Golf Club.The announcement was made in attendance of Arvind Bajaj, captain, Dr GS Kochhar, vice-president, GS Bakshi, chairman, and Parmajit Singh, director, IGU. — TNS About the tourneySamarvir Sahi was a talented young golfer, who graduated from Albright College, USA, and was a childhood friend of former international golfers Jeev Milkha Singh, Amandeep Johl and Harmeet Kahlon. Sahi died of Hodgkin’s Lymphoma in 1994. The tournament was instituted in 1996 by the Sahi family in his memory.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/samarvir-sahi-golf-championship-begins-today-216148
23-02-2021||---||Aditya, Adhiraj shine with bat in St Joseph’s victory||Chandigarh, February 22 Aditya Sharma Ladoo (72) and Adhiraj Kurl (55) raised a 101-run partnership to help St Joseph’s Cricket Nursery defeat AKSIPS School, Sector 41, by seven wickets in the final of Covid Fighters U-13 Cricket Tournament. Batting first, AKSIPS lads posted 253 runs before getting all-out in 39.3 overs. Sujay Rohila posted unbeaten 95 runs, while Yamuna Singh (65) and Harveer (25) were other scorers for the side. Ritvik claimed 2/22 for the bowling side. In reply, St Joseph’s boys posted 256/3 in 38.1 overs. Ladoo and Kurl were the main scorers in the team’s win. Harnoor Singh Nanda also remained unbeaten for 55 runs. Yamuna Singh claimed two wickets for the bowling side. Abhaypratap was named the best batsman of the tournament, while Rohila was name the Man of the Match. Harshit Kapoor (best wicketkeeper), Adhiraj Kurl (best fielder), Harnoor Singh Nanda (Man of the Series) and Ladoo (best bowler) were other best performers for the side.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aditya-adhiraj-shine-with-bat-in-st-josephs-victory-216152
23-02-2021||Chandigarh||Livewire Coaching Centre claim title||Livewire Coaching Centre (LWCC) defeated Godrej by 96 runs in the final of My India One India T20 Cricket Tournament today.Batting first, the LWCC posted 199/4 in 20 overs with the help of Harvinder Nain (107 off 56 balls), Dr Luthra (34), Harshul Vats (21) and Pankaj (17). Rahul claimed two wickets, while Sudhir and Saurabh took one wicket each.In reply, Godrej team was bowled out for 103 runs in 14.5 overs. Saurabh (27), Avi Kumar (20) and Kunal (19) were the main scorers for the team. Vats took three wickets, while Luthra and Shubham claimed two wickets each. Kamal, Pankaj and Anand also took one wicket each.Nain was named the Man of the Match. Other winners included Pankaj Kumar (best bowler), Pankaj Kumar (best fielder), Harshul Vats (best batsman), Luthra (best all-rounder), Rahul Kapani (best wicketkeeper) and Nain (Man of the Tournament). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/livewire-coaching-centre-claim-title-216153
23-02-2021||---||Snehit slays top seeds to enter semis||Panchkula, February 22At the UTT 82nd National Table Tennis National TT C'ships being held at Tau Devi Lal Stadium, Sector 3, SFR Snehit, 20, had a dream run to reach the semifinals.The Telangana boy first ousted defending champion Harmeet Desai 4-0 and then accounted for sixth seeded Sushmit Sriram 4-1 in the quarterfinals.Down 0-1, he was looking for a turning point after managing to deuce. The umpire reversed a wrong call to award the point to Snehit that put him 11-10 up, and from there the Telangana boy took control against Sriram. Snehit logged 8-11 12-10 11-9 11-8 11-3 over Sriram.In other quarterfinal matches, top-seed A Sharath Kamal toyed with Anothny Amalraj to win 4-1. Kamal defeated Anthony Amalraj 11-8 11-3 5-11 13-11 11-2. G Sathiyan won his tie against Sanil Shetty 11-9 11-9 11-13 11-8 11-6 whereas Manav Thakkar blanked Ronit Bhanja 11-7 12-10 10-12 12-10 11-6.Earlier, in the pre-quarterfinals, Kamal defeated Sougata Sarkar 7-11 11-7 11-9 9-11 11-9 11-5, Amalraj outplayed Soumyajit Ghosh 9-11 12-10 9-11 11-8 11-8 11-5, Ronit Bhanja defeated Sudhanshu Grover 13-11 7-11 6-11 11-7 9-11 11-8 15-13, Thakkar ousted Nitin Thiruvengadam 11-9 8-11 11-5 11-9 11-5 and Snehit defeated Desai 11-9 11-7 11-9 11-5. Sriram defeated Arjun Ghosh 6-11 11-8 8-11 8-11 12-10 11-9 11-9, Shetty outplayed Sarthak Gandhi 11-4 7-11 8-11 11-7 11-8 11-7 and Sathiyan defeated Manush Shah 11-8 12-14 11-9 11-8 13-11 in other matches.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/snehit-slays-top-seeds-to-enter-semis-216155
23-02-2021||Chandigarh||Foetus found at Mauli Jagran||Donation box at shrine stolenChandigarh: Unknown persons stole a donation box from a gurdwara in Sector 63 on the intervening night of February 20 and 21. Complainant Rupinder Singh reported that the suspect entered the gurdwara after breaking the lock of the main door. The police have registered a case at the Sector 36 police station. TNS61K take online exam on Day 8Chandigarh: Around 61,000 students of undergraduate/ postgraduate/other professional courses, including USOL/private candidates, appeared on Day 8 of the online examination, said Dr Jagat Bhushan, Controller of Examination. He said 157 examinations were conducted on Monday. TNSNational Road Safety WeekChandigarh: The 32nd National Road Safety Week was observed by the faculty of Engineering & Applied Sciences and IEEE student branch at Desh Bhagat University. The programme covered various topics, including see me save me -making cycles visible on roads, school bus safety, making India a black spot-free nation and respect red light. Harpreet Singh, Director, Global Alliance of NGOs, addressed the students. Dr DM Mulay, member of the National Human Rights Commission, congratulated the organisers for spreading awareness on road safety. Chancellor Dr Zora Singh and Pro-Chancellor Dr Tejinder Kaur laid stress on following road safety rules. TNSFencing squad announcedPanchkula: The District Fencing Association, Panchkula, selected a 29-member squad for participating in the Haryana State Fencing Championship. The District Fencing Championship concluded recently at New India Senior Secondary School, Sector 15. The squad members are (boys’ U-20) Swayam, Mayank (epee), Vishavjeet, Nitish, Harpreet (sabre); (girls’ U-20) Shiviya, Tanu, Savera, Himanshi (foil), Anushka, Harshita, Ananya, Kashish (epee), Lavanya, Mannat, Ritika, Ashima (sabre); (men’s senior) Vishavjeet, Nitish; (women’s senior) Shiviya, Himanshi, Tanu (foil), Anushka, Harshita, Kunjan (epee) and Lavanya, Harsh, Mannat, Ashima (sabre). TNSPanchkula dist win skating goldPanchkula: The Panchkula district team won gold medal in the boys’ quad event during the 34th Haryana Roller Skating Championship at Blue Bird High School, Sector 16. Yamunanagar claimed silver medal and Kurukshetra won bronze. In the boys’ inline event, Gurugram, Panchkula and Sirsa claimed first three positions, respectively. The championship was organised by the Haryana Roller Skating Association and hosted by the District Roller Skating Association, Panchkula. TNSDumping garbage in open: 80 finedPatiala: The Municipal Corporation has started issuing challans and collecting fine for dumping garbage in the open. Officials said 80 challans had been issued to those caught dumping garbage on the roadside. The officials visited various areas of the city, including the Gur Mandi and market areas near the Sanauri Gate. Sanjeev Kumar Sharma, Mayor, said: “As per the recent notification of the Punjab Government, we are supposed to collect Rs1,000 as fine for disposal of garbage in the open by households and shops, and Rs5,000 for dumping waste in drains.” He said cases of those who failed to pay the fine would be decided at the district courts. TNSTarn Taran man held with vialsLalru: The police have arrested a Tarn Taran resident and recovered 550 injections of buprenophine and 560 vials of a narcotic substance from him. The police said the suspect, identified as Karan Kumar, used to bring injections from Saharanpur and sell those at Tarn Taran. He was produced in the Dera Bassi court, which sent him to two-day police remand. TNSMan arrested under arms actMohali: The police have arrested a Jalandhar resident, Tarun Kumar, with two country-made pistols, one live round and a. 32-bore pistol magazine at a checkpost near the Balongi barrier. The police said Tarun used to supply weapons for a Bhiwani resident, Deepak, alias Tinu, who was a key member of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang. The police have booked Deepak in the case too although he is presently in jail. TNS12 booked on assault chargeMohali: Twelve residents of Daun Majra have been booked after an incident of road rage turned ugly, resulting in an assault on a Kharar resident, Surinder Singh, and his nephew Varinder Singh at Daun Majra on Sunday. On the statement of the complainant, the police have registered a case of assault against Bhupinder Singh, Gola Singh, Shyam Singh, Diljeet Singh, Maninder Singh and others at the Sadar Kharar police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/foetus-found-at-mauli-jagran-216174
23-02-2021||Chandigarh||City Congress appoints four spokespersons||The Congress on Monday appointed four new spokespersons of its city unit. Former Chief Minister of Uttarakhand and incharge of Punjab and  Chandigarh Harish Rawat appointed them with the approval of Chandigarh Congress president Subhash Chawla. Harmohinder Singh Lucky is the chief spokesperson for the party’s city unit while councillors Gurbax Rawat, Satish Kainth  and former Youth Congress president Harmail Kesri are spokespersons. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/city-congress-appoints-four-spokespersons-216158
23-02-2021||Mohali||Punjab CM: Siswan to be developed as world-class tourist destination||To promote Siswan as a prime and preferred ecotourism destination, Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh released various promotional and informational material, including brochures, pamphlets and movie teasers, at his office today.The Chief Minister, who also launched the logo of Siswan Community Reserve, said Siswan would be developed as a world-class tourist destination. He said keeping in mind the immense tourism potential of the area, various initiatives had been taken up in the area. Primarily, visitor amenities like nature interpretation centre, thematic gates and signage, food court, washroom facilities, nature trails and jungle safari would be provided. The conservation issues like introduction of spotted deer, wild hares and other species, which once thrived in the area but have reduced in numbers through the years, were also being addressed, he added.Capt Amarinder Singh said the development of tourist-friendly infrastructure and amenities coupled with promotional activities would lead to an increase in footfall, which would subsequently benefit the local community by way of additional job creation and various income-generating activities. He also appreciated the successful organisation of the Punjab Bird Festival. — TNSTreat for nature loversSituated in the foothills of the Shivaliks, Siswan has dense forests, pristine water and rich biodiversity making it a perfect destination for nature lovers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-cm-siswan-to-be-developed-as-world-class-tourist-destination-216159
23-02-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Panjab University sportspersons to knock at court’s door||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 22Fed up with false assurances, hundreds of Panjab University (PU) sportspersons have now decided to knock at court’s door for getting cash awards for year 2019.In a major embarrassment to the institution, which won last two editions of the prestigious Maulana Abul Kalam Azad (MAKA) Trophy, its sportspersons have not received their cash awards for bringing laurels in international, national, north inter-universities, all-India inter-universities and state championships. Hundreds of players have now sent a legal notice to the authorities, demanding immediate release of the funds.In September 2020, the former Director Sports (PU) had ensured to have sufficient funds for releasing the cash awards. However, no development has been made to honour the players. Not only the winners, but also the players, who participated in the 30th Summer Universiade (University) Games in Napoli (Italy), are also waiting for the entitled reimbursements since 2019.VR Sinha, Dean, University Instructions, (DUI), Panjab University, who is having an additional charge of Director Sports, PU, was unavailable to comment on the issue. The Directorate of Sports, PU, organises its annual prize distribution function in the last week of March every year. However, due to the countrywide lockdown, the authorities did not organise the event in 2020. Despite having details of sportspersons, the authorities also did not bother to transfer the prize money directly into the accounts of beneficiaries.“The university has won back-to-back MAKA Trophy and is behaving in such a cruel manner with its players. We have already sent a legal notice to all officials concerned and awaiting response,” said a player.Meanwhile, other players, who participated in the World University event, said: “My family took loan to send me to Italy. I was expecting reimbursement soon after returning here. Till date, I have not received a single penny. My family is already under debt.”“The untimely demise of former Director Sports has also hit our players’ hope badly. The authorities, who are least bothered about running sports administration, are unable to take decisions. There should have been a full-time appointment of an experienced person to run this department. This is no way to treat the players, who deserve cash awards as per the PU constitution,” said a coach.Notably, the Panjab University Sports Committee, which gets its reimbursements for attending meetings in Chandigarh, is not even bothered to raise the issue with the PU Vice –Chancellor.“The students went to meet the PU Vice-Chancellor today, but he was not available. The DUI is also not meeting them as he has other work to do. Where should the players go? There should be a way to solve their problem. Giving false assurances is no solution for this,” said another coach.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-sportspersons-to-knock-at-courts-door-216146
23-02-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Corruption is worse than prostitution, says CBI court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 22Corruption is worse than prostitution, said the CBI Special court while awarding four-year rigorous imprisonment (RI) to Manmohan Gilhotra, a former enforcement officer of the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO), Sector 17, in a bribery case.Dr Sushil Kumar Garg, Special Judge, CBI court, pronounced the judgment on Monday after finding Gilhotra guilty of committing the offences punishable under Sections 7 and 13 (2) read with Section 13 (1) (d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988.The CBI court, in the order, said: “Corruption is worse than prostitution. The latter might endanger the morals of an individual but the former invariably endangers the morals of the entire country. Corruption is paid by the poor. There are still those of us who work to overcome corruption and believe it to be possible. The world will not be destroyed by those who do evil, but by those who watch them without doing anything.”Gilhotra was arrested by the CBI for allegedly taking a bribe of Rs15,000 from a private company official at Baltana in Zirakpur in 2015.The CBI acted on a complaint received from an official of a private company, Cloudberry Technologies Private Limited, Sector 7, Madhya Marg, Chandigarh. The chief administrative officer of the company, in his complaint, alleged that he was being threatened by the Enforcement Officer for conducting raids on his office. The company was issued a show-cause notice by the PF Department for not depositing the amount. The accused allegedly called the complainant to discuss the issue.The complainant alleged that when he met the accused, he allegedly demanded Rs15,000 in lieu of settling the matter. After registering a complaint, the CBI began the investigation.Gilhotra was caught red-handed and the bribe amount of Rs15,000 was recovered from his pocket on the main road between Baltana and Zirakpur.The counsel of the accused urged the court for a lenient view citing personal reasons and past record of the accused, but public prosecutor KP Singh vehemently argued that in order to check rampant corruption in public life, it was need of the hour to give exemplary punishment to the public servant, who is found to be indulged in corrupt practices. Taking a lenient view in such matters sends a wrong message to the undesirable elements in society. Therefore, stringent and deterrent punishment may be imposed upon the accused.After hearing the arguments, Judge Dr Sushil Kumar Garg said any softness in this regard could produce an undesirable result.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/corruption-is-worse-than-prostitution-says-cbi-court-216154
23-02-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||AAP protests rising fuel prices||On a call given by the state unit of AAP, the district unit of the party, led by Jaswinder Singh Balahra, district president, today staged a dharna against the Modi government. The protesters demanded the rollback of the hike in fuel prices. All top leaders of AAP, including NS Tiwana, Rashpinder Singh, Ajay Libra, Lakhbr Singh Rai and Amrinder Singh Mandofal, took part in the protest and later submitted a memorandum to the DC.   The leaders said the Modi government was profiteering from the miseries of people by repeatedly increasing excise duty on petrol and diesel. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aap-protests-rising-fuel-prices-216149
23-02-2021||---||20 PhD students at Panjab University allotted hostels||Chandigarh, February 22  Panjab University has allotted hostel rooms to around 20 PhD students on the condition of single occupancy on the first day of hostel allotment today. Also, the exit semester students of Nuclear Medicine, Medical Physics, MDS and MPharma are allowed to stay in hostels, said Dr Sukhbir Kaur, Dean, Student Welfare (Women).  She said the students had been allotted hostels as per the location of their departments. “Students having their departments on the Sector 14 campus have been allotted hostels on the same campus (Sector 14) while those of the Sector 25 campus have been allotted hostels in the south campus. At present, the mess of Girls Hostel No. 4 is working which will cater to the Sector 14 campus girls’ hostels. The mess of Boys Hostel No. 6 is catering to all boys’ hostels on the PU campus. All SOPs related to Covid will be strictly followed,” said Sukhbir.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/20-phd-students-at-panjab-university-allotted-hostels-216150
23-02-2021||---||Woman held on cheating charge released on bail||Chandigarh, February 22Additional Sessions Judge Rajesh Sharma has granted bail to Rashmi Negi, who was arrested on a charge of cheating.Terminder Singh, an advocate appearing for the accused, argued before the court that she had been falsely implicated in the case and she herself was a victim in the present case and had already filed complaints against some persons.Terminder claimed that the petitioner had handed over her mobile and all gazettes required to the police.The trial will take a long time and no fruitful purpose would be served by keeping the petitioner behind the bars. The police arrested Negi after registering an FIR on a complaint by some persons who alleged that she cheated them in the name of providing visas. They alleged that the accused neither returned the money nor their documents. The advocate claimed that the accused was herself cheated by some persons who took money for providing visas and committed forgery by sending fake visas for her clients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-held-on-cheating-charge-released-on-bail-216151
23-02-2021||Chandigarh||Vendors eat up walking space for visitors to Sector 22 market||Illegal vendors have encroached on pavements, parking lots and other open spaces at the Sector 22 market in front of the ISBT, Sector 17.Only registered vendors selling essentials such as tea were permitted here initially. Food stalls, mobile cover sellers and other vendors have gradually encroached on public spaces with no fear of law. With encroachers occupying spaces, little room has been left for visitors to walk. “They keep insisting visitors to buy their goods. It is sheer harassment. Vendor activities must be regulated here,” said Shaminder Singh, a visitor.A shopkeeper said: “When only essential vendors are allowed here, how come all sorts of vendors are operating? They have spoiled the whole market.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vendors-eat-up-walking-space-for-visitors-to-sector-22-market-216161
23-02-2021||---||Eco City-2: GMADA holds draw for 287 residential plots||Mohali, February 22The Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) today conducted a draw for allotting 287 residential plots at Eco City-2, New Chandigarh.The scheme, which was launched in December last year, offered residential plots in sizes of 200 sq yd, 300 sq yd, 400 sq yd, 450 sq yd, 500 sq yd, 1,000 sq yd and 2000 sq yd at the cost of Rs25,000 per sq yd. The draw was held at the community centre, Purab Premium Apartments, Sector 88.As many 4,819 applications were received for 289 plots, but draw was held for 287 plots as two plots were reserved under sports quota, but no one had applied for these. The list of successful candidates have been uploaded on the website of the authority, gmada.gov.in .Pavitar Singh, Estate officer, GMADA, said the successful applicants would have to submit their documents within one month and they would be issuing letters of intent (LoI) within three months. He said for the first time, the authority gave preference to citizens above the age of 60 and women applicants. He added that they had ensured that the plots were in proximity to Medicity where senior citizens could get immediate medical assistance. The plots would be located a few km away from the PGI, another advanced medical facility.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/eco-city-2-gmada-holds-draw-for-287-residential-plots-216162
23-02-2021||---||Board clears the air on dues list||Chandigarh, February 22 Regarding mismatch in actual payment made and dues list on the website, the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has clarified that there may be some cases where the allottees have deposited their dues but the same are not credited against the particular unit. The Board stated that it had happened mainly due to common mistakes made while filling challans such as using a challan different than the prescribed one for the particular payment, not mentioning some of the vital information, mentioning wrong information about the dwelling unit number, name of the scheme and allottee’s name, etc Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB, said: “In some cases, the possibility of mistakes on the part of the CHB or bank, at the time of data entry, cannot be ruled out. About Rs 112 crore was lying in the suspense account and after sincere efforts in the recent past, the CHB could identify payments of Rs 111 crore and the same has been credited against the particular units.” However, about Rs 1 crore was yet to be reconciled, he added. Many residents of Dhanas had alleged that they had paid the dues but the same were not reflected on the website of the CHB. Garg says to ensure that such problems are not repeated, a facility for online generation of challans for cash/cheque payments has been provided. The allottees who don’t want to make online payment may generate challans by visiting the website of the CHB and using the challan for making payment in any of the branch of the HDFC in the city.  The payments of CHB dues at the Sampark Centres are also being reflected in the account of an allottee instantly.  Allottees may deposit the dues after deducting the payments they have already made, and for the balance may submit an application for reconciliation with a photocopy of the payment proof. After necessary verification, the CHB records will be corrected and the dues lists rectified by corresponding payments. Interest charges will also be reduced as the credit will be given from the date when it was actually paid. Allottees will be provided an opportunity of hearing before taking any action against them for the pending dues, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/board-clears-the-air-on-dues-list-216163
23-02-2021||---||State should support, not loot, people: AAP||Mohali, February 22  The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today staged a protest against the Centre and the state government over the rising prices of fuel. Addressing the media, district AAP president Parminder Goldy said the pandemic had devastated people’s businesses around the world. He said while people were already suffering financially, the state government was imposing additional taxes on petrol and diesel to fill its coffers. Goldy said the state government was looting people by imposing taxes on fuel instead of supporting them.  The AAP leader said the increasing fuel prices would not only affect the common man but also the already burdened farmers. “Rising fuel prices will also impact the prices of daily necessities, which will further hit the poor. The Chief Minister of Punjab seems to be least bothered with the masses,” he added. District AAP secretary Parbhjot Kaur said Capt Amarinder Singh was not acting as the Congress or people’s Chief Minister, but the CM of the BJP under collusion with the Modi government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/state-should-support-not-loot-people-aap-216164
23-02-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||269 CHB properties to be auctioned in phases||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 22The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has prepared a list of residential and commercial properties to be auctioned after reducing the reserve price by nearly 10 per cent.An official said 269 properties, including 11 residential (leasehold), 108 residential (freehold) and 150 commercial (lease hold), would be put up for auction.These residential properties are in Sector 51, Sector 63, Sector 38-W, Sector 39, and Mani Majra. The commercial properties are located in Mani Majra, Sector 51, Sector 61 and Maloya.Reserve price cut by Nearly 10%The reserve price of an HIG (leasehold) flat in Sector 39 has been fixed at Rs1.05 crore while that of a three-bedroom (freehold) flat in Sector 63 at Rs86.24 lakh. These prices are 10% less in comparison to the reserve price last yearLast year, not even a single bidder expressed interest in the auction of CHB properties as the reserve price was too high.The properties to be auctioned include nearly 51 new flats in Sector 51. Several properties of the board, both commercial and residential, have been lying vacant in Mani Majra, Sector 45, 41, 47, 39, 38-West, 49 and 51 for quite a long time.For auction of the properties, the Board has fixed the reserve price of HIG flat (leasehold) in Sector 39 at Rs 1.05 crore. Similarly, the reserve price of a three-bedroom flat (freehold) in Sector 63 has been fixed at Rs 86.24 lakh, two-bedroom flat in Sector 51 has been fixed between Rs 81 lakh and Rs 84 lakh.The reserve price of one-bedroom flat has been fixed at Rs 39.38 lakh and EWS flat at Rs 24.35 lakh in Sector 49. Similarly, the reserve price of a two-bedroom flat in Sector 49 has been fixed between Rs 69.87 lakh and Rs 71.26 lakh, keeping in view the location of the flat.The reserve price of a two-bedroom flat in Sector 63 has been fixed at 67.30 lakh. The reserve price of an HIG flat (leasehold) in Sector 45-A has been fixed at Rs 1.07 crore. Similarly, the reserve price of restaurant site in Mani Majra is Rs 2.59 crore. The reserve price of a small booth (corner) has been fixed at Rs 97 lakh.Unlike earlier, the auction this time would be held in phases and the dates for the auction would be decided at a meeting of the Board of Directors to be held on March 9.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/269-chb-properties-to-be-auctioned-in-phases-216165
23-02-2021||Panchkula||415 vaccinated in Panchkula||As many as 415 healthcare and frontline workers were administered the Covid-19 vaccine today against the overall target of 616, registering a coverage rate of 67.37 per cent.Of the total vaccinated beneficiaries, 245 received the second dose.The vaccination drive was held at seven sites, including the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 and MLA Hostel.Over 10,000 beneficiaries have been vaccinated in the district so far. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/415-vaccinated-in-panchkula-216167
23-02-2021||Victim found 1-month pregnant||Contractor held for raping minor||Tribune News ServiceKharar, February 22The police have arrested a civil contractor for raping a 16-year-old labourer employed with him in Kharar. The suspect has been identified Mohammed Feroz (20), a Bihar native. He lived nearby the victim's shanty.On the statement of the victim's mother, a case has been registered against the suspect under Section 376 of the IPC and POCSO Act at the Kharar City police station.The victim’s mother told the police that the suspect entered their house on the night of February 20 and committed the act. Later, he fled the spot after threatening her daughter of dire consequences. The victim later told the police that he had been raping her for past sometime.Doctors at the Kharar Civil Hospital found the victim one-month pregnant. Investigation Officer Lakhwinder said the suspect was arrested today and the investigation was on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/contractor-held-for-raping-minor-216168
23-02-2021||---||Area near wetland in Panchkula hit by bird flu||Panchkula, February 22Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja today declared the area adjacent to the wetlands used by migratory birds in Alipur Naggal village as infected with avian influenza (H5N1).The area within 1-km radius from the epicentre has been declared an “infected zone” and the area between 1-10-km radius from the epicentre as a “surveillance zone”.Ahuja said no birds’ eggs or feed of avian species would be moved from the alert and surveillance zones to any other place. However, healthy birds, eggs or feed from free areas could enter these areas.“In exercise of the powers conferred under the Act, the area adjacent to the wetlands used by migratory birds at Alipur Naggal village is infected with avian influenza,’’ a press note said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/area-near-wetland-in-panchkula-hit-by-bird-flu-216169
23-02-2021||Chandigarh||38 more infected, one fatality in Chandigarh||With 38 cases and one Covid death, the UT case tally has reached 21,463 and the death toll 350. As many as 20,908 patients have recovered from the virus. There are now 205 active cases in the district. — TNS1 death, 49 cases in Mohali districtMohali: One more fatality was witnessed due to Covid-19 during the past 24 hours, taking the death toll in the district to 383. Meanwhile, 49 fresh cases surfaced, while 23 more patients recovered from the virus. Among the new cases, 39 were reported from Mohali (urban), one from Kurali, two from Kharar and seven from Dhakoli. The district has so far seen 19,988 cases, while 19,195 patients have been cured. There are now 410 active cases in the district. — TNS10 new cases in Panchkula distPanchkula: The district on Monday reported 10 fresh cases, taking the tally to 10,751. The Covid toll remained at 148. While 10,495 patients have recovered from the disease so far, 108 cases are still active. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/38-more-infected-one-fatality-in-chandigarh-216172
23-02-2021||Chandigarh||Hit by truck, woman dies||A 60-year-old woman pedestrian was killed after being hit by a truck near the Shastri Nagar light point. According to the police, Shanti, a resident of Shastri Nagar, was hit by a truck on February 21.She was injured and rushed to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, where doctors declared her brought dead.The police said the truck was being driven by Ankush Kumar of Mani Majra.A case has been registered at the IT Park police station. The suspect was arrested and later released on bail. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hit-by-truck-woman-dies-216173
23-02-2021||---||Scraped roads continue to trouble Sector 9 residents||Chandigarh, February 22While some roads in the city, which were earlier scraped and left without being repaired, have been recarpeted, Sector 9 residents still wait for their turn.The layer of asphalt from roads here was scraped three to four months ago, but the MC officials failed to get it repaired despite repeated complaints from the residents of the sector.It has caused much hardship to the local residents. Residents said bitumen was removed from one of the roads around November and from another road a few days later. However, the recarpeting work was yet to be carried out on these roads.MC doesn’t have a roadmap: ResidentIt is surprising how officials work. They have no roadmap. They should not have started the work, if they are not able to complete it in a time-bound manner. It must be repaired as soon as possible. —A Sector 9 residentThe gravel hassles motorists and pedestrians, who have to use these roads daily.“The road was better before it was scraped. We were at least able to use it without any problem. After the work was left midway, our vehicles are getting damaged and we are experiencing a bumpy ride while using the road,” rued Ranjit Singh, a local resident.“It is surprising how officials operate. They have no roadmap. They should not have started the work, if they are not able to complete it in a time-bound manner. It must be repaired as soon as possible,” added another resident.When Chandigarh Tribune had highlighted the issue earlier, officials concerned had claimed that the road will be repaired once the weather opened up. However, they are yet to act.Besides, several other roads in city are in a very poor condition.A senior MC official said the road, along with others, would be repaired in March when the civic body would restart its recarpeting work.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/scraped-roads-continue-to-trouble-sector-9-residents-216156
23-02-2021||Amit Bathla||BJP councillor’s election challenged||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, February 22The local Election Tribunal has issued a notice to BJP councillor from Ward No. 1 Narinder Pal Singh Lubana over a petition filed by losing candidate Sukhdev Singh to set aside his election.The petitioner, through his counsel Vishal Garg Narwana, has contended before the court that Lubana’s election should be declared null and void because his name was not on the electoral rolls of Panchkula Legislative Assembly, which is a requirement to contest the elections under the Representation of People Act and the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act.“Lubana actually resides in Chandigarh’s Kishangarh and also has a vote in the electoral rolls of MP constituency of Chandigarh,” the petition reads.In his petition, Sukhdev has also alleged that Lubana got prepared his illegal vote with the help and support of the Haryana Speaker and sitting MLA from Panchkula, Gian Chand Gupta, and his nomination papers were improperly and illegally accepted by the returning officer.“Hence, his election as councillor from Ward Number 1 should be declared null and void,” said Garg.Lubana defeated Sukhdev by a narrow margin of 49 votes. Lubana polled 1,673 votes while Sukhdev got 1,624 votes. The next date of hearing in the case is March 3.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjp-councillors-election-challenged-216157
23-02-2021||Naina Mishra||Beneficiaries delaying second dose on purpose, says expert||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 22After a peer-reviewed study published in a medical journal, The Lancet, stated that the coronavirus vaccine developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University, Covishield, is more effective when its second dose is given around three months after the first, instead of six weeks, several beneficiaries in Chandigarh have been requesting the health authorities to delay the second dose by a few weeks to enhance the immunity.Dr SS Pandav, who heads the Covid-19 vaccine management at the PGI, said: “Beneficiaries are updated on the vaccine. Many have been requesting us to delay the second dose by a few weeks to enhance the efficacy, as shown in the study. However, we cannot do so as it will hamper the entire vaccination programme if the second dose is delayed by three months. A large proportion of population has to be covered for vaccination and there should be no delay at all. So far, we cannot deny the second dose to any beneficiaries no matter how late they come. There are no specific timelines for the completion of the second dose. Ideally, it has to be administered within 28 days.”Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, Chandigarh, said there was no hesitancy for the second dose and some individuals were purposely delaying it so that better immunity levels were achieved against the disease.The second dose gives a boost to the immune system so that the antibody response is strong.The efficacy of the vaccine was found to be 81.3 per cent with a longer interval of 12 weeks between the first and second dose, compared to the 55.1 per cent efficacy in case of a six-week gap, according to the study.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/beneficiaries-delaying-second-dose-on-purpose-says-expert-216160
23-02-2021||---||203 vendors allotted sites||Panchkula, February 22The Panchkula Municipal Corporation today conducted a draw of lots for the allocation of vending sites in Sectors 2, 4, 8, 10, 11, 12 and 15 under the vendor rehabilitation initiative.The civic body had received 308 applications and sites were allocated to 203 registered street vendors. Only those vendors, who are residents of the district, were allowed to participate in the process, which annoyed those who had been working in the city for years, but don’t have a local residence proof.A number of street vendors from Chandigarh, who also reached the Community Centre in Sector 12, expressed displeasure over “discrimination in the allotment.”MC Joint Commissioner Sanyam Garg said it was decided in a recent meeting that local vendors will be given preference.As per a survey, there are 3,718 registered street vendors in Panchkula. Of these, 2,000 hold a local residence proof.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/203-vendors-allotted-sites-216180
23-02-2021||---||Caught in snarls, motorists see red in traffic cops’ green trial||Chandigarh, February 22The decision of the UT traffic police to provide a single green light while manoeuvring the Kisan Bhawan (Sector 22/23/35/36) roundabout on a trial basis to ensure smooth flow of traffic led to traffic snarls, defeating its purpose.In order to ease traffic congestion caused by vehicles stopping in the middle of the road at the red signal on the rotary, the police today provided a green signal to the traffic. However, this led to traffic snarls on the roads leading to the Kisan Bhawan chowk, including the roads separating Sector 22 and 23, and Sector 22 and 35.‘Existing system more efficient’The system halts the traffic moving on the other three roads, which leads to more inconvenience. I feel the existing system is more efficient. —Amrit Singh, a motoristSerpentine queues of vehicles were witnessed, especially during the morning and evening hours. Amrit Singh, who was heading towards Sector 36 from Sector 35 on Dakshin Marg, got stuck in a queue for at least seven minutes in the evening. “The system halts the traffic moving on the other three roads, which leads to more inconvenience. I feel the already existing system is more efficient,” he said.The helpline of the traffic police also received several calls from commuters, who complained about long traffic jams on the roads leading to the chowk. Police officials said the trial would continue tomorrow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/caught-in-snarls-motorists-see-red-in-traffic-cops-green-trial-216141
23-02-2021||---||Modi govt insensitive towards poor: Cong||Panchkula, February 22The Panchkula Congress unit today staged a protest against the unprecedented hike in fuel prices and the three contentious farm laws.Former Deputy Chief Minister Chander Mohan, who was leading the demonstration, termed the farmers’ protest a people’s movement.“These black laws are not limited to the farmers but will have direct consequences on ordinary citizens. If the laws are implemented, basic food items will become expensive,” he said while addressing a conference at Bishnoi Bhawan in Sector 15.The Congress leader further said the consecutive hike in the petrol prices had proven that the Modi government was insensitive towards the poor.Mohan said it was their duty to stand in solidarity with the farmers and his party would hold protests daily in different residential sectors to press for their demands.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/modi-govt-insensitive-towards-poor-cong-216142
23-02-2021||Naina Mishra||Crowding, complacency led to surge in Covid, says former PGI Director Dr Talwar||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 22Non-adherence to social distancing norms at marriage functions and complacent attitude of the public towards Covid-19 have contributed to a sudden upsurge in the cases of infection in Punjab, said a former Director of the PGI, Dr KK Talwar, who is also the Health Adviser to the Punjab Government.Recently, some students and teachers also tested positive for coronavirus in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, Ludhiana, and other districts. This prompted the health authorities to check for a new strain of the virus.Dr Talwar said the Punjab Government had sent some samples for genome testing to the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, Delhi, to check for the possibility of another strain of the virus. “We will check whether the new strain, if any, is more infectious to children as many students have tested positive of late in government schools. These children may not be severely symptomatic but can transmit virus to other people.”“Crowding has started in Punjab as so many marriage functions took place this month with social distancing norms going for a toss. This may have contributed to the virus spread as well. We have increased testing in Punjab and contact tracing. We will impose some restrictions to control the spread,” he said.Punjab is among the five states in the country to witness an upsurge in daily Covid cases over the past week, recording a 47.30 per cent jump in 24-hour infections between February 14 and 20.Re-infection unlikely behind increase in infections, says virologist from the PGIRuling out the possibility of re-infection in Punjab, Dr Mini P Singh, Department of Virology, PGI, said, “It is too immature to say that the surge is caused due to a new variant of coronavirus without conducting any molecular analysis. It is unlikely that that the surge is due to re-infection because there are only a few hundred of cases till date. If re-infection was so rampant, why did it not happen in September?”Chandigarh, too, sees surge in casesFrom 131 cases in the week ending February 14, the UT saw 187 cases in the week ending February 21 — an increase of 42%. From 123 cases on February 13, the active caseload rose to 205 on Monday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/crowding-complacency-led-to-surge-in-covid-says-former-pgi-director-dr-talwar-216143
23-02-2021||Sandeep Rana||Day after massive fire, Dadu Majra residents battle smoke||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 22Those near the Dadu Majra dumping ground have been living in a hell-like condition for the past two days.The smoke emanating from the fire that broke out at the dumping ground on Sunday continued to trouble people today as well. Fire was doused this morning, but thick smoke blanketed the sky and also entered houses near the ground.The smoke inconvenienced people in neighbouring areas — Dhanas, Sectors 25 and 38, Panjab University and even some parts of Sector 22.“The smog caused irritation to my eyes and throat. Our masks and curtains are ruined as the smog entered our houses,” said Dadu Majra resident Dayal Krishan, president, Joint Action Committee for raising the dumping ground issues.Many residents had a sleepless night. Irritated by the smoke, some of them came out on roads at night and even reached the dumping ground to know the status from officials concerned. They later protested against the UT Administration and local MP Kirron Kher.“The Administration does not listen to people’s grievances. They are not bothered about our deteriorating health,” said Parshotham, a resident of the Dadu Majra colony.“What did the MC spend Rs33 crore on? Even after spending so much, the situation has not improved,” added Ravi.Dayal Krishan even suspected the fire was deliberately caused. “The matter should be probed. In the summer season, it is possible that fire breaks out just like that, but the same is not possible in the winter,” he added.“This is the second fire incident in the past five months during the pandemic. The incident needs to be probed for any mischievous acts ahead of the Swachh Survekshan Survey,” commented Vinod Vashisht, convener of the City Forum of Residents Welfare Organisation.A fire official said five fire tenders were pressed into service to control the smoke today. The reason of the fire could not be known.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/day-after-massive-fire-dadu-majra-residents-battle-smoke-216144
