24-02-2021||Chandigarh||Curbs to be back if cases head north: Chandigarh||Amid an upsurge in active cases of Covid-19, the UT Administration is considering reimposing restrictions in the city to contain further spread of the virus.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said partial restrictions would be imposed if the number of coronavirus cases continued to rise in the city. “We are keeping a watch. Timely action will be taken if the situation starts deteriorating,” he said.Active caseload upLike several states, Chandigarh too has been witnessing a surge in the Covid-19 cases. From 131 cases in the week ending February 14, there has been an increase of 42 per cent as the UT logged 187 cases in the week ending February 21. From 123 active cases on February 13, the active caseload increased to 227 on Tuesday.Following a spurt in Covid-19 cases in neighbouring Punjab, the state government today ordered a cap on indoor gatherings at 100 and outdoor at 200 persons from March 1. Parida said similar restrictions could be imposed in the city if the cases remained in an upward trajectory in the city.The UT Adviser said as of now, a strict Covid-19 protocol needed to be followed such as wearing of mask, maintaining social distancing and handwashing, which could help prevent a surge in the Covid-19 cases. He said health officials had been asked to increase tests for early detection of positive cases.Like several states, Chandigarh too has been witnessing a surge in the Covid-19 cases. From 131 cases in the week ending February 14, there has been an increase of 42 per cent as the UT logged 187 cases in the week ending February 21. From 123 active cases on February 13, the active caseload increased to 227 today. For encouraging vaccination, he said they were exploring options such as giving one-day leave to health or frontline worker who take the vaccine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/curbs-to-be-back-if-cases-head-north-chandigarh-216575
24-02-2021||Chandigarh||37 cases in Chandigarh||36 more infected in Mohali districtMohali: As many as 36 new Covid cases were reported from the district on Tuesday. Twenty-five more patients recovered from the virus. The district has so far seen 20,024 cases while 19,220 patients have been cured. The active case tally stands at 421. — TNS9 cases in PanchkulaPanchkula: Nine fresh Covid cases surfaced during the past 24 hours in Panchkula district. No death was reported. Meanwhile, 579 received the vaccine jab on Tuesday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/37-cases-in-chandigarh-216576
24-02-2021||Chandigarh||Child unit seeks data of school dropouts||In compliance with the orders of the Supreme Court of India, the District Child Protection Officer of Chandigarh has sought a list of the children who have dropped out of schools during the Covid-19 pandemic due to poor financial condition of their family.The protection unit has asked the UT Education Department to identify the families that are unable to send their children to schools or cannot bear the education-related expenses due to Covid-19 crisis. The department has been asked to make a database of such children and submit the same to the child protection unit within 15 days.The Education Department has also been asked to initiate a programme for children identified under the ‘phone tree model’.The department will report the current status of the educational needs of the children or any issues related to online classes. Such children will receive a grant-in-aid of Rs2,000.Besides, the District Legal Service Authority will ensure upgrade of the infrastructure being provided to Child Care Institutions (CCI) and functioning of online classes on a monthly basis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/child-unit-seeks-data-of-school-dropouts-216577
24-02-2021||Chandigarh||MC clears dues, Admn yet to pay up, owes Rs48 crore||The MC has cleared its pending property tax dues while the UT Administration continues to owe Rs48.33 crore to the property tax branch of the civic body.In December last year, it was reported that the MC owes Rs3 crore in property tax. Now, the MC has no dues.The arrears of the Administration are for the period between 2004 (since the MC started levying commercial tax) and February 2021. However, the issue has been continuing despite repeated notices to the Administration.“We are in talks with the Administration. They are checking the old payments, if any. We will wait till March and then send a revised notice depending on how much amount they will clear by then,” said a senior tax branch officer.According to the MC, the UT Secretariat, where the Adviser, Finance Secretary, Home Secretary and other top brass of the Administration sit, owes the highest amount of Rs2.16 crore. The Haryana Raj Bhawan has a pending tax of Rs3.18 lakh and the Punjab Raj Bhawan Rs2.70 lakh. The UT Guest House has Rs32 lakh arrears, while the ISBT has Rs2.63 lakh. Several police posts, hospitals, and other buildings under the UT have pending tax to be paid to the corporation.Vinod Vashisht, convener of the City Forum of Residents Welfare Organisations, said: “MC officials should sit with the UT Adviser and solve the tax issue for once and for all.”The MC issues a sealing order if the tax of a commercial building is not cleared, but here the civic body is adopting a wait-and-watch policy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-clears-dues-admn-yet-to-pay-up-owes-rs48-crore-216578
24-02-2021||Mohali||Purse with Rs 2.26 lakh snatched in Mohali||Two motorcycle-borne miscreants snatched a purse from a PSPCL employee containing Rs2.26 lakh and three cheques for Rs18,930 near the office on Monday afternoon. The unidentified miscreants came on a bike and snatched the purse from the cashier, Karamjit Kaur, when she was going to a bank. The victim saw one of the youths as the other one was wearing a helmet. A case has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/purse-with-rs-2-26-lakh-snatched-in-mohali-216579
24-02-2021||Chandigarh||A smoky affair for third day running||Smoke continued to billow out from the waste dumping ground at Dadu Majra for the third day today.A fire had broken out there on Sunday. Smoke has been billowing out since then, causing trouble to residents of Dadu Majra an nearby places.Councillor Devinder Singh Babla today visited the site and claimed that he had caught MC trucks in which persons were buying sand from a company but not throwing it at the waste dumping ground.“Had they covered the waste with sand, the fire could have been contained,” he said.However, the MC Medical Officer of Health, Dr Amrit Warring, said, “It’s not true. The fire broke out there due to a change in the weather. The MC is throwing sand.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/a-smoky-affair-for-third-day-running-216580
24-02-2021||Mohali||Woman hangs herself to death in Mohali||A 49-year-old woman, Sunanda Passi, a resident of Sector 68, reportedly committed suicide by hanging herself this morning.The police have recovered a suicide note in which the woman said she was taking the extreme step as she was suffering from an illness for a long time and was depressed.Attempt-to-murder caseThe police booked unidentified persons in an attempt-to-murder case today. A Mohali-based businessman lodged a complaint that some miscreants opened fire at his vehicle. The victim, however, escaped unhurt.Complainant Parminder Singh Parma alleged that he had gone to an eatery on the Banur road when some unidentified youths fired shots at him. A case against unknown persons has been registered under Sections 307, 427, 506 and 34 of the IPC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-hangs-herself-to-death-in-mohali-216581
24-02-2021||Zirakpur||Lid off fake stamp paper scam, five land in police net||With the arrest of five, the police claim to have busted a fake stamp paper scam involving an inter-state gang.A cache of 333 unused stamp papers of various denominations, 11 fake rubber stamps, 125 tickets, 10 registers and a car have been seized. Two more suspects are yet to be arrested.The suspects have been identified as Harish Kumar Arora, the mastermind and a resident of Dhakoli, Rajpura resident Davinder Kumar, Sachin Jindal, a resident of Sunam, Ashok Kumar, a resident of Samana, and Dhakoli resident Abhay Bhattacharya. Arora’s two sons – Sahil and Abhishek — are absconding.The police said the suspects were misusing backdated stamp papers for various purposes and causing loss to the state exchequer. Moreover, kingpin Harish Arora was not an authorised stamp paper vendor. The police arrested Arora on a tip-off. The suspects were operating for more than eight years.Sources said many illegal housing societies and colonies in Peer Muchalla, Dhakoli and Zirakpur were using these stamp papers. The police said they were scrutinising the papers but as of now, the role of any bank or MC employee had not been established.SP (Rural) Dr Ravjot Grewal said: “Two more persons are likely to be arrested soon. The suspects have been sent to seven-day police custody.” A case has been registered against the suspects at the Zirakpur police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lid-off-fake-stamp-paper-scam-five-land-in-police-net-216584
24-02-2021||Mohali||Mohali civic body to issue notices soon||The Mohali Municipal Corporation will soon issue notices to those property owners who have evaded tax on rented-out accommodation by showing the same as self-occupied.The corporation has started the process of scrutinising the self-assessment returns filed by owners/occupiers of properties in the city for submission of property tax.Heavy fineMunicipal Commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said the MC would soon issue notices to the owners/occupiers of these properties and the difference between the tax paid by the occupants and the property tax levied on the rent would be recovered with 100 per cent penalty and 18 per cent interest.Municipal Commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said the property tax returns were being scrutinised by the MC on the spot. The returns of 180 properties have been scrutinised by the corporation within three days, during which it has been found that the owners/occupiers of six properties have paid the tax as per the possession of the respective properties even though these had been rented out.Garg said the MC would soon issue notices to the owners/occupiers of these properties and the difference between the tax paid by the occupants and the property tax levied on the rent would be recovered with 100 per cent penalty and 18 per cent interest.Garg said the scrutiny of the property tax returns would continue and the owners of the properties, who had under-assessed the area of their property by showing their property as self-occupied or paid lesser tax by under assessing the rented property would be served notices. The lesser amount deposited will be recovered with 100 per cent penalty and 18 per cent interest.The civic body records show Mohali has 52,678 properties. Of these, 41,082 are residential, 4,929 commercial, 1,683 industrial and 4,984 are vacant plots. Of these, 24,406 are taxable and 7,826 are defaulters. Dues worth Rs 6.5 crore have piled up.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-civic-body-to-issue-notices-soon-216586
24-02-2021||Chandigarh||Drivers of taxis, autorickshaws stage protest||There were bitter arguments between the railway authorities and taxi/auto drivers today. While the drivers alleged that the RPF had been beating them up for “no reason at all”, the officials concerned stated that they would not allow drivers to enter the station without platform ticket.Brijesh Pandey, who claims to own about a dozen taxis, alleged: “The police here are beating us without any reason. It has been going on for the past 10 days. They don’t allow us to reach out to passengers and are asking for Rs 2,000 a week as ‘hafta’ or weekly payment.”The RPF has rubbished these allegations. RPF SHO Rajesh Rana said: “As per rules, people can’t be allowed to enter the platform without ticket. We have, in the past, fined such auto drivers and impounded their vehicles too. This seems to have irked them.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/drivers-of-taxis-autorickshaws-stage-protest-216588
24-02-2021||New Delhi||Bids invited for railway station development project||The Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation (IRSDC) has invited request for proposal (RFP) for the leasing of four land parcels for the Chandigarh Railway Station redevelopment project.Four land parcels, SP4 (12,427 sq mt), SP5 (15,027 sq mt), SP6 (17,890 sq mt) and SP7 (11,347 sq mt), spanning across 56,691 sq mt of land, with a total allowable built-up area (BUA) of 2,32,341 sq mt are available for mixed-use development.Bidders can bid for all four land parcels or can also bid for an individual one, as per their choice, an IRSDC spokesperson said.The plan is to develop Chandigarh Railway Station into a world-class transport hub to offer superior travel experience to passengers. The vacant land parcels which are part of the redevelopment are suitable for a mixed-use development (a zoning type that blends residential, commercial, cultural, institutional, entertainment uses into one space) that will have a positive effect on real estate prospects in the vicinity, added the spokesman.The redevelopment is expected to help tourism, generate employment and have a cascading impact on local economy.The development project has been cleared by the Central Government for long-term lease rights of up to 99 years for real estate. No change in land use certificate is required for railway station redevelopment anywhere in India.The IRSDC will approve its master plan in consultation with the local authorities. Alternate Investment Funds (AIF) or foreign funds are also eligible to participate.As part of redevelopment of railway stations, work on 123 stations is in progress. Of these, the IRSDC is working on 61 stations and the Rail Land Development Authority on 62 stations. As per the current estimates, total investment needed for the redevelopment of 123 stations along with real estate development is about Rs 50,000 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bids-invited-for-railway-station-development-project-216590
24-02-2021||Chandigarh||Tributes paid to Ajit Singh at Sector 17||Attending to Samyukt Kisan Morcha’s (SKM) call for celebrating 140th birth anniversary of Ajit Singh, who spearheaded the Pagdi Sambhal Jatta farmers’ movement in the pre-partition Punjab, civil society members gathered at Sector 17 here today.Clad in yellow turbans, both men and women, paid tributes to Ajit Singh while reminiscing the 1907 movement triggered by the three laws of British colonial government against the farmers of Punjab.“Back then, the British got the Punjab Land Colonisation Bill, which threatened farmers’ land with seizure. It’s no different now,” said Rajwinder Kaur.“This is truly a matter of our ‘pagri’ now, which means our self-respect. The Central Government, under BJP’s Modi-Shah dictatorship, is repeating the colonial history,” said one of the speakers, Kulvinder Sidhu.As many speakers joined in, they said the farmers’ resolve to continue the protest was rocksolid. “In 1907, they (farmers) protested against the three laws for nine months. Many were arrested, even Sardar Ajit Singh. But that didn’t shake their resolve to fight for their rights. The present government’s not learnt from the history,” said Prof Manjit Singh.In front of the Rooster Fountain, protesters sang the famous ‘Pagri Sambhal Jatta’ song, while raising slogans of Bhagat Singh, who was Sardar Ajit Singh’s nephew.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tributes-paid-to-ajit-singh-at-sector-17-216591
24-02-2021||Chandigarh||Open house to motivate health staff||In an attempt to motivate the staff and improve the turnout for Covid vaccine, an open house, under the chairmanship of the PGI Director, will be held tomorrow.Any questions or concerns of healthcare workers pertaining to the Covid-19 vaccine will be addressed.Prof Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, said: “We found that only 40 per cent healthcare workers have been vaccinated so far. It has been observed that junior healthcare workers such as the nursing staff or hospital attendants are not coming forward for vaccination. Getting vaccinated at this time is very important given that the cases have started rising in Punjab. Such things will impact our institute’s healthcare workers as well. It has been learnt that the new strain of virus is spreading fast.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/open-house-to-motivate-health-staff-216592
24-02-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib. February 23||Police recover cash, jewellery worth Rs16L within 24 hrs of theft||The police today claimed to have solved the theft of cash and jewellery worth Rs16 lakh stolen from the house of the owner of Kang Farms at Marwa village near Bassi Pathana.Amneet Kondal, SSP, said Arshdeep Singh Kang had lodged an FIR with the police that cash and jewellery worth Rs16 lakh had been stolen from his house located at Kang Farms, Marwa, on the night of February 20. A special investigation team, led by Jagjit Singh Jalla, SP (Investigation), Sukhminder Singh Chouhan, DSP of Bassi Pathana, and Inspector Manpreet Singh Deol, SHO, was constituted and they solved the theft case within 24 hours with the arrest of Kang’s servant, Pappu, a resident of UP. The stolen cash and Jewellery were recovered.The SHO said Pappu escaped taking the advantage of darkness and he would be arrested soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/police-recover-cash-jewellery-worth-rs16l-within-24-hrs-of-theft-216593
24-02-2021||Chandigarh||Snag triggers chaos at civic body’s fuel station in Sec 51||The Municipal Corporation’s fuel station in Sector 51 today saw long queues of vehicles due to a technical snag in the system.Around 50-100 MC vehicles that get refueled at the station were stranded.“The fuel metre did not show any number after which the fuel filling was stopped. We have been stranded here for three hours,” lamented a driver.“It is a fuel station for all. Usually, after the MC vehicle tanks are filled, they refuse fuel to the general public,” said Pradeep, a local resident. There were several flaws, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/snag-triggers-chaos-at-civic-bodys-fuel-station-in-sec-51-216595
24-02-2021||Chandigarh||Interactive sessions held at school||Three interactive sessions on ‘Career Guidance and Counselling’ under the “Samagra Shiksha Chandigarh” were conducted by Dr Bharat, Assistant Professor, University Institute of Legal Studies, Panjab University, for the students of Class XI and XII at Government Senior Secondary School, Sector 45-A.Dr Bharat underlined that the ultimate goal of education was to inspire the next generation of learners to find their passions, hone their skills and help them to continue the quest for personal growth. He also emphasised that education not only helped in personality development of a child but also played a vital role in ‘character building’ which couldn’t be undermined at any cost.He underlined various career options available to the students in the higher education institutions in general and the PU in particular. There were three sessions for the students from various streams, which were followed by a question-answer session and a quiz.“Samagra Shiksha” is an overarching programme for the school education sector extending from pre-school to Class XII and has the broader goal of improving school effectiveness measured in terms of equal opportunities for schooling and equitable learning outcomes. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/interactive-sessions-held-at-school-216596
24-02-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Archery assn charges trials fee||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 23Local archers were in a tight spot after the Chandigarh Archery Association asked them to submit trials fee before appearing for the selection procedure of a junior team.The local trainees were asked to pay Rs500 each. However, after the news spread in the media, the amount was reduced to Rs300 each player.Notably, parents alleged that no official circular was issued by the association and the update to submit the amount was given through verbal means.While the general secretary of the association accepted that the amount was taken as it has been charged for the past several years, the president refused to have any knowledge in this regard.“We have lesser number of archers for trials. The amount was charged to provide them with equipment. This is nothing new,” said Vikram Singh, general secretary, Chandigarh Archery Association. He also claimed that a receipt was also issued to the players for submitting the amount and a circular was also released. However, he maintained that he did not have the circular in possession to make it public. The parents maintained that no receipt had been issued.“I am not aware about any such thing. There should be no fee on trials to get the maximum response of players,” said Amarinder Singh Bazaz, president, Chandigarh Archery Association.Interestingly, local associations in Chandigarh get grounds free of cost for conducting any affiliate championship or trials. The associations, if eligible, also get grants from the COA and the UT Sports Department to carry out activities in the city.“Instead of promoting archery among students, the association is demoralising them. Some players, who are from a poor background, have suffered in the past and such decisions are making things worse for them. Trainees are already facing problems in buying expensive archery equipment,” said a parent.The trials were held on February 21 for choosing a local team to participate in the 41st NTPC Junior National (Indian Round, Compound & Recurve) Archery Championship from March 7 to 16, at Uttarakhand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/archery-assn-charges-trials-fee-216609
24-02-2021||---||Sathiyan breaks the jinx, crowned national champ||Panchkula, February 23World No. 37 and second seeded Petroleum paddler G Sathiyan lifted the UTT 82nd National Table Tennis Championship at Tau Devi Lal Stadium in Sector 3 here today.In a thriller, Sathiyan defeated tournament’s favourite A Sharath Kamal 11-6, 11-7, 10-12, 7-11, 11-8 and 11-8.“Third time I was lucky, no more jinx. A huge burden off my shoulder,” said Sathiyan. Before Cuttack, he had missed out at Puducherry (2014) and Hyderabad (2015). The 4-2 win also helped him carry home Rs2.50 lakh prize money.Taking a 2-0 lead, Sathiyan made his intentions loud and clear. But he knows his experienced opponent can change the flow of match in a matter of minutes. And Kamal did strike, taking the next two games. But, as seen often, Kamal had his problems unable to land the ball. Converting those moments to his advantage, Sathiyan nailed it again and went 3-2 up.As if on cue, Sathiyan kept his backhand blocks and forehand scorchers going, pushing Kamal on the back foot as hard as possible.Kamal should own up the mistakes for his losing heart in the match, allowing Sathiyan to take control slowly but surely. It’s equally important to give full credit to Sathiyan, the new champion, who punched his way up the ladder with a lot of hard work.“In the end, it was a good match, and he deserved to win,” said genial Kamal. He attributed the loss to the lack of concentration in the fifth game after leading 8-6. “Two crucial mistakes cost me dearly at that stage. But Sathiyan let me off the hook in the third to come back. These are part of the game. I am happy for him,” he said.Kamal is not yet giving up chasing his 10th title. “I will certainly come back strong and aim for it,” he said.Semis’ thrillerEarlier in the day, Kamal began well in his semi-final against fourth seed Manav Thakkar. But in the second, Thakkar went 3-1 up before letting Kamal take his second point. And both exchanged a point before Thakkar striking a nice rhythm to lead 9-3.Kamal added two more points and that was all he managed. In the third, Thakkar surged ahead and led 10-7 up. Saving three game points, Kamal converted his second game point to go 2-1 up. In the fourth, the seasoned took control of the game before wrapping it up comfortably. However, the sixth was a touch-and-go affair. The lead kept changing hands until Kamal had his first match point at 10-9. The top seed and World No. 32 failed to convert while squandering two more before sewing it up on the fourth.On the other hand, Thakkar dropped three game points. But the credit must go to last year’s runner-up, who matched Kamal’s attacking way of play. Thakkar’s backhand and wonderful placements caught his opponent on the wrong foot as the latter time and again indulged in false stroke. Kamal, employing his backhand blocks and powerful flips, upped the ante only to drop his guard now and then. But there was hardly a moment in the match when Kamal looked out of control.In the second semis, SFR Snehit lost the match when he allowed second seed Sathiyan to claw his way back from 2-10 down. Another chance came his way when he went 11-10 up. But Sathiyan nailed it to win the game 13-11. After that, Snehit was never in the match.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sathiyan-breaks-the-jinx-crowned-national-champ-216623
24-02-2021||Mohali||Immigration firm owner lands in police net||The police have nabbed the owner of a Mohali-based immigration company, who allegedly duped people on the pretext of providing work permit and admission to various academic courses abroad.Balwinder Singh, the owner of Downtown Overseas Immigration Company, was arrested today. The police seized mobile phones, registers and documents from the office premises. A complainant had approached the Mohali SSP after being allegedly duped of lakhs of rupees by the firm. The police have registered a case at the Mataur police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/immigration-firm-owner-lands-in-police-net-216630
24-02-2021||Chandigarh||SD College-32 boys qualify for cricket nationals||GGDSD College, Sector 32, lads qualified for the national leg of the Red Bull Cricket Cup by registering a 16-run win over DAV College, Sector 10.After winning the toss, the Sector 32 skipper opted to bat. The side posted 132/6 in allotted 20 overs. Ishan Goel scored 52 runs to remain the highest scorer for the side, while Vishu Kashyap (22), Jagmeet (20) and Akshit Rana (20) were the other contributors. Nehal (3/19) was the pick of the bowlers for the bowling side.In reply, DAV lads posted 116 runs before getting all out in 19 overs. Sagar (28), Nippun Sharda (21) and Treyaksh (21) shined with the bat. Janam, Harshist, Abhishek Saini and Hardik claimed two wickets each for the bowling side. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sd-college-32-boys-qualify-for-cricket-nationals-216632
24-02-2021||Chandigarh||Shirin claims shooting gold||Shirin Godara scored 583 points out of 600 to win the 50m rifle event gold on the opening day of the 45th State Shooting Championship organised by the Chandigarh Rifle Association at Patiala ki Rao Shooting Range today.In the free pistol final, Sunil Chaudhary scored 520 points to claim the top position, while Unish Holinder scored 562 points to claim the 10m air pistol gold. In the 10m air rifle event, Jasnoor claimed the top honour by scoring 581 points.Earlier, Naunihal Singh, IGP, Punjab Police, inaugurated the event. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shirin-claims-shooting-gold-216633
24-02-2021||Chandigarh||City golfer Mansukh takes lead on Day 1||Mansukh Sandhu of Chandigarh played a brilliant round of 5-under-67 to take a huge lead on the opening day of the Samarvir Sahi Golf Championship at the Chandigarh Golf Club here today. He played a flawless round of six birdies, 11 pars and one bogey.Another Chandigarh lad Harmanbir Bajwa ended the day on the second position at 1-under-71. Meanwhile, four players - Rachit Mankoti of Gujarat, Pranav Mardikar of Pune, Sahul Yadav of Chandigarh and Raghav Bhandari of Chandigarh - were tied-3rd at level par score of 72. National champion Aaryan Roopa Anand of Mysore was one-shot behind at 73. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/city-golfer-mansukh-takes-lead-on-day-1-216634
24-02-2021||Panchkula||Efforts on to hold Commonwealth TT matches in Panchkula: Dy CM||Expressing satisfaction over organising the 82nd National Table Tennis Championship, Dushyant Chautala, Deputy Chief Minister, Haryana, and president of the Table Tennis Federation, said now efforts would be made to hold Commonwealth Table Tennis matches at Tau Devi Lal Stadium.Chautala was presiding over the concluding function of the National Table Tennis Championship today.He said he hoped that table tennis matches of the Commonwealth Games would be organised in Panchkula. He said Tau Devi Lal Stadium was capable of holding international-level matches, besides making arrangement for boarding and lodging of players. He hoped that the UTT league, which could not be held due to the pandemic, would soon be started again.Minister of State for Sports Sandeep Singh said to promote sports, the Haryana Government was providing Rs5 lakh to players who qualify for the Olympic games. After participating in the games, they would be given Rs15 lakh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/efforts-on-to-hold-commonwealth-tt-matches-in-panchkula-dy-cm-216635
24-02-2021||---||Cheque-bounce case: Company directors told to pay Rs 60-lakh relief||Chandigarh, February 23A local court has asked two directors of a company to pay Rs60 lakh compensation to another company for issuing Rs30-lakh cheque, which got dishonoured.Manu Mittu, Judicial Magistrate, First Class, also sentenced both directors of the company to one-year rigorous imprisonment after finding them guilty of the offences under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881.While pronouncing the judgment, the court said: “The object of bringing Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881, into the statute is to inculcate faith in efficacy of banking operations and creditability in business transaction”.Ishan Khurana of Anrose Pharma, Industrial Area, Chandigarh, had filed a complaint through advocate Satbir Singh Walia against Biotropic Pharma Private Limited, Baddi. In the complaint, Khurana said Biotropic Pharma used to supply goods to his company on the receipt of advance payment.An amount of Rs62 lakh was due against Biotropic Pharma. To discharge that liability, a cheque for Rs30 lakh was issued, which got dishonoured. The directors of the said company refuted the charges during the hearing of the case.After hearing both counsels, the court said the accused had committed a serious offence by deliberately failing in discharge of their economic liability and had failed to ensure the payment of cheque. It said the commission of offence punishable under Section 138 read with Section 141 of the Negotiable Instruments Act was increasing day by day and was required to be dealt with strictly. Thus, the accused did not deserve any leniency of probation under the Probation of Offenders Act, 1958. So, they were sentenced to undergo one-year rigorous imprisonment. They were also directed to pay Rs60 lakh compensation, double the cheque amount of Rs30 lakh, to the complainant within a period of one month of expiry of the period prescribed for appeal, or its disposal, if any.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cheque-bounce-case-company-directors-told-to-pay-rs-60-lakh-relief-216636
24-02-2021||Chandigarh||Purse containing Rs10K, DL stolen||Bag containing jewellery stolenZirakpur: A wedding event in Dhakoli turned sour when the purse of the bride’s mother containing Rs2 lakh, gold ornaments and other valuables was stolen from a marriage palace on Monday night. The CCTV footage of the marriage palace shows an unidentified man stealing the purse and fleeing the spot. A case of theft has been registered. TNSAWWA chief visits rehab centreChandigarh: Alka Singh, regional president of Army Wives Welfare Association (AWWA), Western Command, visited the Paraplegic Rehabilitation Centre in Mohali on Tuesday. She interacted with the inmates of the centre and their families, and also discussed measures for their welfare. This centre is a premier institution undertaking the rehabilitation of disabled defence personnel who become paraplegic in the line of duty, and trains them in vocational activities so that they can become economically self-reliant. TNSMan nabbed with fake spare partsPanchkula: The Kalka police have nabbed a person for selling fake spare parts of cars. The suspect has been identified as Kulbhushan, a resident of Motor Market, Panchkula. The police said they received a complaint from Manish Jindal on Monday. He stated that the suspect was selling spare parts of various cars by affixing fake stickers. TNS53,300 take online examChandigarh: Around 53,300 students appeared in various examinations of undergraduate/post graduate/other professional courses, including USOL/private candidates, said Dr Jagat Bhushan, Controller of Examination, Panjab University. On the 9th day of the ongoing examinations, a total of 120 exams were held. TNSCricket meet from March 6Chandigarh: Kumaon Welfare and Cultural Society, Zirakpur, will organise the 1st Cricket Tournament on March 6 and 7 at the Kaimbwala Cricket Ground. Manoj Rawat, president of Kumaon Welfare and Cultural Society, said a total of 20 teams would take part in the tournament and players who belong to Uttarakhand would participate in this tournament. Society members Bishan Kadari, Ganesh Manral, Balbir Rawat, Dilip Rawat, Praveen Rawat, Devinder Singh Rawat, Naresh Rawat, Bhupinder Khati, Bhupinder Tadagi, Madan Singh, Monty and Bhupinder Rawat attended the meeting. TNSMinerva win football titleChandigarh: Minerva Academy FC defeated Gurdaspur FC 1-0 to win the Pundrik Football Tournament in Haryana. Anwar Ali scored the only goal of the match. Lalrinchhana Lallawmpuia came close to scoring the first goal, but the ball went out of target. A corner saw Ali leap into the air and head the ball towards the goal while it touched the defender’s hand and Minerva Academy FC win a penalty. A right-footed ground shot by Ali thrashed into the net as Minerva Academy FC took a 1-0 lead in the first half. TNSMonth-long safe road campaignChandigarh: Supported by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, the Chandigarh Traffic Police, the UT Administration and the Education Department, along with Yuvsatta - an NGO, launched a month-long “Safe Road Chandigarh Campaign”, from Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 18. As part of the campaign, the NGO will reach out to young students and people through puppet shows at 30 schools, street plays at public places, eye check-up camp for truckers and will also hold meetings with the Resident Welfare Associations. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/purse-containing-rs10k-dl-stolen-216638
