25-02-2021||Patiala||Diarrhoea threat looms over Rajpura||Even after one month of the diarrhoea outbreak, residents of the focal point area in Rajpura are not getting safe water. Meanwhile, water samples of the Star Enclave in the Focal point area have failed test for the third time in a row.Six water samples failed the quality test on Monday. With this, 25 water samples of the focal point, where the diarrhoea outbreak was reported on January 18, have failed the test.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, has written to the Deputy Commissioner to issue directions to the department concerned to provide safe water in the affected area because of the threat of another diarrhoea outbreak.“First, we collected water samples on January 18 and 19, which failed the test. Thereafter, we collected water samples on January 31. Unfortunately, the samples continue to fail test,” said the Civil Surgeon.Water Supply and Sewerage Sub Divisional Officer Karandeep Singh said: “The repair work is still under way. Earlier, there were leaks while now the main sewerage line in the area has caved in. We have stopped water supply in the evening.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/diarrhoea-threat-looms-over-rajpura-217315
25-02-2021||---||Education Dept slaps  notices on teachers||Patiala, February 24The Education Department today slapped slapped show-cause notices on Government schoolteachers, who exposed irregularities in the mid-day meal ration.In the wake of the exposure of the wrongdoing by said teachers, the department had to suspend the school principal. However, principal was reinstated within 10 days before the completion of the inquiry.In notices issued by the Education Department it was stated that teachers instead of informing the higher authorities about irregularities straightaway called the media to school, which brought a bad name to the department.On the other hand teachers claimed that they had first informed the higher authorities, including Education Secretary and Education Minister, but they simply ignored the matter.As per the audit team of the Education Department, which conducted a physical verification of the mid-day meal ration on December 17, 2020, irregularities were found therein.Meanwhile, the Democratic Teacher Front (DTF), a teachers’ union, blamed political pressure for the decision to issue show-cause notices to teachers.The inquiry officer-cum-deputy director, mid-day meal cell, IPS Malhotra, said, “The school principal was suspended on the basis of the preliminary inquiry report. However, regular inquiry is still pending. I can’t comment on the decision to reinstate school principal because it is up to the government to revoke suspension.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/education-dept-slaps-notices-on-teachers-217314
25-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Minister, MLAs mourn death of Sardool Sikander||Fatehgarh Sahib, February 24As soon as the news about the passing away of renowned Punjabi singer Sardool Sikander, who breathed his last today after a brief illness spread, his friends, fans, admirers and folk singers thronged his native village Kheri Naud Singh in the Bassi Pathana constituency falling in Faterhgarh Sahib district.Cabinet Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot along with Fatehgarh Sahib and Bassi Pathana MLAs Kuljit Nagra and Gurpreet Singh GP, respectively, expressed grief over the demise of singer. Sikander is survived by his wife and two sons.The minister and MLAs described Sardool Sikander as a versatile singer, who would be remembered for his contribution to Punjabi singing. Sikander was born in Kheri Naud Singh village and had migrated to Khanna in Ludhiana district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/minister-mlas-mourn-death-of-sardool-sikander-217313
25-02-2021||Our Correspondent||SAD (D) protests increase in fuel, gas prices||Fatehgarh Sahib, Feb 24The district unit of the Shiromani Akali Dal (Democratic), led by former Deputy Speaker Bir Devinder Singh, protested the hike in fuel prices and demanded its immediate rollback. All senior leaders of the SAD (D), including Justice (retd) Nirmal Singh, district president Lakhvir Singh Thablan, Gurnam Singh Bhaironpur, Amrik Singh Romi, Rajesh Singla and Gurbachan Singh Loolon, participated in the protest and submitted a memorandum to the ADC today.Bir Devinder and Nirmal Singh said the Modi government was profiting from miseries of the people by increasing the fuel prices.Meanwhile, a delegation of the party submitted a memorandum to the Mohali Deputy Commissioner. It was submitted under the leadership of district coordinator Major Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sad-d-protests-increase-in-fuel-gas-prices-217312
25-02-2021||---||Notice issued to oil firms||Chandigarh, February 24Cracking the whip on defaulters, the Estate Office has issued notice to three petroleum companies for not paying the outstanding amount of the ground rent.Assistant Estate Officer Manish Lohan said Bharat Petroleum, Indian Oil Corporation and Hindustan Petroleum were operating nearly 40 petrol pumps in various sectors of the city. An amount of Rs20 crore was pending against the companies, he added.The companies had been asked to pay the rent amount within 15 days or face action as per the terms and condition of the agreement, he said. “We will start proceedings to resume sites if the companies fail to pay arrears,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/notice-issued-to-oil-firms-217303
25-02-2021||Panchkula||One death, 10 cases in Panchkula dist||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-death-10-cases-in-panchkula-dist-217293
25-02-2021||Mohali||64 new cases, no fatality in Mohali||at 383. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/64-new-cases-no-fatality-in-mohali-217292
25-02-2021||Chandigarh||41 more infected, one death in Chandigarh||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/41-more-infected-one-death-in-chandigarh-217291
25-02-2021||Chandigarh||Man held with banned capsules||Purse snatched from girl in Sec 44Chandigarh: Unknown persons riding an Activa scooter sped away after snatching a purse from a girl in Sector 44. The purse contained a mobile phone, credit and debit cards and some documents. The police have registered a case at the Sector 34 police station. TNS227 CCTVs come up in Sec 17, 43 ISBTsChandigarh: To improve surveillance, as many as 227 CCTV cameras have been installed at both ISBTs in the city. UT Transport Secretary Mandip Singh Brar on Wednesday inaugurated the CCTV surveillance system at the ISBT-43 and the ISBT-17. The tender for installation of the CCTV surveillance system was awarded in October last year for Rs1.32 crore. Ninety-five cameras have come up at the ISBT-43 and 132 devices have been installed at the ISBT-17. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-held-with-banned-capsules-217290
25-02-2021||Mohali||Cap on gatherings in Mohali district||Man held with fake arms, ammoZirakpur: The police arrested a man for making and selling counterfeit arms and ammunition here on Wednesday. The suspect has been identified as Narinder Singh of Sector 38, Chandigarh. He was involved in making fake parts of various weapons. Cops nabbed him at a checkpost in Zirakpur when he was going to deliver weapon parts. They recovered 805 magazines, a magazine case and 45 plastic magazine covers from the suspect. A case has been registered against the suspect. TNSMan’s body found hanging from treeMohali: Mahender Kumar (40) was found hanging from a tree near his rented accommodation in Balongi on Wednesday. The police said it was a case of suspected suicide. The incident came to light around 7 am. TNSCricket tourney from March 7Chandigarh: Chandigarh: Livewire Coaching Centre (LWCC) will organise the 2nd Donate Eyes-Win Hearts T20 Cricket Tournament from March 7. The matches in this championship will be played under the league format, only on weekends. Teams can confirm their entries with the organisers before March 5. TNSKapil Dev inaugurates officeChandigarh: Padma Bhushan recipient Kapil Dev inaugurated an office of Daksh Prem Azad, grandson of the former cricker's coach-cum-mentor DP Azad. Daksh is also honorary secretary of Fatehgarh Sahib District Cricket Association and son of Sanjiv DP Azad, an IRS officer. TNSLaw students sensitise villagersChandigarh: Students of Desh Bhagat University visited Khanian and Khumna villages as part of a legal awareness drive under the Unnat Bharat Abhiyan. Students of law department (LLB and BA LLB) sensitised villagers to issues such as penalties under the Motor Vehicle Act, the writ of habeas corpus, prohibition of dowry and child marriages, etc. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cap-on-gatherings-in-mohali-district-217285
25-02-2021||Chandigarh||Hanuman wins shooting gold||Hanuman Singh won gold in the 50m rifle event on the second day of the ongoing 45th State Shooting Championship being organised by the Chandigarh Rifle Association at Patiala ki Rao Shooting Range on Wednesday.  Hanuman scored 553 points to clinch the top position. In the 50m free pistol event, Devansh claimed the pole position by scoring 519 points. Nischayjeet Singh claimed the 25m free pistol gold, Divyanshu Mittal won the 10m air pistol event, Shika won air pistol event. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hanuman-wins-shooting-gold-217192
25-02-2021||Deepankar Sharda---||Archery Association of India sends legal notice to Chandigarh archery body||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, February 24  The Archery Association of India (AAI) has sent a legal notice to the Chandigarh Archery Association after the latter failed to submit utilisation certificate/supporting bill/voucher against advance payment for conducting 1st National Ranking Archery Tournament in Chandigarh during April 2019. The notice was sent last month after the local association failed to submit the documents despite various reminders.  The association (Chandigarh Archery Association) is headed by Amarinder Singh Bazaz, who is also president of the Chandigarh Olympic Association (COA), along with general secretary Vikram Singh, who is son of Maha Singh, general secretary of COA. The tussle between Bazaz and Maha Singh is already out in the open as they try to re-grab power in COA. Now, this notice has acted as fuel in the fire.  According to the notice,“...Chandigarh Archery Association has not produced any bills to date.  The AAI has been reminding the Chandigarh Archery Association to furnish the documents to which the association has replied vide letter dated November 16, 2020, showing anger and dismay at being questioned. The anomaly flagged by the auditors shall not be resolved unless recorded bills and other documents are furnished...” Officials of the Chandigarh Archery Association remained unavailable for comments on the issue.   “The AAI directed my firm to send a legal notice as they (Chandigarh Archery Association) did not produce bills related to a tourney, so far. I cannot disclose the amount and will initiate next step as per the directions of the AAI,” said Parth Goswami, advocate of the AAI.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/archery-association-of-india-sends-legal-notice-to-chandigarh-archery-body-217193
25-02-2021||---||Classes III-V reopen to thin turnout in Panchkula||Panchkula, February 24Amid rising cases in neighbouring Punjab, schools here re-opened for Classes III to V today. Strict Covid-19 measures were followed by the school authorities.The classes were held for three hours between 10 am and 1:30 pm.Only those with a health certificate and a consent in writing from parents were allowed to enter school premises.Edu Dept yet to compile attendance figuresThough the administration reported low attendance at some government schools on the first day of reopening, the local Education Department didn’t share the overall data, seeking more time to compile the attendance figures.Narender Kumar, acting in charge of Sector 17 Government Model Sanskriti Primary School, said: “All Covid-19 norms are being followed. Classrooms and common rooms are being sanitised regularly. Other mandatory provisions such as hand sanitisers and thermal scanners have also been made on the school premises.”He said a low turnout was witnessed in Classes III to V on the first day. “It was about 10 to 15 per cent,’’ he said.Meanwhile, the Education Department has announced that Classes 1 and 2 will reopen from March 1.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/classes-iii-v-reopen-to-thin-turnout-in-panchkula-217194
25-02-2021||---||Chandigarh lad Yuvraj jumps to second spot||Chandigarh, February 24Local lad Yuvraj Singh Sandhu and Manu Gandas hogged the limelight in the round two of the Glade One Masters 2021, at the Glade One Golf Resort, Ahmedabad.Both 24-year-olds, searching for their maiden wins on the PGTI, have been knocking on the doors of victory for some time now.While Gandas (35-30) of Gurugram produced a fiery bogey-free 6-under-30 featuring five straight birdies to seize the halfway lead at 7-under-65, Sandhu (34-32) was a close second at 6-under-66 after he shot an impressive 4-under-32.Mansukh maintains lead at Samarvir Sahi meetOvernight leader and local contender Mansukh Sandhu continued his good form to maintain the lead on the second day of the Samarvir Sahi Golf Championship at the Chandigarh Golf Club on Wednesday. Sandhu shot a one-over round of 73 to continue to be the tournament leader with a score of 144. He has a clear five-shot lead over Harmanbir Singh Bajwa, who shot two-over to claim the second position at 145. Another Chandigarh lad Raghav Bhandari was tied-3rd with Delhi’s Shourya Bhattacharya at the score of 146. TNSThe four players bunched together in tied third place with a total of 4-under-68 were Bengalureans Khalin Joshi (34) and Trishul Chinnappa (34), Faridabad-based Abhinav Lohan (34) and Om Prakash Chouhan (33) of Mhow.The cut was applied at 2-over-74. A total of 46 professionals made the cut. Gandas, one of India’s leading amateurs before he turned professional in 2015, struck a purple patch on Wednesday as he produced five straight birdies from the second to the sixth thanks largely to a hot putter since he sank three birdie putts from a range of 12 to 20 feet on the stretch. He also had two quality up and downs during this phase on the second and fifth.Sandhu, the 2019 PGTI Feeder Tour Order of Merit champion, had an edgy start as he bogeyed the first with a missed up and down. Sandhu, lying tied-3rd and one off the lead after round one, continued to miss opportunities over the next few holes as his 10-foot putts for birdie didn’t find the hole on the second, third and fourth.Sandhu’s fortunes changed from the fifth onward where he chipped-in for eagle from 20 yards. He sank two long birdies on the sixth and seventh from 10 to 20 feet. On the eighth, a great approach helped him set up a five-footer for his last birdie of the day.“At the start of the day I thought my putter was cold. I was also not feeling my best and had a sore back due to playing in totally different conditions over the past two weeks,” said Sandhu.Abhinav Lohan holed out from 106 yards for his eagle-two on the third during his round of 34.C Muniyappa of Bengaluru had a hole-in-one on the seventh during his round of 33 that placed him tied-8th at 2-under-70. Round one joint leaders M Dharma (38) of Bengaluru and Anshul Patel (41) of Ahmedabad slipped to tied-14th at 1-under-71 and tied-43rd at 2-over-74 respectively.The other two Ahmedabad-based professionals who made the cut were Shravan Desai and Jay Pandya, both tied-28th at 1-over-73.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-lad-yuvraj-jumps-to-second-spot-217195
25-02-2021||---||More special trains for Ambala division||Chandigarh, February 24 The Railways has issued a notice about running more special trains in Ambala Division of Northern Railway. The passengers can now travel from Lucknow to Chandigarh and Ahmedabad to Vaishno Devi-Katra. On March 1, Lucknow-Chandigarh-Lucknow Dainik Superfast Express Special train (05011) will depart from Lucknow at 11:55 pm and reach Chandigarh at 3 pm the next day. On its return journey, Chandigarh-Lucknow Daily Superfast Express Special train (05012) will depart from Chandigarh at 5:15 pm and reach Lucknow at 9 am the next day. Special trains’ en route stoppage will be at Ambala Cantonment, Jagadhri Karkhana, Yamunanagar Jagadhri, Saharanpur, Roorkee, Mauzampur Narayan, Basi Kiratpur, Bijnor, Haldaur, Chandausi, Mandi Dhanaura, Gajraula, Amroha, Moradabad, Chandausi, Shahjahanpur, and Hardhoi. On March 8, Ahmedabad-Mata Vaishno Devi Katra Weekly Express Special train (09415) will depart from Ahmedabad at 8:08 pm and reach Mata Vaishno Devi Katra at 6:35 am. On its return journey, Ahmedabad-Mata Vaishno Devi Katra-Ahmedabad Weekly Express Special train (09416) will depart from Mata Vaishno Devi Katra at 10:40 am every Tuesday and reach Ahmedabad at 10 pm the next day from March 9. This special train en route will stop in both directions at Sabarmati, Mahesana, Palanpur, Abu Road, Falna, Rani, Marwar, Beawar, Ajmer, Kishangarh, Phulera, Jaipur, Gandhinagar, Jaipur, Dausa, Bandikui, Alwar, Khairthal, Rewari, Bhiwani, Hisar, Sirsa, Bathinda , Ferozepur, Jalandhar City, Beas, Amritsar, Batala, Jammu Tavi and Udhampur stations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/more-special-trains-for-ambala-division-217196
25-02-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Entry of outsiders to be regulated at Estate Office||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 24The UT Administration is contemplating on various measures to improve the working of the Estate Office.Flooded with all sorts of complaints from the public, the authorities have decided take a slew of measures such as digitalisation of documents, regulating entry of outsiders and increasing number of appointments.Deputy Commissioner-cum-Estate Officer Mandip Singh Brar today conducted a surprise check at the office. He found that it was little difficult to differentiate between officials and visitors to the office. He directed all employees of the Estate Office and the DC Office to wear their ID cards on the office premises.Online appointments up from 10 to 20 dailyFor regulating and facilitating people coming to the Estate Office, Deputy Commissioner-cum-Estate Officer Mandip Singh Brar said the number of online appointments had been increased from 10 to 20 daily and for inspection of property records, the number of appointments had been increased to 14 from 10 per day.For regulating and facilitating people coming to the Estate Office, Brar said the number of online appointments had been increased from 10 to 20 daily and for inspection of property records, the number of appointments had been increased to 14 from 10 per day.A few days ago, a delegation of the Property Consultants Association had met UT Adviser Manoj Parida and highlighted various problems being faced by them at the Estate Office. They requested the Adviser to do away with the appointment system in the office of Sub-Registrar and the Estate Office, as it caused mismanagement in the offices.The UT Adviser said they were examining the issue of registration of property dealers.On getting complaints that people were not able to get their work done on time due to involvement of employees in digitisation work, he said the department had been directed to complete the digitisation job within two months.“We are taking several steps to make the Estate Office citizen-friendly and bring transparency in its functioning,” he said, while adding that some employees would also be transferred in the process.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/entry-of-outsiders-to-be-regulated-at-estate-office-217199
25-02-2021||Amarjot Kaur||Nodeep Kaur case: Dalit activist Shiv Kumar's medical report reveals 2 fractures, broken toenail beds||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 24Mazdoor Adhikaar Sangathan president Shiv Kumar — who is a co-accused in cases registered against Nodeep Kaur — has eight injuries, including fractures on the left and right foot, that are more than two weeks old, according to a report prepared by a five-doctor board of the GMCH, Sector 32.The board examined the jailed Dalit activist on February 20.Also read: Given the injuries reflected in the report, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has now sought a report of the Shiv Kumar’s medical examination, which was conducted when the Sonepat police arrested him under Section 54 of the CrPC. The court today scheduled March 16 as the next date of hearing in the case of Shiv’s alleged illegal custody and torture.The affidavit submitted by the superintendent of the Sonepat jail to the High Court included a copy of the medical board’s report.According to the report, Shiv, who was taken to the GMCH on February 20 after a High Court order, also showed signs of “post-traumatic stress disorder-like symptoms”. “All injuries are more than two weeks old and were caused by blunt object/weapon,” according to the report prepared by the GMCH board. The board comprising Dr Ashwani Soni, assistant professor of orthopaedics; Dr Mandeep Singh, assistant professor of general surgery; Dr Nidhi Chauhan, assistant professor of psychiatry; Dr Sandeep Moudgil, assistant professor of radiodiagnosis; and Dr Dasari Harish, head of department of forensic medicine and toxicology.It has been alleged that Shiv Kumar was illegally arrested on January 16 and tortured in the police custody. On record, he was booked on January 24, arrested two days later, and has been in the police custody ever since.According to the report, “there is fracture distal phalanx of the second digit of left hand, and fracture of base of metatarsal bone of right foot.” The report also points to “possibly fracture/sesmoid bone” at two other places in the left navicular bone of a foot and right ulna bone of right wrist.The psychiatric assessment read: “He appeared sad and distressed with occasional crying spells. He expressed preoccupation with his current situation, reported predominant anxiety symptoms, flashbacks of brutality meted out to him, nightmares, feelings of loneliness, uncertainty about future and sleep disturbances. Appetite is normal. He denies delusions, hallucination, ideas/plans of self-harm. Overall, evaluation is suggestive of post-traumatic stress disorder-like symptoms.”INJURIES EXAMINED BY DOCTORSAccording to the report, the injuries have been described as:INJURIES 3 & 7 ARE ‘GRIEVOUS’According to the report while injury numbers 1,2,5 and 6 are simple in nature, injury numbers 3 & 7 are grievous. The board said it could not comment on injury numbers 4 and 8, as regards their nature because of possibility of a sesamoid bone fracture||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nodeep-kaur-case-dalit-activist-shiv-kumars-medical-report-reveals-2-fractures-broken-toenail-beds-217200
25-02-2021||---||Panel to manage stray dogs in humane manner in Panchkula||Panchkula, February 24 The Panchkula Municipal Corporation has constituted a monitoring and implementation committee for the effective implementation of a comprehensive scheme for the management of stray dogs, controlling rabies and the stray dog population under the ambit of the law (Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960, under ABC Rules 2001, and directions of the Supreme Court of India and guidelines of the Animal Welfare Board of India) with a humane approach.  RK Singh, MC Commissioner, said to achieve the objective of the scheme, the Municipal Corporation had set up a dog care, hospital, hostel, adoption and rehabilitation centre at Sukhdarshanpur for providing the facility for the treatment of dogs and sterilisation within the framework of law. He said the committee would issue instructions for catching, transportation, sheltering, sterilisation, vaccination, treatment and release of sterilised/vaccinated and treated dogs to their original habitat.  The committee would also seek the co-operation of the Animal Welfare Organisations and NGOs. Apart from this, it would also create public awareness and solicit co-operation. Singh said the committee would keep a watch on the national and international developments in the field of research pertaining to the stray dog control and management, development of vaccines and cost effective methods of sterilization and vaccination. Besides, it would also provide guidelines to pet dog owners and commercial breeders from time to time. He made it clear that cruelty against stray dogs should not be tolerated at any cost.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panel-to-manage-stray-dogs-in-humane-manner-in-panchkula-217201
25-02-2021||Panchkula||Bring helmet in 10 minutes, avoid challan||The Panchkula traffic police have taken a initiative to encourage people to obey the traffic rules. Now, if anyone is caught riding a two-wheeler without a helmet, he/she will be given a second chance to either buy a new helmet or bring it from home, if possible, in 10 minutes to avoid a challan or penalty.  Sukhdev Singh, SHO Traffic Inspector, said they were going an extra mile to create awareness on road safety. Apart from this, nakas were set up and police presence was ensured across the city to take stern action against those who violate the traffic rules, he said. Apart from this, motorists were kept under surveillance through a network of CCTV cameras installed at various spots to deal with offenders. In the past too, the Panchkula traffic police had conducted similar drives to sensitise motorists to traffic rules and road safety. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bring-helmet-in-10-minutes-avoid-challan-217202
25-02-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Builder told to refund Rs 66 lakh for delay in delivery of flat||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 24Stating that a consumer cannot be left at the whims and fancies of a builder, the State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, has directed a builder to refund the entire deposited amount — over Rs66 lakh — to a consumer after it failed to hand over the possession of the flat in the stipulated time.The Commission has also directed the builder to pay a compensation of Rs50,000 for causing mental agony and harassment to the consumer.Rs 50K for mental agonyEesha Mehta, a resident, approached the commission after the builder failed to hand over the flat to her in the fixed time despite full amount being paid. She said she booked residential flat in the project named ‘Sushma Chandigarh Grande’, Bishangarh, Zirakpur, SAS Nagar, Mohali, Punjab, and paid Rs 66.34 lakh for the period from August 5, 2013, to August 4, 2017. However, the possession of the flat was not delivered in 36 months as envisaged in the agreement. Various requests made by the complainants in the matter did not yield any result.Even a legal notice served upon the opposite party (builder) seeking refund of the amount went unanswered. On the other hand, the builder denied all allegations. After hearings the arguments, the Commission found the builder guilty of the violations of the agreement.The Commission said it was a well-settled law that the non-delivery of the possession of plots/units in a developed project by the promised date is a violation on the part of the builder and in those circumstances, the allottee is well within his/her right to seek refund of the amount paid.“Under these circumstances, we are of the opinion that the complainant cannot be made to wait for an indefinite period on the grounds that the builder was willing to compensate the complainants for the period of delay in the possession of the unit,” states the order. The commission directed the builder to refund the entire amount received from the complainants, along with interest @ 9 per cent per annum in 30 days and also to pay a compensation of Rs50,000 for causing mental agony and harassment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/builder-told-to-refund-rs-66-lakh-for-delay-in-delivery-of-flat-217203
25-02-2021||---||Hotel owner booked for  illegal plot advertisements||Panchkula, February 24 The Panchkula police have booked the owner of a private hotel in Sector 32 for alleged unauthorised colonisation and illegal advertisement of those plots without obtaining a licence from the Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) of Haryana. As per DTCP officials, the owner of Hotel North Park, identified as Rahul Sharma, was advertising plots without obtaining a license from the DTCP Haryana in Contravention of Section 7(I)) Of Haryana, Development and Regulation to Urban Area, Act 8. “The site of the hotel falls within the notified urban area of Panchkula and does not have several licences for the carving out of the colony and land,” read the FIR, quoting DTCP officials. The DTCP has urged the police to take action against the “offender” to immediately stop ‘unauthorised colonisation’. The department has also attached advertisement of plots through pamphlets with the site plan as proof, along with video graphs and photographs of the site. A case was registered at the Chandimandir police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hotel-owner-booked-for-illegal-plot-advertisements-217204
25-02-2021||---||‘Highlight issues of public interest’||Mohali, February 24 The Mohali Administration is jotting down the major challenges being faced by the district to find a sustainable solution to these.  “Our officers are on the job, but public participation on the issue is a must. People have a right to flag their concerns,” said Girish Dayalan, Deputy Commissioner. He said people might mail their suggestions at dcmohali1@gmail.com Talking on the nature of issues that people might offer suggestions on, the Deputy Commissioner said the challenges or problems that people wished to highlight must not be of personal nature, but of larger public interest. The suggestions could incorporate immediate issues or those that might in the long term have utility to public.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/highlight-issues-of-public-interest-217205
25-02-2021||Chandigarh||2 found selling imported cigarettes||A team of the Food and Supplies Department and the Legal Metrology Department today conducted checking of cigarette sellers in Sectors 8, 9 and 11 here.The checking was carried out by Manoj Kumar, Assistant Food and Supplies Officer, along with Navneet Kumar and Lalit Mohan, inspector of Legal Metrology. The team checked 11 shops and imported cigarettes were found in two shops, one each in Sector 11 and 8.An official said the notices would be issued to them for violating the rules. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-found-selling-imported-cigarettes-217206
25-02-2021||  Chandigarh||Traders’ body to coordinate with police||Kamaljit Singh Panchhi, chairman, Police Co-ordination Committee of Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, has announced an 11-member committee to look after the day-to-day problems of the city.  He said SubhashNaarang would be the vice-chairman of the committee. Other members of the committee include Anil Vohra, BaljinderGujral, Balwinder Singh, RadheLal, Raajan Mahajan, Harjit Singh, PS Sodhi, Sudhir Jain, Jaspal Singh and Rajiv Manchanda.  He said chairman and president of Chandigarh BeoparMandal would be Ex-Officio members of the committee.  Panchhi said that the committee would co-ordinate with Chandigarh Administration and Police department to peacefully sort out the issues of traders in various markets.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/traders-body-to-coordinate-with-police-217207
25-02-2021||---||JJP seeks Senior Dy Mayor’s post||Panchkula, February 24The Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) has demanded the post of Senior Deputy Mayor from the BJP, its alliance partner. The elections are expected to be held soon.OP Sihag, district president (urban) of the party, made the demand through a press note today. He said, “The Senior Deputy Mayor should be from our party. As the BJP-JJP contested the Panchkula Municipal Corporation elections together, the aggressive campaigning by representatives and workers of our party played a key role in ensuring the victory of the alliance against Congress candidates.”Sihag said the BJP got the post of Mayor and the JJP had the right to stake claim to the post of Senior Deputy Mayor.In the 20-member House of the Panchkula Municipal Corporation, the JJP has only two members, while nine represent the BJP. The Congress has seven members, while two are Independents.The BJP had recently appointed Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma as its observer for the elections to the posts of Senior Deputy Mayor and Deputy Mayor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jjp-seeks-senior-dy-mayors-post-217186
25-02-2021||---||2 pvt hospitals in Chandigarh authorised to give jab||Chandigarh, February 24As the nation gears up for the third phase of the Covid vaccination drive to inoculate persons aged 60 and above, the UT Administration is mulling over expanding the vaccination session sites to community centres and health and wellness centres.Also read: The Centre today announced that the vaccination drive for the next target group would begin on March 1. To augment the vaccination facilities, the Centre has assigned two private hospitals – Healing Hospital and Landmark Hospital – to proceed with the vaccination programme.Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, UT, said, “Our aim is to expand the vaccination sites and make at least six community centres functional. Till now, our focus was on the GMSH, Sector 16, and the GMCH, Sector 32. Now, as the vaccination programme reaches the community level, our focus will be on peripheral areas and we will augment the vaccination facilities in these areas.”The Centre had announced that everyone aged 60 and above and those over 45 years with comorbidities would be able to get the Covid vaccine from March 1 for free at government facilities and for a charge at private hospitals.However, Dr Kang said they had been told to vaccinate only those aged 60 and above for now. No information on the paid vaccination facility had been provided to the UT Administration so far, she said.Meanwhile, the mop-up rounds for the vaccination of healthcare workers will end tomorrow. So far, 9,865 healthcare workers have been given the first dose of the targeted 23,237, registering an achievement rate of 42 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-pvt-hospitals-in-chandigarh-authorised-to-give-jab-217187
25-02-2021||---||New strain more transmissible, no room for complacency: PGI Director||Chandigarh, February 24The new strain of coronavirus being observed in India is far more transmissible, leaving no room for any lackadaisical approach. This was stated by Prof Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, while addressing 400 healthcare workers who participated at an open house session held here today.With the cases again surging in some states, including Punjab, an overall downward trend in the country does not necessarily guarantee a continued and consistent decline in cases.The PGI Director said, “This clearly indicates that Covid-19 is very much here and has not gone away as is generally being presumed. So, the threat of getting infected is very much real even now, considering the vulnerability of the healthcare workers,” said Prof Ram as he stressed the urgency for the healthcare workers to go ahead with vaccination.Prof AK Gupta, Medical Superintendent, said, “We work in a scientific institution and we trust the information that does not have any scientific evidence. It rather looks a little strange. So, let us believe in medical science and be safe ourselves and save others as well.”Deliberating on the prevalent myths and misconceptions regarding the vaccine, Kumar Gaurav Dhawan, Deputy Director (Administration), said, “All of us have elder and ailing relatives and young children in our families, so why be a potential source of infection to those for whom we care the most.”Prof Surinder S Pandav, chairman, Covid-19 vaccination committee, stated, “Rumours are being spread on the social media about the efficacy of vaccines. It seems that healthcare workers are hesitating to get inoculated as they might have been influenced by the social media.”Pankaj Malhotra said of over 4,000 healthcare workers inoculated so far, only two became positive for the virus. They were already in the incubation period, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/new-strain-more-transmissible-no-room-for-complacency-pgi-director-217188
25-02-2021||Mohali||2 hurt in LPG cylinder blast at Mohali shop||Two persons sustained serious injuries in an LPG cylinder blast at a utensil shop in Lakhnaur village here today.  The victims, shop owner Mohammad Shakib and Ramu, a helper in a nearby eatery, were rushed to the Civil Hospital where the former’s condition is stated to be serious.  It is learnt that a small cylinder exploded around 2.30 pm when Shakib was allegedly pilfering gas from domestic cylinders into small commercial cylinders. Nearby objects too caught fire. The exact cause of the blast could not be ascertained yet, the police said.  Sohana SHO Bhagwant Singh visited the spot and seized a few commercial cylinders from the shop. The office of a gas agency is located close to the shop. “Two commercial cylinders, four domestic LPG cylinders and 12 small cylinders have been siesed. The statement of the victims could not be taken today. We are probing the matter,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-hurt-in-lpg-cylinder-blast-at-mohali-shop-217189
25-02-2021||Sandeep Rana||From March 1, Chandigarh MC vehicles to lift garbage in entire city||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 24Come Monday, the traditional system of door-to-door waste collection will be a thing of past in the entire city. The MC is all set to launch the second phase of segregation at source and waste collection through its two-bin garbage-lifting vehicles on March 1.In the first phase, which was launched in December, vehicles replaced rehris in Sector 1-30. Now, the MC will cover the remaining sectors too. The collection charges will be added to the water bills of households.“We signed an MoU with the waste collectors today. From Monday, the second phase will be launched covering the entire city for waste collection through our vehicles,” confirmed MC Commissioner KK Yadav.The civic body had earlier registered about 600 collectors to work as helpers or drivers in the vehicles. However, very few of them had turned up for work.Later, the MC held a meeting with waste collectors and agreed to let them keep the entire dry waste. They earn money by selling it. Previously, it was decided that the MC will earn from the dry waste and share the profit with the collectors. This provision has been changed now.The MC also promised them 10 per cent annual hike in wages. Officials said it does not imply that they would collect this increased charges from the residents, but would make arrangements from the civic body’s own system.Officials said sanitary inspectors would now register the collectors at the place of the latter’s work.RWAs had told the MC to start the second phase of the waste segregation and collection project only after convincing the collectors so as to avoid inconvenience to general public.Collected waste to reach three recovery centresAccording to the MC plan, the twin-bin vehicles would directly drop waste at three recovery centres, which are under-construction and going to phase out existing sehaj safai kendras. From the recovery centres, big trucks will transport garbage to the waste processing plant in Sector 25.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/from-march-1-chandigarh-mc-vehicles-to-lift-garbage-in-entire-city-217190
25-02-2021||Sandeep Rana||At 31.1°C, Chandigarh sees warmest Feb day in over a decade||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 24The city today witnessed its warmest February day in over a decade.The maximum temperature today rose to 31.1°C, seven degrees above normal. The city has not seen such a warm day in February since 2011. The Chandigarh Meteorological Department does not have the record prior to 2011.Last year, the highest maximum temperature was 26.4°C on February 21, while in 2019, it was 25.6°C on February 22. The highest maximum temperature in February remained between 23°C and 29°C from 2011 to 2020. However, the all-time record is 32.8°C, which was recorded on February 20 in 1954.On the warmest February day today in over a decade, a senior Met official said generally February witnessed about four to five western disturbances in the region. However, this time it hadn’t happened due to which the current month was warmer.Nikita, a college student from Sector 47, said, “These days, it seems the summer season has arrived in February itself. The past few days have been hot. All our family members have stopped woollens.”“We are not taking heavy quilts for the past few days at night. We are finding even blankets too much to bear with at night. We wish it rains soon,” said Ravi Kumar, a resident of Sector 56. Meanwhile, the minimum temperature in the city today was 11.6°C, two degrees above normal.Expect light rain tomorrowThe weatherman has predicted light rain on Friday. However, Thursday will see a clear sky. The coming days are not going to see much of a change in the temperature.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/at-31-1%C2%B0c-chandigarh-sees-warmest-feb-day-in-over-a-decade-217191
