26-02-2021||Chandigarh||Man hangs self to death at Burail||Wushu meet from todayMohali: Chandigarh University, Gharuan, will organise the 29th edition of Senior National Men & Women Wushu Championship from February 26 to March 2. Weight categories Under 44 kg, U-48 kg, U-52 kg, U-56 kg, U-60 kg, U-65 kg, U-70 kg, U-75 kg, over-75 kg (men) and U-40 kg, U-44 kg, U-48 kg, U-52 kg, U-56 kg, U-60 kg, U-65 kg and over-65 kg (women) will be organised. TNSFootball tourney kicks off todayChandigarh: Wunder School, New Chandigarh, will organise the first open football tournament on February 26 and 27. The championship will be conducted in the boys’ U-12, U-14 and open categories. The winners will be given with cash awards along with trophies and individual prizes. TNSHockey trials on February 27Chandigarh: Hockey Chandigarh will organise trials at the Sector 42 Sports Complex on February 27 at 2 pm to select a women’s junior team. The selected team will represent the city in the upcoming 11th Hockey India Junior Women Championship, at Simdega (Jharkhand) from April 3 to 12. According to Anil Vohra, general secretary, players born on and after January 1, 2002 will be eligible to participate in the trials. The players have to bring original Aadhaar card with complete date of birth, original birth certificate, bonafide certificate from their respective school and photo with white background. TNSUTCA’s tourney schedule approvedChandigarh: The schedule for internal tournaments of the Union Territory Cricket Association (UTCA), Chandigarh, as approved by an internal committee, has been approved by BCCI secretary Jai Shah. Chandigarh will soon witness mutual competitions among UT players after the BCCI’s domestic season, said UTCA president Sanjay Tandon. The tournaments will be held in all seven formats – U-16, U-19, U-23 and seniors for men/boys and U-19, U-23 and seniors for women/girls. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-hangs-self-to-death-at-burail-217527
26-02-2021||Chandigarh||Sensory park project delayed||A project of setting up a sensory park of Chandigarh Smart City Limited for people with special needs in Sector 22-D has been delayed further.  Not even a single company has filed technical bids for the project. The bids for this Rs1.70 crore project were to be opened today.   An official said the company undertaking the project would be responsible for its maintenance for five-year after building it. It seems big players are not interested for the maintenance part.  “Now, the tender will be refloated once again. If even after that no response is received, officials will look at changing some norms,” said a smart city official.  Tenders for most smart city projects had to be floated several times, before they found takers. Officials reason that these are new projects and there are not many players in them.  Earlier, there was a planning to build the park in Sector 35, but later the site in front of the Sector 22-D gurdwara was finalised. The park will have a combination of sensory-integrated play equipment and amenities, along with the green area. The park will stimulate the five senses — taste, sight, touch, smell and hearing.  The purpose of this initiative is to provide individual and combined sensory opportunities to users, who may not normally experience them. The park will have four zones — equipment, play, experiential and nature. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sensory-park-project-delayed-217515
26-02-2021||---||Devansh claims lead in three events||Chandigarh, February 25Shooter Devansh Vashishth led in three events during the ongoing 45th State Shooting Championship being organised by the Chandigarh Rifle Association at the Patiala Ki Rao Shooting range today.Vashishth claimed first lead in the 50m free pistol event by scoring 521 points out of 600. In 25m pistol event, he posted 285 points and in the 25m sports pistol event, he posted 271 points to claim lead.Meanwhile, in the 25m sports pistol event, Arrvav Kaushal claimed lead with 275 points and Kerit Kaur scored 240 points to claim lead in the girls’ sports pistol event.In the boys’ 10m air pistol event, Govind Singh claimed lead by scoring 372 points. In air pistol ISSF event, Kaushal claimed the lead with 555 points.Babu Ram scored 539 points to march ahead in the 50m free pistol event and Mohit Sandhu scored 572 points to claim lead in the 50m rifle event during the championship.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/devansh-claims-lead-in-three-events-217516
26-02-2021||---||Surprise checks on fertiliser, seed vendors||Mohali, February 25 A team of the Agriculture Department, under the supervision of Chief Agriculture Officer Dr Rajesh Kumar Raheja, carried out surprise checks on fertiliser, seed and pesticide vendors and dealers in the Dera Bassi block. Divulging details, Agriculture Officer Gurbachan Singh said dealers had been instructed to issue bills for each items purchased by farmers. If anyone was found not following government directions, then action would be taken against him or her as per the law. He asked the dealers to keep documents complete in respect of selling or purchasing fertilisers. He also asked them to provide high-quality agriculture material to farmers as recommended by Punjab Agriculture University, Ludhiana, so that farmers do not have to face financial losses. Dr Jaswinder Singh, Agriculture Development Officer, asked the farmers that they should interact with agriculture experts before purchasing agriculture material.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/surprise-checks-on-fertiliser-seed-vendors-217517
26-02-2021||---||Mansukh continues 2-day overnight lead in golf c’ship||Chandigarh, February 25Local lad Mansukh Sandhu continued his two-day overnight lead on the third day of the Samarvir Sahi Golf Championship at Chandigarh Golf Club here today.Sandhu lead the day with a score of 2-under- 214. He secured a clear six-shot lead. He is followed by another Chandigarh lad Raghav Bhandari and Delhi’s Shouraya Bhattacharaya at tied-2nd position with a score of 4-over-220.Anant Singh Alawat of Haryana claimed third spot with 3-under-69, followed by Shubam Jagalan of Delhi also had a 2-under-72.Meanwhile, after 54 holes, the highlight of the day was a 1-under-par 71 round by veteran Chandigarh golfer HS Kang, senior most golfer in the field.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mansukh-continues-2-day-overnight-lead-in-golf-cship-217520
26-02-2021||Chandigarh||CII, Chandigarh Smart City Limited sign pact||The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and Chandigarh Smart City Ltd (CSCL) signed a MoU here today to work closely with in the area of energy, green building, water and sustainability. KK Yadav, MC Commissioner and CEO of the CSCL, signed the MoU with the CII. Commenting on the MoU, Yadav said: “We hope to work closely with the CII’s Centres of Excellence (CoEs) in the area of energy, green building, water and sustainability”. Dr SPS Grewal, chairman, CII, Chandigarh, said the CII would extend support of its Centres of Excellence (CoEs) for Smart City projects in Chandigarh. The CII, in partnership with the CSCL, would create industry engagement platform for diverse areas under Smart cities such as IT, transportation & mobility, waste management, water management and urban planning. In addition, the CII would work towards leveraging external expertise of its partners towards this project, including international industry bodies, institutions and subject experts. Manish Gupta, vice-chairman, CII, Chandigarh; Dev Jyoti, Director & Head, CII, Chandigarh; and NP Sharma, Chief General Manager, Chandigarh Smart City Ltd, were also present. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cii-chandigarh-smart-city-limited-sign-pact-217521
26-02-2021||---||Digitisation work picks up pace at Estate Office||Chandigarh, February 25 To improve efficiency, the UT Administration has speeded up digitisation work at the Estate Office. Radhika Singh, Secretary, Chandigarh Housing Board, and Director, Museum and Art Gallery, has been directed to assist in monitoring and overseeing the digitisation process at the Estate Office. An order issued by Mandip Singh Brar, Deputy Commissioner-cum-Estate Officer, stated that Radhika would continuously engage with the Estate Office and the National Informatics Centre (NIC) to ensure that the digitisation process meets the timeline and quality parameters. She would also monitor the online process, re-engineering as well as other timelines in the MoU with the NIC. Brar also sought a weekly progress report in this regard. In a recent meeting with UT Adviser Manoj Parida, the Property Consultants Association had submitted that the entire working of the Estate Office had been disturbed in the name of digitisation. Target dates given for various jobs such as transfer of property, issuance of NOC and even information under the RTI Act were not being supplied on time, they said. They suggested that that the digitisation job should be handed over to some private agency or some separate branch be started and the Estate Office staff be asked to concentrate on their routine work.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/digitisation-work-picks-up-pace-at-estate-office-217523
26-02-2021||---||Only 74 health workers grab last chance||Panchkula, February 25 Even though it was the last chance for the registered healthcare workers to get the first dose of Covid vaccine, only 74 workers turned up for the same today. The Health Department said 1,826 had missed the first dose against the fixed target till the deadline. “Some of them were ineligible (expectant or lactating mothers or with chronic disorders). We will reach out to them later,” said CMO Dr Jasjeet Kaur. She said it was the last and final call to all healthcare workers for the first dose and they had fixed a target of 2,000 beneficiaries. Overall, 421 beneficiaries, including 191 frontline workers, were administered the Covid vaccine. The vaccination drive was held at five sites, including the Sector 6 Civil Hospital and Alchemist Hospital. Over 11,000 beneficiaries have been vaccinated in the district so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/only-74-health-workers-grab-last-chance-217524
26-02-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Chandigarh Olympic Association office-bearers meet IOA president||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 25If office-bearers of the Chandigarh Olympic Association (COA) would have worked hard to conduct a single tournament in the past 14 years, this day would have never come when they meet the Indian Olympic Association (IOA) president just for a show of strength to gain claim of the next four-year term.Trying every possible way to grab COA’s power, one of the factions of the association met the IOA chief Narinder Dhruv Batra, on his personal visit to Chandigarh and attending the annual general elections of the Table Tennis Federation of India (TTFI), held in Panchkula on Wednesday.Instead of discussing COA’s performance and achievements, the purpose of the meeting was ‘show of strength’ to get Batra’s support in the upcoming elections scheduled for March 17.‘Performance and achievements’ perhaps are never part of the COA functioning as it failed to conduct any activity in the past 14 years, which was also highlighted by Batra. Sources, who attended the meeting, confirmed that Batra snubbed some office-bearers for doing nothing in all these years and directed them to include ‘sports promoters’ instead of ‘opportunistic’.“The meeting was fine until some office-bearers started talking about the number of units affiliated with the association as a mark of strength to impress Batra. However, he (Batra) clearly said that he is on a personal visit and will not hear anything about the strength,” said a source.“He (Batra) clearly said it’s high time that the COA should bring some people for promoting sports. One of the former Chandigarh Police personnel, who is also a member of the COA, argued that bringing some other people would lead to revolt, to which he (Batra) replied that those who believe in revolt and doing nothing to promote should be immediate shunted out from any sports association,” confirmed the source.Sources also maintained that other faction of the COA also met Batra and claimed its stakes in the association. Action on the cards!Sources claimed that the general house of the COA was expected to announce some action against allotting fake affiliations to the association and over financial bungling on Friday. “Yes, for the first time in the history of the COA, action has been taken against the culprits. A notification in this regard will be made public soon,” said a source.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-olympic-association-office-bearers-meet-ioa-president-217525
26-02-2021||---||1,900 get Covid vaccine in city||Chandigarh, February 25 As many as 1,900 beneficiaries were administered Covid-19 vaccine in the city on Thursday against the target of 7,675, registering a coverage rate of 24.75 per cent. As many as 10,564 healthcare workers have been administered the first dose of the Covid vaccine so far against the target of 24,516. The achievement rate stood at 43.09 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-900-get-covid-vaccine-in-city-217526
26-02-2021||---||2 bike thieves land  in Panchkula police net||Panchkula, February 25The Sector 26 Crime Branch of the Panchkula police today claimed to have arrested two bike lifters in the district. The police also recovered nine stolen motorcycles from their possession.The suspects have been identified as Avtar Singh, alias Taru (25), a resident of Naggal village in Panchkula, and Lakhan Pal, alias Lucky (23), a resident of Jaloli village in Panchkula.Inspector Aman Kumar, in-charge of the Sector 26 Crime Branch, said acting on a tip-off, they arrested Lakhan Pal with two stolen bikes from Sector 26 here today.The suspect had stolen one of the two recovered bikes from Sector 11 on January 26. A case was registered under Section 379 of the IPC at the Sector 5 police station.He was produced before a local court, which sent him to judicial custody.Avtar Singh was arrested from Ramgarh yesterday. The police recovered seven stolen motorcycles from his possession. He was produced before a court, which sent to one-day police remand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-bike-thieves-land-in-panchkula-police-net-217518
26-02-2021||Mohali||Haryana native held with pistol, three live cartridges||The Mohali police have arrested a person for possessing a country made pistol and three live cartridges late last night. The suspect has been identified as Sandeep Kumar, a resident of Alipur village in Jind district, Haryana. Divulging details, SSP Satinder Singh said a police team, led by Inspector Sukhbir Singh, in-charge of the Lalru police station, was present on the slip road near Government School, Lalru. The police saw a man coming from Lalru towards the ITI. After seeing the police, the suspect turned back. The police nabbed him after a brief chase. During his search, the police recovered a country made pistol and three live cartridges from his possession. A case under Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered against the suspect at the Lalru police station. During preliminary investigations, the suspect revealed that he had purchased the weapon from a person in the Kishanganj area of Rajasthan to create terror in the area. The suspect was today produced before a court, which remanded him to judicial custody. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/haryana-native-held-with-pistol-three-live-cartridges-217519
26-02-2021||---||Court slaps fine on 7 for not wearing mask||Chandigarh, February 25A local court has imposed fine on seven persons for their failure to wear mask in public places and violating curfew orders imposed by the District Magistrate to prevent the spread of Covid-19 in the city.The court imposed the fine after the police presented the challans against them in the court for trial. The police sent the challans after registering an FIR against the violators under Section 188 of the IPC.Face mask was made compulsory for everyone in the city after the lockdown was imposed and not wearing it was made a punishable offence. Apart from police personnel, certain officers of the Administration and the MC were also authorised to issue challans for this offence. The challans were presented before the court of TPS Randhawa, Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, Chandigarh. After hearing the cases, the court imposed fines on violators ranging from Rs500 to Rs1,000 after they pleaded guilty voluntarily.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/court-slaps-fine-on-7-for-not-wearing-mask-217500
26-02-2021||Panchkula||Inquiry marked into irregularities at Raipur Rani anganwadi centre||While taking a strict cognisance of a complaint regarding irregularities in the supply of foodgrains at an anganwadi centre in Natwal village of Raipur Rani, the Haryana Minister of State for Women and Child Development, Kamlesh Dhanda, today marked an inquiry into the matter.Seeking a report within a week, the minister directed higher officials of the department to ensure timely investigation and take strict action against those found guilty.According to officials, the stock of foodgrains being supplied at the anganwadi centre in Natwal village of Raipur Rani was insufficient.Local villagers had flagged this issued before the minister. Taking cognisance, the minister of state said that it was a serious matter and those, who were involved in this, would not be spared at any cost. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/inquiry-marked-into-irregularities-at-raipur-rani-anganwadi-centre-217507
26-02-2021||---||Chouhan takes lead, local lad Yuvraj slips||Chandigarh, February 25Om Prakash Chouhan of Mhow produced a super 8-under-64 while Manu Gandas of the DLF Golf and Country Club, Gurugram, shot a determined 5-under-67, as the duo held the joint third round lead at 12-under-132, three shots ahead of the rest at the Glade One Masters in Ahmedabad.Panchkula’s Angad Cheema also fired a brilliant 7-under-65 to lie third at 9-under-135.Bengaluru’s Chikkarangappa, the winner on the PGTI last week, carded a 67 to be placed tied fourth at 6-under-138 along with Yuvraj Singh Sandhu of Chandigarh, who slipped two spots from his overnight second after returning a 72 on Thursday.The unique format for the tournament is as follows. The first two rounds consisted of nine holes each. The cut was applied after 18 holes. The third and fourth rounds will now comprise 18 holes each. The tournament will be played over a total of 54 holes.Delhi’s Rashid Khan and rookie Harshjeet Singh Sethie, another Delhi-based golfer, posted scores of 66 to be tied-6th at 5-under-139 along with PGTI Order of Merit leader Karandeep Kochhar (67) of Chandigarh, Bengaluru’s M Dharma (68) and Gurugram’s Veer Ahlawat (69). Pune-based Udayan Mane, India’s highest ranked golfer in the world, shot a 75 to be tied-41st at 4-over-148.Among the three Ahmedabad-based professionals, Shravan Desai and Jay Pandya were both placed tied 46th at 6-over-150 while Anshul Patel was placed 56th at 11-over-155.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chouhan-takes-lead-local-lad-yuvraj-slips-217509
26-02-2021||Chandigarh||PFUCTO protests delinking of pay scales||Under the banner of the Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisation (PFUCTO), hundreds of teachers working in Panjab University and colleges of Chandigarh, Hoshiarpur and Mohali held a joint dharna today at Panjab University against the decision of the Punjab Government to delink their pay scales from the seventh CPC-UGC pay scales.The PUTA president, Dr Mritunjay Kumar, said with this decision decades old statutes/rules/regulations governing the service conditions and pay scales of the university and college teachers stand violated. “Whereas the Punjab Government has decided to follow the seventh CPC pay-scale matrix for its civilian employees from now on, it has denied the same seventh CPC-UGC pay scales to university and college teachers,” he added.Other speakers pointed out that this delinking would give rise to multiple problems. Since Chandigarh follows Punjab in service matters, the higher education ecosystem of both Punjab and Chandigarh would be completely isolated from the national mainstream, they said. They emphasised that most states and UTs, except for Punjab, Chandigarh and HP had already implemented the seventh CPC-UGC pay scales.Dr Harmeet Singh Kingra, Dr BS Tohra, Dr Ghanshyam Dev and Dr Madhu Sharma also addressed protesters. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pfucto-protests-delinking-of-pay-scales-217510
26-02-2021||Chandigarh||Satya Pal Jain appointed member of panel for examining PU reforms||The Additional Solicitor General, Satya Pal Jain, has been nominated as the nominee of the Vice-President and the Chancellor of Panjab University (PU) for a high-level committee of experts to examine various facets of the Panjab University governing reforms.This committee was constituted by the Vice-President on February 8. The committee of experts will examine various facets of the existing governance structure of the PU. The committee has 11 members, in which there was to be one nominee of the PU Chancellor.Jain has been associated with the PU for a long time now. He has been a member of the Panjab University Senate for 40 years. He has completed 10 terms of four year each as a member of the PU Senate. He has been a member of the PU Syndicate as well as dean, PU faculty of law.Chairman of committeeIn a communication, office of the PU Chancellor, said, “The committee shall be chaired by Vice-Chancellor, Central University of Punjab, Bathinda. The other committee members are member, UGC; the Director, IIT, Ropar; the Director, IIM, Amritsar; Prof KN Pathak, former PU Vice-Chancellor; the PU Vice-Chancellor; a nominee of the Chairman, UGC; a Vice-Chancellor of a state government university to be nominated by the Punjab Chief Minister; the DPI (Colleges), Punjab; the Director (Higher Education), UT Administration; and the PU Registrar, member secretary.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/satya-pal-jain-appointed-member-of-panel-for-examining-pu-reforms-217512
26-02-2021||Chandigarh||Monkey detention: Accused challenges maintainability of  Forest Dept application||Accused in the monkey detention case has challenged the legal maintainability of the application of the Department of Forest and Wildlife Chandigarh for filing fresh complaint in the case.In the reply filed through counsels Harlove Singh Rajput and Suvir Sidhu accused Kamaljeet Singh and other said the application for filing fresh complaint was not maintainable as per the law, which was settled by the Supreme Court in various cases. They said the department on January 15, 2021, filed a new application for lodging a fresh complaint. The case came for hearing in the Court of Lovejinder Kaur, JMIC, on Thursday.Citing various decisions of the apex court the counsels said the Supreme Court held that a fresh complaint could only be entertained after the dismissal of the first complaint and that too in exceptional circumstances. A fresh FIR was similar to the earlier complaint filed against the accused, they added.The only change in the said complaint would be the mention of an FIR number 001 dated August 21, 2020, registered under the Wildlife Protection Act, they said. A complaint was moved for the registration of an FIR against the accused by the complainant to the Sector 36 police station SHO on August 18, 2020, they added. The counsels claimed that fresh complaint against the accused was also not maintainable as the first complaint was pending adjudication before this court.“The application is nothing, but abuse of process of law and against the interest of justice. It is a complete violation of fundamental rights of the accused,” the counsels said. They demanded dismissal of the application moved by the complainant. Tattoo artist Kamaljeet Singh and his manager Deepak were arrested by the Forest Department on August 19, 2020, for allegedly confining a monkey and exhibiting it by sharing its picture along with him on his Instagram account. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/monkey-detention-accused-challenges-maintainability-of-forest-dept-application-217513
26-02-2021||---||Chandigarh likely to get Rs 70 cr||Chandigarh, February 25The UT Administration is likely to get nearly Rs70 crore from the Centre for development of 13 villages, merged with the Municipal Corporation (MC) in 2019. The UT authorities had sought funds for providing amenities in the villages during a meeting of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Finance, held in Delhi recently.In a report tabled in the parliament during the Budget Session, the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Home Affairs stated that Chandigarh was allocated Rs5,138.10 crore in the Budget estimates of 2020-21, which was Rs520.13 crore less than the projected amount of Rs5,658.23 crore.The committee was of the view that this significant shortfall would adversely affect development of the 13 villages transferred to the MC.On the condition of infrastructure, the committee felt a sense of urgency in allocating more funds to the UT to provide drinking water, sewerage system, storm water drainage system, streetlights, roads and horticulture works in 13 villages.The committee recommended the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) to take up the matter of increasing the allocation to the UT with the Ministry of Finance at revised estimates stage.The committee observed that there were 22 villages under the jurisdiction of the MC out of which 13 were transferred to the civic body in 2019.The infrastructure for services like drinking water supply, sewerage system and storm water drainage system was laid in these village around 15 to 20 years ago. As these villages are in the vicinity of Chandigarh, so their population increased enormously due to which infrastructure had become inadequate.It had been observed that sewer lines in these villages were under sized due to which sewage overflowed in streets and damaged roads.The blockage in sewer lines also contaminated the water supply. Drinking water supply needs augmentation to bring its level at par with the urban norms. Due to increasing urbanisation in these villages the kachcha area was getting paved day by day and construction was also being done on the vacant land, which led to shortage of space for the disposal of storm water. So, storm water draining system also needs attention in these villages.Less Budget allocationThe City Beautiful was allocated Rs5,138.10 crore in the 2020-21 Budget estimates, which was Rs520.13 crore less than the projected amount of Rs5,658.23 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-likely-to-get-rs-70-cr-217506
26-02-2021||Chandigarh||Rose Fest starts today||The three-day 49th Rose Festival, dedicated to Covid warriors, will start tomorrow at Rose Garden.Manoj Parida, UT Adviser, will inaugurate the fest while Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma will be the guest of honour. No events will be organised during the festival this time due to Covid. It will be a symbolic fest this year.A total of 829 varieties of rose will be displayed from February 26-28. The MC will honour frontline and other warriors on February 28. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rose-fest-starts-today-217501
26-02-2021||---||Speak up, says Hry DGP on child sexual abuse||Panchkula, February 25Emphasising the need for collective efforts to prevent child sexual abuse, Haryana Director General of Police (DGP) Manoj Yadava said today that people should encourage a “speak-up culture” in society and raise their voice against the social evil.The DGP was speaking at the launch of a statewide social awareness campaign, “Hifazat”, organised by the Haryana State Commission for Protection of Child Rights and the Haryana Police in Panchkula.Stressing the need for making people aware about “sahaj, sajag, surakshit’ childhood, he said child sexual abuse was a heinous crime.‘Need to be aware’Children are targeted even by those whom they trust the most. It is unfortunate that sexual harassment issues are not openly discussed in society. Citizens need to be were well aware of the issues. —Manoj Yadava, DGP“Children are targeted even by those whom they trust the most. It is unfortunate that sexual harassment issues are not openly discussed in society,” he said.He said a safe and healthy childhood could only be ensured when citizens were well aware of these issues.Yadava said the Haryana Police had decided to make all women police stations child-friendly. “Under this, a child-friendly room will be set up at the women police stations in the state where people visiting the police stations can leave their children for sometime. All necessary arrangements such as toys will be made for children there,” he said. On the occasion, the DGP also unveiled a police board related to the campaign that will be installed at all police stations across the state. He also flagged off the campaign flagship information vehicle, Hifazat Express. Earlier, a “nukkad natak” for spreading awareness on child sexual abuse was also staged. Kala Ramachandran, ADGP (Crime against Women), Haryana, said it was necessary to protect children from sexual abuse and other forms of exploitation to ensure a healthy society. Dr Rakesh Gupta, Commissioner and Secretary, Department of Women and Child Development, said a comprehensive effort was needed to stop child sexual abuse.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/speak-up-says-hry-dgp-on-child-sexual-abuse-217504
26-02-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Smooth ride on mind, Chandigarh begins repair work||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 25To provide a seamless ride, the UT Engineering Department has started repair work on cycle tracks in the city.To encourage non-motorised mode of transport, the UT Administration has laid 210-km-long dedicated tracks for cycling in the city.However, damaged tracks have put a brake on the popularity of pedalling, which has dual benefits of improving health and air quality.Cycle tracks in Sector 32, 33, 39, 40, 42, 43, 45, 46, 52 and 53 need immediate attention of the authorities.Cycling enthusiasts say they face obstacles such as damaged track and uneven surfaces, which break the rhythm.‘Danger to life’Sometimes, it is dangerous to cycle on these tracks due to uneven surface, accumulation of rainwater and abrupt turns. —Surender Singh, Sec 21 residentA regular user of cycle tracks, Surender Singh, a resident of Sector 21, said it wasn’t a smooth ride at all on cycle tracks. “Sometimes, it is dangerous to cycle on these tracks due to uneven surface, accumulation of rainwater and abrupt turns,” he said, adding that the ride was regularly hampered at inter-sections too.A separate track for cyclists was a good initiative of the UT Administration, but it should be maintained regularly, said Aman Verma, a resident of Sector 7. He said the authorities should also ensure amenities such as cycle stands and water points at regular intervals. UT Chief Engineer CB Ojha said patch work on cycle tracks had already been started, while the recarpeting work of damaged stretches would begin in the first week on March. He said a total of 12 km would be covered under recarpeting work in different areas of the city. After the lockdown, residents have started opting for cycling to maintain fitness. To encourage cycling in the city, the Administration has spent nearly Rs22 crore in the past five years on developing infrastructure.Cycle tracks to come up in Industrial Area, DhanasThe UT Administration is working on widening of the road from the Poultry Farm chowk to the CTU workshop in the Industrial Area, Phase 1. At the same time, cycle tracks will be constructed along the road on the stretch. Similarly, a cycle track will be constructed from the marble market in Dhanas up to Mullanpur. Tenders have been floated for both tracks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/smooth-ride-on-mind-chandigarh-begins-repair-work-217496
26-02-2021||Mohali||Woman found dead under mysterious circumstances||A 23-year-old woman, a migrant labour, was found dead under mysterious circumstances in her room at Amb Sahib Colony in Jagatpura village near Mohali today.The deceased has been identified as Manju Rani. She was married to Kamal over two years ago and had a one-and-a-half-year-old son from the marriage. The incident came to light this morning when neighbours opened the door of the room and found her dead. They immediately informed the police.Deceased’s brother Neeraj Kumar alleged that his sister was beaten to death by her husband. He said his brother-in-law was responsible for the death as his sister had bruises on her neck. He claimed that Kamal, who is absconding, was present in the house late last night.The police have sent the victim’s body to the Phase 6 government hospital for a post-mortem examination. Colony president Satish said the girl was a native of Badayun in Uttar Pradesh and her father-in-law, Udhal, was a vendor. Udhal said both his son and daughter-in-law used to quarrel and did not let him intervene. Deep Kanwal, DSP City-2, said investigations were on in the case. He said the statements of the deceased’s family were being recorded and the next course of action would be taken in the case after receiving the post-mortem report. Efforts were on to nab the suspect. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-found-dead-under-mysterious-circumstances-217498
26-02-2021||Sandeep Rana||‘Ensure outsourced workers aren’t charged illegally’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 25In the wake of complaints that consultancy agencies are illegally collecting money from poor outsourced employees working in various government wings, the UT Adviser has directed the heads of all departments to ensure that no extortion takes place.“It has been reported that many manpower suppliers, who are selected through the GeM (Government e-Marketplace), are collecting money illegally from workers. The workers were engaged earlier on the promise that they would be re-engaged,” Adviser Manoj Parida said in his communication to the department heads.‘Manpower suppliers collecting money’It has been reported that many manpower suppliers, who are selected through the GeM (Government e-Marketplace), are collecting money illegally from workers. The workers were engaged earlier on the promise that they would be re-engaged. —Manoj Parida, Adviser“All secretaries/heads of departments are directed to ensure that such unfair practice/extortion does not take place. The outsourced employees should not be forced to pay any obligation of any kind to the contractors/service providers,” Parida said.Senior officers of the MC had earlier washed their hands of the complaints saying that the matter was between contractors and outsourced employees and the corporation had nothing to do with it.Outsourced employees are allegedly being asked to pay one-month salary to the agencies each year or lose their job to pave the way for new hiring.Complaints were made to MC officials against an outsourcing agency for allegedly asking for Rs15,000 each year from poor contractual employees. After no action was taken by the MC, a complaint in this was sent to the Adviser.In September last year, high drama had prevailed at the Sector 29 nursery of the MC where gardeners alleged that a contractor was charging them Rs2,000 per month from their salaries for letting them continue with the job. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) workers had then made a video of contractor’s men and complained to the MC Commissioner.The MC chief had asked the Executive Engineer of the horticulture wing to probe the matter. “How can the head of a department against which the complaint was made probe it. It should have been referred to the UT Vigilance wing,” said one of the affected employees on the condition of anonymity while alleging inaction on the part of the MC. “Most employees have paid. Our hard-earned money should be refunded,” said a driver hired through a contractor. Workers said apart from the MC, the practice was prevalent in other departments too.AAP Chandigarh convener Prem Garg said, “After the Adviser’s direction, employees can show circulars to the contractors if they ask for money. The contractors must follow this order. In case they don’t, we will expose them.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ensure-outsourced-workers-arent-charged-illegally-217499
26-02-2021||Chandigarh||Warmest February day since 2011||From 31.1°C on Wednesday, the maximum temperature rose to 31.6°C on Thursday, which is seven degrees above normal. The maximum temperature clocked a new high on Thursday since 2011.The all-time record for the month is 32.8°C, witnessed on February 20, 1954. The past few days have been sunny, making the weather warmer. The weatherman has predicted light rain on Friday. However, the temperature in the following days is unlikely to witness much change.The minimum temperature recorded in the city on Thursday was 13.1°C. It is three degrees above normal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/warmest-february-day-since-2011-217530
