27-02-2021||Chandigarh||60 new Covid cases recorded in Chandigarh||Chandigarh recorded 60 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the infection count to 21,719, a medical bulletin issued here said.No COVID-19-related death was reported on Saturday. The death toll stands at 351, it said.The number of active cases rose from 322 on Friday to 357 on Saturday, as per the bulletin.A total of 25 patients were discharged after they recovered from infection, taking the overall recoveries to 21,011, it said.A total of 2,53,339 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 2,30,669 have tested negative while reports of 78 samples were awaited, the bulletin added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/60-new-covid-cases-recorded-in-chandigarh-218305
27-02-2021||Chandigarh||Hottest Feb day since ’54; rain in Chandigarh||Amid a continuous rise in temperature, the city experienced light rain with thunderstorm this evening. However, the maximum temperature clocked a new high in February since 1954 today. The city recorded the maximum temperature of 32.7°C. The minimum temperature hovered around 8°C. The all-time record for the month is 32.8°C, witnessed on February 20, 1954. The past few days have been sunny, making the weather warmer.The weatherman has predicted mainly clear sky for the next three days. However, the temperature in the following days is unlikely to witness change. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hottest-feb-day-since-54-rain-in-chandigarh-218012
27-02-2021||Chandigarh||Heritage chair sold for Rs 4.57L in US||In yet another auction of heritage furniture from the city, an armchair was sold for Rs4.57 lakh at an auction in the USA yesterday. Ajay Jagga, member, Heritage Protection Cell, Chandigarh, said the armchair originally belonged to UT administrative buildings. Five heritage items — a pair of stools, a pair of chairs, an easy chair, a desk and a dining table — designed by Pierre Jeanneret, would be put up for auction in Paris on February 27, he said, adding that the artifacts could fetch nearly Rs33 lakh at the auction in Paris. Similarly, a cabinet from the High Court has been listed for auction at Chippendale in Australia on March 2. “The cabinet with three doors and two drawers and open shelving to the reverse is likely to be auctioned for nearly Rs4.57 lakh to Rs6.85 lakh,” Jagga said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/heritage-chair-sold-for-rs-4-57l-in-us-218016
27-02-2021||Saurabh Malik||HC raps Panjab University for harassing law student||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 26In a major embarrassment for Panjab University, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has not only rapped it for acting in an arbitrary manner, but also for taking the “most unreasonable stand” while defending a petition with full vigour just to harass a girl student belonging to the EWS category. The Bench also held the petitioner-student entitled to Rs1 lakh costs as suitable compensation.‘Wholly erroneous approach’“The respondents have harassed the petitioner for the past two-and-a-half years while adopting a wholly erroneous approach; forced the petitioner to avoidable litigation leading to mental trauma; hampered her smooth studies, and as such, the same has not only caused her great prejudice, but also resulted into miscarriage of justice,” the High Court ruled.“The respondents have harassed the petitioner for the past two-and-a-half years while adopting a wholly erroneous approach; forced the petitioner to avoidable litigation leading to mental trauma; hampered her smooth studies, and as such, the same has not only caused her great prejudice, but also resulted into miscarriage of justice,” the High Court ruled.Justice Mahabir Singh Sindhu also made it clear that the costs would be paid by Panjab University and the University Institute of Legal Studies (UILS) in equal share of Rs50, 000 each,but they would be at liberty to recover it from the erring official/officer.Appearing in person, petitioner Ishita Uppal told the Bench that she had topped the Class XII examination in Chandigarh in 2014-15 before securing admission to the five-year BA LLB course offered by the UILS.Being meritorious and belonging to the economically weaker section, Uppal submitted that she was granted “freeship”/EWS scholarship by the respondents. However, it was discontinued in the fourth year and conveyed to her vide impugned letters/communications in June and July last year. The Bench was also told that she had been removed from the department rolls, ultimately leading to the cancellation of her internship programme in the ninth semester. This was after the petitioner could not appear in the sixth semester examination paper due to illness.In a short reply on behalf of the respondents, it was submitted that the benefit was allowed in view of her academic performance in the Class XII for the first semester. It was discontinued as she could not clear the sixth semester examination.“The action of the respondents while withdrawing the benefit of freeship/EWS scholarship and considering the case of the petitioner as compartment /re-appear candidate for the sixth semester, is not legally sustainable,” Justice Sindhu asserted.Setting aside the order, Justice Sindhu added that the respondents’ action of not treating the petitioner on the rolls and the consequent termination of her internship programme was based on legal malice. Rejection of her claim for freeship/EWS scholarship was also violative of the principles of natural justice and indefensible in law.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hc-raps-panjab-university-for-harassing-law-student-218018
27-02-2021||---||49th Rose Festival begins in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 26UT Adviser Manoj Kumar Parida today inaugurated the 49th Rose Festival on symbolic note here at Rose Garden. This year, the festival has been dedicated to the corona warriors.However, the Municipal Corporation (MC) has decided not to organise any kind of competitions during the three-day festival.Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma will give away appreciation awards and certificates to the RWAs, MWAs, NGOs and other individuals, who rendered services to society during the Covid-19 period, at Rose Garden on Sunday.The horticulture wing of the MC decorated the main gate with roses and other topiaries inside the garden.Meanwhile, the Department of Tourism, UT, is also organising a symbolic Rose Festival by conducting various activities such as art installation workshop, wooden sculpture installation, paint art studio, print media workshop, photograph exhibition, sound and light show with laser effects on the wall of the museum in Sector 10 from today till March 1.An official said events were being organised at the Government Museum and Art Gallery, Sector 10.In the photography competition, the first prize was won by Raja Vikrant Sharma, while second and third prizes were bagged by Sumit Kumar and Rohit Singh, respectively. Jatinder S Keith and Jashinder Singh Bahga got the consolation prize and would get cash award of Rs2,500 each. The first prize winner would get a cash award of Rs10,000, while second and third position holder would get Rs8,000 and Rs6,000, respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/49th-rose-festival-begins-in-chandigarh-218020
27-02-2021||---||Health Department locks govt school in Rajpura for 48 hours||Tribune News ServicePatiala, February 26After four staff members tested Covid positive, a government school was shut in Rajpura.The Health Department said four teachers tested Covid positive today during random sampling at Government School, Nalas, Rajpura. Following detection of the coronavirus cases, the Health Department passed orders to shut school for the next 48 hours.We have started contact tracing of the positive patients and ordered sanitisation ofthe school. — Dr Satinder Singh, Civil Surgeon, PatialaThe Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, said they had started contact tracing of the positive patients and ordered sanitisation of the school.Besides, a teacher at Government Senior Secondary School, Tripuri, also tested positive for the coronavirus. Notably, around 65 teachers and dozen students have tested Covid positive this month in Patiala alone.Meanwhile, 45 Covid positive cases were reported in Patiala today, thereby, taking the total count to 17, 003. Of the 45 cases, nine are contacts of positive patients. Besides, 36 people with flu-like symptoms also tested positive for the disease.Dr Satinder Singh said many school teachers had tested positive for the disease. Therefore, they had issued directions to all schools to follow Covid norms, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/health-department-locks-govt-school-in-rajpura-for-48-hours-218023
27-02-2021||---||Can’t relocate strays to Sukhdarshanpur dog pound, says Panchkula MC||Panchkula, February 26Captured stray dogs will be brought to the newly-inaugurated Sukhdarshanpur dog pound only for medical treatment, vaccination and sterilisation purpose and retuned back to their original locations thereafter.This was stated by Municipal Corporation (MC) Commissioner and ex-officio chairman of the monitoring and implementation committee on the management of stray dogs, RK Singh, today, while quoting Animal Birth Control (Dogs) Rules, 2001, enacted under the Indian Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act 1960 and rulings by the Supreme Court and other courts and guidelines of the state government.“After necessary period of follow up, dogs will be released at the same place or locality from where they were captured,’’ he said.The first meeting of the monitoring and implementation committee on the management of stray dogs was held today at the Sector 14 MC office.Catching, transportation, sheltering, sterilisation, vaccination, treatment and release of sterilised/vaccinated and treated dogs to their original habitat was discussed at length in the meeting.Other members of the committee include MC Joint Commissioner, Civil Surgeon, Executive Engineer of the Public Health Department, Deputy Director and Specialist Veterinary Officer of the Animal Husbandry Department.Meanwhile, local residents said the Sukhdarshanpur dog pound project was a waste of money.Rakesh Agarwal, member of a local NGO, said, “The dog pound project was undertaken in an absent-minded manner. Were civic body officials unaware that they can’t relocate dogs as per the law?”The dog pound, which was built at the cost of Rs4.07 crore, was inaugurated by Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta on February 5.It was touted as ‘historic’ with respect to dealing with the growing stray dog menace in the city. The facility was mainly built to accommodate more than 1,000 canines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cant-relocate-strays-to-sukhdarshanpur-dog-pound-says-panchkula-mc-218026
27-02-2021||---||Naujawan Kisan Diwas celebrated in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, February 26The Naujawan Kisan Diwas was celebrated at the Sector 17 Plaza here today. Attending to the call of ‘Young Farmers Day’ of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, youngsters participated in the protest.While Prof Manjit Singh highlighted the importance of youth in the farmers’ movement, Satnam Singh Tanda of Naujawan Kisan Ekta and Punjabi Manch expressed relief over the bail granted to Nodeep Kaur and Disha Ravi.We condemn the ‘illegal’ arrests of people during the farmers’ agitation as reports regarding 22-year-old Ranjeet Singh have suggested. — Satnam Singh Tanda, Farmer activist“We condemn illegal arrests of the people made during the farmers’ agitation as reports regarding 22-year-old Ranjeet Singh have suggested,” said Tanda.Children Harseerat Kaur, Abhijot Singh and Fateh Singh, all below the age of 10, were seen riding tricycles modified to look like tiny tractors as they raised slogans of “No farmer, no food”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/naujawan-kisan-diwas-celebrated-in-chandigarh-218039
27-02-2021||---||National wushu championship kicks off at Chandigarh varsity||Tribune News ServiceMohali, February 26The 29th Senior National Men and Women Wushu Championship kicked off to a flying start on the Chandigarh University (CU), Gharuan, campus today.More than 43 teams comprising 1,000 players from 28 states and eight Union Territories, and CRPF, BSF, ITBP and Services Sports Control Board are participating in the five-day national championship.It is becoming increasingly important for women and children to learn martial art of self-protection right from the school level keeping in view the modern day scenario of rising harassment cases in society. — Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, Minister for Sports, Youth and NRI Affairs, PunjabThe 29th edition of the National Men and Women Wushu Championship will witness – Sanshou and Taolu – two games.The men’s tournament has been divided into nine weight categories, including under 44 kg, -48 kg, -52 kg, -56 kg, -60 kg, -65 kg, -70 kg, -75 kg and over 75. Women’s tournament will see players participating in under 40 kg, -45 kg, -48 kg, -52 kg, -56 kg, -60 kg, -65 kg and over 65 kg weight categories.Qualifying matches of men and women in all the categories of Sanda event of Senior National Wushu Championship were played on the first day of the event.The Punjab Minister for Sports, Youth and NRI Affairs, Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, said out of the total budget of Rs500 crore for the Punjab Sports University in Patiala an initial amount of Rs25 crore was released in 2020 for setting up the academic, administration and hostel block of the university.“The Punjab Government is in the process to sign MoU with UK’s Loughborough University for offering short term courses and degree programmes in sports and physical education,” the minister added.“Wushu originated in China and has become popular in India in a short span of time. Our players have made a mark in wushu competition at the international level. Wushu not only a sport, but also as a self-defense tool,” the minister said.“It is becoming increasingly important that women and children should learn martial art for self-protection right from the school level keeping in view the modern day scenario of rising child and women harassment cases in society,” the minister said.Arjuna Awardee, Dronacharya Awardee, international and national players of wushu, including Puja Kadian, Sandhya Rani, Bimoljit Singh and Kuldeep Handu were honoured by the Chandigarh University during the opening ceremony of the championship.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/national-wushu-championship-kicks-off-at-chandigarh-varsity-218049
27-02-2021||Mohali||Punjab should reduce tax on fuel by 50%, says Chandumajra||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) would put pressure on the Central Government for reducing fuel prices if the Punjab Government reduced tax on oil prices by 50 per cent.SAD senior vice-president Prof Prem Singh Chandumajra stated this while presiding over meeting of the office-bearers of the urban and rural units of the party at Gurdwara Amb Sahib in Mohali today.Addressing party workers Chandumajra said, “Due to rising prices of oil and LPG, prices of essential items are also going up. The Centre and the state government are imposing additional excise and VAT on the people. It has become difficult for the common man to make both ends meet.”“Gherao of the state Assembly to be held on March 1 over the rising fuel prices will be a historic one,” he added. Chandumajra also ridiculed the state government for imposition of the Central Pay Commission on its employees and retrenchment of departments in the name of ‘restructuring’ in spite of Punjab having its own pay commission. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-should-reduce-tax-on-fuel-by-50-says-chandumajra-218050
27-02-2021||---||Now, comprehensive heart valve clinic at hospital in Panchkula||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, February 26The chairman, cardiac sciences, Paras Superspeciality Hospital, Dr HK Bali, has said, “A comprehensive heart valve clinic is now functional at Paras Hospital in Panchkula.”“The open heart surgery for valve replacement is not suitable for many elderly patients, who are in the age group of 80 years and above and who have other comorbid conditions like low ejection fraction,” Dr Bali added. “Now, there is an option of the latest non-surgical technique of aortic valve replacement – TAVI (Trans catheter aortic valve implantation) or TAVR (Trans catheter aortic valve replacement). It is a totally non-surgical treatment where there is no need to open the chest of the patient surgically. The procedure can be performed in one-and-a-half to two hours and the patient can be discharged in two to three days,” said Dr Bali.The associate director, cardiology, Dr Anurag Sharma, said, “Till few years ago, TAVI was recommended only in high risk and inoperable patients. In 2016, it has been approved in intermediate risk patients as well.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-comprehensive-heart-valve-clinic-at-hospital-in-panchkula-218051
27-02-2021||Patiala||Beautification of Chhoti, Bari Nadi begins in Patiala||The drainage, water supply and the PDA departments along with the Municipal Corporation today started the project for the beautification of the ‘Chhoti’ and ‘Bari Nadi’ in the city. The departments will lay 17 km sewer line along with construction of the 26 MLD sewage treatment plant (STP) as part of the project.Mayor Sanjeev Kumar Sharma said, “An amount of Rs208 crore will be spent on the whole project of which work of Rs164 crore has been started. The departments will construct two sewage treatment plants as part of the project. A 26 MLD capacity plant will come up near Sunny Enclave while another 15 MLD capacity plant will be constructed at Daulatpur village. Besides, walls of both ‘nadis’ will be strengthened.”“The PDA and drainage and water supply departments aim to complete the project by the end of 2022. All sewer water currently discharged into the two water bodies will be channelised to the STPs and drained into the ‘nadis’ after cleaning,” said officials. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/beautification-of-chhoti-bari-nadi-begins-in-patiala-218053
27-02-2021||Naina Mishra||Book your centre, time & date for Covid vaccination||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 26The next phase of vaccination is due for citizens above 60 years of age and those aged from 45 years to 60 years with co-morbidities.Who are eligibleVaccination open for HCWs, FLWsDr Amandeep Kaur Kang, DHS, said there would be provision for on-site registration of eligible beneficiaries. Besides, those healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs) who are registered on CoWIN but not yet vaccinated may visit a centre for vaccination. The HCWs/FLWs can visit identified centres for on-spot registration.To augment and simplify the process of registration for vaccination, the Ministry of Health and Family and Welfare is coming with CoWIN 2.0 wherein citizens will be able to self-register and fix their date and time of appointment.Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director Health Services (DHS), Chandigarh, said: “For the next two days, there will be no vaccination session as the portal will remain shut. We will identify vaccination centres and plan sessions accordingly. We have a capacity to vaccinate around 3,000 beneficiaries to date. This capacity will be enhanced when more centres are set up.”Fake co-morbid certification offence, says DHSThe government has identified a few co-morbid conditions with respect to vaccination. These include cardiac complications, diabetes, kidney disease, HIV, cancer, etc.“The residents will be able to register through the portal themselves and those between 45 and 60 years of age will have to produce a declaration of co-morbid condition from a certified medical practitioner. The ministry has informed that those involved in producing fake certificates will be liable to action, including termination of licence,” she added.Vaccination will be provided free of charge at the government health facilities and will be on a payment basis at private health facilities, at a rate as may be decided by the Centre from time to time.Dr Kang shared that the private facilities can charge Rs 100 as inoculation fee. However, the amount generated from vaccination at the rate given by the ministry will have to be deposited in the government account.The registration and an appointment will be available to citizens through the CoWIN portal or through other IT applications such as Arogya Setu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/book-your-centre-time-date-for-covid-vaccination-218057
27-02-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh implements guidelines on Covid-19 containment||The guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) for surveillance, containment and caution against Covid-19 will be in force in the UT up to March 31.An order issued by Manoj Parida, UT Adviser-cum-Chairman of State Disaster Management Authority, states that the authorities would take all necessary measures to promote Covid-appropriate behaviour and ensure the wearing of masks, hand hygiene, and social distancing and all guidelines issued by the MHA would be strictly complied with by all concerned.The order states that the number of active cases of Covid-19 has been declining over the past four months. With a view to consolidating the substantial gains that have been achieved against the spread of Covid, and to fully overcome the pandemic, there is a need to maintain caution and strictly follow the prescribed containment strategy, focus on surveillance, containment and strict observance of the guidelines.As per the guidelines, all activities will be permitted outside the containment zones. However, social, religious, sports, entertainment, educational, cultural and religious gathering are allowed subject to SOPs issued by the UT.Containment zones, if required, shall be demarcated by the district authorities at the micro level taking into consideration the guidelines prescribed by the ministry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-implements-guidelines-on-covid-19-containment-218058
27-02-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||60 pc HCWs, FLWs yet to get jab||Tribune News ServiceMohali, February 26More than 60 per cent health and frontline workers are yet to get the vaccine jab as only 9,033 workers, of a total 22,889 targeted workers, have got the vaccine in the district to date.There are 13,979 healthcare workers (HCWs) and 8,910 frontline workers (FLWs) in the district. About 5,562 HCWs and 3,471 FLWs have received the first jab since it was introduced across the country on January 16 this year and 2,079 HCWs have received the second doze under the drive which began on February 16.However after the spurt in positive cases, the Health Department has started receiving good response as 186 HCWs, including 28 first timers, came forward today to get the vaccine. Similarly, 277 FLWs were given the first doze also.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Adarshpal Kaur, said the vaccination drive was in full swing at seven health facilities in the district and so far, no health worker has been affected by vaccination. She said vaccination was being carried out by trained staff under the direct supervision of specialist doctors.Meanwhile, the next phase of vaccination is due for citizens of age categories, including people above 60 years of age and those aged from 45 years to 60 years with co-morbidities subject to certification to that effect by a registered medical practitioner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/60-pc-hcws-flws-yet-to-get-jab-218059
27-02-2021||Amit Bathla||Amid surge, Panchkula steps up preventive measures||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, February 26Amid Covid-19 cases witnessing a surge in Mohali, Chandigarh and other parts of the country, the Panchkula Health Department has stepped up preventive measures to ensure the situation remains under control in the district.Help from RWAs for surveillanceThe Health Department has requested RWAs to intimate the authorities if any symptomatic person arrives in their locality from Maharashtra and other affected areas so that they can be tested.Present situationWith a maximum of 21 cases, the district reported 90 cases (about 13 per day) in the past one week. Only one person died between February 20 and 26. While the tally stands at 10,806, the toll remains 149.The office of the Civil Surgeon, Panchkula, has issued a nine-point action plan in this regard. A copy of the order has been marked to medical officials in the district, including in-charges of all primary health centres (PHCs), community health centres (CHCs) and dispensaries, for strict adherence.The fresh steps include expansion of daily testing, surveillance of those travelling from Maharashtra and other affected areas, active survey of influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) by ASHA workers in their respective areas and preparation of a separate ward for any Covid-19 mutant strain at the Civil Hospital in Sector 6.Testing for students of Classes III to VThe Health Department has also sought the details of students of Classes 3 to 5 from the District Elementary Education Officer for testing. Schools for Classes 3 to 5 reopened recently. As per a latest directive of the Haryana Education Department, schools for Classes 1 and 2 will reopen from March 1.Plan to increase samplingDaily testing has gradually come down. Of late, not many people are turning up to get themselves tested for Covid-19. On an average, only 627 tests were conducted every day in the past one week – between February 20 and 26. Hence, the department aims at increasing the number of tests per day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/amid-surge-panchkula-steps-up-preventive-measures-218060
27-02-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 69 cases||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-69-cases-218061
27-02-2021||Mohali||56 cases, no death in Mohali||Among the new cases, 45 were reported from Mohali (Urban), one from Dera Bassi, two from Boothgarh and four cases each from Dhakoli and Lalru. The district has so far seen 20,194 cases, while 19,277 patients have been cured. There are 533 active cases. With no new death, the toll in the district stands at 384. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/56-cases-no-death-in-mohali-218063
27-02-2021||Panchkula||21 more infected in Panchkula||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/21-more-infected-in-panchkula-218064
27-02-2021||---||Jaspal Bhatti's Nonsense Club stage “petrol marriage”||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 26The Nonsense Club, formed by Punjab’s ‘King of Satire’ Jaspal Bhatti in the late 70s, today staged a “petrol marriage” to fire shots at the petrol price hike under the BJP-led government.In the heart of City Beautiful, reminiscent of Bhatti’s tongue-in-cheek humour to address social issues back in 90s and early 2000, time stood still at the Sector 17 Plaza. Bhatti’s wife actor Savita Bhatti, Vinod Sharma, Pummy Sidhu, Gurtej, Lally Gill and Arvinder came dressed as “baraatis” with pictures of LPG cylinders and jerrycans (with labels of petrol) in their hands. They exchanged LPG cylinders and petrol to perform the “millni” ritual. They exchanged garlands made of mobil oil pouches with each other. Savita Bhatti said: “Now that the prices of petrol, diesel and LPG have shot up to this an extent, it’s only fair that petrol be exchanged at millnis.” She added, “Instead of blankets and shawls, the families exchanged petrol. Bhuas and mother of the boy have been given mobil oil packages, instead of cheap garlands. We will give away petrol vouchers to our guests.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jaspal-bhattis-nonsense-club-stage-petrol-marriage-218065
27-02-2021||---||Rs 42L for strengthening sewerage at Burail||Chandigarh, February 26The Finance and Contract Committee (F&CC) of the Municipal Corporation (MC) today approved an estimated cost of Rs 42 lakh for the strengthening of sewerage near Library in Burail village.A meeting of the committee was held under the chairmanship of Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma here today.The committee also approved agenda regarding lifting of dead animals in the MC limits. It also accorded approval for the procurement of new vehicles on GeM portal.Approval was also given to the construction of a buffer zone with chain-linked fencing at Milk Colony, Dhanas, at an estimated cost of Rs 40.11 lakh.Special repair of the cremation ground at Dhanas at an estimated cost of Rs 22.02 lakh was given approval and rough cost estimates for the construction of road gullies and machine holes of storm water drainage system at an estimated cost of Rs 26.30 lakh was also approved.The committee approved agenda regarding animal Birth Control Programme in stray dogs at Raipur Kalan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs-42l-for-strengthening-sewerage-at-burail-218066
27-02-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Bar firing case committed to sessions court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 26The Court of TPS Randhawa, Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, has committed the Esko Bar firing case to the Sessions Court for trial. Saurav Gujjar, a TikTok star and choreographer with a dance academy, and resident of Zirakpur, was injured in the firing when a bullet hit him in the thigh outside the Esko Bar, Sector 9, Chandigarh, around 11.45 pm in October, 2020.Esko Bar incidentSaurav Gujjar, a TikTok star and choreographer with a dance academy, and resident of Zirakpur, was injured in the firing when a bullet hit him in the thigh outside the Esko Bar, Sector 9, Chandigarh, around 11.45 pm in October, 2020.The police have registered an FIR against the accused on a complaint of the injured. As per the statement given by Saurav Gujjar, Movish Bains allegedly slapped him on the dance floor at Esko Bar.Saurabh alleged that he had a confrontation with Movish at the bar over the dropping of currency notes while he was dancing.Saurav alleged that when he and his friends came out of the bar, the accused fired at him the bullet hit him in thigh. The accused fled the spot along with his accomplices. An injured Saurav was taken to the PGI. He alleged in the FIR that Movish, along with his accomplices, fired at them with the intention to kill them. On the basis of his statement, the police registered an FIR against the accused under Section 307 and 34 of the IPC and 25/27/54/59 of the Arms Act. The police started investigation and all three accused, Sukhdeep Singh, Movish Bains and Neutron, were arrested. One accused has absconded. The police recently filed the challan before the court. In the order pronounced today, the court said since the accused were facing charges punishable under Section 307 of the IPC, the case is committed to the Court of Sessions for March 10, 2021.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bar-firing-case-committed-to-sessions-court-218067
27-02-2021||Chandigarh||Congress to protest near houses of BJP councillors||The Chandigarh Territorial Congress Committee (CTCC) would hold protests outside the houses of BJP councillors against hike in water tariff.President of CTCC Subhash Chawla said workers would peacefully march towards the residences of the BJP councillors from February 28. The councillors would be asked to resign if they fail to get water tariffs roll backed, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-to-protest-near-houses-of-bjp-councillors-218068
27-02-2021||---||2 land in police net for shopkeeper’s murder||Tribune News ServiceMohali, February 26The police today arrested two suspects - Pankaj Sharma of Bela village and Daljit Kaur of Mahimdwal in Kapurthala - in connection with the murder of Sunil Kumar, a resident of Sector 70.When Sunil did not return home for two days, his family members lodged a missing person report at the Mataur police station. The police found Sunil’s body floating in the Bhakra canal near Bassi Pathana on February 13.According to the police, the body was found with hands tied with a rope and a handkerchief tied around his neck.The police said Sunil used to run a confectionery shop where Pankaj and Daljit were engaged in marketing and supply of goods. Sunil knew about the affair between Pankaj and Daljit. Sunil also had some monetary dispute with Pankaj.When Pankaj demanded money from Sunil, the latter started blackmailing him over his affair with Daljit. On February 10, Pankaj called Sunil to Bassi Pathana at the woman’s house. The duo consumed liquor and the victim fell unconscious, following which the suspects strangled him. They later bundled him in a car and dumped the body in the canal.The police said the suspects had confessed to have committed the crime. The car used in the crime had also been seized.Mataur SHO Ashok Kumar said the suspects were today produced before a Mohali court, which sent them to three-day police custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-land-in-police-net-for-shopkeepers-murder-218069
27-02-2021||Dera Bassi||One nabbed for snatching car||The police have arrested a person in connection with a car snatching case on the Chandigarh-Ambala Highway. The suspect has been identified as Jugal Singh, alias Jagga, a resident of Tarn Taran.Jugal was working as a labourer at Dera Bassi. One more suspect is still absconding with the vehicle. He has been identified as Rajdeep Singh of Jhujar Nagar, Moga.The incident took place on January 7 when a man went to pay the school fee of his children. His wife was sitting in the car with keys on. Two youths forced their way into the car. They took the woman hostage and fled towards Ambala. On the way, they threatened the woman to remain quiet. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-nabbed-for-snatching-car-218071
27-02-2021||Chandigarh||Admn declares holiday today||Three-day Judo meet beginsChandigarh: The three-day Chandigarh State Judo Championship commenced at the Sector 34 Sports Complex here today. Around 200 judokas, including boys and girls, are taking part in all weight categories in sub-junior, cadet, junior and senior categories. On the first day the matches of boys and girls senior category were held. The championship is being organised by Amateur Judo Association of Chandigarh, which is affiliated to the Judo Federation of India. TNSITF world tennis meet at CLTAChandigarh: The Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association (CLTA) will organise the ITF World Tennis Tour Juniors (Grade-4) for boys and girls under-18 years at its Sector 10 tennis stadium from March 1 to 6. The qualifying matches for the event will be played on February 27 and 28 Players from Belgium, France, Great Britain, Nepal, Russia, Spain, United State of America and India will compete in the event. All matches will be played on the CLTA’s synthetic courts from 9 am onwards. The main draw for each of the two events for boys and girls consists of 32 players of which 24 secure their entry as per their ITF ranking, four from the qualifiers in the qualifying matches and four would be given wild cards. TNSMansukh wins golf meetChandigarh: The school organised a cleanliness drive in which students participated with enthusiasm. As many as 200 students and 10 staff members took out a rally. Students holding placards reading ‘Don’t litter, don’t be so bitter’, ‘Go clean, go green’. They also cleaned the Sector-15 market area. TNSmobile App development sessionChandigarh: The six-week mobile app development and digital marketing course, which started on January 16, at GGDSD College, Kheri Gurna, in collaboration with iTinker was successfully completed on Friday. Ashish Jain of iTinker said the objective of the programme was to enhance entrepreneurial and employability skills of college students. The first batch of 18 students was divided into three groups of six students each. Each group developed an app, which would be available on the Playstore. Maj Gen (retd) AK Shori, chairman, appreciated initiative taken by the college, which he said was a step forward towards the vision shared by the college management to make the institution unique and different. TNSSkill development programmeChandigarh: The NSS unit of the Post Graduate Government College for Girls, Sector 42, organised two- day skill development training programme on organic farming and gardening skills. The training session on organic farming, composting and microgreenwas was taken up by Rahul Mahajan, an environmentalist and founder of the NGO Organic Sharing. He made students aware about organic farming through demonstration. He encouraged students to enhance their love for nature and gardening skills. He also distributed 200 plants among faculty and non faculty members and students, present during the session. TNSRBU’s pact with ICMR Centre, PGIMohali: The Rayat Bahra University and the ICMR Centre for Innovation and Bio-design (CIBioD) of the PGI have signed a memorandum of understanding with a view to amalgamating their efforts by pooling their expertise and to form a nucleus for promoting research and development. According to a press release, the MoU also aims to promote training. TNSAlcoholic Anonymous meetingPatiala: The Alcoholic Anonymous (AA), a worldwide fellowship helping suffering alcoholics to achieve sobriety, has come to Patiala. It will organise meetings at Veer Haqiqat Rai Senior Secondary School in the city every Wednesday and Saturday. A representative of the AA said the first physical meeting during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic would be held on the school premises at 5.30 pm. TNSMan hangsself to deathChandigarh: A 28-year-old man reportedly committed suicide by hanging himself at his house in Sector 45 here. The victim, Aman, was alone at the house when he took the extreme step. Neighbours saw him hanging and informed the police. The police took the victim to the hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. The police have initiated an inquest proceeding into the matter. TNSYouth held for raping minorZirakpur: The police have arrested a youth for allegedly abducting and raping a minor girl. The suspect has been identified as Jatinder Singh, a resident of Peermuchalla and native of Bihar. He was produced in a Dera Bassi court, which remanded him in police custody for one day. The victim’s father had lodged a complaint with the police saying that he had gone to work on February 24 when he received a call from home at 7 am that his 12-year-old daughter had gone with someone in a three-wheeler. On February 25, his daughter returned home and said the suspect had taken her with him and raped her. TNSOver 1K bottles of liquor seizedPanchkula: The police recovered more than 1,000 bottles of illicit liquor from a car that met with an accident with a stray animal near a banquet hall on NH 7 on Thursday. According to the FIR, the police recovered 1,029 bottles of liquor from the car being transported without permit. The car occupants, Surendra Chinda of Jallowal and Rakesh of Khadaqa have been booked under Section 61 of the Punjab Excise Act. TNSTwo of Bishnoi gang heldMohali: The police have arrested two members of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang with three pistols and 11 rounds of ammunition. They have been identified as Tarun Kumar of Jalandhar and Deepak Kumar, alias Tinu, of Bhiwani. The police said Tarun came to give arms to Bishnoi gang members near the Mohali crematorium on February 19 at the behest of gangster Deepak, who is lodged in the Amritsar jail and was brought to Mohali on a production warrant for interrogation. The police also recovered a pistol and five rounds of ammunition which Deepak had hidden at a secret place. TNSTwo arrested on theft chargeChandigarh: The UT police have arrested two persons in a case of theft. According to the police, the suspects, identified as Ravinder Singh, a resident of Ram Darbar, and Ranish Thapa, a resident of Hallo Majra, were arrested while carrying 105-kg screw/bolts stolen from the Industrial Area, Phase II. They were nabbed from near the Kali Bari light point. TNSCopper wires of AC units stolenChandigarh: Copper wires of outdoor AC units were stolen from 17 shops in Sector 44, here, on Thursday. The AC units were installed in the roof of all shops. On the complaint of a shopkeeper, Diljit Thukral, the police have registered a case at the Sector 34 police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/admn-declares-holiday-today-218074
27-02-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh PGI witnesses 100 per cent Covid spike in 10 days||With the mask down and mobility up, the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGI) here has witnessed 100 per cent increase in Covid-19 patient load over past 10 days, doctors said on Friday.There has been a surge of admitted patients from 30 to 57 over last week, making it 100 per cent increase in Covid-19 positive cases, GD Puri, head of the Department of Anaesthesia and Intensive Care, said.He said the pandemic is far from over.Also read: Disregard for Covid norms behind spike: Nodal officer"With mobility up, we are definitely contributing to accelerate the rise in cases." Expressing concern over the consistent rise in the severe and moderate cases over the last few days, he said the numbers have been stable for over a month. However, the trend has reversed recently with numbers again rising on a daily basis and there has been a surge of admitted patients.Stressing the urgent need to guard up, Puri said, "One may say that these are only two digit numbers as of now but what is really worrying is the steady and fast increase."We just cannot afford to take it lightly, more so, because the newly detected mutant strain is far more transmissible." Urging healthcare workers and other eligible people to get vaccinated at the earliest, Puri said, "The peerless and fearless frontline warriors have confronted the challenge of Covid-19 so bravely, so why this hesitancy for vaccination when it is vital for their safety considering their vulnerability due to the exposure at the job."Rather, they should be the role-models for society instead of falling prey to misconceptions and rumour mills regarding the efficacy, safety and side effects of the vaccine. In fact, who knows more than the healthcare workers how deadly Covid-19 can be."  IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-pgi-witnesses-100-per-cent-covid-spike-in-10-days-217750
27-02-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||In week, 39% rise in Mohali cases||Tribune News ServiceMohali, February 25Mohali district has witnessed a 39.16 per cent increase in the Covid cases with the active cases crossing the 500-mark in the past one week.The district witnessed a sudden surge in Covid cases as 64 cases were reported on Wednesday against 39 cases on Tuesday, showing an increase of 50 per cent. Today, 50 cases surfaced in the district.Since February 1, only 15 to 20 cases were being reported, but there has been a constant increase in the Covid cases recently. This has become a cause of worry for the health authorities. On February 1, there were 551 active cases in the district. On February 17, the active cases had gone down to 360. However, within a week, the active cases have gone up to 501 — an increase of 39.16 per cent.About 365 deaths were reported till February 1. The toll now stands at 384. In the months of January, 23 deaths were reported in the district.Though the Punjab Government had directed the district commissioners in the state to take stringent measures, including the imposition of a night curfew, this may trouble people and businesses.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the number of cases had started increasing as people were now taking the pandemic lightly and were not wearing a mask or following social distancing guidelines. He said people should understand their responsibility and take precautions at all costs. He said the police and the heads of various departments had been directed to motivate people to wear a mask.Dayalan said at present, there was no proposal for a night curfew or lockdown in Mohali. Action would be taken against those violating the guidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-week-39-rise-in-mohali-cases-217503
27-02-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 49 fresh cases||1 death in MohaliMohali: One more person succumbed to Covid during the past 24 hours in Mohali, taking the toll to 384. Meanwhile, 50 fresh cases surfaced in the district till Thursday evening, while 19 patients recovered from the virus. So far, 20,138 cases have been reported in the district of which 501 are active. —TNS 15 cases in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Thursday reported 15 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the overall tally to 10,785. The Covid toll remained at 149. While 10,509 patients have recovered from the disease so far, 127 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 97.44 per cent. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-49-fresh-cases-217497
