28-02-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||How and where to register for next phase of COVID-19 vaccination drive in Chandigarh||As the Government of India has allowed the vaccination of age appropriate groups from March 1, the Chandigarh Administration has identified private hospital sites and government hospitals and COVID Vaccination Centres where the drive will kick off.The nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive was launched on January 16. The vaccination programme is now exponentially expanded to all citizens above 60 years of age and those within the age bracket of 45 to 59 years with specified co-morbidities.To ramp up the COVID vaccination capacity manifolds, significantly large number of private Hospitals empanelled under Ayushman Bharat (PMJAY) and CGHS will function as COVID Vaccination Centres (CVCs).UT Chandigarh Health Department has already inspected the private hospital sites and interacted with their nodal officers.The government has upgraded its digital platform so that the beneficiaries can now self-register themselves (Co-WIN 2) on the site.The Chandigarh health department would be conducting this vaccination drive at government health care facilities and five private hospitals on day one which will be up-scaled in the next couple of days.The government sites are1. GMCH 32 CHD B Block 5th Floor Site 12. GMCH 32 CHD B Block 5th Floor Site 23. GMSH 16 CHD OPD Block 5th Floor Site 14. GMSH 16 CHD OPD Block 3rd Floor Site 25. Police Hospital Sector 26 CHD6. Police Hospital Sector 26 CHD Site 27. Civil Hospital Sector 45 , CHD8. Civil Hospital Manimajra CHD9. HWC (Dispensary) Sector 49 CHD 10.PGIMER Lecture Theatre Complex CHD 11.Advance Pediatric Centre PGI CHD12.Community Center Sector 23 CHD13.ESI Hospital Ramdarbar CHD.Sites were online registration available are1. GMSH 16 CHD OPD Block2.  GMCH 32 CHD B Block3.  Civil Hospital Sector 45 CHD4.  Civil Hospital Manimajra CHD5.  HWC, Sector 49On site registration would be available on at all the sites including private hospitals.The private hospitals to be made operational on day one are1. Santokh Hospital    Hno. 846, Sector 38 A 1600362. Chaitanya Hospital  Chaitanya Hospoital Hospital Site No. 1 and 2, Sector 44 c 1600473. Healing Hospital and Institute of Paramedical Sciences     Sco 18-19 Sector 34 a 1600224. Landmark Hospital  Hno. 846, Sector 38 A   1600365. Dharam Hospital     Hno. 2040 Sector 15-C  160015.The Government COVID Vaccination Centres (CVC) will provide free vaccinations to the age appropriate groups however private hospitals will charge Rs 250 per person per dose.The DHS has issued instructions to all hospital vaccination sites to promote on spot registration especially on day one as on line registration might take some time on Co-win 2 launch.For on spot registration any of the following documents would be neededNecessary documents to be carried for vaccinationAll beneficiaries, regardless of the mode of access, must be advised to carry the following — Aadhar Card and Electoral Photo Identity Card (EPIC); and the photo ID card specified at the time of registration in case of online registration. (If not Aadhar or EPIC)Certificate of comorbidity for citizens in age group of 45 years to 59 years.Employment certificate/ Official Identity Card – (either but with photo) for HCWs and FLWs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/how-and-where-to-register-for-next-phase-of-covid-19-vaccination-drive-in-chandigarh-218699
28-02-2021||---||Posing as Guv's secy, man dupes liquor store owners in Chandigarh, held||Chandigarh, February 28A 50-year-old imposter, who used to pose as the private secretary (PS) of the Punjab Governor and dupe liquor store owners, has been arrested by the UT police.UT SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal said a team, led by Inspector Ram Rattan, SHO of the Sector 17 police station, nabbed the accused, Gurnam Singh, a resident of Mundi Kharar village, who was a property dealer.The SSP said the suspect used to pose as the private secretary of the Governor and extort costly whisky from liquor stores.Complainant Kashmir Singh of Sector 23 had complained that the suspect went to a liquor store in Sector 16 on February 27 and extorted a box of 100 Pipers and Jack Daniels. Acting on the complaint, the police nabbed the suspect from Sector 22.The police said the suspect had also extorted costly whisky from another liquor contractor.“Earlier this month, he had extorted three boxes of wine from a contractor, Tushar, of Sector 31,” said a police official.During the investigation, the police found that the suspect visited a showroom in Sector 17 on February 20 and took costly items, including a purse and belts, after posing as the Governor's secretary.A case has been registered against him at the Sector 17 police station. The police have recovered two liquor boxes and a car used by him.He was produced in a court today and remanded in one-day police custody.The police said the car recovered from him was of an employee of a service centre in the Industrial Area. “The suspect had left his car for service and borrowed the car of the manager of that service centre to commit the crime so that he didn't get caught,” said a police official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/posing-as-guvs-secy-man-dupes-liquor-store-owners-in-chandigarh-held-218698
28-02-2021||Chandigarh||CH01BK: Date for installing HSRP extended till Sept 30||The Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA), UT, has extended the date for receipt of application for High Security Registration Plate (HSRP) and colour-coded sticker for the CH01BK series up to September 30.An official spokesperson said with regard to fixation of HSRP and colour-coded sticker within the stipulated time, a large number of people were approaching the authorised vendor situated on the premises of the RLA and it had been observed that there was unnecessary panic among the public in this respect.Therefore, in public interest and keeping in view the present situation of pandemic in the tricity, the department has decided to extend the date of receipt of application for the specific series, CH01BK, up to September 30. The official said the registered owners of other series might apply after the end of September for issuance of HSRP and colour-coded sticker. The registered owners of vehicles of the CH01BK series can apply for HSRP and third registration mark (colour-coded sticker) on their vehicles in the RLA office, Sector 17, SDM (South), Sports Complex Sector-42, and SDM (East), near the CTU workshop in Industrial Area, Phase I, and to the vendors of dealers concerned (of their vehicle’s make). In case of any query regarding HSRP, an applicant/owner of vehicle can contact on 0172-2700341.Visitors inconveniencedMeanwhile, people who had booked online appointments for various works for Saturday had to face inconvenience as the Registering And Licence Authority remained closed due to sudden declaration of holiday in the city today. An official said the authorities had rescheduled the appointments booked for Saturday for all days next week.Dheeraj Punj, a local resident, said his 79-year-old father had booked an appointment for today regarding cancellation of hypothecation of RC. Saturday is reserved to facilitate senior citizen’s/physically challenged/defence personnel. “We reached on time but to our utter shock, the office was closed on account of Ravi Das Jayanti without any prior communication,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ch01bk-date-for-installing-hsrp-extended-till-sept-30-218352
28-02-2021||Chandigarh||CoWIN 2.0: On-spot registration on Day 1||There will be only on-the-spot registration on March 1 as the CoWIN portal is unlikely to be made operational beforehand to facilitate citizens above 60 years of age and those aged 45 years to 60 years with the co-morbidities, for self-registration for vaccination.Necessary documentsAll beneficiaries, regardless of the mode of access, i.e. through online registration or mobilisation through on-site registration, must be advised to carry the following for verification at the time of vaccination – Aadhaar card; electoral photo identity card (EPIC) and certificate of comorbidity for citizens in the age group of 45 years to 59 years.To augment and simplify the process of registration for vaccination, the Ministry of Health and Family and Welfare is coming up with CoWIN 2.0 wherein citizens will be able to self-register and fix their date and time of appointment.Vaccination chargesVaccination will be provided free of charge at the government health facilities and will be on a payment basis at private health facilities. All private hospitals can charge Rs150 for vaccine and Rs100 for service charges fixed by the Central Government.All beneficiaries, regardless of the mode of access, i.e. through online registration or mobilisation through on-site registration, must be advised to carry the following for verification at the time of vaccination – Aadhaar card; electoral photo identity card (EPIC), and certificate of comorbidity for citizens in the age group of 45 years to 59 years. An official may be present at the vaccination centre for verification of employment credentials and Covid duties for those who do walk in for on-site registration.How to register on portal?Vaccination will be provided free of charge at the government health facilities and will be on a payment basis at private health facilities. All private hospitals can charge Rs150 for vaccine and Rs100 for service charges fixed by the Central Government.Arun Gupta, Principal Health Secretary of UT, said: “There is a provision for on-the-spot registration at the vaccination centres. In case the portal isn’t made operationalised by March 1, then we will inoculate beneficiaries through on-the-spot registration. We are checking with 15 private hospitals of Chandigarh that have been empanelled under the Central Government scheme for the vaccination programme.”In the case of self-registration, the CoWIN portal will provide the facility for booking an appointment based on the vaccination centers declared by the states/UTs, with their location, the dates on which appointment slots are provided and the capacity declared as open slots and the vacancies available at the time of booking. However, such details pertaining to slots and availability of centres are yet to be worked out by the Chandigarh Administration as of now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cowin-2-0-on-spot-registration-on-day-1-218357
28-02-2021||Panchkula||Vaccination likely at 8 private centres in Panchkula||The Panchkula Health Department will start the next phase of Covid-19 vaccination on Monday, with inoculation of those above the age of 60, or above the age of 45 with co-morbidities that make them more vulnerable to the disease.For now, it has been decided to conduct vaccination at all primary health centres and community health centres (PHCs/CHCs), polyclinic at Sector 26, Urban Health Centre, and in Sector 16.Apart from this, eight private facilities empanelled under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PM-JAY) and the Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) have been identified for the immunisation campaign. These facilities are Radha Devi Amravati Polyclinic, Ojas Super Speciality Hospital, Alchemist Hospital, Dhawan Hospital, Malik Medical and Diagnostic Centre, Navdeep Hospital, Raffles Hospital and Paras Hospital.However, all aspects of the vaccination drive will be finalised tomorrow.The CMO, Dr Jasjeet Kaur, said the target groups would be actively mobilised and brought to the selected vaccination centres.“The vaccination training for health care workers who were not part of the first two phases will start on Monday,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vaccination-likely-at-8-private-centres-in-panchkula-218358
28-02-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 60 cases||54 more contract virus in MohaliMohali: As many as 54 more persons tested positive for Covid-19 during the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 20,248. Meanwhile, 31 more patients were discharged from the hospitals after being cured of the virus. However, no death was reported due to Covid in the district till Saturday evening. Among the fresh cases, 37 were from Mohali (urban), two from Dera Bassi, five from Dhakoli and 10 from Kharar. The district has so far seen 20,248 cases while 19,308 patients have been cured. There are 556 active cases. With no death, the toll in the district stands at 384. — TNS20 more infected in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Saturday reported 20 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the tally to 10,826. The Covid toll remained at 149. While 10,539 patients have recovered from the disease, 138 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 97.34 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-60-cases-218363
28-02-2021||Panchkula||Baltana youth hit by ‘drunk’ driver, dies||A youth of Baltana, who was on the way to a hotel in Sector 5 here to celebrate his friend’s birthday, lost his life after he had a flat tyre and his car was hit by another vehicle, being driven by a suspected drunk man, on the Maheshpur flyover.The victim, identified as Gurpreet Singh, was driving his Alto car to the Bella Vista hotel on the night of February 25 to celebrate his friend, Ritesh Kumar’s birthday.Around 12:15 am, a tyre of the victim’s car got punctured on the Maheshpur flyover on the Zirakpur-Kalka highway. The victim’s four friends, who were in another car, stopped their car after spotting Gurpreet’s vehicle alongside the road.As they were walking towards the victim’s vehicle, a car, being rashly driven by a suspected drunk man, rammed into Gurpreet’s car.The victim’s friends caught the suspect after a brief chase and handed him over to the police.The suspect, identified as Sumit Kumar, resides in Sector 4, Panchkula. He is a native of Gohana, Sonepat.Gurpreet was taken to the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 where the doctors declared him dead on arrival.A case has been registered under Sections 279 and 304-A of the Indian Penal Code and Section 185 of the Motor Vehicle Act at the Sector 5 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/baltana-youth-hit-by-drunk-driver-dies-218364
28-02-2021||Mohali||Storekeeper attacked with blade, succumbs||A 36-year-old storekeeper bled to death in Sector 82 after a labourer attacked him with a sharp blade around 2 am today. The victim, Rajesh Pandey, was rushed to the GMCH-32 by fellow workers where he succumbed injuries an hour later.The police said Rajesh was a storekeeper at an underground-cable manufacturing company. He had an altercation with a worker while having food at night. The matter worsened and he attacked Rajesh in the neck with a surgical blade. Fellow workers rushed him to the hospital where he died. Sohana SHO Bhagwant Singh said: ‘’A case under Section 302 of the IPC has been registered. The assailant has been identified and police teams have been formed to nab the suspect. The weapon has been seized.’’ — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/storekeeper-attacked-with-blade-succumbs-218365
28-02-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records warmest Feb night in 12 years||The city today witnessed its warmest night in February at least in 12 years. The minimum temperature was recorded at 18.8°C, which is as much as nine degrees above normal. As per the data available with the Chandigarh Meteorological Department from 2011 to date, this is the highest minimum temperature in the city.The highest minimum temperature in February was 17.7°C last year, 15.8°C in 2019 and 17.2°C in 2018. The night temperature in any single February day has remained lower than 18.8°C since 2011.Met Director Surender Paul said: “The night temperature increased quite above than normal last night due to cloudy sky. Night temperature generally increases during rain/cloudy weather as outgoing radiation is radiated back into atmosphere by clouds/water droplets. But, the temperature will come down now.”He said this February was a relatively warm month due to fewer western disturbances in this region. The sky remaining mostly clear for the past few days was the other reason for high temperatures. Meanwhile, last night’s 3.4mm rain brought maximum temperature down a bit today. From 32.7°C yesterday, maximum temperature came down to 29.6°C today. Yesterday’s temp was the highest maximum temp since 1954 in Chandigarh.Though the temp has come down, it is still five degrees more than normal. Next three days are expected to see a clear sky, says the Met Department. The maximum temp is expected to hover around 31°C. March to see temperatures above normalThe Met Director said the trend of warm temperature will continue in the coming days. “The first two weeks are expected to see temperatures above normal,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-warmest-feb-night-in-12-years-218366
28-02-2021||Chandigarh||Architects not happy with Estate Office functioning||Not satisfied with the functioning of the Estate Office, architects of the city have alleged that building plans submitted four to five years ago have not been given approval till date.Narrating their tale of woe at a press conference here today, the architects alleged that officials were dilly-dallying their building plans on one pretext or the other.Pooja Sharma, a resident of Sector 34, said in October 2015, she submitted documents to get the share transferred of a property. To obtain occupation certificate, she submitted drawings of the building and the completion certificate. After nearly a year, an official came for the inspection of the house. After checking, he then asked them to get the additional construction removed. When they removed the extra construction, the official then said the building plans of the second floor were not approved. The work, which could have been done in a span of short period, was still lying with the department for approval.Umesh Batra, another architect, said he had submitted a building plan on April 23, 2014, but was yet to get the approval.Structural engineer Tarun Mathur said he had submitted drawings with the department on June 20, 2017. In December 2019, he was asked to submit a fee for the release of the plan. But after five days, he was told to deposit the fee at the revised rates. Under the revised rates, he was to deposit Rs90 lakh instead of Rs6 lakh.Other architects also narrated their experiences with the department. Former nominated councillor and architect Pallav Mukkerjee and Naveen Manglani, chairman of the Chamber of Chandigarh Industries, were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/architects-not-happy-with-estate-office-functioning-218367
28-02-2021||Chandigarh||CHB to take call on extending deadline||The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) will take a decision on extending deadline for allowing need-based changes in flats in a meeting of the Board of Directors to be held on March 9.Previous deadlineThe UT Administration had earlier extended the deadline for allowing need-based changes up to December 31, 2020. The deadline had ended on December 31, 2018.An official said the CHB had proposed to extend the deadline for allowing need-based changes till December 31, 2021, and the proposal was submitted to the UT Administration for approval.Without giving any consent, the UT Administration had asked the CHB to take a decision on the issue on its own.Now, the proposal would be placed before the Board of Directors during a meeting to be held on March 9, he added.The UT Administration had earlier extended the deadline for allowing need-based changes up to December 31, 2020. The deadline had ended on December 31, 2018.The Administration had clarified that additional construction in flats were given temporary exemption from immediate demolition.The CHB had recently clarified that need-based changes were allowed in CHB dwelling units on the basis of a notification issued on February 15, 2019.The CHB had stated that the changes made beyond the criteria prescribed by the UT Administration in its notification on need-based changes would continue to be considered as violations.However, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore had recently directed the CHB to examine the demand of residents for one-time regularisation of additional construction on the Delhi pattern.Nirmal Datt, chairman of the CHB Residents’ Welfare Federation, had stated that the proposal to regularise need-based changes on the Delhi pattern would bring comprehensive relief to nearly 3 lakh CHB allottees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chb-to-take-call-on-extending-deadline-218368
28-02-2021||Chandigarh||Mansukh emerges champ in golf meet||City golfer Mansukh Sandhu shot an overall score of 288 to win the Samarvir Sahi Golf Championship at the Chandigarh Golf Club on Friday.Sandhu led from Day 1 till the final round of the tournament. Shubam Jaglan of Delhi came from behind to finish second with a total of 292. Aaron Rocky from Gujarat finished second runners-up with a score of 294. Golfers with 47 best scores teed off the final round.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mansukh-emerges-champ-in-golf-meet-218369
28-02-2021||Chandigarh||Madhya Pradesh bag max medals on Day 2||Madhya Pradesh bagged 10 medals on the second day of the 29th Senior National Men & Women Wushu Championship at Chandigarh University, Gharuan. CRPF won two gold medals, whereas Maharashtra claimed one gold medal.In the individual category, Anusha defeated Anjali Na and Shital Dabtniya overpowered Laxmi in the -45kg category bouts. Ekta Rosa Tirkey beat Pratikcha Thapa.In the -52kg category, Neha Sawariya defeated Sakshi Thakur, Surabhi Namdev overpowered Priti Jha and Nidhi Kumari ousted Dhanashri Kasare. In the -60kg category, Devika Rawat defeated Kavita, Prerena ousted Supriya P and Monika blanked Avanti Lodhi. Tanu Jarwal defeated M Hemalatha in the -65kg category, while Priyanka M defeated Sushila and Ashwini Botre outplayed Riya C. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/madhya-pradesh-bag-max-medals-on-day-2-218370
28-02-2021||Chandigarh||Judoka Kamini wins gold||Kamini Yadav defeated Mehak Singh to win the -48kg category final on the second day of the State Judo Championship organised by the Amateur Judo Association of Chandigarh at the Sector 34 Sports Complex today. Rachna and Jyoti claimed bronze medal each.In the -52kg final, Manisha easily overpowered Madhuri while Sakshi and Saniya Rai claimed joint bronze. In the -57kg category, Jyoti won the top position and Pooja claimed the second position. Shivani and Kairvi Sood claimed bronze medal each.Chanderpal bags goldChanderpal won gold in the men’s -60kg category by defeating Jatin Kumar. Himanshu and Vicky won bronze medal each. In the men’s -66kg event, Parmod Kumar and Saksham Sharma won first and second positions, respectively, while Sumit Thakur and Vansh Thakur claimed bronze. In the men’s -73kg category, Aryan won gold medal and Aman bagged silver. Fardeen and Nitin claimed bronze medal each. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/judoka-kamini-wins-gold-218371
28-02-2021||Mohali||Two arrested with narcotic pills, opium||The police have arrested two suspects - Jasveer Singh, alias Fauji, and Arun Kumar, alias Annu, - for allegedly drug smuggling. The police also recovered 1,920 narcotic pills and 500 grams of opium from them.Arun Kumar, 35, a resident of Baltana, and his partner Jasveer Singh, 50, of Lalru used to procure opium and narcotic pills from UP, Haryana, Rajasthan and Punjab and supply these to their clients in Mohali, Panchkula, Chandigarh and adjoining areas for the past two three years.Arun Kumar had already been booked in two cases of heroin smuggling at the STF, Mohali. Jasveer’s interrogation revealed that he had previously served in the Army. He retired from the Army in 2006. He had been serving the BSNL in Chandigarh for the past three years.A case under Sections 22, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act was registered against the suspects at the Zirakpur police station on February 26.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-arrested-with-narcotic-pills-opium-218372
28-02-2021||Chandigarh||Rushil marches ahead in tennis||Indian star Rushil Khosla registered a straight set 6-0, 6-0 win over Anirudh Sangra in the opening match of boys’ U-18 (round-2) match of the ITF World Tennis Tour Juniors (Grade-4) organised by the Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association (CLTA).Vishal Gautam registered a comeback 5-7, 6-4, 10-5 win over Aryan Thakur, whereas Manish Yadav blanked Aryanth Chintharlapalli 6-0, 6-2. Aditya Balda, another Indian player, defeated Nitin Sai Chowdary Koneru 6-2, 6-3, Saheb Sodhi ousted Parag Jain 6-3, 6-1, Aryan Arora beat Vivek Lakshay 6-4, 6-1 and Deep Munim defeated Rishi Jalota 6-2, 6-3. In the girls’ U-18 category, second seed Pavitra Parikh defeated Shriya Singh 6-0, 6-0.Results (1st round)Boys: Anirudh Sangra bt Mehraab Singh Rai 6-1, 6-0, Rushil Khosla bt Satvik Singla 6-0, 6-0, Vishal Gautam bt Yagna Patel 6-4, 6-0, Aryan Thakur bt Jay Prakash Pawar 6-0, 6-2, Manish Yadav bt Raghav Poonia 6-3, 6-1, Aryanth Chintharlapalli bt Abdullah Shakir 6-2, 6-2, Aditya Balda bt Pranav Mehta 6-2, 6-3, Nitin Sai Chowdary Koneru bt Aryan Kotasthane (IND) 6-3, 6-0 and Parag Jain bt Deepansh Lather 6-0, 6-2.Girls: Naisha Srivastav bt Millee Chug 6-4, 6-3, Pari Singh bt Riya Matharoo 6-1, 6-2, Tamanna Takoria bt Ananya Dogra 6-0, 6-1, Navya Vadlamudi bt Riya Sachdeva 6-4, 6-4, Pavitra Parikh bt Harnoor Sidhu 6-3, 6-0, Shriya Singh bt Catherine Bhangu 5-7, 6-4, 10-5, Hitakamya Singh Narwal bt Tamanna Narwal 6-1, 6-3, N Arunkumar bt Mehar Kohli 6-3, 6-2, M Krishnarajan bt Aditi Singh 6-4, 6-3, Steisha Buddhala bt Priyanshi Panigrahi 6-0, 6-1.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rushil-marches-ahead-in-tennis-218374
28-02-2021||Chandigarh||Samisha claims overall title||Samisha Teneja was adjudged the overall best gymnast of the girls’ U-12 rhythmic event on the second day of the State Gymnastics Championship at the Sector 7 Sports Complex here today. Pratigya Thingnam and Sofia Samber of Ankur Public School, Sector 14, claimed the second and third positions, respectively.In the rope event, Samisha, Pratigya and Manya Sharma claimed the first three positions, respectively, whereas in the ball event, Samisha claimed first, Pratigya finished second and Parul and Sofia claimed the joint third position. Samish won her third gold in the ribbon event, followed by Pratigya at second position, while Deep and Sofia at joint third. In club event, Pratigya claimed top podium, followed by Samisha at second and Punnyaa Dhanwal and Akshita at third place.In the artistic event, Aahana claimed the overall title, followed by Nishta at second position and Khushi at third. Aahana won her first gold in the floor event, followed by Nishta and Khushi at the second and third place, respectively. In the vaulting table event, Aahana, Nishta and Khushi claimed the first three positions, respectively.Aahana, thereafter, won another gold medal in the uneven bars event, while Anshika claimed second and Deepanshi bagged the third position. In the beam event, Nishta clinched the top spot, followed by Aahana at second and Khushi at third.Pratibha was named the best gymnast in the girls’ junior artistic event, while Manit Kaur claimed the second position and Aavya Shashi stood third. In the rope event, Manit, Pratibha and Arshnoor claimed the top three positions, respectively. Pratibha won the ball event, Manit finished second, while Arshnoor and Aavya claimed the joint third position. In the ribbon final, Manit, Pratibha and Ritika claimed the first three positions, respectively. Pratibha claimed another top finish in the club event, followed by Manit at second and Aavya at third.In the girls’ U-10 artistic event, Shrejal Goyat claimed first spot in the floor event and Arshia and Amyra claimed second and third positions, respectively. In the vault table final, Arshia, Shrejal and Diksha claimed the top three positions, respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/samisha-claims-overall-title-218375
28-02-2021||Chandigarh||Devansh, Mahit adjudged best shooters||Devansh Vashist and Mahit Sand were adjudged best shooters in the men’s and women’s category respectively, on the concluding day of the 45th State Shooting Championship organised by the Chandigarh Rifle Association at Patiala-Ki-Rao Shooting Range today.In the men’s 50m ISSF prone event, Vikas Prasad, Hitesh and Gurvinder Singh claimed the first three positions, respectively. Harsh Singla claimed the gold medal in the 50m rifle prone event, followed by Bharat Singh at the second position and Ajayveer at third.In the women’s 50m rifle prone event, Mahit claimed the pole position, while Insha Heer claimed second position and Naazreen Sidhu won bronze. In the junior women’s 50m rifle prone event, Mahit Insha and Naazreen claimed the top three positions, respectively.In the men’s 50m rifle 3P event, Ajayveer claimed the gold medal, Gurvinder claimed silver and Harsh claimed bronze. Babu Ram claimed 25m centre fire event gold, while Arnav Kansil and Akhileshwar claimed silver and bronze medals, respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/devansh-mahit-adjudged-best-shooters-218376
28-02-2021||Chandigarh||MC chief, councillor  reach out to residents||MC Commissioner KK Yadav and area councillor Davesh Moudgil today addressed the concerns of residents regarding waste segregation at source and collection to be started through waste-lifting vehicles in the southern sectors of the city from Monday.The meeting was held at the community centre in Sector 47 to raise awareness among people and take them to make the campaign a success. Other MC officials, including Additional Commissioner Sorabh Arora and MOH Dr Amrit Warring were also present.The residents were curious to know whether the waste collectors will collect waste from second or third floor also. Yadav told them as per the previous arrangements, they will collect waste from their door-steps.They were told that the charges will be collected through water bills and they need not pay to collectors. Rest, the timings of collection will be decided by sanitary inspectors in consultation with the residents.Moudgil said, “The aim is to make waste collection an organised system. Public participation was very important. The people were told that the collectors will work as they used to earlier.The MC is going to start this facility in southern sectors from March 1 onwards by deploying nearly 70 vehicles in the second phase. In the first phase, Sectors 1-30 have already been covered.He requested all residents of these sectors to cooperate with the MC by giving segregated waste i.e. dry and wet waste separately to the waste collectors so that the same may be processed technically.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-chief-councillor-reach-out-to-residents-218379
28-02-2021||Mohali||GMADA razes illegal structures at village||Cracking whip on illegal structures, officials of the regulatory wing of the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) today demolished illegal shops and buildings at Lambian village in Sector 69. Over five dozen illegal structures, including shops and houses, were demolished in the drive.Mahesh Bansal, Estate Officer (Regulatory), GMADA, said the land was acquired by GMADA and compensation given to land owners over two decade ago. These structures were in contravention to the provisions of the SAS Nagar Master Plan and the Punjab New Capital Periphery Control Act, 1952, he added. The drive went on peacefully and there was not resistance from violators, he said. Cabinet Minister and local MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu also arrived on the spot, met affected families and assured them proper compensation. He said said most residents had failed to provide documents of their buildings. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gmada-razes-illegal-structures-at-village-218380
28-02-2021||Zirakpur||Udayvir chairs 1st meeting of newly elected Cong councillors||The newly elected councillors of the Congress held their first post-election meeting at the Municipal Council office today. The meeting was chaired by Udayvir Singh Dhillon, Councillor from Ward No. 12 and son of Dera Bassi Congress in-charge Deepinder Singh Dhillon. It is pertinent to mention here that no notification has been issued for the post of council president. The Municipal Council was represented by Executive Officer Sandeep Tewari.Dhillon said, “Today’s meeting was held to acquaint the newly elected councillors with MC officials so that development work can take place without hindrance. We will leave no stone unturned in the development of the city.”Most of the women councillors were represented by their husband during the meeting. The Punjab government had reserved 50 per cent seats for women during the council elections to bring encourage active women participation in the development process. However, the overwhelming majority of husband attending at the meet proved otherwise.Of the total 31 wards of Zirakpur, the Congress has won 23 wards while the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) clinched eight wards.The Congress has 14 women councillors in the house while the SAD has two women among the eight winning councillors. Due to the large number of women, it was hoped that the house would be dominated by women and special arrangements would be made for women. However, in today’s meeting, only four out of 14 Congress women councillors were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/udayvir-chairs-1st-meeting-of-newly-elected-cong-councillors-218381
28-02-2021||Mohali||Trek-a-thon near Siswan on March 3||A trek-a-thon will be organised near the Siswan dam in the nearby forests to mark World Wildlife Day at Siswan Community Reserve by the Wildlife Division of the Department of Forests and Wildlife Preservation, Punjab, on March 3.Divulging details, Dr Monika Yadav, District Forest Officer, said this trek-a-thon was a step forward in bringing people to a common place with an intention to promote awareness about wildlife and its importance and Siswan Community Reserve was an ideal place for this. The Siswan Community Reserve holds a significant place in sustaining eco health of the area as well as livelihood of the nearby villagers.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan, ADC Aashika Jain, District Sports Officer Gurdeep Kaur are expected to participate in the trek-a-thon.Dr Yadav said there would be options for three different thematic tracks namely nature trail, sentience path and serenity lane for the visitors to choose from in the area near to the Siswan dam. These tracks were rough terrains that go through the forest area and were capable of providing a rich experience of forests because of pristine trails and dense forests. These forests were a home to several wildlife species such as barking deer, pangolin and golden jackal.Dr Yadav said visitors were requested to contact at 9855134040 to get registered and reach the Siswan dam by 8 am. The walk will conclude at Mirzapur Forest Rest House at 11.30 am.The Punjab Government had recently announced to develop and promote Siswan as a prime and preferred eco-tourism destination. Keeping in mind the immense tourism potential of the area, various initiatives have been taken up in the area. Primarily, visitor amenities such as nature interpretation centre, thematic gates and signage, food court, washroom facilities, nature trails and jungle safari would be provided. Conservation issues such as introduction of spotted deer, wild hares and other species, which once thrived in the area but have reduced in numbers through the years, were also being addressed, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/trek-a-thon-near-siswan-on-march-3-218384
28-02-2021||Panchkula||Panchkula first in Haryana to provide tap water to every household: Gupta||Panchkula has become the first district of Haryana to provide tap water connections to every household under the “Jal Jeevan Mission” of the Central Government.This claim was made by Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta while addressing a press conference at the PWD Rest House in Sector 1 here today. “Every village in the district is now getting water supply through taps,” he added. “There is a need to launch campaign to make people aware about the proper utilisation of water,” he said. “Water connections have been provided to 33,108 households in 128-gram panchayats,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-first-in-haryana-to-provide-tap-water-to-every-household-gupta-218385
28-02-2021||Chandigarh||Is UT Olympic Association politics in a mess?||Considering recent developments, politics in the Chandigarh Olympic Association (COA) has perhaps never stooped to such low.Even after spending four years together, distributing diet money cheques among associations and inviting/attending annual general house meetings of associations till February 14 this year, many associations were not informed about the election schedule, claimed sources.All these changes happened, when the COA president had already issued the election circular on February 14 to one and all units of the Olympic association.Notably, associations in question were part of the COA and called to attend the general house meeting/elections on March 17. During the last-term, the COA carried the legacy of ‘no tournaments in the city’.And the recent fall out between COA president Amarinder Singh Bazaz and general secretary Maha Singh has clearly revealed that politics is above sports’ development in the olympic association. The next house will be elected not on the basis of performance, but on the face value of a person.Is CWA headed by single family?An interesting fact emerged after the COA called in Chandigarh Wushu Association (CWA) to participate in the election process. The CWA is headed by two brothers. As per the COA constitution blood relatives cannot run one single association. The letters to the president and the general secretary (both brothers) of the CWA were sent to a common address.“We have called for Electoral College. The final list will be displayed after considering all these factors,” said a top COA official while seeking anonymity. Plenty of COA office-bearers are members of more than one association, which gives them commanding power.Will selected associations kept out of election?The last date of receiving names for the Electoral College from affiliated units is March 2. According to sources, letters were dispatched to selected associations on Friday as speed post services were closed on Saturday and Sunday. This way, selected associations are likely to be kept out of election loop.Reportedly, there are 36 associations affiliated to the COA. Two representatives from each association have voting rights.“There may be a case of allotting fake affiliation to association. However, the existing associations can’t just be removed overnight without approval of the general house and especially after the election circular has been issued. This will create a huge mess,” said a coach.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/is-ut-olympic-association-politics-in-a-mess-218386
28-02-2021||Chandigarh||Sector 38 Man held with marijuana||Cash stolen from gurdwara boxDera Bassi: Miscreants broke the collection box of the gurdwara at Isapur village on Thursday night and fled with cash. The CCTV footage shows two masked men cut open the grill of a window and turn the camera away around 1:30 am. In another incident, miscreants stole Rs 17,000 from the house of Talwinder Singh at Haripur Kuda village. TNS17-yr-old girl goes missingChandigarh: A Mauli Jagran resident reported that his 17-year-old daughter has been missing from her residence since February 25. A case under Section 363 of the IPC has been registered at the Mauli Jagran police station. TNSThree booked for cheatingChandigarh: The police have registered a case of cheating against Sector 20 residents Parvinder Singh, Balbir Singh and Mala Devi on the complaint of Anil Kumar. In his statement, the complainant mentioned that the suspects duped him of Rs27 lakh in lieu of sale of a house at Victoria Enclave in Pabhat. A case under Sections 406, 420 and 120-B of the IPC was registered at the Mani Majra police station on February 25. TNSMissing person report lodgedZirakpur: The police have registered a missing person report on the complaint of a Zirakpur resident, Avtar Singh. The complainant stated that Arjun Singh (19) had been missing from his house in New Defence Colony since February 2. The youth, who is mentally disturbed for the past sometime, left the house around 6 am. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-38-man-held-with-marijuana-218443
28-02-2021||---||Night curfew if cases mount: Chandigarh Administration||Chandigarh, February 26To prevent further transmission of the virus, the UT Administration will not hesitate in imposing nigh curfew and other restrictions if Covid-19 cases continue to mount in the city.Expressing serious concern over the laxity seen among people regarding the observance of the Covid protocol during a review meeting on the Covid-19 pandemic, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore said the option of night curfew, closure of markets, sealing of borders and restrictions in the number of people in different events would be considered in case the number of corona patients continued to rise. He regretted that people had thrown all caution to the wind, as if corona had totally disappeared. He appealed to the residents to cooperate with the Administration and strictly follow Covid appropriate behaviour such as wearing of masks, social distancing, washing hands and using a sanitiser.The Administrator said though he had directed normal OPD functioning in all medical institutions, keeping in view the increase in the number of corona cases, the directors concerned must take their in-house decision regarding the number of patients and other precautions to be taken on the premises. Dr Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, said the present strain seemed to be more severe as corona cases were surging in the region. Dr Mini of the PGI said 130 samples had been sent to Virology Institute in Pune and the report had not yet been received to ascertain whether it was a different strain. Dr Amandeep Kang, Director, Health Services, said five mobile teams had been positioned in different places to provide Covid-testing facilities to the residents. The Administrator directed that the mobile teams for testing should be sent to crowded places such as Apni Mandis, bus stands, railway station, Sukhna Lake and the Rose Festival venue, where people gathered in large numbers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/night-curfew-if-cases-mount-chandigarh-administration-218004
28-02-2021||Fearing a second wave of Covid-19||Jab sites now 16 in Chandigarh, private hospitals roped in||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jab-sites-now-16-in-chandigarh-private-hospitals-roped-in-218005
28-02-2021||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh Covid growth rate fourth highest in India||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 26After Kerala, Maharashtra and Punjab, the fourth highest seven-day growth rate of Covid-19 cases is led by none other than the City Beautiful.At 0.16 per cent growth rate, Chandigarh is witnessing a sudden surge in Covid-19 cases. On Friday, the UT witnessed 69 cases, an increase of 40 per cent over the previous day. The national growth rate stands at 0.13 per cent.An increase of 71 per cent was witnessed this week as the city continues to battle the surge. This week, the city recorded 288 cases, whereas 168 cases were seen in the preceding week. Despite the increase in cases, there has been no worrisome trend in the number of deaths as only three fatalities were recorded in the past seven days.Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, UT, said: “It is surprising to see that the cases are multiplying every day. While the number of fresh cases was 49 yesterday, the figure rose to 69 today. The number of testing is also increasing daily as more people are now getting themselves tested for the virus. On Friday, we conducted 1,700 tests. This implies that there is a prevalence of infection in the community. Complacent attitude of people will give rise to more infections. It is because of the same attitude that beneficiaries did not receive the Covid-19 vaccine.”The PGI had recently released a statement witnessing 100 per cent increase in Covid-19 patient load over the past 10 days. Prof GD Puri from the PGI said: “One may say that these are only two-digit numbers as of now but what is really worrying is the steady and fast increase. We just cannot afford to take it lightly, more so, because the newly detected mutant strain is far more transmissible.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-covid-growth-rate-fourth-highest-in-india-218009
