01-12-2020||Opinion||Blood on sand: Killing of Mohsen Fakhrizadeh||The reverberations of the killing of Mohsen Fakhrizadeh — Israeli and American intelligence believe that the scientist was the driving force behind Tehran’s nuclear weapons programme — are unlikely to be limited within Iran. It would have broad implications not only in the Middle East but also in the West. Iran has accused Israel, its principal regional adversary, of the murder. Fakhrizadeh, Iran alleges, is not the only scientist to be killed by Israel’s shadowy — lethal — security apparatus. At least five other nuclear scientists met with a similar fate in the last decade, or so says Iran. The goal, apparently, is to cripple Iran’s nuclear projects that Tehran professes to be ‘peaceful’ in nature. Israel and the West, of course, would have none of this pious pledge from Tehran. The fragile status quo in the Middle East is unlikely to hold if blood continues to be shed. Iran has already vowed retaliation at a time of its choosing. This is likely to deepen the frowns in Washington where the incoming dispensation led by Joe Biden is expected to open dialogue with Iran on the nuclear deal that had been nixed by his predecessor, Donald Trump, whose comprehension of the intricacies in the Middle East remained questionable during a fractious presidentship. The rekindling of mutual trust is of fundamental importance for the renewed negotiations between the United States of America and Iran to succeed. But Fakhrizadeh’s murder is certain to cast a long shadow on the proceedings. This does not augur well because the US has a decisive stabilizing role in this restive region. A hint of complicity would undermine the US’s credentials. Mr Biden must also keep an eye on the churn in the Middle East. There are reports that Israel is mending the proverbial fence with a number of Arab nations: Sunni Saudi Arabia, another competitor of Tehran, is among them. This fraternizing between traditional rivals is likely to add to Shia Iran’s anxieties. Provoked beyond a point, a besieged Tehran may opt for a rash response. What every stakeholder needs are calm heads, not covert assassins, to resolve the thorny Middle Eastern question.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-109
01-12-2020||Opinion||Star player: Goodbye Diego Maradona||Sir — It was heartbreaking to learn that the Argentinian football player, Diego Maradona, succumbed to heart failure at the age of 60 last week (“Maradona dead”, Nov 26). Maradona became a household name after he led the Argentinian football team to victory in the Fifa 1986 World Cup. In a team sport like football, it is quite difficult for a player to distinguish himself, but Maradona, with his exceptional skills, was a star player from the very beginning. The death of the controversial legend is a huge loss for football. He will be missed. Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai Sir — Speaking to an Argentinian television channel in 2014, the “God of Football”, Diego Maradona, had remarked, “Do you know the player I could have been if I hadn’t taken drugs?” This, alas, is a question that has been pondered by all football fans. Maradona, who recently passed away from a cardiac arrest, was plagued by addiction and other health problems all his life. To all those who have followed his career and his life, his early demise, although saddening, does not come as a surprise. Maradona, while being an exceptional player, battled drug addiction and alcohol dependency most of his life. But, in spite of all his infamy, he will be remembered most for his controversial goal in the 1986 Fifa World Cup quarter-finals against England where he allegedly scored the first goal of the game ‘a little with the head and a little with the hand of God’. Things turned for the worse in the 1990s, and he was banned twice by Fifa for testing positive for cocaine and banned stimulants. His behaviour grew increasingly errant at this time. Maradona fired an air rifle at photographers and reporters outside his home in Buenos Aires in 1994. Later, he received a suspended jail sentence of two years and 10 months for the incident. Millions of football lovers like myself believe that Maradona was undoubtedly one of the greatest athletes of all time. It is, however, unseemly to compare the talents of Maradona and the Brazilian football great, Pelé, who was 20 years his senior. In fact, when Pelé mourned the loss of Maradona, saying, “I lost a great friend and the world lost a legend”, he showed the world what true sportsmanship is. No matter his struggles, Maradona will be remembered for his formidable skills on the football field. Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee,Faridabad Sir — Indian football fans were exhilarated when their idol, Diego Maradona, visited the country. His visits to Calcutta and Kannur — both places are known for their love of football — are remembered with fondness. Hailing from Kannur, I remember and cherish the day Maradona came to our city eight years ago to attend a private event. The whole city was in a frenzy and I remember that the roads and the premises of the hotel in which Maradona stayed were crammed with football fans. The streets of Kannur were filled with huge posters, banners and hoardings to welcome the Argentinian legend. This visit continues to be a matter of pride for all his fans in Kerala. Interestingly, the hotel room in which he stayed during his visit has been turned into a shrine by the owner, who is an ardent Maradona fan himself. Although he is no longer with us, these wonderful memories will keep millions of his fans going. M. Pradyu,Kannur Sir — I was not a fan of football until I saw a snippet of a match in which Diego Maradona was playing back in the early 1980s. The Argentinian player’s exceptional skill was the reason why I developed an interest in the game. It is unfortunate that he struggled with addiction all his life. Undoubtedly one of the greatest football players of all time, had Maradona led a disciplined life he would have scaled far greater heights in the game. Mohua Sen Dasgupta,Calcutta Make a move Sir — As people continue to be restricted to their homes as a result of Covid-19, the World Health Organization has, once again, stressed the importance of exercise for physical and mental well-being. This is particularly important for the elderly who, having been locked in for months, are now finding basic physical activity difficult. Staying active can be challenging for the aged, but even light exercise can be immensely helpful and reduce the risk of stroke, heart attack and cognitive decline. In such trying times we must do our best to ensure that our loved ones remain healthy. Anamika Saha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-109
01-12-2020||Opinion||The wronged: No sipper for Swamy||The right to live with dignity is non-negotiable. It is the responsibility of a constitutional democracy to ensure that this right is not applied selectively. But there is mounting evidence to suggest that the application of the right is far from universal. The indignities suffered by Father Stan Swamy — now in prison as an accused in the Bhima-Koregaon case — are a case in point. The activist, an octogenarian and suffering from Parkinson’s disease, has been forced to apply — twice — for such basic amenities as a straw and a sipper so that he can drink water. The response of the special court and National Investigation Agency to this perfectly justified plea has been shocking. The NIA was given 20 days by the court to file a response; when the investigative agency denied the charge, the court rejected the priest’s application, forcing the ailing man to file a fresh petition — for a straw and sipper. A perverse kind of insensitivity seems to inform the conduct of authorities when it comes to the treatment of dissenters who find themselves in New India’s prisons. G.N. Saibaba, a political prisoner who suffers from crippling disability, was forced to resort to a hunger strike to get access to medical records and books; hospital visits have been allegedly denied to Shoma Sen; the accused in the Delhi riots cases have been forced to petition the court to get warm clothing. These sufferings are consistent with what undertrials — they constitute 70 per cent of India’s prisoners — are forced to endure. Data published by the National Crime Records Bureau since 2000 reveal that over 26,000 individuals have lost their lives in judicial custody; illness, made worse by poor sanitary conditions, minimal facilities and overcrowding, remains one of the primary causes of the growing mortality rate in jails. There is concern that the authorities are taking advantage of Covid-19-induced restrictions to turn prisons even more opaque. It is not as if the rules and rights of inmates are unclear. India’s highest has reiterated the need for treating prisoners with dignity and pressed for prison reform. That the lower rungs of the jail administration need to be sensitized cannot be denied. But that should not deflect attention from another kind of laxity: the absence of political will for humane treatment. A political fraternity hell-bent on demonizing prisoners is complicit in heaping indignities on these citizens.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-109
01-12-2020||Opinion||Common loss: E-access to justice||The ruling party in India moves with the times. Its tech-savvy approach to problems and propaganda and its enthusiastic endorsement of digital routes wherever possible are indicators of this. That demonetization forced cashless payments to shoot up made it praiseworthy, obliterating the dubious scores in its professed goals of eliminating black money or stopping terror funding. With its eye on technology, the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government seems rather tardy about noticing issues of access. It was eager for online education even before educational institutions closed down for the pandemic. When that happened, the education ministry took time to note that an enormous number of students had no access, or uncertain and irregular access, to online lessons and study-related communication. It is thus greatly reassuring that the Chief Justice of India, S.A. Bobde, expressed concern about the inequality created by the reliance on technology at a meet arranged by the Supreme Court to celebrate Constitution Day.  The CJI was referring to inequality in the sphere of justice delivery: that the biggest challenge for the courts was delivering justice unhampered to the ‘common man’. Since the notion of justice is based on equality and fairness, this would naturally be painful to anyone who administers it. The pandemic forced a ‘bind’, because hearings had to be conducted through video conferencing or courts had to shut down altogether. But closing courts would mean blocking the rule of law. Yet at the same time, for large sections of Indians, courts seem to have disappeared anyway since they had no access to the necessary technology. The CJI requested the minister for law and telecommunications, Ravi Shankar Prasad, to find ways to ensure access as much as possible. Mr Prasad, however, expressed his happiness at the number of cases that the courts had heard in spite of the difficult situation, and condemned the increase in unfounded criticism of the judiciary. The response of the attorney general of India was rather more puzzling. He looked forward to a time when there would be live streaming of hearings from the courts. But it is the people that the CJI was talking about, specifically the ‘common man’ with no access to technology. How would live streaming help him? Somehow, he vanished from the discourse after the CJI’s reference to him||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-109
01-12-2020||Opinion||Learning in the time of Covid||By now, teachers across India are inured to online teaching. The abruptness of the move in March was a shock to the system and institutions took what they thought were emergency, one-time measures, only to realize that the online classroom will continue for now and, possibly, into the next semester as well. A few months ago, we formed ‘Discussion Forum for Online Teaching’, a support group for college and university teachers in India, to facilitate conversations within the community about the problems related to online teaching. These conversations — they took place over email, via online articles, discussion groups and also through panel discussions — aimed at sharing experiences and facilitating learning from one another. We have also carried out an informal, nationwide survey with voluntary participation. Our respondents were primarily teaching at the tertiary level and, in some cases, at the secondary level. The sample size is small (about 800), but it appears to be representative of teachers working in Tier I and II cities. Some of what one can learn from the responses could well have been anticipated. Many months of entirely online teaching has resulted in most of the respondents being comfortable with the new system. Many teachers were positive about the advantages of teaching online. However, since most students are at home, the digital divide plays out in every kind of institution since access is mediated by the location of their homes. An estimated 10-40 per cent of the students are unable to attend online classes regularly: only 4 out of 10 teachers said that their students had adequate bandwidth and power for the entire duration of classes. A good 10 per cent said that more than 40 per cent of the students were unable to attend the classes. Connectivity is a common problem: 40 per cent or more of the class ends up having intermittent access to the lecture. Teachers have made exceptional efforts to get their instruction across to students. The stories they shared are inspiring — one extreme example being that of a teacher based in a village who has rented a room with internet connectivity in a different town in order to conduct classes. However, there has been a serious lack of institutional support in providing hardware and adequate internet bandwidth to teachers. Some had been provided with computers before the lockdown, but without such facilities as webcam, graphing tablets and so on that improve the delivery of online classes. Teachers have, therefore, had to invest personal funds for hardware as well as for software. Our survey revealed that one in two teachers have spent about Rs 10,000 while one in ten has spent more than Rs 50,000 without subsidy or support from their institutions. A majority of teachers — approximately 75 per cent in our survey — deliver classes from their homes using either a laptop or a desktop computer. While all students take classes from home, seven out of ten access online classes on their smartphones: the devices are often shared. Phone cameras are also kept switched off during the class, leading to a near absence of audio-visual feedback and a unidirectional flow of information from teacher to student. The instruction template is not only severely shrunk (making the writing difficult to read) but is also detrimental to concentration that is necessary for learning. Since education is a concurrent subject, solving problems at the local level would not be enough and both state and Central policies need to be re-examined. In the short term, for instance, it is crucial that measures should be taken to mitigate the digital divide that exists among students, among teachers, and among various institutes. Online education is expensive for students; therefore subsidies are needed. Data must be made cheaper, connectivity needs to improve, and devices provided to those who cannot afford them. But beyond this, there is an urgent need to revisit education policies to recognize the changed reality. The effects of the Covid-19 pandemic will not pass quickly, and online instruction will persist for quite some time. Such a medium requires much more effort in terms of preparation and delivery, and this extra effort needs to be accounted for, including the associated fatigue. Greater pedagogic autonomy and flexibility are essential. Administrative decisions and intervention are urgently needed in the area of examination and evaluations. Having an inadequate and flawed process at such a time can lead to a devaluation of the degrees at a later time. We need to act, and quickly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-109
01-12-2020||Opinion||A new jurisprudence||The observations of Justice D.Y. Chandrachud while considering the bail application of Arnab Goswami reflected the spirit of the Constitution. The judge said that if the top court does not interfere in the event of an illegal arrest, “we are travelling a path of destruction”. Liberty of the individual is the first promise of the fundamental law. While the procedural prescriptions in the Code of Criminal Procedure that mandate the filing of bail applications before the competent court need to be the norm, those should not prevent the top court from invoking its jurisdiction to favour liberty in critical situations. Justice Chandrachud’s dissenting view in the Bhima Koregaon case (Romila Thapar vs Union of India (2018)), in which he advocated for liberty of the activists and their right to a fair investigation, was more than a dissent. Judicial history demonstrates that the dissents from the bench during unjust political situations have acted as long-term institutional critique persuading the court to introspect. As Justice Hugo Black described, those were intended for “the intelligence of the future day”. Viewed so, the criticism of the court by the comedian, Kunal Kamra, is, again, an institutional criticism in a different language. The tweets may even be annoying or shocking to a conventional institutional mindset. The fact that the attorney general granted sanction to prosecute Kamra does not mean that he is guilty. It doesn’t even mean that the court will initiate action for contempt. Rule 3 of the rules to regulate proceedings for contempt of the Supreme Court, 1975 says that the attorney general’s consent is needed to examine a petition seeking initiation of contempt proceedings. It only means that the top court gets an opportunity to go deeper into the content of the criticism while deciding whether the comedian should be proceeded against. The entire criticism against the Supreme Court has a constitutional basis as Article 14 promises equality before the law and equal protection of the laws. Al Jazeera reported that “India’s Supreme Court [is] in [the] spotlight over bail for divisive anchor.” In a report in The Wire, Ismat Ara and Sukanya Shantha have given a long list of activists, journalists and politicians who are incarcerated in different jails in the country as their bail applications were rejected. How the Supreme Court has attempted to change its philosophy on rights and even its public image immediately after the Emergency is a crucial lesson in India’s legal history. What one should be careful to find out is the invisible linkage between the dissent, say, of Justice H.R. Khanna and the perceptions of the later Supreme Court. The Supreme Court is criticized for the alleged selective approach, rather than for granting bail to the television journalist. One could think that in a given case, the court is concerned only with legal adjudication rather than an ethical or political assessment of the individual or the causes that led to the individual’s predicament. The legal constitutionalism adopted by the Chandrachud-Banerjee bench, however, cannot erase the relevance of the criticism of the court as an institution, which is essentially based on political constitutionalism. The legal scholar, Marco Goldoni, while dealing with the limits and possibilities of political constitutionalism, has described its tenets and said that political equality is its ‘reference point’. He says that “while equality before the law (isonomia) is certainly to be counted among the founding principles of legal constitutionalism, political equality as the equal chance to have one’s voice heard (isegoria) constitutes the building block of democratic politics" (Two Internal Critiques of Political Constitutionalism). Therefore, it follows that a political criticism of the court as an institution is in a broader realm and it has deeper connotations. Such criticisms of the court have arisen in very many constitutional democracies and dictatorial democracies in recent times. These are not directed against the attitude of the courts alone but they are also about the legislative gestures that enacted the draconian laws and the executive postures which invoked them. As such, Kamra’s criticism needs to be analysed in the light of the factors that encourage the present day’s aggrandizing executive, a legislature that made it, and a judiciary impacted by it. On a closer scrutiny, even the offensive vocabulary in Kamra’s tweets would call for such a deeper analysis. The State has been misusing the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act along with the penal provisions on sedition quite selectively. Equally rampant has been the misuse of Section 144 of the CrPC to suppress even peaceful protests. Riots in Delhi exposed a partisan police with scant regard for the rule of law or the sense of justice. Frequent preventive arrests reminded of the days of the Emergency. In a number of cases, dissidents of the government were booked and kept in jail. The State rigorously opposed their bail applications and the trial courts or the high courts, as the case maybe, very often declined bail. The ‘apathy’ of the high court in these cases is more or less similar to the situation in Goswami’s case that annoyed the highest court. The top court has to take stock of these episodes and consider them as a batch of cases involving individual liberty under Article 19 and Article 21 of the Constitution and immediately set the detainees free by imposing conditions if required. These cases may have very many differences in terms of facts, but there could be more similarities and common factors in all of them which, if not addressed immediately, could take us to “the path of destruction”. This, the Supreme Court can do even by invoking Article 142 of the Constitution, which is meant to do “complete justice”.  The scope of Article 142 in the context of liberty was explained by Justice Chandrachud in the case of Romila Thapar’s dissent. It may be difficult for one to imagine such a legal scenario, but it is not impossible legally or constitutionally. We need to develop a new jurisprudence on institutional criticism, especially that concerning the court.  The very existence of the law of criminal contempt and laws on sedition will have to be dealt with in that adjudicative exercise. It is not the misuse of these laws but their very existence that threaten our democracy. An approach that limits the use of such laws in only those cases that pose real and immanent threat to the nation will have to be evolved. Perhaps the Kunal Kamra episode can pose fundamental questions relating to our democracy which the Supreme Court may have to address by invoking its introspective jurisdiction, even by taking a clue from what Justice Chandrachud said while considering the plea by Goswami.  The author is a lawyer in the Supreme Court||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-109
