02-12-2020||Opinion||Think again: Ayurveda surgery||Sir — The demand of India’s largest body of doctors, the Indian Medical Association, to withdraw the notification allowing ayurveda practitioners to be trained in surgery — 39 general procedures and around 19 procedures involving the eye, ear, nose and throat — is justified (“Fatal mix”, Nov 30). While some forms of surgery have been part of ayurveda treatment for centuries, it does not explain the decision to mix up two very different systems of medical science. Allowing ayurveda practitioners to perform complex surgical procedures of modern medicine, even with some training, is problematic. More importantly, the patients must never be left in the dark about who is treating them — an allopath or an ayurveda practitioner. The patient has the right to choose what system of medicine he wants to be treated under. The IMA has therefore correctly raised questions about post-operative care and infection control mechanisms. The implementation of the notification could place thousands of gullible patients at risk. Khokan Das,Calcutta Sir — The Centre’s decision to license ayurveda practitioners to perform surgeries is not right. Ayurveda may have its place as a traditional and alternative system of medicine in India but not in surgery. Surgery is a complex exercise, necessitating skill and years of extensive training, along with the knowledge of hygiene and infection control. If the step has been taken to address the shortage of trained personnel in the vast rural areas of the country, then the authorities should consider training nurses in surgical procedure. In the West, nurse practitioners, trained in principles of modern medicine, are allowed to participate in medical procedures, although in a restricted way. It is likely that nurses would be willing to spend more time with patients, and provide services like health education, counselling as well as care co-ordination. Incentives to work in rural areas could encourage them to work there. After all, nurses are the backbone of our healthcare system. It is interesting to note that the political leaders who extol the virtues of ayurveda to the common man do not visit professionals in that field during a medical emergency. Instead, they fly abroad or rush to the nearest corporate hospital to have their ailment treated. The people of India deserve better than to be treated as per fields of medicine which are yet to be supported by scientific evidence. H.N. Ramakrishna,  Bangalore Sir — The government seems intent on bringing down every sector responsible for public welfare. The new notification that would allow ayurveda practitioners to handle surgeries is a big blow to the healthcare system. The political agenda behind this step is clear: the ruling dispensation at the Centre wants to gain more votes by claiming to bring back ancient India’s medical techniques to the limelight. India should move forward in time, not backwards. This decision must be resisted at all costs. D. Sengupta,Mumbai Sir —  The Centre plans to introduce medical pluralism by 2030. This is also mentioned in the National Education Policy. The government’s nod to allow postgraduate practitioners of ayurveda to perform surgery may not be a wise decision. However, if the decision is not rolled back, the aspiring surgeons should be selected on the basis of a common entrance. No back-door entry should be permitted. Basudeb Dutta,Nadia  Play fair Sir — During the first one-day international match between India and Australia in Sydney, two men invaded the pitch, holding placards against the alleged decision of the State Bank of India to provide a loan to an Indian conglomerate for a controversial coal-mine project Down Under. This attracted the attention of thousands of viewers in the two countries — following the match possibly for its entertainment value — raising awareness on the issue. The match resumed soon after; but the brief protest reminded the world that it is not wise to ignore reality, no matter how grim it may be. Moupiya Gupta,Calcutta Step forward Sir — While the entire world is engaged in the search for a vaccine for Covid-19, one should not forget other deadly afflictions. This year World AIDS Day, which is observed on December 1, brought some positive news. The latest UNAIDS report revealed that the maximum decline in new infections in the Asia Pacific region over the last decade was achieved by India. This shows that even though the eradication of HIV/AIDS is a far cry, the test-and-treat strategy has been implemented effectively in the country. Similar models should be adopted for other medical issues, such as mental health and venereal diseases, that suffer from low awareness and poor treatment, especially outside major cities and towns. Prashanta Sarkar,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-108
02-12-2020||Opinion||Gloom deepens: Indian economy in recession||The Indian economy has technically entered a phase of recession, which is defined as two consecutive quarters of decline in real (inflation adjusted) gross domestic product. The first quarter had experienced a decline of 23.9 per cent while the second quarter results show a decline of 7.5 per cent on a year-on-year basis. The second quarter results are much better compared to the first quarter. This was expected since production has restarted in a number of sectors of the economy. The chief economic adviser has described the results as encouraging and there is word that the recovery would be even more discernable in the next two quarters. Agriculture has been doing well with good monsoons and subsidized inputs. The growth of the manufacturing sector in gross value added was 0.6 per cent this quarter compared to a decline of 39 per cent in the previous quarter. The Markit India Purchasing Managers’ Index has increased to 54.1, which indicates an expansion in business orders. However, not all signals are encouraging, and it may be early days to predict a sustained recovery. The core sector comprising eight infrastructure industries has contracted by 2.5 per cent in October compared to a decline of 0.1 per cent in September this year. The fiscal deficit is already at 119.7 per cent of the target by the end of the first half of the current fiscal year. Consumer spending, the most important component of aggregate demand in the economy, has shrunk by 11.5 per cent in the second quarter. According to the Reserve Bank of India, credit growth has been only to the extent of about 5 per cent despite a number of schemes announced by the finance ministry and the RBI regarding soft loans available for businesses. Going forward, the lack of consumer demand will continue to be a critical factor in determining the pace of recovery. The fiscal deficit is stretched and there is not much space for fiscal policy to provide stimulation. With the consumer price index inflation rates hovering around 7 per cent, much above the RBI’s comfort zone of 2 to 6 per cent, the room for monetary policy stimulation is also limited. The main reasons for the slack in consumer demand are the widespread closures and retrenchment of labour along with significant pay cuts for those who have retained their jobs. Hence, the recessionary inertia might continue into the fiscal year, 2021-22. In such a situation, international trade and export demand can provide a fillip for recovery. But the chances are low on that count as the nation appears to be veering towards a more protectionist stance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-108
02-12-2020||Opinion||War against education in South Asia||Students in Kabul demanded protection from the government after gunmen attacked Kabul University in early November. The assaulters took students and teachers hostage and killed 22 people. The attack on Kabul University should not be seen as an isolated incident. It was the second strike on an education establishment in Kabul in recent times. The question is this: why are attacks on educational institutions on the rise? The Global Coalition to Protect Education from Attack estimates that over 22,000 students, teachers and academics have been injured, killed or harmed in attacks between 2015 and 2020. In South Asia, all countries except Bhutan have experienced attacks on educational institutions. In the first decade of this century, several schools were set ablaze in Kashmir; school buildings were destroyed in the tribal areas of central India too. Nepal also witnessed attacks on private and government schools during the people’s war years of 1996-2006. Countries ravaged by internal conflicts are being forced to confront the challenge of protecting schools and universities. Strife-torn Afghanistan is one example. Schools and universities keep alive the hopes of a peaceful world and a promising future. If teachers and students are getting attacked within campuses and institutions being destroyed, how can a community or a country succeed in rewriting the future? There are other problems as well. Boys and girls are vulnerable because of the continued pressure to join militias. In 2010, al Shabaab in Somalia kidnapped 2,000 students for military training. In 2011, it added 948 children — mostly school students — to its armed contingent. Al Shabaab also kidnapped schoolgirls and married them off to their commanders and fighters. A significant number of students are dropping out of schools in Afghanistan and Syria. Boys often find it useful to join armed groups because the militias help them gain power and provide them with a means of livelihood. Girls, on the other hand, are forced to drop out of school. The Nobel laureate, Malala Yousafzai — 12 years old then — had been shot and injured for attending school. Religious and extremist groups are against women’s education. In 2014, the Boko Haram, which is opposed to modern education for women, kidnapped 276 girl students after attacking a school in Chibok, Nigeria. Syria, meanwhile, suffers aerial attacks on schools, forcing Syrian children to stay out of school. These transgressions underline the importance of establishing a connection between education and terrorism. Why are teachers and children turning into targets? Who are their allies during conflict? A conversation with a group of teachers from Afghanistan had revealed that even though they wanted to remain neutral, situations force them to take sides. They said that local commanders wield influence in remote villages while cities are controlled by the armed forces. Teachers were killed for disobeying the orders of local commanders. A number of university teachers have even left their jobs because of the threat to their lives. Afghanistan must not only ponder the threat to education but also what kind of education is being imparted. There is also a case to analyse content and textbooks. Different regimes, from the Parcham Party to the Taliban, promoted their own curriculum and textbooks to orient students in their ideologies. Each regime wants to promote a specific ideology, undermining the scope of co-existence, diversity, peace and harmony that can be achieved through education. In some other countries — Indonesia, for instance — religious extremist groups have got in touch with a substantial number of students in order to propagate their ideology. The discourse on international peace and harmony must consider the threat to education. It is not enough to post guards in universities. There must be a long-term strategy to deal with the violence being inflicted on students and teachers and on curriculum and textbooks. Education is of fundamental importance to children on the margins. Unless decision-makers remain vigilant about what is being taught in schools, educational institutions will remain at a risk, be it in Afghanistan or in other countries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-108
02-12-2020||Opinion||Unequal tongues||One of the fallouts of the revocation of Article 370 that has arguably given a new meaning to the constitutional relationship between Jammu and Kashmir and India is the adoption of five languages — Hindi, Kashmiri, Dogri, Urdu and English — as the official languages of J&K. After getting the president’s assent, the Act in this regard was notified by the Union ministry of law and justice on September 27, 2020. Language has proven to be at the heart of political consciousness and assertion and has shaped history in the subcontinent. In India, it led to the passage of the States Reorganisation Act, 1956, thereby creating linguistic states. Pakistan was fissured into two halves as Urdu was forcibly imposed on Bengali-speaking East Pakistan. The importance of linguistic identities in J&K, with a population of nearly 12.5 million, is no different and has often shaped political undercurrents in this sensitive region. The decision to exclude some languages spoken in J&K has, understandably, triggered protests over the denial of the recognition accorded to the five languages. J&K’s debate on linguistic recognition has a multi-dimensional connotation, both internal as well as external, and, yet again, exposes the decades-old systemic flaw of top-down policymaking on J&K marked by the lack of an ability to tap into accrued institutional knowledge. J&K was created in the 19th century by merging diverse cultural and geographical units. While the Kashmir Valley has its own distinct culture and language, sparsely populated Ladakh, which scaffolds Kashmir Valley to the north, is the gateway to Tibetan and Central Asian culture and ethnicities. Geographically and religiously diverse Jammu, to the south, adjoins culturally akin western and eastern parts of the once united Punjab province. Urdu became the official and de facto link language in culturally and linguistically diverse J&K in 1889 replacing Persian. The introduction of Urdu inadvertently shaped the politics of the future. The monarchs encouraged Urdu literates from neighbouring Punjab to settle in J&K. Faced with a scarcity of job opportunities, a section of the Kashmiri Pandit community, which had traditionally been the administrative class in the Valley, petitioned the princely rulers from time to time to discourage this practice. This led the princely ruler to enact a state subject law on April 20, 1927 that made it difficult for outsiders to possess land and get jobs in J&K. In a changed political context, the new political elite in 1954 enacted its own state subject law that defined a ‘Permanent Resident’ in J&K. A PR was a state subject on May 14, 1954, one who had been a resident of the state for 10 years and had lawfully acquired immovable property in the state. Its abolition became one of the foundational tenets of the Bharatiya Jana Sangh, which later became the Bharatiya Janata Party on April 6, 1980, as it argued that the concept of PR of J&K goes against the concept of one India. Although Urdu was the only official language of J&K, as per the 2011 census, Urdu speakers numbered merely 19,000. In the pre-Independence era, the two broad linguistic distinctions in J&K were Kashmiri and a second group of akin languages, namely Dogri, Gojri, Pahari and Punjabi. For a long time, the second group was stated to be different dialects of Punjabi. It is a lesser-known fact that while the princely state of J&K was popularly known as ‘Kashmir’ the non-Kashmiri-speaking segment comprises more than 60 per cent of J&K’s population. The bifurcation of J&K in 1947 kept the Kashmir Valley more or less intact while dividing the more populous and religiously diverse Jammu. The population of Jammu, as per the 1941 census, was 1.9 million whereas that of Kashmir was 1.7 million. In the post facto reality of 1947, the two linguistic groups became nearly equal on the Indian side of J&K although the Kashmiri-speaking population marginally surpassed the other group. Being the single-largest linguistic group on the Indian side of J&K, the Kashmiri language was recognized in the Eighth Schedule of the Indian Constitution, which lists the official languages of the Republic of India. Each language, previously termed as a dialect of Punjab, started asserting its distinctiveness. For instance, after 50 years of effort by a progressive group of writers, poets and intellectuals like Ram Nath Shastri and Padma Sachdev, Dogri, spoken in Jammu, was finally recognized in the Eighth Schedule in 2003. As per the 2011 census, out of the 12.5 million residents of J&K, 6.7 million speak Kashmiri and 2.6 million speak Dogri. The 2011 census enumerates that 2.6 million speak Hindi in J&K. In fact, this figure needs to be unpacked to get a better sense of the actual reality. Census enumerators have denoted speakers of Gojri and Pahari, spoken in the border districts of J&K along the Line of Control, as Hindi speakers in addition to some other languages spoken in J&K. In contrast to Kashmiri and Dogri, the other languages are not recognized in the Eighth Schedule. The census mentions separately that the number of Gojri speakers is approximately 1.2 million and that of Pahari speakers around 1 million in J&K. Gojri and Pahari have their own importance in the context of J&K. They are collectively spoken by at least 17 per cent on the Indian side of J&K. Gojri is spoken by Gujjars-Bakherwals who live in Jammu as well as in the Kashmir Valley and a large section of their population are seasonal nomads. In J&K all of them are Muslims. Outside J&K, the vast majority of Gujjars are Hindus, particularly in the region around Delhi. The other linguistic identity, Pahari, a language akin to Pothwari spoken in the Rawalpindi-Jhelum belt of Pakistani Punjab, has a unique geopolitical significance. On the Indian side, Pahari is spoken in the districts of Baramulla and Kupwara of Kashmir Valley and in Rajouri and Poonch in Jammu along the LoC. It is a religiously diverse linguistic group. In Pakistan-administered Jammu and Kashmir, which excludes Gilgit-Baltistan, Pahari is the main language spoken by at least three million residents. Many British Muslims are originally from Mirpur and Kotli districts of PAJK. If the number of first-generation and second-generation British citizens are included, then globally Pahari speakers would be more than four million. A lot of work has been done in the Pahari community by the diaspora. A magazine journal, Chitka, was published in the 1990s. BBC radio has programmes in Pahari. Pahari, as understood by Indian census enumerators, is also spoken in Himachal Pradesh and Uttaranchal although the Pahari spoken in one state is quite different from the other. Apart from Pahari and Gojri, there are 60-odd languages that are listed under the category, ‘Hindi’, and they include languages such as Bhojpuri, which has seen an explosion in cinematic and musical output. The prevailing political vacuum in J&K has eliminated a feedback loop that could better inform policymaking based on ground realities and past experiences. Many laws formulated in the last one year were amended later. On account of the significant presence of speakers on both sides of the LoC, the claim of linguistic groups like Gojri and Pahari is difficult to ignore. Ignoring such claims may fuel language wars in this sensitive region. In addition, the ramifications of the official recognition have to be thought through by factoring in administrative efficiency and market competitiveness. If we apply the model of Indian states, all official matter and possibly STEM (science, technology, engineering and mathematics) courses will have to be translated into the official languages. At this stage, hardly any language native to J&K is equipped to meet this goal. L. Puri is the author of Across the LoC||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-109
