03-12-2020||Opinion||Home fires: BTech in mother tongues||The present Indian government is constituted of experts in all fields. Else it would be difficult to account for the education ministry’s announcement that the Indian Institutes of Technology and National Institutes of Technology will offer BTech courses in the mother tongue besides English from 2021. This is, ostensibly, to make the course accessible to those without an English medium education. It does not matter that academics associated with advanced technical education insist that selecting meritorious students from non-English medium backgrounds is not difficult, and that they subsequently follow their lessons perfectly well. Instead, the government is busy imposing enormous odds on the institutes. Text books and technical terminology in regional languages are rare, and students will also need reference works. How can so much be translated — if possible at all — in so short a time? Where are teachers trained in teaching engineering in the regional languages to come from? The government has defined ‘mother tongue’ as the chief language of the state in which an IIT or NIT is situated. Surely one language for all is less discriminatory than that? The institutes would have to add 50 seats for regional language-medium students, although the increase in capacity is being ordered with no hint of fund sources. Practical aspects apart, the announcement indicates the government’s indifference to the notion of academic freedom. The opinion of teachers or of the institutes’ policymaking bodies was not sought. It may be a coincidence that regional language teaching in the highest technological spheres has long been a goal of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. In spite of some directors agreeing that this is possible, even if in the long run, most professors have expressed alarm at not just the loss of brand value of their institutions, but also the limiting of the students’ future careers. What is global would perforce become local for 50 in each BTech class. This is not to deny the importance of lessons in the mother tongue. But that has its context, and immeasurable foundational value for the development of the intellect. Perhaps the education ministry in its enthusiasm forgot that its models in introducing the mother tongue in engineering, Germany and China, have junked the experiment and returned to teaching in English. Should the moral be phrased in the mother tongue?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-108
03-12-2020||Opinion||Hear them: Farmer protests||Dialogue and democracy should, under ideal circumstances, be conjoined. But democracy works in mysterious ways in New India. The Centre is holding talks with farmers and their representative bodies over their reservations against contentious legislations passed in the name of agricultural reform: the second round is expected to take place today. But the deliberations between the farmers and the government were not assured: the right had to be earned by a set of courageous men and women after confronting a government resistant to talks. Every trick in the authoritarian rule book had been employed by an elected government to prevent the farmers from getting themselves heard. Several obstacles — literal and figurative — had been placed on their path: the constituency that feeds the nation had to get past lathis, water cannons and boulders on their way to get to their destination. Simultaneously, a vicious campaign was launched by the right-wing ecosystem — segments of the media are embedded in it — to discredit the movement and malign the farmers. The protesters were branded as sympathizers of Khalistan; shrill, accusatory voices suggested that the protest was being ‘sponsored’ by the Congress, which is in power in Punjab; Bharatiya Janata Party leaders also tried — in vain — to argue that the protests were limited to Punjab but the presence of cultivators from Haryana and Madhya Pradesh — the BJP is in power in both states — has given the lie to this claim. The signals from the upper echelons were equally unsympathetic: the prime minister, instead of agreeing to a meeting immediately, kept insisting that the farmers were being misled. The deep crisis in India’s agrarian sector goes beyond the features of the new farm bills. It is the result of systematic crippling of farmers’ interests and agricultural productivity by successive governments. The BJP is not the only party complicit in this institutional apathy. But what the BJP seems to be trying — and succeeding to a large extent — is to demonize protests and dissent. Any narrative that is critical of or effectively counters official policy, be it on a controversial citizenship law, communal riots, demonetization and, now, agrarian distress, is distorted and dismissed. Democracy has been rightly imagined as a din of multiple voices. This is especially true in the context of a diverse polity such as India. Unfortunately, one voice, that of the government, is being allowed to dominate all others in the country today. This does not augur well for the future of democratic India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-108
03-12-2020||Opinion||Fight against the virus of unreason||“If you can keep your head when all about you/ Are losing theirs...” — Rudyard Kipling Increasingly, I have been feeling the pressing need to bring back an old subject in our curriculum. The subject is logic. In the light of the kind of behaviour being generally demonstrated by people in society, not least by political leaders, it is imperative that students should learn not to emulate them. They need to learn that emotions alone cannot rule behaviour and certainly not decisions. Students must be reminded what adults are forgetting: that it is the ability to reason that largely distinguishes man from beast. While studying logic, students used to learn about fallacies in reasoning. I remember that one of the first textbook examples was the famous Aristotelian syllogism, “All men are mortal; Socrates is a man; therefore, Socrates is mortal”. This was followed by “All birds can fly; XYZ is a bird; therefore, XYZ can fly”, which in turn generated animated discussions. An airplane could fly but it wasn’t a bird; an airplane can’t fly on its own unlike a bird. But some birds can’t fly — so the basic premise is incorrect, and so on. This kind of mental exercise was good for students and they soon learned not to jump to conclusions. Arguments are so riddled with fallacies that we often fail to recognize them. Someone has suggested that there should be a fallacy-checker in our computer software just as there is a spell-checker and a grammar-checker. Of course, it is another matter when people knowingly use false data and statistics while trying to persuade others to follow their line of thinking. Many election campaigners are guilty of this but I never thought that I would live to witness a president of a country being abruptly cut off by three television channels because he was spouting blatant lies. Recently, I learnt the difference between a lie and a falsehood and between truthfulness and truthiness (something that only seems to be true). All this made me painfully aware that we live in a post-truth world which urgently begs that we teach our students to seek evidence, look out for fallacies and identify fake news. A common practice in present times is appealing to emotion rather than facts or reason to make a point. The manipulation of emotions is dangerous because it fuels hatred, anger, envy and other negative passions. Ironically, intense religious and patriotic feelings and obsessive love for a leader or icon can also be damaging and has often led to mindless violence. It is the absence of clear reasoning and the igniting of emotions (in addition to ‘conditioning’) that reinforce prejudice, discrimination and superstition. Today, we despair over a polarized world which sees every issue in black and white. If we wish to change this state of affairs, we must ensure that our young develop the ability to process opposing views in their minds. This ability has been described as the hallmark of adulthood. Sweeping generalizations, the red herring strategy and the bandwagon fallacy are other examples of faulty reasoning. We all know how skilled speakers can deftly introduce a red herring in the middle of a discussion. The diversion is actually a ploy to distract the listener from unpleasant features of the topic and prevent uncomfortable questions from the audience. I often hear students (and adults too) starting a sentence with “everybody”. “Everybody is saying that our exams are being postponed.” On asking for the identity of “everybody”, the response that one gets is usually hilarious. “Everybody is supporting something and therefore it is right” represents the bandwagon fallacy. Then there is the rampant use of harmful stereotypes to prove a point. Often, unproven statements such as “X institution is the best in the country” are made with great conviction. Young people must learn to distinguish between opinion and fact. Appealing to tradition as justification for a particular line of thought or action is a fallacy. “We have always done it like this” does not prove its superiority to other untried ways. Also, it is important to be conscious of our own biases as they often lead us to unwittingly select only the examples or data that support our beliefs and ignore others that do not. A singularly uncivilized way of arguing is by making personal attacks. In school debating clubs, personal attacks can get debaters disqualified. Yet our students witness political leaders resorting to name-calling, making fun of their opponents’ physical characteristics or talking disparagingly about their personal lives to influence the audience against their rivals. Then there is the tu quoque or ‘you too’ tactic. Public debates these days soon turn into whataboutery — as if someone else’s misdeeds automatically erase your own. Personal attack as a strategy in argument is uncouth and fatuous, but appeal to force is the most primitive and dangerous. The veiled and sometimes open threat of harmful consequences if one does not follow a particular way of thinking or acting has become a common way to bring people into line. Sometimes, a harried mother, tired of explaining rules to an exasperating child, will end an argument by saying, “You will obey me because I am your mother, period”. Incidentally, most children of authoritarian parents know that dictators do not need to reason. A fallacy in reasoning that everyone is familiar with is the non sequitur. It is a conclusion that does not follow logically from previous statements. For example, the other day someone remarked that she still missed the old 1,000-rupee note. The spontaneous, ridiculous response was, “Ah, so you are a Nehrubhakt!” I rest my case: students must learn to protect themselves from the virus of unreason.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-108
03-12-2020||Opinion||Out of step||Question: What may be kissed once every while, caressed and sworn by, often be held and photographed as if a trophy, and left to the side only to be arrived at occasionally and ritually? You may wish to ponder, you may well arrive at multiple correct answers. Meantime, we’ve made progress, and it should get our attention. We have moved from the solitary peacock-peppered majesty of perfumed palace gardens to locations closer to people, so close they appear to be within waving distance. The extravagant Dev Deepavali enactment in Varanasi, the mostly woe-begotten constituency of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has seduced many descriptions. Sober, or modulated to the timbre of a marauder pandemic and its devastations, cannot be one of them. Nor was it remotely resonant of rites or traditions associated with worship along the holy banks of Kashi. If anything, it had the markings of a belligerent violation of the native elegance of Dev Deepavali, grace and splendour bombarded to bits by dazzle and decibel purchased from merchandisers of kitsch. To call it a son-et-lumière would be to besmirch that description. It was more a nouveau night-clubber’s idea of a jaunt on the river. But the prime minister’s outlandish ostentation on the Ganga should be deemed only part of the takeaway from the evening, a lesser and insignificant part of it. Style can be subjective; turning out at a summit event in bespoke personalized pinstripes may seem crass to some, classy to others. The message being sent out with in-your-face unabashedness of posture was where the vulgarity really lay. Covid has claimed close to a hundred and fifty thousand lives. Multiple millions lie afflicted, displaced, deprived of livelihoods, struggling without means to see through the next day. The economy is in alarming contraction. Hardship is mounting and nobody is in doubt that the worst is yet to come. The intimations of gloomier times are widespread and understood enough for even the most blatant and inveterate drum beaters of the regime to stir anywhere near the mention of achchhe din; the promise must seem to them like a ghost in need of exorcising. That the Chinese army waged in and now squats over vast territories we considered our own is no longer in need of attestation or acknowledgement; it is an adverse truth that Modi hasn’t displayed the will or strategy to change. That the farmlands that fill our granaries are aflame over the government’s unsolicited interventions is not some conspiracy cooked up in the back rooms of the Opposition. Chance would be a fine thing if the Opposition was even able. Farmers, possessed of collective native wisdoms accumulated over generations, have smelt a rat in the package being handed out; they fear corporate smash-and-grab. They’ve left home and hearth and have laid siege to Delhi to press for a reversal. They are bivouacked under open skies in the northern winter, being lavished by the government’s propagandists as a league of conspirers. And what must one call our pradhan sevak tapping feet and fingers to psychedelic strobe beats on a riverfront at such a time? People may some day discover the words and the sentiments to express how it feels to see the prime minister of a nation marooned in darkening deficits out on a garish picnic. It’s an effrontery whose coarseness of quality will take time to make itself felt where it hurts. Sublime disregard should work for lack of a fuller description. He couldn’t care. But do we care? Or shouldn’t we? We must ask of ourselves questions far more fundamental than the questions we ask of those we elect. Nations, after all, are not creatures of government in a democracy; governments are creatures of nations, they make and unmake governments and, therefore, the responsibility of what a nation becomes must lie with those who populate it. Democracies are not electoral fetes called at designated intervals as handing-over rites; democracies are a consequence of elections and must remain animated between one election and another. Democracies must transcend what happens in elections and the governments that get formed as a consequence. Else, democracies will sooner be dead. Governments don’t keep democracies alive, nations and people do. We are at a stage in our journey where we must wonder if we even wish to continue as a democracy. The cacophonic rejoicing of bigotry tells us otherwise; indifference to, or silent acceptance of, the methodical demolition of our chosen essentials only serves as endorsement of the undoing of what we set out to be. Do we care that the magical tapestry of our nation is being ripped at the seams? It wouldn’t be quite enough to label Narendra Modi a power-intoxicated authoritarian usurping powers, dismantling institutions, and cynically manoeuvring every lever at his command to disable or demolish what comes in his way. He represents a government, we represent the nation that put him there. It is critical to understand the difference. But do we care? Do we care how shoddily we have been treated through this calamitous crisis? Shuttered by a firman on a four-hour lockdown notice, commanded to clap and dance and light up, left to our devices and harassed and whipped as we tried to cope in ways we could? Do we care about all this while we have been prescribed counterfeit cocktails disguised as magic potions by profiteer thugs? Do we care that our fellow citizens have been stripped of their rights, shoved into prison and allowed little recourse? Do we care that the writ of habeas corpus has become what may be called two dead letters? Do we care that our justice system has forgotten how to dispense it? Or dispenses it with audacious partisanship? Do we even care, or know, what it means when the eminences of the highest court of the land blithely pronounce they are trying to curtail the use of Article 32, the arch-protector of the fundamental guarantees we gave ourselves? Do we care what atrocity, insult and humiliation we continue to heap on the people of Kashmir whom we call our own, if only because they come under the sweep of our laws and forces? Does it strike us that some among us have lynched and killed with abandon and been celebrated for the act of murder? Do we understand the bleak contours of the dystopia we have wilfully arrived in? Where love can been deemed an act of war, dissent anti-national, rape a justifiable resort whose evidence is required to be torched under official fiat, and biryani a weapon of mass destruction? Do we understand the meaning of one of our most powerful and popular corporate houses not being able to sustain an advertisement that celebrates inter-faith harmony? Do we even grasp the connotations of our kaleidoscopic demography? It can fall into beauteous patterns, it can also be brought to shatter and cut. It seldom cuts one way; history is proof, and the future a foretelling. And, by the way, one of the things that answers to the question posed at the top is the Constitution of India; the clues that give the answers away can be read as the paces of getting discarded. Be well warned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-108
