04-12-2020||Opinion||Face value: New surveillance||A report by the Internet Freedom Foundation estimates that 32 facial recognition technology systems are getting installed in India under Project Panoptic. This is worrying in a country where, in spite of privacy being declared a fundamental right by the Supreme Court, the Union home minister declared in Parliament that the Delhi police had tapped into driving licences and voter identity databases to apprehend 1,900 ‘rioters’ from the Delhi riots. On paper, the Automated Facial Recognition System proposed by the home ministry is supposed to be used for “criminal identification, verification and its dissemination among various police organisations”. In reality, for the AFRS to be effective, biometric facial data from all individuals, not only the targets of surveillance or those suspected of criminal activity, need to be collated. Worryingly, accuracy rates of facial recognition algorithms are particularly low in the case of minorities, women and children, as demonstrated in multiple studies across the world. Use of such technology in a system where vulnerable groups are over-represented — more than half of all convicts and undertrials in Indian prisons are Muslims, Dalits or adivasis — risks replicating human biases. What is worse, the use of such surveillance is being contemplated without the checks and balances offered by a comprehensive data protection law. Strikingly, the proposed personal data protection bill — it is yet to be passed by Parliament — gives significant leverage to State agencies. While the bill envisages alerts for users when an attempt has been made to access data from, say, a facial recognition database, the government has been kept out of the purview of this provision. Even if the bill is amended to safeguard citizens against such loopholes, implementation may not be guaranteed. The Justice Srikrishna panel, which was constituted to look into data privacy, had pointed out that in spite of legal checks against phone-tapping, a review committee has to go through as many as 15,000-18,000 interception orders every meeting. Significantly, such privacy concerns are being aired in other parts of the world as well. The European Commission is considering imposing a five-year moratorium on the use of facial recognition technologies in the European Union; in the United States of America, municipalities have passed, or are considering passing, similar prohibitions. In India, where public awareness about digital depredation is minimal, such a system can increase privacy violations and bring about the genesis of a pliant society. Deliberations on facial recognition tools must strike a balance among security concerns and privacy, liberty, and freedom.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-107
04-12-2020||Opinion||Stick to it: Policy announcements||The courts may lay bare politicians’ attitude to power. In the context of a recent case, the Supreme Court ruled that the announcement of policy decisions make public authorities accountable; the decisions cannot evaporate as soon as the political purpose behind the announcement is served. In this critique of quick-fix populism, of which every political party in India is guilty, the court reportedly remarked that the State must get rid of the colonial mindset that it is a sovereign, handing out doles to the people at will. Little else can express the attitude of Indian politicians who, after being elected, begin to treat their electors like subjects. This especially characterizes the conduct of the ruling dispensation in Delhi. It dresses up all aspects of governance — policies, federal transactions, inherited schemes, infrastructure projects — as gifts from the prime minister. But most important in the Supreme Court ruling was its emphasis on policy decisions being solemn promises to the people. That is, not fulfilling them would amount to fraud or deceit; depriving people of their legitimate expectation would violate Article 14 of the Constitution. The right to equality enshrined in this provision is a guarantee of protection against arbitrary State action. Colonial-style whimsicality and hollow promises made for short-term political gain were thus sharply condemned by the court. As important was the Supreme Court’s invocation of the trust of the people in the State — an aspect of democracy that seems all but completely lost. The Indian citizens’ cynicism with regard to politicians is a sickness that is eroding the base of the democratic edifice. The State should act in a transparent manner in order to retain the people’s faith. When public authorities cannot keep a promise made to the people, they must cite reasons for the failure — reasons that must be proportional to the requirements of public interest. Since the context of the court’s remarks was a promise made by a state government to industries, the court said that the commercial sector needed to trust that its expectation from public authorities would be fulfilled for certainty and consistency in their planning. This ruling is of great significance at a time when populist promises have become accepted political strategy and the accountability of politicians in power threatens to become an obsolete notion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-108
04-12-2020||Opinion||New rules for parents in China||Not all Chinese mothers choose to be “tiger moms”. Some are pushed into becoming so. Already struggling with the race to transform their only children into multi-talented wonders, new forms of pressure now act on Chinese parents. The latest is being asked by teachers to grade their children’s homework. The practice came into public focus when the outburst of one father went viral on social media. “What can you do now that I have quit the parent-teacher WeChat group!” he asks in the video. “What’s your value since I’m the one who teaches my child and grades his homework?” With WeChat (the Chinese equivalent of WhatsApp) groups of parents and teachers having become the norm, the father’s anger struck a chord with parents. A mother grumbled that the constant messages from parents on her WeChat group disturbed her at work, yet she couldn’t afford to switch off notifications for fear that the teacher may have sent an important message. Another father, however, said the opposite: he simply blocked the group’s notifications and glanced through them only when he went to pick up his son from school. “As parents we have enough else to stress about,” he said. However, not everyone is so self-assured. Parents at a school meet were embarrassed to see a father burst into tears when a teacher asked him why he had not been replying to messages on the WeChat group, and questioned his interest in his child. In front of everyone, he had to explain that with his wife having died a few years ago, he had to work twice as hard to support his parents and his son, and didn’t have the time to go through the messages on the WeChat group. What started off as a direct means of communication between parents and teachers on topics of importance to students turned into a forum where parents curry favour and teachers make impossible demands. Promises by eager parents of helping their children clean the school and compliments to teachers have left parents who disapprove of or have no time for all this anxious. Then there’s the ubiquitous practice of every member wishing “Happy birthday” to  students. The parent of the birthday child is expected to buy gifts for her classmates; this when children are forbidden from receiving birthday gifts in school. The demand that parents grade and sign off on their children’s homework has proved to be the last straw. Teachers say this monitors the parents’ involvement in the child’s progress, without acknowledging that it helps them shirk their duties. They argue that they are overworked; but so are parents. Only those families where the mother can afford to stay home can do justice to this demand. One parent grumbled that she was up till 3 am grading her child’s homework. Things have come to such a pass that now rules have been framed by city and provincial education bodies on what can be posted on such WeChat groups. Demands to grade homework are forbidden. Also forbidden is the damaging practice of posting students’ grades on the group and criticism of individual students. Violating these rules would mean an end to promotions for teachers and even a disqualification of principals who allow this. Teachers, on their part, hope that this puts an end to the exasperating practice of parents messaging them at all times of the day. In India, where such groups have just started, the Chinese experience may come handy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-108
04-12-2020||Opinion||The grapes of wrath||The farmers’ protest near New Delhi is a major political event challenging the Narendra Modi government. The participation is widespread and it is growing by the day. That farmers have been unhappy with their economic condition was evident from the number of marches to Delhi during the past two years. This time the protest is about three bills passed in Parliament in September 2020. Before coming to the reasons why the farmers are protesting, it is important to mention two facts surrounding these bills and the ensuing protests that form the political backdrop. The first is that these bills were virtually bulldozed in the Rajya Sabha, passed by voice vote despite a demand for a division. This is against the rules. Those members who protested were suspended. The second is the way in which the government reacted to the farmers’ march to Delhi. The farmers were met with lathis, tear gas and water cannons; they were dubbed ‘anti-nationals’, ‘Khalistanis’, agents of Opposition parties and middlemen who were not ‘real’ farmers. A large part of the media either did not highlight the event, or added even more demeaning and false epithets to those articulated by the ministers of the Central government and the leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Both these incidents represent the most recent instances of the Centre riding roughshod over democratic institutions and practices. But unlike what was done with the Rajya Sabha members, ‘suspending’ protesting farmers is not an option that the government has. The farmers’ anxieties emerge from the three bills that were passed: the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. Certain provisions made in these legislations have led the farmers to believe that their incomes will come under greater uncertainty and, ultimately, get reduced. What are the factors that the farmers are basing their perceptions on? Since 1965, the Agricultural Produce Market Committee Act enabled the setting up of regulated mandis or markets that allowed farmers to sell their produce to private agents and traders for a mandi tax or fee. If there was any residual produce left unsold, the government bought it at a pre-announced minimum support price. The regulated mandis were of particular importance in the Green Revolution belt of Haryana, Punjab and western Uttar Pradesh. Not that the system was faultless. The agents became powerful and formed cartels and even harassed farmers. Farmers were always allowed to sell outside the mandis, but they would not be entitled to the MSP if they ended up with unsold stocks that they could not store. The mandis were a kind of insurance for the farmers. Only a small fraction of farmers were able to avail of the MSP: somewhere around 6 per cent. The remaining 94 per cent still depend entirely on markets. The first law envisions the creation of ‘one nation, one market’ for agricultural trade. To induce this transition, the legislation has given a tax holiday for trade outside the mandi, while the mandi tax remains. This, it is hoped, will gradually shift all trade outside the mandis and the mandis would become redundant. E-trading will become more common and give access to market data from all over India. An important implication of all this is that the MSP will become a thing of the past. The farmers believe that with the MSP gone, large traders and agri-businesses will dominate the open market and drive down prices for the farmers. These large players would be much more powerful and have deeper pockets compared to the agents of the APMCs. There will be no benefit for the farmer. The National Democratic Alliance government had promised to make the MSP more efficient, computed on considerations suggested by the Swaminathan Committee report published over 10 years ago. In fact, the MSP was a part of the NDA’s election manifesto. This sudden turnaround is now upsetting the farmers. The government is claiming that MSP will stay, but it is refusing to put the pledge down in writing. Indeed, if anything is the need of the hour in a crisis-ridden agriculture, it is a universal MSP covering all farmers. This eclipse of the APMCs also takes away a source of revenue for state governments without their consent, representing an attack on the federal structure of the republic. The second legislation allows contracts that farmers may enter into with agents, traders, businesses and multinational firms for producing an agreed crop at a pre-agreed price. The government expects that the farmers will have access to better technology and assured prices, leading to higher profitability and lower uncertainty. The language of the Act, however, allows for written as well as oral contracts. Section 19 of this Act puts any dispute arising from the bilateral contract out of the jurisdiction of civil courts. Now consider small farmers facing big buyers with oral contracts that cannot be enforced in a civil court. The prices, in such a situation, can surely be manipulated post-harvest. Also, if the inputs are given to the farmer and the crop chosen by the buyer, the cropping pattern will change towards commercial crops or towards export crops required only by multinationals. The seeds may be GMOs with increased vulnerability for crop failure like in the case of cotton. If that occurs, who pays the farmer? Will a buyer compensate the farmer if there is a crop failure? Or will the other creditors from whom the farmer might have bought his inputs spare him the debt? Indeed, this has been tried in advanced economies too, like France, the United States of America and the United Kingdom. The model has failed, and has been the reason behind a number of suicides by farmers. The same holds true for India. What remains a greater worry for the farmers is that in the game of competition amongst buyers, just a handful of giants will win. The monopolization of trade cannot be ruled out with a couple of big houses in India and maybe three or four multinationals cornering the overwhelming share of agricultural trade. At this point, one might raise a question: what prevented big business from cornering markets until now? The answer lies in the amendment to the Essential Commodities Act, which was the third bill passed in September. This amendment deletes cereals, oilseeds, pulses, potatoes and onions from the list of essential commodities, except in the time of war. In rendering the commodities inessential at the stroke of a pen, it makes their hoarding completely legal. Who benefits, once again? Big traders can now easily influence consumer prices keeping them as high as possible and manipulating farm gate prices by delaying buying till the farmers become desperate to sell at any price. The farmers were not covered under the Essential Commodities Act. They were allowed to keep as much stock as they wanted to of their own produce. However, the ability to do so is extremely limited for almost all farmers in India because of the lack of infrastructure. India certainly needs more incomes for its farmers. As per the last data available for farm incomes in India, according to the NSSO report of 2013, the average monthly income of an entire farm household with five individuals in the family from all sources was a mere Rs 6,426. Bringing the model of corporate control over agriculture is not going to be a solution. It will only aggravate the problems of uncertainty and debt, land use patterns and soil fertility, and availability of freshwater. In the US, where this model has been tried for decades, data suggest that since 1960 there has been a steady decline in farm incomes. The survival of farmers depends heavily on government subsidies. In India, the situation is much more forbidding. Unless the government sits down to consider the demands of the farmers, the anger will only continue to escalate while the ‘grapes of wrath get heavy’. The author is former professor of Economics, IIM Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-108
