05-12-2020||Opinion||Historical fiction: Thanksgiving and racial injustice||Thanksgiving was celebrated on November 26 this year. A tradition involving family gatherings was marked this year by six feet of distance and zoom calls with grandma. Historically, the day is a celebration of the English settlers getting together with the Native Americans and establishing the Plymouth colony — now Plymouth, Massachusetts — in 1621, culminating in a feast. The truth behind the history is much more dire and, for many, Thanksgiving is a symbol of oppression and racial injustice. An existing viewpoint is that the first Thanksgiving feast was marked by the massacre of a local Native tribe. The day is constantly espoused in history books as one where settlers and natives lived and worked together in harmony but many historic accounts prove that the truth is far from it. The holiday wasn’t made official until 1863, when President Abraham Lincoln declared it so as a kind of thank you for the Civil War victories in Vicksburg, Mississippi and Gettysburg, Pennsylvania. Today, Thanksgiving is celebrated for its historical context, but more as a day to get together with family and get to eat a lot of food. Traditionally, there is always an NFL game on this day as well. Moreover, Thanksgiving is always on a Thursday and Black Friday follows right after. No matter how it is celebrated, it is important to see the day from the perspective of the Native American community as well. Every Thanksgiving since 1970, the United American Indians of New England gather in Plymouth to mark a National Day of Mourning. A statement on the organization’s website said, “Participants in National Day of Mourning honor Native ancestors and the struggles of Native peoples to survive today. It is a day of remembrance and spiritual connection as well as a protest of the racism and oppression which Native Americans continue to experience.” Go digital This year, Covid-19 has led to a drastic reduction in brick-and-mortar retail sales and a giant uptick in online shopping. Now with Black Friday and holidays just around the corner, e-commerce is having its moment. “This Thanksgiving period, shoppers are interested in two things — getting a good deal on items and feeling safe — and this is driving significant changes in how they approach the season,” according to a spokesperson from Deloitte. This year, some giant stores such as Target and Home Depot had record sales numbers in person on essential items such as toilet paper, food and home tools. While revenue fell for department stores like Macy’s and Nordstrom, JCPenney filed for bankruptcy. Macy’s offered e-commerce shopping to their customers but it was not enough to make up for the lost revenue. But athletic brands such as Peloton and Lululemon have actually benefited from the pandemic as people turn to at-home workouts. Analysts are recommending all stores to rethink their digital strategy because many consumers who are forced to conduct online shopping may well choose to stick by it after the pandemic. Both Walmart and Target said they are anticipating increased need for people to fulfil online orders and to ready items for kerbside and in-store pickup this holiday season. Shrunk splendour Every year the Macy’s Thanksgiving parade is a much anticipated day marked by extravagant floats, parades and celebrity appearances. It is the largest parade in the world and has been held since 1924 with masses of crowds gathering on the sidelines. This year was much different — the parade went virtual, to be viewed on TV only. As a result of being televised, it had a 75 per cent reduction in the number of participants. Those who were present had to follow protocols of social distancing and wear masks. Instead of high school marching bands travelling in from across the country, the parade invited a handful of local marching bands and performers from other parades that have been challenged to adapt owing to the pandemic. This year the activity and performances were confined to Herald Square in Midtown Manhattan instead of the usual 2.5 mile parade walk. The parade’s large character balloons, typically anchored by 80 to 100 trained handlers and a vehicle, were anchored by five specially-rigged vehicles to cut down on human presence. Jump the queue New York is the city that is truly always adapting. Why should a pandemic be any different? New Yorkers are used to waiting in long lines whether for broadway tickets, Saturday Night Live, the latest dessert craze and now Covid testing. Lengthy lines just to get a test done exist in every city and New Yorkers have found a way to avoid it — by hiring someone to wait for them. This can be achieved through the popular TaskRabbit app, usually used to hire freelance help for handyman services such as moving or building furniture. However, a TikTok video went viral detailing how the app is being used for this. On the app you can search for ‘wait in line’ and your nearest CityMD urgent care location, and select a nearby tasker. You leave instructions to have the worker call once they’re at the front of the line, and then the patient switches spots with them. The video has now been deleted, but those who saw it remarked on the ethical aspect of having someone (albeit by paying them some $20) wait in line for you at the risk of exposure to Covid-19. Some others argue that during this pandemic where unemployment is on the rise, it is giving people something to do with a chance to make some money. Footnote With millions of Americans out of jobs owing to Covid-19, money and spending is tight for a lot of people. An unfortunate victim of this are charities struggling to obtain donations under these circumstances. December is always the biggest month for donating, and Giving Tuesday, an annual day for charitable giving on the first Tuesday after Thanksgiving, essentially kicks off the season each year. Charities are also having trouble finding volunteers because of Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-107
05-12-2020||Opinion||Sleeping beauty: Mandatory siesta for Goans||Goa and Bengal are separated, as the crow flies, by a distance of over two thousand kilometres. But metaphorical bridges have been known for their ability to bridge great distances. What unites Goa and Bengal, in a manner of speaking, is — no, not football but — their love for the afternoon nap. What the bhaat-ghum is to the average Bengali, the beloved siesta is for the aam Goan. Hearteningly, pleasure has now turned political. Goa goes to the hustings in two years’ time, and the leader of the Goa Forward Party, Vijai Sardesai — he is a chief ministerial aspirant — has pledged to make the siesta mandatory within stipulated hours every day. Naysayers have dismissed Mr Sardesai poll pledge as a not-so-subtle attempt to pander to identity politics: Goan culture, after all, takes its susegad — an ethical principle that shuns a frenetic life for a slower, quieter way of living — quite seriously. But then there is nothing parochial about the susegad that has the siesta embossed in its heart. In fact, evidence suggests that a life located between the laid-back and the indolent, one that emphasizes the importance of leisure, is a truly global phenomenon. The short, post-lunch nap spans a geographical and cultural arc that includes the Mediterranean, parts of Europe, and Asia. Afternoons bring Italians the promise of the riposo; busy-as-bees Britons and Americans replenish their energies with the help of the power nap; Indian yoga, too, acknowledges the virtues of vamkukshi: lying on the left side to aid digestion after a nap. The other lie that Mr Sardesai has nailed — inadvertently — concerns modernity’s sneer at leisure. The industrial revolution had led to an enduring rupture between leisure and productivity. Evaluation of societies increasingly became centred on the quantum of labour and hours of work, leading to a concomitant, cultural demonization of activities — sleep was among them — associated with leisure and recreation. This resulted in the perpetuation of the myth of leisure being unproductive even though there are anecdotes to suggest that some of humanity’s greatest triumphs were registered by geniuses in a state of repose. Archimedes apparently had his ‘Eureka’ moment in a bath; gravity might have eluded mankind if Isaac Newton had not been idling under an apple tree. Post-modernity’s rediscovery of siesta must be welcomed. Already, several nations have discovered that quality of work is inversely proportional to working hours. Thus France and the Netherlands have been at work, reducing the average time employees spend at their jobs. The importance of the pursuit of sleep and rest cannot be underestimated at a time when a global pandemic has led to the collapse of the walls between work and home, bringing with it severe physiological and psychological challenges. There is a strong case for India, where the labour ministry proposed to raise daily work hours to 12 from 8, to be lulled into brief, therapeutic spells of siesta. India’s next Eureka moment could well come from Goa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-107
05-12-2020||Opinion||New hope: UK approves Pfizer vaccine||Sir — At a time when the whole world is traumatized by the pandemic — social isolation, continued lockdown and death of nearly 1.5 million people are just some of the things that are on people’s minds — humanity has perhaps got the best piece of news in almost a year: the United Kingdom has become the first country to approve a fully-tested Covid-19 vaccine (“In a world first, UK approves Pfizer vaccine”, Dec 3). The vaccine developed jointly by pharmaceutical company, Pfizer, based in the United States of America and the German firm, BioNTech, took only 10 months to go from concept to reality, although the time taken to develop something like it usually spans 10 years — even vaccines for measles and polio took a very long time. But the threat that Covid-19 posed to mankind must have spurred researchers on — they were engaged in a frantic race against time, routinely working round the clock and weekends. The continued loss of lives and livelihoods must also have pushed them harder. The speed of research also highlights the fact that governments and other stakeholders have indeed accorded the highest priority to fighting the coronavirus. Significantly, unlike China and Russia which authorized the use of some vaccines without waiting for the results of phase-3 trials, the Pfizer-BioNTech project has reportedly not skipped any necessary step and its findings were opened to independent verification. Incidentally, while many countries booked millions of doses of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, India continues to look at the Oxford-AstraZeneca shots along with some other indigenous candidates as its choice against the pandemic. The silver lining is that the phase-3 trial of India-made Covaxin has already been launched in the country with authorities getting encouraging responses. Nonetheless, vaccine roll-outs will usher in a new set of challenges. Any unexpected medical problems during drug administration should be accepted as an unavoidable part of vaccine science. It would be important to identify the source of the adverse result objectively and address the problem. This should be done in order to safeguard the faith of citizens in clinical trials as well as to encourage them to continue participation in the process. On all these complex issues, governments, regulators and vaccine makers must recognize the significance of effective communication with the people. In India, all levels of authorities must work together professionally to ensure even distribution of the vaccine. Khokan Das,Calcutta Sir — It is good news that Britain has become the first country in the West to have endorsed a Covid-19 vaccine, developed by Pfizer-BioNTech. The vaccine has been reported to have shown 95 per cent efficacy in preventing Covid-19. India, however, must wait until one of its indigenous trials shows encouraging results or the Oxford-AstraZeneca group comes up with a proper vaccine. Meanwhile, the news that the United Kingdom has approved the use of the Pfizer vaccine has caught the attention of many privileged Indians. There are reports that travel agents have already begun receiving enquiries about the conditions for travelling to the UK in the hope of getting shots of the Pfizer vaccine. While this is hilarious on the one hand, on the other, it bares the grim reality that only the affluent sections of society have the privilege of even making such plans. Healthcare should be equally accessible to all. The Indian government should keep this mind whenever a vaccine is available here. Ayesha Ganguly,New Delhi Name game Sir — The decision of the Maharashtra government to rename residential areas in the state that have caste-based names must be welcomed. This move could go a long way in uprooting entrenched prejudices against communities that do not belong to the so-called upper classes. All governments seem to have a penchant for the ‘name game’ — renaming places without any other aim in mind but garnering the votes of the majority community. Maharashtra’s idea — it could help promote social harmony — should serve as a model for other states too. Sangeeta Pal,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-107
05-12-2020||Opinion||Down Under thunder||The first book I read from cover to cover was written by an Australian. His name was Keith Miller, and he was the greatest all-round cricketer his country has produced. After he retired from the game in 1956, Miller published a sporting autobiography, called Cricket Crossfire, which was reprinted by an Indian publisher who managed to send some copies to the town in the Himalayan foothills where I grew up. A full decade after Miller had quit playing cricket, what may have been the last copy of his book circulating in India was bought by my father in a store in Dehradun’s Rajpur Road and handed over to me. When I read Cricket Crossfire as a boy, two things struck me: first, Miller’s ambivalent feelings about his captain, Don Bradman, and, second, the affection that Miller displayed towards India and Indians. The author acknowledged that Bradman was the greatest cricketer of his age, yet he felt that as a person, Bradman was single-minded and even selfish. The Indians he played against, however, Miller warmed to both as sportsmen and as human beings. I seem to remember, from a distance of more than half a century, that Miller’s book contained brief but fond portraits of Mushtaq Ali, C.S. Nayudu, Vinoo Mankad and Vijay Merchant. I must have read Cricket Crossfire in 1967 or 1968. It was around the same time that I began reading Jack Fingleton’s articles in the now defunct Sport & Pastime magazine, published out of what was then called Madras by what is still Kasturi & Sons. Fingleton had played with (and under) Bradman a decade before Miller did; and, as I was to discover later through a reading of his books, he too held Bradman to be both the greatest cricketer of his time and a not particularly likeable character. Around the time I first read Miller and Fingleton, I also first heard Australian voices coming into my house. In the late 1960s, there were no televisions in Indian homes, so cricket-mad lads like myself had to follow the game in print and on the radio. I suppose I might have heard snatches of the 1967-68 Indian tour of Australia (when we lost four-nil), although I have much clearer memories of the following winter when the West Indies toured Down Under. I was supporting the visitors who were led by a cricketer even greater than the Don, Garfield Sobers. So I was disappointed by their three-one loss to the hosts in the Tests, although this was tempered by the always engaging commentary on ABC, as represented by the effervescent Alan McGilvray and the wise and reflective Lindsay Hassett. Winters in Dehradun were freezing cold, and it took an effort of the will to get up at five am of a morning in December or January, to huddle next to our Philips set, the volume turned low so as not to wake up the rest of the household, the teeth chattering and the feet shaking, partly due to the chill but mostly due to the excitement of what was being described to me by McGilvray and Hassett and their colleagues. All through the 1970s, my winters were joyously filled with tours of Australia by England, the West Indies, Pakistan and India, heard live as the matches were played, and read about with leisure in the next day’s newspaper and in the sports magazines that came into our house (although Sport & Pastime died in the late Sixties, Sportsweek of Bombay had arrived to fill its place). As I grew older and began to buy books myself, I also read the works of the aforementioned Jack Fingleton and of Ray Robinson, who, while he had not played the game at the same level as Miller or Fingleton, had a greater sense of style. The favourite Australians of my boyhood and youth were cricket writers and cricket commentators. I was already into my twenties when I saw Australian cricketers for the first time in the flesh, in a Test match played in Bangalore in 1979. However, this was a side depleted by the cheque-book by Kerry Packer. The 1980s passed without my seeing Australians play Test cricket, which was probably just as well, for although a compromise with Packer had been forged, even a full-strength team was not particularly competitive in that decade. Fortunately, in the 1990s and the 2000s top-class Australian sides did play several Tests in the city I now called home, Bangalore, and for these contests I was always present at the ground, soaking in the batsmanship of Ponting and the Waugh brothers, the bowling of McGrath and Warne, and the wicket-keeping of Healy and Gilchrist. Drawing on a lifetime of reading about, listening to, and watching cricketers from that country, I present for debate an all-time Australian Test eleven. This, in batting order, reads: 1. Victor Trumper 2. Arthur Morris 3. Don Bradman 4. Steve Smith 5. Allan Border 6. Keith Miller 7. Adam Gilchrist 8. Shane Warne 9. Dennis Lillee 10. Bill O’Reilly 11. Glenn McGrath. I suspect the most controversial choices would be of the openers. What is known as ‘recency bias’ might lead many cricket fans to choose Mark Taylor and Matthew Hayden, whose prolific run-scoring has been captured for posterity by television and can be viewed again and again on YouTube. However, Trumper occupies a special place in Australian cricketing memory and folklore, as witness the writings on him of (among others) Jack Fingleton and Gideon Haigh. Like Trumper, Arthur Morris was a magnificent attacking batsman whose mastery of spin and pace alike is abundantly attested to by his team-mates and opponents. In my eleven, at any rate, Morris gets the nod ahead of his fellow left-handers, Taylor and Hayden. Let me seek some more controversy. Who shall captain this eleven? While Bradman is the obvious choice, I would myself go for Allan Border. The Don led sides so staggeringly gifted in all departments that they would have won anyway. On the other hand, Border guided Australia out of one of its worst periods in cricket history. He was, by all accounts, far better at nurturing young players and building team spirit. In a fantasy contest between this team and a West Indian All-Time Eleven led by Frank Worrell, I would trust Border over Bradman any day. Let me end this tribute to Australian cricketers by quoting an Englishman. This is John Arlott, himself the least parochial of cricket writers. After the 1948 tour of England, Arlott wrote a short but very perceptive essay on the way the Australians played cricket. The essay began with a set of questions: “Why are the Australian cricketers different? Why is a Test match against Australia different from a Test match against any other country? And why do we feel that it is different?” Arlott went on to describe matches he had read about or watched, in which some special characteristics of Australian cricketers were manifested. Arlott ended his essay by saying that, whenever an English team played in an Ashes Test, it was “faced with Australian batting, bowling, fielding, captaincy — and ‘Australianism’. ‘Australianism’ means single-minded determination to win — to win within the laws but, if necessary, to the last limit within them. It means that where the ‘impossible’ is within the realm of what the human body can do, there are Australians who believe that they can do it — and who have succeeded often enough to make us wonder if anything is impossible to them. It means that they have never lost a match — particularly a Test match — until the last run is scored or their last wicket has fallen”. This was written from the perspective of an Englishman. Yet it entirely resonates with Indians who have watched their own team play Australians at cricket. The Test series that is soon to begin Down Under shall surely provide further confirmation of the truth in Arlott’s remarks from seventy years ago. Ramachandra Guha’s The Commonwealth of Cricket has just been published. ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-107
