06-12-2020||Opinion||Yeh mera deewanapan hai||What would I know about my world? You tell me. It would be an audacity most unforgivable for me to tell you I know. Worse still that I may know better. Who am I? What would I know? Tell me. Tell me things that I need to know, and what I no longer need to know. You know. What am I to know? I feed the earth. I plough it. I seed it. I give it nutrient. Then I wait for the rain. Or the pump. It needs watering. It needs nursing. It needs taking care. Then I wait. And I look at what has come from all of that feeding and watering and nursing and caring. Then I return to it and reap what there is to reap. Sometimes it is a handful, sometimes there isn’t enough to fill a palm. Or two. And then I try to provide for the body what those hands are attached to, and have given. In the best manner possible, at the best price it is possible to fetch. But what would I know about all of this? You know best. Hum kis khet ki mooli hain? There’s no mooli like you. I hope you got that, Mooliji. This business of ours, where did you arrive at our business from? I wonder sometimes. You are not a farmer. You neither have land nor till it. Right? You peddled retail stuff, on platforms, or such places, right? Right. You are a retail person. Buy. Sell. At a profit. A commodity is a commodity. It comes and it goes. And it leaves you a profit. Dhandho! What would you understand, you stock market charlatan? You think money grows on crops? For you it perhaps does. Which is why you are here. Looking for an opportunity. Looking for dhandho. You were right, you spoke that one truth among the million lies you daily speak. You have commerce in your veins. If you had blood where commerce is, you would probably have understood what it means to do what we do. We don’t sow coins and reap rupees; you do that perhaps, or want to do. We sow our labour and reap love. But how are you to understand, you who have commerce in your veins and not blood. (Are you, by the way, so blood-thirsty because your veins lack for blood? Just asking. Never mind. Don’t set your cops after me, please, because I know what your judges will do after your cops have done what they have been commanded to do. I was just joking, don’t take me seriously. We are ordinary folks. We walk the spaces, we sprinkle random stuff on whim, we till and toil because what else is there to do, time needs to be occupied, you see, not everybody can bear the burdens of being VishwaGuru, and one day, voila, these things spring up. And the fields all get crowded, and so we clear them. And as a consequence of clearing the fields, we  get this thing called a crop. Which feeds. And which, before it feeds, has a price. How this happens, how are we to know? You know best. What we have is merely the whim of passing time, an unmindful result of walking the fields and doing whatever follows the walking. It’s all very easy. A walk in the park. Isn’t that what they say for things that are easy? Why don’t you come walk in the park with us, VishwaGuruji? Come get a sense of how it is to walk in the park. Get a feel of the park when it is bereft, and when it gets voluptuous with the gifts of walking in the park, and all that happens in between? Between the barrenness and the fulsomeness? Do you know what happens? You would know. Because you think we don’t. Someone should. Come then. Tell us. We do not know how this happens, this harvest of gold, what we call kanak, or gold. We think it’s what feeds us, you think it’s what feeds coffers. You know better. You are commerce. We are blood. But who are we? Order me, oh reverend sire
Oh master of many degrees
I’ll even attest, promise by fire
That potatoes grow on trees.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-107
06-12-2020||Opinion||The case of Ulysses||Reading Ulysses through this pandemic, I learnt that it found its first readers during the previous one. The Spanish flu began spreading through the world in February 1918 and had run its deathly course by the spring of 1920. The Little Review began serializing Ulysses in March 1918 till it was forced to stop in 1920, midway through the novel, because of a prosecution for obscenity. The thirteenth episode was the unlucky instalment; the prosecution was brought because it contained descriptions of characters masturbating. I haven’t got to that chapter yet. I’ve been stuck on the tenth chapter for a week now, the one that begins with a Jesuit priest giving a schoolboy a letter to post. Having read just under a third of the novel in the course of a month, I can truthfully say that it has been the oddest reading experience of my life. Joyce claimed he had stuffed the text with enough allusions to keep professors busy for generations so I imagine I’m reading the novel as he would have liked me to, with explanatory apparatus. This is, as any sane reader knows, ridiculous for fiction. Reading Ulysses is like reading a densely footnoted book... with the footnotes left out. Like many people who want bragging rights to this Everest of the fictional world, I’ve tried to scale Ulysses before and never got past base camp, otherwise known as the first chapter. The main character in that chapter is a young, impoverished, would-be poet who doesn’t like bathing called Stephen Dedalus so I assumed for years that he was the novel’s central protagonist. It shames me to admit that I’ve only just discovered that Ulysses’s Ulysses is Leopold Bloom. How did people read Ulysses before the internet? My method is to first read a chapter in the paper book in a state of general bafflement. I then re-read it in an online version, clicking through the hyperlinked annotations embedded in it to understand the maddening range of references. Finally, I wear my earphones and listen to the audiobook, where the chapter is dramatized by animated Irish voices, complete with street sounds, lapping waves and noises off, which bring the novel to life like an old-fashioned radio play. It’s this last ‘reading’, where I give myself up to the soundtrack of a story that I already know, that makes it all worthwhile. I know, life’s too short, but Covid has slowed it down enough to make reading Ulysses seem possible. Not, of course, to read it as Joyce’s contemporaries read it; they were real mountaineers, climbing Everest without oxygen or mapped routes to the summit. No, my storming of Ulysses is done with teams of online Sherpas and gigabytes of digital explanation. That said, it is a magnificent novel. The thing that surprises me most about it is that it is a young(ish) colonial’s novel. It was published in 1922, the year southern Ireland went from being a colony to becoming the Irish Free State, a self-governing dominion of the British Empire. Ulysses’s colonial setting is familiar to the Indian reader: there are viceroys and colonial policemen and patronizing Englishmen, and rude names for those Englishmen: Sassenach, Saxon, ‘stranger’, also ‘paleface’. The very first chapter lets you know that the Irish are used to subjection, that Ireland is an old, very tightly held, colonial possession. The novel begins with Stephen Dedalus living with a friend on Dublin’s seashore, in a fortified gun tower built by William Pitt (the Younger) to defend Britain against France’s naval gunships during the Napoleonic Wars. The mad, allusive ambition of the novel seems part of the colonial’s determination to inhale Western high culture whole, from the Bible to Hamlet, from Homer to Shakespeare, from Aristotle to Aquinas, and make it do his bidding, and, what’s more, to do this better than any writer from the imperial metropolis could. Apart from being an eccentric guide to the Western canon, Ulysses is also a Dublin street-finder. It is the greatest pedestrian novel ever written; its main characters literally walk the reader through their stories. It is also English literature’s great municipal novel, naming and inhabiting Dublin’s offices, its pubs, its butcher’s shops, its tobacconists, its newspaper offices, its cemeteries and churches and lanes as if they were durable wonders of the ancient world. It works the city’s transient notables into its story as if they were household-name immortals. This is remarkable given that the Dublin Joyce writes about is not one of the great cultural capitals of the Western world. It isn’t London or Paris or Berlin or New York. The cohort of great Irish writers who would make the city a name to reckon with were, for the most part, Joyce’s contemporaries. And yet he writes of Dublin as if it were the navel of the world. It is this matter-of-fact memorialization of Dublin, the way he makes the reader live this geography through the helter-skelter consciousness of its characters, that pulls you in. It is commonplace to speak of being immersed in a novel; with Ulysses, it’s more like drowning in it. I feel I know more about Molly Bloom’s adulterous life (her assignations, her underclothes, the tan shoes of her lover), about her cuckolded husband and latter-day Odysseus, Leopold Bloom, about Stephen Dedalus’s awful bathing habits and the geography of Dublin at the turn of the 20th century, than I have known of any set of characters in any place, at any time. I know that the feeling will fade, that it is, in part, a function of how hard I’ve worked at reading the novel, but it is a singular business, this sense of being wholly possessed by a foreign place in another time. The most remarkable achievement of Ulysses is Leopold Bloom, the Jewish man at the heart of its story. By some definitions, Bloom isn’t, strictly speaking, a Jew. His mother was an Irish Catholic and Bloom was formally baptized. It was his father, a lapsed Jew, who taught him the rudiments of his abandoned faith. As Joyce walks Bloom through Dublin, his pedestrian Odysseus becomes the Wandering Jew. For a turn-of-the-century Irish writer raised by Jesuits to cast his Everyman in the image of a kind, cuckolded Jew was an act of visionary empathy and daring. In that time of Irish nationalism and anti-Semitic bigotry, Joyce turned Homer’s travelling hero into a Jew. In a stroke of synthesizing genius, he fused the Hellenic and the Hebraic, the two source cultures of the modern West, into a single body. Hitler tore them apart less than twenty years later. Joyce’s great Modernist peers — Yeats, Eliot, Pound, Lawrence — were either racist or anti-Semitic or both at once. Joyce was exceptional. We should read Ulysses to remind ourselves that genius can come from goodness. We should read it, as all novels should be read (even great ones), for pleasure. And given the abyss that opened soon after its publication, we should read it with foreboding. 02/02/2022 will be the hundredth anniversary of Ulysses’s publication as a finished novel. Even at the rate at which I’m going, I should be done by then. mukulkesavan@hotmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-107
06-12-2020||Opinion||Priya Shakti: tackling invisible foes||Comics are not always comic, but they can still be unputdownable. In the land of powerful female deities, it seems apt that the first female Indian superhero should steal teenage hearts away. Priya, a gang rape survivor who becomes a superhero in the first work, Priya’s Shakti, in 2014, is a girl-next-door from rural India, distinctly unlike Wonder Woman or even Supergirl with her super powers. The brainchild of the New York-based technology expert and documentary film-maker, Ram Devineni, Priya has had four adventures so far, with the latest one situated in a world attacked by an invisible enemy, Covid-19. What is unique about this superhero is that her powers are kindness and courage, gained through painful experiences that mirror those of thousands of Indian women. Beginning with a touch of mythology, Priya’s narrative develops, as her creator says, along the central idea in many ancient Indian tales: the need to overcome one’s own fears. So Priya overcomes her fear and gains as her friend the flying tiger, Sahas, who carries her through the air to help women who are frightened and exploited, whether raped, trafficked or mutilated by acid attacks. Priya’s success — she is called the “gender equality champion” by United Nations Women — springs from a unique combination of magical illustrations portraying Indian scenes with realistic situations in which sexually damaged women find themselves. There is no moralistic tone; teenagers hate that. The comic book form is accompanied by an augmented reality app and Priya’s Mask, in which the superhero fights Covid, has a short animation film. Here, too, the theme is of compassion, courage, understanding and, significantly, cooperation. It is a lonely little girl, Meena, whom Priya picks up on Sahas to fly over Jodhpur, Meena’s city, so she can see how much her mother, a Covid nurse, is doing for her patients. Meena also catches glimpses of her equally lonely friends, all forbidden to go to school or play together. This adventure is a reminder of children’s suffering from loneliness and confusion during the pandemic: they need far more attention and care. Even more pointed is Priya’s decision to join forces with Jiya or the Burka Avenger, the female superhero from Pakistan, to convey the message that Covid-19 must be defeated by acting together, ignoring national boundaries precisely in the manner of the virus, as much as by masks and hand hygiene. That Priya should shift her attention, even for one chapter in her story, to the effects of the pandemic on children and ways to fight it, suggests that her appeal as a gender warrior is powerful enough to make messages about other frightening situations effective too. But the achievement of the comic book series lies in its attempt to give voice to Indian women, and to urge them towards overcoming their own fears. The outcome hinted at is not utopia, but an imaginable gender-equal Indian society||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-107
06-12-2020||Opinion||Why the farmers' protest is like no other||Some observers are comparing the ongoing farmers’ protests with the anti-corruption movement led by Anna Hazare during the Manmohan Singh regime. But there are fundamental differences between the two, making such a comparison odious. While there were always tell-tale signs of organized corporate backing for Hazare’s movement, it has now been established that the RSS-BJP also backed these forces. While some of the key players of that movement, such Kiran Bedi and Ramdev, turned out to be representatives of the Bharatiya Janata Party, another founder member of India Against Corruption which led the stir, Prashant Bhushan, recently confirmed the involvement of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. With Arvind Kejriwal launching his party, there was little doubt that the Hazare show was a camouflaged political initiative, not a people’s movement. But this is a genuine farmers’ movement with no political backing, driven solely by the interests of the farming community. Although the BJP has alleged Congress conspiracy and some farmers’ unions do have leftist links but their motive is not political. A section of the Congress is imagining its role by pointing out the passionate backing of the farmers’ cause by the Punjab chief minister, Amarinder Singh, and Rahul Gandhi’s tractor rally which set the stage for this movement. But the farmers movement has evolved on the strength of farmers and has so far brooked no political interference. There is no Hazare-like figure leading the movement, and the control is firmly in the hands of a broad-based collective leadership. Last, but not the least, this movement is not propped up by the powerful corporate lobby. It is, on the contrary, against this lobby. Any comparison is thus preposterous. The stunning performance of the BJP in the Hyderabad local body polls has elated party boss, JP Nadda. Leaders close to him said that even though this was a municipal corporation, the results have given the party chief more joy than the Bihar assembly polls. Barring Karnataka, the BJP has not been able to make meaningful inroads in any other southern state. Nadda believes the Hyderabad performance would help the party spread its wings not just in Telangana but also Andhra Pradesh and send out a message to neighbouring Tamil Nadu and even Kerala. “Those who branded BJP as a party of the north must take note,” tweeted the Hyderabad election in-charge, Bhupender Yadav. The Bihar and Hyderabad performances have finally helped Nadda emerge out of the shadow of his predecessor and the home minister, Amit Shah. When the results were declared, Shah congratulated Nadda and his team. Many in party corridors are wondering whether Shah made a mistake by quitting the post of the party boss and joining the government. After all, besides the prime minister, the second man who gets credit and even prominence on posters is the party chief. Shah is missing all this since he joined the government. On Wednesday, the Punjab CM, Captain Amarinder Singh, called his Delhi counterpart, Arvind Kejriwal, a “sneaky little fellow” for notifying the The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020. The ordinance is now one of the farm Acts ostensibly aimed at promoting trade in agricultural products outside State-regulated Agricultural Produce Market Committees — a step that farmer activists say will make the APMCs redundant and expose peasants to the vagaries and speculation in the private grain market. Singh’s outburst was part of a spat initiated by the Aam Aadmi Party which called him a “BJP CM” after he appealed to farmers to lift the blockades of highways and go to a designated protest site in Delhi. Since then, both sides have issued statements slamming each other almost everyday, in an attempt to shore up their pro-farmer credentials in Punjab where Congress rules and AAP is the primary Opposition. The upcoming Bodoland Territorial Council polls in Assam has seen Covid-19 safety protocols being thrown to the winds. Padyatras, bike rallies, bicycle rallies and massive poll rallies have become a routine, giving one the feeling that the pandemic is over. All leading contenders are equally responsible for the violations but it is the state health minister, Himanta Biswa Sarma, who has attracted most attention and flak for not practising what he has been preaching. He has urged the masses not to lower their guard against Covid-19 because the second wave of infection, expected during the winter, could be even more severe. Yet, Sarma has been seen dancing on stage, among voters or riding without a helmet or sitting on the bonnet of an open jeep to connect with the masses. Such has been the defiance of the political class, that the Supreme Court hearing a suo motu case on Covid-19 management had to ask the Assam government to submit an affidavit on how it plans to manage electioneering for the  assembly polls early next year. Not without reason. Assam is among the worst-affected states with over 2.13 lakh infections and over 980 deaths. Worried Covid warriors hoped the death wish of the political class does not extract a heavy price from the masses. Campaigning for the high-stakes BTC polls has had its moments — at times literally reduced to a cat-and-mouse game between the BJP and the Bodoland People’s Front, an ally in the state but not in the BTC. If Himanta Biswa Sarma accused the BPF of letting loose cats everywhere, alluding to the contractor raj, senior BPF leader, Chandan Brahma, countered by describing the BJP as a mouse out to devour the BPF which they will protect by remaining alert just like a cat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-107
06-12-2020||Opinion||Kitne farmer thhe?||There are stereotypes and there are stereotypes. The voracious businessman, the politician spewing platitudes, the soldier driven by patriotism alone. The stereotype of the Indian farmer is someone of lean frame, in scant attire, sickle in hand or plough. And though we incantate from birth “India is an agrarian economy”, that stereotype holds sway and one doesn’t quite associate the farmer with might. According to Census 2011, India has 118 million farmers. At the time of announcement of the PM-Kisan scheme in 2018, the Centre had budgeted for 145 million farmer families. Just in case you are fuzzy with your millions — the population of Bangladesh is around 160 million, of the United Kingdom 66.8 million, of Canada 38 million. The number of protesting farmers descending on Delhi all through last week would be hundreds of thousands. And at the heart of the protest, three farm laws pushed out by Parliament through a hurried voice vote despite some allies and many in Opposition begging to differ. Rozi picture But numbers don’t always spell might, especially not outside Parliament. In any case, one does not associate the farmer with might. With grain certainly and toil and land, but not might. Instead, the word farmer brings to mind suicides and images of bleeding feet with the skin peeling off. Most of the protesting farmers are from Punjab and Haryana; major wheat-producing states both. Wheat that goes into a roti. Roti that makes the world go round. India ranks low down in the Global Peace Index — it is in the 139th place in a list of 163 countries — but it is among the top four food producing countries of the world. It is among the 15 leading exporters of agricultural products in the world. Also, agriculture is the primary source of livelihood for about 58 per cent of our population. All of it comes to a lot of roti and rozi. Might and the right Nevertheless, one does not associate the farmer with might. He or she is more of an extension of the soil, elemental. And that’s why it seems all the more incongruous the decision to field the defence minister to lead talks, the need to resort to offence --- first trying to block them out, then trying to jail them, then labelling them Maoists and Khalistanis. All this despite the pledge of “intentions pure as Gangajal”. No matter what the final outcome, the four rounds of failed talks, the three farmer deaths in Delhi’s harsh winter and the length of protest are things that won't be forgotten in a hurry. Hereafter, farmers will be associated with some might and the government might want to be associated with a little less.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-107
