07-12-2020||Opinion||Planned Power: the need for energy modelling||In an effort to boost sustainable energy, the Niti Aayog partnered with the United States Agency for International Development to develop an energy modelling system — the process of estimating and analysing energy to meet a country’s demand without losing energy during supply and while keeping in mind environmental complexities. Both renewable and non-renewable sources of energy come with associated problems. If renewable sources are not always available owing to their dependence on natural sources, power generated from traditional sources cannot be stored efficiently. But because of the variability of demand and supply and absence of estimations, the maximum amount of electricity that could be needed has to be produced and whatever is not utilized is wasted. Power loss during the transmission of energy is included in this. India loses $86 billion annually, according to the World Bank owing to this. The challenges of unequal energy access and non-uniform sources of energy make the modelling of energy much more difficult in India. The Niti Aayog says that India will take on the experiences of the United States of America’s Energy Modelling Forum. India’s forum will constitute various think tanks and research organizations like TERI, IRADe, CEEW, NCAER and so on which have been consistently developing scenarios, modelling studies and analyses to provide inputs to the government. But if India does not dust off the problems of the EMF, which has not been very efficient, such a model might only become a development mirage. Energy models are computer programs, and the EMF is criticized for its top-down approach. Local data is scarce and mostly the generation of data is focused on specific areas and organizations. Such modellings are considered undemocratic and biased since, among other things, the models depict the behaviour of all consumers and businesses as a group and not as different entities. The models also do not reflect the social and environmental impacts that are not part of the prices and transactions in the market. Studies have shown that this model has not really been as effective as it claims. In the US, projections were different from forecasts, either overestimating or underestimating energy consumption and production. Lack of information on behavioural aspects of households is one of the causes for the errors. Behaviour is key to successful energy modelling and India’s huge population living in rural, remote and untraceable areas might be a challenge for the developers of the programme. Data gathering and analysis are important parts of energy modelling. But the collection, simulation and processing of data are more important than reporting. Open Energy Modelling is a framework which can resolve the issues of transparency. Under such systems, input is not restricted to be fed by appointed members and the open access of the programme allows individuals to contribute. Tools like the Open Source Energy Modelling System and Tools for Energy Model Optimization and Analysis are more democratic than closed source programs. Open models allow countries with a limited budget to build their own domestic modelling capabilities. International organizations like the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs have promoted the use of open source programmes and countries that have adopted such modelling methods include South Africa, Cyprus and Bolivia. China uses another open source like energy modelling, the Demand Resources Energy Analysis Model, and addresses end-use energy demand characteristics and links between economic growth and energy demand. India hosts vulnerable communities which do not have energy access and are worst affected by greenhouse gas emissions accredited to energy production. Efficient and clean energy is central to energy modelling system analysis. Rapid decarbonization and equal access to energy require modelling that can trap the potential new low carbon technology trends and make it accessible and affordable at the end-user level. Better representation of behavioural response, wide contribution from every level and technological detailing in the standard models may provide better outcomes for India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-106
07-12-2020||Opinion||Deadly hitman: inflation on the prowl||Ronald Reagan evocatively described inflation as “violent as a mugger... and as deadly as a hitman”. The armed robber is now on the prowl. The problem is that the policeman cannot ward him off because his truncheon is tied behind his back. Whether inflation in India, currently riding at 7.61 per cent, has reached such alarming levels as to draw larcenist labels is debatable. The traditional monetary policy response to check inflation is to raise interest rates. With the country technically in a recession, the policy makers of the Reserve Bank of India were not expected to use that blunt instrument. At the latest monetary policy review meeting that ended on December 4, the RBI’s policymakers chose to hold the policy interest rates and decided to persist with the accommodative policy that was embraced in June 2019. Liquidity has been sloshing around in the financial system. The net durable liquidity surplus in the system has ballooned to over Rs 8 trillion as on November 6 from Rs 2.56 trillion in March when India went into its first lockdown — an increase of over 213 per cent. The problem with this is that at a time when banks are looking to play safe and industry is reluctant to borrow, the deluge of money is winging its way back to the RBI through its reverse repo window. Banks still have surplus funds that they are deploying in the money markets where interest rates have tumbled below the reverse repo rate of 3.35 per cent, raising questions about the effectiveness of the policy rates. The problem of excess money is compounded by the fact that foreign investors have been pouring money into Indian equities and debt markets. The guiding principle within the central bank to deal with such a situation is to start longer term repo or reverse repo operations as these have no discernible impact on bond yields. That is precisely what the RBI has now done with its plans for on-tap repo operations and the decision to hold the reverse repo rate when most pundits had expected it to be cut. The surplus liquidity has only stoked inflation. Earlier, the RBI felt that inflation would cool in the third quarter as lockdown-induced supply side disruptions ended. The policymakers now believe that these disruptions will continue. They have identified two other factors for the inflation spiral: the higher margins that consumers pay as a result of the increase in product prices and the effect of indirect taxes. This can only mean that inflation — already way above the upside tolerance limit of 6 per cent — is going to remain elevated. The RBI is running out of options to deal with the elephant in the room. And it does not help when the latest Households’ Inflation Expectations Survey reveals that 86.5 per cent of the respondents expect prices to rise over 12 months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-106
07-12-2020||Opinion||Southern spice: Rajnikanth as 'thalaiva'||Tradition can be resilient. Politics, on some occasions, mirrors its endurance. Consider the traditional hold of the film fraternity on Tamil Nadu’s electoral politics. The churn in this southern state’s political firmament continues to be influenced by stars: the announcement by Rajinikanth that he would soon be dipping his toes into the unpredictable currents of politics is a testament to this phenomenon. Whispers of the veteran actor entering politics had been swirling for years and the final day of December is expected to reveal the contours of his political formation. The artist — three years ago, his fan clubs reportedly numbered 50,000, with the majority of their members hailing from minorities and socially disadvantaged groups according to some estimates — would be hoping that his massive following would propel his political fortunes. Tamil Nadu’s political pie has been divided by formations rallying around the Dravidian identity and relevant social, cultural and economic aspirations. The challenge for the mega star would be to create a niche for himself in this competitive space. The demise of two influential figures, M. Karunanidhi and J. Jayalalithaa, has left a vacuum. But public adulation may not be enough to win political contests. Kamal Haasan’s freshly minted Makkal Needhi Maiam did not quite create a splash in the parliamentary elections of 2019. There is no concrete word on Rajinikanth’s preference for alliances yet — Tamil Nadu goes to the polls next year — but there have been persistent speculations about his political — ideological? — leanings not being averse to those of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Indeed, the BJP, which announced that it would fight the assembly elections in partnership with the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, has been receptive to Rajinikanth’s political turn. It remains to be seen whether the BJP attempts to deepen its imprint in Tamil Nadu by cashing in on the artist’s aura. Bihar, where the BJP finally managed to clip Nitish Kumar’s wings, offers a template of this model of saffron expansion. But such a strategy is unlikely to please the thalaiva.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-106
07-12-2020||Opinion||The golden years||The old age home is a new social institution that came into existence first in developed countries and gradually made its way to India after several years. This variance in time gives Indians the opportunity to carefully consider the various aspects of this institution and its suitability to our society before allowing old age homes to become entrenched as an integral part of our lives. Although this institution is presented to us as a convenient modern facility much like a hospital or a hotel or even online shopping, like other modern facilities, it too has a history. There are different ways of approaching an issue. For instance, looking at a sculpture from the angle it is presented — the intended point of view — is one way of appreciating it. Walking around it, on the other hand, provides a more comprehensive picture. Leonardo da Vinci, for example, examined Michelangelo’s David at the Sistine Chapel from various angles in an attempt to see if he could discover aspects that may have eluded Michelangelo. He did, in fact, conclude — correctly as it turned out — that the stone chosen would crack if placed outdoors. Similarly, no one has scrutinized modern social institutions as thoroughly as Michel Foucault. He proposed that modern social institutions like the clinic, prison or asylum are formed by the process of exclusion, thus replacing the inclusive model of social institutions prevalent till Durkheim’s time. This has remarkably changed our understanding of the nature of social formation. Yet, even the indomitable Foucault did not theorize the institution of the old age home. I would like to claim that this was because he failed to read modern philosophers like Descartes and Rousseau who distinguished different phases of the modern self — namely, childhood, adulthood and old age. Instead, he saw the modern self as a homogenous whole. Even feminists like S.M. Okin, who highlighted the gendered nature of the modern self, took the gendered male self to be homogenous. I, on the other hand, would like to assert that the modern self is not only a male self but also exclusively a self that is adult although divested of advanced age, an important aspect of human existence. While instituting the modern autonomous individual, Descartes excludes everything from this self except cognition. The excluded consists of childhood as it is the phase governed not by reason but by ‘appetites’ and ‘teachers’ who, according to him, do not give the ‘best advice’. He envisages adulthood to be governed by reason, providing a reliable ground for the formation of the modern self. Like a butcher packing minced meat, or a carpenter separating a log of wood by chopping off both the roots and the branches, Descartes packs the content of adulthood in the modern rational container along with reason, the combination of which ultimately constitutes the modern self. Unlike his predecessor, Rousseau does not reject childhood, but he does seek to explain it away. In an enigmatic passage in The Social Contract, while dismantling the institution of family which he considers to be ‘ancient’, he characterizes the relationship between the child and the father as contingent. He says that children are free from the ‘father’ (why it is only the father and not the mother is a point that has been critiqued by feminists) after they attain adulthood. However, this leaves the deal incomplete as one might legitimately ask why the father should spend time and resources on the child without getting anything in return. In a traditional society, the account is settled when children take care of parents in their old age. However, this is not acceptable to Rousseau, as this limits the contract and puts the child in debt. This would also legitimize the return to family, which he is seeking to dismantle. So how does one settle this deal? If we read the passage carefully, the subtext reveals that children need not take care of their parents. The father takes care of the children until they become independent, and the account is settled. It is settled because the father is paying off his debt to his father by bringing up his own children. Therefore, the ‘deal’ is more in the form of paying off debt rather than the father forcing his children to be indebted to him. Rousseau replaces circularity in the family by half circles that move in a linear direction. Since children have no obligation towards their parents, two things follow: the modern adult self is available for production and the post-productive adult phase of a human being is moved to the modern facility of an old age home. These philosophers, therefore, disparage old age and are enthusiastic facilitators of capitalism, not romantics as envisaged by some. With the elderly thus segregated, neither children nor adults are exposed to the experience of old age, a cost the modern self has to pay for individual freedom and liberty. Rather than approaching this from the aspect of concern or caring for the old, I wish to reverse the strategy and approach the experience of old age from the perspective of children and adults. Everyone will inevitably grow old, except in the case of premature death. It may therefore help adults to learn from the experience of the elderly and, in the process, broaden their understanding or even change their approach towards life and work. On the other hand, the old too can learn from the experiences of children if they lived together. Reliving their younger days through the children, like rereading a text, might help the elderly gain a better understanding of their own childhood and the subsequent impact on their lives. Similarly, there are experiences of the old that can equip children to plan and prepare better for their own old age. It is in this context that this denial of the experience of old age may take the adults away from an important domain of human experience, which one may have to confront suddenly rather than get acclimated to gradually. The experience of the old can be seen as a valuable asset for the future instead of being considered a burden. However, the production-centred modern life psychologically implicated the old in such a way that they are unable to see the trap similar to that of those inside the cave in Plato’s Cave allegory. I wish to further claim that the old age home is an unreflected consequence of the significant changes to rationality, production, and adulthood brought about by modernity. It will be interesting to find out from the old whether, having now reached an advanced age, they would still choose autonomous individualism in hindsight. Reading modern philosophy is thus important for India as we can learn from the experiences from the West and formulate our own programmes to not only contribute to production but also to improve the life of the elderly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-106
