08-12-2020||Opinion||A pittance: the minimum wage question||The International Labour Organization’s recently published Global Wage Report for 2020-21 describes and estimates ways in which Covid-19 has affected labour markets across the world. In countries where the pandemic adversely affected employment in low-paid, low-skilled jobs, the average wage increased in the economy because of, what is referred to by economists as, the ‘composition effect’. This increase is not a true reflection of the economy’s health. In other economies, which have tried to retain employment levels as much as possible, the average wage rate has fallen through pay cuts and lower productivity. India has not been reticent about making public a number of data estimates, including those pertaining to unemployment and earnings. According to the ILO report, from the data available on India, the nation’s economy may have suffered the sharpest decline in average wages. The estimated wage loss in the informal sector was to the tune of Rs 63,550 crore in the first half of 2020. The total wage loss was Rs 86,448 crore. In the informal sector, the decrease in wages was 22.6 per cent since the pandemic began; the formal sector witnessed decreases to the tune of 3.6 per cent. The report lays a great deal of emphasis on the importance of an effective and well managed minimum wage system that helps create demand to boost the post-pandemic economic recovery, provides new employment, and helps reduce the unsustainable levels of economic inequality. The Government of India-appointed expert committee had suggested Rs 9,750 as the minimum wage per worker per month as a measure that could make a decent living affordable. This was published in January 2019. It is a matter of deep concern that before the pandemic, the suggested minimum wage was above the earnings of 58 per cent of self-employed workers, many of whom belonged to the casual labour category. As far as the regular wage and salaried workers were concerned, 42 per cent remained below the minimum monthly wage suggested. Since the pandemic started, only nine states in India have tweaked the minimum wage, but there has not been any concerted effort by the Central government to frame a fresh wage-incomes policy. If anything the agricultural reforms and the labour market reforms are likely to reduce incomes by doing away with many restrictions that help to prop up the minimum earnings. The Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act is a good starting point to build a new framework for income assurance. This is especially so since the ILO has claimed that there is a possibility that without interventions, 400 million informal sector workers might sink deeper into poverty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-106
08-12-2020||Opinion||There’s a lot in a name||What’s in a name? A lot — when it comes to India. Today, a Muslim name runs a higher risk of suffering discrimination. Names, thus, provide deep insights into society, ‘touching on issues such as gender, ethnicity and social class differences’. The study of the names of infants has emerged as a distinct subject of research. The pioneering work by R.G. Fryer and S.D. Levitt, titled “The Causes and Consequence of Distinctively Black Names”, revealed the stupendous social cost of having distinctively black names. Another study by the BBC in association with the University of Bristol’s Centre for the Study of Ethnicity and Citizenship found that “Muslim men are 76 per cent less likely to be employed than their white Christian counterparts in UK.” Applicants with Muslims names being rejected by employers in India’s private sector or flat owners refusing to rent rooms to Muslim tenants are not unheard of. Is the naming process connected to religion? In India and elsewhere in South Asia, a name indicates the religious identity of a person. A Muslim sounding name has an Arabic origin, while a Hindu name is rooted in a Sanskrit word. Another prevalent practice, especially popular in southern India, is the addition of the name of one’s native place or that of a forefather to a child’s name. Parents have also been known to name their children after celebrities or a community hero. But convergences and divergences are common, as is evident from the following data. A study of 2.4 million names of students at the secondary level in West Bengal in 2017-18 revealed a deep diversity in naming conventions. The top five names of girls among Hindus were ‘Puja’, ‘Priyanka’, ‘Riya’, ‘Susmita’ and ‘Priya’; for boys, they were ‘Rahul’, ‘Sourav’, ‘Suman’, ‘Biswajit’ and ‘Akash’. ‘Priyanka’ and ‘Rahul’ have found a favoured place in the top ten names among other social groups too. Our analysis also showed that the popularity of ‘Sourav’ corresponded with the hey day of Sourav Ganguly’s cricketing career. ‘Sabina’, ‘Sabana’, ‘Rubina’, ‘Salma’ and ‘Nasima’ are some of the most popular names chosen for Muslim girls, while ‘Samim’, ‘Sohel’, ‘Imran’ are preferred in the case of Muslim boys. Among Sikhs, ‘Simran’, ‘Riya’, ‘Amrita’ and ‘Gurpreet’ were the favourites for girls, while boys were frequently named ‘Amandeep’, ‘Balbinder’, ‘Manjit’ and ‘Manpreet’. Interestingly, ‘Priyanka’ was one of the most popular names among girls who are Christian; ‘Nikita’, ‘Anisha’, ‘Neha’, ‘Anjali’ and ‘Manisha’ were also common. These names are also chosen for Buddhist girls, along with ‘Sandhya’, ‘Nima’ and ‘Roshni’. ‘Rohit’, ‘Rahul’, ‘Abhishek’, ‘Rohan’ and ‘Raj’ are popular choices for Christian and Buddhist boys. We came across ‘Rahul’, ‘Biswajit’, ‘Sanjoy’, ‘Amit’ and ‘Sourav’ for boys’ names among scheduled castes and scheduled tribes: they are perhaps indicative of upward mobility. The names of girls for SCs and STs were similar to those chosen for Hindu girls. There were recurrences of the names of goddesses, such as Lakshmi, Saraswati and so on. Naming conventions are thus based on complex, overlapping ideas concerning ethnicity, religion, and region. India lacks adequate data to understand its diverse naming conventions. This calls for investment in recording and making available birth registration data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-106
08-12-2020||Opinion||Women at law: a question of empathy||India is rather startling. The system that upholds gender equality may display imbalance in the same sphere. The attorney general, K.K. Venugopal, recently spoke up strongly about the paucity of women judges in the Indian judicial system, saying that there were only two women judges in the Supreme Court among 34 and that no woman had ever been made Chief Justice of India. Women comprised only 7.2 per cent of judges in the Supreme Court and high courts, while the percentage of women among designated senior counsel was low too. Data were lacking on the number of women judges in tribunals and lower courts. Mr Venugopal urged the Supreme Court to ensure that the percentage of women in the higher judiciary rose to 50 per cent, since the Supreme Court collegium was the most powerful appointing authority. Surely this imbalance should have been emphasized earlier? The occasion for the attorney general’s comments was a plea against the conditions for bail imposed on a sexual offender by the Madhya Pradesh High Court. The accused was to ask the complainant to tie a rakhi on him, giving her a ‘brother’s’ gift of Rs 11,000 and another Rs 5,000 for her child. These conditions diminished the offence and trivialized the woman’s trauma. Nine lawyers had petitioned the Supreme Court, saying that such directions normalize a crime. In his response, the attorney general said that the conditions were unacceptable and could cause grave harm to the victim and society, that judicial orders should conform to judicial standards and such things should not recur. According to Mr Venugopal, the presence of women judges would ensure balance and empathy in cases of sexual violence. This view prompted his detailed statement about the sparseness of women in the judicial system. While the importance of Mr Venugopal’s insistence on gender balance in the judiciary cannot be overestimated, his comment that women would have more empathy in matters of sexual violence seems to suffer from a gendered assumption too. Following the law without bias, together with rules such as excluding comments on the plaintiff’s character, dress or livelihood, should go a long way towards delivering justice irrespective of the judge’s gender. Executing Mr Venugopal’s other recommendation that all lawyers be sensitized, however, would be a meaningful step forward.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-106
08-12-2020||Opinion||Rediscover the electoral music||A great piece of orchestral music is a confluence of several factors. First, there is the music itself as set down in the notes. Then there is the mutual agreement and coordination among the musicians for without everyone being on the same page, the team risks disharmony. Finally, there is the actual performance. The Congress cannot hide the fact that it is currently a poor orchestra. The proof is there in the music, and we all hear it. The predicament the Congress finds itself in is one of shrinking political space and the erosion of public faith in the party. The middle/moderate ground it stands for is no longer the preferred refuge of many. The middle space is shrinking for a reason. Right-wing forces have never shied away from adopting polarizing stances. For their political opponents and the people at large, the result resembles firefighting: extreme politics are intense fires. The moderates among the firefighters are losing significance; that’s how the middle space fades. Wrecking the middle space is part of the BJP’s strategy. Right-wing politics, however, strengthens the case for its political opposite — the left-wing. The ruling disposition is aware of this paradox; that is probably why it actively hunts Left sympathizers. The BJP’s strategy has been — shrink the middle space, corner the Left, cultivate a landscape for the Right and its hangers-on. Under such circumstances, you could resign to playing free market with democratic politics. You can argue that the Opposition will sort itself out naturally and, eventually, produce a credible alternative. However there is a danger. In their extreme avatars, neither the political Right nor the political Left is naturally democratic. The right-wing in India has amply and unapologetically shown its appetite for insensitivity and authoritarianism. Because its footprint in India never matched that of the BJP, the Left parties have isolated incidents of similar weakness being exposed. In states where they enjoyed political power, there have been instances of excess. However, as a marginal Opposition, mainstream Left parties — not the fringe ones — are compelled to be democratic. The Left has not been guilty of an Emergency like the Congress or of polarizing politics and divisive rule like the BJP. If the Right was to continue its current streak and the Left was to get empowered through progressive clearing of the middle space, then there is the danger of reducing our choice to one of two formations inclined to authority and differentiated only by ideology. If our goal is a modern, liberal, inclusive and democratic society, then we need moderates from both sides as prime choice with enough mutual distinction for them. Although the Congress along with some other Opposition parties has, of late, attempted to compete with the BJP in stridency, its actual value to the Opposition is as a moderating force and a pan-India glue. Additionally, while many corporates love the BJP, when it comes to a similar connect in the Opposition the easiest choice is the Congress. The connect matters because even though democracy and politics are people-based on paper, you need resources to fight elections. Even if you avoid corporate funding for being a corruptive influence on the system, you can’t avoid the GDP brigade. The BJP, once again, has followed a scorched earth policy here. In a bid to secure itself, it has encouraged leading corporates to create a cozy club. From the ranks of the Opposition, it is the Congress that is best placed to counter this; not because it is morally superior but because it knows the club, having been there before. But the question that is clear to the electorate is this: do these values give the Congress the right to dominate the Opposition? Or is the Congress more useful as a functional component within an Opposition fronted by parties capable of fighting and winning elections? Any move to take on the BJP will have to be two-pronged. The first step should be to fight the elections; do what it takes to evolve a convincing message, communicate it to the people, and encourage them to vote. If they are serious, Opposition parties will have to make great sacrifices in this regard. The Congress, for example, may have to accept that it is a party in rehabilitation, refrain from thirsting for political power and, instead, have its politicians provide their voice to the larger direction agreed to by a combined Opposition. In other words, it has to actively play a supporting role till the middle space and its own link to ground reality are nursed back to a viable scale. The Opposition needs an excellent secretariat, which addresses the bandwidth spanning voters to corporates. This is something the Congress can contribute to provided it shakes off the residual vanity stemming from being India’s grand old party. The second step is that of government formation should a future election grant these parties such an opportunity. Parties that refrain from making this exercise murky will genuinely gain the respect of the people, especially of those in the electorate wishing for an end to right-wing rule. For the Congress, focus shouldn’t be the next national election that an Opposition manages to win but the polls thereafter. It is a measure of how challenging the path ahead is and how much the Congress needs to restructure. First the musical notes, then the orchestra, and only after that a maestro, if there is one.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-106
08-12-2020||Opinion||Toxic traits||For those of us privileged enough to be able to stay mostly at home through the progression of this pandemic, life may be measured out not in T.S. Eliot’s coffee spoons but in delivery boxes. For those of us so addicted, spoons of coffee are also crucial, but the coffee powder now arrives with its own ceremony: the emails and text messages come first; then there is the phone call from the delivery man, asking for the four-digit pin, then the brief confirmation — ‘I have left the package with your guard’; then the doorbell, signalling that the darwan has left the package on the little makeshift table you’ve organized outside your front door using a small plank of wood and, yes, an empty delivery box. Finally you put on your mask and capture the packet from the potential miasma of peril-laden aerosols in the enclosed hallway. Inside the flat, there is the segregationary choreography of clean hand and hand contaminated by new packet. If you can afford to ignore the parcel for a few days, you put it alongside the suspects’ line-up of spices, pasta packets and sugar pouches on the living-room sofa. If your need is immediate, the prisoner is taken to the sink for one of several possible vidhis of sanitization. Quickly you compute what needs to be done according to whether it’s a cardboard box, soft packet, fresh food item in a plastic tub or whatever. Washing all sorts of things has now become second nature: paper pouch inside cardboard — take out and decant carefully; plastic pouch sealed by modern industrial methods — sponge with dishwasher liquid, doesn’t matter if it’s haldi or bajra or salt, you trust the packaging and give the outside of it a soaping; vegetables — just water is supposed to be fine, wash and dry; eggs — a little bit of soap won’t hurt them, but not too much, just enough to get the hen-muck off. Before, during and after each bout of sanitizing, there is the constant washing of hands — soap on hands, soap on the tap and the nozzle even as you turn on the water, soap on the pump of the soap dispenser. Wash, wash, wash. And wash again. Oops, did I just touch a non-sanitized surface after washing? — well, wash again. Some people have been ironing their morning newspapers but I’m not that in love with the front page; I’ve developed a technique to hold the very end of the top right corner of the front double page, using a cross between the googly grip of the great Australian, Clarrie Grimmett, and the fingertip deployment of champion pickpockets, and I use this to drop the inside pages and supplements onto a table before quarantining the outside pages in a corner. By late afternoon, I reckon any possible viral load has gone from these and I glance at them to confirm what I’ve already read on the net — the world is continuing its journey to hell in a handbasket. As the days pass, the boxes and the plastic packets pile up. The cardboard is deemed safe after a couple of days and I’ve made a small parking lot for the boxes near the front door. The plastic is another matter. For a while, I had the polythene bags stored in three boxes, labelled ‘Recent’, ‘Mid-term’ and ‘Safe’, and the boxes would be rotated as per the calendar. Now, having garnered enough of a stockpile to last me till the year 2060, I just get rid of the damn things every week, hoping someone somewhere will recycle them. Speaking of recycling, it’s been on my mind a lot over the last few months. A couple of times I had this dream that no one was taking away the plastic bags and cardboard boxes; and that they began to grow into those canyon cliffs that reached all the way up to my fourth floor and beyond before finally burying the whole building. At one point, I suggested to everyone in my building that we start to separate the dry rubbish from the wet garbage. This was met with great enthusiasm that lasted the length of time it takes to exchange 12 messages on the WhatsApp group, after which we all forgot about it. I shouldn’t worry though, because every few days I’m awoken by the sounds of vast piles of garbage being cleared from the kachra room in the much bigger building next door. As I get up and look, my bleary eyes can make out a team of four workers clearing and sorting the weekly detritus from the huge block of flats. Two men stand inside the room and shovel out the stuff. One man loads the carts, while another man sits right next to the brand new grey BMW sorting out the recyclables. By noon they’re done and the convoy of rusty carts winds its way through the shiny cars towards the gate. Once a piece of muck and mulched leaf had accidentally landed on the sunroof of the BMW, but only that once. I mostly avoid ordering in, but when I do it’s usually from the vegetarian snack bar across the road. The food is pretty clean and non-oily for a commercial establishment and I’ve been a customer for decades. One of the things I liked about the snack bar was that the packaging was as unpretentious as the food: simple thongas or, for the lunch thaali, paper boxes with a minimum of foil or plastic. Recently though, the place has gone what some people call ‘hi-fi’. I don’t know whether it’s the shrunk market because of Covid (a lot of its customers were office workers in the nearby buildings) or simply a perceived need to go ‘upmarket’, but instead of the generous portions of dal and sabzi in plastic pouches or foil tubs, they’ve shifted to these horrible compartmentalized thaalis with hinged lids, made from hard, non-biodegradable, clear plastic. The much smaller portions of food come trapped in these things, which make items spill into each other. I found myself thinking that these tray-thaalis were a perfect metaphor for what is happening. The upper and so-called middle classes have always been separated from the people who serve us and the ones whose labour makes our privileged existence possible. However, in a city such as Calcutta, there was always a ‘spillage’ where the working class lived cheek by jowl with the wealthier sections. The compartmentalization between the classes has been growing but the pandemic has accelerated this process: now there are new justifications to add to the old excuses to further marginalize the poor and shove them to the edges of the sites of daily urban existence. However, the imperfect ‘lid’ of the environmental crisis — of which this pandemic is but a part — has come down on everybody, leading to smaller portions, less generosity, and a different kind of bleeding across boundaries. Clearly, the future is biodegradable, but in that degrading future some of our traits will stay toxically intact, infecting everything.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-106
