09-12-2020||Opinion||More sickness: illness in different forms seems to be taking over the world||Sir — Illness in different forms seems to be taking over the world. The United Kingdom government has said that around 25,000 turkeys will be culled after the ninth outbreak of bird flu among captive birds in England this year. Bird keepers will also have to keep all captive birds indoors and follow other biosecurity measures. While there are assurances that the turkeys will be humanely culled, it is a shame that so many will lose their lives. The source of the infection must be investigated; at a time like this every effort must be made to avoid other large-scale disease spreads.Rania Alam,Mumbai FIRST BUNCH: Kind gesture Sir — It was deeply heartening to read about the Indian army’s gesture in repatriating two girls from Pakistan-occupied Kashmir who had inadvertently crossed the Line of Control in the Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir. Given that armed forces are generally associated with notions of aggression, the army’s actions in this case were truly honourable and exemplary. The young girls are sisters and were identified as Laiba Zabair and Sana Zabair. Before returning home, Laiba is reported to have said that they were treated very well by the Indian troops, who provided them with food and shelter and made efforts to ensure their speedy return to their own home. We must doff our hats to our jawans and their admirable actions for keeping the girls safe. This is why our soldiers are the pride of the country. Mohd. Noor, Calcutta Sir — It is a matter of great pride for us that the Indian army displayed its humanity by ensuring the safe return of two young girls who had strayed into the Indian side of the LoC. Given the history of hostility in the region between the troops of the two neighbouring countries, the two girls must have been terrified upon being detained by Indian troops. Women all over south Asia feel unsafe all the time on account of the actions of men; moreover, in conflict regions, women are the worst sufferers of the fallout of border hostility. The Indian army, however, took every measure to make the girls feel safe and to return them to their side of the border. The troops even gave the minor girls sweets and gifts, and repatriated them from the Chakan Da Bagh crossing point. Will this gesture of goodwill go some way in thawing relations between India and Pakistan?Asifa Iqbal,Calcutta SECOND BUNCH: Heroic feat Sir — It is fitting that essential workers — the nurses, doctors, delivery personnel, grocery-store employees and many others who have consistently risked their lives on the front lines of the Covid-19 pandemic — have won Time magazine’s ‘Person of the Year’ reader poll. These nameless heroes won after garnering 6.5 per cent of the more than eight million votes cast in this year’s poll, which asked readers to select the person or group of people who had the greatest influence on the year 2020. Essential workers as a group beat famed candidates such as the outgoing president of the United States of America, Donald Trump, the chief executive officer of Facebook, Mark Zuckerberg, and Pope Francis. It is a heartening sign that essential workers, who have actually done a world of good, were deemed more worthy of such recognition than the likes of Trump and Zuckerberg, whose records on violation with regard to human rights and privacy are less than ideal. The kind of ‘influence’ wielded by big corporates and certain global leaders might be immense, but it is not necessarily a good influence. Corporations, especially, work mainly for profit, often to the detriment of employees and the world at large, be it politically or environmentally. Essential workers, on the other hand, have put their own lives on the line — some of them have even lived away from their families and loved ones for months on end — in order to help their fellow human beings, be it by arresting the spread of the disease or by helping people lead a semblance of a normal life. Ratri Bose,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-105
09-12-2020||Opinion||Some lessons from Bihar||In the recently concluded Bihar assembly elections, the Left parties won 16 out of the 29 seats allocated to them. The CPIML (Liberation) won 12 out of the 19 seats it contested. Even though the National Democratic Alliance has scraped through, it is undeniable that Bihar has elected an inspiring Opposition with a strong Left contingent at its core. It is worth noting that an analysis in Scroll found that the “CPIML performed as well as the Rashtriya Janata Dal and even outperformed it across four subregions,” indicating “an actual resurgence of the Left, and not just an effect of alliance politics.” Moreover, the CPIML’s performance buoyed up the entire Mahagathbandhan in its areas of influence. The Scroll analysis found that “in the southern regions, where the Mahagatbandhan swept, both the BJP and to a larger extent the Janata Dal (United) were badly defeated by various Mahagatbandhan candidates... Census data reveals that there is a greater Dalit population in the Bhojpur area. The Mahagatbandhan did particularly well in reserved seats this election.” While Bhojpur does have a significantly large Dalit population, it also has a fairly recent history of extreme feudal oppression. Over three decades of anti-feudal assertion led by the CPIML in Bhojpur and southern Bihar counted towards the Mahagathbandhan wins in this region. For the past few years, the discourse in the mainstream media has been full of schadenfreude about the decline of Left politics in India. Even acknowledgements of the popularity of young student leaders on the Left have been used to drive this discourse, pitting the young leaders as ‘charismatic individuals’ against the supposedly outdated Left parties. The CPIML’s performance in Bihar has, once again, proved that such “reports of the demise of the Left in India are greatly exaggerated”. In the wake of the Bihar results, many have asked us what shiny, new, smart ‘Chanakya-niti’ did the CPIML use in Bihar? The answer may sound disappointing. The CPIML has no ‘secret sauce’ or shortcut to offer. Its success comes on the back of many cruel defeats and losses. The CPIML’s work is all about the ‘ABCs’ of the Left. But perhaps those ABCs do need restating with emphasis now. In that spirit, I would like to outline some key features of the CPIML’s work in Bihar. Right from its early days in the 1980s, the CPIML in Bihar acted on the firm Marxist-Leninist understanding that ‘class struggle’ did not operate in an imaginary realm of ‘pure economic struggles’. Instead, struggles for social and political justice were recognized as being integral to class struggle as those for economic justice. So the Marxist-Leninist movement in southern Bihar asserted the right to land and wages; the right for the oppressed communities to occupy public space as equals deserving of dignity; and the right for the oppressed to cast votes and even elect leaders. The struggle for voting rights of Dalits and EBCs in Bihar, a struggle in which the CPIML was the driving force, is comparable in its historical significance to the civil rights movement in the United States of America which fought for African-Americans to avail of their right to vote. For a movement with that history, it is not difficult to see the NRC-NPR-CAA as a ‘voter suppression’ move to snatch away hard-won voter rights; a move to disenfranchise not only the Muslims but the entire oppressed labouring communities. Some wonder how the CPIML’s alliance with RJD could work so well given the sharp contention between the two parties since the 1990s and the early 1990s. The CPIML, unlike the CPI and the CPI(M), did not ally with the RJD when it was in power. Perhaps in large part as a result of this decision, the CPIML retained its independent mass base and political profile, even as the CPI declined rapidly during the same period. But even during that period, the CPIML did not let up in its ideological and political work against the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh and the Bharatiya Janata Party. The CPIML mass base and rank and file now have no trouble recognizing the dangers posed to democracy by the BJP in Bihar and India: and so an alliance with the RJD has been embraced as necessary and welcome. Third, the CPIML is bold rather than shame-faced and furtive about taking up issues of political injustice. When Yogi Adityanath was telling BJP election rallies that the CPIML was ‘anti-national’ and that thanks to the BJP, the people of Bihar can buy land in Kashmir, the CPIML reminded Bihar’s poor and deprived that what they needed was homestead land in Bihar — and it was the NDA regime that had violently evicted them from such land in order to appease big landlords and corporations. Kapil Mishra and Anurag Thakur campaigned in Bihar branding the CPIML as a ‘break India gang’ for supporting Shaheen Baghs. The CPIML, meanwhile, did not hesitate to remind everyone to vote to defend the Shaheen Baghs which are the most inspiring civil rights and equal citizenship movements of our time. Every CPIML campaign speech urged people to ensure that no Umar Khalid, Sudha Bharadwaj, Anand Teltumbde or Stan Swamy would be wrongfully jailed in Bihar. It is not necessary, or even possible, to replicate the Bihar alliance model in every state where elections are due. The takeaways from the Bihar experience are as follows — that ideological and political resistance to the BJP’s expansion must be the top priority; that strengthening the Left movement is crucial to building a stronger bulwark against fascist politics; and that the Opposition as a whole needs to build grassroots agitations on issues of livelihood, jobs, education, and health as well as against instances of social and political discrimination and injustice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-105
09-12-2020||Opinion||Plunging down||Data released by the National Statistical Office, which show the gross domestic product for the second quarter (July-September) of 2020-21 declining by “only” 7.5 per cent compared to the second quarter of the previous year, have been hailed in official circles as “good news”; on the contrary, they show the economy being stuck in a quagmire. The first point to note is that while GDP declined by 7.5 per cent, private consumption in real terms fell by even more — by 11.32 per cent — which means that the share of consumption in GDP was lower compared to a year ago. Exactly the same is also true of the first quarter of 2020-21, so that during the entire first half of the current year private consumption has fallen more than the GDP compared to a year ago. This seems strange. When income falls people do not lower their consumption proportionately. They run down cash reserves, or borrow, in order to maintain their consumption to whatever extent possible. The ratio of private consumption to GDP, therefore, is normally expected to increase when GDP falls. The fact that the opposite has happened and the ratio of private consumption to GDP has fallen suggests that the incomes of the working people must have fallen even more than GDP in this period, so that despite running down cash reserves and borrowing, they still could not maintain the share of private consumption in GDP. Put differently, the period of the pandemic when GDP has fallen has also seen a fall in the share of the working people, and a corresponding rise in the share of surplus, in GDP. This must have compounded the misery of vast numbers of working people, to have not just a cut in incomes but a larger than average cut in incomes. The second point to note is that the share of government consumption expenditure in GDP has also declined during the second quarter of the current financial year. Here again, when GDP declines, and the government’s tax revenue goes down, its expenditure, a large part of which consists of salary payments, does not go down to an equivalent extent. One normally expects, therefore, the share of government consumption expenditure in GDP to go up when GDP goes down, that is to behave in a counter-cyclical rather than a pro-cyclical manner. That this has not happened and, on the contrary, this share has actually gone down suggests that the Central government, which has also become the arbiter of state government finances these days, has cut back heavily on all current government expenditures in the second quarter of 2020-21. With consumption, whether private or government, being curtailed so heavily, the recovery, such as it is, has been stimulated by investment, or Gross Fixed Capital Formation. Its share in GDP in the second quarter of the current financial year has been marginally higher than in the second quarter last year. Let us now look at the implications of these findings for the prospects of recovery starting from the trough (the first quarter of 2020-21). Between the first and second quarters of 2020-21, we find that as much as 58 per cent of the increase in GDP from the trough is on account of GFCF alone whose average share is normally around 30 per cent. The recovery in GFCF is not because new investment projects are being taken up in the midst of the decline in GDP. It is because projects that were already being undertaken but had been stalled when the draconian lockdown was imposed by Narendra Modi are now being completed, that too in a hurry before any new lockdowns are announced owing to fresh spikes in cases. The current investment surge is bound to subside unless businessmen decide to undertake fresh investments. Fresh investments, however, depend upon the growth of GDP, and since investment cannot just feed on itself it depends ultimately on the growth of private and government consumption. But this growth has not only lagged behind GDP growth but it also cannot even be sustained at its current level. The growth of private consumption cannot be sustained because households have either borrowed or run down cash reserves for maintaining it. Even if the GDP growth, starting from the trough, continues at its current rate, private consumption growth will still slow down because households will run out of their cash reserves or come up against borrowing limits. Besides, they would have to repay what they have borrowed or rebuild cash reserves, which would impair consumption. The growth of government consumption cannot be sustained at the level witnessed from the trough because the Modi government is loath to offend globalized finance capital that frowns upon fiscal deficits; and the fiscal deficit limit announced in the budget for 2020-21 as a whole has already been exceeded by the end of October. If the government was bold enough to enlarge the fiscal deficit at present, it might actually arouse little opposition from finance because of the context of the pandemic. But the government’s pusillanimity vis-à-vis finance keeps its hands tied. With both private consumption and government consumption not increasing even at the same rate as the GDP, starting from the trough, and slowing down for reasons we have mentioned, investment too will flag after the projects in the pipeline are completed. An autonomous increase in government investment, that is investment not tied to the growth of the market but undertaken on independent considerations, will not occur for the same reason that curtails government consumption, namely fiscal timidity. Hence investment growth will come down, starting a downward spiral of stagnation in the economy, after some recovery from the trough has occurred. An example will make the argument clear. Suppose, starting from the trough, GDP is growing at 15 per cent, with government plus private consumption growing at 12 per cent and investment at 22 per cent. As the backlog of investment projects gets completed, investment growth will come down to, say, 15 per cent, the same as GDP growth. But when this happens, GDP growth itself will also come down, and so will the growth of private and government consumption, which will then curtail investment still further and so on. The economy will proceed on a downward spiral that can go quite deep. In the current scenario, where economic activity is subdued everywhere, exports can scarcely be expected to provide a stimulus for recovery. Such a stimulus will have to come from domestic demand, where the government has to play a major role. Either its own expenditure, whether for consumption or investment, should be delinked from its revenue and allowed to increase, or it should hand over purchasing power to people to spend in excess of their incomes. Indeed, this latter course, which many have suggested, will also provide some succour to the working people who have witnessed a reduction in their share of GDP even in the midst of a fall in GDP. Both these methods for stimulating the economy will require an increase in the fiscal deficit well beyond what the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act permits. But the Modi government’s kowtowing to globalized finance prevents it from doing so, which is why the economy is caught in a quagmire.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-105
09-12-2020||Opinion||Farm fire: Bandh as solidarity show||The Bharat bandh called by farmers’ unions protesting against the farm laws passed by the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Centre elicited response from many parts of the country. This reaction can be read in two ways. First, the country — not its leadership — shares an emotive bond with the agrarian community. Second, the show of support is also an expression of public anger at the Centre’s shoddy handling of the crisis. The BJP, bolstered by its numerical superiority in Parliament, had passed the legislations without adequate consultations with the Opposition or, most importantly, with aggrieved farmers. Shockingly, when the protesting farmers decided to take their agitation to Delhi, the BJP — this is typical of the party — chose to not only greet them with a show of strength but also discredit the constituency. Farmers — they feed the nation — were equated with separatists and described as stooges of the political Opposition by overt and covert supporters of this regime. But the ruse seems to have backfired. Support for the farmers has intensified, pushing the government on the back foot. The dialogues, including the home minister’s request for talks yesterday afternoon, are an indication of the government ceding some ground. What has added to India’s discomfort is the international response to the protest. India’s petulant reaction to the comments by the Canadian prime minister — the external affairs minister skipped a virtual meeting on Covid-19 chaired by the foreign minister of the North American nation — did not deter Justin Trudeau from reiterating that Canada would always support the right to protest. Several British parliamentarians have expressed solidarity with the farmers and there have been sympathetic noises from lawmakers in the United States of America. The indignation in these nations can be read as part of the growing concern of the international fraternity with the authoritarian reaction of this government towards any show of dissent in a democracy. The BJP must be careful not to let matters deteriorate: it could add to India’s embarrassment. The BJP would also be mindful of the farmers’ protest providing political oxygen to the Opposition. As many as 19 political parties lent their support to the Bharat bandh, even though the farmers’ bodies have wisely decided to keep politicians at arm’s length. Whether this mobilization costs the BJP politically — the Congress had been singed by the anti-corruption protests in 2014 — depends on the Opposition’s ability to build a broader solidarity among its squabbling partners as well as with the voters. At the moment, India’s Opposition appears to be too fragmented for this challenge. This impotency contributes to the Centre’s rigidity and aggression against its own people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-105
09-12-2020||Opinion||Without law: UP's targeted discrimination||Arrests under the new Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020 have begun apace. It is not clear how the fundamental rights of freedom of religion and of the personal choice of consenting adults can be officially set at nought by a state. Although UP’s is not the only government to drum up the myth of love jihad, it is the first to promulgate an ordinance against religious conversion solely for marriage. The targeted discrimination at the heart of the law was made obvious by the police’s unequal treatment of two couples recently: the groom from the minority community in one case was thrown in jail while, in the other case, a woman from that community who had married a Hindu man was escorted home. The ordinance is a formal declaration of some of the regressive and repressive values being institutionalized in UP. These values seek to bar inter-faith unions where the groom is from India’s largest minority community, as well as inter-caste marriages, especially with Dalit men, and also destroy the autonomy of women. The attitude is far from being unique to UP; inter-caste marriages with Dalits lead to violence, murder and suicide in many states where outlawed khap panchayats and the crime of honour killings persist. What is remarkable in UP is the government’s official celebration of this attitude in contravention to the law of the land. Yogi Adityanath’s government is a law unto itself. An official communiqué sent to local intelligence units recently asked them to keep an eye out for ‘illicit love affairs’ between lovers of different castes or communities. The scale of the tragedy of young people in inter-caste marriages is indicated by the fact that, in Bareilly division alone, there have been 42 suicides among 58 people killed in just two years for marrying into another caste. Sixteen people were allegedly killed since January 2019 for this reason — 12 murders and two double murders — with eight suicides and 17 couple suicides. This seems to be on a planet different from the Allahabad High Court, which reportedly ensured relief in November for 117 inter-faith and inter-caste couples whose lives and liberty were being threatened by relatives. How can a state government and its police violate the law in letter and spirit and get away with it?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-106
