10-12-2020||Opinion||Deadly waste||Sir — In its annual audit, Break Free From Plastic has revealed that Coca-Cola, PepsiCo and Nestlé are the top plastic polluters in the world for the third time in a row. Coca-Cola plastic bottles — the biggest offender of the lot — were found discarded in 51 of the 55 nations that were surveyed. While several corporations have claimed to be working towards reducing plastic waste, their actions are clearly not enough. Unless governments strictly implement environmental laws, the situation will only take a turn for the worse.Apurba Dasgupta, Calcutta BUNCH ONE: Headline: Call to action Sir — A nationwide strike called by the farmers’ unions protesting against the three contentious agriculture bills indicates that the struggle against the Centre’s draconian legislations is intensifying (“No coercion on today’s bandh”, Dec 8). With almost all Opposition parties backing the Bharat bandh on Tuesday and many announcing parallel protests in support of the farmers, life came to be partially paralyzed in several big cities including Delhi. However, the response remained lukewarm at best in Mumbai. The trader’s body, the Confederation of All India Traders, and All India Transporters Welfare Association announced that markets across the country, including in Delhi, were to remain open in spite of the strike and that the transport sector would function as usual. The reason cited by the two bodies is that neither farmer leaders nor associations have approached them seeking their support on the issue. Such contentions between the organizations not only defeat the purpose of a bandh but also make life difficult for certain sections of the population without reason. The call for a strike during a pandemic should have been well thought out.C.K. Subramaniam, Navi Mumbai Sir — It was good to see that the Bharat bandh called by farmers protesting against the three new farm laws — they were passed by Parliament in September earlier this year — was observed relatively peacefully throughout the country. The farmers, especially from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, are fighting for a total repeal of the three laws which they fear will further marginalize them. So far the Centre has refused to budge on its position. Hopefully both sides will be able to reach an amicable solution soon, and the Centre, at the very least, will ensure that the farmers receive a just minimum support price for their produce.N.R. Ramachandran, Chennai. Sir — Hartals and bandhs have become a part of our daily life. All political organizations, irrespective of their ideological leanings, announce strikes quite often in protest. While it is their Constitutional right to air their grievances and protest in the form of hartals, political parties as well as other associations must always ensure that strikes remain peaceful. Strikes can be inconvenient for the common people in more ways than one and can also lead to immense financial losses. One report puts the estimated financial loss suffered by the Indian economy as a result of the nationwide bandh at Rs 32,000 crore. At a time when our economy has entered technical recession, any financial loss will only add to the miseries of the common people. The Centre must meet the demands of the protesting farmers. It is shameful that in an agricultural nation like ours, farmers have to struggle for months on end to get their concerns addressed.Jubel D’Cruz,MumbaiBUNCH TWO : Rising star Sir — The journey of Thangarasu Natarajan from a nondescript village of Chinnappampatti in Tamil Nadu to the cricket fields of Australia is truly remarkable (“Natarajan shines”, Dec 3). The left-arm pacer stole the limelight during this year’s Indian Premier League with his consistent performance for Sunrisers Hyderabad. He then went on to make his mark at the final one-day international against Australia by picking up two crucial wickets. Natarajan’s rise to prominence from his humble beginnings makes him a player to look out for.Ranganathan Sivakumar, Chennai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-105
10-12-2020||Opinion||Honey trap: fight against food fraud||Sweetness can leave a bitter taste in the mouth. Researchers from the Centre for Science and Environment have alleged that the honey produced by major Indian brands is adulterated with sugar syrup. That is not all; there appears to be a discrepancy in the results of different tests geared towards the same purpose. The environment watchdog had selected 13 popular honey brands to assess the purity of the product. Curiously, while the samples of almost all the big brands tested at the Centre for Analysis and Learning in Livestock and Food in Gujarat were found to be ‘pure’, 10 of the same brands failed the Nuclear Magnetic Resonance test, which is conducted by a specialized laboratory in Germany and is used globally to check for the use of modified sugar syrups. It stands to reason that assessment standards vary. If the NMR test detected adulteration that the checks in Gujarat could not identify, ought not the Central government to adopt the more stringent assessment model for domestic testing since the matter concerns public health? Making the waters murkier are revelations of the import and use of Chinese sugar syrups that are  ‘designed’ to avoid detection in tests. The CSE has said that its investigators received a shipment of samples containing syrup from a Chinese company that sought to evade the honey testing protocols mandated by the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India. In the wake of the recent border hostilities, the Union government tom-tommed its ban on a series of Chinese mobile apps as an economic ‘surgical strike’. Yet, it is evident that Chinese syrups continue to be imported by firms; traders even claim that Chinese companies have helped set up sugar syrup factories in India. It appears that the Centre’s economic surgical strike against China may have missed a few targets. The main worry, however, concerns regulatory oversight. The history of weak implementation of adulteration laws in India does not help either; Maggi was banned by the FSSAI in 2015 for allegedly selling lead-laced instant noodles before the government allowed the brand to return to the market. The battle against food fraud must be fought on two fronts. First, there is a case for raising public awareness so that citizens know that the products they are consuming are safe; second, institutional assessment protocols must be uniform to avoid conflicting results. There is also the additional imperative of assisting beekeeping communities — the maulis of the Sunderbans are an example — whose livelihoods have been decimated by the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-105
10-12-2020||Opinion||In camera: CCTV in police stations||It has been two-and-a-half years since the Supreme Court ordered closed-circuit television to be installed in police stations to check human rights abuses. Transparency comes reluctantly to India’s law enforcing institutions; hence even the 14 states which responded to the court’s impleading on the earlier order this September could not demonstrate adequate compliance by November 24. The Supreme Court has now ordered that every police station in each state and Union Territory be fitted with CCTV cameras with night vision and audio capacity. To emphasize accountability, the court listed the positions at which the cameras should be fixed in each police station, and insisted that the storage of recorded material should not be for less than one year, although the ideal would be 18 months. Governments are to release funds to make this possible immediately, form oversight committees according to the court’s instructions and submit in six weeks affidavits of compliance in letter and spirit within a fixed time-frame. In each police station, the station house officer would be responsible for the functioning and maintenance of the devices and report any breakdown without delay to ensure quick repair. The detailed instructions indicate the seriousness with which the Supreme Court has invested accountability; more, the insistence of compliance ‘in spirit’ could be taken as an exhortation to accord with the principles of accountable conduct. This order would be deeply heartening for citizens suffering, directly and indirectly, from the violation of rights by the guardians of law. The court extended its order for CCTV installation to the offices of all Central agencies that conduct interrogations and arrests in the style of the police, such as the Central Bureau of Investigation, the Enforcement Directorate, the National Investigation Agency and certain others. The larger sweep of the order this time should not only be seen in the context of the tardiness of police stations to act on the Supreme Court’s 2018 direction, but also, more pertinently for social workers, dissenters, protesters and critics of governmental policies, in the context of the continuing arrests and detentions of students and of activists in various fields. Transparency has become elusive under a ruling regime that thrives on opacity and the exclusion of differing opinions. The Supreme Court’s order has ensured a route for the reassertion of democratic principles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-105
10-12-2020||Opinion||A case for reform||Gender justice and equality are intrinsic to a democratic society and polity. Various articles of the Constitution, including Article 13, Article 14 and Article 15, uphold these values for all Indian women irrespective of caste, class, ethnicity or religion. And yet, the journey towards gender equality has never been easy in this country. Reform in laws pertaining to marriage and family has been a complex and contentious subject in our religious and patriarchal society. Parliament has framed different laws over the decades in an effort to bring about equality for women. Today, women enjoy nearly equal rights as men, at least legally. But there are exceptions to this; Muslim women lag behind in terms of legal protections. The Constitution grants the right to religious freedom for all citizens. Traditionally, this has meant that laws pertaining to family matters such as marriage, divorce, child custody, inheritance, and property would be based on religious texts. This is where complications arise. Historically, women’s subjugation has been passed off as normal in the name of religion by male religious authorities. This has been true for all faiths. Sati, widow harassment, dowry, triple talaq, polygamy — each of these practices has been justified in the name of religion. It is not surprising that the founding luminaries of our nation were concerned about the marginalization of women even after Independence. Jawaharlal Nehru and B.R. Ambedkar were keen to ensure that women attain equality in marriage, family and society. They anticipated the denial of rights to women on one or the other religious pretext or in the name of tradition. They unsuccessfully tried to bring about a secular law in the form of the uniform civil code. This move was opposed vehemently by sadhus and by some political leaders as they felt that this was an attack on our ancient heritage and civilization. The archives of the Constituent Assembly debates highlight the vociferous opposition to such a law to protect women. Society was perhaps not prepared for it and Nehru was forced to abandon the idea. It features as Article 44 of the Constitution under the Directive Principles of State Policy. But a way was found in the form of a Hindu code bill to give rights to Hindu women. The Hindu Marriage Act, 1955, The Hindu Succession Act, 1956 and more such laws were brought in. Gradually, Parliament passed amendments to benefit Christian women who now enjoy the right to initiate divorce. Unfortunately, Muslim women were largely left out of the ambit of legal protection in the absence of reform in Muslim family laws that are governed by the Muslim Personal Law (Shariat) Application Act, 1937. This law is insufficient and silent on important aspects such as age of marriage, meher, triple talaq, polygamy, the guardianship of children, women’s share in property and so on. Muslim women’s democratic movement against instant triple talaq has been a historic development in the current decade. Since 2011, more and more Muslim women started speaking out against this arbitrary practice. They highlighted that there is no Quranic sanction for such instant unilateral divorce. Ordinary women joined the movement demanding justice based on Quranic values as well as constitutional principles. They openly challenged misogynist interpretations by the self-appointed guardians of religion who had perpetrated an unjust practice for ages. The women not only mobilized Parliament and the Supreme Court but they also educated the entire community and the country. The conservative clergy has come in the way of honouring gender rights granted by the Quran, women were saying in unison. Several women petitioned the Supreme Court and, finally, triple talaq was declared illegal in 2017. But nothing is devoid of politics in our troubled, multi-faith society. The Bharatiya Janata Party-led Union government supported the abolition of triple talaq. In an affidavit filed on the matter in the Supreme Court, the Centre stated that the fact instant triple talaq is illegal in nine Muslim countries reveals that it is not part of the essential practice of Islam and must be abolished. In its second term, the government passed a law against triple talaq, leading to an uproar within and outside Parliament. One MP termed this law as a plan to fill the prisons with Muslim men. Without going into the motivations of the government in bringing about the law against triple talaq, let us remember that the BJP came to power only in 2014. The Quran had called for affirmative action in favour of women 1,400 years ago. Tunisia, Morocco, Indonesia and some other Muslim countries have worked out progressive jurisdiction on gender. Unfortunately, in India, there has been a nexus between political parties and the conservative, patriarchal clergy that has thwarted any effort to reform Muslim family law. Remember how they joined hands to crush the voice of Shah Bano in 1985? Indian Muslims comprise the largest minority community. The majority of Muslims are poor, educationally backward, and economically deprived. The political representatives lack commitment and competence to alleviate their plight. The community has been in the grip of a conservative clergy, which is clueless on most issues. India has become highly polarized in the last few years. Mob lynchings in the name of gau raksha, discriminatory laws such as the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, the looming National Register of Citizens, harassment through the bogey of love jihad have amplified the sense of fear among Muslims. In spite of the prime minister’s slogan of ‘Sabka Saath, Sabka Vishwas’, the government has done nothing to address the concerns of the community. The conservative ulemas have maintained that religion is the sole prerogative of men. Some sections feel that this is not the right moment to demand reform in Muslim family law. But there is never a proper time for gender justice. The movement for reform initiated and led by Muslim women must be supported by all.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-105
10-12-2020||Opinion||An older root: Organic traditions for BJP in Bengal||Historians researching contemporary events have traditionally banked on newspapers and magazines as primary sources. Those delving into developments after the first decade of this century will probably find that printed sources would need to be supplemented with material drawn from electronic archives. With the growing importance of the electronic media, it is likely that YouTube will acquire a great deal of importance for a future generation of historians. A perusal of the clips from television shows from the second half of 2013 to the victory of Narendra Modi and the Bharatiya Janata Party in May 2014 will reveal that there was a broad consensus among political pundits on two things. First, it was widely believed that while the momentum was with Modi, the tally of the BJP and its allies would fall short of the majority mark. This deficit, in turn, would prompt the BJP to select a less ‘polarizing’ figure than Modi as prime minister. Secondly, while it was felt that the BJP would do exceedingly well in northern and western India, Modi would fail to make a dent on the imagination of voters in eastern and southern India. The belief that the BJP is primarily a party of upper caste Hindus — with a sprinkling of support from the backward castes — was widespread in the ranks of the punditry. The election results of 2014 and 2019 disproved both assumptions but never entirely. In the run-up to the 2019 polls, it was suggested that 2014 was a freak ‘black swan’ phenomenon and that India would revert to fractious coalition governments. Moreover, despite the BJP’s inroads into Karnataka, the feeling that eastern and southern India are out of bounds for the saffron party remained a firm belief among professional BJP-watchers. Under the circumstances, the BJP’s victory in 18 seats in West Bengal and a majority of seats in Assam came as a rude shock. This shock may well escalate into a larger conceptual turbulence following the BJP’s dramatic showing in last week’s election to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation. Although the party lagged behind the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi in seats, it improved its seat tally from four in 2016 to 48 out of 150 seats. In terms of vote share, its tally of 35.56 per cent was only 0.25 per cent (or 8,456 votes) below that of the TRS. The gradual emergence of the BJP as the principal Opposition to the TRS in Telangana may have further punctured the belief that the party cannot be a force outside the Hindi belt, but it still lingers. In West Bengal, the big battlefield for the assembly elections of 2021, the Trinamul Congress has based a big chunk of its campaign on the plank of the BJP being a party of ‘outsiders’. As the fissures within the TMC escalate, the dissidents are being advised to avoid looking at the BJP as an alternative because the party has no links with the culture and ethos of Bengalis. Culture wars are a feature of larger political conflicts and what is happening in West Bengal is hardly unique. However, it is also true that beyond the parameters of electoral politics, there is a perception — promoted in a section of the media — that the ‘progressive’ underpinnings of modern West Bengal are at odds with the BJP’s commitment to Bharatiya sanskriti. This is a view that is shared not only by the TMC and its favoured intellectuals but also by the Left and its fellow-travellers. The argument is facile and based on a narrow, ‘progressive’ interpretation of the past. Apart from the obvious fact that the Bharatiya Jana Sangh — the political precursor of the BJP — was born out of Bengali political impulses, founded by Shyama Prasad Mookerjee in 1952, and won its first Lok Sabha seats from West Bengal in 1951-52, there is the intellectual ancestry of modern Indian nationalism. Despite the implicit suggestion of some historians that West Bengal’s turn to Left politics after Independence was a consequence of the 19th-century Bengal Renaissance, the linear movement is not obvious. The exposure to European ideas did certainly steer a small section of Bengali Hindus in the direction of British Anglican theology — although these influences didn’t necessarily lead to the growth of Christianity — but the deeper impact was that of nationalism. The nationalism that influenced Hindu Bengalis was that which stemmed from the imagery of Bankim Chandra Chatterjee, the Hindu pride of Swami Vivekananda and the political imagination of the likes of Sri Aurobindo and Bipin Chandra Pal. It was inherently conservative in inclination and centred on the creation of religio-political impulses. This strand of political thought was naturally at odds with both Gandhism and the progressivism promoted by the communist parties, not to mention the liberal cosmopolitanism that struck roots in a section of Hindu Bengalis. The dominant hold of Mahatma Gandhi on India’s nationalist imagination led to intriguing developments in Bengal. The leadership of the Mahatma was grudgingly accepted in Bengal but this was not accompanied by the internalization of the Gandhian imagination. What further complicated matters was the Bengali Hindu failure to come to terms with the ‘Muslim question’. As many historians have noted, its heart was with the Hindu Mahasabha but the body remained nominally with the Congress. Subhas Chandra Bose personified the conflicting pulls and pressures on the Bengali Hindu: his political imagination was unquestionably pre-Gandhian, his local political conduct was dictated by alignments within conservative nationalism, and his national profile was linked to the socialist critics of Gandhi. With Partition and Independence, the fog partially lifted and competitive politics was reduced to a straight fight between the ‘progressive’ Left and the conservative Congress dominated by the likes of B.C. Roy and Atulya Ghosh. The electoral growth of the Left from 1967 witnessed two developments. First, the economic basis of conservative politics was undermined by agricultural land redistribution and industrial collapse. Second, whether it was Siddhartha Shankar Ray in the early 1970s or Mamata Banerjee four decades later, the anti-Left forces chose to fight the communists by painting themselves a pale shade of red. The Youth Congress-Chhatra Parishad — the real political mentors of the TMC — for example, incorporated the Congress’s post-1969 Left turn. The BJP in West Bengal, despite its national lineage, is a relatively new formation that grew out of its Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh core. The accretion of its strength, post-1990, drew from various streams. There was first the fallout of the Ayodhya movement, the BJP’s emergence as the principal alternative to the Congress and, most important, the appeal of Narendra Modi. In the past few years, the most significant stream has come from the TMC that — apart from a disappointment with Mamata Banerjee’s post-2016 overdependence on her own family — is at home with the BJP’s old anti-Left credentials and its new populism. If the BJP is to upstage the TMC in the assembly election next year, it has to supplement these tendencies with the neo-conservatism of aspirational India that also finds expression in the growing Bengali Hindu exasperation with economic decline and a new ‘Muslim question’. Integrating these different traditions is the political challenge before the saffron party. There always was and will be a robust and organic Right in the politics of West Bengal. Its character and expression have evolved with time and context.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-105
