11-12-2020||Opinion||Maximum cities: quality of life||Oft-ignored factors can make a marked difference in the quality of human life in urban settlements. This was borne out by the findings of researchers from the Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay, who brought out an urban quality of life index that is adapted to reflect the diverse ground realities in Indian cities. Such indices often draw their conclusions from a disproportionate emphasis on factors such as economic and infrastructural amenities, including housing, employment and transport facilities. This survey does lay emphasis on civic resources and economic conditions: many of its findings are based on a number of expected denominators, such as water supply, employment rate, electricity and the rate of literacy. What is interesting, however, is the index’s new focus on certain qualitative parameters for specific constituencies that, in turn, reveals structural anomalies: these include gender parity, women’s safety and the environment. Gender equality, for instance, has been taken into account for the first time. Mumbai tops the list, followed closely by Delhi, Calcutta and Chennai in terms of urban life quality. The inclusion of gender parity as an assessment category has had a significant effect: had it not been considered, then cities such as Delhi, Jaipur and Indore would have ranked higher, with Mumbai ceding its top spot. The new parameters offer a more holistic picture of urban Indian living while pointing out stark differences in the socio-cultural milieu of cities: Jaipur, the survey found, has the highest rate of crime against women, while Calcutta has surpassed the average score on gender equality and has the lowest gap in literacy between men and women. The survey points to a common, disturbing pattern that binds cities. The exclusion and other challenges faced by women and, indeed, other vulnerable sections have traditionally not been integral to policies designed to improve standards of urban living. There is a case for the rest of urban India to emulate Calcutta’s accomplishments on this count. This is all the more important in a nation that was ranked the most dangerous country for women only two years ago. The road to a truly sustainable, inclusive quality of urban life, however, will require progress being made in many other areas of concern. The speed and scale of urbanization is bringing with it severe disruptions: loss of biodiversity, climate change, ageing populations, the rising burden of diseases, widening income gaps, growing pollution and primitive waste management are causing cities to struggle to meet public demands of a prosperous future. The findings of the survey must be used to sensitize not just civic authorities but also urban developers so that they are able to engage with the needs of city dwellers while ensuring urban development intersects with socio-economic justice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-104
11-12-2020||Opinion||Curious case: Facebook in yet another controversy||Sir — Facebook is embroiled in yet another controversy. The Federal State Commission and over 40 states in the United States of America have accused the social media service company of trying to establish its monopoly by buying up its rivals illegally. Breaking the law in order to secure market dominance is detrimental to healthy competition. But it is difficult to nail an organization as big as Facebook since it is likely to use its financial power to hinder the investigation. The US, however, has a history of successfully punishing errant companies by breaking them up. One must wait and watch how this case turns out. Sandhya Guha,
Calcutta Sir — Sankarshan Thakur must be congratulated for speaking the hard truth in his article, “Out of step” (Dec 3). It is true that the series of brutalities in Kashmir, the implementation of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the National Register of Citizens, laws against the so-called ‘love jihad’, among others, are not merely imposed on Indians by the government; rather it is Indians themselves who have voted and re-elected this regime, with its goal of exercising majoritarianism, to power. In fact, a large section of the Indian electorate seems to welcome this show of muscle power, ensuring overwhelming support for the ideological group which has a history of inciting violence — the riots following the rath yatra and the demolition of the Babri masjid are examples. Instead of raising questions about why the government was engaged in the ‘Namaste Trump’ event, the NRC-CAA row and the toppling of Madhya Pradesh government through the back door when it should have been focusing solely on nipping the pandemic in the bud by creating necessary infrastructure and declaring a lockdown much before it actually did — with at least 7-10 days’ notice, people started banging pots and plates in response to the clarion call of the prime minister, Narendra Modi. Thousands of people were left to walk back home, and over a hundred of them died on the way, of starvation, ill health or in accidents. Surely Indians have lost all sense of compassion; why else would they not pose any question to the authorities or their own conscience? Just because the government of the day is appeasing the Hindutva constituency with the Ram mandir and cow politics, the promise of undermining the minority communities through the abrogation of legislations regarding Kashmir, the implementation of the NRC and the CAA, the invocation of ‘love jihad’, can all scandals and failures — fatal assaults on the freedom of speech of dissenters, inability to tackle Chinese aggression, rising unemployment, failing economy — be condoned? The less said about the government’s performance in fighting Covid-19 the better. Indeed, people get the government they deserve. The devotees of muscle and majoritarianism must live with these “achchhe din”. Kajal Chatterjee,Calcutta Sir — In his article, Sankarshan Thakur has raised some very pertinent questions. Of course the government has to be held accountable for its failures, but the more important question is why are citizens of India so complacent? What is required to move people to protest against the ruling dispensation at the Centre at the ballot? The future of the country truly depends on the electorate. However, it is interesting that following the prime minister’s recent visit to Varanasi for Dev Deepavali, the BJP secured only one of the three legislative council seats in the constituency. This means that the dazzling light-and-sound show by the riverside has not succeeded in blinding everyone. Soumita Choudhury,Howrah Sir — As always, Sankarshan Thakur’s article made for delightful reading. However, it seems that he chose not to touch upon the alleged clearance of slums in the city to make way for all the glitz of Dev Deepavali. Meanwhile, the Bharatiya Janata Party is set to decide for the people what they should or should not eat. The proposed blanket ban on cow slaughter in Karnataka is a case in point. However, it appears that the party does not have the gall to impose a similar ban in Goa. P.T. Mallik,Calcutta Sir — Mukul Kesavan’s article, “The case of Ulysses” (Dec 6), reminds one of how sublime the novel, Ulysses, is, given its tapestry of allusions and its multiplicity of voices. In fact, James Joyce took delight in the complexity of his masterpiece, suggesting that it could give Ulysses a sort of immortality. Joyce was himself of the opinion that he had “put in so many enigmas and puzzles that it will keep the professors busy for centuries arguing over what [he] meant”. The novel is about to turn a century old, and we are still deciphering its nuances; so Joyce was probably correct. The tussle over the publication of Ulysses raged on in two continents for years. It ultimately helped change the way courts analysed obscenity cases and resulted in the expansion of the scope for free speech for authors. The final episode, “Penelope”, allegedly owing to its candid sexual imagery, was the focus of the 1933 obscenity trial, United States versus One Book Called Ulysses. Chiranjib Haldar,
Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-104
11-12-2020||Opinion||Hollow pledge: upholding dignity, equality||A steady rise in cases of atrocity against Dalits reflects the deep-seated caste bias in India. Public servants are not immune to this prejudice. The manner in which local authorities approached the gang rape and mutilation of a Dalit woman in Hathras is a testament to the bias. The officials delayed registration of the crime, attempted to pressurize the victim’s family, participated in the destruction of evidence, and prevented the media from covering the case. By not taking appropriate action against these officials, the State is deviating from constitutional and international guarantees of protection, dignity and substantive equality. The Constitution recognizes ‘caste’ as a marker of discrimination against citizens. Article 15(4) and Article 16 enable the State to undertake affirmative action for marginalized communities, including Dalits. Parliament has implemented policies such as reservations for Dalits in public educational institutes and government jobs to uplift them socially and economically. The Constitution, thus, strives for ‘substantive equality’ — a multidimensional view of equality — in a bid to redress historically created systemic disadvantages, combat prejudice and stigma, prevent political exclusion and accommodate structural changes. The Supreme Court recognized the constitutional vision of substantive equality in State of Kerala vs N.M. Thomas. It acknowledged that people were not created equally, and that the claim for equality was a protest against unjust and unjustified inequalities. Thus, the State had the power to enact affirmative action to ensure a level playing field for India’s various caste groups. The Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 is another manifestation of the goal of substantive equality. It provides special protection to SC and ST members from humiliation and harassment. It criminalizes acts of public servants who neglect their duty to protect SCs and STs. Those charged under this statute do not have recourse to anticipatory bail. In State of MP vs Ram Krishna Balothia, the bar on anticipatory bail was recognized as an important protection for SCs and STs by the apex court; otherwise, the accused would misuse their liberty to terrorize their victims and prevent an investigation. Cognisant of this fact, Parliament had overturned a decision by the Supreme Court to grant additional protection to public servants in cases under the Act. This parliamentary intervention is an acknowledgment that Dalits continue to endure horrors. The Hathras officials who burnt the body of the victim and refused to file the complaint had not been charged under the Act. India has ratified several human rights treaties that impose international obligations. In its latest cycle of the UNHRC Universal Periodic Review, the Indian delegation had “noted” nine caste issue-based suggestions. However, Dalit rights activists say that there has been no further information on how the government seeks to implement these suggestions to end caste-based violence. Human rights, in parlance of international law, are achieved through obligations of conduct and of result. Where the former would require “action... calculated to realize the enjoyment of a particular right... [t]he obligation of result requires States to achieve specific targets to satisfy a... substantive standard.” Honouring substantive equality would remain a hollow promise unless it is implemented to satisfy the standards of social, economic and political equity. For a State to eradicate the core of discrimination, it must counter it through the language of human rights entrenched in constitutional and international law. It must give life to this language through actions of its machinery to implement these laws faithfully.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-104
11-12-2020||Opinion||The contrarian view||A retired Pakistani general and one-time director-general of its Inter-Services Intelligence has recently written a novel, Honour Among Spies, a thinly-veiled depiction of contemporary Pakistan politics, civil-military tensions, India-Pakistan relations, the war on terror and so on. The author, Asad Durrani, had acquired some notoriety in Pakistan when he co-authored The Spy Chronicles with A.S. Dulat, the former head of India’s external intelligence. This book was a series of conversations between the two on India-Pakistan conflicts and on Kashmir. This public act of intellectual cooperation of a Pakistani general with an Indian spymaster was unusual, as was a frank discussion on Kashmir with an Indian. The fact that the book was published in India muddied waters further in Pakistan and in the resulting dust-up General Asad Durrani was investigated and his pension temporarily stopped (he had retired in the mid-1990s). General Durrani followed up with a second book, Pakistan Adrift — in part autobiographical and covering Pakistan’s political and military history post 1989. His treatment was critical of the army brass, Pakistan’s political class and of the army’s political role in general. The latest foray is in a different genre — being a novel. Yet, for observers of Pakistan, its central characters are close enough to real-life figures — Indians and Pakistanis, generals and politicians alike. While General Durrani’s opinions and motives have been debated, his books, especially the latest novel, mark him out as a contrarian — although perhaps one who has come to contrarian positions much after he left the army. We have a more striking example of another dissident general from the 1950s. This was the famous ‘General Tariq’ who was responsible for Pakistan’s failed attempt to nullify the Maharaja of Kashmir’s accession to India decision by capturing Srinagar. ‘Tariq’, named after a famous Islamic military hero credited with the conquest of Spain, was the self-styled name of Akbar Khan, the planner of the strategy of tribal raiders backed by Pakistan army personnel infiltrating the Kashmir Valley in October 1947. The strategy failed but enabled Pakistan to gain a toehold in Mirpur and Muzaffarabad, which it retains. General Akbar Khan’s book, Raiders in Kashmir, was published originally about half a century ago and was clear proof of the planning and high-level government involvement that were behind the raids that led to the first India-Pakistan war. In the aftermath of the war, Akbar Khan was an embittered and ambitious man blaming the government for not committing fully to the Kashmir struggle. In 1951, he along with many others were accused and tried for mounting a military coup. This was the famous Rawalpindi Conspiracy case, which included, among the conspirators, the poet, Faiz Ahmed Faiz. Their sentences for lengthy prison terms were subsequently reduced or pardons given. Akbar Khan found himself a free man by the mid-50s although he was dismissed from the army. He was back as a minister post 1971 in Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto’s government. His Raiders in Kashmir is a bitter diatribe against Pakistan’s government and the army chief, General Ayub Khan, and others for their failure to pursue the Kashmir cause with greater vigour. “Ayub Khan”, he wrote, “could give Pakistan the world’s first Field Marshal without even being in the field.” He went on to cite Ayub’s successor thus: “Yahya could top it by giving India the world’s second one!” — referring, no doubt, to General Sam Manekshaw being designated as Field Marshal for his role in the 1971 operations and military victory. Akbar Khan’s fanciful claims about Kashmir and his giant-sized ego earned him a large share of detractors. Ayub Khan was dismissive of him and those of that ilk, attributing rapid promotions in the new Pakistan army as having raised unwarranted expectations and created a number of ‘Unhappy Bonapartes’. The 1965 war also generated, although much after the event, a few contrarian views. The idea of a glorious victory against a larger army is jealously preserved in Pakistan. In 2002, Lieutenant General Mahmud Ahmed published a detailed history of the 1965 war tellingly entitled Illusion of Victory. This remains possibly the most detailed military history of the 1965 war written in either country. It was, however, never ever distributed or sold in any significant numbers basically because the Pakistan army bought up all its copies to prevent its distribution. The author was also a former DG, ISI and, in fact, held that post when the 9/11 attacks took place in the United States of America. He was to be replaced soon thereafter because of his perceived Islamist leanings and Taliban sympathies. His treatment of 1965 was a realistic, if unwelcome, assessment of Pakistan’s strategic failures: “The greatest casualty of the 1965 War was perhaps our modesty. We prided ourselves over achievements which were doctored for public consumption to boost the national morale. We began to believe what was meant only for the sake of propaganda... The price of undeserved glory was paid barely six years after the 1965 war [when] the bitter harvest of humiliation was reaped in East Pakistan in December 1971.” Relating the 1965 war — to many a high watermark in Pakistan’s history — with the depths of 1971 was a contrarian perspective and marks the author as a dissentient. Incidentally, he was one of the ‘Kargil clique’ — the generals around Pervez Musharraf when that misadventure was planned and executed. General Mahmud Ahmed went on, post retirement, to become a preacher consolidating his reputation as an Islamist general. The 1971 war has been a fertile terrain for literary activity especially from Pakistani military officers. Over the years, most of the principal actors have written their accounts. One of the generals who did so wryly noted, “History, it is often said, ‘is written by victors’. In the case of East Pakistan, it has been written by the losers.” On the whole, however, these are not in the nature of dissident views so much as exculpatory. While there are some others, dissentient narratives from senior military officers in Pakistan have remained relatively rare. This is especially so in the context of the vast literature that the study of the Pakistan army has generated. In large part, this is obviously because the regimen of the military ensures that public articulation of dissidence is rare even long after retirement. Yet, each such contrarian view has generated enormous attention even in the cases when the protagonist is writing a very long time after he had a substantive role as a participant in events. In some significant part, this is because the role of the military in politics in Pakistan and all of its consequences has a timeless quality to it. It is like an endless loop that repeats its crests and troughs. Each high and each low may appear momentarily like a beginning or an end but, in fact, is only one more moment in a rhythmic sequence in some obscure metre. Another well-known military dissentient, Asghar Khan, not a general but an air marshal, gave a title to one of his books that summed it up: We’ve Learnt Nothing From History. The author is a retired diplomat and is currently Director General of the Indian Council of World Affairs||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-104
11-12-2020||Opinion||Alien address: son-of-soil credentials||Faith can move mountains. The Bharatiya Janata Party’s faith in its ability to deepen its roots in Bengal’s political soil has, naysayers would argue, now brought about a tectonic shift in the birthplace of Bengal’s foremost icon, Rabindranath Tagore. The official Twitter handle of the state unit of the BJP recently declared Visva-Bharati, the university that the poet set up, to be the birthplace of Tagore. Of course, none can blame the BJP for trying to prove its son-of-soil credentials in poll-bound Bengal. An organic connection between a political party and the people of a state is known to generate favourable political capital. The Shiv Sena’s hold on the Marathi manoos in Maharashtra, or the electoral success of the two principal Dravidian parties in Tamil Nadu, can be attributed to these political formations being seeped in specific cultural ecosystems. The BJP’s desperation to prove its indigeneity may have something to do with its discomfort with the charge levelled by the ruling Trinamul Congress that the BJP remains unfamiliar with Bengal’s ethos and consciousness. The accusation cannot be dismissed easily. Even though it is true that the Bharatiya Jana Sangh, the BJP’s political ancestor, was founded by a Bengali — the BJS also won parliamentary seats in Bengal — the BJP had not been able to cash in politically on this lineage. The demise of the Left Front and the signs of disaffection with Bengal’s ruling party have now kindled an interest within the BJP to try and belong to Bengal. But is the BJP truly at home in Bengal? Apart from displacing Tagore from Jorasanko, his bona fide birthplace, the BJP has also been credited with vandalizing a bust of Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar, yet another venerated figure in Bengal’s hall of fame. Brushing up on the state’s history — not the history that is peddled by the BJP — may help the party. The culture war that is being waged in Bengal can be expected to intensify as the elections draw near. The sparring goes to show that India remains a federation of states that take great pride in their distinct histories and cultures. The BJP’s political ascendancy has sparked off increasing conflicts between a uniform, unilateral cultural and religious template and diverse regional ethos unwilling to cede their autonomy. An electoral verdict — no matter which way it goes — is unlikely to put an end to this skirmish.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-105
