12-12-2020||Opinion||Dancing in Paris: Breakdance in Olympic Hall of Fame||The news that ‘breaking’ — a popular, cynics would hasten to add ‘plebeian’, dance form — is to be added to the itinerary of Olympic sport in Paris four years from now may well be greeted with strange gyrations — the signature moves of breakdancing — on India’s streets. India has always been the proverbial poor cousin in the global family of Olympic medal-winners. It has been 12 years since the country managed to pocket an Olympic gold. Even though it may be a bit too late for the Indian Olympic Association to get Mithun Chakraborty or Prabhu Deva — India’s Dancing Men — to get ready for the Paris Games, the country should not face a dearth of talented men and women with twinkling feet. Even a cursory glance at a bhashan celebration would prove that scores of Indians can make the right moves. The International Olympic Committee is convinced it is making the right move too. Necessity, as they say, is the mother of invention, and the IOC’s decision has undoubtedly been influenced by the challenge to keep the Olympics relevant to a younger audience with fickle tastes. There is already some concern about modest viewership ratings on account of competition from content on streaming platforms as well as the rising popularity of sporting events within a regional context — the subcontinent’s enchantment with the Indian Premier League is one example. Forced back to the drawing board, the IOC emerged with its ‘Olympic Agenda 2020’, a strategic roadmap that sought to make the Games appealing to modern sensibilities. Breakdance, the IOC deduced, could get the crowds to jive. This is not to suggest that this truly international competition is breaking new ground for the first time. The history of the Olympics is also a history of the induction of the avant-garde. In the 1900, the Games held, again at Paris — the high citadel of the experimental culture — included an unconventional catalogue featuring cannon firing, fishing, pigeon-racing, kite-flying and fire-fighting. Over the years, other ‘demonstration events’ — the medals awarded in these competitions were not part of the official tally — have included ‘bandy’, a crossbreed of ice and field hockey, and the pesapallo — the Finnish baseball. But games, even the not-so-odd ones, doff their proverbial hat to an invisible hierarchy. That explains why some games make the Olympics cut while others remain as pariah. Netball and squash, in spite of intense lobbying, would not get a ticket to Paris. Golf was part of the 1900 Games, then got booted out, only to be reinducted. These crests and troughs in the journeys of individual Olympic sports reveal their vulnerability to commercial as well as cultural imperatives. The Olympics also has a tradition of bridging sport and performance arts. ‘The Art Olympics’ — architecture, music, literature, sculpture and painting being the five ‘games’ — were held along with the Summer Olympics from 1918 to 1942. In that sense, breakdance’s inclusion, even though the puritan stiff upper lip would quiver in horror, in the Olympic Hall of Fame represents a continuity and not a divergence, blurring, yet again, the cosmetic border between sport and artistic performance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-104
12-12-2020||Opinion||Greedy move: Wealthy nations stockpiling Covid vaccine||Sir — It was shameful to read that a study by Duke University in the United States of America has found that wealthy nations are stockpiling the Covid-19 vaccine to the detriment of middle and lower-middle income countries. There is a huge gap between the vaccine-purchasing outcomes of rich nations and developing countries. Canada, for example, has bought enough to vaccinate its whole population five times over. While India has made an advance purchase of the maximum number of Covid-19 vaccines in the world — it has bought 1.6 billion doses — this will only cover 59 per cent of the country’s population. The propensity of wealthy nations — especially those in the West — to appropriate crucial resources for themselves while leaving less powerful nations to their own devices is not surprising, but one would have thought that better sense would prevail at the time of a global pandemic. While it is understandable that any nation would put the interests of its own people before those of others, common sense dictates that at a time like this it is in the interest of every nation to look out for one another, since the spread of Covid can easily affect even those nations that manage to rid itself of the disease once. Short of indefinitely stopping all international travel — which will only spell doom for the global economy, as has already been evident — there is no way to prevent the spread of the contagion apart from ensuring that everyone has equal access to its prevention methods and cures. Privileged nations would do well to remember that. Mani Koshy,Kochi Sir — No event in recent history has been as eagerly awaited as the rolling out of the Covid-19 vaccine. As such, it is regrettable that rich nations are, as usual, wielding their disproportionate power and stockpiling vaccine doses even though they know that this will put poorer economies at a disadvantage. Now is the time for countries around the world to come together and help one another tide over the coronavirus crisis. Richer nations, in fact, should be pooling in their resources to aid speedier production of the vaccine so that there is enough for all nations in the world to buy. Rishiraj Pandey,Lucknow Great help Sir — The toughest times often help give birth to initiatives that benefit the most marginalized members of society. It was heartening to read about the new e-commerce and hiring website that enables the sale of products and services offered by differently-abled citizens. This constituency is heavily discriminated against in India — openly and tacitly — in spite of the existence of laws that ostensibly protect their interests. As a result, such citizens find it difficult to find basic acceptance, let alone proper employment or ways to earn. It is hoped that this new venture will change that. Aranya Ganguly,Calcutta Welcome gesture Sir — The decision of the government of Pakistan’s Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province to purchase the Peshawar houses of the legendary Bollywood actors, Dilip Kumar and Raj Kapoor, to save them from demolition and convert them into national heritage sites and museums is welcome. Peshawar is already known for its rich history. According to the government, the museums will be thrown open to the general public to highlight this history as well as the cinematic contributions of the two Bollywood greats. This gesture of goodwill must be appreciated by all; it is a fitting tribute not only to the actors themselves but also to the world of cinema. It is hoped that, in the future, movie lovers from India will get the chance to visit these places. The gesture also proves that art and culture do not adhere to narrow political and geographical barriers. M. Pradyu,Kannur Sir — The love of cinema binds people on both sides of the border. Will the declaration about the ancestral houses of Raj Kapoor and Dilip Kumar in Peshawar help in thawing relations between India and Pakistan? Rohini Bhowmik,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-104
12-12-2020||Opinion||On your screens soon, The Serpent, the life of Charles Sobhra||Hot on the heels of Vikram Seth’s A Suitable Boy, the BBC is doing another big Indian story, The Serpent, based on the life of the serial killer, Charles Sobhraj. It has announced that the eight-part TV drama, a co-production with Netflix, will begin on New Year’s Day. As with The Crown, Netflix has probably taken “artistic licence” with the tale but there is much about Sobhraj still shrouded in mystery. Depending on who you believe, Sobhraj, born in Saigon on April 6, 1944 to a Sindhi father and a Vietnamese mother and brought up in Paris, murdered between 12 and 24 western hippies. I have been discussing the drama with British-Asian actor, Alyy Khan, who plays Narinder Tuli, “DSP, Crime Branch, New Delhi, who actually caught Charles. Sobhraj was involved in a heist when he tried to steal some diamonds. He took a room at the Ashok Hotel, drilled his way into a jewellery store and seemed to pull off a daring robbery.” Khan is currently living in Karachi but also has homes in London and in Mumbai, where he went to school and college and later did much of his work. He says Sobhraj managed to escape twice from Tihar Jail. Now 76, and in poor health, Sobhraj is serving a life sentence in Kathmandu for two murders. “He’s appealing (as a French national) to President Macron to get him free. He is also threatening to sue Netflix because they haven’t taken his approval for this TV project.” Most of the filming was done in Thailand, with Hua Hin dressed to look like a beach in Goa. Renowned French actor, Tahar Rahim, is playing Sobhraj and Jenna Coleman his girlfriend and accomplice, Marie-Andrée Leclerc. Asked whether Sobhraj was a serial killer, Khan answers without hesitation: “Absolutely.” Mirror image After the deaths of Soumitra Chatterjee and Diego Maradona, what I was thinking was put into words by Debanjan Chakrabarti, director of the British Council in East and Northeast India, during a Zoom meeting organized by the Bengal Heritage Foundation in London: “We have lost Feluda and Maradona in the space of a few days.” Chakrabarti felt he had lost a part of his childhood. Since I had once lived in Buenos Aires (during the Falklands War and subsequently), I was comparing how the two cities were marking the passing of their cultural icons. I had noticed how the emotional Argentines express joy, anger and sorrow by jumping up and down with both hands held straight up in the air. They had done so outside the Casa Rosada (the Pink Palace) when they thought they had won the war against Margaret Thatcher, and did that again when they realized that actually they were the ones who had lost. I turned last week to my one-time interpreter and later close friend in Buenos Aires, Jorge Posse, who painted a less than sentimental picture. He said that Argentina’s populist government had tried to exploit Maradona’s death for its own political advantage. It had opened up the Casa Rosada for Maradona’s lying in state. “But the hooligans reacted very violently against the police and broke everything in their way. There was a lot of alcohol and drugs involved.” Jorge, who is coming to London for Christmas, said he would “tell me more personally”. It seems as though Maradona’s departure was marked in a more dignified way by his fans in Calcutta. Chemical reaction Yusuf Hamied, head of Cipla, is trying to do his bit for India. He extended his support to a collaboration programme backed by the Royal Society to bring top scientists to India, as Venkatraman Ramakrishnan stepped down after five years as its president. “The enhancements to this programme will help us to continue bringing together the best scientists from the UK and India,” said Venki. Meanwhile, the chemistry department at Cambridge University, where Yusuf did his degree and PhD, is being named after him. The university’s vice-chancellor, Stephen Toope, explained that “a university would not rename any department lightly” but the decision was made to recognize his “transformational gift”. Yusuf emphasized that “the work that was done [in the department] in the mid to late 1950s led to [James] Watson and [Francis] Crick developing the double helix structure of DNA”. Afterwards, Yusuf assured me his charitable wing would give the Covid-19 vaccine free of charge to people in India who cannot afford the cost. Cambridge University has given him an honorary doctorate of science for helping to save the lives of 15 million AIDS patients in Africa with “dollar a day” drugs. Guest of honour Although there is no confirmation, I have seen reports suggesting that Boris Johnson might be the chief guest at India’s next Republic Day function. Either way, he has promised to visit India as soon as he can. The Sunday Telegraph ran a three-quarter page piece on how Johnson has done a mega deal with Sunil Bharti Mittal to launch Britain into the space race through OneWeb, a satellite operator. I have noticed that stories about Indians are migrating from the news to the business pages. There is much curiosity about how the steel tycoon, Sanjeev Gupta, dubbed the “saviour of UK steel” finances his acquisitions. He has convinced Prince Charles, who has appointed Gupta as his ‘personal industrial ambassador’. Footnote Turkey “with all the trimmings” remains traditional fare at Christmas. But The Sunday Times is promoting what I have long thought of as a good idea — a “curry for Christmas”. It recommends a “gourmet feast” from Gymkhana, “one of the... most famous and in-demand restaurants”, “for those wanting a change from Christmas staples”. A box for four costs £110 and includes “wild muntjac biryani” and “4 tandoori masala lamb chops” — the latter are probably the best in Britain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-104
12-12-2020||Opinion||Eager to please||Offered West Bengal’s finance ministership, Tulsi Charan Goswami, the brilliant but mercurial Serampore zamindar, laughed that if he managed public money as he did his own, the state would soon be bankrupt. Such levity proclaims generations of idle riches. It is not expected from Rishi Sunak, Britain’s Chancellor of the Exchequer, who has become the richest member of the House of Commons, and whose wife is reportedly richer than Queen Elizabeth. But such wealthy migrants have a special responsibility in this age of migration. That is not reflected in Sunak’s decision to lop about £4 billion off Britain’s £13.4 billion aid budget. A London commentator attributes the cut to political ambition. He says Sunak is wooing Conservative backbenchers who are notoriously impatient with overseas (read Afro-Asian) aid, and regard anything spent on alleviating poverty in these benighted lands as money down the drain. No doubt Sunak hopes they will overlook his dark skin and foreign origins and, remembering only that he went to the exclusive Winchester College and is immensely rich, both of which count rather more than his Oxford degree, rally round him one day to fight Boris Johnson for the party leadership. Sajid Javid was Britain’s first Asian Chancellor. Sadiq Khan is London’s first Asian mayor. If the calculation proves correct, the ethnic Punjabi Chancellor whom newspapers call “Dishy Rishi” and “Maharaja of the Dales” may be Britain’s first Asian prime minister. The achievement would surpass that of Leo Varadkar across the Irish Sea. But one suspects that a specific pinnacle, however glittering, is subsumed in the greater satisfaction of acceptance, if not assimilation, which most immigrants crave. Imitation being the sincerest form of flattery and minorities being by definition insecure, aping or pandering to the majority is only to be expected in mixed societies. Alberto Fujimori, Peru’s ethnic Japanese president for the 1990-2000 decade, may not have subjected himself to eye or nose reshaping surgery but life abounds with the likes of Hari Kumar in Paul Scott’s The Jewel in the Crown, named to enable him to pass off in England — at least on the telephone — as Harry Coomer. It was saddening when another foreign employee in Singapore did not even realize that local colleagues mocked his attempts to enlist for National Service. But if fawning is undignified, so is the other extreme of hostility towards the host society that Indians in Britain, the United States of America and Singapore sometimes affect. Britain’s Conservative party politics offers two other recent examples of immigrant insecurity. Commentators have not stopped ridiculing the Agra-born business, energy and industrial strategy minister, Alok Sharma, who went overboard to applaud Boris Johnson’s highly publicized approval of the anti-Covid-19 vaccine. More loyal than the king and forgetting that Britain is not Uttar Pradesh (or India), Sharma dutifully warbled that the moment would be remembered “as the day the [United Kingdom] led humanity’s charge against this disease”. Innumerable radio callers are still stressing that his fervour is overdone since the vaccine represents international collaboration. Perhaps Britain and Uttar Pradesh (or India) are no longer so different after all. Another Sunak colleague, the controversial home secretary, Priti Patel, is accused of pandering to native racism by deporting more than a dozen black British residents to Jamaica. It may be recalled that she had to resign in November 2017 as Theresa May’s international development secretary because of her unauthorised meetings with Israeli politicians, including Benjamin Netanyahu. That defiance must have made Patel the darling of the right, the influential Jewish lobby, Donald Trump and of course of Johnson who already had his eye on the crown. Now, as probable second in his cabinet’s pecking order, she has won back more on the roundabout than was lost on the swings. Johnson forced his own ethics adviser, Sir Alex Allan, to quit by refusing to sack Patel despite a formal investigation convicting her of bullying civil servants. The crisis first erupted when the home office’s permanent secretary, Sir Philip Rutnam, resigned, accusing Patel of a “vicious and orchestrated briefing campaign” and of ignoring warnings not to “shout and swear at staff”. What is emphatically not Uttar Pradesh (or India) is Singapore. Instances of political sycophancy or slavishness always remind me of the courage the late Lee Kuan Yew displayed in 1976 by rejecting Chinese Premier Hua Guo Feng’s gift of Neville Maxwell’s India’s China War which he felt was partisan. Leaving aside expectations from shared ethnicity, this was a grave rebuff by a tiny city-state to a formidable power, touchy about protocol and prestige. Ethnic Indian members of Singapore’s ruling People’s Action Party who had been clamouring in parliament for what they called “a more realistic reappraisal of relations with China” — meaning full diplomatic ties — would never have dared take such a step. They expected obsequiousness to endear them to the majority Chinese. Suppiah Dhanabalan, a Christian Tamil politician with an ethnic Chinese spouse who was once talked of as Singapore’s first Indian-origin prime minister, lost no opportunity to say that he shuddered at the thought of India’s roads and airports. While the Chinese were always up and about, doing something, Dhanabalan dismissed Indians in India as “always talking, quarrelling, modifying”. Also a child of the diaspora, Sunak can’t be similarly contemptuous: his wife’s fortune comes from her father, N.R. Narayana Murthy, the Infosys founder, whose own worth Forbes estimates at £1.9 billion. Whereas the Queen is worth £350 million, the Sunday Times Rich List values Akshata Sunak’s shareholdings alone at £430 million. Sunak’s own grandparents moved from Punjab to East Africa and then to England. The Chancellor’s father was a general practitioner with the National Health Service, his mother, a pharmacist. “From working in my mum’s tiny chemist shop to my experience building large businesses,” Sunak says, “I have seen first-hand how politicians should support free enterprise and innovation to ensure our future prosperity”. Starting as a Goldman Sachs financier, he has built up a huge fortune. Sunak and Akshata own property worth more than £10 million in Britain and the US. By reducing foreign aid from 0.7 per cent of GDP to 0.5 per cent, he has robbed Britain of the distinction of being one of the few countries in the world to follow the United Nations’ recommendation. But it’s not the money that matters most. What causes far greater concern is the suspicion that he yielded to backbenchers who were already demanding the cut. “In effect we are sponsoring an Indian moon launch” stormed David Davies, an amateur boxer nicknamed ‘The Tory Tornado’. Another Tory MP, Philip Davies, lamented Britain was “spending money in a country that has not only got its own space programme but is developing its own overseas aid programme”. India’s claims to be a net donor and rejection of specific offers of help suggest a self-sufficiency that seems odd in view of the importance New Delhi attaches to employment and residence in Britain and the US. No successful economy needs to export human talent. The world has moved far since Tulsi Goswami’s ancestor, Raghuram, descendant of Advaita Acharya, a Chaitanya disciple and a leading Vaishnavite, offered to buy Serampore from colonial Denmark. The British raj refused permission. Globalization has become a household word since then. Logic indicates it will not be confined forever to goods and services. Manpower has already pushed a foot in the door. The tide is bound to swell. There may be few spectacularly successful Rishi Sunaks in it, but those few owe it to themselves and to the great mass of fellow immigrants to hold their own against the entrenched majority. It’s the only way of ensuring that migration does not destroy self-respect.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-104
