13-12-2020||Opinion||Chinese whisper||It all boils down to lip-sync. And that’s what external affairs spokesperson Anurag Srivastava seemed to be saying last week when he said of India’s continuing standoff with China: “We have taken note of the Chinese side’s statement that it observes ‘strictly the agreements between the two sides and is committed to resolving the border issue through dialogue and safeguarding peace and tranquility’ in the border areas. We expect that the Chinese side will match its words with actions.” When words and actions are out of step, it is a lip sync error. And it is not just a Chinese malaise. So you have a country's top leadership talking about "democracy" and invoking "we, the people...", when the world is witness that hundreds of thousands of farmers belonging to 500 unions are out in the cold protesting farm laws for the third consecutive week. It must be a lip-sync issue because the leadership has pledged on record, "Debate, discussion and dissent are essential parts of democracy", but every time there is debate, dissent or plea for discussion, be it farmers or the women of Shaheen Bagh, the government seems to hear the self-same track --- “Maoist elements”, “anti-national forces”. The ayes have it It is a lip-sync issue or why else would the deputy chairman of Rajya Sabha Harivansh Narayan Singh hear "ayes" when allies and those in Opposition had called for a clear division (vote) on farm bills? And you might remember how when Shaheen Bagh expressed solidarity with Kashmiri Pandits on January 19, filmmaker Vivek Agnihotri heard it as a celebration of the exodus of Kashmiri Pandits from the Valley. Lip-sync error explains why no matter what the visual, when the government tunes in to its people, all it hears is not wails of hunger, anxieties over joblessness, clamour for peace, but roars of nationalism. The visuals are of marching migrants, marching and falling by the way, scattered rotis on the rail-tracks, but the voiceover exhorts “atmanirbhar, atmanirbhar”. Force reboot It is lip-not-in-sync, as the people of Uttar Pradesh will tell you, when love is the proclaimed raison d'être, but the fallout is fractured unions. When you hear Adityanath saying he is committed to ensuring safety of women and yet all you see are reports of a hurried cremation of a gang rape victim. When they call it an election but it feels like a war. But it is not a lip-sync problem when the PM says economic indicators are raising hopes even in a pandemic situation, that recovery is faster than expected and all sectors are looking up, and yet the projected GDP contractions are 9.4 per cent. No Sir. That is the brightness key stuck at a blinding maximum. There is a virus in the system. Force reboot, anyone?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-103
13-12-2020||Opinion||Meat of the matter||Will New India now be haunted by ghosts of dinners past? In a first-of-its-kind study, researchers at the University of Cambridge have analysed lipid residues in ancient ceramic vessels from the Indus Valley civilization to reveal a dominance of animal products like the meat of pigs, buffalo, sheep and goat. Given the polarized political climate, India’s original inhabitant could well be considered a pariah in New India. Such speculations may not be entirely specious. Even hallowed precincts — museums and cultural institutions — are turning their noses up at certain aromas. Earlier this year, non-vegetarian dishes such as fish in turmeric stew and a steaming pot of offal that were part of an exhibition at the National Museum in Delhi on the culinary taste of the Indus Valley civilization were shown the door at the behest of queasy babus mindful of the tastes of their political masters. Those tasked with the project of rewriting Indian history would, however, smell an opportunity. Turning Indus Valley meatless would be a significant achievement for the fraternity that views history not through facts but through ideological lenses. The ideological contamination of cuisine is, of course, a recent phenomenon. Consumption of food and choice of cuisine are inevitably determined by ecological and economic conditions. Consider the tradition of the sale of unproductive, aged cattle by farmers. It generates the necessary capital for farmers to purchase new animals, lowers expenditures and sustains the meat industry that caters to around 70 per cent of India’s population. A blanket ban on cattle slaughter — Karnataka is the latest state to pass such a bill — would disrupt these interconnected networks and intensify hunger among marginalized people for whom meat is an affordable source of protein. This is all the more alarming since a recent survey by Hunger Watch found that there has been a significant decline in the food intake among Dalits, Muslims and backward classes — the primary constituency of meat-eaters — in recent times. India’s battle against malnutrition could well intensify as a result of economic decline and the passage of thoughtless, puritanical legislations. But a majoritarian turn in the political climate is not the only factor that has turned the weather rough for meat-eating communities. They are facing a global ethical backlash: meat-eating, science is arguing, contributes to climate change. The solutions would make the meat-eater drop his platter of beloved kebabs. Singapore has become the first country to approve a “cultured meat” product — flesh-equivalents produced in bio-reactors that do not require the slaughter of an animal. Mutton chnaap could soon make way for, say, soya steak. But not only are these substitutes nutritionally deficient, they also taste nothing like the real stuff. In countries like India that do not depend on mass-produced animal protein — Indians consumed only 3.16 kilogrammes of meat per capita per annum in 2017 compared to Singapore’s 71 kg and America’s 98.6 kg — lab-grown meat, much like bigoted legislations, can disrupt the links that make agriculture sustainable. Leaving a lighter carbon footprint is a laudable goal. However, imposing a unilateral template of consumption is not only antithetical to choice, the kernel of democracy, but also inimical to community health.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-103
13-12-2020||Opinion|| Wily KCR cosying up to BJP, it's party time for Rajnikanth||If politics is the art of the possible, no one possibly practises it better than K Chandrashekar Rao, the chief minister of Telangana and head of the Telangana Rashtra Samithi. The unexpected performance of the Bharatiya Janata Party in the Hyderabad municipal corporation polls seems to have turned on the wily side of Rao. The TRS chief arrived in Delhi on Friday for a three-day visit and went about meeting top BJP ministers. He was photographed presenting a shawl to the home minister, Amit Shah — the same person who, while campaigning in Hyderabad only two weeks earlier, had launched a bitter attack on KCR, as Rao is popularly called, seeking to make the BJP the main challenger to the ruling TRS. Rao is also likely to call on the prime minister, Narendra Modi. Many feel that the BJP could soon emerge as the principal Opposition in the state replacing the Congress. Rao had managed to first befriend the Congress and then bleed the party out in Telangana. Rao had, it is believed, managed to convince the Congress high command that he would merge his party if his demand for the creation of the Telangana state, by bifurcating Andhra Pradesh, were fulfilled. Just ahead of the 2014 general elections, the United Progressive Alliance government agreed to divide Andhra Pradesh. Let alone a merger, Rao went on to finish off the Congress in Telangana. Is he trying to do the same with the rising BJP? The saffron party, however, feels that their leaders are the champions of the game. On the verge of revealing his political colours — Rajinikanth is set to launch a new political party — the Tamil superstar is offering a different food for thought to his supporters in his ‘home city’, Bangalore. The actor-turned-politician would not want to lose the opportunity of testing his popularity beyond Tamil Nadu. The legion of his die-hard fans, who strive hard to ensure that every film of their ‘thalaivar’ clicks at the box office even in Karnataka, could come in handy in his political career. Born in a Marathi-speaking family as Shivaji Rao Gaekwad, raised and having worked in Kannada-speaking Bangalore before making it big in Chennai, Rajinikanth would certainly aim to cash in on his popularity in Karnataka as well. Unsurprisingly, his recent visit to Bangalore to meet his elder brother created quite the buzz, apart from all the optics. The ruling BJP’s stellar performance in the panchayat and municipal polls in Arunachal Pradesh — scheduled for December 22 — without a vote being cast throws light on the growing strength of its consolidation at the grass roots since the party unseated the Congress in 2016. The BJP has won 96 of the 242 zilla parishad posts and 5,410 of the 8,196 gram panchayat posts uncontested,
apart from five of the 58 corporator seats under the Itanagar Municipal Corporation. The results for the uncontested seats also reveal the free fall of the Opposition, the Congress, in the frontier state which had once been its bastion. The response of the political parties also reflects their mindsets. After the results, the BJP radiated positivity, with the chief minister, Pema Khandu, hailing the victory as ‘historic’ and crediting it to the intelligence of the voters and the unprecedented development work going on in the state under the BJP-led government. In contrast, a senior Congress leader told the media that the BJP’s outstanding electoral success was owing to “purchased faith by illegitimate means”. He even went on to attribute the success of the ruling party to the state election commission which conducts the polls, conveying — as political watchers observed — a defeatist and jaded mindset. There has been no talk of ‘looking within’ till now. No wonder the Congress is in what appears to be terminal decline since 2014, in spite of a bright spark here and there. Over the years, HD Kumaraswamy has battled poor health and political pitfalls. A year after he lost power as the BJP poached 17 lawmakers of the Congress-Janata Dal (Secular) coalition, Kumaraswamy seems to have put the past behind him. The second son of the former prime minister, HD Deve Gowda, is on a mission to ‘rebuild’ his party by consolidating its traditional Vokkaliga votes and winning back the trust of Muslims whose support he had pretty much lost on account of his misadventure of allying with the BJP in 2006. As a first step, Kumaraswamy called on his former party colleague, CM Ibrahim, of the Congress. The message was loud and clear: return to the JD(S) and be its Muslim face. Many in the JD(S) feel that Ibrahim would take the offer since he has been virtually sidelined in the Congress. Punjabi pop has become a staple of Indian weddings, particularly in the North. Now, it seems, the farmers’ protests are becoming just as infectious, to the extent that showing support to the movement has become a fad in Haryana and Punjab. Wedding cars now bear banners of solidarity with the protests along with the usual frills. Some families are requesting guests to donate what they would give as wedding gifts for the farmers’ protests. Such is the connect.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-103
13-12-2020||Opinion||Radio days||Home-bound during the pandemic, I’ve rediscovered the radio. As newspapers, with a couple of honourable exceptions, merge into an all-India chorus conducted by the Central government and as television news channels race against each other to make performative sycophancy a competitive sport, internet radio has become a sanity-dispensing machine. The last time the radio was so important to me was more than half a century ago when its monopoly of broadcast news and entertainment made it a necessary part of the desi day. Radio Ceylon, Vividh Bharati, the radio plays on Hawa Mahal, the commercials in between song requests, Ameen Sayani’s magical voice on Binaca Geetmala, the news on the hour with Surajit Sen gruffly going, ‘This is All India Radio, the news read by...’ together made up the soundtrack of our lives. Literally. Anubhav, released in 1971, featured Tanuja and Sanjeev Kumar playing a young couple in a fraught marriage, and it was much praised for its everyday realism because Akashvani’s radio commercials played constantly in the background. One difference between then and now is that the online radio I listen to doesn’t involve fiddling with tuning knobs. It’s available online and via a bit of magic that I never tire of, I can ask a smart speaker to play BBC Radio 5 Live and it will. The BBC is going through a difficult time; the ruling Tories dislike it because they think it’s too liberal and politically correct and doesn’t give conservatives equal time. They want to cancel the license fee and argue, plausibly, that in a world dominated by 24-hour news channels and private subscription services like Netflix and Amazon Prime and HBO, a public broadcaster has no sacred right to an anti-competitive subsidy. Sitting in Delhi, listening to the BBC’s hosts lead conversations about Brexit even as the British prime minister flits between Brussels and London, I know that the critics are wrong. The case for the BBC, which is to say the case for an autonomous, non-partisan, publicly funded broadcaster, is best made by looking at the real-world consequences of not having one. Take the farmers’ protests against the new agriculture laws passed by the Central government. It is obvious that we would be better informed about the issues involved if we had a credible, autonomous public broadcaster capable of organizing discussions and phone-ins and debates in which netas, kisans and the general public could have their say. There are critics of the Narendra Modi government who think that some parts of the new laws are good for farmers in the long run; there are partisans of the Bharatiya Janata Party who think that the government didn’t consult enough before putting the bills to vote; there are others who think these laws are a stratagem to sell Indian agriculture, cheap, to the prime minister’s capitalist cronies and yet others who think that the mandis and minimum support prices merely coddle a class of rich kulaks. There is no forum in which these views are coherently exchanged. That forum can’t be a newspaper, however open it might be to differing political views. Print as a medium is less accessible and, in a country like India, less democratic than the radio. Because people can listen to the radio while doing something else, it is the perfect medium for the mythical public square where citizens talk out their concerns. It can’t be done on television; it has to be aural so that people can be possessed while not paying attention. The BBC is the world’s largest argument for centrism. Publicly mandated to talk out everything in a rhetorically even-handed way, the BBC’s real charter is to sustain mainstream chat that keeps people centered. The BBC is a national conversation and everyone listens in occasionally if only because they pay the licence fee. They overhear arguments about the potential of Brexit, the dangers of vaccination and the prospect of Scotland seceding. First-rate public broadcasting normalizes disagreement. It is not just the medium, it is the mandate. American shock-jock stations demonstrate that it is perfectly possible to be toxic on the radio. During the last British general election, Jeremy Corbyn’s supporters were convinced (with some reason) that the BBC’s political editor, Laura Kuenssberg, was prejudiced against their man. After the election, the BBC’s director-general might have pointed to the Conservative government’s determination to undermine the licence fee as evidence of the BBC’s even-handedness. The bland two-side-ism that so agitates sincere partisans is a necessary formula for broadcasting sanity. It is like a tanpura drone that tells the listener that there is some baseline of truth on which variations are being played. When the drone disappears, all you have is noise, like American talk radio or Indian jock television. The idea that there is an agreed-on common sense that ought to constrain angry rhetoric seems, in good times, like willed blandness; in bad times, like the present moment, the reality of a non-partisan public broadcaster paid for by citizens is a rock on which you might build democracy’s church. This doesn’t mean that a country’s political culture should consist of centrist broadcasters. In England you have papers like The Telegraph, The Spectator and the Daily Mail that rage for a no-deal Brexit and Unionism and rage against Black Lives Matter and every other form of ‘wokeness’ without restraint. And they have their counterparts on the Left. But in the run-up to an election, on the eve of a referendum, in the middle of a controversy on trans rights, the twain do meet... in the BBC’s studios to talk civilly about their disagreements. And they do this because they recognize that the BBC is ideologically neutral ground. It isn’t just journalists and pundits who argue on the BBC; the way public opinion is broadcast, the way the BBC’s hosts canvas public opinion is a lesson in how curiosity and tact can be combined. They flag themes, have people call in, ask their callers potentially provocative questions and yet manage to conduct rolling conversations while steering callers away from bad-tempered ranting. Think of how All India Radio might have covered the farmer’s protest if Prasar Bharati, India’s ‘autonomous’ broadcasting corporation, had been a neutral broadcaster instead of a neutered one. Between Amit Shah’s dissembling, the Akali Dal’s bid to re-invent itself as a critic of the BJP, Rahul Gandhi desperation to make something of the opportunity, the views of contending economists and the testimony of the farmers dug in for the long haul on Delhi’s borders, we could have had riveting radio. But that ship has sailed. What we do have, as a long shot alternative, is the prospect of another kind of BBC, a Bespoke Broadcasting Service that we might create by occupying the airwaves, one podcast at a time, till we have a critical mass of independent voices doing what they can to redress a zombie public broadcaster’s failure to do its job. mukulkesavan@hotmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-103
13-12-2020||Opinion||The moving finger fights||This is going to take some time, and this may be more difficult than can be imagined at this moment. This may not be able to go all the way, down the cascading length of this column, no, of that I cannot be sure. There can be no guarantee this will go to the end, this medley of letters and words and the act of arranging them in a way that it becomes possible for some to make sense of; for some, no more, and most certainly not for all. To expect for it to make sense to all would be too ambitious. Even an Act of God would not aspire to make sense to all. But now the arrangement of letters and words into some form of sense and sentence has become tougher than it was before. My finger, you see, has been banned; it is no longer legal for me to use it. So I am using other things, it is a work in progress, learning how to manage without fingers. Fingers have their uses, anybody will tell you that. Sometimes the mere show of a finger is tantamount to the use of it. Do nothing with a finger, just show it. It can get people all worked up; a batsman at the crease shown a finger, for instance, by the umpire. Fingered. Gone. Fingers do other things. For the self, and often, for the other. Good things, and not so good things. Don’t underestimate them, these things called fingers, they can punch way, way above their weight. What would a finger be? Well below the decimal points of the entire mass of your being, a foldable fraction of your bodily deportment? A finger, it is barely even able to cast a shadow unless commanded to flex and stretch. But never underestimate a finger, a finger can trigger a killer bullet, a finger can send you to the gallows. Fingers are able to achieve feats in astounding exaggeration of what their size might suggest. Let’s not talk about all of those things. Let’s leave some of those things to your imagination, if you have such a thing. Imagine what other things fingers can do. Fingers hold. Fingers wiggle. Fingers point. Fingers can poke. Fingers can summon. Fingers can dismiss. Fingers wag. Fingers can be crossed. Fingers can turn into a grip and that grip can help or harm. Fingers can turn into a fist and then they can box you out on your ear. Fingers can also pick you up. Fingers dip. Fingers fish out. Fingers have tips and tiny as they may be, and it is possible to have many things on those fingertips. Including just plain tips. For what reason, or for which of those functions, I have not yet been told, but my finger has been banned. In pursuance of provisions against the established ill-effects of the unfettered use of fingers, you are henceforth banned the use of your fingers, or some such thing the order said, without going into any specifics of which errant act was the offending one. It offends me, that order, but such is its nature that I may not even show a finger to it. And so the going is slow and the going is tough. This, the function of filling up this space, is a finger job, when you come down to the basics of how this space is filled week after week. It’s fundamentally a finger thing. But some think it is fingering, and therefore, perhaps, they have thought it wise to ban it. Who knows? They are banning everything. And then they make a law that would say the ban is just. If somebody raises a finger and wishes to ask under what law, that is. The day they ban birds from flying, they will have put in place a law saying henceforth the snipping and snapping of wings is a patriotic act and anyone not snipping or snapping birds’ wings is in violation of their fundamental duty. They got the recipe, they know just how to do it, and do it for purpose and for pleasure. Chuck into the blender
Lime, garlic and ginger
For kicks, get that offender
And fling in his wagging finger.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-104
13-12-2020||Opinion||Immortal role: Chadwick Boseman's Black Panther||Sir — There can be no doubt that Chadwick Boseman immortalized the role of the Black Panther on screen. But for Marvel to say that the role will not be recast is a huge loss not just for fans of the Black Panther but also the world of superheroes, which is dominated by white males. Even if comic books have made place for a diverse cast of characters, not all of them have found representation on the big screen. Boseman was one of the few to break that ceiling. Surely he would have wanted another black actor of merit to carry forward his legacy? After all, the show must go on. S. Bhattacharjee,
Calcutta Sir — The article, “An older root” (Dec 10), by the renowned columnist, Swapan Dasgupta, makes for interesting reading. As is his wont, Dasgupta cleverly based his article on the only quality of the Bharatiya Janata Party-Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh combine: Hindutva. He has gift-wrapped Hindutva in terms of Hindu nationalism personified by icons like Bankim Chandra Chatterjee, Swami Vivekananda, Sri Aurobindo and Bipin Chandra Pal. However, he deliberately does not dwell upon the fact that Hinduism as preached by these icons was based on uncompromising inclusiveness as opposed to the bigoted, warped and divisive version of the Hindutva clan. Dasgupta has tried to camouflage the deeply flawed and jingoistic Hindutva agenda by dropping names of Bengali cultural icons. Unsurprisingly, the name of Shyama Prasad Mookerjee, the founder of the Bharatiya Jana Sangh, the precursor of the BJP, comes up. One wonders, though, why Dasgupta chose not to mention Nirmal Chandra Chatterjee, one-time president of the Hindu Mahasabha. Is it because he stood out for representing Hinduism without being dogmatic or bigoted? Dasgupta has successfully disguised his deeply imbedded dislike for the largest minority community with his oblique remarks about the apparent impact of Gandhian thinking, which, allegedly, Bengali Hindus failed to come to terms with because of the so-called “Muslim question”. This is a rather blatant example of Dasgupta’s divisive thinking. It remains to be seen which way the voters of Bengal would turn in the forthcoming assembly elections. In my opinion, the wishful thinking of the legions of detractors of the present dispensation that Bengal will be saffronized is likely to come to nought. The saffron party is likely to garner a fairly reasonable number of seats at the hustings, but that hopefully would not thwart the chances of the present dispensation from getting an absolute majority on its own, according a quiet burial to the saffron brand of Hindutva. Dipak Banerjee,Calcutta Sir — To navigate West Bengal’s political labyrinth, Swapan Dasgupta boasts of Bengali exceptionalism and erases out deliberate strands in “An older root”. He seems to dig up before readers West Bengal’s soft corner for identity politics. This is similar to when the BJP says it is taking cognizance of anarchy and sponsored violence in the state. These are attempts to create a narrative that is part of a calculated strategy — playing victim might be an ongoing campaign strategy till the assembly polls. Reinterpreting Bengal’s history is part of a concerted effort to create a collage of Bengal’s political psyche filled with opacities. The BJP’s confidence stems from a 40.2 per cent vote share in Lok Sabha 2019, only 3 per cent less than the ruling party in West Bengal. With the Bihar elections acting as a morale booster and the prospect of a probable Congress-Left alliance eating into the Trinamul Congress’s vote share, the party’s satraps can afford to be optimistic. But for the BJP to wrest Bengal, such strategies will not be enough. C. Haldar,Calcutta Sir — Swapan Dasgupta’s insidious design to present a skewed version of truth fools no one. Bengal has a rich culture of assimilation, inclusiveness and religious fraternity. Neither the saffron party’s political posturing nor Dasgupta’s cleverly crafted history will change that. Akash Chatterjee,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-104
