14-12-2020||Opinion||Dreaded call: Zoom anxiety||The challenges to mental health seem to have intensified, taking on newer forms in the course of the global contagion. This grave reality was highlighted recently in a survey conducted by an agency based in the United Kingdom, which found that almost 75 per cent of the respondents had experienced ‘Zoom anxiety’ — a phrase used to describe the distress that is experienced while having to be part of video calls. This phenomenon is not restricted to the UK. The use of Zoom and other such digital communications by employers, political parties, educational institutions and countless individuals has soared across the world especially after national lockdowns were put in place to check the spread of Covid-19, forcing some constituencies of workers and students to work and study from home, respectively. But raising a firewall against threats to physical health has had adverse consequences for mental health. Earlier this year, researchers in Australia found that psychological suffering in adults, including symptoms of depression and anxiety, was markedly elevated during the peak of the coronavirus outbreak. Mental health experts from India’s National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences have said that professionals trying to adapt to the ‘new normal’ may be at particular risk from digital burnout. These concerns are not without basis. Online meetings require more attention, aggravating the stress of participants. The health consequences — for body and mind — of such hyper-connectivity, with little or no balance between the time spent in online and offline activities, merit scrutiny. The collapse of the boundaries between home and work is extracting a heavy cost from working women who are being forced to juggle multiple responsibilities — work from home, child-rearing and household chores — all at the same time. The Workforce Confidence Index survey has, in fact, underlined the disproportionate burden of the stress between men and women. It is thus important to examine ways in which India’s mental healthcare apparatus can deal with this new challenge, given that the reliance on technology is expected to be considerable in employment and education in the days to come. Mental illness in India is yet to be recognized as a significant contributor to poor health. This is reflected in the skewed ratio between patients and mental health professionals — India has 0.75 psychiatrists per 1,00,000 people — the closed nature of mental healthcare institutions, and the appalling treatment meted out to patients in spite of the concerns expressed by the courts, medical professionals and the media. There is a strong case to be made not only for incorporating provisions for recognizing newer forms of anxiety in the Mental Healthcare Act, 2017 but also to foster public engagement with matters of the mind.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-103
14-12-2020||Opinion||Unmatched taste: Palong shaak er ghonto||Sir — With the arrival of winter, the markets have been flooded with fresh produce like spinach and mustard greens. Yet, the kitchens of urban Calcutta seem more interested in cooking palak paneer and sarson da saag — delicious items no doubt — than the more nutritious (and tastier) palong shaak er ghonto or alu bori diye shorshe shaak. The once-common dheki and pui shaak are almost unheard of now. The profusion of restaurants selling North Indian food has perhaps changed the palate of the next generation of Bengalis forever. Can anything beat the taste of piping hot rice with palong shaak er ghonto and a touch of ghee? A. Sanyal, Siliguri Year of losses Sir — The year, 2020, will be remembered as one in which the world of football has been left impoverished. India lost Pradip Kumar Banerjee and Subimal (Chuni) Goswami, and world soccer weeps at the loss of one of it’s all time greats, Diego Maradona, and now the Italian football legend, Paolo Rossi, who died at the age of 64. In 1980, at the age of 23, when he was one of the world’s highest-paid players Rossi had been banned from soccer for three years after a match-fixing scandal, known as the Totonero (black-betting). This is a charge Rossi furiously denied, he maintained he had been dragged into a scandal and that his only mistake had been to allow himself to be introduced by a teammate, Mauro Della Martira, to two strangers one day at Perugia’s training facility. Rossi’s ban was reduced to two years, by which time he had been signed by Juventus, allowing his Italy manager, Enzo Bearzot, to include him in his 1982 World Cup squad. From here, there was no looking back for Rossi; he helped the Italian team to victory in the 1982 World Cup and scored the first goal for the Azzurri in the final against West Germany as Italy triumphed 3-1. He became the only footballer in history to win the World Cup, the Golden Boot, the Golden Ball and Ballon d’Or in the same year. Many opponents described Rossi as “pure phosphorus”, because of his agility on his feet. In his career Rossi scored more than 150 goals, but the most memorable will be when he scored all three goals as Italy beat Brazil 3-2 in the 1982 World Cup quarter final, which many soccer writers have called the greatest World Cup match ever. After Rossi retired in 1987, he became a popular TV soccer pundit on Sky Sports and the Italian national broadcaster RAI. May the legend rest in peace.Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee,Faridabad Sir — It was saddening to learn that the Italian footballer, Paolo Rossi, died at the age of 64. He single-handedly helped the Italian football team to victory in the Fifa World Cup of 1982. His timing, energy and ability to score made Rossi a footballing superstar. But the three-year ban on him by the Italian Football Federation left a long shadow on his career. However, given his talent, it could not stand in the way of his success. He will of course be remembered most for his hat-trick against Brazil in 1982, where the latter were the favourites to lift the World Cup. Rossi may no longer be with us but his games and his talent will keep him in our hearts for a long time to come. Jayanta Datta,Hooghly Sir — Within a month, the world of football has lost the legendary footballers, Diego Maradona and Paolo Rossi.This brilliant forward was always considered as one of the greatest strikers in the history of the sport. To be honest, Italy has produced few footballers of Rossi’s talent. His contribution to Italian football is immense. In the year 1982, he led his country to a World Cup win. Rossi mesmerized football lovers all over the world that year. His loss is thus being felt not just by Italians but by football fans across the globe. Real admirers of the sport would never forget Rossi.Sourish Misra,Calcutta Sir — Paolo Rossi was undoubtedly a gifted player. But what made him a national hero was the fact that when he gave Italy a leg up in the 1982 World Cup, the nation had been subject to significant social and political unrest for a number of years and, in spite of being regarded as one of the world’s premier footballing nations, had not won a World Cup since 1938. With the victory came an incalculable lift in the nation’s spirits, and Rossi was at the centre of the celebrations. Rossi scored more than 150 goals in his career but in order to understand his brilliance one would have to watch the goal he scored in the 1982 World Cup final. Aditya Banerjee,Gurgaon Parting shot Sir — It is great news that breakdancing has been included as a medal event in the 2024 Paris Olympics (“Dancing in Paris”, Dec 12). Seeds for this were sown at the Buenos Aires Youth Olympic Games in 2018 where this event gained massive popularity. Although people may not agree with breakdancing being part of the biggest sporting event on the planet, they must remember that change is the only constant. What is more heartening is the fact that thousands across many countries will be able to participate. Hopefully India will also produce some world class breakdancers. Bal Govind,Noida||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-103
14-12-2020||Opinion||Lawless use: NSA, UAPA||This is not the first time that the Allahabad High Court has admonished the State for the misuse of the National Security Act, 1980. Last September, the high court had released the doctor, Kafeel Khan, detained under the NSA for allegedly ‘inciting hatred’ in a speech. The court had shown that Mr Khan’s remarks had been taken out of context, and had criticized the authorities for having applied the NSA on a ‘whim’. Clearly, even such a sharp admonishment from the high court has left the administration unfazed. This time, the Allahabad High Court quashed the order of detention of Javed Siddiqui, arrested under the NSA for alleged arson and rioting during a clash. The court focused on the violation of procedure: the representation of the accused, although submitted within the stipulated time, lay with the state government till two days after the advisory board had approved of the detention; then it was rejected. The court thus established its point that the history of personal liberty is largely the history of the insistence on observing procedural safeguards. The NSA, invoked for those who allegedly threaten security and public order, provides for preventive, not punitive, detention. Without procedure, it becomes an arbitrary deprivation of liberty. The steps of the violation as laid out by the court suggest, unfortunately, not carelessness but practice. This is precisely contrary to the Allahabad High Court’s most important statement in this case: when the law gives the executive ‘extraordinary power’ to detain someone without recourse to usual laws or legal trial, the executive must exercise the power with “extreme care”. Yet the NSA is being applied extensively, particularly in Uttar Pradesh although not there alone, to people charged with cow slaughter and those protesting against the new citizenship laws. This is a flagrant abuse of power intended to create fear in a particular community and among dissenters, for even if nothing can be proved — as has repeatedly been the case — the NSA allows detention for 12 months. Laws with a similar thrust, such as the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, are being used with similar intentions throughout the country. The Allahabad High Court’s clarion call for justice comes when it is sorely needed. It is up to the people to ensure that it is effective.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-103
14-12-2020||Opinion||Code red: labour, wages, security||In September, Parliament gave its nod to three new labour codes in addition to the wage code already approved in August 2019 to promote labour reforms. The codes essentially deal with wages, industrial relations, social security, safety, and working conditions of workers. India’s female labour participation rate — one of the lowest in the world — has been on a precipitous decline. It was widely expected that the labour codes would offer a comprehensive approach in addressing this festering crisis that has been intensified by the pandemic. The female labour force contracted by about 2.4 million between January-April and May-August 2020 (as per CMIE’s unemployment surveys). Whether these laws succeed in tackling the problems that impede female workforce participation is a question that is well worth pondering. In India, the female labour force is largely concentrated in the informal sector with 95 per cent (around 195 million) of women working in informal jobs. Those employed in the sector are largely deprived of basic social security provisions, such as fixed minimum wages, insurance, maternity and pension benefits and so on. This makes them more vulnerable to job losses. As per CMIE data, in April 2020, in the immediate aftermath of the lockdown, 122 million jobs were lost out of which 91 million were in the informal sector. Women, evidently, bore the brunt of these job losses. Asha (Accredited Social Health Activist) workers and anganwadi workers have been indispensable during the pandemic. Even though the Code on Social Security, 2020 aims to include formal and informal sectors under a social safety net, it excludes several categories of workers, including Asha and anganwadi workers, denying them the basic rights and protection of social security. The Code on Wages, too, has left this constituency out of its coverage, depriving employees of a fixed minimum wage. The care economy is massively under-provided in India with just 1.7 care workers (nurses and midwives) per 1,000 people as per World Bank estimates. This sector has a huge potential to generate employment, particularly for women. The lack of social security is not only a severe handicap for those currently employed in this sector but also a deterrent for women seeking employment as care workers. The inaccessibility of formal sector jobs to women can be attributed to the lack of opportunities, absence of necessary training platforms, a safe work environment and entrenched gender inequities in terms of wide gaps in payment. In a bid to create greater employment opportunities, the Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code, 2020 entitles women to be employed in all establishments, for all types of work. In case of potentially hazardous or dangerous operations, the government is expected to direct the employers to implement adequate safeguards. It also enables women to work, with their consent, night shifts. The Code on Wages, 2019 prohibits gender-based discrimination in matters relating to wages by an employer and promotes equal pay for equal work. Although these are welcome steps, the responsibility of fulfilling these stipulations has been placed entirely on the employer. There is no clarity on how the accountability of the employer is to be ensured, especially in the case of a violation, in providing safe working conditions, transportation for nightshifts and security, preventing gender discrimination in wages, and paying additional wages for overtime work. The virtual world, too, poses serious threats with online sexual harassment on the rise. The labour codes remain grossly inadequate in terms of laying out specialized initiatives for addressing online harassment, remedial measures to minimize gender disparities in wages, and provisions of skill enhancement platforms for women to move towards jobs in sectors of growth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-103
14-12-2020||Opinion||Contrasting fates||Contrasts between India and China are commonplace and they also apply to debates on the future of the global environment. One key aspect that is rarely discussed is the record of these societies in achieving peace with the non-human inhabitants of their lands and waters. Both countries are among the 12 nation states with the maximum terrestrial biodiversity and between them they also account for 40 per cent of the earth’s people. Can their long and rich history offer any clues about the choices for the future? The animal that offers rich insights is the saga of elephants in the two countries. Thomas Trautmann authored an essay in 1982 simply titled “Elephants and the Mauryas”. The empire founded by Chandragupta nearly 2,300 years ago rested in part on its ability to capture, train and deploy elephants in warfare. This was not a new discovery: what was new was his location of the eight hastivanas, or Elephant Forests, which were under imperial protection. In a more recent work, Elephants and Kings, he elaborates on the wider implications for the human-animal relationship. To secure elephants for war, kings and emperors had to take control of forests where they lived and bred. As the forest became critical to kingly power, the forest peoples were enlisted in a subordinate role to help protect the tuskers from being poached for ivory and also to trap and train adult elephants for war. This relation of forest and elephant, forest people and kingly power, was not confined to India although it began here. It was picked up by the Greeks in the wake of Alexander and transmitted across West Asia. Two thousand years ago, even Syria had wild elephants and these too were caught and used in war. Such practices had even wider currency across Southeast Asia. Burma, Thailand, Indo-China, the Malay world and Indonesia all had a special place for elephants in warfare and transport. The close association with the animals also made them central to lore and legend, religion and ritual. The care and upkeep of elephants and even remedies for ailments were as crucial as those for men in armies and the horses that were used in transport. The elephant was more than a mobile fighting machine: its personality and emotional intelligence were subjects of celebration. They remain so to this day long after the war elephant has passed into history. The species no longer exists in countries to the west of India where the numbers were never large. But the notable contrast was between South as well as Southeast Asia and China. As Mark Elvin has argued, there was an inverse relationship between the Han Chinese settlements (and their rice paddies) and the existence of elephants. The spread of cultivation was often accompanied, if not preceded, by the annihilation of elephants. Elvin goes so far as to speak of a 3,000-year war with nature in China in which the destruction of the elephant was central to human conquest and domination of the landscape. Not all humans were complicit: the tribal people of southwest China (where a few elephants still survive) had ritual and religious associations with the animal. For most other Chinese, the great beast was an antagonist, not an ally of State formation. The density of numbers of elephants in much of China was low but as Elvin shows the range was once vast. Two contrasts seem clear in the long-term histories of Southern Asia and China. China’s elephants were sometimes tamed and used for ceremonial purposes, but not on battlefields. Those in power in South and Southeast Asia had reason to keep herds alive and some habitats intact. The Arthashastra was clear on the punishment to be meted out to an elephant poacher: the death sentence. The second is a related point. Except among hill and tribal people in South Asia, elephants were not and are not killed for food. By contrast, Chinese delicacies included the trunk of the animal, with the recipe being recorded by scribes. It is equally interesting that except for a brief period — during the rule by the East India Company — elephants were not hunted or shot in India. The relatively short phase of sport hunting came to an end in 1873 in Madras Presidency that passed an elephant preservation Act. A similar enactment was made for all of British India six years later. These laws allowed for shooting in self-defence and also by tea or coffee planters in Assam and in the south, but it was still a legislation of global significance. Individual animals could be a threat if they turned rogue and were trapped or killed. It would be anachronistic to imagine a species being preserved in the 21st century sense. It was not under total protection to live its life in the wild. In fact, the aim was to secure supplies for war and more so for timber work. This was long before any large wild mammal was placed under State protection in North America, Europe or Japan. In contrast, England protected the grey seal only from 1911 and it was only around 1900 that the United States of America and Canada took steps to save the American bison from extinction. The Asian elephant’s saga of service in warfare continued into the 20th century. Over 3,000 elephants from India and Burma were deployed in the Second World War under the command of the man who would later serve as the last British Viceroy: Lord Mountbatten. Elephants were used for carriage of supplies by Viet Minh fighters on the Ho Chi Minh trail in the decade-long Vietnam War. These creatures were even targeted by the US air force as alien combatants. Elephants were victims of war across the ages but in the main their strategic value over two millennia gave the species a unique place vis-à-vis successive rulers. But any comparison of the two great Asian giants, India and China, has to take account of not only their present challenges and opportunities but also the longer record. China lost almost all its elephants to a combined offensive of peasant subjects and imperial states. About 300 survive in the southern Yunnan province, remnants of past glory. In comparison, there are 28,000 wild elephants in India. In India, the role of the same species in warfare, transport and forest work earned it a lease of life well into the modern era. This was largely true in much of Southeast Asia as well. Habitats in India have shrunk despite protection. The recent proposal of the Uttarakhand government to de-notify the elephant reserve in the state may endanger the western most population of this majestic creature in India and indeed Asia. Such steps need to be rethought and soon. Indian approaches saw the State and local producers make spaces for nature. Chinese State-building meant annihilation of animals seen as an adversary to economic growth and consolidation of political authority. This is a case of contrasting histories worth a critical look in our own times. The author teaches History and Environmental Studies at Ashoka University||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-103
