15-12-2020||Opinion||Climate cloud: Paris pact and more||Five years are enough to compile a report card on global action to mitigate climate change. The legally binding climate pact in Paris was adopted by as many as 196 countries in December 2015; it is, therefore, important to underline the silver linings — if any — without taking eyes off the darkening clouds. There is cause for some optimism. The United States of America is set to re-enter the pact under a new president and this welcome move, given the US’s resources and technological capital, it can be hoped, would bolster concrete policy interventions. India has been among the handful of performers: the Climate Change Performance Index, which assesses performance on the basis of the directives established in the Paris agreement, ranked India among the top 10 countries. A report by the United Nations Environment Programme has found that carbon dioxide emissions are expected to fall by 7 per cent globally this year. But that is where the good news ends; the planet’s prognosis remains grim. The expected decrease in carbon emission in 2020 is more the result of Covid-19-induced reductions in industrial activity than meaningful climate action; the first three positions in the CCPI were left blank since none of the nations managed to meet the target goals that are, incidentally, voluntary; scientists predict that the world is headed towards a three degree Celsius rise in temperature, far above the permissible levels of sustenance. There is bad news for India too. In spite of its efforts — the prime minister assured recently that the country will exceed its climate goals — a report by the Council on Energy, Environment and Water found that 75 per cent of the nation’s districts, home to over 60 crore people, are likely to experience extreme climatic events. The paucity of funds, creaky infrastructure and the spectre of the displacement of thousands of climate refugees would make it nearly impossible for India to contain the crisis on its own. International cooperation, however, is unlikely to materialize soon. That is because global climate negotiations remain hobbled by the failure of the international fraternity to arrive at a consensus on a number of prickly issues. Financing the climate actions of developing nations, the transfer of technology from wealthy nations for the purpose as well as the latter’s stubbornness in accepting their disproportionate share of responsibilities are some of the areas of contention. The planet and its species are feeling the heat for this criminal apathy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-102
15-12-2020||Opinion||Noble flights: a new parliament||Foundation stones are being laid at the drop of a hat throughout the people’s struggle with a pandemic and its fallout. Recently, the prime minister laid the foundation stone of the new Parliament complex, a project so deeply etched into an imagined history of the future that Narendra Modi refused to delay it amid countrywide distress, unemployment, a struggling healthcare system, an economic crisis, the Opposition’s objections and the Supreme Court’s caution. Also, just when thousands of farmers are walking to Delhi in protest against the new farm laws, bludgeoned through Parliament — the old building — like many other legislations since 2014. As Mr Modi perorated nobly on democracy while inaugurating a project that will cost crores of public money to complete, a glance back toward the earlier stone-laying ceremony may seem relevant. Then the prime minister inaugurated the building of a Ram temple in place of the destroyed Babri Masjid. Democratic ideals are being re-laid, perhaps? Different views empower India’s vibrant democracy, according to Mr Modi’s speech. In case sceptics felt that this represented a greater than usual disconnect from reality even for the prime minister with the prisons overflowing with protesters and activists jailed for sedition, terrorist activities and so on, Mr Modi carefully established that India was democratic in its soul: for Indians, democracy was a way of living. For example, not only ancient texts but various kingdoms, too, exhibited democratic principles — one being called a republic, another evolving the notion of the panchayat while words such as samiti and sabha were in use even then. It was hardly surprising that Mr Modi’s elevating speech should remind listeners that these India-born practices and texts predated the Magna Carta and Western ideals of democracy, and that it was an irony of the times that India’s democracy should now be assessed through a Western prism. This approach to democracy is not just patriotically energizing, it is comfortable too. It quietly removes India’s so-called democratic markers — such as Mr Modi’s claim that here differences are resolved through governance — neatly out of critical scrutiny. As a Parliament is built to celebrate this unique democracy, the prime minister’s promise, that the world will see India as the mother of democracy, may come true. The fate of the mother in India is traditionally tragic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-102
15-12-2020||Opinion||One pandemic unmasking another||Amidst the great excitement around the phase-three trials of a number of vaccines throughout the world as well as in India, we must not forget what this new tiny spiky virus has taught us about ourselves over the last one year. Covid-19 has already claimed more than 1.5 million lives worldwide out of more than 67 million registered cases. The global case fatality rate is hovering around 2.3 per cent. India has registered close to 140,000 deaths out of close to 10 million cases. Yes, the case fatality rate in India is indubitably much lower -- around 1.5 per cent as compared to the global data. A number of causal conjectures have been laid out and are being explored by scientists, mostly based on the age-old “hygiene hypothesis”, which says a life history replete with exposure to a variety of infectious agents makes the immune system more efficient in dealing with new infections -- the so-called “trained immunity”. The sub-tropical biodiversity as well as a social life closer to nature compared to the West are also being explored as plausible explanations. This is definitely good news for us Indians. But there is also some bad news lurking as we delve deeper into the details of those who are dying of the coronavirus and of those who are at a higher risk of contracting it. Why do people die from Covid-19 and to what extent is the virus itself responsible for these untoward outcomes? The symptoms that patients who were able to realise they had come down with Covid presented at clinics around the world have led to the description of this disease in two distinct phases. Most of the symptomatic patients suffer from mild flu-like symptoms with fever, malaise or at times brief episodes of diarrhoea, followed by uneventful recoveries. Physicians have named this “mild Covid.” Some patients progress to the second phase of the disease, a more severe one, in which their lungs fail to deliver sufficient oxygen to the circulation, leading to falling oxygen saturation levels in the blood. As a result, most of these patients feel distressing shortness of breath and require immediate oxygen therapy. An even more dangerous situation arises in some patients as they never feel any drop in their oxygen saturation levels. Doctors have termed this condition “happy hypoxia”. Unless oxygen saturation in the blood is measured, for example, using a finger-clip device called a pulse oximeter, this cannot be detected until very late. This acute respiratory distress syndrome is what precedes most of the fatal outcomes in Covid-19 and this later phase of the disease is referred to as severe Covid. Research done in different parts of the world has also made it clear that severe Covid is less due to the viral load the patient is carrying. It stems more from aberrant hyperactivity of the immune system, which was no doubt triggered by the infection but creates problems more due to dysfunctional braking mechanisms. Continued activation of the immune system leads to a sustained flood of proteins called cytokines in the circulation that drives organ damage. This phenomenon is frequently referred to as the “cytokine storm”. But returning to the question of how much the virus is responsible for sustaining this “cytokine storm,” it’s assumed to be to a far lesser extent than factors associated with the host body. In other words, the infected individuals who develop this severe form of Covid more often seem to have pre-existing conditions that predispose them to it. What are the discernible characteristics of such predispositions? It is reported from large studies that people with pre-existing medical conditions (or co-morbidities), like chronic lung diseases, obesity, hypertension, ischemic heart disease, chronic kidney diseases, chronic liver diseases and type 2 diabetes, are over-represented among patients who develop severe Covid. Those factors linked most consistently to worse outcomes have been obesity, type 2 diabetes and hypertension. These observations started coming in from China right at the start of the epidemic. One report from Tongji Hospital in Wuhan recorded almost one-in-four of severe Covid patients were diabetic. And it held true for all countries as the epidemic touched them. In Italy, diabetes had been the second most common co-morbidity associated with death -- one-in-three -- after hypertension. France’s CORONADO study which only studied diabetic patients with Covid found that more than one in five of them required ventilator support and more than one in ten died. If we now go back to the issue of the lower case fatality rate recorded in most south Asian countries, it’s been argued that a large part of this can be explained by demographic characteristics. These countries have a much higher proportion of younger individuals in the population compared to the West. Now if we consider the comorbidity situation in India, our experience has not been much different. More importantly, possibly, is the fact that the number of severe Covid patients having pre-existing metabolic co-morbidities is much higher. Our own experience, taking a rather small cohort of patients while working in a single centre in eastern India in a plasma therapy trial, was the finding that almost one-in-two severe Covid patients had diabetes. This tells you that in the absence of pre-existing ailments, the Indian case fatality rate perhaps could have been even lower. Over the past few decades, India has been experiencing a steadily progressing prevalence of non-communicable diseases, especially diabetes. More importantly in contrast to the West, where obesity is more often associated with the development of type 2 diabetes, in this part of the world non-obese individuals are also affected by this condition in large numbers. Several population-level studies over the past few years have shown this and it is also evident from the National Family Health Survey data. Regular personal physical health check-ups are not usual for most of the Indian citizens so the absence of any physical appearance usually thought to be associated with diabetes, such as obesity, also precludes early diagnosis. Thus, we’re also experiencing a silent epidemic of diabetes in the country, as for a large number of people, the first diagnosis leading to the start of medical therapy has to wait till some of the later complications are noted. In a large number of severe Covid cases, diagnosis of high blood sugar or hyperglycemia came as a coincidental finding, with the patients having no prior knowledge of having diabetes. It is true that there have been propositions about de novo incidence of hyperglycemia associated with the virus infection or due to corticosteroid therapy. But these factors only apply to a handful of patients. A large number of patients, apparently healthy in terms of chronic diseases, only came into contact with the medical system due to Covid. It turns out that this pandemic is revealing a number of pre-existing medical conditions, most often type 2 diabetes, that had been unattended until now. A number of these patients are progressing to severe Covid as expected from the already established susceptibility. In addition to the menace of “happy hypoxia” which is delaying medical attention, this ignorance about pre-existing co-morbidities is also playing a big role in the fatalities that could be otherwise prevented if the patients had known before being diagnosed with Covid. It took a viral pandemic to unmask another silent one and it's time we pay heed to that. Covid is not the first infection that makes diabetics more susceptible. Rather, the susceptibility here is of a different sort, leading to hyperactivation of the immune system. Diabetics are known to have a weaker immune system and, thus, higher susceptibility to infections. For example, diabetics have been a major victim of another, much longer-standing pandemic, that of tuberculosis. A number of questions remain unanswered though. One relates to why the immune system suffers in diabetics and if ways can be found for an “a priori” assessment so that diabetics who are more susceptible to immune dysfunctions can be detected. This needs support for focused scientific studies. On the other hand, in the public health domain, greater efforts should be made to screen the population for diabetes much before complications arise. This would be another very critical tool in being prepared for other epidemics that we may have to face in the future. Dipyaman Ganguly is a physician-scientist and immunologist working in CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Biology, Calcutta and is actively engaged in studying Covid-19 patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-102
15-12-2020||Opinion||The only option: farmers' protest||Let’s understand the chronology: before the 2014 general elections, Narendra Modi promised farmers that he would comply with the Swaminathan Commission formula to arrive at a minimum support price for farm produce: a 50 per cent profit over the production cost. Post elections, he reneged on the promise and buried it. In 2016, he dangled a new carrot: that his government shall double farmers’ income by 2022. Four years on, there is no mention of it or any sign of it coming to fruition. We are two years away from the deadline. Farmers’ incomes are stagnant or dipping. Then on Diwali in 2016 came the ‘reform of all reforms’: note-bandi, or demonetization, crushed peasants when their kharif produce arrived in the markets. Their economy lay in tatters while the prime minister sang paeans to his ‘master stroke’, building a perception that it would address the problem of black money. Today, neither the prime minister nor his cabinet ministers speak about the reform that crippled the economy and broke the back of the peasantry. In between, a series of policy measures opened up the farm sector for private plunder, including the three laws that the Modi regime unveiled at the peak of the Covid-19 pandemic, thinking that the peasantry will not be able to put up a resistance to them. The new laws came after the Union finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, announced a series of measures called ‘impetus’ that even she does not talk about four months on. It must be recalled that she had described her 2019 and 2020 budgets as farmer friendly. Yet, hundreds of farmers across the country are up in arms against the Centre. This is because farmers now understand the Modi regime better. For six years, they have been hearing grand announcements that are no more than a mirage. Not only did the regime not deliver on its promises to the farmers, but it has rummaged through whatever little architecture existed in its support. The fixation to do away with middlemen as though they are thugs and the mandis or markets as though they were a bottleneck is ridiculous because both are essential for the farm-to-fork journey. The Modi government did not consult farmers or their unions, state governments or Opposition parties while ratifying the three laws. It was in line with the prime minister’s style of governance: take decisions first and ask people to ratify them ‘in the nation’s interest’ post facto. The laws and a string of policy measures alarmed the farmers, particularly those in Punjab and Haryana. Back in the 1970s, a simple but robust three-pillar formula ushered Punjab and Haryana into the Green Revolution: quality inputs, assured price and guaranteed timely procurement. It worked for three decades until yields stagnated, global markets ravaged local markets, governments steadily withdrew from the farm sector, developed world subsidies bulldozed our small and marginal farmers and an unprecedented agrarian distress enveloped the countryside. Since then, a new deal has eluded the country’s rural-farm sector. Year on year, consumers get cheap food and profits go to market players while risks and losses are borne by farmers. We flittered over temporary relief measures — compensation packages, loan waivers, insurance schemes and so on. We opened markets for some crops and kept them closed for others. We tried floating an evergreen revolution, some missions to reform the sector, created e-markets, and set up infrastructure funds. But our structural problem — small and marginal rain-fed sustenance farms, over 80 per cent of India’s agriculture sector — remains unaddressed. In a world plagued by economic and social uncertainties, farmers are rattled by the harvest of falsehoods being dished out to them by the Centre amid a long running agrarian crisis. A sincere dialogue could have assuaged their fears. But when dialogue ends, protests are the only option.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-102
15-12-2020||Opinion||Lessons from 2020||The year, 2020, will be marked in history as the year of the Covid-19 pandemic, much like 1918 was the year of the Spanish flu a century ago. The year actually began on an optimistic note as world output was predicted to improve and the US-China trade tensions showed signs of resolution. And one daresay that despite the virus pushing the world into recession, 2020 ends too with optimism and hope as successful vaccine discoveries preview the pandemic’s end on the horizon. It does not, however, overlook the year’s distressful imprints, most notably on unemployment and inequality. The permanent damages inflicted by it will surface over time. The year challenged governments and people all over the world, opening their eyes to previous neglects. What can be learnt from 2020? Perhaps the most outstanding discovery is that climate change risks are real, and can cause blowbacks to humans in unpredictable, dangerous ways. The fact that declining forest covers and the consequent displacement of animals and birds brings closer the human interface increasing disease transmissions is a lesson for urgent action to limit such possibilities. And, indeed, if the accelerated climate-change actions in the year’s latter half are an indicator, this is a lesson that has been learnt quickly. Although climate concerns gained urgency in recent years — as observed from shifts in regulations, policies, capital and investments, the UN’s adoption of it as one of the world’s foremost concerns, and the Paris agreement of 196 countries to keep global warming well below 2 degrees Celsius — the prevailing doubts and half-heartedness seem to have been replaced by an urgency to proceed, advance committed goals, and even raise the bar. Thus, fossil fuel phase-out plans have speeded up. Britain announced last month it will ban the sale of new gasoline and diesel cars by 2030, a decade ahead of its previous commitment. China pledged in September to turn carbon neutral by 2060; as the world’s top polluter, its hurrying to reduce carbon dioxide emissions is the year’s most important message. Then, the United States of America, which exited the Paris deal under President Donald Trump, will re-join it and the president-elect, Joe Biden, is set for a major diplomatic push to realize climate ambitions. The US’s net zero target by 2050 now equals that of the European Union, bringing all major nations on one platform. On the private side, leading global companies are making commitments to reach zero emissions by 2050. These quickening steps to address climate change risks make it the most important learning of 2020. India is also on course to fulfil its self-determined obligations committed in Paris. It now needs to step up the secondary-round changes to transit from fossil-fuel-based uses to clean, renewable energies. This is a bigger challenge than adding renewable capacities because it involves difficult changes to electricity markets, the setting up and enforcement of emission norms, devising necessary incentives, penalties and so on. Beyond the fossil-fuel transition risk, India faces significant physical risks from climate change. These vulnerabilities are concentrated in agriculture, water scarcity, public health, ecosystems, habitat, and infrastructure; they are explicit in the rise in average temperature, and increased frequency of extreme weather events — floods, cyclones and so on — over time. Widening climate policy to address these could be our own learning from this pandemic year: 2020 highlighted the mutual reinforcement between climate change and health vulnerabilities — crowded slums, poor and underfunded health services and medical staffs, poor access to good sanitation facilities — connecting the spread of a contagious virus to the provision of health services. This raises the second lesson to be drawn from this year — the priority of public health in national policies, resources, and investments. The year underscores how an unknown, communicable disease without any effective cure, therapeutic treatment or precautionary vaccine could only be managed through non-therapeutic measures like distancing and masks, while treating high infection volumes depended critically on the existing strength and penetration of public health systems, infrastructures and capacities. Countries with robust healthcare systems managed better; Germany is an example. But here too, leading international agencies as also the G20 recognized public health as one of the main concerns. Hopefully, this discovery will lead to the strengthening of public health fundamentals across countries in the forthcoming times. Where India is concerned, the bare public health infrastructure and investment deficit were severely exposed in the pandemic, including the hurried augmentation of capacities. Its public health gap is understood to have been reviewed as a result of the 15th Finance Commission whose chairman has stated that public health expenditure needs to increase from the current 0.95 per cent to 2.5 per cent of the GDP. A third important learning from 2020 can be about social security — its provision, coverage, and the economic and labour market structures impacting these. Moral and ethical conflicts surfaced in 2020 as lockdowns and containment restrictions posed difficult trade-offs between lives and livelihoods, bringing support provision for the affected to the forefront. It especially challenged countries with poor social security systems, little or no financial resources, safety nets and partial coverage. Countries with built-in automatic stabilizers — these are budgetary methods to increase spending or lower taxes when the business cycle slows or vice versa — fiscal reserves or ability to borrow, low informal employment, could respond better to offset the loss of jobs and incomes. This is exemplified not just by the advanced countries that spent generously on pay protection programmes, furlough schemes, and other welfare measures, but also by many emerging market ones. India, however, was seriously challenged in this aspect for three reasons. One, its social security and safety net coverage is limited, typically underfunded, and has large gaps because of a vast informal economy and employment. Two, the lack of money limited temporary fiscal support that stood out as amongst the lowest in the world. Three, the existing channels and schemes through which immediate financial help could be successfully reached or delivered were inadequate; these are restricted to the countercyclical job-provision programme, the MGNREGA, which enabled rural outreach, but channels for urban areas that were more severely affected by shutdowns and forced large-scale exodus of migrants are missing. No doubt there’s something to be learnt here and is testified by efforts to construct a migrant database to address this gap. Fortifying social security provision and enhancing coverage with sufficient resources are an equally important lesson from 2020. Here, the abysmal Union and state government finances that have been, and are likely to remain, would pose severe drawbacks in the foreseeable future. Indeed, the most outstanding message of 2020 for India is perhaps this — save or reserve for a rainy day. These are only a few spheres of discovery. Undoubtedly, there are many others. Some more will also be discovered ahead, after the pandemic recedes and creates space for looking back. We can look forward to more introspection in 2021. The author is a macroeconomist||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-103
