16-12-2020||Opinion||Watch out: religious bias||A law is the codified expression of dominant social values. Or of the prohibitions they imply. The determination with which the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, Yogi Adityanath, pushed through the ordinance outlawing religious conversion undertaken solely for the purpose of marriage sprang perhaps from a desire to lead by following the followers. The chief minister’s own penchant for discrimination flows into and feeds on the same cultural propensity of the state he governs. The Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020 violates the constitutional right to practise any religion and the right to privacy and personal autonomy interpreted as a fundamental right by the Supreme Court in 2017. “Unlawful” conversion assumes the State’s right to judge whether anyone has been forced to change religions. The religious bias that the UP government takes no pains to conceal ensures that the ordinance is applied only in cases of Hindu women marrying or having a relationship with men from the largest minority community. Projecting such relationships as part of a plot by this community to change India’s demography establishes a foundational myth that becomes an alibi for the aggression of the dominant sections of UP society. The ordinance takes the myth as its premise and formalizes unconstitutional action based on community and gender hatred. Most important, it legitimizes the intervention of families, relatives and neighbours into interfaith relationships and marriages. They willingly turn into useful representatives of the State, especially when a romance is about to flower. At a later stage, just before marriage or just after it, there are the police who can act on parents’ complaints, or temples and registration offices, where officials act as informants. It is not even necessary to report to the administration; alerting a Hindutva organization is enough for the State to leap into action. These organizations take great pride in counting and declaring the number of ‘love-jihad’ unions they have destroyed. The entire state of UP has gradually turned into an enormous surveillance network, with its skeins running through the narrowest alleys. Social media, too, are attuned to the same purpose — of spying and informing. The informer syndrome demonstrates how the nurturing of distrust for one community can become an internally divisive weapon for the other. Hatred does not obey boundaries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-102
16-12-2020||Opinion||Poor timing: The Central Vista project||Sir — The orderly ‘ground-breaking ceremony’ in New Delhi for a new, grand and imposing Parliament complex seemed rather incongruous to the times, as the country is going through unprecedented difficulties owing to the Covid-19 pandemic and the economic downturn. The occasion was rendered cheerless in the face of the intensified agitation by farmers, who demand that the new farm laws be repealed. The ‘bhoomi pujan’ performed in keeping with Hindu traditions was a display of the primacy of one particular religion. The Central Vista project, estimated to cost about Rs 20,000 crore, reinforces the notion that politics is too often determined by the personal vanities of politicians. The new Parliament building is being touted as a necessity to commemorate the 75th anniversary of Independence. But would not a resolve to strengthen democratic values and practices and a plan of action to mitigate crises like poverty have been a worthier tribute than the construction of a grandiose building? The government should be more concerned with resolving the economic hardships of India’s impoverished multitudes than with securing ease of working for parliamentarians and bureaucrats. In a city where destitute, homeless countrymen sleep on pavements, one cannot in good conscience boast of a four-storey, triangular building within a grand construction sprawling across the heart of the national capital. Further, the clearance of trees — they are supposed to be transplanted and not cut down — to prepare the ground for concrete structures is not going to help with the abatement of pollution in Delhi. Shovanlal Chakraborty,Calcutta Sir — The prime minister, Narendra Modi, laid the foundation stone for the new Parliament complex project while the people of India, many of whom are still starving, wonder what was the point of such a massive financial indulgence at a time when the country’s economy is facing severe crises. Many have also lost their livelihood on account of the pandemic. The construction work, however, cannot begin at the moment since the Supreme Court is still hearing petitions challenging the project. It has warned the government against “pushing forward aggressively” with the project ahead of the top court’s decision. The prime minister owes an explanation to the people of India for the huge expenditure which appears to be nothing but a waste of public money, especially during a time of crisis. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — The Central Vista project will be of little benefit to the people. In comparison, the statue of Vallabhbhai Patel was better designed, as it was supposed to serve, in certain ways, the interests of the people. The government needs to imagine public edifices that embrace the common people; they cannot be exclusive fortifications. Edifices and facilities — consider the Grand Trunk Road — built by monarchs for public use have endured in the collective memory of the people because of their inclusiveness. In monarchies, national infrastructure has owners who pass on the responsibility of its maintenance to their heirs. But in a democracy, ministers are keen only on extending their term; so they pander to the current set of voters by means of ostentatious constructions. Perhaps that is why many European nations happily carry on public business in the centuries-old structures that bear the memorable stamp of every period of their history. R. Narayanan,Navi Mumbai Cheerless season Sir — It is disheartening that many countries in Europe are considering strict lockdowns just ahead of Christmas owing to a spike in Covid-19 cases. After Greece and Germany, the Netherlands are now expected to enforce a renewed phase of lockdown. Although it is understandable that people would be heartbroken by these moves, it is necessary that they stay strong and fight the virus by abiding by the rules chalked out for their own safety. After all, keeping it low one festive season could ensure that they live to celebrate many more such occasions in the future. Shekhar Moitra,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-102
16-12-2020||Opinion||Strange idea: tweaking the National Anthem||A maverick leader may be a political liability in an election season. The prime minister and his colleagues in the Bharatiya Janata Party — they have their eyes fixed on the approaching assembly elections in Bengal — seldom lose an opportunity to wax eloquent about Rabindranath Tagore, the state’s tallest icon. Unsurprisingly, the shadow has fallen, once again, between the BJP’s words and deeds. As if the embarrassing attribution of Visva-Bharati as Tagore’s birthplace in a tweet by the Bengal unit was not enough, Subramanian Swamy, the BJP’s proverbial enfant terrible, has now demanded that the national anthem penned by the Poet be tweaked as some bits of it, in Mr Swamy’s opinion, no longer reflect the ground realities of post-Independence India. The mention of ‘Sindh’, now in Pakistan, in the anthem has got the BJP parliamentarian’s goat: Mr Swamy deems that the version sung by Subhas Chandra Bose and his comrades in the Indian National Army can be a suitable replacement. There are several weaknesses in Mr Swamy’s argument. Substituting some of Tagore’s words with those used by Bose and his comrades would not help Mr Swamy’s cause because ‘Sindh’ had not been dropped by the valorous peers in the INA. There is also a broader, philosophical problem. The spirit of Tagore’s song transcends the narrow borders of geography and territoriality. Its aesthetic appeal lies in its explicit endorsement of humanism, harmony, pluralism, brotherhood and cultural diversity. The importance of these elements had been recognized and appreciated by members of the Constituent Assembly in the context of the founding and the sustenance of the nascent Republic. Should Mr Swamy’s demand then be seen as a rejection of this composite vision? The conjecture cannot be dismissed, given these divisive times. Ironically, there may even be an ideological argument against Mr Swamy’s reasoning from the sangh parivar itself: the deletion of Sindh would dismantle the parivar’s Akhand Bharat project. Narendra Modi, the recipient of Mr Swamy’s letter, would be more concerned with the immediate political costs of such periodic howlers. Earlier, another missive had been sent to the National Council for Educational Research and Training, demanding the excision of Tagore’s writings from textbooks. Another contribution of Tagore, the national anthem, is now being viewed through the lens of revisionism. Mr Modi is surely aware that such radical propositions could undo his attempts to win Bengal’s heart with quite a bit of help from Tagore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-102
16-12-2020||Opinion||For a slice of double delight||“Where can I get doubles?” I asked a stranger while walking around Queen’s Park Savannah in Port of Spain on a Sunday morning. The stranger guided me to one corner of the park saying, “Usually you get doubles there till about 9 am.” As directed, I proceeded and found a vendor who was selling doubles. It was a small stall on wheels with “doubles for TT$ 5” printed on its body. I had to wait in a queue for a few minutes since there were customers before me. I asked for a doubles as my turn came. Hearing my English, which was without the touch of a Trinbagonian Creole, he looked at me and asked, “With chutney or without?” I did not know much about the ingredients in a doubles and didn’t want to miss any flavour. “With,” I replied. As he prepared the food, I observed how he put the cooked chana or chickpea between two pooris and rolled it on a paper. As I unwrapped it and took a bite, I could taste cooked Indian chickpea curry, close to the ghugni style and something like poori or bhatura but not the same. Trinbagonians call this poori-like soft flatbread, bara. Besides the cooked chickpeas, the other ingredients included Caribbean chilli sauce and sweet mango pickle. The whole package was faintly sweet for my palate. It reminded me of the poori and chana that I had enjoyed as a boy in Sambalpur in Odisha, especially at the roadside shop in front of Gangadhar Meher College (now University) near Fatak railway station. Four pooris and cooked chana on a knitted sal leaf plate was a unique weekend attraction for students and travellers both for taste and affordability. The preparation of chickpea brought back the memory of ghugni in Ravenshaw College (now University) square in Cuttack. The chana preparation for a doubles is less spicy than ghugni. As is known, ghugni is a popular snack in the Indian subcontinent, especially in the eastern region of India. The chickpea, popularly known as kabuli chana in the subcontinent, is used for doubles. I am told that most of this chana is supplied from Canada, grown in the areas of Alberta and Saskatchewan. The use of either saffron or turmeric gives the bara a light yellow colour. “Have you tried our doubles, High Commissioner?” was one of the questions that often crept in during my conversation with guests and visitors in Trinidad and Tobago in the early months of my arrival in Port of Spain. “Do you have doubles in India?” I was asked sometimes. After getting a taste of the Trinidadian doubles, I could frame an answer, “Not exactly, but something similar is the poori-chana or chole-bhature. Though the bhatura in North India has grown in size over the years.” Doubles is a signature street-side breakfast in Trinidad and Tobago. In some places, it can also be eaten as an afternoon or late-night snack. Over the last eight decades, it has grown to become a Trinbagonian national cultural identity, cutting across ethnic and racial barriers. It has also crossed geographical boundaries. Presently, doubles is available in London, New York City, Toronto, Winnipeg, Miami and Tokyo. The doubles has a history rooted in indentureship in Trinidad and Tobago. A total of 1,43,939 indentured labourers from India came to this land between 1845 and 1917 out of which about 14 per cent were Muslims. Mamoo Deen, who is credited with having introduced doubles to the colonial Trinbagonian community in 1936, is part of this history. According to the book, Out of the Doubles Kitchen: A Memoir of the First Family of Doubles — The Number One Street Food of Trinidad & Tobago, written by Badru Deen, one of Mamoo Deen’s sons, his ancestors hailed from Uttar Pradesh in pre-independent India. The exact place in Uttar Pradesh is lost in migration history. ‘Mamoo’ Deen means ‘Uncle’ Deen in Hindi. However, the actual name could have been Imam-ul-Deen, and the British officer could have registered the name as Mamoo Deen as he heard it. According to Badru Deen, Mamoo Deen was born on January 22, 1917 and died on March 13, 1979. It is believed that before doubles, Mamoo Deen sold fried chana wrapped in cone-shaped paper in front of cinemas and colleges and improved it by adding a cooked variety. He then introduced a single bara with the curried chana cooked by his wife. Subsequently, customers, especially college students, asked him to make it a ‘double’ by adding a second bara over the chana. Thus came the name, doubles. Subsequently, Deen’s two sisters were married to the two Ali brothers, and the Deen-Ali family business expanded. According to one grandson, Araby Ali, who runs the Araby Ali’s Doubles Ltd. in Barataria in Trinidad, his ancestors were the ‘Bengali miyan’ of colonial India. Today, besides the Deen and Ali family outlets, many other vendors sell doubles across the Caribbean and outside. They usually sell them out of boxes. A few stalls fry their baras in makeshift kitchens in the back of pick-up trucks. However, the chana continues to be prepared in home-based kitchens. Many Trinbagonian cuisines have an Indian connection. Roti shops are omnipresent where one can buy one’s lunch. Dal and white flour are two crucial ingredients in these recipes. Since the indentured labourers from India did not bring wheat flour or atta, they used white flour supplied from Europe. Therefore, the roti one gets in roti shops here is made of white flour and not atta. The other household food are baigini, sahina, dhal puri, tarkari and chokha. Ever since the day I was treated to chokha, I had been wondering where did the litti go, leaving the chokha lonely. Gradually, I came to know that since the atta could not come with the indentured labourers, only the chokha had arrived, leaving the litti behind to keep the Chhath festival celebrations going in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-102
16-12-2020||Opinion||Epic markers||“The farmers are camping along five major highways on the outskirts of New Delhi and have said they won’t leave until the government rolls back what they call the ‘black laws’.” This was the news on December 8, the day on which the nation observed a voluntary lockdown, a Bharat bandh. A group of farmers in Karnataka with whom I was talking on the day of the bandh said that these five camps are like the five Pandavas. The unexpected analogy set me thinking. Thousands of farmers had set out on an unprecedented march from Punjab, the land of five rivers. Their destination was New Delhi, which, in ancient times, was Indraprastha. Twelve days earlier, on November 27, they were stopped by the Haryana police by digging trenches in their path, using water cannons and raising massive barricades. The site of the clash was not too far from ancient Kurukshetra where the Mahabharata war took place. The time of the year too was the month of Margashirsh, intimately associated with the plot of the ancient war. From the moment the farmers arrayed themselves for the confrontation, the media gaze, the divya-chakshu, turned to the spot where the action was taking place. In the Mahabharata, Sanjaya, gifted with divine vision, was charged with the task of presenting a blow-by-blow account of the war to the blind father of the Kauravas. The initial day on the ancient Kurukshetra battlefield was spent in shouting war-slogans and blowing insignia-conches. From that day, till the tenth day, Bhishma was the general on the Kaurava side. Bhishma was shot through, but waited for his death till Margashirsh got over. Drona, who followed Bhishma as the general, lasted for five days, to be followed by Karna, who lasted for three days, finally followed by Shalya who presided over the defeat of the Kaurava army. The minister, Narendra Singh Tomar, was fielding for the government for the first ten days of the agitation. Tomar was sidelined and the action moved to the residence of the home minister, Amit Shah, on the eleventh day. Besides, there is in the background the construction of the Central Vista and its foundation laying ceremony permitted by the Supreme Court, reminiscent of the palace-building in the epic. There are also the million lamps that lit up the ghats of Ganga to mark Dev Deepavali, exactly when the ‘love jihad’ law by the Uttar Pradesh government emboldened vigilantes to swoop down on Hindu girls in love with Muslim boys, no less demeaning than Bhishma’s abduction of the unwilling daughters of the king of ancient Kashi, now famous as the constituency of Narendra Modi. Although apparently superficial, the similarities are eye-catching. The ancient epic depicts a war for protection of ‘racial purity’. ‘Kulkshya’, the loss of pure lineage, and the ‘pollution of women by others’ were among the main reasons presented by Arjuna to Krishna for his reluctance to go to war as the beginning of the Bhagwad Gita states it. Krishna’s advice was to stay steadfast in one’s duty, the dharma as the Gita described it. The Gita marks the first day of the epic war. November 26, the day of the Constitution, marked the beginning of the farmer’s march. Indeed, the confrontation between the farmers and the government has an epic scale. The Mahabharata was set in times that witnessed the historic transition of society from pastoralism to agriculture. The current confrontation is set in times when society is witnessing a shift from a responsible democratic State to the crony-capitalism of an authoritarian government. All that the Pandavas were asking for was their right over Hastinapur. All that the farmers are asking for is the repeal of the recent agriculture related Acts. Their argument is that if the government does not provide the minimum support price for their production, they would be rendered vulnerable to the vagaries of the open market. Those of our countrymen who are not directly connected with agriculture as a profession tend to think that if other sectors such as banking, insurance, healthcare and education have already been handed over to private players, why not agriculture? Every day, so many economists have been asking this question in television debates. The logic in this question is flawless, but the understanding of the issue is deeply flawed. The agrarian society is not ‘a sector’; it is a distinct civilization, particularly in the case of India, Iran and Egypt. These are countries, which in ancient times gave birth to distinct civilizations because they had moved from pastoralism to agriculture. Indian farmers are, if described from a comprehensive historical perspective, the true makers of India. The nation did not create Indian farmers; the farmers here created the Indian nation. Farming is not just an occupation or a livelihood but much more. It is the very basis of the village-systems, which, despite their serious drawbacks, provide Indian society its resilience and tolerance. Hence, when they are pauperized, left in a deep debt trap and forced to commit suicide, the legislators and economic planners should not look at them merely as an economic liability. True to its characteristic habit of propaganda, the regime made it appear that the farmers’ agitation is fuelled by the separatists and by Opposition parties. The genuine concerns of farmers were sidelined and ridiculed. Many government spokespersons question why farmers should insist on getting more than what they are already getting in the form of cheap electricity and subsidized fertilizers. It is not the government that is subsidizing the farmers but it is the farmers who subsidize the nation by not demanding pension, old age allowance, annual increments and LTA. They are only asking for a guarantee that their production gets a reasonable and a minimum price. Elaborate war-time debates form a feature of epic poems. There have been many debates within the Mahabharata as to why the war that destroyed everybody could not be prevented in the first place. Many of those discussions point to the greed, contempt and anger of Duryodhana and to his father’s turning (literally) a blind eye to evil. The ancient Mahabharata provided an occasion for a metaphysical text like the Gita. Anger towards all those who hold divergent views and contempt for constitutional norms have been the unmistakable features of the present regime. The Constitution assures us that India is and will continue to be a democracy. The directive principles in it are clear about the direction in which the State policies ought to move. Let us hope that the epic agitation by India’s farmers provides the regime with a desire to think of the constitutional norms and Bharat does not have to go through a Mahabharata-like destruction for defending democracy. The author is a literary scholar and cultural activist 
ganesh_devy@yahoo.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-102
