17-12-2020||Opinion||All the same: madrasa, Sanskrit tols||The multiple connotations of the word ‘secularism’ sometimes contradict one another — in effect even if not semantically. The Assam government has decided to repeal the laws regarding state-run madrasas and Sanskrit tols and turn madrasas into regular high schools. Theological subjects will be withdrawn; only Arabic will continue to be taught as a language. Tols, however, will pass to the Kumar Bhaskar Varma Sanskrit and Ancient Studies University as research centres for Indian civilization, culture and nationalism. The reason announced for the decision is secularism. The Assam government cannot be faulted: in the S.R. Bommai versus Union of India case of 1994, the Supreme Court had pronounced that state-owned educational institutions were prohibited from imparting religious instruction. But it has to be asked why there were state laws permitting madrasas under the government’s auspices that must be repealed now. Were they constitutional? Or does the definition of secularism chosen by Assam’s Bharatiya Janata Party-led government now wish to ignore Articles 28, 29 and 30 of the Constitution that permit — however confusingly — government aid for minority education? Since privately-run madrasas have so far escaped the state government’s passion for its favoured secularism, it may be a stretch to criticize its decision as communally biased. What cannot be denied is differential treatment. Even if it is possible to overlook the assumption that tols impart religious education — the BJP may be unaware of Sanskrit literature, aesthetics and philosophy — it seems strange that they should graduate into centres for Indian civilizational studies. Assam promises to be the first to have degrees on this subject. Sceptics may see in the government’s desire to appear even-handed a deeper purpose: propagating one-sided views of Indian culture and nationalism. The education minister clarified there would be no history. Naturally: history would overturn BJP-directed ideas of civilization. In the S.R. Bommai case, the Supreme Court had also said that politics and religion cannot be mixed. More pointedly, it said that when the Constitution requires the State to be secular in thought and action, it applies to political parties as well. Indian secularism is far from simple. That is indicated by the constitutional provisions for the education of religious and linguistic minorities. But it is no surprise that a BJP-led government would decide to be secular in its chosen way.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-101
17-12-2020||Opinion||Different wheels: Calcutta cyclists ask to be permitted on roads again||Sir — In a much-needed step, organizations of cyclists and cycling enthusiasts recently wrote to the police commissioner of Calcutta, requesting permission to allow bicycles to ply all roads in the city. Earlier this month, Calcutta police had launched a drive to prevent cyclists from moving in thoroughfares. While law enforcement is right to fear an increase in road accidents if cycles are allowed on all roads, many people post-Covid have opted out of public transportation altogether and solely rely on cycles to get to work. Transport policies should be updated to reflect the needs of the people. Arun Chatterjee,Calcutta Wrong move Sir — It is quite unfortunate that the Bharatiya Janata Party, which is hoping to make inroads into Bengal in the upcoming assembly elections, is woefully clueless about the history of the state and its icons (“Alien address”, Dec 11). The official Twitter handle of the state unit of the BJP had recently announced, quite erroneously, that Visva-Bharati and not Jorasanko was the birthplace of Rabindranath Tagore. Although the tweet was later removed, this faux pas is unforgivable. The ruling Trinamul Congress has rightly asserted that the BJP is ignorant of the rich cultural heritage of Bengal. No matter how much the BJP continues to allude to luminaries like Swami Vivekananda, Rabindranath Tagore or Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar in its election speeches, the saffron party’s understanding of the history of the state is shallow at best. The BJP’s linkages with the Bharatiya Jana Sangh may enable it to invoke the legacy of Shyama Prasad Mookerjee, but the fact remains that Bengal’s political trajectory has long been progressive rather than ideologically conservative. Citing incorrect facts about revered Bengalis will not yield political dividends either. Regrettably, several TMC leaders, too, have failed to carry forth the political and cultural lineage of Bengal with the dignity it demands. Jahar Saha,Calcutta Sir — As the BJP continues to attempt to invoke the legacy of Rabindranath Tagore to endear itself to the Bengali voter, I am reminded of the quote by Kabiguru where he says, “Patriotism can’t be our final spiritual shelter... I will never allow patriotism to triumph over humanity as long as I live”. The BJP has time and again failed to prioritize humanity over patriotic fervour. It is thus surprising that the saffron party would venerate a figure whose ideals stood in complete opposition to those of the BJP and the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. The BJP’s decision to strip Jammu and Kashmir of statehood, the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, the National Register of Citizens or the arbitrary arrest of civil rights activists would have all been staunchly criticized by Tagore. Unlike the BJP, Tagore’s idea of nationalism was rooted in brotherhood and secularism. It is of utmost importance that the BJP understands the principles and ideals that Tagore stood for before paying homage to the great man. Whether it was the party president, J.P. Nadda, who had mistakenly referred to Visva-Bharati as Tagore’s birthplace or if it was a slip on the part of the IT cell is ultimately irrelevant. Such mistakes only go on to further strengthen the Opposition’s assertion that the BJP lacks a cultural and political understanding of Bengal. Kajal Chatterjee,Calcutta Sir — Ever since the BJP won 18 seats in West Bengal in the 2019 general elections, it has become evident that the party intends to win the next assembly elections. However, in spite of its ambitions, the party remains unable to grasp the political pulse of Bengal. It must understand that the TMC was able to dethrone the Left owing to a combination of appropriate timing and charismatic leadership. Mamata Banerjee, no matter her shortcomings, is one of the tallest mass leaders to emerge from Bengal. The BJP does not have a figure who can match the chief minister’s popularity. The BJS might have been founded by a Bengali, but that is too flimsy a pretext on which to entice voters in the state. The BJP might succeed in increasing its vote share in the 2021 assembly elections, but it will take much more to truly replace the TMC as the ruling party in Bengal. Bal Govind,Noida Sir — As the campaigning for the 2021 assembly polls heats up, it has become abundantly clear that the BJP is trying to draw the people of Bengal into the larger Hindutva fold. While progressives would like to think that Bengal, which can boast of a long leftist legacy and has been home to secular-humanist icons like Rabindranath Tagore and Lalon Fakir, would be able to ward off the onslaught of rabid Hinduism, it is far from the truth. The growing popularity of the BJP amongst Bengalis indicates that unless the TMC, the Congress and the Left parties come together, the BJP might just win the assembly elections. Abhirup Saha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-101
17-12-2020||Opinion||Hungry India: layered and complex||A step backward can reverse years of progress. Such a threat looms large over India’s efforts to tackle malnutrition. Data from the latest National Family Health Survey reveal that in the last four years the share of stunted, wasted and underweight children in India has increased in the majority of the states and Union territories that were surveyed. Even states like Kerala, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Himachal Pradesh, which had made progress earlier, have registered a stark rise in stunting. Interestingly, some of these states have also experienced an increase in obesity among children under the age of five. This apparent contradiction seems to highlight a deeper problem — accessibility to and affordability and awareness of nutrition remain uneven across socio-economic constituencies. This has resulted in a dual burden: India has the highest number of obese children in the world after China; a recent national survey also found a drastic reduction in the intake of food among such marginalized communities as Dalits, tribal people and backward classes on account of diminished household income during the lockdown. Laws alone cannot resolve this crisis. Stunting and wasting are on the rise in spite of the existence of the National Food Security Act and a public distribution system that has a wide reach. Policy interventions are wanting; this perhaps explains the regression. The PDS infrastructure remains porous, mired in irregularities like leakages, corruption and the diversion of subsidized foodgrains for profiteering. There is also the problem of exclusion. A number of needy citizens, particularly from the underprivileged sections, are yet to be enrolled as beneficiaries. The lack of access to digital technology — Aadhaar linkage is mandatory for procuring foodgrains from PDS — has aggravated their plight in other ways. For instance, even though rations were doubled under the NFSA during the pandemic, economists estimate that around 100 million names have not been updated in the NFSA lists. What makes the phenomenon of hunger complex is its layered nature. Starvation or malnutrition is not caused by undernourishment alone. There is convergence with interlinked, but less conspicuous, issues such as maternal nutrition; education — research shows that educated mothers bring up healthier children; hygiene; regularized, locally sourced mid-day meals; food wastage. Governments must make the provision of foodgrains equitable for all citizens. But this will not be enough. Policy must mull the need for piecemeal measures and targeted, community-based interventions in order to tackle this growing problem.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-101
17-12-2020||Opinion||Doomsday is creeping||Most people alive today are unlikely to have experienced a single year resembling 2020, both for the rapid spread of the SARS-CoV-2 virus and the response to it worldwide. On the last day of last year, Chinese health officials informed the WHO about a cluster of 41 patients with a mysterious pneumonia and on December 8 this year, a 90-year-old grandmother in the United Kingdom was the first person in the world to be vaccinated against the virus. In the interim, worldwide, about a million and a half succumbed to the new virus. The current global death toll stands at about 1.6 million; about the same number of deaths are attributed to the combined effects of ambient (outdoor) and household air pollution in India annually. Air pollution causes about seven million premature deaths every year. We may or may not witness such alacrity ever again to deal with a pandemic but we now know that it is possible. A fraction of this zeal and speed directed at halting biodiversity loss since the Convention on Biological Diversity entered into force in 1993 may have changed the course of the year, 2020. At the Rio Earth Summit in 1992, the CBD was opened for signature in recognition of the fact that biological diversity was being lost at an unprecedented rate. The rate of loss of species has accelerated since then; the global rate of species extinction is already at least tens to hundreds of times higher than it has averaged over the past 10 million years. Loss of biodiversity tends to increase pathogen transmission and disease incidence. Most epidemics do not just happen; they are a result of what we do to nature. In the case of pathogens, if loss of diversity causes an increase in density of competent hosts, it will very likely increase transmission. There are at least a dozen examples of pathogens for which species loss leads to increase in total transmission. Pathogens that establish in new species do so through multiple steps, including the initial invasion into a new host known as ‘spillover’, the production of transmission stages within the new host and, finally, the establishment of the pathogen in the host population as a whole. Once spillover of the pathogen into a new host has occurred, high densities of that host species facilitate pathogen establishment and transmission within the new host. Disaster that was in the making over these stages has now manifested. The UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs defines slow-onset disaster “as one that does not emerge from a single, distinct event but one that emerges gradually over time, often based on a confluence of different events.” The pandemic, premature deaths due to air pollution and the impacts of climate change would all qualify as slow-onset disasters. However, a disaster is commonly understood as a situation where severe disruption occurs at scale, over a short or long period of time, causing widespread human, material, economic or environmental loss, which exceeds the ability of the affected community or society to cope using its own resources. It is therefore not difficult to see why we are so ill equipped to deal with slow-onset hazards and disasters despite the knowledge that these affect more people on aggregate than sudden-onset disasters do. It has to do with the way disaster is conceptualized and defined, besides lack of political attention. In India, the Disaster Management Act, 2005 defines disaster as “a catastrophe, mishap, calamity or grave occurrence in any area, arising from natural or manmade causes, or by accident or negligence which results in substantial loss of life or human suffering or damage to, and destruction of, property, or damage to, or degradation of, environment, and is of such a nature or magnitude as to be beyond the coping capacity of the community of the affected area.” Notice that ‘occurrence’ is the operative word and the terms used are characteristic of sudden-onset disasters. Under such a framing, how can response precede the sudden-onset event with grave consequences? Moreover, the specialized agencies dealing with disasters operate in a ‘fire-fighting’ mode that requires bursts of energy and action over short periods of time after which ‘everybody goes home’, but slow-onset hazards require attention over longer time frames and there is no ‘going home.’ It is also politically problematic to assign the same attention to slow-onset hazards and disasters as the sudden-onset ones since constituents do not see the creeping hazards and their impacts. It is, therefore, important that constituents make themselves aware of the creeping hazards and demand appropriate legislative and policy action. Only then will disasters be re-conceptualized and the emphasis shift from response to preparedness; but then politicians will lose their mojo of being rescuers of a hapless populace. The recent election-time promise of providing free Covid-19 vaccine is but one such instance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-101
17-12-2020||Opinion||A new harvest||The farmers strike of 2020 as an event was a collage of multiple narratives. It tempted one to compare it to the story of the seven blind men and the elephant. As reportage, it lacked the solidity of traditional narratives. It was as if every reporter and news broadcaster, every witness, had a different reaction to the events of the week. There was consensus on only one thing. The protest this time made people nostalgic about the earlier, more legendary, protest of Mahendra Singh Tikait. That protest had an old-fashioned solidity to it. The contrast was visualized in the old portraits of leaders sitting with hookahs. They had delivered and the protest, as one observer put it, was the difference between the stolidity of the hookah and the anarchy of the cell phone. One protest created a classic linear narrative; the other almost projected a burst of distractions capturing every stereotype available. As the farmers broke through the Singhu border, the leadership of the Bharatiya Janata Party reacted in typical style, claiming that Khalistanis and Naxalites had invaded and infiltrated the movement. The farmer by definition became ‘anti-national’ to a regime, which idolizes the cow but treats agriculture and farming with contempt. A moment of confusion, of suspicion, triggers a moment of distraction. Bollywood enters the scene not to consolidate myth but to question the integrity of the strike. Kangana Ranaut, hungry for attention, identifies an old woman, a protester, as a professional agitator, sighted earlier at Shaheen Bagh. For once, Ranaut’s imperious petulance is subdued by the Punjabi star, Diljit Dosanjh, who demands a return to propriety. The fact that Dosanjh had donated a crore for warm clothes for the farmers added dignity and integrity to his statement. Ranaut retreats into utter confusion targeted by other stars who saw her as easy meat. But if Bollywood was only capable of distraction, the cameo role belonged to the Canadian premier, Justin Trudeau, who, speaking on Guru Nanak’s birthday, assured his Sikh constituency that he was aware of the protest raising human rights issues. The objections of the Indian government were more like clerical interjections rather than possessing the eloquence of a convincing rebuttal. On the other hand, Arvind Kejriwal created a sense of ambivalence by attacking the Punjab chief minister, Amarinder Singh, claiming it was irresponsible to launch an agitation in the middle of the Covid crisis. Kejriwal turned full circle by meeting the protesters and even claimed that the Narendra Modi government had put him under house arrest for supporting the farmers’ struggle. The power and range of the struggle were obvious. It brings two other sets of political reactions. Firstly, Manohar Lal Khattar in next door Haryana tries to localize the struggle along with other stalwarts of the BJP. He contends, in fact presents weakly, that the struggle was one of Punjabi farmers and had nothing to do with Haryana. As the days move on, one thing is clear; the struggle is acquiring the status of a legend. Farming instead of looking insulated, isolated and divided is creating a struggle that the country’s effete Opposition envied. Statements of support pour in, visits to the farmers are publicized, but it is clear that the farmers are opposing the regime. The Opposition parties sounded like a weak chorus, almost envious that they have lost a great opportunity. The unity and plurality of the struggle are obvious. There are dozens of farming groups represented, each clear that it should be present at the negotiations. The sheer pluralism and the unity give a sense of democracy. The responses of Amit Shah and his entourage sound dour, more a Pavlovian response to a law and order problem than to a sociological and economic crisis. The BJP’s lack of imagination in handling any crisis except as a law and order problem provoked by anti-nationals is obvious. It sounds like a party that has run out of ideas. Yet more than the State with its idiotic ideas of governance, it is television media that is uncomfortable with the farmers’ strike, seeking to discredit it in various ways. When one watches certain channels, one senses that they realize that the farmers claim an integrity in the Indian subconscious that the media lack. One senses that the media are not only losing credibility but also the trust of the struggle that distances itself from such arrogance. It is almost as if the media are afraid that a bunch of rustics may take over the country and they are treating the farm leaders as country bumpkins. There is, however, one redeeming aspect. Younger journalists, many with their feet on the ground, are raising valid questions. A reporter like Anumeha Yadav pointed out that the very diversity of farming requires a gradient of policy in which marginal groups are catered to differently from the big farmers. Agriculture is a way of life invoking a range of life chances. Such a sensitive reading contrasts with the government’s blanket decision to bring corporates into agriculture. It is as if land as an emotion, a way of life, is suddenly read as real estate. The entry of corporate control into agriculture may eliminate the riches of diversity that make agriculture so life-giving and anarchic. In fact, Amitabh Kant’s alleged reaction as a technocrat in Niti Ayog sums up the tiredness with democracy that technocrats feel. Agriculture multiplies the tiredness and makes the regime impatient for blanket solutions. The farmers’ strike and its narrative have become a collective parable about livelihood and governance today. At the level of a moral fable, agriculture is still a part of the unconscious, the cultural substrate of modern India. Agriculture has credibility as a moral economy that the media lack. The media, or a section of it, found it difficult to discredit the farmer even from the narrow logic of the nation state. One also realizes policy, like politics, cannot play out as, or pretend to be, a flat land of uniformity. Its very diversity is its life. To destroy that diversity is to undermine democracy. The farmer is still annadata, a credibility that the media lack. Reading the farmers’ story of narratives contained within it, one senses that democracy and agriculture need a language of plurality, a sense of the vernacular, an idea of moral economy beyond the standard political economy to survive and innovate. The stereotyped performances of Modi and Shah show that the majoritarianism of the regime has failed democracy and agriculture as moral and political imagination. Yet an essay cannot stop at this point, not in the post-truth era. One has to realize that agriculture is beyond prices. To sustain agriculture, one has to ensure that biotechnology and the corporations do not destroy it. To ensure that, one needs not radicalism but alternative imagination. The story of the farmers’ strike has to eventually lead to alternative possibilities. Diversity becomes part of the justice of the future. Farming is not just productivity but a way of dreaming, thinking and sustaining the dreams of food. One wonders whether our media are ready for such a world. There is the bigger danger that the State might create a theatre of violence, which can erase all the issues of governance and democracy confronting it. The breakdown of agriculture might signal the breakdown of the current regime. The author is an academic associated with Compost Heap, a network pursuing alternative imaginations||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-102
