18-12-2020||Opinion||Distant goal: correcting gender imbalance||India’s goal of correcting its gender imbalance seems to have grown more distant. The National Family Health Survey has found that a number of states that had made progress in terms of the sex ratio at birth have now posted discouraging figures. Out of the 22 states surveyed thus far, eight have registered a significant decline in their sex ratios. These include Kerala, Meghalaya, Maharashtra and Himachal Pradesh, all of which had posted gains in the last NFHS. Kerala had been the second best performer after Punjab in the NFHS-4, clocking a gain of 122 points by bolstering its sex ratio at birth from 925 in the third survey in 2005-2006 to 1,047 in the fourth in 2015-2016. Meghalaya, too, had progressed by 102 points in the last NFHS. The latest findings indicate a clear failure on the part of seemingly gender-forward states to maintain their momentum in correcting skewed sex ratios. With Kerala being India’s most literate state — its literacy rate stands at 96.2 per cent — it can no longer be taken for granted that an educated society will naturally oppose gender-related discrimination and crime. To what are such drastic declines owed? One significant reason is institutional oversight, which is augmented by the hostile societal attitudes towards girl children in India who are commonly aborted because of a marked preference for boys. The Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques Act — enacted in 1994, amended in 2003 and strictly implemented in 2011 — was meant to prevent selective abortion by banning prenatal sex determination, but it has not helped in improving the sex ratio. Several loopholes persist. The stipulations for purchasing point-of-care ultrasound scans are understandably stringent, but this hinders their availability in rural areas, which forces patients to go to distant urban facilities, resulting in delayed diagnoses and added medical expenses. Radiologists have also pointed out that the law does not clearly mention how to dispose of old ultrasound machines, which are often reused for sex determination. There is a shocking gap between intent and implementation in governmental efforts to prevent the deaths of girl children. The goals of the Centre’s flagship Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao scheme are noble, but last year the Narendra Modi-led government conceded in Parliament that almost 56 per cent of the funds for the scheme had been spent on advertising, with no impact assessment being conducted. Filling the legislative, medical and societal gaps is only part of the challenge. Affirmative action must be accompanied by political will to raise public awareness as well as bolster women’s agency over their own bodies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-101
18-12-2020||Opinion||Speak up: Parliament winter session scrapped||Sir — The decision to scrap the winter session of Parliament citing the Covid-19 pandemic as the reason, without building a consensus among party leaders, bears testimony to the utter contempt of the Narendra Modi-led government for the norms of Parliament — the highest democratic forum to deliberate on burning national issues and seek answers from the government (“Govt scraps winter session”, Dec 16). It also reinforces the strongly held belief that this government is becoming more authoritarian by the day. The move poses a threat to the democratic process. At a time when farmers have launched a peaceful and well-coordinated agitation, sitting in thousands in Delhi against the newly enacted, contentious farm bills, one would have expected a democratically elected government to carry out the session for a full-fledged debate on these laws. When all social and political activities have nearly returned to normalcy — this includes holding political rallies with even the prime minister himself addressing big gatherings for the recently held elections in Bihar — the ground for not holding the winter session of Parliament is unconvincing. The truth is that the government is afraid of facing Parliament. S.K. Choudhury,Bangalore Sir — Yet another autocratic move — the cancellation of the winter session of Parliament — in what the prime minister hails as the ‘mother of democracy’ on the pretext of contagion lays bare the real intention of the government, which is hell-bent on passing decisions through brute majority. The government’s firm stand in the face of the steep agitation of farmers is contradictory to the principles of deliberative democracy. The Central Vista project, which would cost the exchequer a huge amount of money at the time of a raging pandemic and looming economic recession, might cost us even more dearly in the future. The fragmented and self-centred Opposition, too, cannot gain any serious traction either inside or outside the House. When the cry for help of the masses is left unheard, it heralds the death of democracy and the emergence of neo-fascism. We, the people, must act sooner rather than later in order to shore up the old house of democracy built on the cornerstone of free-spirited debate instead of celebrating the foundation-laying ceremony for either a new House or a temple. Satabdi Dutta,Burdwan Sir — The scrapping of the winter session of Parliament is not a good idea. It might not have been too difficult to conduct the session for a few hundred members with appropriate safety measures. Just as the government is allowing social life to function almost normally, the government would also be expected to run business as usual. Many important issues of national importance are waiting for in-depth deliberation at the highest forum of democracy — the dwindling economy, the loss of jobs and farmers’ protests, to mention a few. While performing the ground-breaking ceremony for the new Parliament building, the prime minister recalled how he had bowed to the House in reverence on his first entry and how all the aspirations and successes of the people are encapsulated in the Parliament building. Only the proper functioning of the House would attribute sense to his words. D.V.G. Sankararao,Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh Sir — It is astonishing that while the rest of India is functioning digitally — let alone adults working from home, even children are studying online — the top servicemen of the country could simply excuse themselves from convening the most decisive meetings of the nation on the pretext of the threat of contagion from assembly. Do parliamentarians not have internet connection that would allow them to hold a video conference? That would be unfortunate given that the prime minister keenly endorses the digital services. Meher Sharma,Delhi Treat better Sir — The Supreme Court’s ruling that homoeopathic medicine cannot be sold as cure for Covid-19 is welcome. During these distressing times, many untested cures are being promoted. ‘Ayush’ practitioners often claim to treat a range of medical conditions and insist that their patients discontinue allopathic medicine. The ayurveda philosophy attracts many people because of its links to Hindu traditions. Homoeopathy, which is popular in India, is under critical evaluation in many countries because its effects are questionable. All such dubious claims should be disallowed. H.N. Ramakrishna,Bangalore Giant leap Sir — China has recently been stepping up its space programme. This week, a Chinese lunar capsule returned to earth with fresh samples of rock and debris from the moon for the first time in 44 years — the Soviet Union was the last to have undertaken this mission in 1976. The study of this material could reveal hitherto unknown facets about the history of the moon. This is indeed a giant step forward in the domain of astronomy. In the midst of the pandemic — the coronavirus originated in China — this is quite a feat. If one nation can make such progress while battling a new disease, there is hope for other countries too. Shailaja Gupta,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-101
18-12-2020||Opinion||Justice, again: Tablighi acquittal||Years ago, India’s premier investigating agency had earned the epithet, ‘caged parrot’, from the highest court of the land. The Central Bureau of Investigation, evidently, is not short of company inside this metaphorical enclosure. While acquitting 36 foreigners who had been accused of flouting Covid-19 protocols while ‘participating’ in a religious congregation organized by the Tablighi Jamaat in March, a metropolitan court in Delhi not only criticized the failure of the prosecution to prove that the accused were present at the said event but also — in a most damaging observation — acknowledged the possibility of the police picking up these individuals with the malicious intention of implicating them under the directions of the Union home ministry. The strings that make India’s investigation agencies dance seem to have bobbed up to the surface, yet again. Incidentally, in August, charges had been dropped against eight other accused after the court found ‘no prima facie evidence’ against them either: they are among those who had — courageously — agreed to stand trial in India after 900 other foreign delegates opted to plead guilty as part of a plea bargain. These acquittals are important because they expose the hollowness of the campaign that had been directed against the Tablighi Jamaat and, by extension, India’s Muslims who, the propaganda alleged, were instrumental in the spread of the contagion in India. Perhaps the smear campaign had been necessitated to conceal the bungling of the authorities in the first place. The assembly had been allowed to take place even though there was evidence that the pandemic was surging around the world and in India. Some of the participants hailed from nations with rising Covid burdens but their screening was lax. The investigators seem to have taken their cue from their political masters, some of whom played a crucial role in fanning the communal fire, describing members of the Jamaat as ‘terrorists’ and ‘human bombs’. The consequences were ugly: the disparaging comments worsened the strain on India’s inclusive social fabric and magnified the sufferings of minorities. It was the judiciary, once again, that stepped up to contain the poisoning. The Bombay High Court expressed its displeasure against this selective targeting and asked for the damage to be repaired. The latest verdict would strengthen the case for an apology and accountability from the powers that be.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-101
18-12-2020||Opinion||Life story: I hurt, therefore I exist||This is not the happiest note to end the year on. But the year has not been kind to me, or anyone, either. One of the most debilitating experiences in the last few months has been my encounter with the System, which is now Authority upgraded to the Network. It is not a coincidence that the Network is often called the System, but here I am talking about State machinery. The System is invisible, but reveals itself to you when you approach it through an institution. The more vulnerable you are, the more terrifying it is. It holds absolute power over you, and during the pandemic, absolute+. The System eliminated my mother, for a while, even though she was right there, breathing, living, talking, in front of it. Her experience was particularly hurtful, since she has been paralyzed for years and cannot move on her own. I had wanted my mother’s bank to issue her life certificate for the continuation of her pension. She cannot sign her name any more and uses her left thumb impression. She could not get an Aadhaar card because the System then could not organize a home visit by officials for her. Technology does not improve access. Not then, not now. Technology, for her, bars access. A number of phone calls made to the branch where my mother banks did not produce any answer. An online search led me to no other number and I called the bank helpline. I do not think the young lady I spoke to had any intention of understanding my mother’s problem. When other banks are organizing video calls for their senior customers, I was told that my mother had to visit her bank in person. So I bundled her off in my car to the bank. She sat in the car, as it is not possible to carry her inside, and I went in. But I was told that she cannot submit her life certificate application as her details were no longer there in the System: both her photograph and her thumb impression had been erased. She would have to submit all her ID papers and a doctor’s certificate saying that she is only capable of using her left thumb impression for her account to get reactivated. “It is the System,” the official said. But could the bank not see that she was alive? She was there, she was disabled and great pains had been taken to bring her to the bank. She was in pain because she was alive. I hurt, therefore I exist? “It is the System,” the official said. It would not recognise her till Ireturned with the doctor’s certificate. Certainly not her problems. The System has no room for disability. But the official could just come out and collect her thumb impression and take her photograph on behalf of the bank? No, the System did not permit it. Random thoughts crossed through my mind. Was the Unknowable, All-Powerful System the same as the one manifesting itself on the small screen in front of the official? How — quite inappropriate and morbid though this was — Behula and Sabitri must have felt carrying the bodies of Lakhindar and Satyaban respectively. Even more morbid — how my mother’s situation was like that of Kadambini, the young woman in Tagore’s short story, who had to die to prove that she had been alive. Because she could not walk, come to the bank herself and sign her name, Ma had fallen through the cracks of the System and disappeared. She did not exist any more. Only perfect paperwork could revive her, but nothing was promised clearly. I had no idea how long this would go on and how many more visits Ma would have to make. I must have been looking terrible by this time, because of the mixture of rage and helplessness at my inability to explain to the bank the fact of my mother’s life. The official underwent a change of mind, went out with me, and collected Ma’s thumb impression. The life certificate application was accepted. She was not able to withdraw any money. For that the paperwork would have to come through. But at least I had been able to prove she was alive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-101
18-12-2020||Opinion||Making history||As the year limps to its close — not with a bang, but a whimper — and the scale and extent of the devastation caused by the SARS-Cov-2 virus gradually become apparent, even as the first vaccines have begun to be administered in countries across the globe, there seems to be unanimity about only one thing — that 2020 will go down as a defining year in human history, and future chroniclers will have much grist for their analytic mills as they try to make sense of what happened and, maybe more crucially, what could have but did not happen, in these last twelve months. The archives that future historians will sift through in the years to come, in physical and digital forms, have already started to take on vast proportions, and it seems unlikely that there will ever be a consensus about the causes, effects, and efforts to combat the virus undertaken by individuals, institutions, nation states, and multinational entities. Much will depend, of course, on when humanity as a whole is able to live with the virus, in much the same way in which it has become accustomed to live with other viruses (the human immunodeficiency virus that causes AIDS springs most readily to mind in this context). If we are able to effectively eradicate the virus (as we did with smallpox) or contain it (polio), then Covid-19 is something our descendants will encounter as a minor footnote in our history. If, on the other hand, as some have predicted, the virus mutates, multiplies, and continues to disrupt lives then there is no predicting where this particular story will end. These thoughts were prompted by three recent events, each of which has the potential to take on wider and deeper historical importance, and one of proven historical significance which is approaching the half-century mark. The three recent events are, in chronological order, the demonetization of November 8, 2016; the widespread agitation against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act passed by the Indian Parliament on December 11, 2019; and the ongoing farmers’ agitation in the capital city that began on the 25th of last month. The half-century-old event is the defeat of the Pakistani forces through the combined efforts of Bangladeshi freedom fighters and India’s armed forces on December 16, 1971. I had the great good fortune to be present at a ‘Vijay Diwas’ (‘Victory Day’) celebration held on December 16 this year to commemorate the birth of Bangladesh, where former mukti joddhas (Bangladeshi freedom fighters), retired soldiers from Bangladesh’s and India’s armed forces who had served during the Liberation War of 1971, and civilians who had played important roles before, during, and after the war were present to share their thoughts and experiences. As I listened to the matter-of-fact accounts of these senior citizens, narrating events their younger selves had participated in (one former lieutenant of the Pakistani army recounted his defection to the Bangladeshi side, and how the resulting death sentence awarded to him in court-martial has still not been rescinded; an Indian journalist spoke of finding himself under fire whilst climbing a hill only to realize it was coming from friendly Indian troops; retired soldiers from both countries described how country boats and cycle rickshaws had helped the advance of Indian forces in various theatres of war in Bangladesh; a former mukti joddha-turned-Bangladeshi army commander reminisced of how young Bangladeshis fought the Pakistani army with whatever they could lay their hands on, from bamboo stakes to antiquated 303 rifles; the anecdotes were as various as they were fascinating), one thing became apparent: from March 26, 1971, when Sheikh Mujibur Rahman formally declared Bangladesh free of Pakistani rule, a date celebrated as Bangladesh’s Independence Day, till December 16 of the same year, it was by no means certain to those engaged in the struggle for liberation that their efforts would, in fact, bear fruit, their dreams transform into reality. International opinion was not always favourable either: five days into the war, a December 8, 1971 headline in The New York Times reported the United Nations urging truce, by 104 votes to 11, and calling for the withdrawal of all troops from what was still officially East Pakistan to the rest of the world. Had the UN resolution been heeded, it is likely that the birth of Bangladesh would have been significantly delayed, leading to further bloodshed and genocide. Now, of course, we look upon the struggle and its outcome as something close to inevitable, and Bangladesh as a fait accompli even in 1971, but hindsight is always twenty-twenty. No such inevitability adheres to the three recent events I have listed above, nor is there anything inevitable about the way in which the current pandemic will play out; these are all, so to speak, works-in-progress. The tides of history have still not abated enough for us to be able to discern the forces that have created and shaped these phenomena, nor can we forecast how humanity will perceive them in a few years’ (or decades’) time. Commentators (this writer included) have made predictions on the effects of demonetization that have not been borne out by subsequent events; and both the anti-CAA and anti-farm-bills agitations are far from over — trying to gauge their outcomes now is as likely to be perceived as foolish as prescient by later chroniclers. We cannot even be sure of just how these events will be judged by the future. Will these three events become brief endnotes to the larger narrative of a world laid to waste by a deadly pandemic? Or will they be seen as defining events in the narrative of our nation? What will their relationship be interpreted as when considered in relation to the growing authoritarianism of this particular nation state? How will the protests be mapped against the many other events taking place in India and the world at this time — the significance of which may not even have registered with us thus far? These are well-nigh impossible questions to answer, and I am sure there are several others which we do not even know quite how to frame at this moment. In a 1963 speech to the overseas correspondents of the weekly, Newsweek, in London, Phil Graham, the publisher (and later co-owner) of The Washington Post, had spoken of the “inescapably impossible task of providing every week a first rough draft of history that will never really be completed about a world we can never really understand.” Despite the impossibility of making this first rough draft of history, and the perhaps ultimate incomprehensibility of the world in which we exist, we are all inextricably chained to the space-time matrix we were born into, and in which we live, love, grow, experience, and feel. All that we can do is strive to understand our times, and our selves, as best we can, even if we are doomed to fail in this task. Despite its seeming futility, we can, and we must, make an account of our lives and times, not so much for us, here and now, as for posterity; we have no option but to keep adding to the archive. The analysis and the interpretation of this archive remain a task for our descendants. The author is professor of Comparative Literature, Jadavpur University, and has been working as a volunteer for a rural development NGO for the last 30 years||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-101
