19-12-2020||Opinion||Time and tide||The tide in the affairs of men when taken at the flood, the noble Brutus believed, could lead to fortune. The president of Bengal’s Bharatiya Janata Party would certainly appreciate Shakespeare’s foresight. Having taken Brutus’s advice — seizing the moment, as it were — the BJP in Bengal is hoping to cash in on the possible tide of defections from its principal political rival, the ruling Trinamul Congress, that the saffron party seeks to unseat in the upcoming assembly elections. Suvendu Adhikari, one of TMC’s most prominent faces, has resigned from the party. The word is that he would lead a flood of leaders — members of parliament and legislative assemblies as well as lower-level functionaries — not only from East and West Midnapore, Mr Adhikari’s fief, but also such other districts as Howrah and Hooghly, to the BJP. If this does come to pass, the TMC’s electoral prospects in its bastion in South Bengal could well be jeopardized. The BJP believes that with Mr Adhikari changing his spots, as many as 40 assembly seats would be up for grabs. Little wonder then that tides have been on the chief minister’s mind as well. Mamata Banerjee has scoffed at deserters, portraying them as opportunists who swim with the party in high tide and desert it when the waters are low. There is another important adage that seems to have slipped Ms Banerjee’s mind. History, the wise ones say, has a penchant for repeating itself as tragedy. The TMC, its political adversaries have reasons to believe, is now being paid back in its own coin for the party, when the tide was high, had been accused of engineering similar defections from its opponents. The TMC has had no qualms about bleeding dry the Left and the Congress — its chief challengers at one point of time — in an effort to establish its political hegemony. The BJP is now applying the same strategy: Mukul Roy, a turncoat from the TMC himself, has waxed eloquent about this tactic, calling it an essential part of politics. Indeed, the tides in national politics mirror the indispensability of defection as a political weapon that is used most effectively by the BJP. Of course, it is unreasonable to expect that Mr Roy and his ilk would concern themselves with the pitfalls of their actions. The frequent change in political jerseys bares the moral and ideological vacuum that lies at the heart of India’s competitive politics. This amorality has neutralized both legal deterrents and conscience. The existing format of the anti-defection law has been markedly ineffective against such chicanery. Worryingly, voters do not mind such mischief either, even though the defector, by jumping ship, abuses the electoral verdict concerned. If this ignoble tradition is not rooted out, the future of electoral democracy would be bleak in India. The party with the deepest pockets could wield the sceptre permanently. But then Mr Adhikari and Mr Roy cannot be bothered with such trivialities. For they have Bengal’s crown to wrest from Ms Banerjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-100
19-12-2020||Opinion||High cost: Kohli's run out at pink ball test||Sir — It was crushing to watch the skipper of the Indian men’s cricket team, Virat Kohli, lose his wicket during the first day of the first Test match at Adelaide on account of the bad decision-making of the vice-captain, Ajinkya Rahane. Kohli was looking set to make a big score; he had already made 74 runs against a tough Australian bowling attack. He came in to bat when the Indian team was already down two wickets for 32 runs; he first put on a partnership of 68 runs with Cheteshwar Pujara and then an 88-run partnership with Rahane. It still smarts to think of Rahane’s moment of indecision that led to Kohli losing his wicket at a crucial juncture. Rahane had hit a delivery by Nathan Lyon to mid-off and called to Kohli — who is always ready to take a quick single — for the run. Kohli responded to his deputy’s call and started running, but to the horror of spectators, Rahane reversed his decision and sent Kohli back. This cost Kohli and the team dearly and completely changed the game’s momentum; Rahane got out soon after for 49 runs as Mitchell Starc bowled to him in the first over with the new ball. Josh Hazlewood trapped Hanuma Vihari in a leg-before-wicket delivery. Had Rahane exercised better judgment, Kohli would have most likely put on a stupendous score and exerted pressure on the Aussies, which is of great importance when one is playing them on their own turf. Is it any wonder that cricket lovers on social media are furious with Rahane? Madhavi Bhatia,Delhi Sir — Cheteshwar Pujara is right to say that the situation on the opening day of the pink ball test at Adelaide had warranted a lot of patience, as a result of which he played his game accordingly. Even Virat Kohli took control of the game slowly and steadily. Unfortunately, it was Ajinkya Rahane who put an end to the captain’s progress towards scoring another century at Adelaide. Although the Aussies had gained an upper hand during the first session, they started losing their grip during the second and third sessions right till Rahane’s agonizing split-second indecision caused Kohli’s unfortunate run-out. The loss of this wicket triggered a collapse, especially with the new ball. N.V. Krishnan,Chennai Sir — The cricket commentator, Sanjay Manjrekar, has correctly pointed out that Kohli’s run-out on Day One of the pink ball Test at Adelaide was completely the fault of his partner, Rahane. While it is only human to make wrong decisions once in a while on the field, Rahane, as vice-captain, carries an added responsibility to make the best call for the team at all times. Causing Kohli to lose his wicket, especially when he was poised to get a huge score on the board that would have put India in a powerful position against Australia, was unforgivable. However, no mistake warrants the kind of hate that Rahane has been receiving online. Indian cricket lovers and Kohli enthusiasts are right to be enraged, but spewing hatred online has often proved to be greatly detrimental to the mental health of the person or people who are at the receiving end. Constructive criticism should always be welcome; undignified verbal attacks are unacceptable. It is now necessary for the team to move forward and come up with strategies to recover and also to win the next few games in which Kohli will not be playing. One hopes that the morale of the team and its players is not compromised. Radhika Ghosh,Calcutta Bad call Sir — It was with disbelief that I read the news that the Paris city hall has been fined 90,000 euros for allegedly employing ‘too many’ women. In 2018, eleven women had been promoted, breaching a national rule in 2013 that disallowed more than 60 per cent of new appointments to management positions in public service going to one sex. Such rules are almost always overwhelmingly in favour of men; the move to fine the Paris authorities is just another example of the unwillingness of the powers-that-be and larger society to see more and more women in positions of power. The Paris mayor, Anne Hindalgo, is right to be unapologetic about her decision to promote so many women. Arijit Sen,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-100
19-12-2020||Opinion||Hanukkah the festival of light, faith and giving; and special foods||The eight-day Jewish festival, Hanukkah, kicked off on December 10. Kwanzaa, an African celebration, will commence as usual on December 26 through January 1. For Hanukkah, some cities hosted safe parades downtown with menorah lighting and live music. The ceremony to light the world’s largest menorah — 32-feet-tall and weighing 4,000 pounds — started in the evening at Manhattan’s Grand Army Plaza outside Central Park in celebration of the first night of the festival. The event was put together by the Lubavitch Youth Organization. This year the menorah was decorated with LED lights to honour those in New York — more than 27,000 — who died as a result of Covid-19. Hanukkah involves special foods. A crowd favourite is the latke, a potato-like fried pancake served with applesauce or sour cream. Another fried favourite is a special jelly doughnut called sufganiyot, extremely popular in Israel during these eight days. Hanukkah is the festival of lights, faith and giving. Traditionally this time involves gift giving. In these uncertain times donating money is encouraged. Congregation Kol Emeth of Palo Alto organized a National Virtual Hanukkah Celebration. In Chicago, Israel’s consulate held a virtual candle lighting ceremony featuring cantors and musicians from Chicago and Israel. Kwanzaa was introduced in the United States of America in 1966 as a ritual to welcome the first harvest. Gifts are exchanged and there is a feast with cuisine from various African countries. For African-Americans, Kwanzaa is an important recognition of black history. Ugly words One op-ed later, women around the US and the world are forced to prove themselves all over again. Last week, the Wall Street Journal published an opinion piece suggesting that the First Lady in waiting, Dr Jill Biden, should omit the ‘Dr’ in her title since she is not in the field of medicine. The piece was met with criticism, with several people, including Biden’s supporters and people in academia, calling the writer, Joseph Epstein (neither a medical doctor nor a holder of a doctorate degree himself) sexist and demeaning. Epstein refers to her use of the title as both “fraudulent” and “a touch comic”. Later in the piece he also calls her ‘kiddo’. Paul Gigot, in charge of the Opinion section of WSJ, defended the article and vowed to continue to publish “provocative” opinion pieces. Biden received her doctorate in education from the University of Delaware in 2007 and also holds two Masters degrees. Later that weekend in a tweet, she said, “Together, we will build a world where the accomplishments of our daughters will be celebrated, rather than diminished”. Northwestern University, where Epstein wrote that he had taught for 30 years, issued a statement saying it “strongly disagrees with Mr. Epstein’s misogynistic views” and noted he has not been a lecturer there since 2003. Doug Emhoff, the husband of the vice-president-elect, Kamala Harris, said in a tweet, “This story would have never been written about a man”. The Merriam-Webster dictionary noted in a tweet that the word ‘doctor’ comes from the Latin word for ‘teacher’, which first described theologians. Early arrival Christmas may be different this year, but one can still find a way to enjoy festive displays whether through socially distanced walks or drive-throughs in the comfort of one’s car. A family in Utah has created A Hamilton-themed Christmas light display. They have their own official Facebook page where the couple have been accepting donations and raising funds for United Way of Utah County’s Sub for Santa programme. Over on the East coast, the Holiday Light Fantasia display in Hartford, Connecticut is up and goes on for two miles. The display features over one million lights and has displays dedicated to Christmas, Hanukkah, New Year, Three Kings Day and much more. The proceeds benefit year-round programmes at Channel 3 Kids Camp. Hanging lights at home is a ritual for many families, but this year decorations came early. Houses were decked up with Christmas lights, with pictures and captions on social media drawing attention to how early it is to do so. In New York City, NBC aired its two-hour ‘Christmas in Rockefeller Center’ for the 88th annual lighting of the Rockefeller Christmas tree. Although the usual midtown crowd was missing for this spectacle, it was made up for by the presence of celebrities like Kelly Clarkson, Gwen Stefani, Jimmy Fallon and Dolly Parton. New hope The US has finally approved emergency authorization of the Covid-19 vaccine. Nurse Sandra Lindsay at Long Island Jewish Medical Center was the first American to receive the vaccine, outside of the Pfizer clinical trials. Doctors and nurses are the first in line to receive the vaccine. News cameras captured the moments of inoculation, a seemingly undramatic moment as it is no more than a shot in the arm, yet the historic moments were met with tears, clapping and cheering. The former presidents, Barack Obama, George W Bush and Bill Clinton are also volunteering to get their Covid-19 vaccines on TV to promote public confidence in the vaccine’s safety and encourage people to take it. According to a poll conducted in the first week of December, 32 per cent of Americans said they would not take the vaccine. They want to give it a few months and see how effective it is first. At the same time, anti-vaccine conspiracies have also spread online, many of them propelled by the right-wing conspiracy group, QAnon. There was a Facebook group (now removed) called “Stop Mandatory Vaccination,” which at one point had more than 2,00,000 followers.Footnote There was some unrivalled kindness at the drive-through of the fast food chain, Dairy Queen, in Minnesota with customers all paying for the meal for the car behind them. This went all the way up to 900 customers! It happened for two days, and the last customer gave the cashier $10 to start the chain again the next day. This led to $10,000 in sales. The store manager said that she had seen pay-it-forward chains that last for 15 or 20 cars, but nothing like this.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-100
19-12-2020||Opinion||Prejudice, not pride||In his book, Mahatma Gandhi: The Last Phase, Gandhi’s last secretary, Pyarelal, writes that the partition of India in 1947 and the horrific violence that accompanied it “provided a fruitful soil for Hindu chauvinism. Its most serious manifestation was infiltration of the Hindu middle class and even the Government services by the R.S.S. [Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh]. It had begun to command the secret sympathy even of a section of Hindu Congressmen.” Pyarelal then outlined for his readers what this organization of Hindu chauvinists stood for, and what its aims were. Thus he wrote: “The R.S.S. was a communalist, para-military, Fascist organisation... Their declared object was to set up Hindu Raj. They had adopted the slogan, ‘Muslims clear out of India.’ At the time they were not very active, at least overtly, but it was being darkly hinted that they were only waiting for all the Hindus and Sikhs in West Pakistan to be evacuated. They would then wreak full vengeance on the Indian Muslims for what Pakistan had done.” As newly-independent India grappled with the wounds of Partition and the plight of the refugees, it faced a serious threat from within, an internal enemy, so to speak. This was the rising tide of Hindu chauvinism. In the second half of 1947, the RSS was winning converts among the Hindu middle class, senior officials and politicians among them. However, two remarkable Hindus stood out resolutely against sectarianism and chauvinism. They were willing to stake their own lives to defend the rights of Muslims who had chosen to stay behind in India. These exemplary Hindus were the prime minister, Jawaharlal Nehru, and his mentor, Mahatma Gandhi. As Pyarelal wrote: “Gandhiji was determined not to be a living witness to such a tragedy. The Muslims were in a minority in the Indian Union. Why should they feel insecure as to their future as equal citizens in the Indian Union? It hurt him to see anyone live under fear, unable to walk with his head erect. Eager always to champion the cause of the under-dog and to identify himself with the down and out, he set himself to put heart into the Indian Muslims.” It is instructive to read these words today, seventy-odd years after the events they describe. In the second half of 1947 the RSS was a marginal player in Indian politics and public life. It hoped to increase its influence by exploiting the communal tensions of the time; fortunately for India, the organization’s rise was stopped by the resolve of Gandhi and of Nehru. Nehru made it clear to everyone in his government that India had no intention of becoming a Hindu Pakistan, while Gandhi fasted successfully for Hindu-Muslim harmony in Calcutta and in Delhi. Gandhi was murdered by an RSS man on January 30, 1948; and his martyrdom horrified and shamed his fellow Hindus, bringing them to their senses. The RSS’s designs were thwarted — for the moment. As I write this, however, the RSS is no longer marginal, but hegemonic in Indian politics and public life. The organization’s political front, the Bharatiya Janata Party, controls the Central government and many state governments. Large sections of the Hindu middle class are stridently vocal, rather than secretive, in support of their political and ideological agenda. Top civil servants, top diplomats, even some top army officials have abandoned their commitment to the Constitution and become partisan supporters of Hindutva and the ruling regime. Of the RSS’s core beliefs in 1947, Pyarelal observed: “Their declared object was to set up Hindu Raj. They had adopted the slogan, ‘Muslims clear out of India.’” The first part of that statement remains still entirely valid. The second half has been modified, if not in entirely salutary ways. In the immediate aftermath of Partition, many leaders of the RSS wanted to rid India of Muslims entirely. However, by the 1950s they realized that this was no longer feasible. The community was very large, and so widely spread out across the country that a full-scale purge was beyond anyone’s fantasies. Now the RSS’s attitude towards Indian Muslims was reframed as follows: Muslims who were born here and live here could stay on in the country, so long as they recognized the political, theological, social, economic, institutional, and moral supremacy of the Hindus. As I have pointed out elsewhere, this political model of the RSS is, ironically, borrowed from Islam — medieval Islam. In the heyday of the Caliphate, Muslims had distinctly superior rights to Jews and Christians. The latter were not explicitly persecuted; however, they had to accept an inferior, or second-class, status in order to raise their families and eke out a livelihood. Likewise, in India today, if the RSS prevails, Muslims shall have to accept second-class status too. Scholars have written many learned works on the history and sociology of the RSS. For its part, the RSS has published dozens of books and pamphlets seeking to explain to non-members what it stands for. Notwithstanding this large (and ever growing) body of literature, the ideology and programme of the RSS can be summarized in six words. These are: We shall show Muslims their place. The RSS claims to stand for the recovery, the restoration, the resurrection of Hindu pride. However, in practice, the beliefs and actions of the organization, and of the political party associated with it, are determined more by prejudice and paranoia than by pride per se. Consider thus the recent actions of the Union government, and of state governments run by the BJP. The destruction of the state of Jammu and Kashmir, the triumphalism about the construction of a temple in Ayodhya, the laws against inter-faith marriages, and above all the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the savage persecution of those who peacefully opposed it — all these are essentially animated by the desire to show Muslims their place. In Mahatma Gandhi: The Last Phase, Pyarelal wrote about a conversation that he was witness to in Delhi in September 1947. I quote: “A member of Gandhiji’s party interjected that the R.S.S. people had done a fine job of work at Wah refugee camp. They had shown discipline, courage and capacity for hard work. ‘But don’t forget,’ answered Gandhiji, ‘even so had Hitler’s Nazis and the Fascists under Mussolini.’ He characterised the R.S.S. as a ‘communal body with a totalitarian outlook.’” How do Gandhi’s views of the RSS hold up seventy-three years later? Very well indeed, except that the order of the adjectives he used might have to be reversed. Now, the RSS is perhaps better seen as a totalitarian body with a communal outlook, rather than the other way around. In 1947, the RSS was on the fringes of Indian life; in 2020, it is massively influential. The members of the RSS who control the Union government have subjugated the press, allegedly tamed the judiciary and used bribery and coercion to undermine or overthrow state governments run by other parties. The new laws aimed at curbing NGOs are animated by the desire to reduce to insignificance all voluntary organizations that do not owe allegiance to the Hindutva ideology. The RSS and the BJP seek to achieve dominance over the political process, over the institutions of the State, over civil society, even over what people eat, how they dress, and whom they can or cannot marry. This desire to control every aspect of life in the country, whether political, social, institutional or ideological, perfectly fits the textbook definition of ‘totalitarian’. Meanwhile, their continuing efforts to stigmatize and demonize Muslims clearly demonstrate their ‘communal’ mindset. Mahatma Gandhi’s characterization of the RSS in the second half of 1947 was then, and remains now, entirely (and disturbingly) accurate. Whether on the fringes of power or at the heart of power, the RSS has been nothing less, and nothing more, than a communal body with a totalitarian outlook. ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-101
