20-12-2020||Opinion||What does the term mob mean? ||What is so odd about looking up words? Yes, they are common words, but sometimes common can befuddle, no? I am looking up words. The British English word mob, for instance, is derived from the Latin phrase mobile vulgus, meaning fickle common people. The adjective mobile has been derived from the Latin mobilis, which means movable, easy to move, not firm. 'Mob' when used as a noun means a large, disorganised and often violent crowd of people. This sense of the term has been in use from the 17th century. According to Collins dictionary, people sometimes use the word to refer in a disapproving way to the majority of people in a country or place, especially when these people are behaving in a violent or uncontrolled way. Chicago Mob Some of the Thesaurus options for synonyms of mob are --- clan, crowd, flock, gang, horde, mass, riot, swarm, throng and troop. Others are assemblage, body, cabal, camp, coterie, crew, drove, gathering, rabble, riffraff… Mob is also one of the many terms for the Italian-American organised crime families operating in the United States since the early 1920s. The Chicago Mob is one such crime syndicate based, but obviously, in Chicago. The mob is also referred to as the mafia, the outfit and the office. In New Zealand, 'mob' placed at the end of the words 'mighty mongrel' becomes the name of a notorious street gang. In Australia, mob is used to refer to indigenous people and oftentimes used to connote family or community. It is also used to refer to a group of animals. For instance, a mob of kangaroos, a mob of sheep, a mob of cattle. This usage, as many point out, is free of judgement. farmer (n) Mob, in the context of video games, is short for mobile object blocks or the generic term for any non-player entity whose primary purpose is to be killed for experience or game objective. Non-player entity... hmm... sounds like pawns to me. But not all common words are so versatile. Take, for instance, the word farmer. It means a person who owns or manages a farm. Etymology, did you say? Sorry, I cannot dwell so on every common word. There is a long list --- citizen, government, democracy, justice... Sometimes you think you know a word.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-100
20-12-2020||Opinion||An old obsession||“‘My name is Ozymandias, king of kings:/ Look on my works, ye Mighty, and despair!’/ Nothing beside remains. Round the decay/ Of that colossal wreck, boundless and bare/ The lone and level sands stretch far away.” Shelley’s sonnet about the futility of what may be called ‘stone-ego’ has not deterred the mighty from building, rebuilding, demolishing, raising on the debris of what has fallen. Only to find their place taken by a successor debris, a successor hubris. Some have done it with great taste and their creations have survived. Like the magnificent Brihadisvara temple at Tanjore, the Sun temple at Konarak, the group of monuments at Hampi, the imposing forts at Gwalior, Jaisalmer, Mehrangarh, Golconda, Sinhagarh, the exquisite one at Orchha, the dreamy Peri Mahal of Dara Shukoh overlooking the Dal Lake in Srinagar and, of course, Shah Jehan’s Taj Mahal. The British raj followed this tradition and left us the Victoria Memorial in Calcutta and Lutyens’ New Delhi, of which Parliament House is the sceptre and Rashtrapati Bhavan the crown. And less known but not less admirable ones like the High Court building in Bengaluru, the Viceregal Lodge at Simla, the Governor’s Houses in Ooty and Darjeeling (rebuilt sensitively under the supervision of Governor John Anderson after the disastrous earthquake of 1934). These have not just survived but are alive with an outer and inner life of their own. Independent India has some outstanding examples of public architecture alongside far more thoroughly disastrous ones. The Somnath temple (raised under K.M. Munshi’s pioneering initiative), the Gandhi Mandapam (built in traditional stone architecture) in Chennai, the very Buddhist Vigyan Bhavan in New Delhi (rebuilt, after a vicious fire, under the supervision of the late Uttar Pradesh civilian, M. Varadarajan), the Vidhana Soudha in Bengaluru (mentored by Kengal Hanumanthaiya), the Muziris Heritage Project (Architect: Benny Kuriakose) in Kerala are admirable examples. And so if one may share Shelley’s disdain of stone-ego, one may also see and acknowledge a beneficent vein of good taste and good sense in several building initiatives. There has never been, in India, a time when public funds deployed for raising or restoring a building could not have been better used for the public weal. Poverty has been and is rife in India and may be expected to be so for the foreseeable future. And one may imagine someone somewhere (if not the department of audit & accounts) having tut-tutted each and every time all of these rose and said, ‘Can we afford this?’ For that matter, there may well have been the odd wiseacre who decried in Shah Jehan’s time the lavish spending from out of the treasury for the Empress’s grave. Famine was ravaging the Deccan, Gujarat and Khandesh then as a result of three main crop failures resulting in two million deaths due to starvation. And yet it was when India was in such a state that Shah Jehan thought of the grand mausoleum. That famine lost to memory, the Taj stands in all its glory. Irony is the story of India. And so, today, when there is a pandemic on, calling for unprecedented outlays, with clear marks of recession, acute distress among farmers, and the possibility of tensions along our international borders igniting a war, the reported allocation of Rs 22,000 crore for a new Central Vista in New Delhi, including an outlay of Rs 971 crore for a new Parliament House, seems ironic. Is this the time to spend scarce public money on breaking existing structures and building new public monuments? The matter has been taken to the Supreme Court. How it will be disposed of, no one can tell. It may choose to not interfere in what, all said and done, is a time-honoured executive prerogative. But while doing so, it could also do something more. Justice M.C. Chagla and Justice S.T. Desai, in a major decision on corporate funding of political parties in 1957, had ruled that the law of the day permitted it and said the Bombay High Court (before which the matter lay) would not interfere. But Their Lordships did something more. They said in a stellar obiter: “Before parting with this case we think it our duty to draw the attention of Parliament to the great danger inherent in permitting companies to make contributions to the funds of political parties. It is a danger which may grow apace and which may ultimately overwhelm and even throttle democracy in this country.” The two Hon’ble Judges performed their duty by the law and their duty by their consciences, both. Stone-ego is as old as the hills on which the great forts that I have mentioned stand. What the National Democratic Alliance government today is planning to do is not, in its essentials, different from what others have done — for example, the Commonwealth Games spendings of 2010 which included huge outlays on construction and renovation. The proposal for a new Central Vista reflects an old, worn obsession with the use of monumentalism to ‘leave a mark’ without realizing that not every such enterprise becomes a Brihadisvara or a Taj. The project is seen and shown up as being necessary and, in fact, as visionary. Is it? Our iconic Parliament House, a marvel of architecture and now a site of historic voltage, let us be realistic and admit, has become far too congested for functional efficiency. Hon’ble MPs sit cramped in the Lok Sabha. The office spaces given in its circular confines to parties are self-defeatingly small and, because of partitioning and cubby-holing, ungainly. With the Houses’ strength scheduled to go up on account of the highly overdue increase in women’s representation and after the delimitation due in 2026, the present building will be simply incapable of coping. India’s Parliament needs another site. No getting away from that. But it is short-sighted to find that ‘another site’ in Delhi. If Parliament House is overcrowded, the national capital is even more so. Its air became briefly clear when the city was under a total lockdown. But with unlocking, it is ‘back to normal’, which is to say it is claustrophobic. Delhi will choke without a lockdown, it will starve with it. Delhi needs fewer, not more, buildings. Air quality apart, we have forgotten something absolutely, foundationally, vital. The earthquake zoning map of India divides India into four seismic zones (Zone 2, 3, 4 and 5). Zone 5 expects the highest level of seismicity. Delhi stands, with precarious heroism, on Zone 4. It is time, high time, Delhi began shifting not just Parliament House but much of itself not to other parts of its crowded self but to other parts of India. And not after an earthquake has shaken the daylights out of it but before. The people of Delhi deserve this deliverance. South Africa — no small country — has one executive capital (Pretoria), one legislative capital (Cape Town), one judicial capital (Bloemfontein) and one business capital (Johannesburg). Why must the Republic of India remain a slave to Moghul and British raj geopolitical cartography? A five-year plan to thin the capital out into four different venues, with its Diplomatic Corps also relocated in a place that is safe for the lungs of its privileged population, is what we need. Anything short of that would be cosmetic, palliative. And by virtue of its ignoring environmental and seismic realities, dangerous as well. Looking into the future the Supreme Court will see this to be true. Will this not cost more than we can afford? It will cost less than what we may have to bear. India needs not a new Central Vista but a new decentralized vision, a turning of the page of India’s political history. And as such will save the national capital of India from becoming Ozymandias.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-100
20-12-2020||Opinion||The Congress family and The Family ||A section of leaders in the Congress does have reservations about Rahul Gandhi’s leadership and the raging discourse regarding family control over the party. Some political observers have also launched a campaign to suggest that the idea of India cannot be subjugated to one family. But that’s not what the truth of the Congress is. Congress workers across the country are deeply worried about the possibility of Rahul Gandhi not returning as president. Their only hope in that case is Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. It is difficult to find one party worker who suggests the names of other people for the role of party leader even as they acknowledge their importance in the party. Talk to any worker — be it from Gujarat, Bihar, Delhi or Madhya Pradesh — they are all praying for the leadership to remain within the family. They have no concerns whatsoever about the dynasty debate. Almost all of them believe the party will disintegrate if somebody else is made the Congress chief, although some are not averse to the experiment of Rahul Gandhi’s central role as the face of the party while some senior leader looks after the organization. But they are not amenable to any scheme without the centrality of the family. They vociferously criticize senior leaders who see the family as a burden, and are not ready to rid themselves of the belief that only Rahul or Priyanka have the charisma to revive the party with their pan-India appeal. This sentiment is not rejected fully by a majority of senior leaders, even those who are sceptical about Rahul’s leadership skills, and would prefer a collective leadership mechanism under the patronage of the family. The next few weeks are indeed critical for the Grand Old Party, which has witnessed countless upheavals in its long life. Politicians are known for changing their tune, but the Madhya Pradesh chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, has surprised many in the Bharatiya Janata Party. The adjectives that the veteran leader has been using these days to hail the prime minister, Narendra Modi, has amused many old timers of the saffron party. On Friday, while welcoming the PM to address a farmers’ convention in his state, Chouhan called Modi “hriday ke haar” or “the necklace of my heart”. This was surprising, since the fourth-term CM had been known to be a competitor to Modi ahead of the 2014 Lok Sabha polls. Not only was he a three-term CM at the time like Modi, but was seen as a more widely acceptable face to lead the party nationally. He used to wear a skull cap and hold iftaar parties. Unlike Modi in Gujarat, Shivraj had a cordial relationship with the Muslim community in his state. Gone are those days now. Sadly, Chouhan now is trying to follow Yogi Adityanath, the Uttar Pradesh CM, who is junior to him. The Madhya Pradesh government recently declared it will pass a law against ‘love jihad’, imitating what Adityanath did in his state. Currently, with the Central government in a difficult spot over the intensifying farmers protest, every CM from the BJP is in a race to please Modi. They are organizing farmers’ conventions to show big support for the new farm laws. Chouhan does not want to be left behind lest he gets edged out. Resort politics is being witnessed in Assam after the outcome of the Bodoland Territorial Council election, where a post-poll alliance of the BJP, the United People’s Party Liberal and the Gana Suraksha Party, with 22 seats, came together to keep the Bodoland People’s Front — the single-largest party with 17 seats — at bay in the 40-member house. As the anti-defection law does not apply to Sixth Schedule areas, the elected members of the three-party alliance have reportedly been kept in a hotel in Guwahati — it is around 226 kilometres away from the BTC headquarters in Kokrajhar — since the results came out on December 12, for fear of defection. The BPF, too, is said to have kept its members in Kokrajhar and a few in a hotel in Phuentsholing, a border town in south Bhutan, about 138 km from Kokrajhar. The alliance rank has swelled to 24 with the lone Congress member and a BPF member switching sides, but they are still seen travelling between Kokrajhar and Guwahati. The development, however, has exposed the insecurities of the BJP even though it is the ruling party in the state, kingmaker in the BTC and host to the BTC members in Guwahati. Losing the BTC after pulling out all stops to unseat the BPF will be more than embarrassing for the BJP before next year’s state polls. The Gauhati High Court directive to the elected members to maintain status quo till December 22 — when it will hear a BPF plea challenging the formation of the council — is only going to add to its insecurities. For the BPF, which had ruled the BTC since 2003 and which still considers itself an ally of the BJP in the state government, has not given up yet, matching BJP in muscle and money power — besides, of course, resort politics. At a time when the BJP enjoys a clear edge in attracting leaders from Opposition parties, it would be wrong to conclude that the Congress has lost its charm. Just when the Congress needed some young blood, its Karnataka state president, DK Shivakumar, held discussions with the independent member of the legislative assembly, Sharath Bache Gowda, the son of the BJP parliamentarian, BN Bache Gowda, who is set to join the party. After rebelling against the BJP, Sharath had contested and won as an independent candidate in the 2019 bypolls. The BJP had promptly sacked him. Now that the state is set for panchayat polls, Sharath’s arrival is expected to energize the youth in the Congress. As a party chief who wants to prove his mettle after losing the recent bypolls, Shivakumar is trying to inject new blood. One veteran that the Congress is missing in Kerala is AK Antony. Considered a clever tactician, the leader, who enjoys a rapport with the high command, has been out of action, and perhaps out of sync with the current crop of leaders in the state. The debacle in the local body polls is expected to send many to the doorstep of the diminutive Antony to realign the party. He still commands respect as someone who can bridge the gap between warring factions ahead of the state polls next summer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-100
20-12-2020||Opinion||Virulent unreason: Pandemic can root out voice of unreason, misogyny||Sir — Not even a pandemic can root out the voice of unreason and misogyny. The Brazilian president, Jair Bolsonaro, is proof of this. While launching the country’s mass inoculation programme he said that he would not be receiving the vaccine and went on to stoke doubts about the efficacy of the most promising Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine. Further, he said that the vaccine could turn people into crocodiles or, worse, make women grow beards and give men an effeminate voice. Bolsonaro’s ideas went out of fashion after the stone age. It is frightening to think that he is the leader of a nation.  Rima Roy, Calcutta Sir — At a time when protesting farmers have resolved to continue their agitations, a group of eminent economists have written to the Centre, requesting the government to repeal the farm laws, which they claim are not in best interests of small and marginal farmers. They have put forward five reasons why the three laws are fundamentally harmful for small farmers. Interestingly, the Supreme Court has asked the Centre to consider deferring the implementation of the contentious farm laws as a step towards resumption of dialogue with farmers’ unions. Earlier the court had suggested the formation of a panel to resolve the issue. In the meantime, more farmers continue to lose their lives and livelihood. One of them suffered a cardiac arrest, while another was killed in a road accident. So far, 30 farmers from Punjab and Haryana have died. Against this backdrop, the adamance of the Union government is inexplicable. It refuses to be reasonable. Instead, the minister for agriculture has written a letter to the farmers, repeating the government’s claims about the benefits of the three farm laws and criticizing the Opposition for allegedly misleading them. Considering the present imbroglio, the prime minister must take immediate steps to break the ice between the government and the agitating farmers’ unions. Khokan Das,Calcutta Sir — Even though the Supreme Court asked the Union government to look into suspending executive action on the three farm laws till the deadlock with agitating farmers was resolved, the Bharatiya Janata Party decided to forge ahead with its intensive outreach programme to farmers, explaining the advantages of the laws. The stalemate between the farmers and the government thus continues. Each side is waiting for the other to cave as peaceful agitation shows no signs of ending even in the biting cold of Delhi. The court would have to intervene more firmly for this to end. C.K. Subramaniam,Mumbai Sir — Angry farmers’ unions have objected to and criticized the prime minister, Narendra Modi, and the agriculture minister, Narendra Singh Tomar, for linking their protests with Opposition parties and declared that they will continue peaceful agitation till all the three farm laws are withdrawn. Rather than underlining the problems in repealing the three farm laws, Modi undermined his position as an accountable head of government. By linking the farmers’ protest to Opposition parties in order to divert people’s attention from the real problem the government is only trying to cover its mistakes. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — The pandemic has already pushed the Indian economy into a deep contraction. The ongoing protest against the new agricultural laws threaten to exacerbate the economic angst. For over two weeks now, thousands of farmers have been staging demonstrations, especially in Delhi. It is really unfortunate that talks between the government and representatives of farmers have failed to break the deadlock. Millions of small-scale farmers have lost their incomes owing to the falling prices of crops and rising transportation and storage costs. The Narendra Modi-led government must shed its ego and engage in constructive talks with farmers and amend the contentious Acts or formulate completely new laws. After all, it is the farmers who keep India fed. Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-100
20-12-2020||Opinion||The old man's back||They better not cry, they better not pout, ’cause Santa Claus is coming to town. In a world filled with uncertainties in a year of sea change in their lives, the World Health Organization has assured children that Santa Claus is immune to Covid-19 and will be delivering gifts like he does every year. It further added that Santa is not bound by travel restrictions. Cynical adults may see red at this — not because the portly, jovial old man in a red dress brings goodies only for children. ‘What business does a scientific-minded body like the WHO have, certifying the existence of a man flying around the world in a sleigh led by reindeers in this Age of Reason?’ could be their query. The rational world, after all, has held myths in contempt. Plato, consumed by his admiration for logos, dismissed myth as old wives’ tales. Rousseau measured the progress of the arts and sciences with the thermometer of reason. This tension between myth and reason has intensified further with the advent of modernity, wherein fantasy and the fantastic are looked down upon for being antithetical to science. Yet Santa Claus has survived Plato and Rousseau. Several surveys show that more than 80 per cent of children around four years of age continue to believe in the existence of a man who, his long years notwithstanding, remains ageless. Indeed, Santa’s endurance explains why myths endure. For these stories and their creatures are meant to be a balm on a primal human anxiety — the uncertainty that is the result of an ever-changing world. Hearteningly, the WHO has realized that during a year that changed the world — a vector has shut down schools, kept friends at a social distance, made adults moody — the unfailing arrival of Santa Claus can soothe children who can neither grasp the reasons for these transformations nor fully express their fears. Even rationalists and therapists have lauded the WHO’s ingenuity in tapping into the potential of myth to act as a salve on children’s fears. Studies have shown that a majority of children across the globe are experiencing loneliness and anger on account of the disintegration of familiar social institutions such as a large, supportive family. Their separation from, or loss of, grandparents may have amplified their troubles. The stuffed stockings this year would bring not just joy but also reassurance. India has a rich history of myths that offer a healing touch in divisive times. But the growing chasm between myths and rationality as well as the regressive political practice of dividing people through toxic mythology have led to a perception that myths are meant to lead societies astray. But there could be a case to argue that the vilification of myths is made possible because of their misinterpretation as an inferior form of reasoning. Unadulterated reason is being neutralized by social neurosis: otherwise, the dawn of the post-truth world could have been averted. Mythology, enriched with healing, compassion and even belief in flying oldies with hearts of gold, must be renewed to replenish the human spirit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-100
20-12-2020||Opinion||Those on who the sky fell  ||There has been an accident. As happens to accidents, this one too has morphed into BreakingNews, and that accident is now on a screen close to you. BREAKING: The sky is breaking! In fact, if you look up, although it is not advisable to look up, you can see it as it happens, live and exclusive only on... We’ll be right back after a short break, but while the sky breaks, keep watching. Welcome back, we are counting our BreakingNews of the sky is breaking and falling to pieces and coming down as we speak... there are live pictures, bhaaiyon aur behnon, yeh to hona hi thha... The sky was always going to break, and having broken, it was always going to fall. What were you thinking? You elect disaster and the disaster will stay at home? Disasters are exhibitionists by nature, a disaster that cannot become BreakingNews is a slur on the reputation of disasters; a disaster that doesn’t bound about and resound is like art that begins with an F, just what it never set out to be; shapeless, odourless, useless. Look up. Oh no, but don’t look up, it’s falling. No? Oh! Change of headline. BreakingNews: The sky isn’t falling any more. The sky has been stopped. But what happened? This could be a bigger disaster — the end of gravity. Oh no! Now we are going to all float up, helplessly and unintentionally, and come to hit that thing that has been hitting us. The sky is no longer falling, we are going to fall upon the sky. Beware sky, here we come, freed from gravity, freed of chains, zooming all the way up, and bring all the clanging of our shattered chains to the breaking sky! What an unmitigated mash of whipped pish and pother, people, but yeh toh hona hi thha... Let’s fall upon the sky, OnYourMarks, GetSet, Po! BreakingNews! We are falling upon the sky, these are live pictures we are bringing you, there is no viewer discretion advised because you are the viewer. So be discrete as you fall, you are live, no guarantees you will be alive at the end of this. If you can see above me, these are live pictures, for the first time ever, exclusive and only on this channel, images of the sky being fallen upon! This has never happened. But after all those wasted decades of NothingHappened, we promised you Happenings. And Happenings are happening. Never before Happenings. We could not afford the sky breaking and falling upon us, so we are falling upon the sky, even if the sky breaks again, even if we get broken in the process. The sky we must now allow to fall upon us. Look at how the sky has broken, those ominous splinters shaped like clouds, or disguised as them. Those are not clouds, they are bits of broken sky. They look like drifting, but they are not drifting. This way or that way. That’s their trick. They create the illusion of drifting, this way or that way. It’s a conspiracy, like everything is. They are actually coming down on us. The sky is falling. ChickenLicken was right, but, my apologies, I ate up ChickenLicken as she was panicking away from the falling sky. I let a wee piece of the sky fall on her. It killed her and then I ate her. Right off the skewer, gut and gizzard and all. I left nothing for FoxyLoxy either for FoxyLoxy had the same idea — let ChickenLicken call the sky upon herself, then gobble her up and go to sleep on the pillow of your swollen tummy. But no, I foxed FoxyLoxy and I ate ChickenLicken, sky and all. But there was always going to be more where the sky came from. And it is falling. And it must be stopped. We must fall upon it. Because if the sky falls on us, you know what will happen and there will probably nobody remain to say, yeh toh hona hi thha... Band karo, band! The trick to keep safe the flock Is a trick none knows, just I Hurry, you fools, fetch a lock And turn the key on the sky.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-100
