21-12-2020||Opinion||Free fall: indices of progress||India continues to perform poorly on global indices of progress. With the largest number of internet shutdowns in the world, India has recorded a third consecutive year of declining online freedom; it ranks 94 out of 107 nations on the Global Hunger Index 2020; and eight states have registered an alarming fall in sex ratios in the latest National Family Health Survey. But even tempered expectations are not enough to cushion some of the other blows. India has fallen two notches on the United Nations Development Programme’s Human Development Index, which measures standards of living, education and per capita income, to rank at 131 among 189 nations. It has also slipped an appalling 17 spots on the 2020 Human Freedom Index to stand at 111 out of 162 countries. The fact that India ranks higher than Pakistan, Nepal and Bangladesh on human development cannot be any consolation; more so since the rankings have alarming implications for political and civil rights in the country. India’s unsatisfactory performances on development indicators reveal steep contradictions as well as challenges that are interlinked. Life expectancy, for instance, has fallen in a nation with the world’s most extensive food security programme. Rising malnutrition is being expedited by climate change, which, in turn, has increased migration, widened income gap and posed significant challenges in the paths of girls’ health and education. What is mystifying is that India has elected the same government twice in spite of the nation’s dismal performance on such crucial parameters. This raises interesting questions. Is electoral success concomitant with pledges to improve the health and living conditions of the people? This query is pertinent because Narendra Modi’s successive and impressive election victory has coincided with marked deterioration on the ground — for the first time since 1998-99, India’s declining child malnutrition curve has been reversed, and child wasting has risen rapidly. Meanwhile, the ‘health’ of democracy is suffering as well. The passage of the contentious Citizenship (Amendment) Act, the stripping of Jammu and Kashmir’s statehood and the pushing through of three agriculture laws in the name of reform without representative consultations reveal the government’s unwillingness to accord weight to allegations of weakening constitutionalism. Discouraging data, however, are unlikely to make a difference to a dispensation that has reduced the ideas of democracy and development to aggressive nationalism, a majoritarian ethic and the cult of personality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-99
21-12-2020||Opinion||Hollow bellies: child undernutrition in India||Sir — The fifth round of the National Family Health Survey reveals disturbing trends as far as the burden of child undernutrition in India is concerned. Across the 22 states and Union territories for which the NFHS-5 has released fact sheets, the percentage of children aged 6-23 months who do not meet the minimum dietary adequacy is 83.9 per cent. This is a decline of over 2 percentage points from what was observed in NFHS-4. It would not be surprising if this situation has worsened with the spread of Covid-19 and the ensuing lockdown and job losses. Worse, the prevalence of anaemia among children has increased by about eight percentage points from 51.8 per cent to 60.2 per cent. These figures are based on anthropometric observations — children are defined as stunted, underweight or wasted if their standardized height-for-age, weight-for-age or weight-for-height ratios, respectively, are more than two standard deviations below the World Health Organization Child Growth Standards median. This does not take into consideration the adequacy and sufficiency of dietary intake. One shudders to think how many more undernourished children India would have if they were to be pathologically tested. A disproportionate focus on anthropometric measures inadvertently impedes meaningful and direct engagement with strategies and data necessary to address diet and food security concerns. India does not have a targeted nationally representative survey on the dietary intake and nutritional status of children or adults. A modern data initiative combining aspects of the NFHS, the National Nutrition Monitoring Bureau and the National Sample Surveys that would collect data on detailed household-level consumption and expenditure on various food items should be considered. Aditya Banerjee,Gurgaon Sir — Early data from the first phase of the NFHS paint a grim picture. This setback does not come as a surprise though. There have been several indicators of the slowing down of economic growth and employment distress, which are bound to have an effect on hunger and nutrition. The 2017-18 National Statistical Office report, for instance, showed a dip in consumption expenditure for the first time in decades. The economic crises precipitated by the pandemic-induced recession must have set India back further. India had made significant gains in alleviating hunger. But one after another faulty government policy and a general apathy towards the health of India’s women and children are the primary causes behind this sorry situation. The gender disparity in Indian society, which leads to poor education, lack of reproductive choice and inadequate nutrition from childhood, perpetuates a vicious legacy of undernutrition. Add to this misguided, religiously-motivated decisions like the one to knock off eggs — one of the cheapest sources of protein for children — from mid-day meal and anganwadi menus have finally taken their toll. The government has failed the future generations of India. Chandran Nallathambi,Chennai Intriguing life Sir — It was saddening to hear about the demise of John le Carré. He was working in MI6 — the British foreign intelligence service that the dashing fictional spy, James Bond, was written to have worked for — when he began writing fiction under an assumed name. Unlike Ian Fleming’s conspicuously heroic Bond, le Carré dealt with the real world where agents and double agents operate — he wrote about the human condition. Le Carré’s works can be re-read again and again and still be enjoyed anew; there is always some fresh nuance waiting to be discovered — few thrillers can make a similar claim. S. Rehman,Calcutta Sir — John le Carré, who was employed by the MI6 in the 1950s as an intelligence officer drew from his own rich experience to flesh out his novels. His novels made espionage terms like “lamplighters”, “cousins”, “moles” and “scalp hunters” so popular that it is said that even real British agents began to use them too. His works will be missed by fans of his writings around the world. English literature has lost a man of great wit, humour and intelligence. R. Mukherjee,Noida  Streetside delights Sir — It was delightful to know that hawker culture in Singapore has been added to Unesco’s list of Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity. Who better than a Calcuttan to understand the importance of hawkers? Be it shopping on the pavements of Gariahat, gulping down hot momos near Exide or sampling the delights that line the streets around the New Market area, life in Calcutta would come to a standstill without them. With patronage from the State — Singapore appealed to Unesco on behalf of them — hawkers could benefit financially and also not create a nuisance by blocking streets. Puranjit Sanyal,Kalyani Parting shot Sir — The mention of Ram Lalla raises hackles on all sides of the political divide. But it was a pleasant change to read that the deity has been given a blower heater in the temple, and been covered with a blanket. This is reminiscent of the gentler culture where gods are treated like family members — many Bengali households adorn their gods with sweaters and monkey caps in winter. These deities are unlike the vengeful Hindutva god. Roshni Sen,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-99
21-12-2020||Opinion||With care: personal laws and the state||There are numerous hurdles in the way of a country of multiple religions, languages, ethnicities and social arrangements trying to reach balance as a democracy. For example, uniformity in civil laws, such as in those of marriage, divorce or adoption, is thought to be a solution to the inconsistencies arising out of the practice of personal laws by different religious communities. Yet a uniform civil code has never been formulated: politicians baulk at the possibility of losing votes and are also reluctant to appear insensitive to deep-seated beliefs. The Supreme Court recently expressed its wariness about encroaching on personal laws while responding to two public interest litigations asking for equality for all citizens in the laws regarding divorce, maintenance and alimony. The petitioner presented the constitutional provisions violated by the functioning of different personal laws in this sphere and asked for one gender-neutral and religion-neutral law for divorce and its associated issues. The theme of the petition was that personal laws discriminated against women, as did the laws of maintenance and alimony of India’s largest minority community. The Supreme Court bench, headed by the Chief Justice of India, reportedly said that this was in effect asking for the nullification of personal laws, something the court could not do. When the petitioner mentioned the Supreme Court’s 2017 ruling that the practice of instant triple talaq was unconstitutional, the court pointed out that Parliament had legislated in that instance, which was not so in this case. The State had to intervene if personal laws encroached on fundamental rights; the court could neither abolish nor encroach on personal laws. The Supreme Court decided to examine the petition only with “caution”. It said that the government must decide on a uniform civil code since it had the “pulse of the people” — or it should have. The qualification is pertinent in the present context. The Bharatiya Janata Party is a loud advocate of the UCC, but has earned the distrust of minority communities by its Hindutva bias. Many considered the outlawing of instant triple talaq  with its stringent provisions a first step towards a BJP-favoured UCC. It is feared that such a UCC would be driven by the party’s agenda, not the principle of equality. The Supreme Court’s sensitive approach is salutary from that point of view.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-99
21-12-2020||Opinion||Violated core: Trampling over tourist zones||The vacation urge is riding the wave in this season of Yuletide, with hopes pinned on a vaccine to expedite the exit of a pandemic-riddled year. Home-shackled residents are booking touristy destinations with alacrity. The flip side of this verve is that VIPs in our democracy (Z-category ones included) often head to government-run facilities and disrupt the plans of the ‘common man’, sometimes exposing even wildlife to such overdose. Several political leaders are touring such holiday destinations now on the pretext of electioneering, unveiling projects or even escaping the wrath of farmers. With an unwieldy entourage in tow, they trample through tourism zones, their movements curbing the freedom of those who pay for their holidays and wait for months for a week’s respite. This is often the case with Kanha, the largest national park in Madhya Pradesh. It hurtled into the limelight again during the autumn festive season when legal luminaries of our nation landed in the tiger sanctuary in a helicopter and spent three days in the wildlife habitat. National parks in our country often witness VIPs camping in core areas, with forest officials desperately trying to please them by “arranging” big game sightings. I was witness to one such circus at Kanha when the chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, and his wife arrived in a gleaming helicopter that landed right inside the buffer zone. Certain routes (like Trail 7) where tiger sightings are likely were immediately closed to tourists, who pay through their noses for the open jeep safaris. Forest department elephants were appropriated to herd tigers to the trail along which the chief minister’s jeep traversed. Nearly a dozen tigers were sighted (read paraded) for their benefit. The Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, amended in 2006, specifies that the core zones or ‘critical tiger/wildlife habitats’ must be inviolate. The forest rest house, where the VIPs camp, is, however, located in the core area.First among equals In July 2012, the Supreme Court issued an interim ban on tourism in core areas of tiger reserves. In October that year, the apex court lifted the ban, but tourists can no longer stay in the core area. The VIPs are exempted of course; ours not to question why! Unfortunately, this scenario is prevalent everywhere in India, the world’s most populous democracy, where the voter is deprived at the cost of the leader he elects. Fresh pugmarks and loud alarm calls by deer and langurs do not always guarantee an encounter with the larger species. This leaves many visitors disappointed, but politicians arm-twist the forest management into breaking rules. In contrast, at Sasan Gir in Gujarat, the Asiatic lion habitat, a former state tourism ambassador failed to sight lions even after seven safaris, but was gracious enough to accept that catching a glimpse of the lord of the jungle is a matter of luck. Gir now has a safari park around 7 kilometres away from the sanctuary with some leonine inhabitants to assuage the disappointment of those who fail to sight lions on the forest safaris. Most national parks, however, do not have such a placebo for eminent visitors who disturb the wildlife and disrupt schedules of genuine tourists. Ironically, positive conservation activity is seldom harped on. Diligent volunteers from Calcutta have been training Kanha’s forest guides for years, making them the best in the country. Instead of lauding these efforts, we watched aghast as bureaucrats and local leaders, and even the forest ranger, raced through Kanha to pay obeisance to the VIPs. Surely a democracy underscores the need to restrain the first among equals? Be it the right of way or a vaccine, the VIP takes precedence. Has the Preamble to our Constitution (upholding ‘equality of status and opportunity’) been reduced to a ramble?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-99
21-12-2020||Opinion||Cause for cheer||We had begun to believe that the Bharatiya Janata Party is striding ahead with its steady demolition of secularism and free speech because the courts are not resisting its agenda. But a closer look at what happened in the courts this year offers cause for cheer. This has been a significant year for media practitioners and citizens in the courts. While the cases involving the Republic TV anchor, Arnab Goswami, grabbed the headlines, there were pushbacks in the Supreme Court against hate speech, with television anchors peddling such speech being refused relief. The courts also made observations decrying the addition of sections pertaining to sedition in first information reports. In Goswami’s case, none other than the frequently maligned Chief Justice of India observed that what his channel puts out is “not the kind of public discourse we should have.” This year’s judgments in the apex court have pushed back on hate speech in no uncertain terms. This month, a bench of the Supreme Court refused to quash the FIR registered against the News18 anchor, Amish Devgan, for his remarks against the Sufi saint, Moinuddin Chishti, while holding a debate on the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act, 1991. The judgment observed, “In a polity committed to pluralism, hate speech cannot conceivably contribute in any legitimate way to democracy and, in fact, repudiates the right to equality.” In September, a three-judge bench of the Supreme Court took a dim view of the lawyer, Shyam Divan, trying to make out a free speech case for the TV programme, Bindas Bol, which wanted to telecast an episode called ‘UPSC jihad’. Justice D.Y. Chandrachud disagreed. “This is not a freedom of speech issue. When you say students of Jamia are part of a conspiracy to infiltrate civil services, that is not permissible. You cannot target one community and brand them a particular manner. This is an insidious attempt to malign a community,” he said. And added, “As a Supreme Court of the nation, we cannot allow you to say that Muslims are infiltrating civil services.” This year, two high courts — the Punjab and Haryana High Court and the Bombay High Court — also rejected the invoking of sedition laws in cases which they felt did not deserve to be registered under Section 124A. While granting bail to a man who had vented on Facebook Live about the handling of the pandemic by the Centre and the state government, a judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court observed that the State needed to be more tolerant and circumspect while invoking laws pertaining to sedition and religious disaffection. And that being intemperate and abusive against government officials and elected representatives did not amount to inciting disaffection towards the government established by law. Likewise, the Bombay High Court, during the hearing of the Kangana Ranaut case, expressed concern over the ‘trend’ of adding the offence of sedition (Section 124A IPC) in FIRs. “If anybody does not fall within the line of the government, will that be sedition?” the presiding judge of the division bench hearing the matter asked the senior counsel representing Mumbai police. The offence of sedition has been added in the FIR registered by the Bandra police against the actor and her sister, Rangoli Chandel, over alleged communal tweets. This year has seen more than 3,000 protesters against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act being charged with sedition in January. So judges questioning the trend are to be applauded. Given that the term, ‘godi media’ (lapdog journalism), has gained much currency, the travails of the country’s most contentious television anchor have demonstrated that there are limits to how far aligned journalism can take you. When Arnab Goswami took on a non-BJP government, he lost the immunity his politics gave him, and his trajectory through the justice system in Maharashtra showed what politicized journalism can come up against. Even if the Central government and the ruling party bat for you, aggressive Opposition-ruled state governments can become your nemesis. That Centre-state politics moves the registration of FIRs first became evident this year in Chhattisgarh. The Maharashtra cases came later. Goswami’s first hearing this year in the Supreme Court in April came about because no less than 101 FIRs were filed across the state of Chhattisgarh against him for comments he made on his channel about Rahul Gandhi and Sonia Gandhi, with those against the latter being particularly offensive. Newslaundry reported that FIRs were filed in at least 20 of Chhattisgarh’s 27 districts, all of them by local Congress leaders and party workers. (The anchor posted a video on Twitter claiming that there were more than 150 FIRs, profusely thanking the Supreme Court for upholding his constitutional rights). The Maharashtra police for its part booked Goswami and his company executives later in the year in three or four different cases, and finally arrested him at home on November 4 after reopening an abetment to suicide case. The Bombay High Court denied him interim bail in that case, but the Supreme Court later granted it, reasoning that it was doing so because courts should ensure that “criminal law does not become a weapon for selective harassment of citizens.” (Arnab Manoranjan Goswami vs. the State of Maharashtra & Ors.) In October, while hearing the Maharashtra government’s challenge to the Bombay High Court’s June 30 stay on its investigation against Goswami, the apex court told his counsel, Harish Salve, that freedom of the press did not mean that a journalist should not be asked questions. The investigation was based on two FIRs filed against Goswami for allegedly inciting communal hatred through his coverage of the Palghar lynching and a gathering of migrants at a Bandra bus station during the coronavirus lockdown. Chief Justice S.A. Bobde sought an assurance of responsibility in reporting from Goswami, Bar and Bench reported, and told the anchor who has built his brand on baiting, “You can be a little old fashioned in reporting. Frankly speaking I cannot stand it. This is not the kind of public discourse we should have.” In December, Goswami’s company, ARG Outlier Media Private Limited, was back in the Supreme Court seeking protection for the group and its employees in the cases lodged against them in Maharashtra, including the charge of manipulation of television rating points. A bench headed by Justice Chandrachud declined to entertain it, describing the protection sought in the plea as “ambitious”. The bottom line then is that the Central government’s favourite journalists are no longer invincible. And the courts have begun to push back on hate-mongering and the bullying of the press and the citizenry by the police. The author is a media commentator and was the founder-editor of TheHoot.org||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-100
