22-12-2020||Opinion||Virulent fears: the anti-vaccination campaign||Even as the light begins to emerge at the end of a long dark tunnel, the shadow of misinformation and irrationality is getting longer. While inoculation programmes against Covid-19 slowly gather steam across the world with some vaccines showing promising results, the anti-vaccination campaign has also been gaining strength in a number of countries. Its perverse success cannot be attributed to ignorance alone. Anti-vaccine ‘activists’ seem to be exploiting the uncertainties associated with the pandemic to bolster their agenda. India is not immune to the anti-vaccination rhetoric. A survey conducted by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Johns Hopkins University found that in India, 25 per cent of the respondents were sceptical about Covid-19 vaccines. Significantly, social media has been turned into a potent weapon by the anti-vaxxers. Companies like Facebook and Twitter have promised to remove misinformation from their platforms but there is evidence to suggest that it may be difficult to weed out the mischief completely since services like WhatsApp — India’s WhatsApp user base is believed to be between 250-300 million — are protected by data encryption. It is, thus, important to address the root of the distrust. The arguments against vaccines range from the religious — some sceptics believe that the vaccines contain animal by-products — to the reasonable — vaccine trials that usually take years have been completed in less than a year to deal with the coronavirus. The culture of populism seems to have aggravated suspicions. The vaccine had been offered as a sop in the Bihar polls even though there is a lack of clarity about its efficacy, model of distribution as well as relevant protocols. But concerns with vaccines are not new in societies battling orthodoxy and illiteracy. There had been attempts to malign India’s pulse polio campaign with rumours that the vaccine would make people infertile. The bitter experience of some public health campaigns — contraception and sterilization for instance — had also made minorities anxious. Yet, it is the community as a whole that can resolve this challenge. In the United States of America, political leaders cutting across party lines have offered to be inoculated on TV to allay public fears. In India, a similar role can be performed by not just politicians but also doctors and religious and community leaders to assuage fears. These measures to boost morale must be accompanied by a determined effort to contain the spread of malicious information against the medicine. Resistance to vaccination can be dealt with, but it would require policymakers to be sympathetic to people’s anxieties and nimble in devising a counter-strategy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-99
22-12-2020||Opinion||Poor timing: standing committees' concerns||Appraisal is critical to assess not only the efficacy of legislations and policies but also the functioning of the democratic edifice itself. India’s Parliament is thus armed with several provisions and institutions to bolster such scrutiny. Standing committees, comprising parliamentarians cutting across political lines, play a crucial, supervisory role in this respect. They are expected to engage in critical discussions on issues — be they finance and expenditure, welfare policies or national security — under their jurisdiction. But are these bodies discharging their responsibilities with necessary urgency? This query has to be raised in the light of Rahul Gandhi’s letter to the Speaker, demanding the intervention of the Speaker’s august office to ensure that the agenda of standing committees remain consistent with their roles and objectives. Mr Gandhi’s ‘dismay’ may be attributed to his recent experience of attending a meeting of a standing committee on defence during which the chairman of the panel reportedly got the chief of defence staff and the top brass of the army, navy and the air force to discuss trivial issues relating to uniforms, colours and insignia won by the forces. Astoundingly, these matters — should not the defence establishment have the freedom to decide on these issues? — were taken up at a time when India’s border with China has witnessed considerable disturbances. There have been consistent reports of China encroaching upon Indian territory; brave jawans have had to sacrifice their lives in the course of the stand-off; to add to New Delhi’s troubles, several rounds of discussions with China have neither resulted in the restoration of the status quo nor offered a resolution to the festering tensions. Inexplicably, the standing committee on defence deemed it fit to discuss uniforms with army commanders even though India’s national security remains an area of concern. Another relevant question cannot be ignored either. A standing committee is a platform to strengthen the culture of consensus between the government and the Opposition. It would be difficult to achieve such unanimity between these stakeholders of democracy if standing committees are made to deliberate on all that is inconsequential. Institutional weakness seems to be contagious in New India. The Speaker must address the concerns that have been raised in Mr Gandhi’s letter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-99
22-12-2020||Opinion||Digest this: without milk and meat||A family that eats together, stays together. This was my grandfather’s favourite maxim. But mealtimes can be tense affairs in joint families. The latest cause of unrest in mine is my sister’s decision to go vegan. Each course is punctuated by arguments for and against her choice to shun milk and meat. My sister belongs to a growing community of people who believe that they have chosen a lifestyle that is pro-environment. The United Nations’ Food and Agriculture Organization estimates that the livestock industry generates nearly one-fifth of human-made greenhouse gas emissions. Yet piety isn’t synonymous with veganism; vegans seem to share problematic traits of food shaming and evangelism, the markers of India’s vigilante groups. This militant strain in Indian veganism may have been passed on from the West. The resultant myopia has led to the cult of vegans ignoring local context that must be factored into debates on meat production practices, consumption and, most fundamentally, personal choice. When shrill vegans speak of animal cruelty, the image that they usually have in mind is that of industrialized meat production that often takes place under stressful conditions in countries where per capita consumption of meat is higher than that of India. But context, as they say, is the key. The kochi pantha that floats in a bowl of caramelized gravy of the Sunday lunch has probably grazed on the savannah grasslands of Rajasthan — home to 21.5 million goats, about 14 per cent of India’s total goat population. Livestock farming need not be in conflict with local ecology: Rajasthan’s cattleheads are integral to the survival of the endangered Indian grey wolf. In Rajasthan, people are turning increasingly to animal husbandry in the face of reversals in agriculture. This interconnectedness among landscapes, species, communities, production and food often remains elusive to the raging vegans’ sensibilities. The vegan may respond by waving the ‘ethical’ avocado. Grown in large quantities in Mexico and Chile, where industrialized production of this plant has wiped out indigenous species and damaged biodiversity, this ‘conscientious’ fruit has travelled great distances to grace the vegan plate. Given the energy-intensive, temperature-controlled storage and shipping, not to mention the waste generated from packaging, a locally-made keema pav is likely to have a lighter carbon footprint than the avo-toast. What must also be kept in mind is that the primary drivers of climate change and the resultant disintegration of natural systems are economies that worship ‘infinite growth’, a system where exploitation of resources is proportional to economic growth. Do dear vegans know that producers of soya and almond milk — delicacies in the meat-hating universe — are complicit in this kind of avarice? Unilever, one of the biggest consumer goods firms in the United Kingdom, wants to increase its annual sales of plant-based meat and dairy products five-fold within the next seven years. It has its eye on pocketing an estimated one billion euros by 2027 — but not on the deep carbon footprints of almond and soya milk that are popular products in Unilever’s vegan ice creams. Over 80 per cent of the world’s almonds are grown in California, which has battled severe drought for most of this decade. Yet 6,098 litres of water are being poured to produce just a litre of almond milk. Another vegan favourite, soya, is a serious history-sheeter. Over the past two decades, 300 million hectares of tropical forests have been felled globally to sustain soya cultivation. The politics of food is already a fraught one in India: what one eats can spell the difference between life and death quite literally. The line separating religious bigotry against meat-eaters and the ‘ethical’ vilification of consumers of animal products seems to be blurring. Making personal lifestyle choices to reduce one’s carbon footprint is laudable. But to do so with unshakeable faith in the moral superiority of that choice is unwarranted. The consumption of meat and vegan products raise difficult questions that need to be addressed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-99
22-12-2020||Opinion||Double helix||It feels odd to lose James Bond and George Smiley within six weeks of one another. It’s true that Sean Connery had last played Bond nearly 40 years ago, and actually left the classic 007 behind much earlier. Likewise, David Cornwell/John le Carré’s oeuvre consists of a lot more than just the Smiley novels — he had finished the quintessential ones by 1979, again just over 40 years ago. However, Bond was what made Connery a household name and many would say the Smiley novels were the pinnacle of le Carré’s output. The realization hits that the passing of Connery and Cornwell in quick succession signals for people like me the end of a schizophrenic, stereophonic era, a termination of a bifurcated, twinned, double helix of a narrative that spins out over 60 years. I first came across James Bond in the late 60s, in a comic strip serialized in a Gujarati newspaper from Bombay. My parents subscribed to the daily which would arrive in Calcutta irregularly, sometimes nothing for days and then three papers at once, brought back by my father from his office in Barabazar. Not good with either English or Gujarati text, I would wait eagerly till my father unfurled the paper and showed me the four black-and-white panels on one of the back pages. The story was called Moonraker, and one gripping scene I remember going on for weeks was of Bond and a beautiful woman in his convertible Bentley being chased down a highway at night by the German villain, Hugo Drax, in his villainously German Mercedes. There was my father’s voice, reading the English bubbles and then the Gujarati translation given below, and there were the anxiety-making headlights fencing in the black, letterpress night. After a while I began to pick up English via Enid Blyton, and I promptly used it to decipher the scattered writing in the James Bond photo-magazine I’d picked up from the bookstall on Rashbehari Avenue. On the train to Bombay, two young women hesitantly pointed out to my mother that all those photos of women in bikinis and coming out of the bath and being handed a towel by Connery/Bond were perhaps not appropriate for an eight-year-old. My mother was unmoved. “He’ll understand what he does, but he’s mainly interested in the fighting photos.” I wasn’t incurious about the semi-naked women but my mother was right, my main focus was on the fights, the Aston Martin with the side-spikes on the wheels and the SPECTRE conclaves with the button-triggered seats that could eject you into the shark-pool just below the conference room. Much later I realized it was no coincidence that the Bond in the comic-strip looked just like the Bond/Connery in the photos. For a few years I was immersed in narratives that installed establishment-loyal Brits and Americans in a good-guy continuum from the Second World War onwards, with Germans, Russians, Chinese and various swarthies hailing from the Mediterranean, South America and Africa interchangeable as the baddies. But as the reading expanded, those assumptions frayed and then atomized. The Spy Who Came in from the Cold was one of the explosive torpedoes that holed the heavy cruiser of English-American fictional self-valorization. Reading it as a teenager, there was a shock of recognition that le Carré could not have intended: suddenly the Brit spymasters were as slimy and treacherous as those of my teachers I wanted to send down as shark-feed into Ernst Blofeld’s termination pool; the Americans were as bad, plus Yank-uncouth; the Soviets and the Germans remained evil but suddenly assumed three dimensions and nuanced colours; in the le Carré books there were equivalents of characters whom I had till then thought of as wholly desi, the bent cops, the sleazy politicians, the small-eyed, unscrupulous babus, the morals-mukt businessmen. Partly through the early novels of Len Deighton I’d already learned to recognize some of these characters as universal and to laugh at them. Through le Carré’s books they assumed their full rakshasik form, but with human frailties and foibles which the reader also had no choice but to acknowledge. Even if I didn’t then quite understand the hard-wired racism of Ian Fleming, nor recognize the constant, cheerful misogyny of the Bond books and films, the grimness of le Carré’s world connected to India, to Bengal, to bureaucratic file-swamps, and ugly and often meaningless blood-letting. At a basic level, meta-Bond, the novels, the films, the spin-offs and the merch, the spoofs, all of it is a project of denial of the evil of Empire as well as the disintegration of that Empire. With Bond the Empire is shape-shifted into visiting a newer version of the old ‘noble violence’ on deserving enemies, mollusced on to the American Imperium to maintain a morally laudable hegemony. Le Carré’s work is the direct and pitilessly detailed repudiation of these obfuscations and lie-powered fantasies. It is no surprise that the more spectacular, superficial super-spy gave rise to a myriad similar narratives in books, comics, films and computer games, even as the Bond movie franchise continues to put out new films under the ‘brand’, making billions of dollars in profit. Today, more than half a century later, you can see traces of that first James Bond of Casino Royale, ‘cruelly good-looking’ in his dandy clothes, in all sorts of movies from Indian counter-jihad sagas to Hollywood’s effects-bloated superhero productions. More importantly, what has inserted itself into the psyche all over the world is the idea of an amoral protagonist, with or without Bond’s expensive tastes and turbo-charged libido, freely utilizing, often relishing, his or her ‘licence to kill’ in the service of country or cause. Today you can find that Bond DNA in characters Irish or Iranian, Japanese or Jat; what identifies them with their mid-20th century progenitor is the gratification delivered by their usually solo authorship of bomb blasts, blood and gore, violent deaths. The influence of le Carré and his Smiley and his Circus is perhaps more subterranean, and you are more likely to find it in storytelling that aims at some complexity and depicting moral ambiguity, but the effect is nevertheless widespread. Many of us writing fiction in South Asia have no choice but to acknowledge the debt we owe to John le Carré. I can cite many different examples from sub-continental novels of the last twenty-odd years, but my favourite moment comes from Mohammed Hanif’s A Case of Exploding Mangoes, when the ISI officer picks up the protagonist-suspect for ‘a chat’. As they drive off into the night to what could be a fatally terminal interrogation, the officer points to the cassettes of music under the dashboard and courteously asks: “Asha or Lata?” The car is probably Japanese, the dangerous man Pakistani, the music, naturally, from Bombay. The old Cold War narratives may or may not be losing their topical relevance. New narratives have certainly taken over, bringing their own peculiarly gift-wrapped anxieties. A lot of what we face today was unimaginable when Sean Connery gave his first shot for Dr. No or John le Carré wrote the first sentences describing Alec Leamas waiting at a checkpoint for an agent to come across the Berlin Wall. A lot has changed,
the future is still dark, but the play of ominous headlights stays constant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-99
