23-12-2020||Opinion||Error found: Amit Shah's Bengal visit||Sir — As the Union home minister, Amit Shah, visited Visva-Bharati in Santiniketan under the guise of paying tribute to Rabindranath Tagore, his political agenda became clear. A security blanket costing a huge amount of public money was put in place. The whole affair made the august place of learning look like a fortress under siege. Four student activists belonging to the Students’ Federation of India and the All India Democratic Students’ Organisation were reportedly put under house arrest. This is unprecedented. Many eminent personalities have earlier visited the hallowed institution founded by Tagore. This includes former prime ministers of India. In fact, Jawaharlal Nehru was known to freely interact with the students of the institution during his visits. I can distinctly recall that once when Rajiv Gandhi, as prime minister, paid a visit to Santiniketan in the midst of a students’ agitation spearheaded by the SFI, he met and amicably discussed the issues raised by agitating students. On the present occasion, Shah could have easily invited the aggrieved students protesting against his visit and engaged them in talks over a cup of tea. Such fatherly affection could have been enough to win the hearts of students. But instead he exhibited arrogance, and a bitter anti-democratic mindset by exercising muscle power. In fact, his party is a constant defaulter when it comes to democratic gestures and practices. Another incongruous aspect that came to the fore is that Shah allowed his partymen to accompany him, thus injecting into the visit an element of party politics. It is hard to believe that Dilip Ghosh and Mukul Roy — who went with him — have much regard for the sublime ideas proposed by Tagore. The vice-chancellor, Bidyut Chakrabarty, should not have allowed this. S. Sarkar,Berhampore, Murshidabad Sir — Bolpur and Santiniketan were ready to welcome the Union home minister, Amit Shah, who was to pay a visit there. For this, political banners were hung up across Santiniketan. But protests broke out right ahead of the home minister’s scheduled visit because a sketch of Rabindranath Tagore was placed beneath the picture of Shah on a display board. It made it seem as though Shah was elevated above Tagore (“Look who’s elevated ‘above’ Tagore”, Dec 19). The home minister was perhaps not aware of this gaffe, but Anupam Hazra, the local leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party — his image was also there on the flex — should not have made this mistake. The boards, however, were removed soon after the protests began. The visit was reportedly planned to highlight the BJP’s cultural connect with Bengal before the assembly elections of 2021. But was it necessary to put up a sketch of Tagore on a display board that sought to promote the BJP’s political campaign? After all, Tagore was not exactly known for partisan politics. Even if his image were to be used, it should never have been placed below that of Shah. This is a gross insult  not only to the ‘Bishwa kobi’ but also to Bengalis at large. His dignity cannot be compromised. Hazra cannot deny his responsibility in this case. Rabindranath Sarkar,Calcutta Sir — The spate of gaffes by the BJP — the political party first got Rabindranath Tagore’s birthplace wrong and now its members in Bengal decided to place the image of Amit Shah above that of the revered poet on a flex — reveals how little it knows Bengal. If this is the level of the BJP’s understanding of arguably the greatest of Bengal’s poets, it is clear how poorly the party would understand Bengal and its culture. Besides, everyone knows about the old trick of having food at people’s houses with cameras watching. A lot of things may be wrong with governance in Bengal. But it is more frightening to think that there is a chance people could usher in a party that hardly has any connection with the place. Shrestha Chakladar,North 24 Parganas Let the games begin Sir — It was delightful to know that the sports ministry has approved the inclusion of four indigenous Indian sports — Gatka, Kalaripayattu, Thang-Ta and Mallakhamba — in the Khelo India Youth Games 2021. The sports minister, Kiren Rijiju, has rightly underlined India’s rich heritage of indigenous sports. The platform will ensure that athletes are able to showcase their talent while drawing attention to these sports of yore that have almost been forgotten. More such games might be included in the future. These sports, each with a unique local flavour, could inspire the younger generations. M. Pradyu,Kannur||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-98
23-12-2020||Opinion||New sport: yoga championships||From the very centre of the vista, all is new in New India. It is no wonder that yoga, too, has come a long, long way in this newness. Having the United Nations accept June 21 as International Yoga Day since 2015 was an undoubted triumph for Narendra Modi, an enthusiastic practitioner and promoter of this unique discipline in its most popular form. But now he, or the government he leads, is about to go one step further. The sports and the ayurveda, yoga, unani, siddha and homoeopathy ministries are planning national yogasana championships, with traditional and choreographed sequences, with fixed rules and promised titles. This would be a formally recognized, structured, sports event, to be built up with an eye on the Olympics. Spreading the practice of yoga for health is undoubtedly a good thing, and Mr Modi’s global advocacy of it may be a legitimate source of pride for Indians. No doubt the prime minister and his men see in this an impeccably ‘Bharatiya’ practice untouched by the West, as well as desired by it. By branding it as his favourite form of exercise, Mr Modi has erased all discussion about its possible origins, goals, history of transmission and practices allied to it in other countries, thus turning it into the Bharatiya Janata Party’s special mode of achieving health, discipline and, of course, regimentation. The Union government reportedly spent Rs 140 crore on Yoga Day from 2014 to 2019. It is hardly surprising that the Olympic Games should be the final goal. Does India then hope to gain fame in yoga as ‘structured sport’ since it does so poorly in most competitive events? That would be unsurprising too. What does surprise, however, is that the devotees of yoga should turn it into a competitive sport, thus demolishing the basis of the practice. Yoga, even in its most popular form, seeks a balance of mind and spirit through the balance of the body; it encourages inwardness in a search for harmony with the rhythms of the universe. It is not, at least in Old Indian thinking, a matter of competing physical accomplishments. But this is New India. It is obviously more important that India win the Olympic gold in yogasanas. And that more public money be spent to reach this goal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-98
23-12-2020||Opinion||Yellow fever: promise of 'Sonar Bangla'||Civilization has been under the spell of the yellow metal since time immemorial. The myth of the city of gold — El Dorado — refuses to fade away. Politicians — members of the Bharatiya Janata Party are a case in point — are also in the habit of talking of a golden past or, when elections come calling, promising a golden future to the people. So the Union home minister’s vow to turn Bengal into Sonar Bangla within a stipulated time frame is only to be expected in this season of elections. Amit Shah’s contentions about Bengal’s challenges cannot be brushed aside. The flight of capital compounded by years of militant trade unionism as well as political corruption has blighted the prospects of an economic renaissance. Yet Mr Shah’s assurance needs to be taken with a pinch of salt: the BJP’s record of running India in the last six years is far from glittering. Under Narendra Modi’s benevolent vision, the nation’s slide on critical parameters has been steep and, hence, worrying. India clocked its highest ever unemployment rate with the BJP at the helm; per capita income is expected to fall even below that of Bangladesh; the deepening agrarian crisis, manifest in the farmers’ protests, remains unresolved; radical experimentation in the name of reform — the demonetization exercise is a classic example — has decimated the vulnerable segments of the economy. Social strain complements the nation’s economic decline. India’s plural, accommodative spirit has been weakened by a surge in majoritarianism. Equally discernible has been the inertia of critical institutions responsible for keeping an aggressive executive on a leash. Significantly, the BJP seems eager to replicate its template of division in its attempt to claim Bengal’s political crown. Even though he was evasive about the contentious National Register of Citizens, Mr Shah spoke about the implementation of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, a controversial legislation, which has been spiritedly opposed by large segments of people in Bengal. The dissenting voices did not belong to minorities alone. The BJP’s is also hoping to gain political capital by raking up the issue of minority appeasement, yet another polarizing claim. Its promise to rid Bengal of corruption is a bit rich, given the fact that it has roped in defectors from the Trinamul Congress who are accused in multiple cases of financial irregularity. The BJP is hoping to strike gold in the state, but that need not assure Bengal of a golden future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-98
23-12-2020||Opinion||Rough edges on the red carpet||When Donald Trump turned down India’s invitation to be chief guest on Republic Day in 2019, some of us wondered if New Delhi was having a bad hair day — or if it had escaped one, given the strange orange plume the American leader wears. Trump eventually visited in February this year and, now, the bad hair jokes have returned. The British prime minister, Boris Johnson, Trump’s hair twin, has accepted India’s invitation to attend the January 26 celebrations next year as chief guest. But the Narendra Modi government will be thrilled if that’s the substance of any tough questions it faces over its choice of Johnson as chief guest. Johnson will be the first British prime minister to oversee Republic Day since John Major in 1993. But unlike Major, who visited early in his term as prime minister at a time the West was still celebrating the demise of the Soviet Union, Johnson will arrive days after the United Kingdom would have left the European Union in less than ideal circumstances, after rushed negotiations that might or might not yield a deal. Back in 1993, it was India that was on the defensive: it was facing global criticism after the demolition of the Babri Masjid in December 1992, and Mumbai (then Bombay) was burning in the communal clashes that followed. This time, the roles are reversed. That means India might have a chance of resetting the relationship with the UK on terms that are more favourable to it than has been possible for several years. For starters, Britain will be looking to show that it still has economic friends and will be keen to demonstrate progress on a trade deal with India. New Delhi, too, would love a quick trade bargain with the UK — or at least public messaging that suggests that such a deal is on the anvil. It would enable the Modi government to put pressure on the EU, soon after the latter’s divorce with Britain, to agree to some of India’s demands on the trade pact that Brussels and New Delhi have been discussing for more than a decade. All good then, right? Hold on. Last week, we got a taste of how things could unravel when the British foreign secretary, Dominic Raab, met the foreign minister, S. Jaishankar, to discuss plans for the Johnson-Modi summit that’ll be held on the sidelines of Republic Day. Raab cited the large and influential Indian diaspora in Britain to raise London’s concerns over the ongoing farmers’ protests in India. Johnson’s Conservative Party benefited from enhanced support from the Indian community in the UK in the last general elections in 2019. It was a thinly veiled secret that outfits and individuals associated with Modi’s Bharatiya Janata Party worked to rally support for the Tories and against the Labour Party after leaders of the latter criticized New Delhi’s actions in Kashmir. Yet whipping up pro-New Delhi sentiment on Kashmir is one thing; turning that into anti-farmer views among the diaspora is a far tougher — if not impossible — challenge, given the significant family ties many in Britain have with Punjab in particular. If the farmer protests continue through January, they could cast a shadow of uneasiness over Johnson’s visit. So far, the government has done everything in its power to alienate the protesting farmers, and nothing to genuinely resolve the crisis. But the protests are only one potential headache that could upend the thinking behind inviting Johnson. India wants the UK to restore its earlier approach of welcoming working immigrants. But that will not be easy for a Johnson government to justify at a time anti-immigrant sentiment is among the bedrocks of the opinion backing Brexit. The biggest challenge for India, though, might be more long-term. The British prime minister’s popularity ratings, which spiked in April after he suffered from Covid-19 and recovered, have crashed in recent months, according to polling group, YouGov. That’s hardly surprising given the Johnson government’s bumbling negotiations with the EU over a potential Brexit deal. Johnson and his team have met EU leaders, including the European Commission president, Ursula von der Leyen, multiple times in recent days to try and hammer out an agreement. So far, they’ve had no meaningful breakthrough and while Johnson has tried to prepare the British public for the possibility of no deal, European leaders such as the French president, Emmanuel Macron, have also taken increasingly tough postures against London’s demands. In the event that Britain leaves the EU without any deal at the end of this year, public sentiment in the UK against Johnson might grow further. Though he won a comfortable victory in the general elections of 2019, questions will grow over his political future. And if Johnson stands politically weakened, his ability to move forward with any deal struck with India would diminish substantially. Much as governments like to convince people that they’ve got everything under control, luck often deals its own cards. Trump’s loss in the US election is a reminder that investing too heavily in individuals with an insecure future — as Modi did with the US president in the months leading up to the November vote — can be dangerous. New Delhi will hope its second Republic Day gamble in as many years pays off. We might know as soon as January 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-99
23-12-2020||Opinion||History at the gates||The remaking of a nation is typically a process that unfolds at a glacial pace over time. A few bellwether events however stand out, both as catalysts of change as well as signs for posterity on how the nation was remade. Siraj-ud-Daulah’s defeat at Plassey, the reconstruction amendments after the American Civil War abolishing slavery, Nelson Mandela’s release from Robben Island are some events to which historians have attributed special significance in shaping the future course of history of their respective nations. Whenever India has a government led by the Bharatiya Janata Party, there is a narrative that the nation, founded on values of the freedom movement helmed by the Indian National Congress, is being slowly remade. Central to such a narrative is the cultural project of the BJP — asserting the rightful place of Hindus in the nation. That project is well-documented and such a national remaking is core to the raison d’être of the BJP. But with the passage of the three farm laws in Parliament, the prime minister has demonstrated a definitive intent to remake the nation economically. Sure, there have always been murmurs that BJP governments have traditionally been best friends of big business. But that is something that can be truthfully said of all major political parties in post-liberalization India. Yet, the farm laws are the boldest and most candid declaration by the BJP that New India will not be founded on a mai-baap sarkar but rather with the hard work of the individual farmer supplemented by the enterprise of the private sector. This is as bold as it is surprising. At its core is a seriously contested economic argument for farmers’ prosperity. That Indian agriculture is not as productive as it can be is an acknowledged fact. Small land-holdings, the lack of credit available to farmers, outdated farming methods, scores of middlemen and a skew towards paddy and wheat owing to selective government price support all contribute to this state of affairs. The new laws choose to address one dimension of the problem — the dominant role of the State in Indian agriculture. To this end, one of the new laws ends the monopoly of the government’s agricultural produce market committee that runs the local mandi. It gives farmers and traders the freedom to trade in any trade area, including on an electronic platform. The second law, in tandem, empowers farmers to enter into contracts directly with buyers bypassing middlemen who are an endemic feature of Indian agriculture. The third law, an amendment to the Essential Commodities Act, is most revealing — it limits governmental intervention in the agricultural market only in extreme cases of war, famine and so on. This, as the government has been at pains to point out, has nothing to do with the minimum support price for paddy and wheat, which is not provided under the Essential Commodities Act. Nonetheless, it is a clear sign of the determination of the government to be a facilitator rather than an active price-setter and regulator of Indian agriculture. This is a distinct vision of how Indian agriculture can grow from the State-supported model in vogue at present. Central to this vision is the growth of new agri-businesses, which are expected to compete with State procurement processes. Whether such businesses will lead to greater benefits for farmers or worsen their lot is a hypothetical question that can only have hypothetical answers at present. But the bottom line is this — the new laws provide options to farmers to either sell to the State in the mandi or to private producers outside it. Simultaneously, it opens up the sector to a range of private actors whose enterprise is expected to make the system more productive. This combination of individual choice and invitation to enterprise is not primarily an economic argument for reform — it is an ideological one. Economic libertarianism of the kind that underlies the farm laws — remove the State from the equation and let the market show the path to prosperity — has largely been tangential to traditional Indian right-wing thought. This conflation between the cultural right and the economic right in recent times is a fundamentally American idea born out of a distrust of the State and the championing of limitless individual freedom. The Indian right has never shared this distrust of the State or advocacy of individual liberty. In fact, with the exception of the Swatantra Party, the major intellectual strand of right-wing politics in India, the Jana Sangh and now the BJP moored by the philosophy of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, has been that of cultural conservatism together with a swadeshi State that plays a dominant role in the economy. In some senses, that is classic conservative politics — as Eric Kaufmann has recently written, “Most voters lean left on economics and conservative on culture but no one represents them.” This is whom the BJP has traditionally represented, more so with the diminishing political smartness of the Left in India. But with the farm laws, the BJP has taken a distinct libertarian turn on economics. As a party avowedly resolute about reform, it could have chosen to reform Indian agriculture in a number of ways — conclusive land titles for agricultural landowners would have been a game-changer that would increase the creditworthiness of farmers in one stroke. That it chose to whittle down the role of the State, something that it hasn’t done despite indications that it would do so to the MGNREGA or to the National Education Policy, is an unraveling of the traditional understanding of the Indian right. From a culturally conservative party, it is also becoming the Indian variant of the Republican Party of the United States of America — imbued by the doctrinaire belief that small government is the way to prosperity. This is why the protests against the three farm laws enacted by the National Democratic Alliance government are the sternest test yet of the resolve of Prime Minister Narendra Modi of remaking the nation. The protests against the CAA-NRC, almost a year to the day, despite their largescale support and longevity, made no headway in their objectives. This was unsurprising given the focus of the protests was support for minority groups that are politically unimportant for the BJP. But the farmer protests are an entirely different kettle of fish. After all, the kisan in traditional political terms is the annadata, to be given free electricity and exempted from payment of taxes. Electorally, given that agriculture is the primary source of livelihood of 58 per cent of the Indian population, the vote of the farmer is the holy grail. When faced with such largescale farmer protests, the prime minister was quick to offer compromises ‘with folded hands and bowed heads’ — clause-by-clause readings, amendments and assurances that the MSP would not be touched. Only time will tell whether this is smart politics to fulfil his new economic vision or an unraveling of the vision itself. Each of the prime minister’s offers demonstrates the knife-edge the nation is on at present. In their resolution lies the ultimate answer on whether the farm laws will be a bellwether event in the remaking of the Indian nation or simply yet another footnote in the glacial changes always afoot around us. The Singhu and Tikri borders are no longer mere outposts — they are the sites where history is being written. The author is Research Director, Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy.Views are personal||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-99
