24-12-2020||Opinion||Great flood: India’s climate refugees||The Covid-19 pandemic has, ironically, thrown into sharp focus the plight of a largely invisible constituency — India’s migrant population. After the Centre hastily imposed a poorly-planned lockdown to check the march of the disease, public discourse was dominated by horror at the stories and images of the suffering of migrants who, lacking food, shelter, medicines and employment, were forced to walk great distances to reach home. Many of them died on the way in accidents or on account of exhaustion. What compounded the crisis was not only the government’s abject failure to anticipate the needs of this constituency but also its shocking indifference to the importance of maintaining a database on migrants that could have helped formulate targeted welfare interventions. It is to be hoped that the Centre as well as the state governments have learnt their lessons from the suffering of the multitudes. This is because yet another Great Migration is now in the offing, even though it remains under the radar. A report released by ActionAid International and Climate Action Network South Asia estimates that over 14 million people in India were forced to migrate this year because of the onset of the debilitating impact of climate change — a rise in sea levels, water shortage, drought, reduction in crop yields and loss of biodiversity. The number is likely to increase to over 45 million by 2050. There is data to suggest that climate displacement is a growing phenomenon: a 2018 World Bank study had projected that 143 million people would become climate refugees in sub-Saharan Africa, Latin America and South Asia by 2050. The implications of these findings are ominous for a resource-strapped country like India. Its crowded cities — the most likely destination for this mobile population — lack the civic infrastructure, including water, food, housing, sanitation and healthcare services, that is required to absorb this deluge. This will lead to an unprecedented humanitarian crisis. Worse, climate refugees are not recognized under most international laws, including the 1951 Refugee Convention and the 1967 Protocol relating to the Status of Refugees. The absence of a protective legal edifice could render them vulnerable to different kinds of depredation. Incidentally, a study in 2018 had warned that climate migrants, desperate for security and work, would fall prey to human trafficking. The international community has been appreciative of India’s efforts to honour its commitments made under the Paris pact. But a lot remains to be done to mitigate the accompanying humanitarian costs of a changing climate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-98
24-12-2020||Opinion||Lead by example: Joe Biden gets Covid vaccine||Sir — It was extremely reassuring to see the president-elect of the United States of America, Joe Biden, receive the first course of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine at ChristianaCare Hospital on live television. Several high-ranking officials along with anti-vaxxers continue to discourage people from getting vaccinated against Covid-19. With over 3,23,000 deaths in the United States of America, this is extremely dangerous. This gesture by the 78-year-old Democrat will go a long way in assuring people of the safety and efficacy of the vaccine. This is the only way that we can protect our loved ones. Aloka Ganguly,Chicago, US Renewed fight Sir — The emergence of a mutated variant of the coronavirus in the United Kingdom has led to a surge in Covid-19 infections across the country and has spread a renewed sense of fear around the world (“What we know about the virus mutant”, Dec 23). The British government has warned that the potent new ‘mutant strain’ is out of control and has imposed a stringent Tier 4 lockdown in most parts of the island nation. The newly identified strain of the coronavirus is up to 70 per cent more transmissible than the original form of the pathogen. This revelation has led to a worldwide scare with a number of countries temporarily banning flights to and from the UK till December 31. It is unfortunate that this news emerged right before Christmas, when people, relieved by the success of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, were hoping for a joyous celebration. However, people, be it in the UK or in Calcutta, must remain cautious and keep social interactions to a minimum. Calcuttans, just like on  every other Christmas, are already thronging to places like Park Street and Eco-Park and can be seen blatantly disregarding social-distancing norms. The government in Maharashtra has taken the right decision to impose a seven-hour night curfew till January 5 in view of the spread of the mutant strain. The West Bengal government must follow suit and impose similar restrictions. Samares Bandyopadhyay,Calcutta Sir — The news of the detection of a novel variant of coronavirus and the spike in infections in the UK has caused consternation across the world. The UK government has swiftly responded by imposing tougher measures and many countries have put in place travel restrictions to the UK. It is, however, possible that the mutant strain is already circulating in many other parts of the world. This revelation comes at a time when authorities have begun to roll out Covid-19 vaccines. It is feared that the new mutated strain could be a setback in the global fight against the pandemic. As it is 70 per cent more transmissible, it will require a modified response. While there is no strong evidence that this strain is any more severe or deadly, we must nonetheless remain vigilant. It is hoped that the vaccines that have been developed so far will be effective even against the new strain. At this point all we can do is hope for the best. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — It seems that the new coronavirus strain that has been discovered in the UK is causing a sense of panic all around the world. Not only is it mutating faster but the new variant, called lineage B.1.1.7, contains 23 different changes, many of which are associated with alterations in a protein made by the virus. The saving grace is that so far it seems that the novel strain does not have a higher mortality rate. According to the World Health Organization, three other countries have already reported the presence of the mutant virus. Cases have already been reported in Turkey, Denmark, one in the Netherlands and another in Australia. It is, thus, good to hear that India has halted all flights between the two countries till December 31. Whether this virus is dangerous or not, we need to be more careful than before. The delayed response to the initial outbreak of Covid-19 had led to the government imposing a months-long nationwide lockdown which resulted in immense hardships for people all over the country. It is time that we learn from past mistakes. Abdussalam Shaikh,  Mumbai Sir — The sense of panic that is being caused by the lineage B.1.1.7 mutant strain reported by the UK is reminiscent of the early days of the pandemic. Prioritizing public health, the government in the UK has once again imposed a strict lockdown. In spite of the panic, it must be pointed out that it is commonplace for a virus to mutate. The best way forward would be to continue to follow social distancing norms and restrict travel. As it does not seem that the mutant variant is any more deadly than the dominant strain, it would be wise to go ahead with the mass inoculation as planned. But governments as well as the scientific community must continue to monitor the situation and address any complications that arise right away. A complacent attitude will only hinder recovery. Venu G.S., Kollam, Kerala||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-98
24-12-2020||Opinion||No difference: Mr Modi's AMU speech||Few can match the prime minister of India in inspiring speeches. Speaking on the occasion of the centenary of Aligarh Muslim University, Narendra Modi celebrated the institution as a mini India in its diversity, symbolized apparently by the teaching of Urdu, Arabic, Persian languages, Islamic literature and Sanskrit side by side, and its ability to ‘craft’ and ‘polish’ students into a scientific and modern mindset with which they serve society and nation. The university’s contribution to the PM-Cares fund — compulsory in most academic institutions — which the prime minister mentioned may have enriched the eulogy. Mr Modi said that AMU was providing new energy to India’s cultural relations with the Islamic world. Why new? Which Islamic world? The prime minister’s admiration that women made up 35 per cent of AMU’s students, together with his claim that toilets from the Swachh Bharat Mission had reduced Muslim girls’ dropout rate from 70 per cent to 30, was, perhaps, touched with condescension, a tone that underlay much of his elevating rhetoric. Mr Modi’s theme was that politics can wait, but development cannot. Development should not be seen through a political prism, as some negative and self-interested people do. Religious and ideological differences should therefore be set aside for the sake of national aspirations, Mr Modi’s ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’, ‘Naya Bharat’. Nobly said. His emphasis on the absence of discrimination — much repeated — could perhaps erase memories of the police’s entry into AMU to suppress students protesting against the citizenship laws last December, of a Bharatiya Janata Party leader’s demand that Mohammad Ali Jinnah’s picture be removed, or of the labelling of the university as a ‘nest of terrorists’. The prime minister saw nothing political in packing his speech with the excellent results of his government’s various schemes or in his claim that differences had wasted the country for 70 years. At last India was on a path towards national glory in which religious or other differences would not be a disadvantage with regard to progress and constitutional rights. To find the speech hollow amid discriminatory moves and targeted violence would be ‘negative’ in Mr Modi’s sense. The university just happens to be located in the same state that saw the destruction of Babri Masjid and now has a law against the mythical evil of love jihad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-98
24-12-2020||Opinion||Robert Fisk: The chronicler of conflict||When I reached Cambridge in 1989, I began to subscribe to The Independent because of my interest in Robert Fisk. I had already read his precise writings with undimmed anger on the politics of Northern Ireland, the Lebanese Civil War and the Carnation Revolution in Portugal in 1974. I recall his perceptive documentation of the carnage of thousands of Palestinians by Israel at Sabra and Shatila in 1982. Being on the spot, he was the first to speak out against Israel and the American involvement in the region, showing a nerve few reporters would today. John Pilger and Robert Fisk are two war correspondents who have long been regarded as dissenting voices, their only enthusiasm being the pursuit of truth in their own different ways and going to great lengths, in the words of Pilger to “[report] from the ground up, from the point of view of both civilians and combatants because most wars now are against civilians directly or indirectly”. What matters most is being with those who are under fire. This is vital for journalists to comprehend the agenda of the conflict, more so from the viewpoint of history. History, according to Fisk, is what underpins the craft of reporting: “One of the things I always say to some of my younger colleagues when they’re going off on a story is take a history book. Don’t just go there and report it as if it’s a crime story. Take a history book.” For his reporting on the Middle East, Fisk had come to grips with the Holocaust, the Armenian genocide and the nature of new states being ‘carved’ out of the Middle East. The flourish of his intellectual confidence and his unflinching commitment were apparent in every piece that he wrote. As a journalist, he was not without his political concerns for Palestinian nationalism and the continuous turmoil that had become its nightmare. Fisk never minced his words on the urgency of addressing the question of debate and dissent when it came to important issues facing the world. “We need to stand up for commitment to a more open society where the basic human values and the virtues of independence of thought, are upheld.” This was the raison d’être of his ideology, a robust attempt at defining the essence of democracy. The public world pressed insistently on his private world, enabling him to use journalism to “challenge authority, especially so when governments and politicians take us to war”. For example, his mood of impassioned critique on the deplorable role of Tony Blair in leading Britain to war in Iraq was to a great extent a reflection of the public mood of anger in the country against the leadership for its entry into war on the grounds of a hollow nationalism. He held the affairs of the underdog and the value for human life in a wider perspective as opposed to the short-sighted expediency of his country’s leadership. Not hesitating to write convincingly on Nato’s propaganda operations during the 1999 bombing of Yugoslavia and Kosovo, he underscored the professional imperatives that determined his stand, and not the military pressures and market forces that often signify biased reporting. As he wrote scathingly, “Most of the journalists at the NATO briefing were sheep. Baaaa Baaaaa! That’s all it was.” Fisk died in October this year. His death leaves behind a vacuum in the intellectual world. Fisk couldn’t make it to Beirut where he had lived for over three decades, engaged in daring frontline reporting on the Russian invasion of Afghanistan, the Iranian revolution, the Iran-Iraq war, and the invasion of Iraq in 2003. But his haunting presence and fearless disposition would continue to influence war journalism for years to come. Fisk’s meetings with Osama bin Laden in the 1980s or with the Libyan dictator, Muammar Gaddafi, will be long remembered for his courage and sharp-eyed analysis, an inspiration for war correspondents for times to come. Fisk evolved a new vocabulary and a daring style to transform our understanding of conflict into a meaningful experience, something that every reader could relate to in his/her everyday life. His razor-sharp prose made sense of contemporary upheavals in terms of history, context and human cost. With full faith in the human ability to identify with people who directly experienced the violent and painful horrors of war, he worked with a vision and a sensibility to present not only the human cost of war but also compelled us to rethink our attitude to conflict without prejudice. He resisted political, military and institutional demands and interference. This prevented him from accepting the official narrative as factual without first questioning it or finding an alternative. He combined emotion and intellect to sustain his journalism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-98
24-12-2020||Opinion||A bit too much||Family spats that spill over into politics and statecraft have been a feature of Indian existence since antiquity. India’s two most celebrated epics, the Ramayana and the Mahabharata, can be read and appreciated at different levels — from captivating stories (including the gripping sub-plots) to the more challenging ethical issues that confront individuals and peoples. However, it is also possible to read the two timeless works as tales of family spats that spill over into the public arena. Going beyond the intrigues and wars of kings and their courts, the tradition of family disputes spilling over into electoral politics has been a recurring theme of Indian democracy. At the very top of the pile, there was the case of Feroze Gandhi — the husband of Indira Gandhi — becoming a dissident in the Congress led by Jawaharlal Nehru and subsequently training his guns at members of the government. Whether this contributed to the marriage going sour is a matter of conjecture. However, the reality of Indira becoming the official hostess of her father and subsequently becoming a politician in her own right while Feroze did his own thing on the fringes of the power structure was there for everyone to see. Then there was the mother-son spat in the erstwhile royal family of Gwalior that became a permanent backdrop of politics in the Madhya Bharat region of Madhya Pradesh. Depending on who you speak to, there are divergent perceptions of whether Rajmata Vijaya Raje Scindia was the wronged person — after all, she was viciously persecuted for her association with the Jana Sangh during the Emergency while her son, Madhavrao Scindia, took refuge in Nepal and subsequently entered into an understanding with Indira Gandhi — or was craftily manipulated by the redoubtable Sardar Angre. All over India, there are similar stories of feuding families attempting to gain an advantage by taking their battles into the political arena. In recent times, it used to be said that there were two distinct political worlds in Odisha. The first was the familiar political war involving the Congress, the Biju Janata Dal and the Bharatiya Janata Party. At the same time, there was a parallel universe centred on the family feud involving the erstwhile royal family of Bolangir. One wing had become leaders of the BJD while the other wing had hitched its stars to the BJP. The whole situation became awkward and, occasionally, quite hilarious when the BJD and the BJP were in alliance between 1998 and 2004. On the face of it, there is nothing so glamorous or high profile in the breakdown in the marriage of the BJP’s member of parliament from Bishnupur, Saumitra Khan, and his wife, Sujata Mondal. Saumitra, now the president of the West Bengal unit of the BJP’s Yuva Morcha, has been a flamboyant political activist with a penchant for getting into controversies that have a brief life span. His now-estranged wife, Sujata, on the other hand, also developed political ambitions after she conducted the successful election campaign for her husband in 2019 after he was externed from the district by an administrative order. Predictably, she found that her political career invariably hit a roadblock because she was perceived to be an extension of her husband and not as a person in her right. There may have been other, more personal, issues that strained the marriage but those don’t belong in the public arena. If Sujata felt that her political ambitions could not be accommodated within the BJP and needed an alternative outlet, she was fully entitled to re-explore the prospects of life in the Trinamul Congress. Apart from a minority of cases where political beliefs and ideological conviction have determined behaviour, political activism — and not merely in West Bengal — has been dictated by prospects of personal advancement. To that extent, Sujata was fully entitled to chalk out her own political path, even if it was at variance with that of her husband. That, unfortunately, is not the issue. What I find strikingly odd is that Sujata leaving the BJP and re-joining the TMC was turned into a political event for the media to devour and gloat over. Undeniably, it was the TMC that fired the first shot by wilfully seeking to convert an innocuous defection from the BJP — Sujata’s only status was that of the wife of a sitting MP of the BJP — into a political event. Her move to the TMC was not presented as a political conversion but highlighted as an instance where the attraction of the chief minister was strong enough to break up a marriage and, possibly, a family. Maybe the TMC aimed to counter the BJP’s suggestion that the ruling party in the state was being crippled by desertions. That was a legitimate political objective. But what was instead conveyed was that the TMC is powerful enough to break up a BJP leader’s marriage in retaliation. In short, the advice to the BJP was couched in dadagiri: don’t mess with us. The veteran parliamentarian, Saugata Roy, may have been disturbed by this unfortunate lowering of the political discourse, but he was a helpless spectator to a cynical ploy that had been choreographed elsewhere. The issue involved is much more than a public airing of a family disagreement and the possible breakdown of a marriage in real time. What was witnessed on countless Bengali TV channels last Monday afternoon was indicative of the over-politicization of a state and the visceral nature of political competition. The reality of Bengalis taking their politics a bit too seriously has always been a troubling feature of West Bengal. When politics was insulated to ideas, a safe zone could be maintained between an intellectual or ideological pursuit and electoral politics. Over the years, and more so since the collapse of the socialist edifice in 1990, the pretence of the political world being cerebral has been difficult to maintain. At the same time, political partisanship has permeated every level of society and contaminated every institution. Bengal has internalized the very Marxist dictum that all institutions serve a political end in some way or another. It has even re-packaged the personal-is-political principle in social relations. However, the outward veneer of politics barely conceals its ugly essence. The over-politicization of institutions began under the Left Front rule when the Communist Party of India (Marxist) began its extension of total control. The worst affected were the centres of intellectual capital such as universities. In these institutions of learning, the CPI(M) felt the need to control everyone, from the humble peon to the vice-chancellor. This overreach triggered a reaction but the TMC attempted to replicate the Left sans the finesse and with the addition of corruption. The overall effect of three decades of Left rule and a decade of Mamata Banerjee’s whimsy has led to a vulgar over-politicization that manifests itself in everything, ranging from the organization of neighbourhood pujas to stand-offs after traffic accidents. Predictably, the Left has been driven to the margins and the TMC’s visibility extends well beyond the scale of its electoral support. As the slow breeze of change begins to be felt in West Bengal, it is quite apparent that any revival of the state must necessarily involve confrontation with the prevailing culture of politicization. The political class is unwilling to forego this privilege because the process incorporates patronage and favouritism. This drift to a mindless regime of political control has to stop at some point. What is needed is a process of reversal that involves a conscious political retreat. It is time that depoliticization as a conscious objective finds favour in the electorate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-98
