25-12-2020||Opinion||Party pooper: Oli and Nepal's many challenges||Is the person bigger than the party? That seems to be the case in Nepal where the prime minister, K.P. Sharma Oli, has dissolved the House of Representatives and called for fresh elections in a few months’ time. Mr Oli’s principal rival, Pushpa Kamal Dahal, has responded predictably: Mr Oli has been removed by the central committee of the ruling Nepal Communist Party from the post of party chairman. The feud is expected to get uglier, and Mr Oli can claim credit for this marked deterioration. The genesis of this crisis can be traced back to the simmering tensions between the comrades. The Nepal Communist Party was born when Mr Oli’s Communist Party of Nepal (Unified Marxist-Leninist) decided to bury the hatchet with the Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist-Centre) led by Mr Dahal.  But this unity was far from robust. Mr Oli had been a staunch critic of Mr Dahal’s role in the civil war. He also reneged on the pledge to share power with his rival after a stipulated period of time. The prime minister’s critics allege that he has used the time in office to consolidate his hold on the levers of power, hoping that his anti-India rhetoric would help him retain his grip both on the people and institutions. But Mr Oli’s confidence — an acquiescent president notwithstanding — may be misplaced. The public mood in Nepal is grim. With the pandemic accentuating an economic crisis, political instability is hardly what Kathmandu needs at this hour. The prime minister’s dissolution of the House of Representatives has also been challenged in court. It remains to be seen whether it passes judicial scrutiny. With his ‘constitutional coup’ Mr Oli has also cornered himself within the ranks of the party. New Delhi would be following the developments in its Himalayan neighbour quite closely. An unstable Nepal is not in either country’s interests. Whatever the outcome of this fracas in Nepal, the coldness that has crept into Kathmandu’s ties with New Delhi needs to be addressed urgently. The bitterness may have something to do with China’s growing imprint in Nepal. New Delhi must rely on its long and special relationship — the fruits of which are open borders and unhindered movement for people — to smoothen the emerging creases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-97
25-12-2020||Opinion||Spot the winner: in J&K, the alliance has spoken||The Union minister of law and justice has described the results of the District Development Council elections in the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir as a ‘historic’ triumph for the Bharatiya Janata Party. The BJP, at first glance, seems to have performed well. It has emerged as the single largest party winning over 70 seats, sweeping southern Jammu and even pocketing three seats in the Valley. But the minister, as is the wont of this dispensation, has spotted the wrong winner. For it is the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration — its constituents include the National Conference, the Peoples Democratic Party, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and others — that has emerged as the real winner. The PAGD, which is seeking to restore Jammu and Kashmir’s statehood that the BJP took away, is in a position to dominate not only the district boards in Kashmir but — this is significant —  quite a few in Jammu if the Congress decides to lend a helping hand. The alliance has made a mark in north Jammu, and a closer look would reveal that some of its smaller members — the CPI(M) and the Jammu and Kashmir People’s Conference are examples — have had the best strike rates among the contestants. Contrastingly, the BJP, which has ceded some strongholds in Jammu and polled a little over three per cent of votes in Kashmir, clocked a strike rate of 32.6 per cent although it fought the highest number of seats. The election results have not been disputed, but this should not deflect attention from the formidable hurdles that the PAGD had to confront. There was the all-too-familiar vilification: the Union home minister described the alliance as a ‘gang’, insinuating its sympathy for separatists; PAGD candidates were also prevented from campaigning freely on specious grounds. The people have now replied unambiguously against this orchestrated intimidation. Local elections are usually benign affairs. But what made the DDC elections singular was that this was the first election that took place since the controversial abrogation of Article 370. There is thus reason to view the outcome as an expression of the people’s opinions on the Centre’s interventions. The message should be chastening for the BJP. However, another concern seems to have escaped public scrutiny. With the creation of an additional layer of governance — the DDCs are not statutory bodies since their genesis lies in an executive fiat — what would be the prospect of the state assembly, if there is one, in the future? Parallel institutions need not be a sign of the triumph of democracy in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-97
25-12-2020||Opinion||Similar flaws: democracy's response in Bihar and the US||The Covid-19 pandemic could be seen as an experiment to test democracy’s responsiveness towards, and its ability to overcome, widespread sufferings through reasoned public opinion and elections. Elections have taken place amidst the pandemic, be it in the United States of America or in Bihar. Do these elections in the midst of the pandemic sufficiently reflect people’s anger, political discontent and, therefore, the sensitivity of democracy? Comparisons of electoral outcomes between the US and Bihar might appear to be disproportionate in terms of State capacity to address the crisis. Nonetheless, the results, be they in the US or those in Bihar, raise more questions than answers about democracy’s sensibility in the hour of crisis. Institutions devoted to the safeguarding of democracy by upholding the rights of the people and fostering the scientific temperament lie weakened, their autonomy diluted. Partisan divisions in the federal structure are now explicit. An independent and progressive judiciary is allegedly not the norm today but an exception. Institutional integrity and a responsible media are rare. The results — the dissemination of conspiracy theories and unscientific claims and the glorification of hatred — have been along expected lines. Electoral issues in the US vary from those in Bihar. The debate on healthcare dominated the US polls, while caste and communal politics determined the Bihar elections. Nonetheless, the pandemic led to some shared experiences. The US recorded massive infections and job losses and thousands of deaths. Bihar, one of India’s poorest states that sends 7.5 million migrant workers to other states, was witness to unprecedented sufferings of migrants who were forced to undertake perilous journeys on highways and along railway tracks without any aid in terms of food, transportation or medicine. Therefore, many of the experiences of voters in Bihar and in the US — deaths, job losses — were common. The turnout in the US rose to 66.8 per cent from 60.1 per cent in 2016. Bihar’s turnout increased to 57.1 per cent from 56.7 per cent in 2015. Can it be argued that the figures suggest the robust health of democracy in the two nations? If this were the case, the turnouts would have been far higher since electoral participation is easier than what it was earlier. Strikingly, the results did not indicate that the voters had overwhelmingly rejected the incumbent governments in spite of their mismanagement of the pandemic. About 37.1 per cent of the 42 million popular voters in Bihar trusted the Narendra Modi-led National Democratic Alliance. In the US, the Democrats won the presidency with 51.1 per cent of the popular vote but the outgoing Republican president also received 47.2 per cent of the vote. If only two per cent of the popular vote had swung in favour of Republicans, Donald Trump would have been re-elected even though his governance in the time of a pandemic was a spectacular failure. It is evident that both in the US and Bihar, democracy has not responded in the manner one would expect it to. The electoral verdict went in favour of the incumbent government in Bihar, while in the US, the serving president lost narrowly despite the fact that both administrations have grossly mismanaged the Covid-19 pandemic. This goes to show that the problem does not lie with the form of democracy; it lies in the content with which democracies are functioning today.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-98
25-12-2020||Opinion||Arts of giving||They came bearing gifts. Christmas: time for the Magi, wise men from the East, to come with gifts of gold, frankincense and myrrh. Or just one magus, coming to the east from elsewhere. Gold is for earthly kingship, an aspiration embodied in the promise of a Golden Bengal; frankincense evokes deity, pertinently; myrrh is used for embalming, thus representing death — all around us, from infectious sickness, or unscrupulous violence. Violence was one of the themes of the Union home minister’s perorations on his pre-Christmas visit to West Bengal. The state is ill-famed for its poll-related violence and the home minister said that 300 Bharatiya Janata Party workers had been killed here. Even the national president of the BJP was attacked on his Bengal tour, which the home minister condemned, since “[the] BJP believes that in a democracy everyone should have the right to voice their views”. He was serious. So was the prime minister when he beautifully described Aligarh Muslim University on its centenary as a “mini India” and declared that its diversity was the country’s strength. That diversity, however, is more a pretty show than a characteristic of national life. All must sink religious and ideological differences for the single aim of achieving national goals. It is the prime minister and his party who define these goals for Atmanirbhar Bharat, or Naya Bharat, not the diversity of people. But the prime minister reassured his listeners that there was no discrimination in the march to progress; no one would be left behind because of religious or other differences. It was almost as if police attacks on student protesters within the AMU campus did not happen. These students, and numerous others elsewhere, were protesting against the citizenship laws that many believe to be targeted against the minority community, part of the “diversity” the prime minister celebrated. Jails are quite crowded with such protesters as with other activists, teachers and writers known to champion the rights of the underprivileged, accused of being associated with the 2018 Bhima-Koregaon violence between Dalits and right-wing upper-caste groups. If Dalits are beaten up — Una is just one example — or members of the minority community killed in the name of cow protection or punished for love jihad, it is all for the sake of the national march to progress. The BJP’s idea of democracy is special. The prime minister must be seen washing a manual scavenger’s feet while the Union home minister eats in the homes of Dalits and marginalized people — no less than a Baul in Birbhum would do — on election campaigns. Pageantry is an excellent screen for disrespect. And voicing views is fine as long as they fit. Otherwise you can be ‘detained’ — and there if you lose your glasses you must await the State’s pleasure for another pair, if you are over 80 with Parkinson’s, you may or may not get a sipper to drink water, or if you are acutely sick you might, after many efforts by your family, be at best incarcerated in a hospital room. The Union home minister seemed to be bringing the gift of that special democracy to West Bengal, a state — he was sure — which wished to be free of the Trinamul Congress’s corruption. The BJP is munificent enough to help its Opposition here, because the Union home minister welcomed into his party a number of TMC leaders, one of whom, together with two others who had joined the BJP earlier, figured in a video clip of a sting operation that showed them accepting money before the 2016 assembly elections. The BJP’s site had uploaded this as proof of the West Bengal government’s corruption. This being the season of peace and goodwill, that clip has been taken down. The BJP must be a purifying agent, and the clip — no doubt like other items in other situations — was simply an invitation to be cleansed. The carrot-and-stick combine hides a message of welcome: post-election triumphs in state after state are testimony to that. Carrots are good for health. Fittingly, the Christmas pageant — a form of masked theatre in many cultures — was a pageant of love for Bengal. The Union home minister plunged into visits and eulogies to Bengal greats as though Vidyasagar’s statue had not been decapitated at an earlier roadshow he led, or the BJP’s casualness towards Birsa Munda had not been exposed. Bent on being an ‘insider’, the home minister held forth on personalities that Bengal treasures, dropping names from Vidyasagar and Netaji to, of course, Shyama Prasad Mookerjee, for unless the residents of the state knew he was the boy next door, his meticulously done homework would go to waste. Such ardent love can seem weird to cynics; great-man pilgrimages and election campaigns make a distinctly odd couple. But the residents of Bengal were obviously waiting to learn from a Union minister that Swami Vivekananda was one of the most dynamic spiritual leaders of the country who familiarized the world with the philosophy of India. And that — the point of the homework — Vivekananda gave the call to worship the nation as ‘Bharatmata’ in his Chicago address. Like the roadshow in Bolpur that dazzled the home minister with his own popularity, the visit to Santiniketan was the crowning glory of the pageant. Earlier the BJP had a happy notion that Rabindranath Tagore was born there. The party’s relationship with the man has been difficult. Acquiring him for Hindutva by pulling bits and pieces of his remarks out of context has not borne fruit yet, neither have proposals to excise his writings on nationalism from text-books or drop his national anthem. Yet, the state BJP president, who believes that cow’s milk carries gold — another promise of Golden Bengal — thought that Sahaj Path was Vidyasagar’s work. But the idea of Tagore must be mastered — and edited — if Bengal is to be won. The Union home minister’s certificates to “Gurudev” were overwhelming. He imagined the honour the Nobel committee must have felt in awarding Tagore the prize, because the poet’s creations were so much greater. Frankly, those who are not won over by this do not deserve the BJP’s gifts. The emphasis, however, seemed to be on nationalism — two national anthems, an inspiration to Indian nationalism, to Mahatma Gandhi and Subhas Chandra Bose — thin ice here, but Amit Shah said it. Tagore is supposed to have remained the “embodiment of Indian-ness” in spite of opening the doors to various cultures and languages. Gurudev’s contribution to the freedom movement will be forever remembered — did a star just fall, agonized? — and the BJP is “committed to fulfill [sic] Gurudev Tagore’s dream and restore the lost glory of Bengal”. No doubt we relish the idea of lost glory. It does not matter that the prime minister’s ideal of wiping out differences would have sent Tagore out of the room. Quoting from him in a newfound love for Bengal, the prime minister claimed at the Visva-Bharati centenary celebrations that the idea of Atmanirbar Bharat is also a derivative of Gurudev’s sentiment behind his attempt to benefit “entire humanity” through India’s spiritual awakening. Although Tagore’s stay in Gujarat was mentioned, his work for farmers was somehow left out. But Visva-Bharati, the embodiment of his vision and work for “Mother Bharati”, presented a strong image of nationalist sentiment during Independence. The bell tolls. Even if we overlook the implications of this projection of Tagore, it has to be asked: how eager is Bengal for the gift of myrrh? It is time to recall that Vidyasagar, Vivekananda, Tagore, and numerous others fought ceaselessly against bigotry in their many ways. They were champions of humanity, of all human beings without exception — a fact that remains unmentioned in the BJP’s proliferating eulogies. They came bearing immortal gifts. Is it the history they tried to make that West Bengal wants, or the one the BJP is trying to remake in its own image?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-98
