26-12-2020||Opinion||Many-splendoured thing: saffron terror||What are the colours of Christmas? Perhaps the colours of joy and sharing, goodwill and peace — imagined hues. There are visible ones, too. White for snow, real or imaged, in the North and brilliant colours under the sun in the South, green for the Christmas tree, red for Santa Claus and Rudolf the Reindeer’s nose, with everything touched by the brightness of twinkling lights — silver, orange, blue, pink or anything pulled out of the rainbow. When a child learns the difference between red and blue, he or she is still innocent of the power of colour. The colour of skin will matter, as will the colours of the flag they are born under. These associations suggest a certain crudeness that centuries of civilization have been unable to remove. Freedom from such shackles lies instead in going back to a pure sense of colour that can be glimpsed in the artist’s absorption in his own palette, the dyer’s excitement in the hues of plants and flowers with which he douses threads and fabrics, or the bird or butterfly lover chasing the flash and swirl of many-shaded life. But colour seeps quietly into perceptions and hardens into symbols and metaphors that may vary from culture to culture. Jealousy is a green-eyed monster in the West, but the green on the Indian flag stands for prosperity, faith, hope and similar ideals, just as saffron symbolizes courage and sacrifice. At the Christmas Eve celebrations of the Ramakrishna Mission Ashrama, Narendrapur, Father Rodney Borneo from the archdiocese of Calcutta referred to the colours of the Indian flag in which lay India’s love. He was objecting to the use of the phrase, “saffron terror”, emphasizing that terror has no colour: it resides in the person. The monks hosting the event wore saffron robes that Indians equate with holiness and peace, not aggression and violence. In Hindu culture, saffron is for those who forego earthly rewards to serve god and human beings. The most important point the priest made was that violence has no colour — violence is in the heart. The moral force of this remark must be acknowledged — given its unspoken context. It is undeniable that Hindutva is nowadays often imagined as saffron — it relies on the visible support of sadhus to increase its appeal — while the aggressive use of religion in politics has shorn saffron of its sacrificing shades. This is the politics of exclusion, in which religious discrimination as political strategy emanates, thinly disguised, from the Centre or is frankly flaunted by chief ministers in the states, one of them in saffron. The colour thus becomes frightening to many. The priest is right: it is the heart full of violence that must be confronted, not the colour used to conceal it. Just like violence, goodwill and peace are in the heart too, and wearing saffron should not take that away.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-97
26-12-2020||Opinion||Changed life: Marina Wheeler’s book||The year, 2020, has actually been a vintage year for books, among them is Marina Wheeler’s The Lost Homestead: My Mother, Partition and the Punjab. She has nothing to say about her former husband, Boris Johnson, other than that “six months into all this, after three trips to India and the first to Pakistan, my life hit turbulence, ending my marriage of twenty-five years”. The book focuses on her Sikh mother, (Kul)dip (pronounced Deep), who grew up in Sargodha in west Punjab, but when that was allocated to Pakistan, the 14-year-old fled with her family to India. Dip was disastrously married off at 17 to Khushwant Singh’s younger brother, Daljit, 10 years her senior. Her second marriage, in 1961, to Charles Wheeler, the BBC’s star correspondent in Delhi, proved a happy one and produced two daughters — Marina and her elder sister, Shirin. Charles died in 2008, Dip in February this year, aged 88, at her home in Sussex. Marina, a barrister and Queen’s Counsel, journeyed to Sargodha in search of “the lost homestead”, which had long vanished. But through the people that she meets, including her numerous relatives, she tells the story of her mother and the larger one of Partition and the evolution of modern India. British colonial history is currently in a furious churn, with opposing views on whether it should be taught in schools. Marina, who says Britain and India have a “shared history”, tells me it should: “I don’t think it’s right to say this is somehow off limits.” She has been thinking of applying for an Overseas Citizen of India card. “Absolutely I think I am changed — my life is certainly enriched by... the greater understanding of India and Pakistan.” Incidentally, I noticed Marina and Subhas Chandra Bose both went to Fitzwilliam College, Cambridge, though it was called Fitzwilliam Hall in Netaji’s time. Still groovy Harry Rodger Webb was born in Lucknow in 1940, grew up in Howrah and emigrated with his parents and three siblings to Britain in 1948. He is now better known as the pop legend, Cliff Richard, who has sold over 250 million records and had chart toppers in five consecutive decades. Last Sunday Sir Cliff, now 80, chose eights of his favourite records, including Elvis Presley’s “Heartbreak Hotel”, when he was a guest on BBC Radio 4’s Desert Island Discs. He first appeared on the programme 60 years ago in October 1960 when he had just turned 20. In the past six decades, Britain has changed beyond recognition from a white country to a multicultural society with 2.5 million Indians. Cliff’s biographer, Steve Turner, believes the singer is Anglo-Indian. But when he was starting out, Britain was a much less tolerant place and admitting he was Anglo-Indian might have ruined his career. Today, it would be lit up in neon. Quite a curry Indian cuisine is commonplace now, but I was surprised when Bertie Wooster mentioned curry in Jeeves and the Leap of Faith by Ben Schott — a “homage to PG Wodehouse [Plum]”. At one point, Bertie observes the following at his club: “I parted the velvet curtains at a quarter to ten to find the joint jammed to the rafters and louder even than curry night at the Drones.” Ben assures me: “Many London clubs did — and some still do — offer curry days or nights where the usual club nursery fare would be spiced up... with Anglo-Indian food. The Garrick — Plum’s former club — has curry lunches now and then. Moreover, the classic dish of mulligatawny soup and kedgeree were and are staples of this kind of cuisine.” He adds: “I included the curry night reference in Leap of Faith as a deliberate nod to Gussie’s love of steak and kidney pudding, mentioned in Stiff Upper Lip, Jeeves”. In that tale, Bertie tells Jeeves that “cold steak and kidney pie” is Gussie Fink-Nottle’s favourite dish: “I’ve known him to order it even on curry day at the Drones. He loves the stuff.” Ben gives me other curry references in Wodehouse. There is clearly enough for a monograph on Plum and the curry connection. In “Bingo and the Little Woman”, for example, Bertie suggests the following luncheon menu to Bingo — “‘How would this do you, Bingo?’ I said at length. ‘A few plovers’ eggs to weigh in with, a cup of soup, a touch of cold salmon, some cold curry, and a splash of gooseberry tart and cream with a bite of cheese to finish?’” In Something New, a recipe for “Curried Lobster” involves using “half a spoonful curry powder”. Upcoming drama One novel we will be reading soon is Rumer Godden’s Black Narcissus, which was published in 1939 and turned into an Oscar-winning movie, starring Deborah Kerr, in 1947. The tale of a group of nuns trying to establish a school in a remote palace in the Himalayas, north of Darjeeling, has been adapted into a three-part BBC drama, which airs on consecutive nights in the UK. Godden spent a big part of her life in Narayanganj in East Bengal, Calcutta and Kashmir. The new version, filmed in India, stars Gemma Arterton in the lead role of Sister Clodagh and the late Diana Rigg as Mother Dorothea, while Dipika Kunwar, a British Nepali actress, makes her debut as Kanchi. A critic once said Black Narcissus “looks at the themes of sexual desire, religion and repression”. Footnote Bengalis and Italians have one thing in common — the love of good food. The Feluda adventures share a feature with the murder mysteries tackled by the Italian commissario, Salvo Montalbano. Feluda, Jatayu and Topshe seem to enjoy Bengali hospitality wherever they go. Montalbano, meanwhile, insists on silence as he relishes his favourite dishes — timballo, caponata, pasta 'ncasciata, fried mullet, arancini, and spaghetti with cuttlefish, always with wine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-97
26-12-2020||Opinion||A political vacuum||In the summer of 1974, amidst a deepening economic downturn, an increasingly authoritarian Central government faced off against striking railway workers. The 20-day railway strike, led by George Fernandes, would help fortify an anti-government sentiment that was already gathering pace with the JP movement, which would eventually lead to the undoing of the powerful Indira Gandhi government. It is tempting to hear the echoes of that turbulent summer in the winter of 2020 when lakhs of farmers have encircled the national capital for over three weeks. This is also perhaps the first time in five years that the government has found itself on the back foot politically, its dazed response veering between conciliation and condemnation. However, unlike the pre-Emergency protests that roiled India, these protests are not potent enough to pose a fundamental threat to the popularity of this government. This is because these protests have neither the leadership nor the vision to challenge the ideological hegemony of the government — the basis of its political dominance. This is a self-contained, civil society-led movement with limited demands. As the recent local body polls in rural Rajasthan indicated, there isn’t any evidence to suggest that these protests have the potential to shake up popular support for the Bharatiya Janata Party. However, much like we saw with the protests against CAA-NRC last winter, such protests can spark a certain romantic imagination of an alternative idea of India bubbling up from below. A giddy expectation that the masses will lead us to the promised land; a distilled political vision emanating from the enchanting confection of songs, slogans and placards. But a political vision only comes from a political leadership. Without leadership, the immense energy generated by civil society-led protests would, sooner or later, dissipate into the footnotes of history. To make history, you need a leadership expounding a vision and an organization to carry it through. In other words, you need a political movement. Both the anti-CAA-NRC and the farmers’ movement have been similar in two respects. One, its guiding impulse has not been politics but an apolitical idealism, consciously eschewing the support of political parties. Two, in place of a clear leadership, both protests have been led by a dizzying array of civil society actors with differing conceptions of the objectives of the movement. The success of the JP movement was premised on exactly the opposite — a political vision (‘Total Revolution’) that brought Opposition political parties together on a common platform, and the towering leadership of Jayaprakash Narayan, which connected disparate student movements in Gujarat and Bihar, melded it with the grievances of farmers and workers, thereby expanding it into a national movement. It must be noted that an uplifting political vision does not mean an exact political programme. JP’s ‘Total Revolution’ — a mix of democratic decentralization and corruption-free governance — was vague enough to attract a broad swathe of the population while being inspiring enough to energize people into anti-government action. Unlike the present farmer leaders, Fernandes, who led the railway strike, was a militantly anti-government political actor who enthusiastically supported the JP movement and unabashedly linked the strike to the destruction of the government. In March 1974, Fernandes had remarked that “railwaymen could unseat the present Central Government through a general strike.” Similarly, whereas the Gujarat student movement was largely apolitical, the Bihar student movement was led by budding political leaders linked to the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad, the Socialist Party and the Lok Dal. This was the reason the Bihar movement became a breeding ground for a generation of politicians who would dominate Bihar in the coming decades. Even though Jayaprakash Narayan did project an ‘above politics’ image, he openly courted the support of the political parties. They included the Jana Sangh, whose annual meeting he addressed, and the RSS, whose cadre formed the organizational core of the JP movement. The limited political horizons of the farmer protest can be gauged from the fact that almost all other protesting farmer unions promptly distanced themselves from the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan), which organized demonstrations for the release of political prisoners. Joginder Ugrahan is perhaps the only major farmer leader with an alternative political vision, who has clearly linked the woes of the farmers to the shrinking space for democratic freedoms. The anti-CAA protests, although they were more forthright in their ideological challenge to the government, were largely unsuccessful in expanding beyond minority-dominated spaces and, hence, at no point did they threaten the political calculations of the government. In both cases, the protests remained confined to their particular constituencies because of an absence of leadership. While the predilection of activists is always to cater to their base, only a political leadership has the will and the capacity to forge coalitions of distinct constituencies on the basis of shared goals. This is why any hope that the challenge to the BJP might come from outside the established political parties needs to be tempered with a heavy dose of reality.  We have seen civil society protests for much of the last few years, but unlike the pre-Emergency protests, these protests have not given birth to any genuine mass leader. Civil society protests have their place, and are no doubt inspiring in many ways, but they can’t take the space of the political Opposition. This brings us to the incompetence of Opposition political parties, which have singularly failed to capitalize on the government’s failures and the resulting undercurrent of resentment, and have ceded this space to civil society organizations. One part of the reason students, minorities and farmers have hit the streets at various times is that they have little faith in the effectiveness of Opposition parties to push through their concerns. Most of the Opposition parties have acquiesced to the larger ideological framework of the BJP, and are too timid to mount a forthright ideological challenge. These recurring protests are an outcome of the contradictions present in the BJP’s system of dominance; yet there is no political leader, like Jayaprakash Narayan, who has the skill, imagination and credibility to convincingly articulate how these contradictions tie into each other, formulate an alternative political vision, and build a sustained political movement based on it. Until we have such a political leadership, the BJP might lose a few battles of public opinion but will keep winning the war. The author is a political columnist and research associate with the Centre for Policy Research, Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-97
