27-12-2020||Opinion||Gentlemans' Game ||In his sharp letter to the Delhi and District Cricket Association (DDCA) last week, veteran cricketer Bishan Singh Bedi said among other things the Feroz Shah Kotla stadium had been “named hurriedly and most undeservingly” after the late finance minister Arun Jaitley. The renaming of the stadium happened in August 2019, days after Jaitley’s death. The then DDCA president Rajat Sharma said, “What can be better to have it named after a man who got it rebuilt under his presidentship?” The sporting answer would have been, “By playing a great game”, but no one obviously hazarded that response. Yes boss Now, this is not the first stadium in India to be named after an administrator — there is Wankhede in Mumbai, Chinnaswamy in Bangalore, Chidambaram in Chennai — and there are still others renamed after politicians — Rajiv Gandhi, Atal Bihari Vajpayee, EMS Namboodiripad. The game behind the name is anything but cricket. Take the case of the Rajiv Gandhi International Cricket Stadium in Hyderabad. It was originally called Visaka International Cricket Stadium --- after its promoters, Visaka Industries. But in 2005, the chief minister of Andhra Pradesh, Congress’s Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy decided to name it after the late party boss, Rajiv Gandhi, even if it meant that the Hyderabad Cricket Association had to pay Visaka a hefty fine running into crores. Likewise, the other renamings might have earned someone somewhere brownie points, but these never paid attention to historicity. Adam and the Ad-man Some of the oldest cricket grounds in the world are Lord’s, Trent Bridge Ground, The Oval, The Sydney Cricket Ground, Eden Gardens, Galle. Of these, only two are named after people. Lord’s is named after Thomas Lord, Englishman and first-class cricketer who owned the present site in St John’s Wood, but would have turned the grounds into a building estate had it not been for a Marylebone Cricket Club member. William Ward bought the place for 5,000 pounds and rescued cricket history. This was in the 1820s. Ward never felt the need to put his name to the grounds. So there is history and hungering sponsors, but there is such a thing as the imagination of the masses. And no matter how earnest or deferential, some names just won’t stick. No one calls The Oval by the official name of Kia Oval, and the Imperial Wanderers Stadium in Johannesburg is mostly referred to as The Bullring. And while one hesitates to draw attention to exceptions within the country, lest it sets loose the Brownie Point Brigade, exceptions exist. One such is Eden Gardens in Calcutta. Yes, it takes its name quite unoriginally from the family name of the Governor General of India and first earl of Auckland, George Eden, who was in possession of the property in the 19th century. But those frothing at the mouth saying “colonial hangover”, do note that someone at some point negotiated the pitfall of an Auckland-something and settled on Eden Gardens instead. A nod, a wink, an implicit pledge to be cricket heaven, and perhaps a covert warning to the greedy Brownie Point Brigade about the consequences of The Fall.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-96
27-12-2020||Opinion||Bad in law||India seems unwilling to exorcise the spectre of the retrospective tax provision that Pranab Mukherjee introduced in the 2012 budget in a pernicious attempt to nullify a Supreme Court verdict that had declared Vodafone PLC was not obliged to pay a $2 billion tax demand linked to its buyout of Hutchison Whampoa’s 67.5 per cent stake in the telecom venture in 2007. Last week, the issue surfaced once again when the Narendra Modi government decided to contest an arbitration award handed down by a Singapore court that had gone in favour of the telecom giant. The move is bound to spook foreign investors who have been sizing up opportunities in India. India has a reputation for being a tough place to do business because the executive’s decision-making can be both capricious and vindictive, undermining the viability of a business operation. The government has doggedly pursued its right to extract a sum of over Rs 221 billion from Vodafone International Holdings of Netherlands for the 2007 deal. The Singapore court had ruled that the tax demand was “in breach of the guarantee of fair and equitable treatment”. The Centre’s argument is that its sovereign right to levy the tax cannot be trammelled by an arbitration award. This contention flies in the face of legal determination by the courts in the country and abroad that the demand is unfair. It also damages India’s dodgy record for contract enforcement. The Centre’s aggressive posturing comes at a time when it is trying to drum up investments as part of the Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative that gives primacy to domestic manufacturing over imports. The government has also faced another rap from an arbitration court in the Netherlands for expropriating the shares of Cairn India to satisfy a Rs 102.47 billion retrospective tax demand arising from capital gains tied to a restructuring exercise carried out in 2006 — a full six years before the dreaded amendment was introduced. The arbitration court in Netherlands has ordered the government to pay Cairn Energy PLC, the erstwhile parent of the oil and gas explorer, $1.2 billion in damages for wilful breach of the fair and equitable treatment clause in the UK-India bilateral investment treaty. The Cairn episode is a lot worse than the Vodafone case since the government confiscated the shares belonging to Cairn Energy and sold them in the market after appropriating unpaid dividends. When Mr Modi’s government came to power, it had promised that it would not use the retrospective tax proviso. The former finance minister, Arun Jaitley, had assured Parliament in his budget speech in 2014 that the government “would not ordinarily bring about any change retrospectively which creates a fresh liability”. The Vodafone case was already in the courts by then and Jaitley had said that the government would abide by judicial pronouncements. The latest moves signal that the Centre is not prepared to relent in the two cases. This raises questions about the wisdom of the ruthless application of a bad legislation since it can scare away investors who look for legal certainty in any tax jurisdiction before committing funds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-97
27-12-2020||Opinion||Why isn't Rajnath at forefront of farmer talks?||The biggest hurdle in the path of breaking the deadlock between the agitating farmers and the government is the lack of a credible leader. The agriculture minister, Narendra Singh Tomar, has been given the lead but he lacks the stature needed to handle a situation like the present one. Leaders from his own party feel that Tomar’s influence, even in his home state, Madhya Pradesh, is limited to the Gwalior-Chambal region. The other minister tasked to talk to leaders from the farmers’ unions is the consumer affairs and food minister, Piyush Goyal. But he hardly has any mass recognition beyond the cities. One leader, who has both stature and a rural background and can genuinely claim to be from a farmer’s family is the defence minister, Rajnath Singh. The government’s top leadership, however, has not involved Singh in direct talks so far to break the deadlock. Insiders, however, claim that Singh has been asked to hold talks through backchannels. It was apparently his efforts that saw many farm unions from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh coming out to back the farm laws. People in the corridors of power, though, are wondering why Singh is not being directly fielded to break the deadlock. Many feel that he can resolve the crisis. The majority view is that Singh is being kept away only owing to the obstinacy of the current regime to not give much importance to the protesters. This approach could cost the regime dearly, many fear. Little did the actor, Kangana Ranaut, know of the trouble she was courting when she recently shared a photograph of the Rashtriya Lok Samta Party leader and former Union minister, Upendra Kushwaha, on a social media platform. The post claimed that he belonged to the ‘tukde-tukde’ gang and captioned an election rally picture of Kushwaha’s as “Azad Kashmir”. She had shared similar photos of other Opposition leaders as well, but had not faced any adverse consequences. Kushwaha’s supporters, though, took her transgression seriously and started filing cases against her in different courts in Bihar. So far, RLSP supporters have filed cases in Patna, Gaya and Biharsharif, alleging that Ranaut has insulted their leader. More complaints and more harassment seem to be in the pipeline for this firebrand actress. “We are going to call the lady to Bihar courts and ask her to become civilized. If she doesn’t mend her ways, she will have to run so much from one court here to another that she will be run out,” an RLSP leader said. Meanwhile, Ranaut has been left worrying why people do not like her. She may not like the answer. Congress is the principal Opposition party in poll-bound Assam but its base is getting eroded at an alarming pace since it lost power to the Bharatiya Janata Party-led alliance in 2016. The state of Congress could be gauged from the reaction of Badruddin Ajmal, the chief of the All India United Democratic Front, during an interview on a popular TV channel. The AIUDF is trying to tie up with the Congress for the 2021 assembly polls. When asked whether the proposed alliance with Congress could pose a serious challenge to the well-oiled BJP poll juggernaut going by the acute factionalism in the national party, Ajmal straightway appealed to the Congress leaders to put their differences aside and join hands to defeat the BJP first and then decide who will be chief minister after the elections. Such a frank assessment on a public platform was hard for the die-hard Congressmen to stomach, more so after back-to-back defeats in two autonomous council polls in December. They are hoping the high command takes note of the issues afflicting the state unit, at least after Ajmal’s sermon. Tej Pratap Yadav, the eldest son of the veteran politician and Rashtriya Janata Dal chief, Lalu Prasad, has taken on a new ‘avatar’. He is now sporting a yellow dhoti, carrying a rosary and chanting the mantras of Lord Krishna. Previously he used to dress as Krishna or Shiva. This time he visited his constituency, Hasanpur, from where he was recently elected to the legislative assembly and started making jalebis at a sweet shop. In no time, hundreds of people assembled to see him. “Our country has become full of bhakts of a particular person, but I am a true bhakt of the lord. Moreover, if a chaiwala can become a PM, I have become a jalebiwala. But we all know the truth [sic],” Tej Pratap said with an impish smile. Smaller parties in alliance with the BJP continue to face the heat, in states or at the Centre. This week, six of the seven Janata Dal (United) MLAs in Arunachal Pradesh joined the BJP and so did the lone People’s Party of Arunachal legislator, shoring up the ranks of the BJP to 48 in the 60-member House. Exodus to the BJP is routine in the frontier state but, ironically, JD(U) is part of the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance. After being reduced to a junior party in Bihar, the fortunes of the Nitish Kumar-led party continues to dip and that of its ally BJP continues to soar. Bihar and Arunachal Pradesh are lessons for smaller parties: tie up with the BJP at your own risk. Politicians in Karnataka seldom hide their superstitions. The former PM, HD Deve Gowda, carries lemons to ward off the evil eye during crucial political moments. The state Congress president, DK Shivakumar, whose religiosity is well known, went the extra mile to offer a small silver helicopter to a temple in Ballari as atonement for flying over the shrine two years ago. He believes that flight started all the tax troubles, landing him in Tihar in 2019; he now expects an uptick in fortunes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-97
27-12-2020||Opinion||Serving bias||Sir — The Bharatiya Janata Party-led South Delhi Municipal Corporation is planning to make it mandatory for restaurants and meat shops in its jurisdiction to prominently display whether the meat they are serving is halal or jhatka. The proposal goes on to state that consuming halal meat is forbidden and against religion in Hinduism and Sikhism. This is ridiculous and a clear effort to push one community further to the margins. Once this comes into effect, fewer restaurants will serve halal meat for fear of violence; meat can mean the difference between life and death in India. The BJP is trying to rid the public sphere of members of the largest minority community. Somnath Das,
Calcutta Sir — On December 9, a young Indian bison wandered into a quiet housing complex in Pune, which is at the foothills of the Western Ghats, a primary inhabitation of the animal also known as the gaur. Some hours later, it was dead. A large crowd, which arrived owing to messages circulated on social media and curiosity, surrounded the rescue teams. This hampered the operation and stressed the gaur, reportedly leading to its death. The RESQ Charitable Trust, which helps in wildlife rescue missions in and around the city, alerted the forest department, and the police, Pune Municipal Corporation staff, and fire department officers also reached the location by 8 am. The plan was to tranquillize the gaur. But one of the area’s tranquillizer guns was in neighbouring Solapur for an operation to capture a man-eating leopard. Why are there inadequate tranquillizer guns? Will a wild animal wait for scant equipment to be transported from one city to another? This highlights that the forest department is not just short of manpower but also has a severe paucity of funds. What is worse, available forest staff and other authorities had no idea how to deal with the situation. First, there was a paucity of personnel — how can a handful of policemen control a crowd of hundreds, all trying to click pictures of the animal or attempting heroic stunts of their own? There was no coordination among them either. At a time when more animals are being driven into human inhabitation because of encroachment on forests and their natural habitats, forest departments and civic authorities must be trained in the drill to manage such situations. This is especially true of places where animal corridors or wildlife ranges exist nearby. The local population in such places must be sensitized as well. The media, instead of shedding light on the situation, made matters worse by sharing live locations of the gaur. While rescue operations are in progress, both the people and the media must be kept back. There are rules regarding this when it comes to rescue operations involving humans; why are laws not framed when it comes to animals? Crowds scare the animals which either attack or suffer and even die from anxiety. It is clear that urban spaces and authorities are not equipped to deal with the wild. Yet, the two are likely to increasingly cross paths. One hopes this unfortunate incident imparts a lesson. A.K. Sen,Calcutta Sir — Hearteningly, this year, lots of people apparently chose to rent a Christmas tree rather than buy real or artificial trees. Trees are rented and taken home in pots and returned to sustainable farms in pots so that they can be replanted the next year. With the advent of social media and the resultant penchant to flaunt how one is celebrating to the world, the Christmas tree market has expanded. Christmas tree farms are taking up more space and encroaching on agricultural land as well as natural ecosystems. Those who buy plastic trees need to use the same tree for at least 10 years to leave a smaller carbon footprint than those cutting down real trees. People once planted the trees they used in their backyards. With space crunch and population explosion, more trees are now headed to the landfill after the festive season. People should also try using edible ornaments and avoiding packing paper. Christmas must be saved from becoming an environmental nightmare. Jharna Roy Chowdhury,
Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-97
27-12-2020||Opinion||Twenty Twenty, Twenty Plenty||We came into it, or some of us did at any rate, with eyes open, not wide, not bright, but okay, blurry and bleary, with booze and winter’s dew, half open, hallucinating that something was gone and needed farewell and something was beginning that needed a welcome and an embrace, but in truth nothing was going and nothing was coming that was new because it is only a continuum, a flip that happens each day on the calendar, or on the clocks or, nowadays, on mobiles, just a flip, as quotidian as quotidian, but you know we make ceremonies of things because we need to kid ourselves, and we need to wipe slates we have dirtied so we can dirty them anew, with, what is that worthless thing called, whatchamacallit, resolutions, yeah right, resolutions about this shall cease to happen and that shall begin, this should be dropped and that should be picked up, that sort of utterly useless and repetitive thing, but that is what we do, don’t we, that is our core expertise, doing things and doing them repetitively, often without putting our minds to what we are putting our other body parts to, that is how we have come here, in such numbers, the most populous mammalian tribe on the planet possessed of a language, or many, we do such things, mindfully or mindlessly, and we are yet to be told whether that is a good thing or a bad thing, you know, this comfort in numbers, or very often, this discomfort in numbers, which is why very often we resolve that these numbers need to be reduced and we resort to HR consultancies or armament firms so we produce the reasons and the instruments to reduce our numbers, you know, pink slips or atom bombs, those sorts of things, we never tire of who we are or what we do, and when we intermittently feel a sense of weariness, we do drastic things, like resizing, or declarations of war, or war without even the need to declare a war — that happens — that may not be legit or allowed but we routinely permit ourselves things that are not legit or what’s not allowed, which is why we found the need for laws and norms, and courts and conventions, so we may be restricted our infringements and be punished for when we care no more and go out and commit them, that sort of thing, you know what I mean, don’t you, I very much hope you do, and are aware that we do things and we then proceed to undo them and then some of what we do and some of what we undo we call progress, like what happened in Hiroshima and Nagasaki we considered the consequence of spectacular human progress, and even though we hold lachrymose memorials and murmur our never agains, there is never enough evidence that we will never again resort to effecting the consequences of our progress on ourselves, I mean look around the planet and count the number of spots where we haven’t participated in the eruption of this sort and where we are not embattled putting down, or trying to, the consequences of what we call progress but experimenting with more progress, such as the the fast-tracking of an antidote to a contagion that came from our abuses and our arrogance and which came to so petrify us that we had to stop being what we were and stop whatever we were doing wherever we were and we had to go scurrying for remedies and repair, also known as R&R, but this one being a different sort of R&R, meaning not rest and recreation but rigour and research, but anyhow, that is what we needed to do and that is what some of us spent time doing in order that many multiple others could overcome, but the truth is the overcoming is still not clearly in sight and we are, towards the end, as blurry and bleary-eyed on what is to come as we were at the calendar beginnings of all of this... ...so we end as we often do
Upon a clumsy rhyme
Could’ve said bye but I say boo
Wasn’t it such a bloomin’ time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-97
27-12-2020||Opinion||Urban renewal||Cities, you may have heard, are toast. The argument is straightforward and seemingly incontestable: the coronavirus thrives among close clusters of human beings, and nowhere are humans clustered closer than in big cities. The virus’s toll seems to make the connection plain. New York City, the most populous and most dense urban area in the United States of America, was also the first to be devastated by the virus. The pandemic will pass, but many fear that our response to Covid-19 may have ravaged urban economies for good. Lockdowns shuttered bars and turned restaurants into ‘ghost kitchens’ whose primary patrons are overworked DoorDashers. The overnight shift to remote work obviated the need for office buildings and the vast economy that supports their workers, from public transit to corner stores. Online commerce, which had been decimating physical retailers for more than a decade, accelerated its crushing inevitability. Even cultural institutions seem at risk: if Hamilton didn’t lose much in the translation from the Richard Rodgers Theatre to Disney+, perhaps the end is nigh for Broadway too. Now that technology can shower us with many of the benefits of urban life while we laze about in giant exurban McMansions, why would we ever return to living and working so close together? Here’s one answer: because neither the US nor the world can do without cities. They are indispensable as engines of economic growth, catalysts of technological and cultural innovation — and they are one of the most environmentally sustainable ways we know of for housing lots of people. Not only are cities worth saving, they are also ripe for rebirth. The virus presents an opportunity to remake urban life for the better, particularly by addressing its inequities. Already, the pandemic has prompted cities around the world to embrace once radical-seeming ideas. In car-free streets and permanent alfresco dining, a picture of a more livable city is emerging. But we can do a lot more than pedestrianize roads. In 2021 and beyond, we should make rebuilding our urban landscape a top priority. Contrary to conventional wisdom, urban population density does not seem to have been the primary factor in the virus’s spread — note how Asian megacities like Hong Kong and Seoul combated the virus successfully, while many American rural areas suffered major outbreaks. But in New York and other American cities, overcrowding within residences, caused by a lack of affordable housing, did exacerbate the contagion. So let’s fix that: in addition to loosening our antiquated zoning rules, perhaps vacant office buildings and retail space can be turned into apartments, lowering the cost of housing. This is also our chance to remake crumbling urban infrastructure — to create more engaging outdoor public spaces and to radically improve public transportation. Then there is climate change. Think of the coronavirus as a trailer for the horror flick of natural disasters to come. We have a chance to fortify urban space against future outbreaks of disease as well as the coming calamities caused by the changing weather — we can even do both at the same time. For instance, reducing automobile traffic in cities will not just cut emissions that warm the climate. It will also clean up the toxic air that hangs over our most populous areas and is thought to increase the risks of respiratory diseases, including susceptibility to Covid-19. More walkable and bikeable urban design is good for the environment and our health; a study of commuters in Britain showed that biking to work was associated with lower risk of cardiovascular disease and cancer. What’s important here aren’t the specific ideas, but the larger push for civic revitalization. The coronavirus does not have to kill cities — just our old idea of what cities were, how they worked, and who they were for. Rethinking urban space in the aftermath of disease is hardly a new idea. If cities were going to be crushed by pestilence, they would have died millenniums ago. Disease has shaped the modern city, and the modern city has shaped disease. The practice of epidemiology was born in the city, when John Snow, a London anesthesiologist, tracked the spread of cholera to a contaminated water pump in 1854. And much of the civic infrastructure we now take for granted — public parks, garbage trucks, sewers — was put in place partly to curb disease. Cities have overcome disease before, and they can do so again. Yet, at the moment, a grand project to rebuild American cities feels terribly elusive. Despite their economic and cultural importance, cities in the US are often marginalized in politics and, more deeply, in our picture of how America should work. About 80 per cent of Americans live in urban areas, but most say they’d rather live somewhere else. Republicans use cities as a cudgel — supposedly crime-ridden ‘Democrat cities’ became a mantra for Donald Trump. Democrats depend on big cities and their surrounding suburbs for the bulk of their voters, but when was the last time you heard a national Democratic politician make a forceful case for the beauty, creativity and importance of cities — for all that we owe to them, and all we may yet gain from them? If we are to rebuild American cities after Covid-19, we must recognize their value and sing their praises. We must learn to love their bigness, their inherent chaos, and admit how bereft we would be without them. “Cities were once the most helpless and devastated victims of disease, but they became great disease conquerors,” wrote Jane Jacobs, the great urbanist, in The Death and Life of Great American Cities. Then she itemized their contributions: “All the apparatus of surgery, hygiene, microbiology, chemistry, telecommunications, public health measures, teaching and research hospitals, ambulances and the like, which people not only in cities but also outside them depend upon for the unending war against premature mortality, are fundamentally products of big cities and would be inconceivable without big cities.” Cities created the future. Now we must secure theirs. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-97
