28-12-2020||Opinion||Rising spots: India's leopard population||Signs of progress warrant celebration as well as reflection. The findings of the government report, Status of Leopard in India 2018, are heartening. India now has an estimated 12,852 leopards, a population increase of more than 60 per cent over the previous recorded estimate in 2014. Credit must be extended to the architects of conservation and — not to forget — its foot soldiers. But there could be other reasons that explain why the leopard is doing better than, say, the tiger. Among the members of the big cat family, the leopard is the most gifted when it comes to adapting to seemingly challenging milieu. At a time when natural habitats are being encroached upon on account of a predatory development model, leopards have been the quickest to learn to survive within semi-urban and urban habitats. Moreover, they have done so without posing a significant threat to human life — for instance, leopards and people have coexisted in and around Mumbai’s Sanjay Gandhi National Park for years without worsening the prospect of man-animal conflict. This, however, does not undermine the importance of such surveys. This is because the tiger and the elephant — the Big Two of Indian conservation — have occupied a disproportionate share of conservation resources as well as of public consciousness. The alarming depletion in their numbers may have something to do with the skewed nature of this collective concern. But this does not mean that other species, including leopards, deserve any less attention because the ecological balance can only be sustained by understanding the interdependence among species and their habitats. The success of conserving animal species is thus premised on addressing a gamut of inter-related challenges: the watering down of protective legislations; governmental apathy — in 2018, the Supreme Court pulled up the Centre for “sitting” on funds worth Rs 77,000 crore meant for environmental protection; a poorly equipped forest protection apparatus; thinning forests — India’s ‘very dense forest’ cover is now down to 3 per cent — that are no longer capable of supporting a healthy population of wildlife; the resultant displacement of animals which, in turn, is intensifying the man-animal conflict and, as always, poaching. Last year, the Union environment ministry informed Parliament that at least 260 leopards had been poached in India between 2015 and 2018. Wildlife organizations believe that the numbers are far higher. There is no reason for progress, as is evident from the leopard survey, to give way to complacency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-96
28-12-2020||Opinion||Famous five: DU's new Covid quota||The Covid-19 virus has had unexpected effects. In the sphere of education, there was much agony about online lessons, newly modelled examinations, admission processes and, overall, unfamiliar futures. But none of this could be considered unexpected during the spread of the virus. What has come as a surprise is the decision of Delhi University to introduce five reserved seats for each college affiliated to it independent of the accepted quota laws. Candidates who are five per cent or at most 10 per cent short of the cutoff mark of the college for that particular subject would be chosen for these ‘discretionary’ seats. Three names from the college and two from the university — that is, from the college principals and the vice-chancellor respectively — would go to a committee of Delhi University in what is expected to stand in for a show of transparency. The rationale is that the pandemic may have caused undeserved slips from the required standard, and a few seats should be reserved for such candidates. There has been an outburst of objections from teachers and principals as well as from Right and Left students associations. The decision is being seen not only as arbitrary but also illogical: there is no defined procedure by which to select just those candidates affected negatively by the pandemic. How can an incontrovertible connection be established? ‘Discretion’ is subjective and opaque. There appears to be no educationally attuned reasoning behind the university’s decision, which has led many to suspect that a ‘management quota’ is being created. The university has denied this but the grounds for objection in principle are plentiful, and these are being voiced by different segments invested in fair selection and high standards. The choice of five would be dependent on personal decisions of people powerful in the administration, thus undermining the system of lawful reservations. Such arbitrariness threatens excellence. More, this is a route to corruption — sweeteners or nepotism or promises of quid pro quo could determine who gets in. This is apart from the fact that DU colleges have made 25 per cent expansions for economically weaker section reservations with no increase in infrastructure. But in this case, practical problems are secondary to the ones in principle. The university has not addressed those questions yet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-96
28-12-2020||Opinion|| Unique problem with Arab World||Ten years ago this month, Mohamed Bouazizi, a street vendor in Tunisia, set himself alight in front of a government building in rage at the corrupt dictatorship that had ruined his young life. His sacrifice wakened hope in millions of others — but then half a million of them also died, although not at their own hands, and the rest went quiet. It was called the Arab Spring. It should have worked. Non-violent democratic revolutions had overthrown around two dozen other tyrannies in the previous 20 years. So when people in half a dozen Arab dictatorships, galvanized by Bouazizi’s action, went out in the streets to demand democracy in late 2010 and 2011, most onlookers expected them to win. In reality, they all lost, except in Tunisia. In Egypt the protesters forced the old dictator to quit, but the army was back in power in less than two years. In Syria, Yemen and Libya, the protests morphed into savage civil wars that continue even today. Smaller protests in Lebanon and Bahrain were shut down by force. This is not because the whole non-violent technique is falling out of favour. There are non-violent attempts to remove dictators underway right now in Thailand and Belarus, both with a reasonable chance of success. So what’s wrong with the Arab world, where only four out of 22 countries are classed as ‘free’ or ‘partly free’ by Freedom House? Here’s one possible answer. Everywhere else, the political choice is binary: tyranny or democracy. In most of the Arab countries there are three choices: the dreadful status quo or democracy — or Islam. In every Arab country there is an Islamist opposition promising that ‘Islam is the answer’. The right answer depends on what the question is. As a non-Arab and non-Muslim I am not setting the questions, just observing that in the Arab world, unlike elsewhere, two alternative escape routes are on offer to the public. Both have considerable popular appeal, but they are mutually exclusive. Equality and its political expression, democracy, are human values, but for historical reasons it is easy for Islamists to portray political democracy as an alien, ‘Western’ value. This is the fault line that the dictators exploit. That’s why the first thing the Syrian dictator, Bashar al-Assad, did when the pro-democracy protests began was to free several thousand Islamist activists from his prisons. Rival sets of enemies out in the streets are far better than a united opposition. It led to a 10-year civil war that has driven half the population into exile, but Assad is still in power today. The Egyptian army was subtler. It let its old, discredited leader go under, knowing that a free election would bring the Islamists to power because most voters were rural and socially conservative. The military calculated that the urban young who made the revolution would be dismayed and seek the army’s help when the Islamists began forcing their values on the country. That’s exactly what happened, and the new dictator, General Abdel Fattah el-Sisi, then massacred about four thousand Islamists on the streets of Cairo. Variants of this scenario played out in other Arab countries with more or less violence, and only Tunisia managed to create a lasting (so far) democracy. This is not uniquely an Arab problem, of course. Iran has been an Islamist theocracy for 40 years, and Turkey’s once lively democracy has been slowly strangled in Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s 17 years in power. But as the distance from the Arab heartland grows, so do the prospects for democracy. Pakistan manages to be a (quite corrupt) democracy about half the time, Bangladesh and Malaysia are quasi-democratic all the time, and Indonesia is a full-fledged, full-service democracy. These four countries account for almost half the world’s Muslims; African Muslims don’t seem to have particular problems with democracy either. The problem resides in the Arab world, where the political climate has only two seasons: brief springs and very long winters. It may not be an insoluble problem, but there’s certainly no solution in sight.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-96
28-12-2020||Opinion||New divisions||The definitive conditions of privacy are available only to the privileged. Ever since the European Enlightenment deepened the importance of the individual and sharpened claims of private property and artistic creativity, crucial forms of privacy have been globalized through the force of colonial ideology. Today, such societies are stratified by the violent luxury of privacy. Affluent households distribute superhero-themed rooms to growing children while families of seven or ten, battling it out in a crammed shanty, learn much more about one another’s bodies, habits, and desires than they should. One of the key determinants of privacy in the 21st-century is access to virtual interiority. It is potent opium for the people. With your ears and eyes plugged into a YouTube video on your phone, you can shut out all worries, sensory and otherwise, of a life that is in every other way nasty, brutish and short. But only as long as you have data. Just the way central heating in cold countries and air-conditioning in hot ones mark the critical divide between the rich and the poor, today it is volume of data that draws a sharp line. It ranges from the just-about-enough-to-make-a-call (WhatsApp on a better day) in the shanty to unlimited data in the Spiderman-themed room for the tween to download the latest versions of Fortnite and Minecraft. Virtual interiority and the subsequent construction of the speculative and the alt-real are now among the starkest markers of privilege among tweens and teens across this stratified nation. Sure, there is always the more demotic appeal of Candy Crush and (the now-banned) PUBG, with heads hunched over tired bodies in crowded buses. But the scale and grandeur of reality-cancelling virtual lives are, in the end, directly proportionate to the power of your bandwidth and the price of your gadget. By hurtling us into a dystopian techno-future, this prolonged pandemic has sharpened the divide in virtual interiority like never before. For the high-data class, this has meant Zoom luncheon parties and binging on Netflix. Phalanxes of laptops, iPads, phones, smart TVs, LED displays and gaming stations have come alive in multiple layers of privacy to create varieties of work, pleasure, and society in the very lap of home. On the other end is the family that has to breathe all the data it can muster into the single device it possesses — usually a phone — all morning so that at least one child can attend classes online. The stories have poured in — stories that are not stories, just sound like them. The boy in Kashmir who walks a mile to get to a place with just about enough connectivity to access his classes on the phone; the girl in rural Tamil Nadu who has to climb on the rooftop of her hut to get enough bandwidth to participate in Zoom lessons; the textile worker in Uttar Pradesh who cannot take any calls in the morning when his son uses his phone for his classes. Modernity has taught us to privilege the mind over the body. The process of disembodiment has been consistently intensified by technology, which has made the direct and the physical less and less important in our lives. Connecting with the world has often meant disconnecting from our neighbours, the family member in the next room, across the bed and, eventually, our very own bodies. This narrative of growing abstraction has been a concern for teachers. In Democracy and Education, John Dewey pointed out that as societies become more complex in structure and resource, the need for formal or intentional teaching and learning increases. But as formal teaching and training expand, there is the danger of creating an undesirable split between direct experience and what is acquired in school. Abstraction is a necessary means to understand larger, more complex, realities — which modern societies have increasingly become — but abstraction as an educational measure also leads to real losses. The educationist, Howard Gardner, is well aware of the process through which education becomes progressively decontextualized and disembodied. As one moves from ‘direct’ forms of knowledge practised in informal schooling to traditional religious schools, and from traditional schools to modern schools, Gardner writes, “there has been a steady minimisation of bodily, spatial, and interpersonal forms of knowledge — first in favour of linguistic forms, and then, increasingly, in favour of logical-mathematical and intrapersonal forms of thinking.” Gardner is vigilant about the celebration of the progressive modernization of schooling. Certainly, from a Western perspective, he says, the transition from the direct to the traditional to the modern school feels like progress, but one can also see this ‘progress’ as the systemic devaluation of certain kinds of intelligences, primarily those that are interpersonal, bodily, and spatial. It also erodes important linguistic capacities such as reciting and committing things to memory. This is a timeless problem for educational ‘progress’. He cites Socrates, who warned that the advent of writing would cause people to neglect their memory. Many of us know this first-hand, having experienced through the course of our own education, a generational shift in attitudes about the importance of handwriting, and then of spellings, the word-processor having threatened the value of both; the calculator, now allowed inside many examination halls, has done the same to basic quantitative skills. Important correctives have sought to restore the physical, the natural, and the experiential in educational methods. Waldorf schools run on the philosophy of Rudolf Steiner is an example. Gardner’s theory of multiple intelligences, countering the abstract nature of IQ, is another. Rabindranath’s vision of Santiniketan and Jiddu Krishnamurti’s philosophy behind the Rishi Valley schools have also sought to make education a full human experience as opposed to the poverty of the merely mental. It would be an old romantic flaw to binarize the abstract and the bodily across class lines. Sure, that is the most obvious difference between white and blue collar labour. But as Gardner would remind us, the surgeon’s work depends on deeply sophisticated bodily intelligence, and the architect’s work is an inevitable blend of spatial and mathematical intelligence. Conversely, the desire to discard the sweat and the crowd of the bus and enter virtual interiority also belongs to the ordinary, phone-struck commuter who is not a regular user of the Apple Pencil. Everybody wants it. But not everybody gets it. Just like modernity and privacy, virtual interiority belongs far more easily to those who can purchase it. Last month, when the lack of this purchasing power led Aishwarya Reddy, a student at Delhi’s Lady Shri Ram College, to commit suicide, the tweet by the poet, Ranjit Hoskote, cut to the bone: “It fills me with rage and grief to think that, in a country where children of privilege cut online classes to catch up on their gaming, a young woman from an economically vulnerable background has killed herself because her family couldn’t afford a laptop.” The pandemic has suddenly accelerated forms of abstraction and interiority. Some of these forms will stay with us even after we get our lives back. That is an irreversible reality. Who is coming along? Who will be left behind? Whether we go or falter, these are always the questions that will haunt this country. The author is professor of English and creative writing at Ashoka University||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-96
