29-12-2020||Opinion||Grey areas: negative GDP growth||The Reserve Bank of India recently revised its projection for the growth rate of the gross domestic product for 2021 to a negative 7.5 per cent from the earlier negative 9.5 per cent. This represents an improvement in the forecast, since the RBI perceives India’s economic recovery to be gathering greater momentum since the festive season. According to the RBI, although consumer and business confidence levels are still very low, expectations about the future are significantly brighter. The bank’s optimism rests on a prediction made from a baseline scenario, which assumes that in the near future there is no uptick in inflation rates and that the pandemic is under control without any deterioration through the advent of a second wave. These assumptions might not turn out to be robust: the current consumer price index inflation has already breached the RBI’s tolerance limit of 4 per cent. Headline inflation is well above 7 per cent, and food and beverages inflation is above 11 per cent as recorded in October 2020. The index of industrial production grew by 0.2 per cent in September this year. This is hardly anything to be pleased about. The economy is far from a stable path to recovery, with supply chains still disrupted and unemployment and disguised unemployment at alarming levels. Education and other major sectors like hospitality and travel remain in the doldrums. On the coronavirus front, there is already a wave of new infections based on a mutant strain that is threatening Europe. There is no reason yet to believe that the nation is immune to this new menace. The availability of the vaccine in India is not quite certain either. To be fair, the RBI has nothing more to do at the moment. It has placed a large menu of enabling credit lines on the table. It is for producers and consumers to feel the urgency to avail of these enablers to boost demand and production. So far, that confidence is just not showing. The commercial banks are wary of opening the credit taps too fast, fearing it will open a floodgate of bad debts. Beyond these enabling facilities, the RBI had to pause in its efforts to make credit cheaper since the rate of inflation moved beyond its stated upper limit of tolerance pegged at 6 per cent. If inflation gets worse, the central bank might even have to raise policy rates. There is still a large zone of uncertainty, and the near future remains unpredictable. Hopefully, the RBI’s latest projections are not too wide off the mark.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-96
29-12-2020||Opinion||Out of breath: air pollution in India||Breathing polluted air is far deadlier than inhaling the coronavirus. A study published in The Lancet Planetary Health showed that foul air caused 1.67 million premature deaths during 2019 in India — this is more than 10 times the country’s coronavirus death toll so far. The figure is also 30 per cent higher than earlier estimates of mortality attributed to foul air. Strikingly, the economic burden of air pollution owing to the lost output from premature deaths and morbidity is considerable: the losses have been pegged at Rs 2,60,000 crore or 1.4 per cent of the nation’s GDP. These data sets indicate that India’s fight against air pollution is failing on a number of fronts. The principal concerns — unchecked industrial emissions, vehicular pollution and construction activity — remain unaddressed. But this is only a part of the problem. Air pollution is a layered phenomenon and its causes reveal regional variations. Consider northern India that registered the highest number of deaths. The air there is seasonally poisoned by stubble burning in spite of an order by the Supreme Court to make seeders available at subsidized prices. The availability of technology is not enough; it must also be made accessible. Debt-ridden farmers — 52.5 per cent of India’s agricultural households are in debt says a study by the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development — cannot afford to either rent or buy seeders. There are other anomalies. There is a disproportionate focus on the National Capital Region as far as the public discourse and policy initiatives are concerned even though there is research — a study conducted by IIT-Delhi and the Central Pollution Control Board is an example — to show that rural areas are witnessing degradation in air quality as well. The need for urgent intervention is brought out by the connection between air pollution and Covid-19 mortality; a Harvard University study showed that an increase of only one microgramme per cubic metre in PM 2.5 is associated with an 8 per cent increase in the Covid-19 death rate. Tackling air pollution in the Indian context is also tied to social justice and poverty alleviation. A significant percentile of mortality has been sourced to household air pollution. This goes to underscore the importance of schemes such as Unnat Chulha Abhiyan, 2014 and the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana, 2016; both have much ground to cover. India’s transportation apparatus needs to be modernized too, with green energy given due priority. Last but not the least is the public inertia concerning pollution. Education and awareness can make a difference but there is a dearth in investment and targeted approach in these areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-96
29-12-2020||Opinion||The boot’s on the secular face||Insightful commentators on our politics have tried to make sense of the unyielding vishwas that people repose in the country’s leadership despite economic devastation, a humiliating military setback, the mauling of the institutions of governance, and policies that have impoverished and diminished us as a nation. The reason ascribed to this devotion is an undiminished belief in a charismatic leader who has sacrificed everything for the nation; who embodies a virile Hindu nationalism and seeks common good; a visionary who stirs the imagination and inspires trust even when the vision is flawed. This undying vishwas is shored up by an unrelenting propaganda helmed by a servile media and is further abetted by fanatical social media admirers. His invincibility has been reinforced by a clueless Opposition and by the dissipation of class, caste and regional affiliations. This melange of explanations for the infinite faith in our supreme leader obfuscates the core determinant of this amaurotic vishwas. The cardinal inspiration for this unswerving devotion to the leadership stems from what George Orwell calls “an admiration for power and successful cruelty” against the perceived enemy. Those occupying the command posts of the institutions of governance have shown that they know how to deal with the ‘Muslim threat’. Devout bhakts cheer them on, in much the same way the Roman mobs in the Colosseum did when people were ripped to shreds by lions. The last few years have seen a sustained, wanton offensive against a community that has been stigmatized like never before. The social terrorism manifested in lynchings, cow vigilantism, ghar wapsi and love jihad campaigns is the new normal and designed to consign Muslims to a ghettoized, pariah status. The abrogation of Article 370 and the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, apart from striking at the heart of our secular Constitution, deliver an unambiguous message that Muslims are second-class citizens who do not ‘belong’ to the idea of India crafted by the ruling dispensation. The anti-CAA protests from December 2019 to February 2020 were a truly democratic upsurge spearheaded by women and students who stepped forward to reclaim the country’s egalitarian essence. The Preamble, the national flag and the national anthem were the overarching symbols of this mass movement. The unexpected solidarity across class and community rattled the government, which attacked anti-CAA protesters as anti-national, tukde tukde gangs fanning anarchy and endangering the rule of law. The anti-CAA protests filled Muslims with fleeting optimism of a more just tomorrow but, tragically, this fight for equal citizenship rights was snuffed out by the communal riots in Northeast Delhi that coincided with the deadly pandemic that ended all protests. The restraints imposed by the pandemic have been used by the government to tiptoe around its constitutional commitment to the democratic values of freedom, equality and justice. Using the pandemic as an excuse, the governing elite has done everything possible to discredit, delegitimize, even silence the voices speaking for the dispossessed. Draconian laws like the NSA and the UAPA have been used with devastating effect to stifle dissent.  The transformation of the peaceful anti-CAA protests into a ‘secessionist’ movement propagating ‘armed rebellion’, as portrayed in the police charge sheets on the Delhi riots, is Kafkaesque in its distortion. The first reports and reactions to a conflagration are often the most telling pointers to what really happened. The graphic videos and reports of those nightmarish days in February clearly suggest that the Muslims suffered far greater losses to life and property than their Hindu neighbours. Three former Supreme Court judges who visited the riot-hit areas for a personal assessment came away with the impression that “Muslims seem to have been targeted in the riots.” Official figures bear this out: around 75 per cent of those killed were Muslim and 85 per cent of properties damaged belonged to Muslims. Fourteen mosques and a dargah were gutted. The home minister’s initial observation noted “that the professional assessment is that the violence in the capital has been spontaneous.” This statement was seen by many as a defensive feint against allegations that the riots were the upshot of an insidious right-wing plot. However, after the spin doctors had conjured up an alternative narrative, the home minister informed Parliament that the riots were “pre-planned”. The bloodletting had by then mutated into an anti-Hindu riot that was the handiwork of an ‘Urban Naxal-jihadi’ network. Muslims are subjected to everyday harassment, denigration and discrimination. They are stigmatized as purveyors of corona jihad; they are stopped from selling their goods in non-Muslim localities; the chief justice of the Telangana High Court asks in exasperation why only Muslims are pulled up for violating lockdown rules — the list of woes is endless. Worryingly, the justice system has often failed to respond to these depredations. In a truly egalitarian society, Muslims would fight for justice. But in the face of institutional bias and a pathological social hostility, this is easier said than done. Some optimists hope for our own ‘George Floyd moment’, but seeing the ground realities today, I keep visualizing Orwell’s grim prognosis: “If you want a picture of the future, imagine a boot stamping on a human face — forever.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-96
29-12-2020||Opinion||For a better future||We have all heard of Russia’s disinformation campaigns in recent years, thanks to the previous election in the United States of America that made Donald Trump the president of the US for one term. The authors of a report produced with support from the State Department’s Global Engagement Center say that disinformation can include authentic material used deliberately in a wrong context to make a false connection, such as an authentic picture displayed with a fake caption. It can take the form of fake news sites or the ones that are intentionally designed to resemble well-known sites. The report concludes that the use of disinformation as a tool for influence and obfuscation will never cease. Similarly, the underlying psychological factors that make humans vulnerable to disinformation are enduring. “What will change, however, are the technologies by which disinformation is created and spread.” Earlier this month, the Brussels-based EU DisinfoLab uncovered an allegedly Indian disinformation network that has been operating since 2005 to discredit Pakistan, in particular, among other countries (like China) that are in conflict with India. The investigative report titled, Indian Chronicles, shows that the disinformation campaign was designed primarily to “discredit Pakistan internationally” and influence decision-making at the European Parliament and the UNHRC. The EU DisinfoLab termed this as the “largest network” of disinformation it has exposed so far. According to the BBC, “[a] dead professor and numerous defunct organisations were resurrected and used alongside at least 750 fake media outlets in a vast 15-year global disinformation campaign to serve Indian interests”. India, obviously, denied this report. The spokesperson of the ministry of external affairs, Anurag Srivastava, said: “As a responsible democracy, India does not practice disinformation campaigns. If you are looking at disinformation, the best example is the country next door which is circulating fictional and fabricated dossiers and purveys a regular stream of fake news.” Pakistan’s foreign office dismissed India’s so-called denial. A foreign office spokesman said: “The MEA’s tall claims have no legs to stand on. The latest developments and international exposés have clearly shown that India is neither ‘responsible’ nor a ‘democracy’.” The foreign minister, Shah Mahmood Qureshi, called on the United Nations “to create processes that ensure that the international system is not manipulated through such influence operations”. There are countries around the world that work in different ways to protect their own interests by targeting their rival countries. Such smooth operations, although uncommon, are not unheard of. The EU DisinfoLab report said that it uncovered an entire network of coordinated UN-accredited NGOs promoting Indian interests and criticizing Pakistan repeatedly. These “UN-accredited NGOs work in coordination with non-accredited think-tanks and minority-rights NGOs in Brussels and Geneva. Several of them... were directly but opaquely created by the Srivastava group. In Geneva, these think-tanks and NGOs are in charge of lobbying, of organising demonstrations, speaking during press conferences and UN side-events, and they were often given the floor at the UN on behalf of the accredited organisations.” The report suggests that the alleged Indian network continued to operate for 15 years. It means that this network began working during the Pervez Musharraf era when there were relatively peaceful relations between the two countries. During the Musharraf era, a four-point formula was also pushed to resolve the Kashmir issue. However, it did not materialize. We know that India and Pakistan have a history of mistrust and have fought traditional wars as well as proxy battles. Both countries have come to the brink of war a few times as well. In recent years, especially under the Narendra Modi regime, the ties between the two neighbours have soured to such an extent that there seems to be no way forward. It is quite unfortunate that we have come to such a pass. We cannot change our geography, neighbours or history but we can at least try and build bridges. In October, Moeed Yusuf, special assistant to Prime Minister Imran Khan, had said that the two countries “need to sit down like adults” and talk about the two fundamental issues affecting their ties — Kashmir and terrorism. “There has to be an enabling environment to talk. Create that and you will find us willing the next day. Take that one step [and] you will see my prime minister take two,” Yusuf told Karan Thapar in an exclusive interview. That is the crux of the matter. Pakistan has been extending an olive branch to the Indian leadership for many years now. In July 2018, right after his party claimed victory in the general elections, Imran Khan said that he believes that trade between India and Pakistan is important to improve economics in the subcontinent. This will be beneficial for both the countries. Even at the height of the post-Pulwama crisis, Khan made several peace overtures to India. However, the Indian side was not willing to listen. And is still not willing to move forward. The year, 2020, is ending. The global coronavirus pandemic is still at large but in the next few months, it will hopefully be under control once the vaccination drive is completed across the world. The year, 2021, will be a new beginning for all of us in many ways as we have just come out of a year that led to chaos around the world. It should be a lesson for all of us not to take anything for granted and also to make changes in our thinking in the larger interest of our communities. It would thus be a good time for India and Pakistan to rethink their relationship. Countries do not prosper easily if there is conflict in the neighbourhood. The bitter past shared by India and Pakistan has led to the failure of Saarc, a regional organization that could have brought prosperity to the South Asian region. The people of the region continue to suffer as a result of this traditional rivalry. If there is one thing that the coronavirus pandemic has taught us, it is that the healthcare sector is ill-equipped to deal with a pandemic, especially in South Asia. Pakistan has done well in combating the virus compared to most countries in the world but the second wave is upon us. Instead of fighting wars that have cost us billions, the two neighbours should be fighting the real war — the war against poverty. We should be investing in our people by improving our health sector, by improving our education system, by improving the living standards of our nations. It is time for new beginnings. India and Pakistan should take a step forward and start talking to each other. The year, 2021, must see some positivity after a year in which the world saw only darkness. We must change our priorities. Here is to peace and prosperity in the new year. The author is a journalist based in Lahore; mehmal.s@gmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-96
