30-12-2020||Opinion||… but I have to return, Benazir said about going back to Pakistan  ||Politicians and journalists don’t always stay good friends and even if they do get close, those ties rarely last. Of course, there are exceptions. The late Kuldip Nayar remained a firm friend of Inder Gujral before, during, and after he became prime minister of India. Deceased British journalist James Cameron was a lifelong pal of British Labour Party leader Michael Foot. My most treasured memories of Benazir Bhutto are from when she flew back to Lahore in 1986 following two years of self-imposed exile. They are a reminder of another friendship between journalist and politician that survived over the years and it had its roots in our student years at university in Oxford. In 1986, reporter’s notebook in hand, I stood next to Benazir in the lead lorry that transported her from Lahore airport to Iqbal Park where she asked a rapturous crowd what they thought of the country’s military dictator General Zia Ul Haq. “Zia avey, avey”, she inquired? “Ya Zia javey, javey ?” Some in the crowd shouted, “Zia kutta hai”, but most responded more politely, “Zia javey, javey.” It was impossible not to be caught up in the excitement, not least because I was an Indian standing only yards away from the soon-to-be prime minister of Pakistan. Close by sat Mazhar Ali Khan, father of famous Pakistani writer Tariq Ali, plus a host of other VIPs and friends. Among them was another Oxford chum who spontaneously yanked me into the lorry soon after her plane landed. Benazir wore a smart, designer jacket, her head was covered in a white dupatta and her adoring, million-strong supporters were a riot of colour. Some waved the green-and-white flag of Pakistan, others held the red, black and green flag of the Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) that she headed. Everyone that day agreed on how she displayed qualities of dignity, grace and courage, ready to defy the military authorities of the time. It was after a similar rally that she would be killed 21 years later on the streets of Rawalpindi when she attempted another comeback to her own country. We first got to know each other in unusual circumstances when she was an undergraduate at Lady Margaret Hall in Oxford, lobbying for her father, Pakistani Prime Minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, to be given an honorary degree. I was a student at Wadham College and participated in a student movement opposed to the idea. We argued that he should not be rewarded with an honorary degree because of his alleged role in the atrocities committed against Bengalis in East Pakistan. One afternoon at Wadham, there was a commotion outside my room as Benazir - "Pinky Bhutto" to her friends - stormed up the stairs to shout at me, “How dare you block my father’s honorary degree.” I told her to mind her manners and slammed the door in her face. Six months passed, we barely spoke, then out of the blue I received an invitation to a party she was co-hosting with Peter Galbraith, later to be the US ambassador to Croatia. “Have you forgiven me?” she asked as soon as I arrived. I mumbled something about how it was impossible not to forgive a Shahzadi and we from then on remained firm friends. We talked about Indian and Pakistani politics during meetings in the company of other mutual friends and on her occasional visits to the Middle Common Room of Wadham. At other times it was an easy walk to seek her out in the gardens of her college. During a brief part time internship with the BBC, I was enlisted to seek her participation in a radio programme about the Bhutto family. Benazir agreed to start with but later pulled out, though not before prolonged discussions about what she believed were the Rajput blue blood origins of her father’s ancestors. Years later, when she was under house arrest in Karachi, and before she went into exile, I happened to be visiting Pakistan and managed to smuggle her a handwritten note of support, telling her how she was missed by her many friends in the UK. The note was conveyed by a mutual friend who played bridge with Benazir’s aunt living in the exclusive Karachi suburb Clifton. Meanwhile, I had some significant interactions with other members of the Bhutto family as well. Benazir's brother Murtaza was also a student at Oxford. We often bumped into each other, if only because we shared the same tutor in the late Sir Michael Howard. Murtaza was researching Pakistan’s nuclear programme, my thesis was about the history of India’s nuclear bomb. Then, when Benazir had been prime minister of Pakistan for barely a year, I ran into Murtaza at Sheraton Hotel bar in Damascus in 1988. Elegantly turned out in black trousers and a red waistcoat, he was living in exile in Syria at the time, a guest of President Hafez al-Assad, and I was visiting Damascus to report on the plight of Western hostages taken prisoner in neighbouring Lebanon. Highly suspicious and easily angered, he whipped out a pistol and pointed it at me when I asked, “Murtaza, is that you?” A few minutes later, he calmed down and later that same evening volunteered an on-the-record interview that lasted most of the night as we drank steadily through a large bottle of Scotch. Throughout the evening, he kept returning to the theme of how his sister, a woman (expletive deleted), had cheated him out of the Prime Minister’s job which was rightfully his as the eldest son and heir of his father. More critical comments followed that were not included in an article published the following weekend. Murtaza’s instant response was to take personal legal action and demand £10 million damages for a story that he claimed was a complete fabrication. Days later the case was withdrawn because I was able to provide witnesses who corroborated the substance of the interview. Some years later, when we met again in London, I asked Murtaza to justify his behaviour, he replied, “Come on Shyam, can’t you take a joke.” Although Murtaza did not stay in touch, Benazir remained in contact. One 1993 afternoon in Jerusalem, where l was based as a Middle East correspondent and Benazir was serving her second term as Prime Minister, the telephone in my office rang with a woman’s voice at the other end. “Shyam, this is Benazir”, the voice said. At first I thought it was a friend playing a joke, but Benazir persisted with a request. “Can you help facilitate a meeting with Yasser Arafat”, she asked? “He lives in Gaza, which is controlled by Israel, and to get to him now, I would first have to travel to Israel. The problem is that Pakistan has no diplomatic ties with Israel. Can you tell Arafat I am ready to travel from Egypt to meet him at the Gaza border?” It was an unusual request, but, sensing a possible story, I duly passed on her message to the Palestinian leader. His response was sharp. “You are a reporter, not a diplomat. Any request she has can be conveyed through the Palestine embassy in Islamabad.” This Palestine initiative of 1993 was one of many diplomatic challenges that year in which Benazir immersed herself. This was the same year in which she also travelled to North Korea, personally handing over key details of uranium enrichment technology to Pyongyang. In exchange, the North Koreans handed over the Nodong missile craved at the time by Pakistan’s generals. Details of that exchange were revealed to me a decade later when a demoralised Benazir was once again in exile, flitting between London and Dubai, remembering her murdered brother Murtaza and desperately trying to get her husband Asif Ali Zardari released from prison. The earlier context was a private dinner in London in 2003 when Benazir asked, “My brother Murtaza said some things about me when he was alive. Can you now tell me what they were?” I hummed and hawed, then agreed, provided she in return granted a no-holds-barred interview about anything I chose to ask. “Come to Dubai”, she told me. “There I’ll tell you everything you want to know.” A few months, later I flew to Dubai, recording a four-hour-long interview, including her off-the-record revelations about how North Korea obtained the secrets of Pakistan’s uranium enrichment. She also talked about other sensitive issues that were likewise recorded and remain confidential to this day. Now, 13 years after her death, some can be disclosed. They include revealing what she said when asked if Pakistan had ever considered a nuclear strike against India. This was her response from 2003. “For God’s sake. Never for a moment have I ever woken up with such a thought. Because I know that even if I was mad enough to think that, I would end up nuking my own people. I don’t understand how this is a deterrent because neither India can use the nuke, nor can Pakistan. Because whichever country is throwing that nuke knows there is not enough time/space and is going to get it back.” We subsequently remained in touch, always meeting in London although she resisted my efforts to talk in more detail about North Korea’s links with Pakistan. One lasting memory is of sharing a meal at her South Kensington flat when she insisted on her three children clearing the plates from the dining table. A day before she left the UK for the last time to return to Pakistan, I received an invitation to a farewell function at a PPP supporter’s flat located close to London's Marble Arch. “Don’t go back”, I pleaded with her. “The army fears your popularity and they’ll be waiting for you.” Ever the optimist and always courageous, she looked me straight in the eyes before replying. “You may not understand, but I have to return”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-95
30-12-2020||Opinion||Deal with it: Brexit trade pact||An amicable separation is always better than one tinged with bitterness. The news that Britain and its largest trading partner, the European Union, have managed to chalk out their terms of separation would come as a relief, especially to the British prime minister, Boris Johnson, who is eager to milk the inking of the deal as a political accomplishment. Indeed, Mr Johnson has reasons to gloat about the achievement. As many as seven Conservative prime ministers, including David Cameron who lifted the lid on Brexit, had tripped on the vexing question of walking out of the EU. Mr Johnson has not only achieved this goal, but has done so without adversely affecting his political fortunes. The Tory triumph in the last elections, Mr Johnson can argue, was an unambiguous mandate for Brexit. But the ‘freedom’ from the EU’s coils — the Brexiteers saw it thus — may come with formidable challenges. Even though Britain’s Parliament is expected to endorse the deal — the Labour Party has already welcomed the agreement and said it is better than a ‘no-deal’ exit — the contours of the pact remain unclear at the moment. The agreement apparently outlines Britain’s engagement with the EU in such critical areas as law enforcement, data and security. But this assurance is being challenged by persistent concerns. There is a distinct possibility of implosions that are likely to take place as Britain uproots itself from the security, ease and efficiency offered by a common market. Consequently, disruptions in supply chains of companies, a discernible dip in trade volume and — most critically — job losses are a foregone conclusion. The economic distress is likely to intensify public disenchantment at a time when Britain, like the rest of the world, has suffered considerably on account of the pandemic. It remains to be seen whether Mr Johnson’s pledge of returning Britain to its — mythical? — sovereignty functions as an effective balm in these trying circumstances. What may bring this cleverly created utopia of British autonomy under a cloud are the prickly points of contention with the EU. Has the possibility of the estranged partners invoking punitive action for anti-competitive measures been eradicated completely? The outcome of Britain’s decision to chart out an independent path will also be determined by matters over which it has little leverage: the economic and political leanings of the new occupant of the White House; the continuing rise of China and its consequences on the global order and so on. Britain’s tabula rasa moment is fraught with possibility and peril.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-95
30-12-2020||Opinion||Speak up: Loujain al-Hathloul sent to prison||Sir — The wheels of justice turn slowly; for some they come to a grinding halt. At such times, it is important that the common people come together and ensure the delivery of justice through peaceful protest. Such a time seems ripe for Saudi Arabia, where the activist, Loujain al-Hathloul — she, among others, had claimed driving rights for women — has been sentenced to over five years in prison. Her supporters suspect political vendetta since she challenged the authorities with her stance. People must protest against this injustice vociferously so that more women are encouraged to fight for their rights. Aradhana Bose,Calcutta Take a stand Sir — It is encouraging that students, teachers, cultural activists and eminent personalities have come out in support of Amartya Sen, after the vice-chancellor of Visva-Bharati allegedly attempted to malign the Nobel laureate (“Plot seen in barbs at Sen”, Dec 28). Not only has the Central university named Sen in its list of illegal occupants on the campus, but the vice-chancellor has also made certain claims about a telephonic conversation that the economist has refuted downright. The attempt to target educationists and activists whenever they speak up against the ruling dispensation — in a state or at the Centre — is not new; neither is such behaviour unique to the Bharatiya Janata Party. Now that the BJP is trying to capture Bengal at the hustings this year, the Centre seems to be up in arms against any dissenter. Sen is entitled to his own political opinions. Besides, far from trying to persecute him for his views, the government would do well to heed his views as an economist. After all, how long will blind faith keep people oblivious to poverty and misery? However, in raising their voice in protest, the people of Bengal have shown that it was a misstep to target Sen. The allegations against Sen must be investigated and strict measures must be taken against the person at fault. The disrespectful accusation also raises an important question — does the saffron party understand the sentiments of Bengal? If it does not, then how will it respect the Bengali culture even if it manages to come to power? Alokananda Ghosh,Calcutta Sir — The attempt by the authorities of Visva-Bharati to defame Amartya Sen has caused a lot of hurt to the people of Bengal. Every citizen of Bengal is proud of the Nobel laureate. The university should not forget the contributions of Sen and his family to its development. This ingratitude is unjust and cannot be morally supported. Shyamal Thakur,Ramnagar, East Burdwan Sir — It would be really petty of the Visva-Bharati authorities if they are trying to malign Amartya Sen’s legacy in a political ploy. It is curious how there can be a miscommunication on such a basic level — the vice-chancellor apparently had a conversation with Sen where the latter called himself ‘Bharat Ratna’ and asked the former to let hawkers stay in the vicinity of his house, whereas Sen has denied not only the phone call but also the fact that there are any hawkers outside his house. This is absurd, and makes one wonder if there is a third party at play that is yet to be revealed. The plot gets thicker. Ratan Samanta,Calcutta Moment of glory Sir — It is heartening that Mahendra Singh Dhoni was named captain of the decade for both the one-day international and Twenty-20 International teams by the International Cricket Council while Virat Kohli has made his mark in world cricket by being voted the skipper of the Test team. The teams of the decades were announced by the ICC ahead of the Awards of the Decade ceremony. Indian players dominated the limited-over teams by having three and four players in the ODI and T20I respectively while England have the maximum number of players — four — in the Test side. The 39-year-old Dhoni, who retired from international cricket earlier this year, was one of the three Indians in the ODI team of the decade, the others being Rohit Sharma and Kohli. Ravichandran Ashwin has been named alongside Kohli in ICC Test side. Gundu K. Maniam,Ghaziabad||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-95
30-12-2020||Opinion||Talk down: Modi says farmers are misled||The prime minister, according to the Union agriculture minister, is dedicated to farmers’ welfare. No pressure can influence his determination to improve their economic condition. Narendra Modi himself has said that his government will keep on working to better the condition of Indian agriculture and has repeatedly declared how excellent the three new farm laws are and how much they will elevate the farmers’ lot. But confronted with a seemingly immovable phalanx of farmers in their thousands positioned at the entry points into Delhi with the demand that the laws be repealed, Mr Modi has adopted a lofty tone of paternalistic benevolence — he believes the protesters do not know what is good for them. He does. Condescension seems to be the best strategy after a first burst of name-calling. The protesters, of whom farmers from Punjab form a large segment, were called ‘Khalistanis’, and ‘urban Naxals’. But that failed to discredit the movement. The farmers responded with dignity and righteous anger, grew in numbers and in unity against what they see in general terms as ‘pro-corporate’ laws, although their list of objections is precise and carefully thought-out, and their reasoning, whether one agrees with it or not, is clear as day. The prime minister however, claims that they are being ‘misled’ by the Opposition which failed to implement similar laws for farmers’ welfare and ‘fooled’ by those with vested interests. Mr Modi’s superior tone with farmers seems aimed at two goals: one, bashing the Opposition and two, evading the protesters’ demands by insisting they know not what they do. They should not ‘believe the lies’ being spread by politically motivated elements. It seems strange that the prime minister, who is professedly willing to meet the farmers with ‘bowed head’ to resolve their doubts, should have such little respect for the wisdom, hard work and sagacity of those who feed the country and who have incisively taken the new farm laws apart. Sharing this attitude, Rajnath Singh asked farmers to try out the laws for a year or two. Did he think he was speaking to uncomprehending children? But Mr Modi’s smooth expressions of considerate superiority can hardly hide the fact that the government has made no progress in its much-touted ‘dialogue’ with the protesters or convinced them of its positive intentions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-95
30-12-2020||Opinion||The AIMIM and Indian secularism||Asaduddin Owaisi, who was a Muslim leader confined to Hyderabad, is now staking a claim to become an all-India Muslim leader. He is being credited with bringing back the question of political representation to Muslims who have been witnessing a steady marginalization. Is the decline of Muslim representation the truth about Indian secularism or is the rise of Owaisi and his party, the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen, the result of Indian secularism? Is voting for the AIMIM any different from voting for the Bharatiya Janata Party? Is it not true that the consolidation of the Muslim vote for a Muslim party, moving away from the Congress and the regional parties, results in the consolidation of the Hindu votes for the BJP? The rise of the BJP on a polarized narrative made it difficult for other parties, including the Congress, to not be accused of appeasement. In response, most of them resorted to what is known as ‘soft Hindutva’, avoiding explicit support to Muslim-related issues of culture, identity and social opportunities. The BJP not only polarized the elections but also gained by accommodating wider representation among subcastes within Dalits and the OBCs. As a result, the BJP expanded its social base, created a pan-Hindu constituency, and arrested the Opposition parties from claiming the support of the ‘Hindu’ base apart from rendering their support for Muslims suspect. They ended up being branded pseudo-secular from both ends. Aggressive and resurgent Hindu consciousness blamed them for Muslim appeasement while Muslims blamed them for ‘soft Hindutva’. It is in this context that the AIMIM provided much needed relief for Muslims by coming forward to voice their grievances and expand their representation. After Owaisi’s bid in Maharashtra, his party won five seats in Bihar. The AIMIM is confident of doing well in Bengal. On social media, middle class Muslims are glad that Muslims are regaining the lost space. Poorer Muslims are left with little choice but to vote for the AIMIM to get an assurance of protection. However, wherever the AIMIM is performing well, it seems to be aiding the BJP by splitting the Muslim vote. The impact of this was most profound in Bihar where the elections were closely fought. The outcome became even murkier with Owaisi announcing that he would wait and decide which party to support in the eventuality of a hung assembly. His reasoning seems to be that as far as Muslims are concerned, it makes no difference whether it is the Congress led-secular formation or the BJP-led ‘communal’ formation as both have shortchanged the Muslims and robbed them of their rightful dues. This argument is similar to the Dalit-Bahujan view that the Congress and the Left parties are no different from the BJP when it comes to providing opportunities to the marginalized castes. The support of marginalized castes and now Muslim votes cannot be taken for granted by highlighting the impending threat of the BJP. Dalit-Bahujans and Muslims prefer to improve their own footprint. Significantly, Owaisi is pitching for an independent Muslim politics in alliance with Dalit parties like the Bahujan Samaj Party in Bihar and the Republican Party of India in Maharashtra. The accusation made by the Dalit-Bahujans and, now, by Owaisi that the Congress, Left and regional parties did not do much to fulfil their aspirations cannot be denied. But it is also relevant to ask if representation alone would make a difference. Did Dalit representatives succeed in bringing about radical transformation to the community? What kind of a difference can Owaisi make with a few MLAs and perhaps a few MPs in the future? Would it be any different from what Congress and others achieved in the past, except that now Dalit-Bahujans-Muslims themselves will be able to make their own demands? The core problem is that the gap in social and economic power among castes, classes and religious groups is so humongous that representation has become the only possible mode of forging marginal but palpable change. It is, again, similar to the policy of reservations that benefited a small segment of Dalits but this does not justify critiquing reservations. Similarly, representation cannot bring about much change, but there cannot be a political or moral critique of it. On the scale of real-time economic opportunities and social mobility, the BJP does not seem to present a threat as things were no better before it rose to power; the BJP will only consolidate the power of Hindus over Muslims, upper-castes over Dalit-Bahujans and higher-end middle and corporate classes over the working classes. It will, in addition, provide an ideological justification for removing reservations, for disenfranchising Muslims and aggressively supporting the corporates, even as it offers more representation to smaller castes. Majoritarianism is pushing marginalized social groups to a corner, forcing them to succumb and surrender. This is not being done through force alone, even though intimidation plays an important role. This end is also being achieved by producing a strategy where, in Owaisi’s case, legitimate aspirations of Muslims become a template for consolidating the grip of the BJP. In a way, history is repeating itself. Syed Shahabuddin was encouraged into active politics by Atal Bihari Vajpayee, and his aggressive posturing on Babri Masjid and personal laws took the BJP from 2 seats to 182. What Shahabuddin was for the Atal-Advani duo, Owaisi is for the Modi-Shah pair. Owaisi’s consolidation of Muslim votes will result in a counter-consolidation of Hindu votes and the BJP will surge forward.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-95
30-12-2020||Opinion||Goodwill hunting||The Bharatiya Janata Party is on the hunt for icons in Bengal. It cannot be faulted for stalking Bengal’s manishis, even though men and women of learning and wisdom have not been known to win elections for political parties. The BJP’s pursuit then must have something to do with the Sons of Soil Doctrine that has an undeniable political appeal for a party battling the perception of being rooted in territory — geographical and cultural — that is distant from Bengal’s borders in spite of its electoral ascendancy in the rest of India. Bengal, therefore, must be made to believe that the ‘B’ in BJP stands for ‘Bengali’ — even if it is only for a while. The hunt began well. Shyama Prasad Mookerjee has been safely tucked inside the saffron jhuli (for years now), even though in Sixteen Stormy Days Tripurdaman Singh identified the founder of the Bharatiya Jana Sangh as one of the earliest champions of civil liberties, individual freedoms and a liberal India. Mookerjee and several other luminaries, Singh writes, took the battle to Jawaharlal Nehru over the maiden — and controversial — amendment to the Constitution. Having slipped 17 places on the Human Freedom Index this year, New India, now ranked 111 among 162 countries, may have rejected Mookerjee’s libertarian legacy comprehensively. Swami Vivekananda, however, is sticking out like a sore thumb from Hindutva’s Bag of Appropriation. Even a cursory reading of the Swami’s electrifying speech in Chicago in 1893, to cite just one example, would reveal it to be an unambiguous rejection — condemnation — of bigotry and dogmatism, the poisons that are now flowing through the veins of a sectarian polity (“Sectarianism, bigotry, and its horrible descendant, fanaticism, have long possessed this beautiful earth... But their time is come; and I fervently hope that the bell that tolled this morning in honor of this convention may be the death-knell of all fanaticism, of all persecutions...”). Rabindranath Tagore is resisting the siege too. During his recent address on the occasion of the centenary celebrations of Visva-Bharati, the prime minister managed to spot — he, as is the wont of visionaries, sees things that others cannot — the contours of his Atmanirbhar Bharat within the Tagorean vision. Narendra Modi’s remark apparently left beads of perspiration on the visage of the university’s old-timers. Was the message of self-reliance, they reportedly wondered, a cipher for a further cut in funding for Visva-Bharati by its chancellor? Those engaged cerebrally with Tagore may have been perspiring too — but with indignation. Tagore’s visceral opposition to shrill nationalism, the kind that the BJP is fanning eagerly, is well-documented. “India has never had a real sense of nationalism,” Bengal’s foremost icon had written in “Nationalism in India” (1917). “Even though from childhood I had been taught that the idolatry of Nation is almost better than reverence for God and humanity, I believe I have outgrown that teaching, and it is my conviction that my countrymen will gain truly their India by fighting against that education which teaches them that a country is greater than the ideals of humanity.” This passage may not be palatable to an India that is being taught to demonize critics and dissenters as unpatriotic savages. The BJP’s IT cell getting Tagore’s birthplace wrong — the Nobel laureate, the state party unit had tweeted, was born in Visva-Bharati! — may have been a perfectly understandable Freudian slip. The vilification of Bengal’s second Nobel laureate, another manishi committed to the idea of Old India, by Visva-Bharati’s present vice-chancellor, an official who supposedly has the Centre’s ear, appears to be a conscious choice. How has the BJP fared with some others? There are too many pieces of Vidyasagar for the BJP to gather after that shameful desecration of his statue inside a college in the city last year. Birsa Munda, the freedom fighter revered in Bengal’s tribal pockets, was won — and, alas, lost. The Bharat Jakat Majhi Pargana Mahal let Bengal know that the statue that the Union home minister garlanded solemnly was that of an anonymous hunter. History in the BJP’s hands is seldom set in stone. Dilip Ghosh, the state BJP president, decreed that his party would henceforth consider the figurine of the anonymous adivasi to be that of Munda. The home minister, evidently, has been blessed with Kafkaesque hands. Another departed icon slipped from the BJP’s eager hands the following month. This time, ignorant party workers, it has been reported, went to meet Jahar Ganguly, not knowing that the actor had died in 1969. None should doubt the doggedness of the BJP’s chase. Cold shouldered by flesh-and-blood icons, the party may well scour Bengal’s literary firmament for the stars that it needs. But even fictive heroes may prove to be elusive for India’s ruling party. Feluda looks best holding a Charminar, not the lotus. Professor Shonku is a man of science. And science — a realm lit up by reason, rationality, facts — is the least favourite of the BJP’s subjects. There is a line of thought that says Ghanashyam Das, quintessentially Bengali in his love for food and leisure, may hold out some hope. In his 75th year of existence, Ghanada remains Bengal’s beloved chronicler of tall tales. Now the BJP, uncharitable opponents insist, knows a thing or two about spinning a yarn. Its stories, about the economy, about sabka vikas and, now, about an impregnable border, have been just that — one tall tale piled neatly upon another. But then Ghanada is certain to fail the parivar’s ideological test. An intelligent reading of his adventures would reveal that this literary hero is emblematic of harmony, effortlessly fusing such competing forces as empiricism and imagination, myth and history. Harmony as a synonym for hegemony — is that not the grammar of politics that dominates India today? — would have not got a single tale out of a sullen Ghanada’s mouth. Of course, the BJP is responding energetically to the barb of being an outsider in Bengal. The prime minister attempted to counter such insinuations with homilies of shared associations. The Tagores, Mr Modi said in his address, had spent time in Ahmedabad, adding that Jnanadanandini Devi, the wife of Satyendranath Tagore, may have learnt to drape the sari in a particular way from Gujarat’s women. But the Trinamul Congress is in no mood to share the icons that it believes are its sole possession: a senior functionary retorted that Parsi women must be given a share for Jnanadanandini’s sartorial revolution. These bizarre exchanges would have been mildly comical had it not been for the greater unfolding tragedy in which the TMC is complicit along with the BJP. Regional identity has been made vulnerable to political weaponization with electoral adversaries keeping the sub-national pot and its narratives on the boil. Modi has special use for Gujarati asmita. He has repeatedly invoked this template of parochial pride — in effect, an indigenous version of the identitarian sensibility — to project a sense of solidarity with a people who are made to believe in slights, real or imagined. The TMC may have simply taken a leaf out of Modi’s book, forcing the BJP to cry wolf. The chief contenders for Bengal’s political crown are relying on two different kinds of divisive insularities — one majoritarian, the other ethno-cultural — to win an assembly election in a country that is meant to uphold — politically, philosophically and constitutionally — the notion of wholeness. But that is not the only irony. The ingenious application of provincialism in the defence of the fraying ethos of pluralism is indicative of a larger regression that would have made Bengal’s icons shudder. uddalak.mukherjee@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-96
