31-12-2020||Opinion||Step in: upgrading anganwadis||It is an unfortunate country in which many feel compelled to doubt the government’s motives even in a move towards improvement. In Uttar Pradesh, 500 anganwadis will be upgraded jointly by the Anil Agarwal Foundation, the philanthropic arm of the mining company, Vedanta, and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation in partnership with the Centre. This is creating discomfort. The anganwadi programme, maintained by the Integrated Child Development Services, provides pre-school children and their mothers from underprivileged backgrounds with nutrition, apart from offering the children basic learning through play and, often, daycare. Although anganwadis face numerous drawbacks, including in infrastructure and spread, their success in reducing infant mortality rates and making a dent in early malnutrition has been acknowledged. Their failures are largely a result of government disinterest: a parliamentary standing committee report shows that in 2020-21 the women and child development ministry that houses the anganwadi programme received one per cent of the budget — as in the last five years. But children and women make up 67.7 per cent of the population. The government may be short of funds for anganwadis, although it has no problems building a Statue of Unity or a Central Vista. No one denies that upgrading the anganwadis is needed; private bodies can provide certain fixed and time-bound services under government guidance. Yet many feel that the move in UP is the first step towards privatization. Worse, there is no transparency in the way the Anil Agarwal Foundation was chosen. It has been running Nand Ghars or modern anganwadis with the best amenities — reportedly 1,700 by 2015. It is far from reassuring that the name is meant to suggest the house of the child Krishna. Nand Ghars are being presented as the model that should be replicated by anganwadis across the country. Yet Vedanta, the foundation’s parent organization, has been severely criticized for violating the human rights of tribal people in Odisha as well as environmental safety measures. Full privatization, if it happens, or absorption into school complexes, as the National Education Policy proposes, will defeat the anganwadis’ purpose. And there should be transparency in selecting private entities that can help in the programme. The slightest hint of religious labelling should be avoided. Anganwadis are India’s pride. Governments should treat them as such.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-95
31-12-2020||Opinion||Changing plan: Rajinikanth to not launch party||Sir — It was unfortunate to read that the Tamil superstar, Rajinikanth, has declared that he will not foray into politics, citing ill health and his general vulnerability to Covid-19. The announcement comes two days before he was supposed to float his own political party (“Rajini cites God, calls off political plunge”, Dec 30). Rajinikanth was recently hospitalized as a precautionary measure against a possible coronavirus infection — four members of the crew of the film that he was shooting for in Ramoji Film City in Hyderabad had tested positive. Although he eventually tested negative, he had to be kept under observation owing to severe fluctuations in blood pressure. The actor, who earlier underwent a kidney transplant and is on immuno-suppressants, sees his recent hospitalization as a “warning from” God to not venture into the murky waters of politics. While the thalaivar, as he is fondly referred to by his admirers, has apologized for the reversal in his decision, his multitude of fans will certainly be disappointed. Rajinikanth was expected to launch a party on December 31 and field candidates in all 234 seats in the upcoming assembly elections in Tamil Nadu. But he has rightly decided to prioritize his health, as he should, especially during a pandemic. His fans must respect his decision and pray for his full recovery. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — After much anticipation, Rajinikanth has finally announced that he is not floating a new political party and contesting the upcoming state assembly polls, citing health reasons. A deeply religious man, he regarded his recent hospitalization as a divine warning against entering politics. His occasional speeches to the public had many of us wondering if he was reluctant to join politics but was doing so owing to external pressure. In any case, in view of the pandemic and his history of kidney-related surgery, it seems that even if he did venture into politics he might not have been able to continue for long. An extensive campaign would have required him to be healthy. It seems that Rajinikanth’s decision has a silver lining. His espousal of ‘spiritual politics’ indicates that he is inclined towards the right on the political spectrum. This might have led to a greater saffronization of politics in Tamil Nadu. While the actor has endeared himself to his fans through his humility and gratitude, his ill-disguised endorsement of Hindu nationalism has been alarming. Whether he extends his support to any party or front in the run-up to the assembly elections remains to be seen. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — While it is disappointing that Rajinikanth has declared that he will not be entering politics after much anticipation, we must respect his decision. His ill-health is indeed a matter of concern. The people of Tamil Nadu had hoped that once Rajinikanth — he is known to be morally righteous — entered politics, he would be able to bring about changes within the system. His decision has probably come as a relief to all other political parties which must have been wary of the actor’s reach among the people. Perhaps his announcement will be seen as a boon by the other beloved Tamil actor-turned-politician, Kamal Haasan, whose party, the Makkal Needhi Maiam, performed quite poorly in the 2019 general elections. N. Mahadevan,Chennai Cruel intentions Sir — The resident of a housing complex in Calcutta was recently charged with animal cruelty after a neighbour accused the man of keeping cats and dogs caged in his apartment. Moreover it was found that the owner did not usually live  there but had a domestic help look after the pets. It is heartening that the police immediately took cognizance of the matter and initiated action against the accused. There are plenty of such instances of neglect; dogs are often kept tightly and indefinitely chained. Unless the offenders are dealt with strictly and swiftly, it will be impossible to remedy the situation. Sramana Dey,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-95
31-12-2020||Opinion||Poor hand: strife within Congress||The Congress, given its waning political fortunes, could do with a pep talk. Sonia Gandhi, the interim party president, chose the occasion of the party’s foundation day to help revive the flagging morale of the Congress rank and file, urging party workers to defend the edifice of democracy and the spirit of constitutionalism both of which, Ms Gandhi said, are experiencing considerable duress under the present regime. Ms Gandhi’s concerns about this regression cannot be denied. Neither can the Congress’s courageous role in the freedom movement be effaced. A collective pledge to revive India’s fabric of inclusion on the part of the principal Opposition party is an honourable goal. But what Ms Gandhi chose to ignore in her speech is the absence of another kind of commitment: that of the Congressmen towards the party. Even the highest echelons of the Congress, it can be argued, are not immune to this inertia. Rahul Gandhi was conspicuous by his absence during the foundation day celebration. To be fair to Mr Gandhi, his record of attendance has never inspired confidence. He was on vacation when the Congress was fighting the elections in Bihar. His absence was also noted during the passage of the contentious farm bills. Then there is the perpetual dithering over resuming command of the party. This hide-and-seek routine has made it easier for Mr Gandhi’s detractors within and outside the Congress to allege that he is neither consistent nor committed when it comes to critical issues. The crisis in leadership has serious ramifications not only for the Congress but also for India. A weak central leadership, coupled with the party’s political decline, has made it easier for Congress workers to cross the ideological barrier and embrace the Bharatiya Janata Party. Defections from the bottom and the top have cost the party a number of states in which it was in power. These defections are as much the result of the Congress’s internal schisms as personal ambition triumphing over ideological fidelity. These ugly warts have undermined the Congress’s electoral appeal further, preventing it from mobilizing public opinion on some of the monumental debacles committed by the BJP. An emaciated Congress has not demonstrated the requisite willingness or the energy to battle India’s discernible tilt towards polarization. Ms Gandhi’s clarion call — the fight for a secular, constitutional India — cannot be ignored. But the Congress needs to put its house in order if it hopes to take on this responsibility. The signs of either happening appear to be bleak at the moment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-95
31-12-2020||Opinion||The Crown and the prime minister||I never was one for long-drawn-out television series. I must confess to having eschewed House of Cards, Breaking Bad, Game of Thrones, but the lockdown felled me. I took to watching The Crown, the Netflix series that hovers between fact and fiction documenting the many episodes of Britain’s longest reigning monarch, Queen Elizabeth. The series is not gripping: it is quite like the English cuisine that is bland. Yet, it has got everyone hooked. Perhaps that is because it caters to a baser, but common, human trait: inquisitiveness. Everyone knows of the Windsor family but none really knows anything about them. As I watched the series, I was struck by the following elements: the constant attempts to protect the idea of what the Queen and her family represent; the suggestion of the Queen and her family being out of touch with reality; their inability, and even unwillingness, to change, fearing it would dilute what they represent to the ordinary Briton; the substantial cost of maintaining the façade. These elements made me realize that there is a lot in common between the prime minister, Narendra Modi, and Queen Elizabeth. ‘Protecting an ideal’ is a case in point. In India, the ideas of leadership and democracy have been undergoing a process of modification over the last few years. Gone is the time when one was concerned with what the prime ministership represented; today, the country is focused on what the current prime minister represents. A prime ministership is usually concerned with representing a country; however, Modi chooses to represent an ideology that craves respect. The prime minister and his team of managers have, therefore, created a multidimensional aura around him. He is a man of the world: his sartorial choices, proclivity to hug leaders, penchant for acronyms and the ability to hold monologues on pre-organized topics are supposed to bear proof of that. Modi is also presented as a man with a commitment to tradition: there are thus photographs of the prime minister with his mother, the man meditating in a cave, Modi’s yoga poses. Finally, he is heralded as the man of the moment. Claims of a superhuman work ethic and his proclamation of ‘restoring’ the nation’s ‘respect’ have been swallowed by many Indians. Modi is the embodiment of a ‘new’ India. To question or criticize him or his government is considered to be a slight against the nation. Like the Queen, he does not hold press briefings; so the aura created around him remains unblemished. In The Crown, the Queen explains that her unresponsiveness is intended to make sure that there is no hint of royal favour. Modi seems to have altered the Queen’s logic; he seems to believe that a response could legitimize a contrarian point of view. This, in turn, can be construed as an acknowledgement of a mistake that would sully his image. As the leader of the nation, Modi, it is believed, has a finger on the country’s pulse. Unfortunately, his utterances during the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protests, his photo shoot with peacocks during the Chinese intrusions, and his handling of the farmers’ agitation suggest that like the fictionalized Windsors, Modi and his government are out of step with reality. Although the promise is to take India to the next century, the path that has been chosen resonates with an ancient time when religion mapped out people’s lives and power was concentrated in the monarchy. The prime minister asks the nation to do as he says, but he ignores concerns that the organs of this democracy are now beholden to him and his party. The Crown discusses the monarchy’s cost to the British exchequer; in India, there is debate on the costs of Modi’s leadership. On the one hand, there are claims of a ‘new-found respect for India’. On the other hand, there is the Galwan debacle; Modi’s approval of Donald Trump before the American presidential election; the implementation of a poorly planned nationwide lockdown that has been bettered, arguably, only by demonetization. There is concern of the pillars of democracy corroding; India’s apolitical, mighty army has also been labelled ‘Modiji ki sena’. When Henry IV said, “Uneasy lies the head that wears a crown”, in William Shakespeare’s Henry IV, he was alluding to the responsibilities of a king that keep him awake at night. In a democracy, this, however, can refer to the fear of being voted out of power. But this concern may be short-lived. There are alleged murmurs of an excess of democracy in India. Is there then a coronation round the corner?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-95
31-12-2020||Opinion||Regional tug of war: Great Game in Myanmar||After her landslide victory in November’s elections, Aung San Suu Kyi and her government are destined to become part of a regional ‘tug-of-war’ for influence centered around China’s growing sway in the country. Tokyo is leading the charge to wean Myanmar away from Beijing. But New Delhi is also hoping to exert influence in the ‘Great Game’ centered on Myanmar, especially in the light of the deterioration in Sino-Indian relations over the past year. With the imminent changing of the guard in Washington — with a more outward looking Joe Biden administration taking over — the United States of America can also be expected to re-enter the fray. Fresh from its overwhelming victory in last month’s elections, Myanmar’s ruling party, the National League for Democracy, now faces enormous challenges — rebooting the country’s flagging economy, worsened by the pandemic and the international recession, and pressing on with its economic reform programme; tackling Myanmar’s pressing need for constitutional reform, and regenerating efforts to finally end decades of civil war. Invigorated by its electoral success, the NLD has clearly indicated the policies and priorities it intends to pursue in the next five years, building on the solid foundation laid down in the past five years with renewed energy and political commitment. Most analysts and diplomats believe that the government’s key policy directions will not change substantially; instead they will be deepened, strengthened, and concertedly implemented in the coming months. There is already a new sense of urgency in government circles in Naypyidaw and feverish activity in the administration as it prepares its strategy and vision for the incoming government’s first 100 days. One of those policies that are expected to experience nuanced change is foreign policy, especially in relation to Myanmar’s neighbours. Five years on, the regional and international architecture have also changed significantly, with the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic likely to have a lasting effect on foreign relations — especially trade — in the coming decade. It will necessitate the Myanmar government to re-evaluate its policy priorities and its relationships. Meanwhile, the Myanmar government has not been short of suitors. The outcome is likely to be a significantly new, nuanced approach to its foreign relations. In the lead up to Myanmar’s elections last month, there was a flurry of diplomatic activity — largely behind the scenes — as the region’s major powers all sought to curry favour with the country’s civilian leader, Aung San Suu Kyi, as well as with the powerful army commander-in-chief, Min Aung Hlaing. There was a parade of important visitors through the capital, Naypyidaw, as politicians and senior diplomats from the region’s key nations, especially China, India and Japan, engaged in a quiet battle for greater influence in Myanmar post-election. Other important Asian players, notably South Korea and Thailand, also launched equally significant initiatives. As the State Counsellor, Aung San Suu Kyi, prepares for the next five years in office, her government is restructuring its foreign policy priorities around its key concerns: maintaining its neutrality and independent international stance while encouraging support for Myanmar’s economic recovery plans, including boosting international trade and foreign investment, diversifying its informal alliances and security arrangements, and ensuring that the country is not overly dependent on any one nation for support and protection. In the past five years, Aung San Suu Kyi has pursued a foreign policy strategy that put the country’s key emphasis on its relations with the region and its top powers. This was in response to some degree to the growing Western criticism of the government’s handling of the violence in Rakhine and the mass exodus of nearly a million Muslim refugees — or Rohingya as they call themselves — to neighbouring Bangladesh. Myanmar was anxious to secure greater support from its Asian ‘friends’, especially at international forums like the United Nations. This effectively meant distancing itself from the West, especially Europe and the US. This has led the country to lean heavily on China and, to a lesser degree, on the regional bloc, Asean, for support and as a source of investment and trade. Of course, deep down, Myanmar’s fast developing dependence on China has irked the country’s diplomats, including its top diplomat, Aung San Suu Kyi, who is also the foreign minister. There is a clear recognition in government circles that Myanmar’s relationship with China needs to be significantly calibrated. Myanmar will use the opportunity of its massive political mandate and the changing post-Covid international environment to adjust its policy orientation and begin to look westwards to balance its reliance on China — strengthening ties with India and encouraging warmer relations with the US, in particular. Going forward, Myanmar wants to broaden its network of alliances and strong bilateral relationships, while remaining loyal to the country’s traditional ideological principles in foreign policy: non-alignment, neutrality, independence and universal friendship. But the international reality and the legacy of the country’s isolation during its period under military rule have meant that China remains its key partner — an ever-present, ever-dependable and uncritical supporter. Aung San Suu Kyi has had to struggle with this conundrum ever since assuming power after the 2015 elections: how to relax Myanmar’s dependence on Beijing without offending its giant northern neighbour. For a while, Aung San Suu Kyi dabbled with the notion of eliciting collaborative support from an ‘Asian triumvirate’ of China, Japan and South Korea, especially in terms of investment and trade. But she seemed oblivious to the obstacles that the political realities and rivalries in North Asia posed to this vision. It now seems that Myanmar has become much more responsive to Delhi’s recent overtures for strengthened ties between the two countries. India has stepped up its courtship of Myanmar in the light of Delhi’s deteriorating relations with Beijing. The visit to Myanmar by India’s foreign secretary, Harsh Shringla, who was accompanied by the Indian army chief, M.M. Naravane, a month before the elections clearly reflects India’s interest in weaning Myanmar away from Beijing, or at least helping counter Beijing’s influence in Myanmar. Ostensibly, this was a visit to review and consolidate cooperation on security and development issues. A coastal shipping agreement with Myanmar was signed during a meeting with Aung San Suu Kyi. More importantly, it has opened the door to greater cooperation on a wide range of issues, including military matters, according to Myanmar diplomats. The importance of this strategic initiative cannot be underestimated: the fact that India’s top diplomat and top military man made a joint visit to Myanmar is highly significant, according to Asian diplomats, and was counter to the usual protocol. That it was timed just before the elections was no coincidence. It is something that their Myanmar counterparts appreciated only too well. There have also been behind-the-scene discussions on how Japan and India could cooperate on strategic, security and development initiatives that could help balance China’s penetration into Myanmar. The resuscitation of the Quad, involving diplomats from Australia, India, Japan, and the US sharing their vision and concerns of a free and open Indo-Pacific strategy, has galvanized cooperation among these four countries to counter China’s aggressive and belligerent posturing in the region. “It’s a valuable venue for sharing information and intelligence, coordinating approaches and generally promoting mutual understanding,” according to an Asian diplomat involved with these meetings. The idea was conceived by Tokyo several years ago, but has only got off the ground in the last 12 months as relations in the region with Beijing took a turn for the worst. India and Japan have cooperated successfully on infrastructure projects in Bangladesh, including the building of a port at Matabari to counter the Chinese-built port at Payra. This model of cooperation can provide a framework for similar initiatives in Myanmar, according to Indian and Japanese diplomats. While Japan is prepared to bankroll many of these potential projects, it is particularly keen to maintain a ‘low-key’ presence. While Myanmar has responded enthusiastically to India’s overtures, it may be even more enthusiastic about Indo-Japanese cooperation. What is certain is that Myanmar’s foreign policy will undergo changes in the coming months, including a distinct tilt westwards, as it broadens its strategic approach and tries to veer away from its unhealthy reliance on Beijing. The main focus of Myanmar’s foreign policy will be on strengthening its economic and security ties with regional partners — especially India, Japan, Thailand, South Korea and Singapore — while continuing to maintain good relations with China. The author is a former BBC World Service news editor for Asia and is based in Myanmar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-95
