01-06-2021||First Edit||GST Council tinkers while Indian economy burns||The GST Council, which met last Friday, had many important issues before it but did not make a decision on many of them. These issues had been discussed and the implications of the decisions on them were known even before the Council met. So, there was little justification for putting them off. An amnesty scheme was announced for small firms failing to file their GST returns on time. Interest was waived for late-payments and some compliance deadlines were extended. Considering that reducing the burden on business, and on all others whose finances were hit by the Covid-19 pandemic, was an important consideration, this was welcome. But bigger businesses were hit, too, and they could also have been offered relief. The steady increase in fuel prices had given rise to the idea of bringing them under GST. But eventually, no decision was taken on that.  There was no decision on a waiver of taxes on Covid-19 essentials, either. The Council discussed the matter, but a decision was left to a Group of Ministers (GoM) which will present its report by June 8. Even if the GoM recommends a waiver, a decision can be taken only at the next GST meeting.  So, there will not be any immediate relief. The Centre did not seem to be keen on such a waiver. It has been argued that the taxes on vaccines and drugs are not very high and so a waiver may not be of much help to patients and their families. But the finances of families are stretched and a waiver, even if it is small, may lessen the burden on many. Even symbolic gestures are important in these times.  The Centre has said that it will compensate the states for the shortfall in their revenue collections through market borrowing to the tune of Rs 1.58 lakh crore. The states’ fiscal position has been further strained by the second wave of the pandemic and they need strong support from the Centre.  Some states, including Tamil Nadu, wanted permission to impose a special state levy on their own to tide over the situation. This would go against the idea and design of GST as such. But there are some issues that need to be addressed and resolved. The Centre has assumed a GDP growth rate of 7% to compute the compensation amount for this year.  But the actual rate of growth may be less than that. There is a shortfall in last year’s payment also which needs to be taken care of. Some states have also demanded that the compensation cess should be extended beyond 2022. All these issues need to be discussed and settled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/gst-council-tinkers-while-indian-economy-burns-992302.html
01-06-2021||In Perspective||As ‘Vaccine Maitri’ flops, China steps in||“In planning and executing Vaccine Maitri, we are naturally guided by a determination to make a difference at a difficult moment for global society. Our reputation as the ‘Pharmacy of the World’ has been reinforced in that process. So indeed has the faith in ‘Make in India’. But more than the vaccines themselves, our policies and conduct have emerged as a source of strength for the stressed and vulnerable nations of the world.” — External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, in a statement in the Lok Sabha on March 17.  The irony of these remarks is inescapable. For India now finds itself in the unenviable position of being unable to meet the needs of countries to whom it had promised vaccines, struggling as it is to give jabs to its own citizens. Though some may argue that the sheer ferocity of the second wave of the pandemic could not have been anticipated, this once again reinforces the widespread belief that India, more often than not, over-promises and under-delivers in its immediate neighbourhood.  India had raised its neighbours’ expectations when it launched ‘Vaccine Maitri’, playing the role of big brother and benefactor in equal measure. It hoped to earn not just the neighbourhood’s but also the world’s goodwill through ‘Vaccine Maitri’.   But the well-intended policy now lies in tatters. It was launched in January, with India dispatching consignments of AstraZeneca’s Covishield vaccine as ‘gifts’ (under grant assistance) to neighbours Nepal, Bhutan, Bangladesh as well as the Indian Ocean nations of Sri Lanka, Maldives, Mauritius and Seychelles — all important elements in India’s geostrategic calculus.  With its mantra of ‘Neighbourhood First’, it only seemed appropriate at that point for India to show vaccine generosity to countries with whom it shares long borders or are in its periphery. The Serum Institute of India manufactured vaccines that were dispatched to other countries too -- in the Gulf, Africa and Latin America — by way of grant assistance and commercial sales.  By mid-April, India had dispatched 10.7 million doses of Covishield as gifts and 35.7 million doses under commercial deals. It also contributed around 19.86 million vaccine doses to Covax, the international effort to ensure that there is equitable access to vaccines for all nations, be they rich or poor.  But the same month came the second wave, and its fury ensured that vaccine exports came to a grinding halt. The failure to anticipate and therefore prepare for the pandemic’s devastating second wave meant that India’s vaccination drive within the country acquired a sense of urgency, and understandably so. But there was collateral damage for India’s neighbours, who were relying on it for vaccine doses. The capital invested in vaccine diplomacy clearly had no follow-through in terms of ramping up vaccine production capacities in the event of a second wave to meet domestic requirements as well as commercial orders from other countries. Ignoring experts’ warnings of the coming second wave, a premature declaration of victory over the pandemic and gross complacency on the vaccine availability front were recipes for disaster.    The failure to meet its commitment towards its neighbours— Nepal, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and Maldives— has meant that their vaccination drives have miserably floundered. They cannot administer the second dose to their citizens as the expected vaccines from the Serum Institute of India under commercial contracts did not reach their shores.  They have been reduced to pleading with New Delhi to at least send them vaccines to meet the requirements for the second dose. Bangladesh Foreign Minister A K Abdul Momen even called up External Affairs Minister Jaishankar recently, seeking more vaccines. A few days later, he urged the United Kingdom to bail Bangladesh out with 1.6 million Covishield vaccine doses for the second round of jabs. Nepal, too, has turned to the US and the UK.  Consequently, the goodwill India may have initially generated with ‘Vaccine Maitri’ has swiftly evaporated. Ironically, India too finds itself scrambling to source vaccines from other countries, with Jaishankar himself making a five-day visit to the US.  A little planning would have saved India the blushes and reinforced its motto of ‘Neighbourhood First’. It would have also helped India retain its first-mover advantage in its backyard where China has been making increasing in-roads.  Beijing, predictably, has swiftly seized the opportunity and is courting India’s neighbours with offers and supplies of vaccines. All the neighbours’ first choice was Covishield, but left with floundering vaccination drives in their countries, they all have now willingly turned to China for help to meet their vaccine needs.  China’s State-owned enterprise Sinopharm’s vaccine has made its way to Nepal, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and the Maldives, with the supplies being a mix of donations and commercial sales. It is yet another instance of the dragon swiftly stepping into a vacuum left by the lumbering elephant that is seemingly bereft of strategic thinking and planning. (The writer is a Delhi-based senior journalist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/as-vaccine-maitri-flops-china-steps-in-992307.html
01-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Seedlings for paddy cultivation readied in Udupi||The seedlings for initiating paddy cultivation on 2,000 acres of paddy fields that have been left fallow have been readied in the Udupi assembly constituency. The initiative of paddy cultivation on fallow land is taken up through Kedarothana Trust under the leadership of Udupi MLA Raghupathi Bhat. Brahmavar Krishi Vigyan Kendra, agriculture department and gram panchayats in Udupi have identified the paddy fields that are left fallow. Now, paddy seedlings under the Chape Neji method have been developed. 'Chape Neji' is a novel method to cultivate paddy seedlings following the mat system. In this system, the seedbed for paddy seedlings is prepared using good quality of soil with proper cohesion of soil and fertilisers. The seedlings are already readied in Krishi Vigyan Kendra in Brahmavar, Parkala, Kuthpadi, Moodubettu, and Udyavar. The seedlings will be transplanted in the first week of June. Dr M Shankar, a scientist from Krishi Vigyan Kendra in Brahmavar, said, “with the monsoon fast approaching, farmers are getting ready for paddy cultivation by levelling the field and ploughing the land. Even the seedlings are also readied. Owing to the lockdown and shortage of labourers, there was a delay in transplantation of paddy seedlings in the last two years.” For developing seedlings required for one-acre land, there is a need for 25 to 30 square meter area under mat nursery system, he said and added that under Chape Neji system, good quality of seedlings can be developed in less area of land with less expenditure. There is no question of removing weeds amid the seedlings. It can be transplanted in the paddy fields with ease, he added. For one acre land, about 80 to 100 mats of seedlings with a width of one foot and length of two feet is required. According to farmers, 'Chape Neji', helps to overcome the problem of shortage of labourers and also reduces the production cost. It helps in transplanting using a machine. Further, seedlings are readied within 15 to 18 days. This year, former students of diploma in agriculture at Krishi Vigyan Kendra have helped in preparing the seedlings. Seedlings required for 500 acres have been readied now. The remaining will be readied within a week. Dr Shankar said MO4 variety of seeds have been used for the seedlings. The Krishi Kendra is also cultivating paddy on a 200-acre land.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/seedlings-for-paddy-cultivation-readied-in-udupi-992384.html
01-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Lockdown in Udupi villages with over 50 active Covid cases||In a bid to check the transmission of Covid-19 cases, the Udupi district administration has decided to enforce full lockdown in villages that have reported more than 50 Covid-19 active cases from Wednesday (June 2). The complete lockdown will be in force for five days. The public was allowed to purchase essential commodities in these villages on Tuesday. The villages that will go for full lockdown are Shiroor, Jadkal, Kambadakone, Nata, Kavradi, Hombadi, Mandadi, Koteshwara, Haladi,  Idur Kunjnadi , Ajri, Aloor, 38 Kalathoor, 80 Badagabettu, Alevoor, Perdoor, Thenkanidiyoor, Bommarabettu, Belapu, Belle, Padubidri, Shirva, Mala, Edu, Kukkundoor, Kadthala, Marne, Palli, Nitte, Miyar, Belman, Belve, Mudradi, Varanga, said Deputy Commissioner G Jagadeesha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/lockdown-in-udupi-villages-with-over-50-active-covid-cases-992385.html
01-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19: GPs implement voluntary lockdown in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi districts||Several Gram Panchayats in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts have voluntarily implemented full lockdown and taken strict measures to contain the transmission of Covid-19. Aloor Gram Panchayat in Kundapura taluk has voluntarily implemented full lockdown from Thursday to Sunday. The residents will be allowed to purchase essentials on the remaining days as per the government guidelines. Following the rise in Covid cases, the Gram Panchayat after consulting the public and traders had decided to impose a full lockdown for four days in a week. During the full lockdown, only emergency services are allowed. As many as 62 Covid-19 positive cases have been reported in Aloor. Of which, one is undergoing treatment in a hospital in Kundapura. The remaining are in home isolation, said Aloor GP Panchayat Development Officer Susheela. The Vandse Gram Panchayat has also imposed self lockdown and has allowed public to purchase essentials on Mondays and Thursdays from 6 am to 10 am. Vandse GP president Uday Kumar Shetty said shop owners should give priority to home delivery. There is a need to keep an eye on those arriving from outside the district and they should be made to undergo the Covid-19 test. Oximeters have been given to patients in home isolation. In case children test negative but both the parents are positive, they are taken care of at Namma Bhoomi in Kanyana. People can dial 9480878283 for any help round-the-clock. The Kollamogrugram panchayat in Dakshina Kannada district has also initiated tough rules. Unnecessary movement of people is strictly prohibited after 10 am. Those who fail to wear masks are fined. The Gram Panchayat has sought the help of the police to strictly impose the rules. Neriya gram panchayat also has gone for full lockdown for four days. On the other hand, Hemmadi gram panchayat has appealed to the infected not to come out of their houses. Instead, arrangements have been made to supply essentials to their doorsteps. GP president Sathyanarayana Rao said that donors and various associations have helped in the purchase of essential commodities. The grocery kits are prepared at gram panchayat hall to be distributed among the needy. Mani Gram Panchayat has arranged free auto services to help the ration cardholders to ferry foodgrain distributed under the public distribution system. Without any means of transportation, the villagers were finding it difficult to carry foodgrain. Having realised the problems faced by the residents, Gram Panchayat president Balakrishna Alva Kodaje, along with members, has arranged autorickshaws for free transportation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-gps-implement-voluntary-lockdown-in-dakshina-kannada-udupi-districts-992401.html
01-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Seven Covid-19 deaths in Dakshina Kannada on Monday||Seven Covid-19 deaths were reported in Dakshina Kannada on Monday and the total number of deaths so far is 913. With 651 fresh cases, the active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals, in home isolation and Covid care centre are 9,133. The total Covid cases reported in Dakshina Kannada since last March is 76,199, while 66,153 have recovered so far. A total of 8,51,022 samples have been tested in the district so far. Mucormycosis Ten Mucormycosis (black fungus) cases have been reported in Dakshina Kannada district on Monday. Of the ten cases, three were from within the district and seven from other districts. The total number of black fungus cases undergoing treatment in the district is 35. A patient from outside Dakshina Kannada suffering from black fungus has succumbed to the infection, thus taking the toll to six.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/seven-covid-19-deaths-in-dakshina-kannada-on-monday-992404.html
01-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||eSamudaay launches ‘Helping Hands’ project||In a bid to support and strengthen NGOs and volunteer groups that are working round the clock to serve the people in their cities during this pandemic, eSamudaay, the local commerce (LCommerce) platform has launched project ‘Helping Hands’. The company through its SaaS (software as a service) platform will empower these individuals and groups to digitise their distribution and communication channels. It will enable them to distribute home essentials and to put out important information, services and leads pertaining to patient care on its website and app, Medarisha Lyngdoh, Co-Founder and COO, eSamudaay said. eSamudaay aims to invite individuals, NGOs, volunteer groups and apartment associations across leading metros in India. eSamudaay will train and assist them with all the digital tools for free in order to run the platform for their city/neighbourhood. The platform can be rapidly customised to identify and cater to a specific area in a city/town or be as micro as serving a particular housing society. The eSamudaay will provide complete back-end support for NGOs and associations to seamlessly assimilate information and services. These organisations and groups can distribute food, groceries, perishable items and medicines through this digital platform. They can also access critical information and resources for patient care and following Covid-19 protocols. For more details, visit https://esamudaay.com/||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/esamudaay-launches-helping-hands-project-992440.html
01-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Leopard attacks and severely injures woman||A leopard reportedly attacked a woman at Kurubarahalli in Hiriyur taluk on Tuesday. She sustained severe injuries and she is undergoing treatment in taluk general hospital in Hiriyur town. According to police, the injured has been identified as Manjibai (45). The leopard attacked the woman in the wee hours when she was asleep in front of her house. It bit her hand and took her to the backyard of the house. Her daughter-in-law noticed and screamed, after which the leopard fled, while a villager threw a stone at the big cat. Forest department officials visited the spot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/leopard-attacks-and-severely-injures-woman-992512.html
01-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Yediyurappa is CM now, don’t know about future: Ravi||BJP general secretary C T Ravi on Tuesday said, “B S Yediyurappa is the Chief Minister now. There is no confusion over this. But, I don’t know what the future holds.” Addressing media persons here, Ravi said that he is not aware of Vijayendra’s purpose of visit to Delhi. “He might have gone for personal reasons, as there are no party meetings held in Delhi. There is a meeting of general secretaries on June 5 and 6 and I will be attending,” he said. “The party has been taking decisions based on the situations and interests of the state. Yediyurappa has been made the CM with the same intention,” he said. To a query on Siddaramaiah’s statement that seven years of Modi have taken the country back by 70 years, Ravi criticised, “Has Siddaramaiah lost the power of thinking? The UPA government had recommended loans for the industrialists who cheated the banks. Only the slaves have political future in Congress. When Siddaramaiah was the CM, he availed loans and filled the ATM of Congress high command,” he criticised. “The Congress is creating a drama on the pretext of releasing Rs 100 crore for Covid management from MLAs fund, Ravi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/yediyurappa-is-cm-now-don-t-know-about-future-ravi-992623.html
01-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Manpower shortage, a challenge for expanding services at hospitals||With Covid cases still on the rise, the district administration and the authorities are planning to expand the services at the hospitals and also implement unique initiatives to contain the spread. However, they are in need of manpower and volunteers, which has become a bigger challenge. The Covid healthcare unit at Princess Krishnajammanni Super-Speciality Hospital, running on a Public-Private-Partnership (PPP) model, is being expanded with the like-minded people joining hands with the district administration.  The first PPP venture has the Mysore Medical College and Research Institute, joining hands with the private companies. While Automatic Axles-Kalyani Meritor HVS India (P) Ltd is sponsoring medical equipment, Ashakirana Charitable Trust and Gopala Gowda Shanthaveri Memorial Hospital are providing medical care facilities, manpower and also overall management of the healthcare unit. There are also plans to upgrade the 250-bed district hospital to 800-bed hospital. But, there is a requirement for manpower, according to sources in Health Department. Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri also stressed on the need for volunteer participation for combating the pandemic. Expressing gratitude to the volunteer groups, Citizen's forum of Mysuru, NCC, Rotary and others who have joined hands with the district administration in Covid Mitras, war room, telemedicine and other fields, the DC also sought further support from the volunteers and civil society on concentrating on the focus areas to make Mysuru Covid-free. The DC has stated that special focus on women is required in Covid management. The MCC shall identify constituency and ward-wise Covid Care Centres and volunteer participation is sought in this respect, she said. Speaking to DH, Varun Gururaja, the CEO of the venture between Asha Kirana and Gopala Gowda Hospital, said, "The Covid unit at Krishnajammanni hospital was being expanded ward by ward, ensuring there are sufficient medical equipment and facilities. There is definitely shortage of manpower, which has become a big challenge." "We need more people for the posts of nurses, Group 'D' employees and other medical staff. We encourage more and more youngsters to come forward for service as the entire hospital can accommodate 500 beds. The fear and stigma of Covid has kept the youngsters away. However, the expansion of the hospital depends on the available manpower and equipment," he said. We started the venture with the intention of serving the people. All trustees, Covid warriors are working day and night. The people here all hand picked staff. No other hospital in Mysuru have nurses conversing with the Covid patients, instilling confidence among them. Besides, a two-hour session is held with the attenders by the duty doctors and the specialists.  "The facility here was started on May 20 with 30 beds, with 18 patients, after recruitment and orientation of more than 100 healthcare workers and volunteers. Within 24 hours, we roped in 10 MBBS doctors, five specialists, five PG students, 50 nursing, 40 Group 'D' staff," Gururaja explained. "The empty building was converted into a 80-bed Covid facility in less than one week with the help of the district administration and Mysore Medical College and Research Institute, for treating the public for no cost. The facility has to be expanded and there is a requirement for more manpower," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/manpower-shortage-a-challenge-for-expanding-services-at-hospitals-992625.html
01-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||MP inspects site for DRDO oxygen plant at K R Hospital||MP Pratap Simha on Tuesday visited the K R Hospital and inspected the spot identified by the authorities, where the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) is planning to install a Pressure Swing Absorption (PSA) Medical Oxygen Generator Plant in Mysuru. As per the recommendations of the Union Health Ministry, the DRDO is installing a 1,000 Litre Per Minute (LPM), capacity oxygen unit on the premises of the K R Hospital. The plant costing more than Rs 1 crore will come up on a 30x40 ft dimension site near the Covid ward in the hospital. Speaking on the occasion, Pratap Simha said, “The plant will generate 1,000 litres oxygen per minute and there will be no shortage of oxygen. The unit will come up at the K R Hospital, which is the lifeline for the people of Mysuru. The hospital has been accommodating 500 to 600 patients, hence it was identified for the plant.” “The National Highway Authority of India, which has been executing the 10-lane Mysuru-Bengaluru Highway has been given the responsibility of installing the plant. Sridhar, who has been given the responsibility of 10-lane works, visited the spot and approved it. There is a need for a separate power line and arrangements are being made. The plant will start soon and is expected to be completed by the end of June,” the MP said. There is a need for such mini plants at the taluk centres also. We have appealed to the Union and the state governments in this regard. The plants will come up at taluks soon, he assured. Reacting to the lockdown extension, the MP said, “The government has the responsibility of protecting the lives and future of the people. If the lockdown continues, it will affect hundreds of people. It is the time for the farmers to get into agricultural activities and it is inevitable for them to come out for agriculture related works. Further lockdown will affect the people, who are already suffering.” Such Pressure Swing Absorption plants are also being installed in Bengaluru, Hassan, Mangaluru, Karwar and Belagavi. Mysuru Medical College Dean Dr C P Nanjaraj Urs and K R Hospital medical officers were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mp-inspects-site-for-drdo-oxygen-plant-at-k-r-hospital-992628.html
01-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka's Covid-19 lockdown should be extended up to June 30: Revanna||MLA H D Revanna suggested the state government to extend the lockdown till June 30, as the number of Covid-19 positive cases is yet to come under control, in the state. Addressing media persons here, Revanna said, “The state government has failed miserably in containing the Covid-19 second wave and around 25,000 people have lost their lives. The government has not been providing the exact number of Covid deaths.” According to the Health Department, around 1,000 people have lost lives to Covid in Hassan district, till date. But, around 1,000 deaths have not been disclosed and included in the count. The lockdown should not be relaxed till the positivity rate comes below 5%, be opined. The authorities concerned should decide on reopening the schools and colleges after considering the situation post-July. Besides, the SSLC and PUC exams should be postponed. The ministers should not issue statements on the lockdown relaxations and concentrate on the health of the common people, he suggested. Private hospitals should provide free treatment to the poor or the government should bear at least give 50% of their medical expenses. Repeated appeal to the chief minister in this regard has turned futile, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnatakas-covid-19-lockdown-should-be-extended-up-to-june-30-revanna-992631.html
01-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Vivek Murthy donates medical equipment worth Rs 1.41 cr||Dr Vivek Murthy, Surgeon General of the United States and his family members have donated medical equipment worth Rs 1.41 crore to Mandya and Kodagu districts, under Society of Children of Planet Earth (SCOPE). Dr Vivek Murthy, a native of Hallagere in Mandya taluk and his father Dr H L Lakshmi Narasimhamurthy established SCOPE for social activities. They have been donating study materials for the schools in the district since the last five years. When the state is reeling under Covid crisis, they have sent medical equipment worth Rs 74 lakh and Rs 67 lakh to Mandya and Kodagu districts respectively. They have dispatched N95 masks worth Rs 1.96 lakh, 70 oxygen concentrators, 70 medical transformers, 5,000 face shields, 300 surgical masks, 400 gloves, 25 thermometers, 10,000 wipes, 25 pulse oximeter, 50 oxygen tubes and others. Dr Vivek Murthy family have decided to construct a separate ward at a cost of Rs 1 crore on the premises of Mandya district hospital, according to one of their relatives H K Vasanth Kumar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/vivek-murthy-donates-medical-equipment-worth-rs-141-cr-992632.html
01-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Youths booked for violating Covid-19 guidelines||The police registered a case against eight people for visiting the KRS backwaters in Srirangapatna taluk, Mandya district, on Tuesday morning. It is alleged that four youths and four young women had visited the KRS backwaters violating the lockdown norms and crossing the inter-district borders. They were arrested based on the complaint lodged by Inspector S P Swamy of Karnataka Industrial Security Force. The youths are said to be from K R Nagar and Mysuru. They have been booked under Disaster Management Act-2005 and Karnataka Excise Act -1965 for trespassing, alcohol consumption and not wearing masks. Two cars have been seized, according to SI Ravikiran of KRS police station. According to the police, they have not been produced before the court due to Covid situation. They have been released under station bail after getting an undertaking.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/youths-booked-for-violating-covid-19-guidelines-992636.html
01-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||Projected as villain for airing personal opinion: Yogeshwar||Tourism Minister C P Yogeshwar has said that he had been projected as a villain for expressing his "personal opinion" on the state government. Yogeshwar courted controversy for his public outburst against Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and the BJP government in the state. He had said it was a government of three parties in the state. Several leaders of the party had sought action against him. However, the minister, who visited Suttur Mutt in the city on Tuesday, said that he was hurt by the statements made by his "friends."  "I shared my pain with the seer. I feel lighter now. I will not speak politics at religious places," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/projected-as-villain-for-airing-personal-opinion-yogeshwar-992619.html
01-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||Won’t speak about 'power beggars', says Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar on Tuesday said he will not speak about "power beggars", a term he used when asked about the tussle between Tourism Minister C P Yogeshwar and BJP vice-president B Y Vijayendra. Shivakumar was mostly referring to Yogeshwar.  "Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has taken into his fold people who have hopped from one party to another, landing in the BJP. Let Yediyurappa suffer," Shivakumar said of Yogeshwar. "Let Yediyurappa face the heat for his mistake. Even we made the same mistake and had to bear the brunt," he added.  It was Yediyurappa's doing that resulted in Yogeshwar saying the current government was a "three-party" government, Shivakumar said. "Let them go to Delhi or Andaman. For us, saving lives and fighting for the poor are priorities," he said.  Shivakumar urged the government to directly purchase flowers, fruits and vegetables from farmers. "Farmers are selling chilli for Rs 1-2 as against Rs 40-50 before. Some farmers are using their own crops as fertilisers. They are allowed to sell their crops only for two hours. The state of farmers in north Karnataka is horrible," he said.  Mocking the government's policy, Shivakumar pointed out that liquor stores could sell alcohol till 10 am whereas farmers have to wind up at 8 am. He also criticised the government's relief package of Rs 1,250 crore, calling it "a reel package".||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/won-t-speak-about-power-beggars-says-karnataka-congress-president-d-k-shivakumar-992622.html
01-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka Congress tie-up with campaign firm leads to faction row||Mohali-based political campaign management firm DesignBoxed has been roped in to help the Karnataka Congress set the stage for the 2023 Assembly polls, but this has exposed leadership fissures within the party that is eyeing power two years from now.  Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D K Shivakumar has green-lit the onboarding of DesignBoxed, founded by-poll consultant Naresh Arora. The company has started work on projecting the Congress as “a party that’s doing some work” during the Covid-19 pandemic. This includes the #LetCongressVaccinate and #Congress100CrorePlan campaigns. However, discontent is fermenting as legislators who identify with Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah say the party’s current campaigns are Shivakumar-centric. They see this as Shivakumar’s attempt to brand himself as the chief ministerial candidate. This is an extension of Siddaramaiah’s apparent game of one-upmanship with Shivakumar - both contenders for the chief minister’s office if the Congress wins the next election.  “If you hire a company to help the party’s image, you can’t project only one individual. It’s not right. Many are unhappy with the way things are going,” a legislator seen as pro-Siddaramaiah told DH requesting anonymity.  Choosing between Shivakumar and Siddaramaiah for the CM’s post, should the party come to power, is a contentious issue within Congress.  Last week, the Karnataka Congress’ official Twitter handle tweeted that the Covid-19 pandemic would have been under control if Shivakumar was the CM. The tweet was deleted, but not before ticking off the Siddaramaiah camp. According to one source, this tweet was put out by a “someone in the party” and not DesignBoxed. “One hundred tweets went out in five minutes using the software. We traced the person who did this,” the source said. When contacted, Arora told DH that his company did not operate the party’s Twitter handle. DesignBoxed has worked with Congress since 2016 in six other states - Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Chattisgarh, Rajasthan and Assam. Karnataka is their seventh state and the first in south India in terms of a full-fledged assignment. DH had reported in November 2020 that Shivakumar was in talks with this company.  A message viral on social media talks of a “big storm brewing” in Congress over this issue. “Siddaramaiah and Shivakumar should know where they stand. Them taking on each other will only hurt the party,” the MLA quoted above said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-congress-tie-up-with-campaign-firm-leads-to-faction-row-992624.html
01-06-2021||Main Article||India needs its own Joe Biden||The Narendra Modi-led BJP government has completed seven years in office. The landscape of India’s political economy has witnessed an almost meteoric transformation during these years, if one could see it from the singular perspective of a ruling party’s own growth to power. In these seven years, the BJP has consolidated itself as a political force across most Indian states— winning one state election after another, from UP in the North to Assam in the North-East, emerging as one of the most dominant national parties under the Narendra Modi-Amit Shah’s duopoly. The Indian economy has during these years, however, tanked to the worst performance levels observed since 1991, and in some ways since Independence, especially since the Covid-19 pandemic lockdown. The government’s dreadful handling of the surging pandemic, the increasing centralisation of economic power, and continued ad hoc decision-making offer little hope for any chance of a robust economic recovery at least until the next general elections in 2024.  Even before the pandemic, India’s youth unemployment rate had touched 23% in 2019. Its annual GDP performance crashed to -8.0% in 2020-21, the worst amongst all developing nations (Bangladesh grew at 3.8% in 2020), and on Covid-19 fatality per million population, India stands now at 212 (as per May 21). For a nation that has been for years one of the world’s biggest vaccine producers and which was till seven years ago amongst the fastest growing economies, these economic growth and pandemic numbers are shocking. But it isn’t just the economy that has been the worst casualty of the seven-year-old Modi regime. The state of Indian democracy and its public institutions, from being put into a state of ‘quarantine’ during Modi’s first term (2014-2019), now seem to have entered a state of ‘lockdown’, as seen during his second term.   A pandemic’s presence has been insidiously used by the current administration to delegitimise India’s parliamentary due process. Standing Committees of Parliament, which exist to analyse the functioning of the government in a non-partisan manner, haven’t met since the pandemic began.  Even when Parliament has functioned, railroading of bills without adequate review, discussion or parliamentary scrutiny has now been standardised as every public institution seems decapacitated by their subjugation and the blatant disregard for constitutional values and institutional autonomy. Institutional credibility and public confidence in organisations like the CBI, the Election Commission and even the Supreme Court has hardly ever been eroded to the extent one sees now, further widening the State-citizen trust deficit. Besides, not since the time of Indira Gandhi’s Emergency have so many people— social activists, human rights champions, political dissenters, environmentalists— been jailed or subjected to police action and harassment for political reasons than in the last few years. It appears as if a new ‘State-citizen compact’ has been put in place where a culture of ‘institutive impunity’ is both practised and preached with the support of the police and the approval of an apathetic State, using this across the nation to entice mobs and rioters to seed communal hatred and social distrust. With such reflections on these seven years, it is difficult to be hopeful for India’s democracy and the wellbeing of its citizenry going forward. Still, if one tried hard to find a ray of hope, one can perhaps look closely at the recent case of the US. After four years of President Trump, during which the US saw a serious democratic backslide in its own governance systems and institutions, and as Trumpian ‘populism’ went about altering the ‘moral’ order by which America governed itself and projected itself to the world, Joe Biden’s electoral victory has helped restore America’s ‘dented image’ somewhat. Once perceived as a moderate incrementalist, Biden has gone beyond his own political-ideological dispositions to promote big legislative packages that make many on the progressive left happy. He strongly believes that in a post-Trump world, America is fighting not just to “preserve its middle-class” (through better jobs, higher wages, more affordable healthcare and social security), but to “survive as the leading nation of the world.” As David Brooks, after interviewing Joe Biden, recently wrote: “Some people get their worldviews from ideological constructs or philosophical movements like ‘conservatism’ or ‘progressivism’. Biden derives his worldview from lived experience, especially the world of his youth, and how his parents taught him to see that world. It created the moral underpinnings of the big legislative packages he is proposing.” India is perhaps at an inflection point itself, like America was, where it desperately needs to find its ‘Joe Biden’. Someone who can go beyond ‘ideological constructs’ to use her/his ‘lived experience’ — and that of the people— as a guiding force to lead the nation’s citizenry to “build back better.” What matters is not only how a leader perceives an issue, but also where (s)he sees it from. In Biden’s case, he sees most issues that plague America from the perspective and lens of the ‘common man’, ‘the lower-middle-income class’ he grew up around. More notably, an intense focus on ‘human dignity’ in his governing philosophy makes him a rare national leader in a time when ‘dignity’ and human rights-based political discourse is in scarce supply among those helming nations. Even in the handling of the pandemic, since Biden came to office, the US has done well to provide more stimulus, relief to its people, and more decisively mass-vaccinate its population. Seven years of Modi-Shah rule in India has created a gaping hole in the nation’s social and economic landscape. People’s faith in the functioning of the nation-state— and its capacity to improve their lives — has soured. A pandemic wreaked havoc and destroyed the lives and livelihoods of millions, and so many more are likely to be affected in the weeks and months to come. In such a time, a quest to find a ‘progressive’ voice in the political opposition— who can help restore people’s confidence in the State, help invest in improving our social and economic capital, and be rooted to work for the wellbeing of the working and middle classes— is warranted. (The writer is Director, Centre for New Economic Studies, O P Jindal Global University)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/india-needs-its-own-joe-biden-992306.html
01-06-2021||National||Mahesh Jethmalani nominated to Rajya Sabha||Noted lawyer Mahesh Jethmalani on Sunday said he has been nominated to Rajya Sabha. "I have been intimated about my nomination to Rajya Sabha," Jethmalani told PTI. His father Ram Jethmalani, a renowned lawyer who fought several high-profile cases, was also a Rajya Sabha member. Mahesh Jethmalani's nomination came days after two seats in the nominated category became vacant -- Swapan Dasgupta resigned from the upper house in March this year after the BJP fielded him as a candidate in the West Bengal assembly elections and Raghunath Mohapatra succumbed to COVID-19 earlier this month. The President, on advice of the Centre, can nominate 12 members to Rajya Sabha. The nominated members are drawn from fields such as literature, science, sports, art, and social service.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mahesh-jethmalani-nominated-to-rajya-sabha-992334.html
01-06-2021||National||WHO names Covid-19 variants first found in India 'Kappa' and 'Delta'||The B.1.617.1 and B.1.617.2 variants of Covid-19, first identified in India, have been named as 'Kappa' and 'Delta' respectively, the World Health Organization (WHO) announced on Monday as it named various variants of the novel coronavirus using Greek alphabets. "Today, @WHO announces new, easy-to-say labels for #SARSCoV2 Variants of Concern (VOCs) & Interest (VOIs). They will not replace existing scientific names, but are aimed to help in public discussion of VOI/VOC," Dr Maria Van Kerkhove, WHO's technical Covid-19 lead, tweeted on Monday.  They will not replace existing scientific names, but are aimed to help in public discussion of VOI/VOC The UN health agency named the B.1.617.1 variant of the Covid-19 as 'Kappa' while the B1.617.2 variant was dubbed 'Delta.' Both the variants were first found in India. The WHO's move came nearly three weeks after India objected to the B.1.617 mutant of the novel coronavirus being termed an "Indian Variant" in media reports with the Union Health Ministry pointing out that the UN's top health organ has not used the word "Indian" for this strain in its document. On May 12, the ministry dismissed as "without any basis and unfounded" media reports that have used the term "Indian variant" for the B.1.617 mutant strain, which the WHO recently said was a "variant of global concern".  "Several media reports have covered the news of the WHO classifying B.1.617 as a variant of global concern. Some of these reports have termed the B.1.617 variant of the coronavirus as an 'Indian Variant'," the ministry said in a statement in New Delhi. "These media reports are without any basis, and unfounded," it said. In a statement, the UN health agency said on Monday that an expert group convened by WHO has recommended labeling using letters of the Greek Alphabet, i.e., Alpha, Beta, Gamma, which will be easier and more practical to discuss by non-scientific audiences.  "The established nomenclature systems for naming and tracking SARS-CoV-2 genetic lineages by GISAID, Nextstrain and Pango are currently and will remain in use by scientists and in scientific research,” the WHO said. It said the WHO and its international networks of experts were monitoring changes to the virus. "If significant mutations are identified, we can inform countries and the public about any changes needed to react to the variant, and prevent its spread,” the WHO said. "Globally, systems have been established and are being strengthened to detect 'signals' of potential VOCs and VOIs and assess these based on the risk posed to global public health," it added. "National authorities may choose to designate other variants of local interest/concern."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/who-names-covid-19-variants-first-found-in-india-kappa-and-delta-992336.html
01-06-2021||National||DH Toon | India to ramp up Covid-19 vaccine drive||Daily coronavirus recoveries continued to outnumber the new positive cases for the 18th consecutive day on Monday, with the second wave of the pandemic showing a declining trend.  According to the health ministry, the case positivity rate too remained below 10 per cent for seven consecutive days and had settled at 9.07 per cent on Monday, while the recovery rate remained above 91 per cent for five successive days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-india-to-ramp-up-covid-19-vaccine-drive-992338.html
01-06-2021||National||Coronavirus India Tracker: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on June 1||India reported 1,27,510 fresh Covid-19 infections in the past 24 hours. 34,67,92,257 samples were tested for Covid-19 up to May 31. Daily Covid count in India today was the lowest in 54 days.  Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  28,172,687 as of June 1, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  3,31,895  as of June 1, 2021 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> No. of people discharged: 2,59,47,629  Total Vaccination: 21,60,46,638  Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-tracker-state-wise-covid-19-cases-deaths-on-june-1-992339.html
01-06-2021||National||TV actor Karan Mehra held for beating up wife in Mumbai||Popular television actor Karan Mehra was arrested for allegedly beating up his wife at their residence in Mumbai, a police official said on Tuesday. The incident took place on Monday night following which the actor was taken into custody. He was released on bail from the police station in the early hours of Tuesday, the official said. The Goregaon police received a call from their control room about the incidentaround 11 pm on Monday, he said. The police went to the actor's house and brought him to the police station. His wife Nisha Rawal, who is also a TV actor, lodged a police complaint against him after they had a fight, the official said. A case was registered against Mehra under IPC sections 336 (endangering human life or personal safety others), 337 (causing hurt by an act which endangers human life), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation), he said. After the completion of legal formalities, the actor was released on bail from the police station, he said. Mehra is known for his role in the TV serial Yeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hai. The couple has appeared in various TV serials, including dance reality show Nach Baliye.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tv-actor-karan-mehra-held-for-beating-up-wife-in-mumbai-992368.html
01-06-2021||National||India records 2,795 single-day Covid fatalities, lowest in over a month; 1.27L new infections||India reported 1,27,510 fresh Covid-19 cases, the lowest in 54 days, while the daily positivity rate dropped to 6.62 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The Covid-19 death toll climbed to 3,31,895 with 2,795 fresh fatalities, the lowest reported in 35 days, and the active cases were recorded below 20 lakh after 43 days, the data updated at 8 am showed.   With the fresh cases, India's tally of coronavirus cases rose to 2,81,75,044.    Also, 19,25,374 tests were conducted on Monday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 34,67,92,257. The daily positivity was recorded at 6.62 per cent . It has been less than 10 per cent for eight consecutive days, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate has declined to 8.64 per cent.   The active cases recorded were below 20 lakh after 43 days. They have reduced to 18,95,520 comprising 6.73 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 92.09 per cent.    A net decline of 1,30,572 cases has been recorded in the Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for 19 successive days. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,59,47,629, while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.18 per cent, the data stated.    India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on  November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. The 2,795 new fatalities include 500 from Maharashtra, 478 from Tamil Nadu, 411 from Karnataka, 174 from Kerala, 151 from Uttar Pradesh, 131 from West Bengal, and 118 from Punjab. A total of  3,31,895 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 95,344 from Maharashtra, 29,090 from Karnataka, 24,237 from Delhi, 24,232 from Tamil Nadu, 20,497 from Uttar Pradesh, 15,541 from West Bengal, 14,550 from Punjab and 13,048 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-records-2795-single-day-covid-fatalities-lowest-in-over-a-month-127l-new-infections-992370.html
01-06-2021||National||Govt permits supply of liquid oxygen to certain industries, projects on temporary basis||With the number of coronavirus cases coming down, the government has permitted oxygen manufacturing units to supply oxygen to certain industries such as MSMEs, food processing plants and infrastructure projects, on temporary basis. This supply, however, would be subjected to ensuring adequate supply of liquid medical oxygen to hospitals and other medical purposes as per demands of states/UTs as well as adequate supply to industries/sectors such as ampules and vials, pharmaceuticals, manufacturing of oxygen cylinders and PSA plants, neutral glass tubing and defence forces. In April, the centre banned the supply of oxygen for industrial purposes except in nine specified industries in view of shortage of the essential public health commodity in several states amid a spike in Covid-19 infections. The Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT), under the commerce and industry ministry, has proposed the home ministry for resuming the supply of oxygen to the industries other than the industries exempted by the home ministry. The department has asked for the supply to furnaces, refineries, steel, aluminium, copper processing plants; infrastructure projects and plants; MSMEs, exporters of manufacturing sector requiring oxygen for production; and food processing units. "In this regard, DPIIT may allow usage of liquid oxygen" to these "industries/projects/units on temporary basis," according to an office memorandum of the home ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-permits-supply-of-liquid-oxygen-to-certain-industries-projects-on-temporary-basis-992397.html
01-06-2021||National||States, UTs have stock of more than 1.57 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses: Centre||More than 1.57 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with states and UTs to be administered, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. The Centre has so far provided, both through the free of cost and through direct state procurement categories, more than 23 crore vaccine doses to states and UTs. Of this, the total consumption, including wastages, is 21,51,48,659 doses, the ministry said. "More than 1.57 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses (1,57,74,331) are still available with the states and UTs to be administered," it said. As part of the nationwide vaccination drive, the Centre has been supporting the States and UTs by providing them vaccines free of cost. In addition, it has also been facilitating direct procurement of vaccines by the states and UTs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-uts-have-stock-of-more-than-157-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-centre-992402.html
01-06-2021||National||Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank admitted to AIIMS with post-Covid complications||Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank on Tuesday was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) for treatment of post-Covid complications. According to officials, the minister complained of breathing problems and his oxygen saturation levels were on the lower side. The minister’s office said Nishank’s condition was stable. Sixty-one-year-old Nishank had contracted Covid-19 on April 21, and recovered from the disease. He had been actively discharging his official duties for the past several weeks and chaired meetings on the implementation of the National Education Policy and participated in the deliberations on the conduct of the Class 12 CBSE exams. The Education Ministry is scheduled to make an announcement on the conduct of the Class 12 CBSE exams anytime now. It had told the Supreme Court that the ministry would apprise it of the decision on Class 12 examinations on June 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ramesh-pokhriyal-nishank-admitted-to-aiims-with-post-covid-complications-992403.html
01-06-2021||National||Covid-19: Eli Lilly gets nod for emergency use in India for antibody drug combination||Eli Lilly and Co's antibody drug combination has received an emergency use approval in India for the treatment of mild-to-moderate Covid-19, bolstering the country's arsenal of medicines to tackle a devastating second wave of the pandemic. A combination of the US drugmaker's monoclonal antibodies bamlanivimab and etesevimab has been given approval for restricted use in emergency situations in hospital settings in adults, the company's Indian unit said in an emailed statement. Monoclonal antibodies mimic natural antibodies that the body generates to fight infection. The company said it is in talks with the government and regulatory authorities to donate the drugs to help speed up access and provide more treatment options for Covid-19. A similar antibody cocktail developed by Regeneron and Roche in May received emergency use approval in India. Lilly's arthritis drug baricitinib in combination with remdesivir has already received restricted emergency use approval in India for the treatment of hospitalised Covid-19 adult patients requiring supplemental oxygen. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-eli-lilly-gets-nod-for-emergency-use-in-india-for-antibody-drug-combination-992407.html
01-06-2021||National||Antigua PM denies links to Mehul Choksi's alleged abduction||Amid the growing furore over the arrest and repatriation of Mehul Choksi, Antigua and Barbuda Prime Minister Gaston Browne has denied his or his government's involvement in the alleged abduction of the fugitive diamantaire. Choksi, after he was reported missing last week, was detained in Dominica for "illegal entry." “Let me state here that even though Choksi’s citizenship was unsettled, we respected his legal and constitutional rights as a citizen, and we did nothing to abridge those rights whist he was on Antiguan and Barbudan soil,” an Antigua Newsroom report quoter Browne as saying.  He said that if his country was desperate to get rid of the merchant, then he would have directly sought India's intervention. Choksi was hospitalised in Dominica following a health complaint. Choksi and his nephew Nirav Modi are wanted for allegedly siphoning Rs 13,500 crore of public money from the state-run Punjab National Bank (PNB) using letters of undertaking. Both are facing a CBI and ED probe. While Modi is in a London prison after being repeatedly denied bail and is contesting his extradition to India, Choksi took citizenship of Antigua and Barbuda in 2017 before fleeing India in the first week of January 2018. The diamantaire had taken the citizenship of Antigua and Barbuda in 2017 using its Citizenship by Investment programme. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/antigua-pm-denies-links-to-mehul-choksis-alleged-abduction-992413.html
01-06-2021||National||Delhi HC quashes Air India's decision terminating pilots, orders reinstatement||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday come to the rescue of all Air India pilots, including the contractual ones, whose services were terminated by the national carrier last year. It quashed the decision and directed their reinstatement with back wages. Justice Jyoti Singh passed the order in over 40 petitions by pilots whose services were terminated by Air India on August 13 last year. The court ordered the Air India that back wages would have to be paid to the reinstated pilots. However, the extension of contract, in the future, of the contractual pilots would be at the discretion of Air India in view of their satisfactory performance, it added. The court said the detailed judgement would be available only on Wednesday. In a sudden a decision that has created furore within the national carrier, Air India had on August 13, 2020 sacked 48 pilots who resigned last year but withdrew their resignations within the six months notice period time as per rules. The pilots were employed in flying the Airbus 320 fleet of the airline. The Air India had then cited financial constraints and the impact of Covid-19 on the commercial functioning of the company for the decision taken.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-quashes-air-indias-decision-terminating-pilots-orders-reinstatement-992417.html
01-06-2021||National||Petrol, diesel prices hiked again, rates at new high||Petrol and diesel prices on Tuesday scaled new highs across the country after they were hiked for the 17th time in a month. Petrol price was increased by 26 paise per litre and diesel by 23 paise a litre, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. In Delhi, petrol hit an all-time high of Rs 94.49 a litre, while diesel is priced at Rs 85.38 per litre. Fuel prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes such as VAT and freight charges. Rajasthan levies the highest value-added tax (VAT) on petrol in the country, followed by Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. The price of petrol, which had already crossed the Rs 100-mark in several cities in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra, breached the psychological barrier in Mumbai on Saturday. Tuesday's price increase was the second since then. Petrol now costs Rs 100.72 a litre in Mumbai and diesel comes for Rs 92.69 per litre. The increase on Tuesday is the 17th increase in prices since May 4, when state-owned oil firms ended an 18-day hiatus in rate revision they observed during assembly elections in states like West Bengal. In 17 increases, petrol price has risen by Rs 4.09 per litre and diesel by Rs 4.65 a litre. Oil companies revise rates of petrol and diesel daily based on the average price of benchmark fuel in the international market in the preceding 15-days, and foreign exchange rates. Brent crude oil - the most widely used international benchmark - has risen 36 per cent this year to more than USD 70 a barrel. This has prompted an increase in retail fuel prices. Rates are at the highest in the country in Sri Ganganagar district of Rajasthan where petrol comes for Rs 105.52 a litre and diesel for Rs 98.32 per litre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petrol-diesel-prices-hiked-again-rates-at-new-high-992420.html
01-06-2021||National||Monsoon likely to be normal in north and south, above-normal in central India, says IMD||The Southwest Monsoon is likely to be normal in north and south India, above-normal in central India and below-normal in east and northeast India, the MeT department said on Tuesday. Releasing its Second Long Range Forecast for Southwest Monsoon 2021, India Meteorological Department (IMD) Director General Mrutunjay Mohapatra said that the monsoon this year is likely to be normal in the country as a whole. It is likely to be in the range of 96-104 per cent of the Long Period Average (LPA), Mohapatra said. "Southwest Monsoon seasonal (June to September) rainfall over the country as a whole is most likely to be normal (96 to 104 per cent of Long Period Average (LPA). "Quantitatively, the monsoon seasonal (June to September) rainfall over the country as a whole is likely to be 101 per cent of the Long Period Average (LPA) with a model error of plus or minus 4 per cent," he said. The LPA of the season rainfall over the country as a whole for the period 1961-2010 is 88 cm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/monsoon-likely-to-be-normal-in-north-and-south-above-normal-in-central-india-says-imd-992422.html
01-06-2021||National||UK's Heathrow Airport opens new terminal for 'red list' countries like India||London's busy Heathrow Airport opened a dedicated new terminal on Tuesday for arrivals from countries designated as "red list", such as India, for a higher risk of Covid-19 transmission. Travellers on direct flights from such destinations will now go through Terminal 3 and then move directly to a government-approved quarantine facility booked at the passengers' own expense. It comes after the London airport’s staff had raised fears for their safety because of overcrowding, amid concerns that travellers arriving from red list countries – from where travel is effectively banned except for British and Irish nationals or limited exceptions – were mixing with those from green and amber. "Red list routes will likely be a feature of UK travel for the foreseeable future as countries vaccinate their populations at different rates,” a Heathrow Airport spokesperson said. "We're adapting Heathrow to this longer-term reality by initially opening a dedicated arrivals facility in Terminal 3 from 1 June for red list passengers arriving on direct flights. While opening this facility will be logistically very challenging, our hope is that it will enable Border Force to carry out its duties more efficiently as passenger volumes increase in line with the green list. Until then, the current red list system will remain in place,” the spokesperson said. Currently, there are 43 countries on the UK government's red list to cover regions linked with high-risk Covid-19 variants such as India, Brazil and South Africa. Under the UK government's coronavirus rules, anyone who has been in a red list country is required to pay for hotel quarantine for 10 nights after their arrival. According to officials, the latest system has been designed with several layers of Covid-19 security, including mandatory negative Covid-19 tests for all international arrivals, mandatory use of face coverings, social distancing, segregation and enhanced cleaning regimes and ventilation in immigration halls. "We will move this facility to Terminal 4 as soon as operationally possible," the Heathrow spokesperson said. A UK government spokesperson said the enhanced borders regime was to reduce the risk of new variants being transmitted. "As we reopen international travel safely, we will maintain 100 per cent health checks at the border and the new dedicated terminal at Heathrow for arrivals from red list countries will enable passengers to be processed as safely and as efficiently as possible, before being transferred to a managed quarantine facility," the spokesperson said. The move comes as the UK coronavirus cases exceeded 3,000 on Monday for a sixth day in a row, with this figure not having been surpassed since April 12. The highly transmissible B1.617.2 variant, first identified in India and now named 'Delta' by the World Health Organisation, is believed to be largely behind this spike in infections with scientists advising caution before all Covid-19 lockdown restrictions are completely lifted as planned for June 21. The coronavirus has killed 128,045 people in the UK, along with 45,03,231 confirmed cases so far, according to Johns Hopkins University.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uks-heathrow-airport-opens-new-terminal-for-red-list-countries-like-india-992430.html
01-06-2021||National||IED attacks new modus-operandi of militants in Kashmir||As militants in Kashmir are increasingly trying to target security forces with improvised explosive devices (IEDs), police and other agencies are effectively dealing to thwart their attempts. In May, J&K police and the army averted three major tragedies when they detected and destroyed three IEDs in south Kashmir's Pulwama district. While two IEDs were detected on May 31, one was detected on May 15. Prior to that, security forces averted another big tragedy when they detected an IED near the railway crossing in Nowgam area of central Kashmir's Budgam district on the Srinagar-Jammu national highway on February 22. Earlier on February 14, a seven-kg IED was detected and defused near the crowded general bus stand area in Jammu city. On February 16, militants detonated an IED, hidden in a dumper, by a remote-controlled device in the Pazalpora area of Bijbehara in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district. However, no one was injured in the blast. On January 27, a soldier was killed and three others were injured in an IED explosion in neighboring Kulgam district. Sources said these incidents have forced the police and other security agencies to work out a strategy to deal with IED blasts. “There is a possibility of more IED attacks in coming months as local recruitment into militancy continues. Using IEDs to target security forces is a low cost affair for the militant organisations,” they said. Deputy Inspector General of Police, South Kashmir Abdul Jabbar said militants are planning new attacks by planting landmines (IEDs) at various locations. “But the police have been successful in foiling these attempts with the help of intelligence reports. Police are always two steps ahead of the elements that are responsible for disturbing the peaceful atmosphere,” he told reporters. An army official said the militants change their modus operandi every year. “In 2020, they were attacking naka parties, and this year, they are relying more on IED attacks. The militant handlers across the border are desperate to boost the morale of their cadres and IED attacks have been the strategies to inflict more casualty on security forces and create news,” he said. “A few IED experts from across the border may have crossed over to Kashmir and joined the militants here to revitalise and use the deadly old technique of IED blasts,” the official revealed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ied-attacks-new-modus-operandi-of-militants-in-kashmir-992436.html
01-06-2021||National||Senior BJP leader Laxmikant Sharma dies of Covid-19||Senior BJP leader and former Madhya Pradesh minister Laxmikant Sharma died of coronavirus at a private hospital, family sources said on Tuesday. Sharma, 60, succumbed to the deadly infection at Chirayu Hospital and Medical College on Monday night, the hospital's director Dr Ajay Goenka said. The senior BJP leader is survived by his wife and three daughters, the family sources stated. Sharma's last rites were performed at Sironj, his ancestral town, in Vidisha district with full state honours on Tuesday, they said.  Sharma was elected as an MLA from Sironj Assembly seat for four terms in 1993, 1998, 2003 and 2008. The senior BJP leader had served as a minister in the cabinet of former chief ministers Uma Bharti and Babulal Gaur and also under the present Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, the party sources said. Sharma was embroiled in the Vyapam (admission and recruitment) scam, but was given a clean chit by the CBI in 2019, the sources added. Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan condoled Sharma's death in a tweet.  पूर्व मंत्री और वरिष्ठ नेता श्री लक्ष्मीकांत शर्मा जी के निधन की दुःखद सूचना मिली है। मैं ईश्वर से प्रार्थना करता हूँ कि वे दिवंगत आत्मा को शांति दें और उनके परिजनों को यह वज्राघात सहने की क्षमता दें। ।। ॐ शांति ।।||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/senior-bjp-leader-laxmikant-sharma-dies-of-covid-19-992449.html
01-06-2021||National||PM Modi to chair meeting on Class 12 Board exams on June 1||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will chair an important meeting regarding class 12 board exams on Tuesday evening. Government sources said he will be briefed on all possible options that have emerged following an extensive discussions with all states and other stakeholders. The CBSE had on April 14 announced cancellation of class 10 exams and postponement of class 12 exams in view of the surge in coronavirus cases. The Ministry of Education had recently sought detailed suggestions from the states and union territories till on the proposals discussed in a high-level meeting held on the issue. The government has informed the Supreme Court, which is hearing a plea seeking the exam's cancellation, it will take a final decision by June 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-chair-meeting-on-class-12-board-exams-on-june-1-992454.html
01-06-2021||National||Election Commission confident of holding 5 Assembly elections next year||The Election Commission of India is confident of holding five Assembly polls next year, including in Uttar Pradesh and Punjab, on time, CEC Sushil Chandra told PTI. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/election-commission-confident-of-holding-5-assembly-elections-next-year-992456.html
01-06-2021||National||Delhi Police suspends arms licences of Sushil Kumar, Navneet Kalra as they face probe||The Delhi Police has suspended the arms licences of wrestler Sushil Kumar and businessman Navneet Kalra as they face criminal cases, officials said on Tuesday. Their licences were suspended on Monday, they said, adding the police have moved to cancel them. Joint Commissioner of Police (Licensing) O P Mishra said, "We have suspended the arms licences of Kumar and Kalra with immediate effect. The process of cancellation of their licences has been initiated. They were served notices to explain why their licences should not be cancelled." "We have done it on the basis of reports of the concerned investigating agencies and local police in the criminal cases recently registered against them," Mishra said. Kumar and his associates allegedly assaulted wrestler Sagar Dhankar and two of his friends -- Sonu and Amit Kumar -- on the intervening night of May 4 and 5. Sagar succumbed to the injuries later. Police said a total of nine people, including Kumar, has been arrested so far in connection with the incident. Also, the Delhi Police arrested Kalra for alleged black marketing and hoarding of oxygen concentrators. Police recovered 524 oxygen concentrators were recovered from Khan Chacha, Town Hall and Nege & Ju restaurants owned by Kalra in the national capital. A Delhi court on Saturday granted bail to Kalra. The businessman was nabbed from Gurugram on May 16. He had been on the run since the police raided his restaurants and seized the medical devices. The police claimed that the concentrators were imported from China and were being sold at an exorbitant price of Rs 50,000 to 70,000 a piece as against its cost of Rs 16,000 to Rs 22,000.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-police-suspends-arms-licences-of-sushil-kumar-navneet-kalra-as-they-face-probe-992465.html
01-06-2021||National||30 lakh doses of Sputnik V reach Hyderabad from Russia||A consignment of about three million (30 lakh) doses of Sputnik V vaccine arrived at the Hyderabad airport on Tuesday morning. The freight of 56.6 tonne weight is stated by the GMR Hyderabad Air Cargo (GHAC) officials as the largest import shipment of Covid-19 vaccines handled in India to date. Dr Reddy's Laboratories, the custodian of the Russian made vaccine in India, has received the first consignment of 1.5 lakh doses on May 1. The Drug Controller General of India approved the restricted emergency use of Sputnik V in April, amid a severe shortage of the domestically manufactured Covishield and Covaxin vaccines. Speaking to DH, Dr Reddy's co-chairman and managing director GV Prasad had said that the Sputnik V imports will accelerate further after 15 June and that in September, “we will have quite a sizable number of Sputnik V doses available in the country.” The pharma major is in an agreement with the Russian Direct Investment Fund to supply 250 million imported doses in India (to fully vaccinate 125 million people) and also manage the domestic production and distribution to commence later this year. Following the regulatory clearance from the Central Drugs Laboratory, Kasauli, the very first dose of the Sputnik V vaccine was administered in the country on 14 May, as part of a pilot launch in Hyderabad. The imported vaccines are priced at about Rs 995 per dose (including a 5 % GST). DRL said there is a “possibility of a lower price point when local supply begins.” The Russian vaccine would be produced in India at six sites – Hetero Drugs, Virchow Biotech, Panacea Biotec, Gland Pharma, Stelis Biopharma, and Shilpa Biologicals. “The output from the six manufacturing units is meant to cater to both domestic demand and also global exports,” Prasad said. Shilpa Biologicals has reportedly targeted production of 50 million doses in the first 12 months from its Dharwad unit, while the Bengaluru located Stelis Biopharma would supply a minimum of 200 million doses. Hyderabad airport- Vaccine import hub Sputnik V consignment arrived on a specially chartered freighter from Russia in the wee hours of Tuesday. The shipment completed all the processes and was dispatched from the Hyderabad airport within 90 minutes. “According to DRL, the shipment contains three million vaccine doses,” a GMR official told DH. The Sputnik V vaccine needs specialised handling and storage at - 20° C temperature. “Major pharma companies based in and around Hyderabad are expected to produce or import over 3.5 billion doses of different varieties of Covid-19 vaccines over the next couple of years and we have been gearing up to handle the shipment surge,” GHAC, “the largest vaccine import hub for India,” said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/30-lakh-doses-of-sputnik-v-reach-hyderabad-from-russia-992469.html
01-06-2021||National||Gujarat govt to grant Centre of Excellence status to 7 varsities||The Gujarat government has decided to grant Centre of Excellence (CoE) status to seven private universities in the state, an official said on Tuesday. As per an official release, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Monday gave in-principle approval to grant seven universities the CoE status, so that they make their mark globally. The list includes Nirma University, CEPT University, Pandit Deendayal Energy University, Dhirubhai Ambani Institute of Information and Communication Technology (DAIICT), Ahmedabad University, Charotar University of Science and Technology and Marwadi University. The decision will improve the quality of education at these universities and give them an "international touch", Rupani said in a statement, adding that the move will also boost research, innovation and a culture for creating start-ups. A detailed action plan on how these universities can contribute internationally will be prepared soon, the release stated. Students will get quality infrastructure and facilities such as best faculties, laboratories, libraries and hostels, it said. State Education Minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama will hold a meeting with the heads of these seven universities within a week to prepare an action plan, which they will have to submit to the chief minister in two weeks, the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-govt-to-grant-centre-of-excellence-status-to-7-varsities-992473.html
01-06-2021||National||Government imposes restrictions on export of 'black fungus' drug Amphotericin B||The government on Tuesday imposed curbs on export of Amphotericin-B injections that are used for treatment of mucormycosis or 'black fungus' infections. According to a notification issued by the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT), export of the injections have been put in the restricted category. This means that an exporter would need permission or licence from the directorate for its outbound shipments. "The export of Amphotericin-B injections... is restricted, with immediate effect," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-imposes-restrictions-on-export-of-black-fungus-drug-amphotericin-b-992478.html
01-06-2021||National||Maggi-maker Nestle admits 60% of its food products not healthy: Report||Swiss FMCG major Nestle SA said it is looking across its entire portfolio to increase the nutrient profile of its products, following the company reportedly admitted that 60 per cent of the its mainstream food and drinks portfolio failed to meet a "recognised definition of health" and nutrition. Nestle is working on a company-wide project to update its nutrition and health strategy. It is looking at its entire portfolio to ensure that its products are helping meet their nutritional needs and supporting a balanced diet, a Nestlé SA spokesperson said. On Monday, Financial Times reported that the majority of Nestle's mainstream food and drinks portfolio failed to meet recognised standards of health and nutrition. "The world's largest food company, Nestlé, has acknowledged that more than 60 per cent of its mainstream food and drinks products do not meet a 'recognised definition of health' and that 'some of our categories and products will never be healthy’ no matter how much we renovate", the Financial Times report said quoting a Nestle document. A presentation circulated among top executives this year, seen by the Financial Times, said that only 37 per cent of Nestle's food and beverages by revenues, excluding products such as pet food and specialised medical nutrition, achieve a rating above 3.5 under Australia’s health star rating system. "Within its overall food and drink portfolio, about 70 per cent of Nestlé’s food products failed to meet that threshold, the presentation said, along with 96 per cent of beverages -- excluding pure coffee -- and 99 per cent of Nestlé’s confectionery and ice cream portfolio," the media report noted. While issuing a global statement, Nestle -- maker of KitKat, Maggi noodles and Nescafé -- said it is working on a company-wide project to update its nutrition and health strategy. "We are looking at our entire portfolio across the different phases of people’s lives to ensure our products are helping meet their nutritional needs and supporting a balanced diet," he said. For example, Nestle has reduced the sugar and sodium content in its products significantly in the past two decades, about 14-15 per cent in the past 7 years alone. "In recent years, we have launched thousands of products for kids and families that meet external nutrition yardsticks," he said. He further noted that "we have also distributed billions of micronutrient doses via our affordable and nutritious products. As we consider our future nutrition strategy, we are first focusing on assessing the part of our food and beverage portfolio that can be measured against external nutrition profiling systems". Systems like the Health Star Rating and Nutri-Score are useful in this regard and enable consumers to make informed choices. "However, they don’t capture everything. About half of our sales are not covered by these systems. That includes categories such as infant nutrition, specialised health products and pet food, which follow regulated nutrition standards," he said. According to Nestle, it believes that a healthy diet means finding a balance between well-being and enjoyment. "This includes having some space for indulgent foods, consumed in moderation. Our direction of travel has not changed and is clear: we will continue to make our portfolio tastier and healthier, " it said.    In India, Nestle is one of the leading players into the packaged food category. It presently operates eight production units in India and had reported net sales of Rs 13,290.16 crore for 2020. Nestle had last year in October said it will invest Rs 2,600 crore further into India over the next three to four years on expansion of the existing units and towards the construction of its new upcoming unit at Sanand, Gujarat. The Indian market was ranked at number 11 in terms of contribution to Nestle’s global revenue in 2020. "Nestlé India believes that nutrition is a fundamental need and the food industry has a vital role to play in enabling healthier lives. Driven by our purpose, we are constantly striving to increase the nutrient profile of our products, as well as innovate with new and nutritious offerings," a Nestlé India spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maggi-maker-nestle-admits-60-of-its-food-products-not-healthy-report-992486.html
01-06-2021||National||Goa government seeks retrial in Tejpal case, cites trial court's observations||The Goa government in its appeal before the Bombay High Court against journalist Tarun Tejpal's acquittal in a rape case said it was a fit case for retrial, citing the trial court's lack of understanding of a victim's post-trauma behaviour and censuring of her character. The appeal, filed before the HC's Goa bench, was amended this week to bring on record the judgement and to include further grounds against the acquittal of Tejpal. The government said the trial court "considered the evidence given by defence witnesses as gospel truth, but at the same time discredited without any finding the evidence given by the victim and the prosecution witnesses". It also claimed that the trial court completely ignored the most telling piece of evidence in the case (the apology e-mail) "which established the guilt of the accused beyond a shadow of doubt". On May 21, sessions judge Kshama Joshi acquitted Tejpal, former editor-in-chief of the Tehelka magazine, in the case where he was accused of sexually assaulting his then woman colleague in a lift of a five-star hotel in Goa in November 2013 when they were attending an event. The trial court in its judgement questioned the woman's conduct, noting she did not exhibit any kind of "normative behaviour" such as trauma and shock which a victim of sexual assault might plausibly show. The Goa government later filed an appeal against the acquittal. In its amended appeal, which will be heard on June 2, the state government said the trial court had "lost sight" of the fact that it was Tejpal who was an accused and was on trial, and not the victim. "The entire judgement focuses on indicting the complainant rather than trying to ascertain the culpable role of the accused," the appeal said. The finding of the trial court on how a woman, who has been a victim of sexual assault, normally behaves is "unsustainable in law and is coloured by prejudice and patriarchy", it said. In its appeal, the prosecution sought the HC to expunge several portions of the judgement that cast aspersions not only on the prosecution's case, but also on the victim. "This fact, accompanied by other attendant circumstances, clearly makes out a case for retrial in accordance with law," the prosecution said. Referring to portions in the judgement which noted that the CCTV footage and photographs from the event show the victim cheerful and smiling, the government in its appeal said the observations "betray a complete lack of understanding of the post-trauma behaviour of victims". They (observations of trial court) also demonstrate complete ignorance of the law and also several directions and guidelines passed by the Supreme Court (on how to handle such cases), it said. The trial court allowed "scandalous, irrelevant and humiliating questions" to be put before the victim, it said. "The trial court in its 527-page judgement has been influenced by extraneous and inadmissible materials and testimonies, graphic details of the victim's sexual history, that is prohibited by law, and has used the same for purposes of censuring her character and discrediting her evidence," the appeal said. The manner in which the evidence of the prosecutrix (victim) was recorded in the case by the trial court requires close "judicial scrutiny", it said. "Much of the impugned judgement has been consumed by sexual gossip and alleged sexual fantasies related to the prosecutrix which are legally prohibited," the appeal said. The victim in her statement to police and to the court had said that while she was traumatised and shocked after the incident, due to professional commitments she had continued working at the event, the appeal further said. On the trial court refusing to accept the apology e-mail sent by Tejpal to the victim, the government said the court has not given any cogent finding as to how a person of the education, age and maturity of the accused, who was in a position of power over the victim, could in any manner be pressured into apologising. "The trial court has completely ignored the most telling piece of evidence in the case (the apology e-mail) which established the guilt of the accused beyond a shadow of doubt," the appeal said. It further claimed the trial court was wrong in questioning the victims conduct post the incident and that she confided in three of her male colleagues about the incident instead of her female roommate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goa-government-seeks-retrial-in-tejpal-case-cites-trial-courts-observations-992489.html
01-06-2021||National||WTO members should start text-based talks on patent waiver proposal: India||The World Trade Organisation (WTO) members must infuse some certainty during this crisis by agreeing to initiate text-based talks on the proposed patent waiver proposal to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic, India has said. According to India's statement delivered at a TRIPS informal meeting held on May 31, the country has requested to find ways and means to commence text-based negotiations, even if few members continue with their repeated attempts to delay the process. A proposal was submitted by 62 co-sponsors — including India, South Africa, and Indonesia — seeking patent waivers to manufacture Covid-19-related medical products. In October 2020, India and South Africa had submitted the first proposal, suggesting a waiver on the implementation of certain provisions of the TRIPS Agreement in relation to the prevention, containment or treatment of Covid-19. The agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights or TRIPS came into effect in January 1995. It is a multilateral agreement on intellectual property (IP) rights such as copyright, industrial designs, patents and protection of undisclosed information or trade secrets. "The virus has not given us a timeout to go on endlessly discussing the need for or benefit of a waiver. We must rather infuse some certainty in these uncertain times by agreeing to start text-based negotiations on the waiver proposal," India said in the statement. Not allowing text-based negotiations will do "more harm" to WTO's credibility and this collective failure will be remembered by posterity, according to the statement. Several rounds of discussions on this proposal have taken place over the past months. The co-sponsors of the proposal have provided comprehensive responses, including written responses, to many of the concerns and questions raised by the members. "There is no dearth of arguments, rationale and data provided to exhibit both the waiver's significance and its urgency," it added. The TRIPS waiver is a necessary, proportionate and temporary legal measure for removing IP barriers and paving the way for more companies to produce Covid-19 vaccines, therapeutics or diagnostics by providing them with the freedom to operate without the fear of infringement of IP rights or the threat of litigation. "We as cosponsors of the waiver proposal recognise that IPs are not the only barrier to augmenting manufacturing and addressing supply-side constraints. However, we do believe that IPs are the biggest barrier in addressing supply-side constraints, and thus need to be addressed on priority. The waiver is not sufficient, but rather a necessary element of a multipronged strategy," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wto-members-should-start-text-based-talks-on-patent-waiver-proposal-india-992490.html
01-06-2021||National||SC seeks information on Centre's scheme for kids orphaned by Covid-19||The Supreme Court on Tuesday sought to know from the Centre details of a scheme announced under the PM Cares Fund to take care of children who lost their parents due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati assured a bench presided over by Justice L Nageswara Rao that the details of the scheme, including identification of beneficiaries would be furnished before the court. The court also sought to know the mechanism to monitor the scheme. Amicus curiae Gaurav Agrawal asked the court to seek the details of the scheme announced on May 29 saying complete information were still not available, though it said children who have lost parents, and adoptive parent, etc. would be its beneficiaries. The scheme announced by the Union government provided for free education at Kendriya Vidyalaya, free health insurance of Rs 5 lakh and a corpus fund of Rs 10 lakh for such children, among other measures. The bench, also comprising Justice Aniruddha Bose, was hearing an application filed in a Suo Motu matter on prevention of Covid-19 in child care institutions across the country.  Acting on a suggestion by Agrawal, the court told States of Telanagana, Tamil Nadu,  Karnataka, Kerala, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Bihar and Jharkhand to appoint a nodal officer who would interact with the advocate regarding necessary information of orphans. Meanwhile, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights filed an affidavit before the court, stating that 9,346 children have either lost one or the other parent due to the pandemic. NCPCR lawyer, Swarupama Chaturvedi said that the states have not yet provided complete information about the children who lost their parents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-seeks-information-on-centres-scheme-for-kids-orphaned-by-covid-19-992493.html
01-06-2021||National||Home Ministry notice to Alapan Bandyopadhyay under Disaster Management Act||The Union Home Ministry has served a showcause notice to just-retired Chief Secretary of West Bengal Alapan Bandyopadhyay under the Disaster Management Act, officials said. A home ministry official said the notice was served on Bandyopadhyay hours before his retirement on Monday for refusing to comply with the Central government direction, which he said constituted a violation of section 51-B of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. He has been asked to reply within three days, the ministry official said. Bandyopadhyay was recently given an extension of three months. However, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banarjee announced his retirement on Monday and appointed him as the chief advisor to the state government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/home-ministry-notice-to-alapan-bandyopadhyay-under-disaster-management-act-992496.html
01-06-2021||National||India to receive 101% rainfall, normal rainfall in most parts barring NE||India Meteorological Department on Tuesday said most of the country would receive 101 per cent of its average monsoon rainfall between June and September and only parts of north east India are expected to experience a “below normal” monsoon. Among the four homogeneous regions, rainfall is likely to be normal or above normal over northwest India (92-108%), southern peninsula (93-107%) and central India (more than 106%). Seasonal rainfall is most likely to be below normal over northeast India, which is likely to receive less than 95 per cent rainfall. The MET office upgraded its April forecast in which it had predicted 98 per cent of average rainfall, raising hopes of better farm productivity that would be essential to come out of the dark zones of Covid-impacted economy. Releasing the second long range monsoon forecast, Mrityunjay Mahapatra, director general of IMD, said quantitatively, the monsoon’s seasonal (June to September) rainfall over the entire country would likely to be 101 per cent of the long period average of 88 cm, the average seasonal rainfall between 1961-2010. The forecast, based on a statistical model, comes with a model error of 4 per cent on either side. In the monsoon core zone, which consists of most of the rainfed agricultural regions, the rainfall is likely to be above normal (in excess of 106%). The core zone is a vast area spanning over central and western India – which is associated with 88 per cent of monsoon variability and holds key to the monsoon’s “break phases”. Also the rainfall in June is likely to be “normal”. On the dreaded El Nino – an unusual warming of the Pacific that plays havoc with weather around the world - Mahapatra assured it was unlikely to be seen this year. Also a negative influence is unlikely to come from Indian Ocean Dipole (IOD) – a temperature sea-saw between the eastern and western parts of Indian Ocean. The IMD’s probabilistic forecast shows 40 per cent probability of normal monsoon, 22 per cent probability of above normal rainfall and 12 per cent probability of excess rainfall. Taken together, there is a 76 per cent chance of the 2021 south-west monsoon ending up as either a normal or above normal one.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-receive-101-rainfall-normal-rainfall-in-most-parts-barring-ne-992499.html
01-06-2021||National||EC confident of holding five assembly polls in 2022 on time, says CEC Chandra||The Election Commission is confident of holding the five assembly polls due early next year, including in Uttar Pradesh and Punjab, on time as the poll panel has gained a lot of experience from the electoral exercise in Bihar, West Bengal and four other assemblies amid the coronavirus pandemic, Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra has asserted. The terms of the legislative assemblies of Goa, Manipur, Punjab and Uttarakhand are coming to an end in March 2022, while the term of the Uttar Pradesh legislative assembly is scheduled to end in May. "That is the foremost duty of the Election Commission that we should hold the elections and submit the list of the winning candidates (to the governor) before the term of the assembly expires," Chandra told PTI In an interview. He was asked whether the poll panel will be able to hold the assembly polls due in five states on time due to Covid-19 as recently it has deferred some Lok Sabha and assembly bypolls due to the second wave of Covid-19. Some Rajya Sabha bypolls and biennial legislative council elections were also deferred due to the second wave of the pandemic. "As you are aware that the second wave of Covid-19 is also receding and the numbers (of infections) are quite less. We have done elections in Bihar during the pandemic, we have done elections in four states and one UT. We have experience... We have learned various experiences on how to hold polls during the pandemic also," he said. "I am very much sure that with the receding pandemic now, and I wish the pandemic is over soon, we will absolutely be in a position to hold elections next year which are scheduled in five states on time, as per the schedule," Chandra said.    While Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur have BJP-led governments, Punjab has a Congress government. Uttar Pradesh, the country's most populous state, has approximately 14.66 crore voters, while Punjab has over 2 crore electors, according to January 1, 2021 data of the Election Commission. Uttarakhand has 78.15 lakh voters while Manipur has 19.58 lakh and Goa has 11.45 lakh electors. The five states together have an estimated 17.84 crore voters. Ahead of the Bihar polls held last year, the EC had taken various steps to ensure a "Covid-free" election such as allowing people above 80 years of age and those suffering from Covid-19 to use postal ballot and reducing the number of voters per polling station from 1500 to 1000 to ensure distancing norms. The number of polling stations had increased by nearly 80,000 in the four states and one Union Territory due to the distancing norms as a lesser number of voters were allowed per polling station. The same principles were adopted in elections to West Bengal, Assam, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry. However, after it found that Covid safety norms were being flouted in West Bengal during campaigning, the Election Commission had banned roadshows and vehicle rallies in the state and capped the maximum permissible number of people at public meetings at 500. The decision was taken when the last few phases of polls in West Bengal were still to be held. The EC had said at that time that it was noting "with anguish" that many political parties and candidates were still not adhering to the prescribed safety norms during the public gatherings. The Commission had also banned victory processions during and after counting of votes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ec-confident-of-holding-five-assembly-polls-in-2022-on-time-says-cec-chandra-992501.html
01-06-2021||National||Don't mix Covid-19 vaccines yet, stick to SOP: Health Ministry||The Union Health Ministry on Tuesday said that mixing of Covid-19 vaccines is not part of the protocol yet. "Same vaccines (Covishield and Covaxin) have to be administered for both doses. Stick to the SOP," it clarified. Dr N K Arora, chairman of Covid-19 working group under National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization (NTAGI), had yesterday told news agency ANI that India may soon start testing the feasibility of mixing two different doses of Covid-19 vaccines to see if it helps in boosting one's immune response to coronavirus.  The government asserted that India will have enough Covid-19 vaccine doses to inoculate up to one crore people per day by mid-July or early August. Noting that the ferocious second wave is on the verge of abating, the government said that ramping up of testing as well as containment at the district level "has worked" in bringing down the cases. At the same time, it cautioned that while the easing of lockdown is imperative, it has to be done very slowly. “Whatever we know from possible scenarios presented by eminent people, it (Covid-19) will decline and June will be much much better but the concerns are when we open up how do we behave because the virus has not gone anywhere,” NITI Aayog member (Health) V K Paul said. Addressing a press conference, ICMR Director General Dr Balram Bhargava said India's vaccination is being ramped up and "by December we hope to have the whole country vaccinated". He mentioned that India is one of the five countries which are producing vaccines and asserted that "there is no shortage of vaccines". "Shortage is what you feel if you want to vaccinate the country within a month. The total number of vaccinations done in the country is nearly equivalent to the total number done in the United States and our population is four times the population of the USA. We have to have some patience. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-mix-covid-19-vaccines-yet-stick-to-sop-health-ministry-992503.html
01-06-2021||National||Woman killed after being pushed from train||In a shocking incident, a 35-year-old woman was pushed from a running local train in Mumbai suburbs raising the issue of safety of working women in public transports. The mother of three children, Vidya Patil, was a resident of Chinchodyacha Pada at Dombivali in the neighbouring Thane district. Vidya is survived by her husband Dnyaneshwar Patil (40), who is an electrical contractor, three daughters – Purva (9), Megha (6) and Pari, who is only six months old, besides an aged mother-in-law Indubai Patil. She had just started going back to work after maternity leave. The incident happened on Saturday evening around 7.45 pm near the Kalwa station on the Central Railway when Vidya was returning home from her office in Andheri. Vidya had boarded the train at around 7 pm from the Kurla station and was heading for Dombivli. After the train started off the platform at Kalwa, a mobile thief, later identified as Faisal Shaikh entered the train and tried to snatch off her mobile and jump out of the local. However, the woman got hold of him and resisted – but he pushed her following which she fell at the edge of the platform and ran over by the train. The incident was over in a few seconds. The other women on the train raised an alarm and pulled the emergency chain. The GRP, closely watched the CCTV footage of the platform, identified the accused and formed teams to track him down. Faisal Shaikh, a history-sheeter, was later arrested from Mumbra area, police sources said. The GRP have lodged offences of theft, culpable homicide not amounting to murder and other sections of the Indian Railways Act against the arrested-accused and probing further. “Moreover, when the trains are allowed for only people in essential services, how did the thief manage to gain entry to the station premises and escape,” asked Kamlakar Patil, the victim’s brother-in-law. The Maharashtra BJP unit has demanded a detailed probe into the incident. “It is compulsory for GRP/RPF personnel to travel in ladies compartments post 6 pm. Whether the GRP/RPF personnel present... there needs to be an investigation,” said state BJP women’s wing vice president Chitra Wagh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/woman-killed-after-being-pushed-from-train-992505.html
01-06-2021||National||38% of total Covid-19 deaths in Punjab took place in May alone||Around 38 per cent of the coronavirus-related deaths in Punjab took place in May alone, while the month also saw 1,96,634 new cases or 35 per cent of the state's infection count, according to official data. Punjab, which has the highest case fatality rate of 2.4 per cent in the country, registered more than 100 deaths due to Covid-19 every single day in May, according to the medical bulletin data. The state saw a record 231 deaths in a single day on May 18. Punjab had reported a total of 9,022 fatalities due to the infection as on April 30. The toll rose to 14,550, as on May 31, showing 5,528 more people losing their lives to the contagion in that month, the data stated. Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Mohali, Patiala and Amritsar were some of the districts worst affected due to the virus. In May, Ludhiana registered a maximum of 624 Covid-linked fatalities, followed by 495 in Amritsar, 447 in Patiala, 365 in Mohali and 296 in Jalandhar, according to the data. Ludhiana, Amritsar, Jalandhar, Patiala and Mohali districts have so far witnessed a total of 1,999; 1,457; 1,378; 1,224 and 960 deaths, respectively. On May 31, Punjab's infection tally stood at 5,67,607 while it was 3,70,973 on April 30. The state had registered the highest single-day spike of 9,100 new cases on May 8. Meanwhile, Punjab has been witnessing a decline in the number of fresh cases for the past several days. The number of active cases has also come down to 36,433 as against 79,963 on May 12. To contain the spread of the infection, the state government had imposed Covid restrictions including night curfew and weekend lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/38-of-total-covid-19-deaths-in-punjab-took-place-in-may-alone-992507.html
01-06-2021||National||UP govt's work to manage Covid unparalleled: BJP vice president Radha Mohan Singh||BJP vice president Radha Mohan Singh on Tuesday said the work done by the Uttar Pradesh government to manage the Covid situation has been "unparalleled", days after murmurs of protest surfaced in the ruling party over the handling of the second wave of the coronavirus. Singh, who is on a three-day visit to Lucknow along with BJP's national general secretary (organisation) B L Santhosh, met Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday and deputy chief ministers Dinesh Sharma and Keshav Maurya on Tuesday. Speaking about his meeting with the central leadership, Maurya on Tuesday said, "The meeting went on very well, and it was from the organisational point of view. In the 2022 UP Assembly elections, we are going to register a historic win. In that elections, we will cross the 300-seat mark (in UP Assembly)." There are 403 Assembly seats in UP on which elections are held. Santhosh had a dinner meeting with the chief minister on Monday. He also met state Law Minister Brijesh Pathak, who later said they discussed organisational matters and the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, but declined to elaborate. In April, a "confidential" letter written by Pathak surfaced on the social media, in which he had lashed out at the state health authorities, complaining that beds for coronavirus patients were falling short and ambulances took hours to arrive in the state capital. The minister had not rejected the authenticity of the letter, which appeared to challenge the state government's claim that it was on top of the situation. Trashing charges of laxity by the Adityanath government during the second surge of Covid-19, Singh asserted that it was the BJP leaders and workers who rendered service to people at the height of the pandemic, while the leaders of other parties enjoyed "quarantine". He also made light of reports speculating a change in leadership in the state party organisation and described those as "a figment of some person's imagination". Besides a few BJP lawmakers expressing resentment openly on the Covid-control measures, the major opposition parties -- the SP, the BSP and the Congress -- have slammed the government on the handling of the second surge of the pandemic and are planning to make it a major issue in the state Assembly polls, which are only months away. "Generally, BJP review meetings take place twice a month, but this time, there was a gap due to Covid-19. At the meeting, the 'seva' work that we had done was reviewed. Apart from this, the party's preparations for a possible third wave of Covid were also discussed. "Earlier, when I came to Lucknow from Kolkata at the climax of the pandemic, the leaders of the rest of the parties were in quarantine, while it was only the BJP leaders and workers who were rendering service to people," Singh said. He said the chief minister reached out to the last person in the society, went to villages and pointed out that even the World Health Organization (WHO) had praised the state's handling of Covid-19. "This pandemic was beyond everyone's control. Despite this, the chief minister's work was better compared to other states. The work done by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath in the pandemic has been unparalleled. The work done by Modiji during the earthquake (2001 Gujarat earthquake) could not have been done by anyone else," he said. Asked to comment on the saffron party's performance in the recently-concluded Uttar Pradesh panchayat polls, Singh said, "It is for the first time that the BJP won so many seats in the panchayat polls and the tally of the Samajwadi Party, which used to win (these polls), has come down considerably. We have significantly strengthened our presence in the zila panchayats and most of the Independents are with us." Months ahead of the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has decided to intensify its "Seva Hi Sangathan" campaign, under which party workers will reach out to those affected by Covid-19, extend help to them and also make people aware about vaccination. This was decided at a meeting held at the state BJP office here on Monday, which was chaired by Santhosh and attended by the party's vice-president as also the state unit chief, Swatantra Dev Singh, general secretary (organisation) of the party's state unit Sunil Bansal and other senior leaders. The state BJP said Santhosh held a meeting with the party office-bearers and elicited information about the work done under "Seva Hi Sangathan" and those on the completion of seven years of the Modi government at the Centre. Santhosh said BJP workers should reach out to those affected by Covid-19, extend help to them and raise awareness on vaccination. At least one youngster and one woman worker of the party should visit each village and make people aware of the Covid vaccination drive, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-govts-work-to-manage-covid-unparalleled-bjp-vice-president-radha-mohan-singh-992513.html
01-06-2021||National||J&K police files chargesheet against PDP's Waheed Parra in politician-militant nexus case||The Jammu and Kashmir Police on Tuesday filed a chargesheet against PDP leader Waheed Parra in a case related to the alleged nexus between politicians and terror groups in the union territory, officials said here. The chargesheet was filed under various sections of the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act before a designated court, they said. Parra was arrested by the Criminal Investigation (Kashmir) of Jammu and Kashmir's CID department earlier this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jk-police-files-chargesheet-against-pdps-waheed-parra-in-politician-militant-nexus-case-992516.html
01-06-2021||National||'Hall of shame': Rahul Gandhi attacks PM Modi on GDP, unemployment||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the adverse GDP and unemployment figures and raised the issue of "shortage" of drugs for treating 'black fungus'. "PM's hall of shame - Minimum GDP, Maximum Unemployment," he said on Twitter and shared a graph showing a rise in unemployment among the youth since 2014. PM’s hall of shame- His remarks came a day after data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO) showed that India's economy contracted by 7.3 per cent in the fiscal year ended March 2021 after the growth rate picked up in the fourth quarter, just before the world's worst outbreak of coronavirus infections hit the country. The gross domestic product (GDP) in Asia's third-largest economy grew by 1.6 per cent in the January-March period, up from 0.5 per cent in the previous quarter when India began pulling out of a steep pandemic-induced recession in the earlier six months. Gandhi also posed questions to the central government on mucormycosis or black fungus' epidemic. "What is being done about the shortage of drug Amphotericin B? What is the procedure for helping the patient get this medicine," he said on Twitter. "Instead of providing treatment, why is the Modi government embroiling the public in formalities," he also asked, but did not elaborate. After thousands of cases of 'black fungus' were reported among Covid-19 patients in the country, the Centre on May 20 urged all states and union territories to declare it as a notifiable disease under the Epidemic Diseases Act to ensure mandatory surveillance to tackle the "new challenge". The government had said that the shortage of Amphotericin B shortage will be resolved soon as five more pharma companies have got new drug approval for producing it in India, in addition to the existing six pharma companies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hall-of-shame-rahul-gandhi-attacks-pm-modi-on-gdp-unemployment-992518.html
01-06-2021||National||2 killed, 6 injured after portion of two-storey building collapses in Varanasi||Two labourers were killed and six others injured after a portion of a two-storey building collapsed on Tuesday in the Kashi Vishwanath corridor in Varanasi, where construction was going on, officials said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to District Magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma about the incident and assured all possible help. Sharma, in a tweet, said the prime minister offered his condolences to the families of those killed in the incident and directed officials to provide proper medical care to all the injured. Chief executive officer of the temple Sunil Verma said the families of the deceased will be given a compensation of Rs 5 lakh each and Rs 50,000 each to those injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2-killed-6-injured-after-portion-of-two-storey-building-collapses-in-varanasi-992520.html
01-06-2021||National||'Recipe for disaster': Covid-19 spreads fear in India's tea estates||When Indian tea plantation worker Bholanath Natto and his wife tested positive for Covid-19 their biggest worry was not their health, but where they would quarantine and how they could get hold of food and drinking water without his wages. As some of the cities worst hit by India's Covid-19 crisis see a lull in new cases, infections are rising among millions of tea pickers - many of whom live in cramped living quarters where measures to curb the virus's spread are difficult to implement. The positive test result and hospital orders to quarantine have been a logistical nightmare for the Nattos, who have spent the last 15 days holed up in a wood shed behind the two-room plantation house they share with their children. "We converted a shed where we stored wood in case our cooking gas ran out into a makeshift room for my wife and me to live in isolation," Natto, 55, told the Thomson Reuters Foundation from his home in West Bengal state. "My teenage daughter stepped into the kitchen for the first time to cook, while her older brother tried to arrange drinking water for us. Nobody wanted to help us because everyone is scared. We are home alone, with food running out." India reported its lowest daily rise in new infections since April 11 on Monday, but concerns have been voiced about rising numbers in the country's east and northeastern regions, home to lush tea gardens that supply much of the world's tea. Since the pandemic began, India has reported 28 million cases and 329,100 deaths, health ministry data showed, though the true figures are widely believed to be much higher. India's tea estates employ some 3.5 million workers, thousands of whom are currently quarantining in small, overcrowded homes, struggling to access food, water and aid, union leaders said. In West Bengal, more than 4,500 cases have been recorded across 300 of the state's 800 tea gardens, according to government data. Cases in the tea gardens of neighbouring Assam have risen three-fold in the last 10 days, with more than 6,000 workers and family members testing positive, local media reported. "The situation is alarming," said Abhijit Mazumdar, working president of the Tarai Sangrami Cha Shramik Union, which represents tea pickers in West Bengal. "There are no facilities - no isolation centres, no doctors in defunct dispensaries - leaving workers to battle the disease alone. Fever cases are up, those testing positive are stuck at home with their families and simply resigned to fate," he added. 'Islands of neglect' India is the world's second-largest tea producer and the industry has long faced accusations of exploitative labour conditions - from long working hours and low pay to poor healthcare facilities and bad housing. Labour rights campaigners said such issues could make the tea plantations and the often-remote settlements where tea workers live particularly vulnerable to Covid-19. "The gardens are like isolated islands, each supposed to have all facilities for its workers who live on site. But in reality they are islands of neglect," Mazumdar said.  Tea industry group the Indian Tea Association said it was pushing for plantations to ensure on-site vaccination for all workers and their families. "We are not just concerned but fully involved with the district authorities to keep tea garden workers safe," said Arijit Raha, the association's secretary general. "There are customised guidelines for tea gardens and we are ensuring our members follow them. Fever checks, masks, sanitisation and Covid care centres are a must. We have managed to keep the infected numbers low, but the challenge remains." 'Recipe for disaster' But deep in the heart of the gardens, where ongoing tea picking season means non-stop work, workers said they had no access to separate quarantine facilities and were constantly worried they would spread the infection to their families. "There are up to three generations living in these two-room, often dilapidated homes, with one bathroom to share" said Victor Basu, founder of Dooars Jagron, a charity working to defend tea workers' rights. "It's a recipe for disaster. Tea garden hospitals need to be made functional and if safe spaces for isolation are not created, the pandemic will spread like wild fire," he added. In Banarhat in West Bengal's Jalpaiguri district, Gangaram Teli, who works as a security guard, has been watching with trepidation as coronavirus cases in his tea garden rise. "There is one tap for four houses," said Teli, 39. "For affected families, accessing the water point or buying groceries is very stressful. The disease is such that neighbours hesitate to help. But some of us have been pooling money to ensure the sick families get what they need." While Natto's fever has passed, the last few days of the couple's three-week confinement have been particularly fraught because their savings have dried up. "I feel fine but cannot step out for another few days," said Natto, who earns about 7,000 Indian rupees ($96) per month and only gets four days of paid sick leave. "We need food in the house and I need to recharge my phone, which is the only way I can access a doctor or any help. I have to go back to work."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/recipe-for-disaster-covid-19-spreads-fear-in-indias-tea-estates-992528.html
01-06-2021||National||Marin pulls out of Tokyo Olympics due to knee injury||Defending champion Carolina Marin on Tuesday pulled out of the Tokyo Olympics after suffering an Anterior Cruciate Ligament (ACL) tear in her left knee that will require surgery to heal. The 27-year-old from Spain felt discomfort in her knee during training on Saturday and tests revealed that it's an ACL injury. "After the examination during the weekend and the medical consultation, I confirm that I have torn the ACL and both meniscus on my left knee. I will undergo surgery this week and start my recovery," Marin tweeted. "This is another blow that I have to deal, but I will certainly be back. The preparation during the last two months had become very difficult for reasons beyond the team's control, but we were excited and knew that I would be in the best shape for the Olympics. It won't be possible." The Olympic Games are scheduled to begin on July 23. Marin, a three-time World Champion, was a title favourite as she had been in red-hot form this year, winning four of the five finals that she played. "I want to thank everyone for your support and messages during these days. I know that I am in safe hands and that I have a lot of people by my side." Marin had earlier suffered an ACL injury on her right knee in January 2019, which kept her out of the courts until September of that year. Marin had defeated India's P V Sindhu in the finals to claim the gold at the 2016 Rio Olympics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/marin-pulls-out-of-tokyo-olympics-due-to-knee-injury-992531.html
01-06-2021||National||Antilia bomb scare: Mumbai police officer Sunil Mane dismissed from service||Mumbai Police inspector Sunil Mane, who was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with the recovery of an explosives-laden SUV outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence and the subsequent murder of Mansukh Hiren, was dismissed from service on Tuesday, an official said. Mane became the third officer of the Mumbai Police to be sacked from service after Assistant Police Inspectors Sachin Vaze and Riyazuddin Kazi. A total of four policemen, including the three officers and police constable Vinayak Shinde, have been dismissed from service so far in connection with the Ambani security scare case. The order of Mane's dismissal from service with "immediate effect" was issued on Tuesday under the Provision of Article 311(2)(b) of the Constitution by Mumbai Police Commissioner, the official said. Mane, who headed Unit-12 of the Mumbai crime branch, was arrested by the NIA in April and placed under suspension. Mane had been transferred to the local arms section in a reshuffle of crime branch following the arrest of Sachin Vaze in the Ambani security scare case. The NIA had claimed Mane was part of the conspiracy to kill Thane-based businessman Hiren, who purportedly owned the explosives-laden vehicle which was found parked near Ambani's house 'Antilia' in south Mumbai on February 25. Hiren's body was found in a creek in Thane on March 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/antilia-bomb-scare-mumbai-police-officer-sunil-mane-dismissed-from-service-992532.html
01-06-2021||National||India to have enough shots to vaccinate 1 crore a day by July-August: Centre||India will have enough Covid-19 vaccine doses to inoculate up to one crore people per day by mid-July or early August, the government asserted on Tuesday as it underlined that there is no shortage of jabs and called for patience citing the country's large population. Noting that the ferocious second wave is on the verge of abating, the government said that ramping up of testing as well as containment at the district level "has worked" in bringing down the cases. At the same time, it cautioned that while the easing of lockdown is imperative, it has to be done very slowly. “Whatever we know from possible scenarios presented by eminent people, it (Covid-19) will decline and June will be much much better but the concerns are when we open up how do we behave because the virus has not gone anywhere,” NITI Aayog member (Health) V K Paul said. Addressing a press conference, ICMR Director General Dr Balram Bhargava said India's vaccination is being ramped up and "by December we hope to have the whole country vaccinated". He mentioned that India is one of the five countries which are producing vaccines and asserted that "there is no shortage of vaccines". "Shortage is what you feel if you want to vaccinate the country within a month. The total number of vaccinations done in the country is nearly equivalent to the total number done in the United States and our population is four times the population of the USA. We have to have some patience. "By mid-of year, mid-July or early August, we will have more than enough doses to vaccinate up to a crore per day," he said. Joint Secretary in Health Ministry Lav Agarwal said 4,03,49,830 vaccine doses were supplied from the Centre to states free of cost in May while 2,66,50,500  doses were directly procured by states and 1,24,54,760 doses were directly procured by private hospitals. In the past month, a total of 7,94,55,090 doses were available, of which 6,10,57,003 doses have been administered. The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has reached 21,60,46,638, according to the ministry data updated this morning. Bhargava said in the first week of April there were less than 200 districts that had more than 10 percent case positivity which in the last week of April rose to nearly 600 districts. India ramped up testing as well as containment which worked but still 239 districts have more than 10 per cent positivity, 145 districts have a positivity between 5 to 10 per cent while 350 districts, which is nearly half of India, have less than 5 per cent case positivity, he said. "We are moving in the right direction. Testing has been ramped as well as the containment at the district level has worked. However, it is not a sustainable solution and we have to find a mechanism on how to ease our containment or lockdown and that has to be done very gradually. "The opening up revolves on three pillars, the test positivity rate in that particular district has to be less than 5 per cent for over a week, at least 70 per cent of the vulnerable population should be vaccinated and community ownership for this Covid-19-appropriate behaviour as well as care should be taken up by the community in a big way," he said. Paul said the peak rose very fast driven by highly transmissible variants and a pool of vulnerable people available to virus. "It went beyond estimates. It is coming down but change happened because of restriction-based containment was implemented intensively," he said. Agarwal said there has been a continuous decrease in daily cases since India reported a peak on May 7. There has been an almost 69 per cent decline in Covid-19 cases since the highest peak, he said. Also, there has been a consistent decline in active cases which presently stand at 18.95 lakh. A decrease in active cases by more than 18 lakhs since the peak on May 10 (a decline of almost 50 per cent)  has been observed. The daily positivity rate reported on Tuesday is 6.62 per cent,  the lowest since April 1. Paul said mixing of Covid-19 vaccines is not in protocol and clarified that there is no change in the schedule of two-dose vaccines Covishield and Covaxin. On Covid-19 among children, Paul cautioned that even though the coronavirus infection has not taken a serious shape among children till now, its impact can increase among them if there is a change in virus behaviour or epidemiology dynamics, and said preparations are on to deal with any such situation. "We reassure you that the needs of the paediatric population will be arranged and no gaps will be left," he said, adding "we will do an audit of what is required and would be required in the worst-case scenario and be put into action." Paul said multi-system inflammatory syndrome (MIS-C) has been seen post-Covid-19 among children and a national group has been formed to look into the pediatric complications related to the infection. He refused to comment on the doctors' protest on a statement by yoga guru Ramdev on allopathy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-have-enough-shots-to-vaccinate-1-crore-a-day-by-july-august-centre-992534.html
01-06-2021||National||H D Deve Gowda took oath as PM on this day 25 years ago, JD(S) to highlight achievements||Exactly 25 years ago on this day, H D Deve Gowda was at the centre of one of the surprising turn of events in the country's political history that catapulted him onto the national stage and securing the Prime Minister's post without seriously aspiring for it. With barely 18 months as the Chief Minister of Karnataka, Gowda, who has had no big role in national politics till then, assumed charge as the 11th Prime Minister on June 1,1996, after emerging as the leader of the 13-party United Front, which was supported by the Congress from outside. He was the 14th Chief Minister of Karnataka from 1994 to 1996. Congress losing decisively in the 1996 Lok Sabha election, and fall of the 13-day government led by BJP's Atal Bihari Vajpayee, preceded his entry into the national political scene. Popularly known as "Mannina Maga" (son of the soil), Gowda is the only Kannadiga and second south Indian after P V Narasimha Rao to have occupied the top post. Gowda, who has called himself an "Accidental Prime Minister" on several occasions in the past, has stated that it was leftist stalwart Jyoti Basu's chance to become PM that surprisingly landed in his lap, and it was the former West Bengal Chief Minister himself who proposed his name for PM. Gowda was the Prime Minister for less than a year (324 days) until April 21, 1997, as had to demit office, with Congress withdrawing support. It is said that Gowda's differences with Sitaram Kesri, who became Congress president after Narasimha Rao, cost him the post, following which Inder Kumar Gujral was chosen as leader of the United Front and he became the Prime Minister. Currently, the 88-year-old leader is a member of Rajya Sabha and JD(S) national president. C M Ibrahim, who was Minister of Information and Broadcasting in Gowda's cabinet, speaking to PTI, termed the tenure under the former Prime Minister as the "golden era of the country", and for the first time a "man from the soil, a humble farmer", had risen to that level. Recalling the "corruption-free" administration, he said, Gowda's "dress, character and history" was all "white", and pointed out that he "showed the world that Kashmir was part of India and the strength of democracy by holding elections, and through his multiple visits there." Highlighting Gowda's simplicity and modest living amid Lutyens' Delhi, Ibrahim said he relished his favourite "Ragi Mudde" (Ragi dumplings) even at 7, Race Course Road, the PM's official residence and the doors were open for any one who come to meet him. "..It is bad luck of this country that his tenure was short, Sitaram Kesri knowing that if he will allow this south Indian, he may become another Chaudhary Charan Singh (former PM) from Karnataka, withdrew support," he said, while listing Gowda's various contributions to the country and the state, especially like the Upper Krishna Project. One-time close associate of the former Prime Minister, Ibrahim is currently with the Congress as its MLC, and has dropped hints about plans to come back to the JD(S). In a writeup about his father's political legacy on the occasion of the silver jubilee of oath-taking as PM, JD (S) leader and former Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy describes Gowda's 11 months of Prime Ministership, as a "milestone", as he took the country towards development without any corruption. "In his (Gowda) long political career, he was in power only for 18 months as CM and 11 months as PM.. power never made him arrogant, he never gave up his ideology for the sake of power," the former Prime Minister's son said. State Congress President D K Shivakumar said it is a matter of great pride for Karnataka that Gowda was the Prime Minister. "No one from the state had got that opportunity...because of his struggle he reached the top post. It was a happy moment for all of us, leaving aside political differences. Let him continue to guide the state," he said. Gowda counts his visits to Jammu and Kashmir, shortly after taking over, and the first PM do so after a gap of nine years, also about holding elections there in 1996, thereby ending the long stint of Governor's rule (about six years) among the highlights of his tenure. Another achievement he often highlights is the ceasefire agreement with Naga groups in 1997, which followed his meeting as Prime Minister with Naga leaders Isak Chishi Swu and Thuingaleng Muivah in Zurich, in February that year, as a result of "constructive diplomacy". Gowda is also credited by his party leaders and supporters for giving thrust for the IT sector by announcing a tax holiday, resolving dispute with Bangladesh on sharing of Ganga river water, announcing a financial package of about Rs 6,000 crore for northeastern states, among others. To celebrate the silver jubilee of Gowda's oath taking as the Prime Minister, his party, the JD(S) is organising a campaign to commemorate his achievements. As part of the 'Saadhanegala Smarane' (remembrance of achievement), senior politicians and journalists will share their opinion on Gowda's political journey, achievements and his contribution to the country and the state, the JD(S) has said. The 25-days campaign from June 1 to 25 will see 25 noted personalities speak about Gowda via video, which will be posted on JD(S)' officials twitter and Facebook accounts at 5 pm everyday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/h-d-deve-gowda-took-oath-as-pm-on-this-day-25-years-ago-jds-to-highlight-achievements-992542.html
01-06-2021||National||Two naxals killed in encounter in Chhattisgarh||Two naxals including a woman were killed in a gun battle with the security forces in Chhattisgarh's Kondagaon district on Tuesday, a senior police official said. A huge cache of firearms and explosives was also recovered from the site, he said. The gunfight took place around 12:30 pm in the dense forest near Bhandarpal village when a team of the police's District Reserve Guard (DRG) was out on an anti-naxal operation, Inspector General of Police (Bastar range) Sundarraj P told PTI. Kondagaon in Bastar region is located around 200 km from the state capital Raipur. The operation had been launched on Monday based on information about the presence of Maoists belonging to the `North Kanker-Mainpur Division Coordination Committee' in the jungles of Rajpur, Bhandarpal and Timnar villages along the Kondagaon-Kanker district border, the IG said. The DRG team ran into a group of ultras near Bhandarpal, leading to an exchange of fire that lasted for about an hour, he said. After the encounter ceased, the bodies of two Maoists, including a woman, clad in `uniform', were found at the spot, he said. An SLR (self-loading rifle), .303 rifle and three 12 bore rifles along with a huge quantity of explosives and camping materials were also recovered, Sundarraj said. "It is believed that a few more naxal cadres might have been injured in the action. A search is underway," he added. A series of search operations have been carried out by the Border Security Force (BSF), Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), a Special Task Force and DRG along the Kanker- Kondagaon border in the last two days, the senior police officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-naxals-killed-in-encounter-in-chhattisgarh-992545.html
01-06-2021||National||Punjab Congress crisis: Sidhu appears before AICC panel, says his stance remains unchanged||Truth can be suppressed but never defeated, Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu said Tuesday after he appeared before a three-member committee set up by the party to address factionalism in the Punjab unit, and asserted his stand remains unchanged. Sidhu has been at loggerheads with Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and has publicly attacked him over an SIT report on the sacrilege issue in the state. "I came here on the call of the high command and appraised them about the state of affairs in the party. I have brought the voice of the people of Punjab from the grassroots level to the party high command," he said. Emerging after the over 1.5-hour meeting, he told reporters, "My stand is and will remain the same and unchanged. Punjab's democratic right that goes to the government must return to the people in any form." The three-member panel formed to end factionalism within the party ahead of the Punjab assembly election is headed by Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge and comprises AICC general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat and former MP J P Aggarwal. "I have also the truth before the committee. The truth can be suppressed but can never be defeated. The voice of Punjab's truth and its rights have been conveyed to the high command...We have to defeat all anti-Punjab forces," Sidhu said. He said his aim is that the power of people of Punjab and the taxes they pay, should return to them in whichever way. "Power of the People must return to the People!! Every Punjabi must be made shareholder in Punjab's Progress ... Jittega Punjab, Jittegi Punjabiyat, Jittega har Punjabi (Punjab shall win, Punjabiyat shall win, every Punjab shall win)," he said on Twitter. His remarks come days after he attacked Chief Minister Amarinder Singh for allegedly not giving justice in the sacrilege issue involving the alleged desecration of Guru Granth Sahib in Bargari. The former Punjab minister had quit the Amarinder Singh cabinet in July 2019 after being divested of the local bodies portfolio and has been in political wilderness since. The AICC committee has also met party MLAs since Monday in batches of 25. It will also be meeting the chief minister too before submitting its report to the party chief. Sources said the panel is part of the high command's way of accommodating Sidhu back in Punjab ahead of assembly elections and end all kind of factionalism. Sources added that Sidhu could be given a ministerial berth and be made deputy chief minister, along with another Hindu and Dalit face.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjab-congress-crisis-sidhu-appears-before-aicc-panel-says-his-stance-remains-unchanged-992547.html
01-06-2021||National||RDSO becomes first standards body to join government's 'One Nation, One Standard' scheme||Lucknow-based RDSO, which sets standards for the railway sector, has become the first standards body in the country to join the central government's 'One Nation, One Standard' scheme that aims to ensure quality products to Indian consumers. The Research Design and Standards Organisation (RDSO) has now been recognised as a 'Standard Developing Organisation' by the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS), which is implementing the scheme. The partnership will help RDSO, the sole R&D wing of the railways ministry, to realign its standard formulation procedures as per the code of good practices mentioned under the WTO-Technical Barriers to Trade (WTO-TBT). The recognition will be valid for three years.  At a virtual press meet on Tuesday, Railway Board Chairman and CEO Suneet Sharma and Consumer Affairs Secretary Leena Nandan said that RSDO's partnership with BIS will help harmonise standards for the ease of doing business in the future. The objective of the government's 'One Nation, One Standard' scheme, launched in 2019, is to ensure there is a synergy and no overlap in the standardisation work in the country, thereby building a 'Brand India' identity in the long run. The BIS, under the aegis of the consumer affairs ministry, has experience of more than three decades and that will be of help to other standards developing organisations working in specific areas across the country, BIS Director General Pramod Kumar Tiwari said. He also said the BIS is making efforts to encourage other standard developing organisations like Directorate of Standardisation under the defence ministry and Directorate of Marketing and Inspection (DMI) under the agriculture ministry to be part of this voluntary scheme. The process to be part of the scheme is simple and there is a registration fee of Rs 1,000. An independent board in the consumer affairs ministry decides on the applications, he added. According to RDSO Director General Virendra Kumar, this is a game changing move as RDSO will be aligning better with WTO-TBT code of good practice. "Though we had domain knowledge, there was less stakeholders' participation in the standards making process," he added. This partnership will help RDSO to take the opinion of all experts so that time taken in standards making is reduced as well as to have the best quality product at a cheaper cost. RDSO has formulated over 1,000 standards for railways and many more are under process.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rdso-becomes-first-standards-body-to-join-governments-one-nation-one-standard-scheme-992550.html
01-06-2021||National||Swapan Dasgupta, Mahesh Jethmalani nominated to Rajya Sabha||Senior lawyer Mahesh Jethmalani and BJP leader Swapan Dasgupta were on Tuesday nominated as members of the Rajya Sabha. Dasgupta, who had quit the Rajya Sabha in March to contest the West Bengal assembly elections, will serve as a member of the upper house for the remainder of his term till April 24, 2022. Jethmalani, a noted lawyer and the son of jurist late Ram Jethmalani, has been nominated to the seat that fell vacant after the demise of sculptor Raghunath Mohapatra. The term of Jethmalani, who has been associated with the BJP, will be till July 13, 2024 – the remaining tenure of Mohapatra who had died of Covid-19 last month. The Constitution empowers the President to nominate individuals having professional knowledge or practical experience in matters related to literature, science, art and social service to the Rajya Sabha. The Rajya Sabha is a 250-member House of which 238 members are elected by MLAs of different states while 12 are nominated by the President. Dasgupta was first nominated to the Rajya Sabha on April 25, 2016 but and had not mentioned affiliation to any political party. Trinamool Lok Sabha member Mahua Moitra had raised objection to Dasgupta’s continuance in the Upper House after BJP fielded the journalist-turned Parliamentarian as its candidate from Tarakeshwar constituency for the elections in West Bengal. Dasgupta had quit after Moitra's objections and now makes a re-entry to the Upper House. Jethmalani has been a member of the BJP National Executive and unsuccessfully contested the Lok Sabha elections in 2009 against Congress leader Priya Dutt from Mumbai North Central seat. Jethmalani had quit the BJP National Executive in 2012 after differences with the then BJP President Nitin Gadkari.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/swapan-dasgupta-mahesh-jethmalani-nominated-to-rajya-sabha-992552.html
01-06-2021||National||Lt General Manoj Pande takes charge of Eastern Army Command, Lt General Ajai Singh of Andaman & Nicobar Command||Lt Gen Manoj Pande on Tuesday took charge as the new commander of the operationally crucial Eastern Army Command at a time India has been maintaining a high state of combat readiness along the nearly 3,500 km-long Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China in view of the border row in eastern Ladakh. The Kolkata-headquartered Eastern Command takes care of guarding the LAC in Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh sectors. In another important posting, Lt Gen Ajai Singh became the 16th Commander-in-Chief of the Andaman and Nicobar Command (CINCAN) which is India's only tri-service theatre command. Lt Gen Singh succeeds Lt Gen Pande at the Andaman and Nicobar Command.  Lt Gen Pande was commissioned in the Bombay Sappers in December 1982. In his distinguished career, he has held several prestigious command and staff assignments in conventional as well as counter-insurgency operations in all types of terrain. He commanded an engineer regiment along the Line of Control during operation Parakram in Jammu and Kashmir, an engineer brigade in the western sector, an infantry brigade along LoC and a mountain division in high altitude area of western Ladakh and a Corps in the Northeast. At the Eastern Army Command, Lt Gen Pande succeeded Lt Gen Anil Chauhan who retired on Monday. Lt Gen Pande will be the senior-most Army commander when Army Chief Gen MM Naravane retires from service next year. According to convention, the senior-most Army Commander becomes the Army Chief. "The Army Commander conveys his warm greetings to the people and wishes them peace, prosperity, health and happiness in times ahead," the Army said in a statement. Lt Gen Singh, who took charge of Andaman and Nicobar Command, was commissioned into the 81 Armoured regiment in December 1983, a regiment raised by his late father. The officer has served in various positions across all six of the Army's geographical Commands as well as at the Army Training Command. "A fifth-generation Army as well as Cavalry/Armoured Corps officer, with family service of over 162 years since September 13, 1858, Lt Gen Ajai Singh is an alumnus of The Lawrence School, Sanawar and National Defence Academy and Indian Military Academy," the Army said in a statement. "Lt Gen Ajai Singh also undertook volunteer tenures for counter-insurgency operations in the Kashmir Valley and in the North East, where he was posted at a Mountain Division on the border," it added. He held several sensitive positions at the Army headquarters including as the additional director general at the Military Operations Directorate, director general of financial planning and director-general of military training.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lt-general-manoj-pande-takes-charge-of-eastern-army-command-lt-general-ajai-singh-of-andaman-nicobar-command-992553.html
01-06-2021||National||Delhi hospitals see record lowest Covid admissions in nearly 2 months||Delhi recorded less than 200 hospital admissions of Covid-19 patients on Monday, the lowest in nearly two months, according to government data. The number of people discharged from hospitals on a daily basis after recovering from Covid-19 has outnumbered the number of those getting admitted since May 14, the data showed. The decline in hospital admissions can be attributed to the drop in the number of positive cases, officials said. According to the government data, Delhi witnessed 182 hospital admissions as against 333 discharges on Monday. On Saturday and Sunday, the hospital admission figures stood at 228 and 237 respectively, while 619 and 425 patients were discharged on those days. The hospital admissions have dropped below the 1,000-mark since May 16. The admissions on a single day had risen to 1,993 on April 29, it showed. Between April 1 and April 5, when the daily cases were below 5,000, the admissions were more than the discharges on a daily basis, according to the data. On May 14, 1,256 new Covid patients were admitted as against 1,331 discharged, it stated. The next day, 1,052 patients came to hospitals while 1,379 were discharged. Between May 16 and May 20, the hospital admissions recorded were 952, 914, 806, 731 and 560 respectively while the discharges in the same period were 1,079, 895, 1,326, 1,090 and 978 respectively. Since May 22, the hospital admissions have remained below the 500-mark. The hospital admissions recorded on May 22 stood at 482 and the subsequent days figures were 412, 382, 388, 300, 368 and 229 respectively. Between April 1 and April 5, the hospital admission figures stood at 294, 356, 353, 305 and 406 while the number of patients discharged were 139, 163, 166, 131 and 141 respectively. On April 11, the daily cases crossed the 10,000-mark for the first time. Last year on November 11 last year, the national capital had recorded 8,593 cases, the highest figure before that date. There were 953 hospital admissions on April 11 followed by 932 the next day. On April 13, the hospital admissions crossed the 1,000-mark with 1,218 patients, followed by 1,361, 1812, 1426, 1519 on April 14, 15, 16, 17 respectively. Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director of LNJP Hospital, the Delhi government's biggest Covid facility, said, "The hospital admissions have shown a huge decline. When the cases were at a peak in April, we were seeing 190-200 admissions on a daily basis while now we see eight, nine or 10 admissions in a day." Echoing similar sentiments, Dr BL Sherwal, medical director of the Delhi-government run Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, said there are now only one or two admissions and during the time the cases were on a spike, 30-40 patients were admitted daily. Hospitals had to turn away patients at that time owing to a shortage of beds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hospitals-see-record-lowest-covid-admissions-in-nearly-2-months-992560.html
01-06-2021||National||High time ICMR issues guidelines on 'black fungus' drug use: Delhi High Court||The Delhi High Court Tuesday directed the Centre to form a policy on distribution of Liposomal Amphotericin B drug for treat black fungus and spell out the priority of patients so that some lives could be saved, if not all. The administration of drug has to be prioritized for those with better chances of survival as also the younger generation, having promise of future over the older ones who have lived their lives, the high court said. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said the Centre may carve out an exception in the policy for those serving the nation in high position and whose safety and security is necessary because of the pivotal roles that they play. It said the drug is in shortage in the entire country including Delhi for the last two weeks now. The court said it is high time that the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR), which is a statutory body constituted to lay down guidelines for medical treatment of patients suffering from various ailments, comes out with clear guidelines on the use of Liposomal Amphotericin-B, plain Amphotericin-B and Posaconazole, for the treatment of black fungus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/high-time-icmr-issues-guidelines-on-black-fungus-drug-use-delhi-high-court-992566.html
01-06-2021||National||BJP 'imposing' officer from Delhi on Uttar Pradesh: Akhilesh||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday accused the BJP of "imposing" an officer on Uttar Pradesh, in an apparent reference to retired IAS officer A K Sharma who is overseeing Covid relief in Varanasi. He also targeted the Centre, saying that it directed a senior officer from West Bengal to appear in Delhi against the wishes of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. Banerjee on Monday said she was appointing Bengal Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay as chief advisor for three years effective from Tuesday, after allowing the bureaucrat, who was ordered by the central government to report to Delhi, to retire. Calling BJP's policy strange, Yadav tweeted in Hindi, "Imposing an officer sent from Delhi on Uttar Pradesh against the chief minister's (Yogi Adityanath) will and in West Bengal, calling an officer to Delhi against the wishes of the chief minister." अजब है भाजपा की नीति, उप्र के मुख्यमंत्री पर उनकी मर्ज़ी के विरुद्ध दिल्ली से भेजा एक अधिकारी थोपना व प. बंगाल की मुख्यमंत्री जी की मर्ज़ी के विरुद्ध एक अधिकारी को प. बंगाल से दिल्ली बुलाना। उप्र में डबल इंजन से राज्य को खींचने के झूठे वादे करने वालों के बीच खींचातानी जारी है। "In Uttar Pradesh, tussle continues among those who made false promises of 'double engine' government in the state," he said. Sharma, a retired IAS officer of the Gujarat cadre, after closely working with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, voluntarily retired as secretary of Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, and joined the BJP in January. Soon after, the retired 1988-batch IAS officer was made the party's MLC in Uttar Pradesh, and there have been reports that the central leadership wants to elevate him. Sharma (58) is, at present, overseeing Covid relief work in Varanasi, which is also the prime minister's constituency, and its adjoining districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-imposing-officer-from-delhi-on-uttar-pradesh-akhilesh-992568.html
01-06-2021||National||CBSE, CISCE Class 12 Board examinations cancelled due to Covid-19||The CBSE and CISCE Class 12 examinations have been cancelled owing to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, ending weeks of uncertainty that had students and parents on the edge. The decision to cancel the CBSE Class 12 examinations was taken at a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, virtually reversing the “broad consensus” on conducting the examinations arrived at on May 23. Separately, the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) also announced cancellation of the Indian School Certificate (ISC) Class 12 examinations. The Prime Minister directed officials to ensure that the results are prepared in accordance with well-defined criteria, in a fair and time-bound manner. The alternative assessment criteria has not been finalised by the CBSE yet, but it was expected to be on similar lines as announced for Class 10 by taking into account the performance of a student in internal exams through the year. “In view of the uncertain conditions due to Covid and the feedback obtained from various stakeholders, it was decided that Class XII Board Exams would not be held this year,” a statement from the Prime Minister’s Office said. “Anxieties among students, parents, teachers must be put to an end,” the prime minister said. Modi pointed out that while Covid-19 figures were on the decline and some states were managing the crisis well through an effective micro-containment strategy, other states have opted for lockdown. “Students should not be forced to appear for exams in such a stressful situation,” the Prime Minister said, noting that the Covid-19 situation was dynamic across the country. However, if some students desire to take the exams, such an option would be provided to them by CBSE, as and when the situation becomes conducive. As the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic raged across the country a large section of students and political parties had campaigned for cancellation of the examination. At Tuesday’s meeting, officials made a detailed presentation on the wide and extensive consultation held so far and views received from all stakeholders, including state governments. Education Minister Ramesh Pohkriyal Nishank could not attend the meeting as he was admitted to AIIMS on Tuesday morning due to post-Covid-19 complications.   The prime minister stressed that the health and safety of the students were of utmost importance and there would be no compromise on this aspect. He said that in the present situation, such exams cannot be the reason to put our youth at risk. The meeting was attended by Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal, I&B Minister Prakash Javadekar, Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan, Women & Child Development Minister Smriti Irani among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-cisce-class-12-board-examinations-cancelled-due-to-covid-19-992576.html
01-06-2021||National||Bird tagged in Mumbai spotted in China||In a significant achievement in studying bird migration, a Curlew Sandpiper tagged in Mumbai has been spotted in the Tianjin province of China. The bird was tagged by the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS). The Curlew Sandpiper (Calidris ferruginea) is a small wader that generally breeds on the tundra of Arctic Siberia. It is strongly migratory, wintering mainly in Africa, but also in south and south-east Asia and in Australia and New Zealand.    The Curlew Sandpiper was first caught and tagged at a wetland behind T.S. Chanakya in Palm Beach Road at Nerul in Navi Mumbai on March 18, 2019, with unique Flag No. 7N5. Subsequently, the same bird was recaptured on January 13, 2020, at Bhandup Pumping Station in Mumbai. The bird was now resighted at Tianjin in China on May 6, 2021, during its northward migration to the breeding site. “Migratory birds wintering at Thane creek use the adjacent wetlands as their high-tide roosts. Remarkably these birds show high fidelity to their traditional feeding and roosting sites as it is evident from their frequent resightings at these wetlands in the same as well as subsequent migratory seasons. This signifies the importance of these habitats and the urgent need for their conservation,” BNHS Director Dr Bivash Pandav said. Through the earlier studies, gulls, terns, shorebirds and flamingos ringed in Central Asia, Persian Gulf, eastern Asia and along the islands in the Indian Ocean were recorded along the coast of Maharashtra.  “The bird tagged by Mrugank and his team was recited in the Tangu saltpans in Tianjin, China, near the shoreline. Tianjin province of China is the first record of international resighting of a waterbird tagged on the coasts of Mumbai and adjoining wetlands,” said Dr Pandav. Bird banding and ringing activities by BNHS are revealing fascinating insights into migratory birds – the political boundaries they cross, and the potential hurdles they conquer on the way. Bird ringing is a conventional study involving banding a bird with a lightweight metal ring, with a unique alpha-numeric code. In addition to the metal ring, BNHS is also using colour- flags, colour-bands and neck-collars on certain species. These colour combinations are in accordance with the international flyway protocols, so as to avoid redundancy in the combination. “BNHS is a veteran at bird ringing, and uses its wide citizen and ornithological network to track birds in other countries. Most tagged individuals are identified through high-resolution photographs,” he added. India is the current President of the Convention on Migratory Species and falls under the Central Asian Flyway, which mainly has North to South winter migration. Flyways refer to the paths bird follow in the sky. The country has recently launched a National Action Plan for the Central Asian Flyway and has a leadership role in protecting migratory birds and working with other countries along the flyway. A network of 29 sites comprising 20 major wetlands and nine wetland clusters have been identified as critical sites for migratory waterbirds under the CAF National Action Plan and are being surveyed by BNHS. The Forest Department frontline staff of these sites are being trained in the basics of bird migration, monitoring and bird ringing for better implementation of the management activities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bird-tagged-in-mumbai-spotted-in-china-992578.html
01-06-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: India records lowest one-day rise in cases in 54 days||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-india-records-lowest-one-day-rise-in-cases-in-54-days-992580.html
01-06-2021||National||DRDO issues directions on usage of anti-Covid drug 2-DG||The DRDO on Tuesday issued directions on the usage of its 2-DG drug on Covid-19 patients, stating that caution should be exercised while prescribing this medicine to people who have comorbidites such as uncontrolled diabetes, severe cardiac problem and acute respiratory distress syndrome. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) approved the 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG) drug for emergency use as an adjunct therapy in moderate to severe coronavirus patients in early May. The first batch of this oral drug, developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), was released on May 17 by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Health Minister Harsh Vardhan. On Tuesday, the DRDO on Twitter issued "directions for usage of this drug for Covid-19 patients as per DCGI approval".  "Ideally, 2DG should be prescribed as early as possible by doctors for moderate to severe Covid-19 patients for maximum duration up to 10 days," it mentioned. Uncontrolled diabetes, severe cardiac problem, acute respiratory distress syndrome, severe hepatic and renal impairment patients have not been studied yet with 2DG, hence caution should be exercised, it noted. "2DG should not be given to pregnant and lactating women and patients below 18 years," it stated. Patients or their attendants are advised to request their hospital to contact Dr Reddy's Laboratories (DRL) for medicine supply. The anti-Covid-19 therapeutic application of 2-DG drug has been developed by the Institute of Nuclear Medicine and Allied Sciences (INMAS), a leading laboratory of DRDO, in collaboration with DRL. The DRDO said the drug is approved for emergency use as adjunct therapy to the standard treatment of Covid-19 patients in the hospital settings.  The defence ministry on May 8 said that the clinical trials of 2-DG showed that it helps in faster recovery of hospitalised patients and reduces supplemental oxygen dependence. The approval of the drug has come at a time India has been grappling with a record-breaking wave of coronavirus pandemic that has stretched the country's healthcare infrastructure to its limit. The drug comes in powder form in sachet and is taken orally by dissolving it in water. In efficacy trends, the defence ministry said, patients treated with 2-DG showed faster symptomatic cure than the standard of care on various endpoints.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/drdo-issues-directions-on-usage-of-anti-covid-drug-2-dg-992582.html
01-06-2021||National||Debate over allopathy, ayurveda of no use, both systems useful: NITI Aayog||There is actually "no use" in debating over allopathy and ayurveda as both are different and useful medicine systems, renowned scientist and Niti Aayog Member V K Saraswat said on Tuesday even as he emphasised that more research needs to be done in ayurveda to ensure it is more acceptable to the society. Saraswat, who was associated in the development of an anti-Covid drug by DRDO, also made it clear that the drug does not have anything to do with Patanjali Ayurved, amid reports that the medicine is connected with the research done by Patanjali Ayurved. The Niti Aayog Member's remarks on allopathy and ayurveda comes against the backdrop of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) raising strong objections to yoga guru Ramdev's comments that questioned the efficacy of allopathic medicines in treating Covid infections. Ramdev also steers Patanjali Ayurved. In an interview to PTI, Saraswat said India had traditional medicine systems for thousands of years and that ayurvedic medicine has been responsible for improving the immunity of people. "I think ayurveda and allopathy, they are two streams of medicine and they survive together... one has a particular role and other has a different role," he said. Amid the ongoing debate in certain quarters over allopathy and ayurveda, he said, the debate "is actually of no use", adding that both the streams are useful. "My opinion is that the ayurvedic system of medicine should research more and more to bring (itself) at par in understanding of the scientific methods to become more acceptable by the society, which has been done in the allopathy," he emphasised. Last month, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan had called Ramdev's statement on allopathic medicines "extremely unfortunate" and had asked him to withdraw the remarks, saying it disrespects 'corona warriors' and can break the morale of healthcare workers. Later, Ramdev withdrew the remarks. When asked whether the anti-Covid drug 2-DG developed by the Defence and Research Development Organisation (DRDO) is connected with research done by Patanjali Ayurved, Saraswat replied in the negative. "It (2-DG) has nothing to do with Patanjali. Patanjali does not know anything about it. It is not their work," he pointed out. Saraswat, a former chief of DRDO, said he was the scientific advisor when that drug was developed. "When the drug was developed, it was basically for supporting the treatment of patients who suffer from radiation-induced cancer... for doing that cancer treatment we do radiation therapy," he explained. According to him, during a radiation process, not only the cancer cells die but also the healthy cells die, which results in collateral damage to the human body.  "So, we created this drug in such a manner because you know the cancer cells are hungry for energy, so they take energy from our body. Our body gives energy in the form of glucose. Instead of taking body sugar, we started injecting. This drug is like a glucose but actually it is not glucose, it does not have any energy," he said. Elaborating further, Saraswat said cancerous cells would absorb the drug and then become weak. Once they become weak, lower doses of radiation can be given to kill the cancerous cells and that will not be harmful for healthy cells, he added. According to Saraswat, the same theory is now being utilised for treating Covid infections. DRDO's 2-DG has been approved by the Drugs Controller General of India (DGCI) as an oral drug for emergency use as an adjunct therapy in moderate to severe coronavirus patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/debate-over-allopathy-ayurveda-of-no-use-both-systems-useful-niti-aayog-992585.html
01-06-2021||National||Congress demands HC-monitored probe into 'looting' of forest resources||The opposition Congress in Kerala on Tuesday demanded a High Court-monitored probe into the alleged looting of forest resources in Wayanad district, saying that the government was protecting those involved. Congress MLA, T Siddique, in a press meet here, alleged that the forest minister had held discussions with some people who were associated with the smugglers. "The government is protecting those who have been looting and smuggling of trees from the forest. The forest department is yet to take any action on the matter. We demand a high court-monitored probe," Siddique said. Congress leader P T Thomas, who also attended the press meet, said rosewood trees worth crores of Rupees were looted by smugglers. "Was the minister part of any conspiracy? Why was the Forest ministry, which was held by the CPI last term, taken over by NCP?" Thomas asked. The Congress leaders alleged that more than 20 rosewood trees were smuggled and the government was yet to take any action. They also alleged that those involved in the matter have over 40 cases registered against them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-demands-hc-monitored-probe-into-looting-of-forest-resources-992587.html
01-06-2021||National||Vaccine tenders: BMC starts scrutiny of documents||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation on Tuesday said it had started scrutiny of documents of nine of the ten entities which responded to a global Expression of Interest to supply one crore Covid-19 vaccine doses for Mumbai. A BMC release said seven of these nine entities, whose documents are being scrutinised, have shown interest in supplying Sputnik V vaccine, while two have elicited interest in providing Sputnik Light, a single dose vaccine. The ninth entity had said it was ready to supply whichever vaccine was available, the civic release said. The tenth firm has backed out of the EoI, the BMC further informed. The scrutiny of documents could take two to three days as it was important to "examine the business relationship between suppliers who are willing to supply vaccines and companies that actually produce vaccines", the BMC said. The focus during the scrutiny process would assurance of supply on time, the number of days in which the vaccine would be delivered, the quantity of vaccines and payment rates and terms, the civic body added. The metropolis' civic body had issued a global EoI on May 12 asking firms to respond within seven days, but after no one turned up, it had to extend this deadline further on May 18 and May 25.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vaccine-tenders-bmc-starts-scrutiny-of-documents-992592.html
01-06-2021||National||Goa govt calls Tejpal case verdict 'shocking' and 'biased'||The May 21 judgement by a Goa trial court acquitting former Tehelka editor-in-chief Tarun Tejpal is biased against the victim, the Goa government has said in its amended appeal to the Bombay High Court, claiming that the victim's "independent" background, her craft as a gender-issues writer and her knowledge about rape law, has led to the Court question her credibility. In a submission made on Tuesday to the High Court, which adds more grounds to beef up the appeal application, the Goa government also said that no CCTV footage was destroyed by the investigating officer in the case, as alleged in the judgement which acquits Tejpal from charges of rape levelled against him by a junior colleague. The Goa government's amended appeal states that the judgement is "shocking in its apparent legal bias against the prosecutrix when it suggests that it is unsafe to rely on her testimony as she is well educated, a good writer, proficient in English and above all, conversant with the rape law, and was 'a capable, intelligent, independent person'."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goa-govt-calls-tejpal-case-verdict-shocking-and-biased-992594.html
01-06-2021||National||'Deewar', 'Kabhi Kabhie' art director Marutirao Kale dies at 92 due to Covid-19 complications||Veteran art director Marutirao Kale, best known for his work on legendary actor Meena Kumari's "Pakeezah" and megastar Amitabh Bachchan-starrer "Deewar", has died of Covid-19 complications. He was 92. Kale had tested positive for novel coronavirus earlier this month following which he was admitted to Holy Family Multi speciality Hospital here in Bandra. The film industry veteran breathed his last on May 26, his daughter Meena Kapadia told PTI. "He had tested positive for Covid-19 on May 7 and was admitted to Holy Family hospital. He passed away on May 26," Kapadia said. Kale started his journey in movies over five decades ago as a carpenter and worked on K Asif's magnum opus "Mughal-e-Azam". He gradually shifted to art direction, serving as assistant art director on Sunil Dutt and Sadhana's "Mera Saaya", Manoj Kumar-starrer "Purab Aur Paschim" and "Roti Kapada Aur Makaan". His most notable films are Bachchan's "Deewaar", "Kabhi Kabhie", Mithun Chakraborty's "Disco Dancer" and "Dance Dance" and "Saudagar", featuring veteran stars Dilip Kumar and Raj Kumar. Kale is survived by his wife and three daughters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deewar-kabhi-kabhie-art-director-marutirao-kale-dies-at-92-due-to-covid-19-complications-992596.html
01-06-2021||National||AAP promises justice in 2015 sacrilege case if voted to power in Punjab||Aam Aadmi Party leader Harpal Singh Cheema on Tuesday said his party, if voted to power in Punjab during the 2022 Assembly elections, will bring those responsible for the desecration of Guru Granth Sahib to justice. AAP leaders led by Cheema, who is a legislator and Leader of Opposition in the Punjab Assembly, on Tuesday visited Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village here and paid obeisance at a gurdwara. Later, the AAP leaders went to Sarawan village and met the family of one of the youths who was killed in the police firing incident, according to a party statement. Cheema said it was unfortunate that it had been more than six years since two persons, demanding justice for the desecration of a religious text, were killed in the police firing, but no justice had been done so far. He said Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had taken an oath of 'Gutka Sahib' (religious book) before the 2017 Assembly elections while promising to take action against the perpetrators of the desecration of Guru Granth Sahib and subsequent police firing incidents in 2015. He alleged that the Chief Minister and the Badals were hand in glove with each other. The incidents of desecration of a religious text and subsequent police firing had taken place in Faridkot in 2015 when the SAD-BJP government was in power. A 'bir' (copy) of Guru Granth Sahib was stolen from a Burj Jawahar Singh Wala gurdwara in Faridkot on June 1, 2015. Thereafter, hand-written sacrilegious posters were put up in Bargari and Burj Jawahar Singh Wala on September 25 that year and then torn pages of the holy book were found at Bargari on October 12, 2015, in Faridkot. Two persons were killed in police firing at anti-sacrilege protesters at Behbal Kalan in 2015.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aap-promises-justice-in-2015-sacrilege-case-if-voted-to-power-in-punjab-992597.html
01-06-2021||National||CISCE cancels Class 12 Board exams due to Covid-19||The CISCE on Tuesday decided to cancel Class 12 board examinations this year in view of the Covid-19 situation, according to its secretary Gerry Arathoon. "The exams have been cancelled. The alternative assessment criteria will be announced soon," Arathoon told PTI. It was decided that the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) will take steps to compile the results of Class 12 students as per a well-defined objective criteria in a time-bound manner. The prime minister asserted that the decision has been taken in the interest of students and that the anxiety among students, parents, and teachers must be put to an end. The CICSE had last week asked its affiliated schools to submit data, including average of marks obtained by Class 12 students in Class 11 and during this session. The board had postponed Class 12 exams which were scheduled from May 4 in light of the devastating second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cisce-cancels-class-12-board-exams-due-to-covid-19-992601.html
01-06-2021||National||Dalit man assaulted for befriending girl from another caste||A 21-year-old Dalit man was allegedly beaten up and forced to wear a garland of shoes for befriending a girl from another caste in Madhya Pradesh's Jabalpur district, police said on Tuesday. A video of the incident also went viral. Four members of the girl's family were arrested on Monday after a complaint was registered, said City Superintendent of Police (CSP) Ravi Chouhan. The victim, resident of Bufwani village, was friends with a girl belonging to an OBC family and he had gifted her a mobile phone recently, the official said. When the girl's family learnt about this, they called the victim and his cousin on May 22. When the two reached her house, her family members allegedly beat up the victim and his cousin. They also forced the victim to wear a garland of shoes and tonsured his head partially, the official said. The accused shot a video of the incident which was circulated on social media, CSP Chouhan added. After the video went viral, the victim filed a complaint at Chargava police station last week, he said. A case under IPC sections 324 (assault), 506 (criminal intimidation) as well as the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act was registered and probe was on, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dalit-man-assaulted-for-befriending-girl-from-another-caste-992616.html
01-06-2021||National||HC issues notice to Centre, Gujarat govt over PIL seeking transparency in mucormycosis data||The Gujarat High Court on Tuesday issued a notice to the Central and state government over a PIL seeking direction that the data on mucormycosis cases and deaths be made public. The court of Justice Biren Vaishnav issued a notice to the state and Central governments in a PIL seeking transparency in the Gujarat government's reporting of the rising cases of mucormycosis or 'black fungus'. Based on the information gathered from media reports, families of patients and volunteers, the PIL claimed that the state government had "miscalculated and underreported the statistics about mucormycosis patients". The PIL, filed by Maitree Mazumdar and Khush Vachharajani, stated that the opacity surrounding the situation has led to an acute shortage of Amphotericin B, an injection used to treat the fungal infection. To make the process more transparent and accountable, the state government should make the information about the cases of mucormycosis free and available, it said. The plea sought "a standard procedure for dissemination of information" to ensure that the data regarding the disease remains freely available. The government should put out in the public domain an urgent count of cases in government and private hospitals, and information about patients who have not been admitted or are being treated at home, it said.    The plea sought a separate mechanism to monitor and make public mucormycosis deaths, and a real-time public dashboard displaying the availability of injections and beds to treat 'black fungus' cases at all nodal hospitals and other treatment facilities. The Centre's allocation of injections based on the number of mucormycosis cases in Gujarat is much lower and does not even cover the demand of the underreported figures, it said. The petitioners further said the treatment for the fungal infection is costly and complex, and is not affordable for economically weaker sections (EWS). Hence, a free treatment plan for EWS patients at private hospitals needs to be rolled out immediately, and the disease should be brought under the Ayushman Bharat-PMJAY scheme. The matter has been kept on June 15, to be heard along with a suo motu and other petitions on COVID-19 pandemic and related issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-issues-notice-to-centre-gujarat-govt-over-pil-seeking-transparency-in-mucormycosis-data-992630.html
01-06-2021||National||Unlock districts if 70% of vulnerable groups vaccinated, Centre’s advice||The states can consider lifting the lockdown-like restrictions in districts where 70 per cent of the vulnerable people – the 60 plus population and 45 plus individuals with comorbidities – received the vaccine and the test positivity rate is 5 per cent or lower, health officials said on Tuesday. They said the government was aiming for a one crore vaccination per day by August and hope to vaccinate India's entire target population by the end of 2021. The opening up of the states, said ICMR chief Balram Bhargava, should revolve around three pillars – (1) seven day test positivity rate of 5 per cent or less (2) 70 per cent vaccination of the vulnerable group and (3) community ownership of the Covid-appropriate behaviour. Currently, there are 350 districts – nearly half of India – where test positivity is less than 5 per cent. As many as 30 states and union territories – barring a few in the North East, Sikkim and Ladakh – reported a decline in active cases since last week. Bhargava said while an increase in testing and containment at the district level helped bring down the caseload, it would be unwise to rely on such factors in the long run as they were not a “sustainable solution.” Rejecting the claims of vaccine shortage, the Indian Council of Medical Research chief said there would be enough vaccines to inoculate one crore individuals daily by August. For comparison, 22.08 lakh doses were administered till 7 pm on June 1. "There is no shortage of vaccines. This (shortage) is what you feel if you want to vaccinate the country within a month. Our population is four times that of the USA. We need to have some patience. By mid-July, or early August, we'll have enough doses for one crore vaccination a day and by December, we hope to have the entire country vaccinated," he said. Bhargava echoed Union Minister Prakash Javadekar, who earlier had claimed that the entire country would receive the vaccine by December.  Their assertion comes weeks after NITI Ayog member and the government’s top Covi advisor V K Paul made a public presentation on how the Centre hoped to get 216 crore doses by December 2021 to vaccinate 95 crore Indians. Besides an increased supply of Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik-V, Paul said there would be 71 crore doses of five new vaccines. But all of these vaccines are undergoing trials and yet to receive regulatory clearance. Experts pointed out that even with an increased supply, vaccinating such a huge population is a daunting task considering the level of vaccine hesitancy prevalent in rural areas and smaller towns. “Daily average inoculations have now increased to 25 lakhs after reaching a low of 14 lakhs two weeks back. Till now 12.3 per cent population has been given single-dose and 3.2 per cent double dose. The government now had to administer 82 lakh doses per day as against the present 25 lakh to fully vaccinate all the 18 plus population by the year-end,” said Rijo John, an adjunct professor of health economics at the Rajagiri Institute of Social Sciences, Kochi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/unlock-districts-if-70-of-vulnerable-groups-vaccinated-centre-s-advice-992637.html
01-06-2021||National||9,346 children orphaned, abandoned or lost a parent to Covid-19, NCPCR tells SC||The National Commission of Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) told the Supreme Court on Tuesday that there are 9,346 children, who have been abandoned, orphaned or lost a parent to the Covid-19 pandemic as per the data submitted to it by different states till May 29. The Maharashtra government which filed a separate note before a bench of Justices L N Rao and Aniruddha Bose said that 4,451 children have lost one of their parent due to the pandemic and 141 children have lost both parents as per the data received from different areas till May 30. The NCPCR, in its affidavit filed through advocate Swarupama Chaturvedi, said states leading the chart like Uttar Pradesh has 2,110 such children, Bihar (1,327), Kerala (952) and Madhya Pradesh (712). The top court asked state government authorities to continue uploading the data on NCPCR’s website ‘Bal Swaraj’ till June 7 and furnish the details of the children affected by Covid-19. The top court has been hearing an application, in a pending suo motu case on spread of Covid-19 in children homes, filed by the amicus curiae highlighting the woes being faced by kids orphaned by the deadly virus. The NCPCR affidavit said that considering the surge of Covid-19, and consequently large number of deaths, it has become essential that additional efforts be made to ensure that the rights of children are protected.   It said first step is to identify the child in need and develop a mechanism for tracking each child who has been orphaned or has lost a parent to Covid-19 and may not have any financial support. “Therefore, every such child affected by COVID-19 and found to be in distress and without family support must be produced before the concerned Child Welfare Committee under Section 31 of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015”, it said. The Commission said it has devised the portal, 'Bal Swaraj' which is being used to collect data of such children. The NCPCR also flagged concerns that it has been receiving many complaints alleging that private individuals and organizations are involved in data collection of such children stating that they want to provide assistance to the orphaned children, but are giving away them to families in adoption without following the legal procedure. “In response to these complaints, the Commission took out an advisory dated May 2, 2021 to Chief Secretaries of all States/UTs informing about the growing problem of illegal adoption during the second surge of COVID-19 and advising to produce the children before the Child Welfare Committees, so that necessary action can be taken in the best interest of those children”, it said. The NCPCR further said that it had also been receiving complaints of disclosure of children’s (children who have lost both or either of the parent to COVID-19) information by government authorities to private NGO’s and organizations which was observed to be in violation of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015. “The Commission has been taking cognizance of these complaints under Section 13(1)(j) of the CPCR Act, 2005 and asking the State Government and law enforcement authorities to take necessary actions. A letter informing about these complaints was also issued to Chief Secretaries of all States/UTs on May 26, 2021, to look into this matter and ensure that no information of any child is disclosed with any person/ entity/ organization,” it said. The NCPCR highlighted various steps taken by it during the pandemic to ensure the welfare and well-being of the child.   It said its online tracking portal “Bal Swaraj” has been created for a digital real time monitoring mechanism of children who are in need of care and protection. “That the Commission has also launched “SAMVEDNA” a tele-counselling service for children in COVID times. It provides support to children under stress or trauma because they are in Quarantine, or whose parents are in quarantine, or who has lost any family/ parent/ relative/ near or dear one in a pandemic due to COVID-19,” the commission said. The NCPCR said that it has also recommended State Governments to proactively review the status of preventive steps already taken by the States/ UTs in the light of second surge of COVID-19 pandemic to ensure safety of children staying in Child Care Institutions”, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/9346-children-orphaned-abandoned-or-lost-a-parent-to-covid-19-ncpcr-tells-sc-992642.html
01-06-2021||National||Multi-agency team in Dominica to bring back Choksi if courts allow deportation||A team of multi-agency officials led by a CBI DIG has gone to Dominica to bring back absconding diamantaire Mehul Choksi to India if the courts in the Caribbean island country allow his deportation to India, officials said Tuesday.  The team consisting of two members of the CBI and officials of the other agencies has reached Dominica where Choksi's case will come for hearing tomorrow (local time) before the High Court of Dominica.  Choksi, who mysteriously went missing on May 23 from Antigua and Barbuda where he has been staying since 2018 as a citizen was detained in neighbouring Dominica for illegal entry after a possible romantic escapade with his rumoured girlfriend. His lawyers alleged that he was kidnapped from Jolly Harbour in Antigua by policemen looking like Antiguan and Indian and brought to Dominica on a boat. His pictures emerged from Dominca having red swollen eyes and body marks. The Dominican government had issued a statement that it is ascertaining the status of his citizenship with Antigua and once confirmed, he would be deported there. Antigua and Barbuda Prime Minister Gaston Browne had said Dominica and law enforcement agencies, unless the court rules otherwise, can deport him to India because he is an Indian citizen, Antigua News Room reported. "The problem is if he is sent back to Antigua because he is an Antiguan citizen, even though his citizenship is unsettled, he still enjoys constitutional and legal protections as a citizen. We have no doubt that his citizenship will ultimately be revoked because he did not disclose material of information," he said. Spotting a window of opportunity in the arrest of Choksi in Dominica where he was "detained" for illegal entry, India dispatched a jet with documents related to cases against Choksy which landed at Douglas Charles Airport in Dominica on May 28. The team of officers are in Dominica to bring back Choksi and coordinate with the local prosecutors to put forward its best case before the high court. The team is arguing that Choksi continues to be an Indian citizen with an Interpol Red Notice against him. Browne has also said that his citizenship is under contest in court as Choksi had not revealed complete information about him. Choksi and his nephew Nirav Modi had fled India in the first week of January 2018 weeks before Rs 13,500 crore scam in Punjab National Bank rocked Indian banking industry. The duo allegedly bribed the officials of state run bank to get Letters of Undertaking (LoUs) on the basis of which they availed from overseas banks which remained unpaid. The alleged corrupt officials did not enter these LoUs in the core banking software of the PNB thus evading any scrutiny. The non payment of these LoUs or bank guarantees worth Rs 13500 crore resulted in default and became a liability on bank. Modi escaped to Europe and was finally held in London where he is contesting his extradition to India while Choksi took citizenship of Antigua and Barbuda in 2017 where he had been staying since his escape from Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/multi-agency-team-in-dominica-to-bring-back-choksi-if-courts-allow-deportation-992643.html
01-06-2021||National||Covid-19 restrictions eased from Tuesday in MP's Indore||Curfew restrictions in Indore in Madhya Pradesh, the state's worst coronavirus-hit district, were eased on Tuesday, though marriage functions were banned for a period of 15 days, officials said. An order from the collector allowed industrial activities to resume, while grocery shops have been given a time segment of 8am to noon to operate on weekdays. A maximum of 10 people will be allowed to attend funerals, the order said, adding that all social, political, religious functions are prohibited in view of the pandemic. 'Janata curfew' will continue to be in force in the district on Saturdays and Sunday, when only essential services will be allowed. Janata curfew was first imposed on April 20 in the district, which has a Covid-19 caseload of 1,50,178, including 1,343 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-restrictions-eased-from-tuesday-in-mps-indore-992645.html
01-06-2021||National||Marriage is sacramental, not a contract: HC||A husband and wife must realise 'ego' and 'intolerance' are like footwear and should be left out of their house when they enter. Else, their children will have to face a miserable life, the Madras High Court has warned young couples. Justice S Vaidyanathan also reminded youngsters that marriage is not a contract, but a sacramental one. The judge, however, regretted the word 'sacrament' has no meaning after the coming into effect of the Domestic Violence Act in 2005, which approved live-in-relationship. Unfortunately, there was no provision like the Domestic Violence Act to proceed against the wife by the husband for lodging a false complaint, the judge noted. The judge made the observations while allowing a petition from Dr P Sasikumar, challenging an order dated February 18, 2020, of the Director of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Sciences, removing him from service and to reinstate him with all attendant benefits. According to Sasikumar, he was removed from service on the ground that he was involved in a domestic issue on the basis of the complaint lodged by his erstwhile wife. The ex-wife had initiated divorce proceedings against the petitioner under the Domestic Violence Act before the Judicial Magistrate-cum-Additional Mahila Court in Salem. The petitioner had also filed a similar petition before the First Additional Sub Judge, Salem. The divorce petition filed by the petitioner on the ground of alleged cruelty and voluntary desertion by the wife was accepted by the Family Court and it had become final. At the time of awaiting verdict, the wife had lodged the complaint against the petitioner. Based on this, Sasikumar was removed from service. Hence, the present petition. The judge said as the family issue had already been dissolved by means of an order dated February 19 last year by the Family Court, the question of taking penal action by the department against the petitioner does not arise, more so, when there is a finding of cruelty and voluntary desertion by the wife. It appears that only to harass the petitioner, the present complaint has been lodged by the wife. It appears that the wife had unnecessarily harassed the petitioner. Unfortunately, there was no provision like the Domestic Violence Act, to proceed against the wife by the husband. The complaint was given just four days prior to grant of divorce by the Family Court, which itself clearly showed that the wife had anticipated divorce and hence, created unnecessary trouble to the petitioner, the judge said. The judge set aside the removal order and directed the department to reinstate him within 15 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/marriage-is-sacramental-not-a-contract-hc-992646.html
01-06-2021||National||Ramdev irreparably damaged govt's efforts to contain Covid: IMA||Yoga guru Ramdev has "irreparably" damaged the government's efforts to contain the Covid-19 pandemic and people creating confusion during such a time are "anti-national", the Indian Medical Association (IMA) said on Tuesday. The doctors’ body in an open letter to citizens, also alleged that Ramdev thought it fit to launch his tirade against national Covid treatment protocols and the vaccination programme to look for an opportunity to "market" his products. Ramdev has "irreparably damaged the Indian government's efforts to contain the pandemic", the IMA said. "People creating confusion during an epidemic regarding national treatment protocols and the national vaccination programme are traitors and anti-nationals. They are anti-people and anti-humanity. They deserve no mercy," it said. The IMA has extended support to the black ribbon protest called by the Federation of Resident Doctors Associations (FORDA), and other medical and resident doctors’ associations of the country against Ramdev. The IMA said modern medicine is at the frontline of the fight against the pandemic and 1,300 doctors have sacrificed their lives for the nation. Starting from medical students and resident doctors to critical care and emergency care physicians, every single doctor has been deployed in the defence of the people, it said in the letter. "Creating confusion in the minds of the people against the national Covid protocols and national vaccination programme is an anti-national act of heinous proportions. The IMA has demanded to deem it as sedition and prosecute him (Ramdev) under the Disaster Management Act," the association said. "His calling modern medicine a stupid science is a totally different criminal act. Inaction from the government would seriously hurt the doctors who are fighting the pandemic," it said in the letter. Patanjali Yogpeeth Trust on May 22 denied allegations by the IMA that the yoga guru has misled people by making "unlearned" statements against allopathy and defamed scientific modern medicine Citing a video circulating on social media, the IMA had said Ramdev is seen saying that "allopathy ek aisi stupid aur diwalilya science hai... (allopathy is such a stupid science)" Ramdev has "utmost regards" for doctors and support staff who have been working day and night during such a challenging time of the pandemic, the Haridwar-based Patanjali Yogpeeth Trust had said in a statement. "Swami jee has no ill-will against modern science and good practitioners of modern medicine. What is being attributed against him is false and nugatory," the statement signed by Patanjali Yogpeeth Trust General Secretary Acharya Balakrishna had said. Ramdev later withdrew his statement on allopathy after a strong worded letter from Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan. Alleging that Ramdev's supporters have attempted "diversionary tactics of malicious attacks" on the IMA and its national president, the doctors' body said nothing will deviate it from its resolve to nail "this anti-national". The IMA's activities are within the four corners of the law, it said. "The total number of Covid-19 patients in the country so far is 2.78 crores and 2.54 crores have recovered. Our case fatality rate remains 1.16 per cent. Even with the limitations of official statistics it can be seen that Indian doctors, nurses and health care workers have fought tirelessly,” it said. “Countless children and family members of doctors have been infected. To trivialise these martyrs and the warriors is a sacrilege. IMA beholds to the nation to draw its own conclusions. History will record the services of its doctors. Posterity will also name the criminals," the IMA said in its letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ramdev-irreparably-damaged-govts-efforts-to-contain-covid-ima-992647.html
01-06-2021||National||Centre plans to augment paediatric Covid-19 facilities||The Union government on Tuesday said it planned to augment the paediatric Covid facilities by 2-3 times in order to prepare for the future even though only 2-3% Covid-19 affected children may need hospital care. A national level expert group had been formed to look into various issues related to paediatric Covid care and its recommendations were expected soon, V K Paul, NITI Aayog member and a former professor of paediatrics at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, here said at a press conference. "The focus on child Covid care is gaining attention. The paediatric population is generally asymptomatic, but the situation can change depending on the virus behaviour and epidemiological dynamics. Only 2-3% (Covid-19 affected) children may need hospital care but our preparedness should be 2-3 times more.” Over the past few weeks, several experts have voiced their concerns on the vulnerability of kids in case of a large third wave hitting India within a few months because a sizable chunk of the adult population would be vaccinated by then, leaving the kids as the happy hunting ground for the SARS-CoV-2. However, the Indian Academy of Paediatrics has rejected such a fear. "Children are as susceptible as adults and older individuals to develop infection but not severe disease. It is highly unlikely that the third wave will predominantly or exclusively affect children,” the IAP had stated.  While assuring that children have a low probability of developing a serious disease, Paul said, "We reassure you that the needs of the paediatric population will be arranged and no gaps will be left. We will do an audit of what is required and would be required in the worst-case scenario and be put into action." Flagging the multi-system inflammatory syndrome cases that were being reported in Covid-19 infected children, the veteran child specialist said while such cases presented an "emergency situation", there were treatments available. “The impacts of Covid-19 on children are not fully understood, yet the increasing number of cases among this population is a matter of serious concern," commented Poonam Muttreja, executive director, Population Foundation of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-plans-to-augment-paediatric-covid-19-facilities-992650.html
01-06-2021||National||Out to catch crabs, woman dragged away by tiger in Sunderbans||A 40-year-old woman was dragged away by a tiger into the forest in West Bengal's South 24 Parganas district on Tuesday when she was out with her husband to catch crabs, officials said. Bhagabati Mondal, a resident of Chargheri in Gosaba in the Sunderbans, went to catch crabs at nearby Kalichak forest early morning, they said. She was with her husband Atin Mondal and neighbour Sabita Mondal. Around 7.30 am, a tiger jumped on Bhagabati and took her away to the forest, officials said. The other two couldn't save her and came back to the village, they said. Forest officials along with villagers were trying to recover her body. She is survived by her husband and two daughters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/out-to-catch-crabs-woman-dragged-away-by-tiger-in-sunderbans-992651.html
01-06-2021||National||Congress CMs protest exclusion from GST waiver panel||Congress chief ministers Ashok Gehlot and Bhupesh Baghel on Tuesday accused the Centre of attempting to keep the main opposition party away from a ministerial panel to examine the issue of GST exemption for Covid-19 relief material. The Group of Ministers was constituted after a meeting of the GST Council last week and has Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad Sangma as the convenor. Ministers of Gujarat, Maharashtra, Goa, Kerala, Odisha, Telangana and Uttar Pradesh are members of the GoM. “A deliberate attempt has been made to keep the principal Opposition party, the Congress, that has three members in the GST Council, out of the GoM,” Rajasthan Chief Minister Gehlot said. He said the ministers of West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Punjab, Rajasthan, and Tamil Nadu had taken a stand contrary to the agenda of the GST Council and none of them have been included in the GoM. Baghel, the Chhattisgarh Chief Minister, said the exclusion of ministers from Congress-ruled states was against the spirit of cooperative federalism. He said that ministers of Congress-ruled states, who are part of the GST Council, should have been included in the GoM formed to discuss the issue of exempting or slashing GST on Covid-19 essentials like vaccines, drugs, PPE kits and oxygen-related equipment. Gehlot urged the GoM members to reflect on the exclusion of the Congress ministers and take into account their demand for Zero Tax Rate for Covid related supplies in public interest. Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal has vocal about demanding a greater say for the opposition-ruled states in the GST Council and insisting on appointing a Vice Chairman to the Council from amongst them. West Bengal Finance Minister Amit Mitra, who also does not find a place in the GoM, had convened a virtual meeting of opposition ruled states to prepare a joint strategy for the May 28 meeting of the GST Council.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-cms-protest-exclusion-from-gst-waiver-panel-992655.html
01-06-2021||National||Gritty 8-year-old girl foils rape bid by Army jawan in train, helps cops nab him||Showing extraordinary courage, an eight-year-old daughter of an ex-serviceman not only fought back a 33-year-old Army jawan who tried to sexually assault her in a toilet of a moving train in Maharashtra in the early hours of Tuesday and threw her on tracks but also helped the police nab him by providing his description. The alleged incident occurred on the Goa-Nizamuddin Express between Lonand and Salpa railway stations in Satara district in western Maharashtra, a senior officer said. "The girl, a daughter of an ex-serviceman, was travelling to Delhi with her mother, father, sister and brother," said Sadanand Wayse Patil, Superintendent of Police (Pune division), Government Railway Police (GRP). The accused, later identified as Prabhu Malappa Uphar, allegedly picked up the girl while she was fast asleep on her berth and took her to the toilet, he said. While the accused tried to sexually assault her, the girl woke up and resisted his advances and started shouting, the SP said. The accused then told the girl that he was taking her back to her parents, but after coming out of the toilet, he pushed her down the moving train. "Fortunately, the train was moving slowly due to the ghat section due to which the girl sustained less grievous injuries. On Tuesday morning, some locals spotted her lying on the railway tracks and took her to a hospital," said Wayse- Patil.   At the hospital, the girl not only narrated the ordeal but also provided the description of the jawan man to the police which proved crucial. "We then launched a search operation in the train and ordered that no one should get down from the train. At least 400 police and GRP constables boarded the train at various stations to ensure that the accused does not flee," he said. During the search, police identified at least 30 passengers whose description matched with the suspect. "We short-listed four suspects out of the 30 and finally identified Uphar. He was apprehended when the train was near Bhusaval in north Maharashtra," the officer said. The girl, who sustained injuries on her legs and under the chin, was later reunited with her family. Uphar is a jawan of Naik rank and posted at Jhansi in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gritty-8-year-old-girl-foils-rape-bid-by-army-jawan-in-train-helps-cops-nab-him-992656.html
01-06-2021||National||Covid impact may increase in children if virus changes behaviour, says Centre||The government on Tuesday cautioned that even though the coronavirus infection has not taken a serious shape among children till now, its impact can increase among them if there is a change in virus behaviour or epidemiology dynamics, and said preparations are on to deal with any such situation. "We reassure you that the needs of the paediatric population will be arranged and no gaps will be left," NITI Aayog Member (Health) V K Paul said, adding "we will do an audit of what is required and would be required in the worst-case scenario and be put into action." Addressing a press conference, Paul said multi-system inflammatory syndrome (MIS-C) has been seen post-Covid among children and a national group has been formed to look into the pediatric complications related to the infection. Paul said the children are generally asymptomatic or symptoms are minimal. "Even if they get infected, it does not take a serious shape and hospitalisation is rarely required. "But this situation in the paediatric population can change if the virus changes its behaviour or if there are changes in epidemiology dynamics, so then it can happen that COVID impact can increase in children," he said. In children, two forms of Covid are seen, he said. One is that the child gets a fever, then cough and cold. This translates to pneumonia which increases and deteriorates and the child gets hospitalised, he said. "It was also seen that after Covid gets cured, after 2-6 weeks in some children again fever and rash comes and eyes get inflamed and diarrhoea, vomiting and bleeding tendency is seen... this syndrome is called multi-system inflammatory syndrome," Paul said. This is post-Covid and is a unique disease seen among children. Guidelines have been established for understanding its development, he said. "Multi-system inflammatory syndrome does not have a difficult treatment but it must be timely," Paul added. Paul said that 2-3 percent of children infected with Covid might need hospitalisation. "We have looked into scientific developments in the matter systematically and the data we have shows that admission of children in large Covid facilities is very small. It has not happened till now that paediatric infrastructure was unusually burdened with cases," he added. But keeping in view all kinds of scenarios, Paul said a national group has been formed to look into it. "In short, we are happy to report to you that we are working very systematically and comprehensively to address the problem of paediatric Covid disease now as well as into the future and we will strengthen our facilities as required," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-impact-may-increase-in-children-if-virus-changes-behaviour-says-centre-992662.html
01-06-2021||National||No changes in implementation of contracts on supplying S-400 missile system to India: Lavrov||Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov on Tuesday assured India that there was no change in the implementation of the contracts on supplying the sophisticated S-400 anti-aircraft surface-to-air missile system to the country. His comments came weeks after the Russian state arms exporter Rosoboronexport CEO Alexander Mikheyev said that India will receive the first batch of the sophisticated S-400 missile system from Russia in October-December this year. "I would like to mention the implementation of the contracts on supplying S-400 systems to India. We see no changes regarding that and the Indian authorities have confirmed their adherence to these agreements," Lavrov said in response to a question during a press conference after the BRICS Foreign Ministers’ virtual meeting hosted by External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar. In October 2018, India had signed a USD 5 billion deal with Russia to buy five units of the S-400 air defence missile systems, notwithstanding warning from the then Trump administration that going ahead with the contract may trigger US sanctions under CAATSA. The S-400 is known as Russia's most advanced long-range surface-to-air missile defence system. The 'Triumf' interceptor-based missile system can destroy incoming hostile aircraft, missiles and even drones at ranges of up to 400 km. Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act or CAATSA is a tough US law which authorizes the administration to impose sanctions on countries that purchase major defence hardware from Russia in response to Russia’s annexation of Crimea in 2014 and its alleged meddling in the 2016 US presidential elections. In 2019, India made the first tranche of payment of around USD 800 million to Russia for the missile systems. In December, Russia had said that implementation of its ongoing defence deals with India including the supply of a batch of S-400 missile systems is advancing well notwithstanding the threat of US sanctions. “As for our cooperation with India, economically, politically and from the humanitarian sphere, in the military area and in health care, all kinds of cooperation, collaboration we developed gradually and according to the agreement reached at the highest level," Lavrov said on Tuesday. "Literally today, we have sent a new batch of Sputnik-V vaccine in addition to large-scale steps to help to support India in this situation they found themselves due to the coronavirus pandemic,” the top Russian diplomat said. He also expressed Russia's gratitude to India as the chairman in this year’s BRICS. During the BRICS Foreign Ministers’ meeting, Lavrov called on his counterparts from the five-nation bloc to come up with a joint signal to the world in favour of strengthening and reforming the multilateral system. "Our association plays one of the leading roles in settling global problems today. It is an example of real multiversity- inclusive, universal and non-discriminatory," he was quoted as saying by Russia’s TASS news agency at the online meeting of the BRICS foreign ministers. "In this context, we support the initiative of our Indian friends who called on the BRICS foreign ministers to send a strong common signal to the world in favour of strengthening and reforming the multilateral system on the bedrock basis of international law, on the basis of the generally-recognized central role of the United Nations as the most universal and inclusive organization, in global affairs. And the unanimous voice of BRICS is highly relevant," he said. On the issue of fighting terrorism, Lavrov said, "This area is actively developing within BRICS. Its priority goals are specified in the anti-terrorism strategy of "the five" approved last year. We are in favour of expanding the potential of the anti-terrorism working group that was established. There are several topical subgroups within it." The Russian top diplomat also noted that negative tendencies have surfaced in international relations amid the pandemic, with an increased potential for conflict and heightened risks of the collapse of the strategic stability system. "National egoism, unscrupulousness in the choice of means to win global dominance, ignoring the interests of other countries undermine the foundation of the post-World War II multilateral system, which rests on international law. I mean the United Nations Charter rather than the rules our Western colleagues keep on inventing," he said, adding that more and more new challenges are facing the world community.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-changes-in-implementation-of-contracts-on-supplying-s-400-missile-system-to-india-lavrov-992664.html
01-06-2021||National||Plea in SC raises issue of death of scribes due to Covid||An application has been filed in the Supreme Court raising the issue of death of several journalists across the country due to Covid-19 and seeking directions to ensure that proper treatment is provided to them and their family members. It has sought to recognise all journalists and media persons as ‘frontline warriors’ so that they can avail benefits being extended to all such workers. The application filed by Kota Neelima, who is the Director of Institute of Perception Studies and its media initiative ‘Rate the Debate’, has sought to intervene in the ongoing suo motu case related to distribution of essential supplies and services during the Covid-19 pandemic. It said that since April last year, the institute has been conducting research into the deaths of journalists due to Covid-19 and has found “stark data” on the lack of medical facilities for scribes. “There have been 253 deaths of journalists due to Covid-19 which have been verified and 93 death which are unverified between April 1, 2020 to May 19, 2021. The said list is not exhaustive. On an average, four deaths of journalists have taken place between April 1, 2020, to May 19, 2021,” said the application, settled by senior advocate Salman Khurshid. The application has sought the apex court’s direction to the government to provide free treatment to journalists in private as well as government hospitals during the pandemic and also for reimbursement of their bills. The plea, filed through advocate Lubna Naaz, said the Central government has launched special drive under Journalist Welfare Scheme (JWS) to help immediate families of those scribes who have died due to Covid-19. “The requirement of accreditation, which is a pre-requisite to obtain benefits under the scheme, has proved to be the largest obstacle for the journalists to avail the same,” it said. “The government may be directed that differentiation between the accredited and non-accredited journalists, employed and freelance, rural and urban, technicians and assistance be removed for the purpose of all the schemes being provided so that it is more inclusive,” it said. The application said the apex court may formulate a comprehensive guideline regarding medical facilities and related benefits to be extended to journalists for Covid-19 which would be implemented by all the states and Union Territories in a uniform manner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-in-sc-raises-issue-of-death-of-scribes-due-to-covid-992672.html
01-06-2021||National||You can now update vaccination status on Aarogya Setu app||Individuals can now voluntarily update their vaccination status on Aarogya Setu mobile app through a self-assessment process and the facility will make it easier to check the vaccination status for travel purposes, according to the government. The Ministry of IT and Electronics on Tuesday said all Aarogya Setu users will get the option to "Update the Vaccination Status" if they have not taken the revised self-assessment in the updated version of the app. "Aarogya Setu has rolled out a feature to update vaccination status on the Aarogya Setu app," the Ministry said in a statement. Those who have got the single dose of the vaccine will get a single blue border with vaccination status on their home screen along with Aarogya Setu logo with a single tick. A 'Blue Shield' with double tick will appear on the app for those who are fully vaccinated, after 14 days of the second dose. This double tick will appear after verification of vaccination status from the CoWIN portal.  Vaccination status can be updated through the mobile number used for CoWIN registration. "On taking the self-assessment on Aarogya Setu, those users who have taken at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine will get the tab of 'partially vaccination/vaccinated (unverified)' on the home screen of Aarogya Setu. "This is based on the declaration of vaccination status given by the user during the self-assessment. The unverified status becomes verified after an OTP based check from the CoWIN backend," the statement said. The home screen of Aarogya Setu will read "You are vaccinated" after 14 days of the second dose. "This would make easy checking of vaccination status possible for travel and access to various premises," it said. Over 19 crore people in India are using Aarogya Setu app.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/you-can-now-update-vaccination-status-on-aarogya-setu-app-992679.html
01-06-2021||National||Centre allocates around Rs 7,000 crore to West Bengal under Jal Jeevan Mission: Ministry||The Centre has allocated nearly Rs 7,000 crore to West Bengal for the implementation of the Jal Jeevan Mission in 2021-22 in a four-fold rise from last year's budget, the Jal Shakti Ministry said on Tuesday. The central allocation for 2019-20 was Rs 995.33 crore and was increased to Rs 1,614.18 crore in 2020-21, the ministry said. "Due to slow implementation and resultant poor utilisation of funds, the state could not draw the full allocated amount. Now, the state has planned to implement Jal Jeevan Mission with speed to provide tap water connections to 43.10 lakh rural homes in 2020-21 and 52.74 lakh FHTCs (functional household tap connections) in 2022-23 and 2023-24,” the ministry said. To achieve these desirable targets, the state has to speed up the implementation by four-fold, the ministry stressed. “To provide every household with assured tap water supply on a regular and long-term basis, the Central Government allocated Rs 6,998.97 crore grant to West Bengal under Jal Jeevan Mission for the year 2021-22,” the ministry said. Unhappy over the pace of work under the Jal Jeevan Mission in West Bengal, the Jal Shakti Ministry said the state has shown “dismal performance” in its implementation. Last month, the Centre had announced Rs 3,410 crore for Gujarat, Rs 5,117 crore for Madhya Pradesh and Rs 1,605 crore to eight northeastern states under the mission.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-allocates-around-rs-7000-crore-to-west-bengal-under-jal-jeevan-mission-ministry-992683.html
01-06-2021||National||Vice Admiral Ravneet Singh assumes charge as Deputy Chief of Naval Staff||Vice Admiral Ravneet Singh, who has commanded various frontline ships and naval air squadrons, assumed charged as Deputy Chief of Naval Staff on Tuesday, the Defence Ministry said. Singh relieves Vice Admiral M S Pawar who superannuated on May 31, it said in a statement. Singh, who specialises in aviation, has held various challenging command, staff and diplomatic assignments during his distinguished naval career and has had wide ranging experience onboard diverse platforms, the ministry said. On Tuesday, Vice Admiral Sreekumar Nair took over as the Director-General Naval Projects (DGNP), Visakhapatnam, from Vice Admiral Kiran Deshmukh. Nair has earlier served as Admiral Superintendent, Naval Dockyard, Visakhapatnam, and Assistant Chief of Materiel (Information Technology and Systems), at Integrated Headquarters, Ministry of Defence (Navy).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vice-admiral-ravneet-singh-assumes-charge-as-deputy-chief-of-naval-staff-992690.html
01-06-2021||National||Over 21.83 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine administered in India so far||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 21.83 crore, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday. It said 9,50,401 people in the age group of 18-44 years received their first dose and 15,467 their second dose of Covid-19 vaccine on Tuesday.  Cumulatively, 2,13,01,448 people across the country have received their first dose and 39,282 their second dose since the start of phase three of the vaccination drive, the ministry said.  Bihar, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal have administered to more than 10 lakh beneficiaries in the 18-44 years age group the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine, it said. The total of 21,83,58,591 includes 98,98,617 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken their first dose and 68,02,675 HCWs who have taken their second dose, and 1,57,54,583 frontline workers (FLWs) who have received their first dose and 85,54,588 FLWs who have received their second dose. The ministry said that of the total, 2,13,01,448 and 39,282 beneficiaries in the 18-44 years of age group have taken the first dose and second dose respectively.  Besides them, 6,71,54,837 and 1,08,57,683 beneficiaries aged 45 to 60 years have been administered the first dose and second dose respectively, while 5,91,30,042 and 1,88,64,836 beneficiaries above 60 years have taken the first and the second dose, respectively, it said. As on day-137 of the vaccination drive, total 22,08,941 vaccine doses were given, the ministry said.  It said 19,45,581 beneficiaries were vaccinated for the first dose and 2,63,360 beneficiaries received the second dose of vaccine, according to the provisional report till 7 pm. Final reports would be completed for the day by late night, the ministry said. The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from Covid-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, the ministry underlined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-2183-crore-doses-of-covid-19-vaccine-administered-in-india-so-far-992703.html
01-06-2021||National||BRICS joins India against blocking Covid-19 vaccine raw materials||China, Russia, South Africa and Brazil on Tuesday joined India in calling upon all nations to refrain from blocking flow of raw materials required to make anti-Covid-19 vaccines and drugs as well as other equipment required to contain the pandemic. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar chaired a virtual meeting of the BRICS (a bloc comprising Brazil, Russia, India, China, and South Africa) foreign ministers. They called for “exercise of due restraint in the implementation of measures that could hinder the flow of vaccines, health products and essential inputs”. The BRICS also extended its support to the proposal mooted by two members of the bloc – India and South Africa – at the World Trade Organization for a temporary patent waiver on the anti-Covid-19 vaccines and drugs. This is the first time that the five-nation-bloc formally backed the proposal, which also received support from the United States last month. The BRICS ministers noted that the current global challenges, particularly the Covid-19 pandemic, were a powerful reminder of the imperative to strengthen cooperation amongst the nations. They acknowledged the measures taken by the World Health Organization (WHO), governments, non-profit organisations, academia, business and industry in combating the pandemic. But they also noted their expectation that the international community would reform and strengthen policy responses of the WHO to fight the Covid-19 pandemic and other current and future health challenges. The BRICS ministers recognised the role of extensive immunisation against the Covid-19 as a global public good for health in preventing, containing and stopping transmission to bring the pandemic to an end and foster a rapid, inclusive, sustainable, and resilient recovery. They underlined the urgency for expeditious development and deployment of the Covid-19 vaccines, especially in developing countries, and called for further close cooperation between various stakeholders for a diversified vaccine portfolio.    The Biden Administration earlier this year invoked the US Defence Production Act (DPA) to impose restrictions on export of some raw materials required for production of the anti-Covid-19 vaccines. The move was aimed at ramping up production and increasing availability of the vaccines in the US. But it also slowed down production of the vaccines in India. The US, however, a few weeks ago eased the restrictions for export of some raw materials to India. The call by the BRICS foreign ministers on Tuesday for uninterrupted supply of vaccines and raw materials required to make vaccines was apparently intended to send out a tacit message to the US. The joint statement issued by Jaishankar, Sergey Lavrov of Russia, Wang Yi of China, Carlos Alberto Franco França of Brazil and Grace Naledi Mandisa Pandor of South Africa stressed the need to promote initiatives aimed at ensuring timely, affordable, and equitable access, as well as the distribution of diagnostics, therapeutics, medicines and vaccines, and essential health products and technologies, and their components, as well as equipment to combat Covid-19 pandemic and to support the achievement of universal health coverage including preventive measures and actions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/brics-joins-india-against-blocking-covid-19-vaccine-raw-materials-992704.html
01-06-2021||National Politics||Hum darte nahi: Mamata Banerjee invokes Tagore, Sholay, slams Centre in scathing attack||West Bengal has been enmeshed in fresh political controversy with the Central government. The drama that has been brewing since the election culminated when Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee did not attend the meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi when he came to the state in the aftermath of Cyclone Yaas. As jibes and harsh words were exchanged between Opposition parties and the BJP, the Department of Personnel and Training asked for the transfer of Chief Secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay back to the Centre despite an extension after his retirement on May 31. Banerjee, who has been calling out the BJP's attempts to create disquiet in her state, wrote a strongly-worded letter to the Prime Minister on Monday where she alleged that the PM-CM meeting became a political affair and that she did not 'skip' the meeting as alleged, but left with his permission. In a press conference on Monday, the West bengal Chief Minister reiterated that the transfer of Chief Secretary Bandopadhyay was an end to the federal structure and was done with zero consultation of the state, which is facing a double whammy of the coronavirus and Cyclone Yaas. Banerjee clearly said in the meeting that she would refrain from speaking in just Bengali as far as possible since national channels spin her words and ‘feed lies’ at times. Citing an example, she said lies were churned and spread about Alapan Bandyopadhyay staging a ‘walk out’ during the meet with Prime Minister Modi. “Political leaders walk out from time to time for obvious (political) reasons”, said Banerjee in Bengali. “However, a bureaucrat never stages a walk out. A law minister is saying misleading things about this.” She said the Centre had ‘political vendetta’ in mind while trying to transfer Bandyopadhyay. “Dilli ka laddo jo khaya wo pachhataaya, jo nahi khaya wo bhi pachhataaya”, she said, switching to Hindi. “Zyada kha aliya, isliye 7 saal mein zyada himmat badh gaya”. What she meant with her ladoo (popular Indian sweet) metaphor was that the Prime Minister has been enjoying too many ladoos or has been getting comfortable with his post for the last 7 years, hence, he has become over-zealous in his attempt to end India’s federal structure. However, not all states will accept such a thing, she stated. "Jo darte hain woh marte hain, jo ladte hain wohi jeet te hain. Hum darte nahi," the TMC supremo said, a reference from the iconic film Sholay. “I will request all the Chief Ministers and the chief secretary of the states, all the IAS and IPS officers and state cadres: please be united and stand high, fight the battle”, said the TMC chief, then proceeding to quote Tagore. “Where the mind is without fear and the head is held high – fight the battle like this”. Slamming the BJP government, she said they have failed completely - whether it comes to protecting citizens against the Covid-19 pandemic or to help the agriculture movement. The economy is in crisis because of the BJP, she added. BJP is behaving like the country is under their “martial law” and is not a democracy anymore, she said, comparing the Modi-government to that of Adolf Hilter and Stalin’s. “Not Tamil Nadu Stalin, my friends”, she clarified to the media saying that the BJP was clearly on a "political vendetta" against her state..||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/hum-darte-nahi-mamata-banerjee-invokes-tagore-sholay-slams-centre-in-scathing-attack-992419.html
01-06-2021||National Politics||Darkest year of the economy in four decades: Chidambaram on GDP numbers||As India’s economy contracted by 7.3% in 2020-21, Congress on Tuesday dubbed the last fiscal as the “the darkest year of the economy in four decades” that left most citizens poorer than they were two years ago. While former Congress President Rahul Gandhi described the adverse GDP and unemployment figures as “PM’s hall of shame – Minimum GDP, Maximum Unemployment’, former Finance Minister P Chidambaram asked the government to print money and increase spending to kick start the economy. “This is not the time to worry about the fiscal deficit. So what if the deficit widens to 6.5%? We can’t lose another year like we lost the last year. But the way the government is reacting, we are going to lose another year. My advice to the government is to act boldly and spend. Borrow or print money and spend,” Chidambaram told a press conference here. He slammed the Modi government for misleading the people with claims of “green shoots” of economic recovery and termed it a “false story” “FY2020/21 has been the darkest year of the economy in four decades. The performance in the four quarters tells the story. The first two quarters witnessed a recession (-24.4 and -7.4%). The performance in the third and fourth quarters did not herald a recovery,” Chidambaram said. The senior Congress leader also made a strong pitch for direct cash transfers to the needy and contended that the existing scheme of free ration was inadequate. “It translates to Rs 32 per head. More and more economists are supporting cash transfer to the needy,” Chidambaram said. He said industry bodies CII and FICCI have echoed the views of the Congress on cash transfers to the poor and fiscal expansion. Chidambaram said unemployment was growing and has now crossed 11%, labour force participation was declining and more and more people were falling below the poverty line. “All these are indicators that the economy is in dire straits...All this points to deep misery among the poor people,” the Congress leader said and accused the Modi government of being “completely insensitive” to what the lower middle class and the poor were facing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/darkest-year-of-the-economy-in-four-decades-chidambaram-on-gdp-numbers-992433.html
01-06-2021||National Politics||IUML approaches SC for stay on MHA order allowing citizenship to non-Muslims||The Indian Union Muslim League has approached the Supreme Court seeking a stay on May 28 order of Ministry of Home Affairs which allowed certain districts to grant citizenship to non-Muslim refugees from Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan. The application contended during the pendency of petitions related to validity of the Citizenship Amendment Act, 2019 before the top court, the MHA has gone ahead and issued the order which was "illegal". "If the court strikes down the Amendment Act and rules on providing citizenship on the basis of religion, then to take back the citizenship of these persons, granted pursuant to the present order, will be a herculean task and would be near impossible to implement," it contended. The petitioner-political party claimed that during the past hearing in the top court on the CAA, the Centre had given an assurance that staying of the new law was not necessary since the rules had not been framed. “However, the Union government, in a roundabout way, and in an attempt to circumvent the assurance given to this court, have sought to implement their mala fide designs envisaged under the Amendment Act through the recently issued order dated May 28," the plea alleged. The petitioner sought stay on any further proceedings pursuant to the May 28 order issue.  The plea claimed the Centre has illegally permitted the collectors of the chosen districts to grant citizenship to persons belonging to Hindus, Sikhs, Buddhists, Jains, Parsis and Christians.  "Furthermore, the order does not withstand the test of Article 14 (of the Constitution) inasmuch as it treats people within a particular class i e persons entitled to apply for citizenship by registration and naturalisation unequally by virtue of their religion," the application contended.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/iuml-approaches-sc-for-stay-on-mha-order-allowing-citizenship-to-non-muslims-992457.html
01-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi allows home delivery of liquor; take-away of draught beer from micro-breweries also permitted||Delhiites can soon order home delivery of liquor through a mobile application or a website, with the city government permitting such facility by issuing a notification, which also allows take-away of draught beer in bottles or growlers from the micro-breweries in the national capital. The rules, notified on Monday, permit the holders of the necessary licences to serve liquor in open spaces such as terraces, the courtyards of clubs, bars and restaurants, where customers will have the choice of getting alcohol in bottles. However, it will be the sole responsibility of such establishments to ensure that no customer takes the served bottles out of the licensed premises. The move will boost the government's revenue at a time when Delhi's economy is struggling in view of the Covid-induced lockdown that has been in place since April 19. According to the notification, the licensee will deliver liquor at the buyers' residences only if the orders are received through an app or a web portal. The Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies (CIABC) has welcomed the government's move to allow home delivery of liquor in the national capital. "This has been our consistent demand for long. Last month also, we had requested the government to allow home-delivery of liquor in Delhi. There are many states that have implemented this and there has been no adverse effect coming out of it," CIABC director general Vinod Giri told PTI. The notification issued by the Delhi finance department in the name of the Lieutenant Governor states that in hotels, no liquor will be served by the licensee at any place other than the room in which the person ordering it resides for the time being. The government also permitted the sale of medicated wine in the city, which is usually prepared by using wine as a solvent to soak out the effective components of herbs. "The licensee shall not sell any article covered by his licence except for medicinal purpose. The licensee shall not sell to any person at any one time any article covered by his licence in greater quantity than nine litres or 12 quart bottles, provided that sale in larger quantities may be made to persons holding a chemist's licence and to government and charitable dispensaries," the notification stated. The government also introduced a licence in the form of L-37 for hotel management institutes to keep liquor for the purpose of training. "The licence shall be issued to hotel management institutes or other teaching institutes recognised by the government. The liquor shall be used for teaching purpose only. The liquor shall be purchased from licensed retail vends only. The limit of liquor shall be decided by the excise commissioner," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-allows-home-delivery-of-liquor-take-away-of-draught-beer-from-micro-breweries-also-permitted-992372.html
01-06-2021||North and Central||UP CM directs serosurvey to understand prevalence of Covid-19 in urban, remote areas||In a bid to understand the prevalence of Covid-19 in the urban and remote areas of Uttar Pradesh, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has directed to conduct a "serosurvey" in the state. The serological survey will be launched on June 4 to help find the volume of immunity against the coronavirus being developed in the state's people, an official spokesperson said here on Tuesday. "The samples will be collected from June 4 and will enable an assessment of the updated status of the infection at different scales, including gender and age," the chief minister said. The survey involves testing the blood serum of a group of individuals to determine the presence of antibodies against the coronavirus. The report of the survey is expected to be released by the end of June. There are people who did not undergo RT-PCR tests and could be asymptomatic. In this situation, the serosurvey could be a significant step, the spokesperson said. With a recovery rate of around 97 per cent and a positivity rate of below one per cent in the state, the government has taken an initiative to run a vaccination campaign that will target one crore people in June. The campaign that started on Tuesday will focus on the beneficiaries of both age groups -- 18-44 as well as those above 45 years of age -- and will be conducted in all 75 districts of the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-cm-directs-serosurvey-to-understand-prevalence-of-covid-19-in-urban-remote-areas-992391.html
01-06-2021||North and Central||FORDA members begin 'black day' protest at Delhi hospitals over Ramdev's remarks||Upset over yoga guru Ramdev's remarks on allopathy, resident doctors at several hospitals in Delhi protested as part of a nationwide stir on Tuesday and sought an unconditional public apology or action under the Epidemic Diseases Act. Banded under the Federation of Resident Doctors Associations (FORDA), which had called for the protest on May 29 and stressed that healthcare services would not be hampered, the doctors wore black armbands, ribbons and held up placards. "Our protest began on Tuesday morning against the remarks made by Ramdev, who is not qualified to even speak on the discipline of allopathy. It had affected the morale of doctors, who are fighting day in and day out in the (Covid-19) pandemic. We demand an unconditional public apology from him or action against him under the Epidemic Diseases Act," a senior FORDA official said. FORDA India on Tuesday even changed its Twitter profile picture to a dark poster that said 'Black Day'. Many RDAs from outside Delhi put up posts on social media in solidarity with FORDA. The RDAs which have joined the stir are from AIIMS, Safdarjung Hospital, Lady Hardinge Medical College and Hospital, Hindu Rao Hospital, Sanjay Gandhi Memorial Hospital, B R Ambedkar Hospital and more will join later in the day, he said. "Many doctors are wearing black armbands or black ribbons to symbolise the protest," the FORDA official said, adding, "Doctors in other cities have also joining the stir." While some doctors held up placards bearing protest messages, others wearing PPE kits had "Black Day Protest" scribbled on the back of the medical gear. In a statement issued on Saturday, FORDA India had said even after raising objections to the statements made by Ramdev, "no action has been taken yet. We are hereby declaring Nationwide #BlackDayProtest on 1st June, 2021 at workplace, without hampering healthcare services". "We demand an unconditional open public apology from him or action against him under the relevant sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897," the statement had said. The FORDA has also alleged that Ramdev's remarks have added to the "vaccine hesitancy" among people. In a statement, the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) RDA said, such "slanderous remarks" by Ramdev will "incite violence against the healthcare services personnel and would lead to a total failure of public health systems." "However, we will ensure patient care would not be hampered in this process," it said. The AIIMS RDA also urged "competent authorities to take stringent action against Ramdev and to book him under relevant sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897" for allegedly 'trying to create public unrest against the vaccination drive, harassing healthcare services personnel and preventing them from discharging their duties and creating misconceptions in common public which could cost them their dear lives". Vaccination against Covid-19 is currently underway in the country. It started on January 16. Ramdev was recently forced to withdraw his remarks questioning some of the medicines being used to treat the coronavirus infection and that "lakhs have died from taking allopathic medicines for Covid-19", a video clip of which went viral. The remarks were met with vociferous protests, following which Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan asked him to withdraw the "extremely unfortunate" statement. A day later, the yoga guru posed 25 questions to the Indian Medical Association (IMA) in an "open letter" on his Twitter handle, asking if allopathy offered permanent relief from ailments. His remarks had irked the medical fraternity, upsetting both the IMA and the Delhi Medical Association (DMA).  RDA of RML Hospital extended its full support to FORDA too and its members protested without hampering patient care. During the ferocious first and second waves of the pandemic, all the Covid warriors including the doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, police personnel, media person etc have worked tirelessly day and night beyond their limits to serve the affected people, it said in a statement. "The vitriolic, disgraceful and derogatory statements" of Ramdev are equivalent to belittling the sacrifices made by the Covid warriors, many of whom have laid down their lives in the line of national duty, it said. "Secondly, his baseless, unscientific and illogical claims have potential to create a sense of fear and panic in the public and it may derail the government of India's vaccination campaign. Despite multiple representations, no action has yet been taken against him," the RDA said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/forda-members-begin-black-day-protest-at-delhi-hospitals-over-ramdevs-remarks-992409.html
01-06-2021||North and Central||Father kills two sons before shooting himself in J&K||In a heart wrenching incident, a man shot his two sons dead before killing himself in the hilly Doda district of Jammu and Kashmir on Monday night. Reports said Sunit Singh, a resident of Upper Gallo, Kahara in Doda shot himself dead before killing his two teenage sons Kamal Kant (class 9th student) and Chander Kant (class 11th student) with a 12 bore licenced gun. The reason behind the extreme step taken by Sunit Singh was not immediately known as the village is located in a far off inaccessible area about 11km from the motorable road. Sub Divisional Magistrate (SDM), Thathri, Athar Amin Zargar was quoted by a local daily as saying that the bodies of the slain were handed over to family members after completing legal and medical formalities for last rites.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/father-kills-two-sons-before-shooting-himself-in-jk-992410.html
01-06-2021||North and Central||SC stays Delhi HC's quashing of IGST on import of oxygen concentrators for personal use||The Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed the Delhi High Court May 21 order that quashed the Union government's decision to impose 12 per cent Integrated Goods and Service Tax (IGST) on import of oxygen concentrators for personal use as “unconstitutional”.  A bench presided over by Justice D Y Chandrachud, issued notice on a plea by the Union government questioning the validity of the High Court's decision. Attorney General K K Venugopal contended that the slab was already reduced from 28 to 12 per cent but still the High Court felt that the imposition of IGST violated right to life.  A decision was taken on May 28 at 43rd GST Council meeting to constitute a Council of Ministers so that 19 related items are exempted. He said the High Court entered into an area of policy as the exemption was based on distinct classification. The bench, also comprising Justice M R Shah, noted that Article 14 (right to equality) of the Constitution carried a reasonable classification. The court sought a response from the petitioner before the High Court and put the matter for consideration after four weeks. The High Court had passed the order on a plea by an 85-year-old Covid-19 patient, whose nephew had sent an oxygen generator as a gift from the United States. The High Court had said the importers of oxygen concentrators would have to furnish a letter of undertaking to the concerned authority, declaring that the device is for personal use, and not for commercial use. It was contended before the High Court that the imposition of IGST by the Finance Ministry on devices meant for personal use violated Article 14 and also abridged the right to have oxygen, which was part of the right to life under Article 21 of the Constitution.  The government counsel had argued that imposition of taxes could not be subject to judicial review, and IGST was imposed to maintain parity with a commercial user and to avoid black marketing and profiteering.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-stays-delhi-hcs-quashing-of-igst-on-import-of-oxygen-concentrators-for-personal-use-992437.html
01-06-2021||North and Central||Corona curfew relaxed in three more districts of Uttar Pradesh||The Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday relaxed the corona curfew in three more districts, making the relaxation applicable in 64 out of the 75 districts of the state. As part of the relaxations, shops and markets outside containment zones can open for five days a week. However, there will be no relaxation in Meerut, Lucknow, Saharanpur, Varanasi, Ghaziabad, Gorakhpur, Muzaffarnagar, Bareilly, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Bulandshahr and Jhansi districts where active cases are over 600. "The relaxations from corona curfew were announced on Sunday in 55 districts which has now been increased to 64. As with the latest report, active cases have come down below 600 in three more districts Lakhimpur, Ghazipur and Jaunpur and they will also be given relaxations from Wednesday 7 am," Additional Chief secretary, Information Navneet Sehgal said. The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath with senior officials. In 64 districts, shops and markets outside containment zones will be allowed to remain open from 7 am to 7 pm from Monday to Friday from June 1, he said. Eateries on highways and vendors will be allowed to operate, according to the statement. It also said that night curfew will remain in place from 7 pm to 7 am and weekend restrictions or corona curfew will be there on Saturday and Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/corona-curfew-relaxed-in-three-more-districts-of-uttar-pradesh-992455.html
01-06-2021||North and Central||Roll out urban job scheme, discourage wage deductions: NHRC to Centre, States||With the lockdowns during the second wave of Covid-19 leading to job loss and "severely" impacting informal and unorganised sector workers, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has urged the Centre and States to roll out an urban employment programme, increase wages and working days under MGNREGA and take steps to discourage wage deductions in the name of pandemic. The 'Advisory 2.0: Safeguarding rights of informal workers during second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic' issued by the NHRC on Monday wanted the States to notify against Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) imposing curbs on entry of domestic workers while leaving such decisions solely to the employer and domestic help. Acknowledging that the pandemic has left women economically vulnerable and their responsibilities of unpaid care work have multiplied, negatively affecting their labour force participation, it also urged the government to initiate a national campaign of sharing of work to reduce their burden of unpaid care work. Citing the Azim Premji University's 'State of Working India 2021: One year of Covid-19', the NHRC said 23 crore Indians have been pushed into poverty in the past one year and these are families primarily in the informal sector of over 50 crore Indians. It said other surveys also indicated high unemployment and wage losses among informal sector workers across different states. It noted that there are several specific groups of workers in the informal sector such as crematorium/burial ground workers, domestic workers, traditional artisans, gig workers and small enterprises among others who face additional vulnerabilities in the second wave. "Crematorium and burial ground workers have emerged as frontline workers as they deal with bodies affected by Covid-19. They are often found working without proper personal protective equipment. Domestic workers, who are still seen as potential carriers of the virus, face curbs on movements by RWAs which affects their livelihoods and pushes them to the fringes," the advisory said. It also referred to micro enterprises such as tea shops and barber shops getting shut due to lockdowns or lack of customers and these situations are "evidence of the levels of precarity" experienced by informal sector workers. Pushing for 'Shahari Rojgar Yojna', it said an urban employment programme would help mitigate distress in urban centres and it could entail works like construction, maintenance and upgradation of civic infrastructure, green jobs that include rejuvenation of degraded lands and cleaning of water bodies, care work in creches and elderly homes and Covid-19 related work to produce essential commodities such as PPEs. Echoing voices of the activists working with the rural population, the NHRC wanted the governments to revise daily wages under MGNREGA as per the inflation rate and Consumer Price Index, besides increasing working days to 200 days at least till March 31 next year. "In order to revive employment for informal workers and economy during the pandemic, the Union Ministry of Medium, Small and Micro Enterprises should consider a moratorium of loans outstanding on both interest and EMI component, additional pandemic emergency loans, extension of ongoing loan restructuring scheme beyond June and removal of foreclosure penalty levied by banks on prepayment of loans.    It suggested that frontline workers in the informal sectors like crematorium/burial ground workers, sanitation workers, domestic helps and mortuary workers be given PPEs. The government should also take steps for registering them under a specific Covid-19 or other health insurance schemes. The state governments also should take steps to register domestic workers in schemes like Rashtriya Swasthya Bhima Yojna.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/roll-out-urban-job-scheme-discourage-wage-deductions-nhrc-to-centre-states-992466.html
01-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi sees 623 new Covid cases, lowest since March 18; 62 deaths recorded||Delhi on Tuesday reported 623 fresh Covid-19 cases, the lowest in two and a half months, and 62 more deaths, while the positivity rate fell below one percent for the second consecutive day. This is the third day that the daily deaths in the city remained below 100. On April 12, the figure was 72. Delhi on Monday had reported 648 fresh Covid-19 cases and 86 more deaths, while the positivity rate fell was 0.99 percent. On Sunday, Delhi had recorded 946 Covid-19 cases and 78 deaths and the positivity rate stood at 1.25 percent, according to a health department bulletin. The fresh cases recorded on Tuesday are the lowest since March 18, when 607 people were diagnosed with the disease. The positivity rate is now 0.88 percent, it said. With the fresh cases and fatalities, the national capital's tally of cases stands at 14,26,863 and the death toll at 24,299, the bulletin stated. As the second wave of the Covid pandemic spread across the country, Delhi began witnessing a rise in daily cases and deaths from April 19. It had reported its highest single-day spike of 448 deaths on May 3. However, there is a declining trend in the number of cases and deaths over the last several days. The fatality rate in Delhi stands at 1.7 percent, the bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-sees-623-new-covid-cases-lowest-since-march-18-62-deaths-recorded-992495.html
01-06-2021||North and Central||Nearly half of Haryana's total Covid-19 deaths recorded in May||Nearly half of the number of Covid-linked fatalities in Haryana were recorded in May as the state also registered a sharp spike in the cases last month, state health department data showed. On April 30, 2021, Haryana had a total 4,216 Covid-19 deaths, which climbed to 8,303, as on May 31. During the same period, the virus count rose from 4,87,978 to 7,56,635. Gurugram, Faridabad and Hisar remained the districts hardest hit by the pandemic. Between April 30 and May 31, coronavirus-related fatalities in Gurugram increased from 476 to 813, while the number of cases in the district, which falls in the National Capital Region, rose from 1,22,948 to 1,79,960. In Faridabad district, the death toll from Covid-19 climbed from 512 to 708, while the infection count jumped from 72,768 to 98,945. In Hisar district, fatalities doubled from 440 to 870 while the infection tally went up from 29,755 to 52,966 between April 30 and May 31. The cumulative Covid positivity rate in the state went up from 6.63 per cent to 8.39 per cent while the fatality rate increased from 0.86 per cent to 1.10 per cent during the past one month. As on May 31, Nuh district had the lowest number of fatalities and Covid-19 cases in the state with 93 deaths and 4,862 infections, followed by Charkhi Dadri with 110 deaths and 4,915 cases. The number of active cases, which was around one lakh a month ago, has now come down to nearly 18,000 at present.  The Covid recovery rate improved from 79.14 per cent, as on April 30, to 96.45 per cent on May 31. The tests per million population increased from 2,91,694 to 3,57,014 while the vaccination coverage also increased during the period from April 30 to May 31 from 38,13274 doses to 57,12,100 doses being administered. To contain the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in Haryana, the state government had initially imposed a lockdown on May 3 for a week till May 10, which was later extended four times and is currently enforced till June 7. The state government has termed the lockdown "Mahamari Alert/Surkshit Haryana (Epidemic Alert/Safe Haryana)".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nearly-half-of-haryanas-total-covid-19-deaths-recorded-in-may-992509.html
01-06-2021||North and Central||Protesting J&K transporters decide to resume operations, seek meet with LG||Private transporters in Jammu and Kashmir have decided to resume operations from Wednesday after keeping their vehicles off the roads for the past 42 days in protest against the government's decision to cap the seating capacity at 50 per cent amid surging Covid-19 cases. However, they sought a meeting with Lt Governor Manoj Sinha to sort out their problems to bring the transport industry "back on track". The transporters claim they have suffered huge losses since August 2019 following revocation of special status to the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir and its bifurcation into the union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, besides the coronavirus-induced lockdown. The private transporters went on an indefinite strike on April 21 demanding a 50 per cent hike in fare to facilitate smooth operations with 50 per cent passengers on board. "We have taken a decision to cooperate with the government which has given us the permission to ply with 100 per cent capacity in some areas. It is not feasible for the transporters to resume operations with 50 per cent seating capacity as the fuel prices are skyrocketing and the industry is on the receiving end since August 5, 2019," All J&K Transport Welfare Association chairman T S Wazir told reporters here on Tuesday. He said the industry provides a boost to economic activities but has suffered immensely due to back-to-back lockdown situations over the past two years. "We have no Amarnath yatra, the rush to Mata Vaishno Devi shrine also dropped drastically and the tourism sector received a big blow and is almost finished after August 2019. The problems compounded with the outbreak of the pandemic which impacted even the marriage functions with the government restricting the number of guests to just 25," he said. Wazir appealed to the central government and the Lt Governor to consider their plight and announce a package for the industry including waiving the passenger tax and interest on the loans "to provide breather to the industry which is fighting for its survival". "We request the Lt Governor for a direct meeting to listen to our problems so that the train which has derailed can be brought back on its track," he said. He also demanded an end to "unnecessary harassment" of transporters on the pretext of checking and scrutiny of documents at various checkpoints. The process of unlocking began in Jammu and Kashmir on Monday after over a month long 'corona curfew' with partial reopening of shops, but the transporters kept their vehicles off the roads demanding revision of the decision related to seating capacity in public transport.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/protesting-jk-transporters-decide-to-resume-operations-seek-meet-with-lg-992515.html
01-06-2021||North and Central||Frivolous pleas eat away time meant for case of national importance: SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday disapproved filing of several frivolous petitions before it, saying that they render the court dysfunctional besides eating into the judges' time meant for taking up matters of national importance. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah made the strong observation after taking up an application for a case that was already disposed of in March. The final order in the matter has already been passed by the court yet an application has been filed, the bench pointed out. "What is this? This is how the Supreme Court is being made dysfunctional," the bench said while pulling up the counsel for filing the application citing a trivial issue. Noting that 95 per cent of cases before the vacation bench of the top court are frivolous, Chandrachud said: "We should not encourage this." "Yesterday, I had to finalise an order in a suo motu matter related to Covid-19, which I could not do, as I had to read up the files for today's hearings," Chandrachud said, as he reiterated that the institution should not consider frivolous matters. "Serious matters must be given time," he added. As the counsel still pleaded to give him time to argue, the bench asked him to respect the sanctity of the court, as such hearings not only waste resources, they also send out a wrong impression that the judges have a lot of time. "This is also the taxpayers' money which you are wasting," the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/frivolous-pleas-eat-away-time-meant-for-case-of-national-importance-sc-992519.html
01-06-2021||North and Central||Covid-19: Top BJP leader holds brainstorming sessions with UP ministers, office bearers||In an apparent bid to assess the possible negative fallout of the alleged Covid 'mismanagement' in Uttar Pradesh, a top BJP leader on Tuesday held brainstorming sessions with around a dozen state ministers and a host of senior state party leaders here. BJP national organisation secretary B L Santosh, who arrived here on a two-day visit on Monday, met several ministers, including the two deputy chief ministers - Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma, besides senior leaders of the saffron party from different regions in the state. According to the sources in the BJP, Santosh tried to get feedback from the ministers and other leaders on reports of a possible negative fallout of the way the state government tackled the second wave of Covid-19. Sources said that the national party leader also sought to know from the minister about the 'mood' of the people in general as well as the reasons behind the dismal performance of the saffron party in the recently-concluded panchayat polls in the state. "The discussions ranged from Covid management impact and poor performance in the panchayat polls to resentment among a number of party legislators over the style of functioning of the state government," said a senior UP BJP leader preferring anonymity. Sources said that Santosh stressed the need to reach out to the people, especially in the rural areas, and provide all possible relief and assistance to those affected by Covid. "Not much time is left for the next assembly polls...we must reach out to the people and assure them that we are with them in this hour of difficulty," said the leader. The confabulations came less than a week after RSS general secretary Dattatreya Hosabale's visit to the state capital. Hosabale, during his stay here, discussed the Covid situation in the state and the help provided by the Sangh to the people during the pandemic. He had also interacted with the doctors, who were associated with the RSS, and discussed the Covid situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-top-bjp-leader-holds-brainstorming-sessions-with-up-ministers-office-bearers-992523.html
01-06-2021||North and Central||National Conference leader Omar Abdullah hits out at J&K administration||National Conference leader Omar Abdullah on Tuesday wondered if there are two chief secretaries in Jammu and Kashmir. "Two chief secretaries in J&K, an administration split between loyalists of the outgoing CS & others who want to get on with their work but can't figure out what's going on. So much for good governance & accountability," Abdullah tweeted. He was responding to a Twitter user who claimed that outgoing chief secretary B V R Subrahmanyam was using the official car and office and also attended a meeting on Monday chaired by the lieutenant governor, while new appointee A K Mehta was forced to operate out of another office. The administration had on Saturday directed administrative secretaries to address all communications from May 31 to the new cheif secretary. Mehta was last week appointed as chief secretary while Subrahmanyam was transferred to the department of commerce, government of India, and posted as officer on special duty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/national-conference-leader-omar-abdullah-hits-out-at-jk-administration-992536.html
01-06-2021||North and Central||'Don't play games with the Supreme Court', SC tells BSP MLA's husband seeking bail in murder case||The Supreme Court Tuesday refused to entertain a bail plea of Madhya Pradesh BSP MLA's husband, who was arrested in over two-year-old murder case of Congress leader Devendra Chourasia, asking him not to play games with the apex court. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah allowed BSP MLA Rambai Singh’s husband Govind Singh to withdraw his bail plea and said, “Supreme Court will not enlarge you on bail. You can seek remedy before an appropriate forum”. When counsel for Singh sought liberty of the court that he be allowed to persuade the trial court for bail, the bench said, “We are not saying anything in the order or giving you any liberty. Don't play games with the Supreme Court”. The bench told Singh that he has been booked for murder with 17 cases pending against him and even a lookout notice was issued against him after he tried to abscond. Sensing the mood of the court, advocate Raj Kishore Chaudhary, appearing for Singh then said that he be allowed to withdraw the application for bail.   Justice Shah said Singh was given police security just because he was MLA's husband and police instead of arresting him were protecting him. “It was only after the orders of this court that you were arrested. We are not inclined to give you bail,” Justice Shah said. On March 28, Singh, who was absconding, was arrested by the police after the top court had given a deadline to Madhya Pradesh Director General of Police of April 5 to arrest him or face coercive action. On March 26, the top court had observed that an effort was made to shield the accused after the DGP had said that despite the order of the court, police was not able to apprehend or arrest him. The top court had asked the DGP to specify when and for what reason security was granted to Singh. It was hearing pleas by Somesh, son of Chaurasia, and the state government seeking cancellation of bail granted to Singh. The pleas claimed he was involved in several murder cases while on bail. On March 12, the top court had taken “serious note” of the Madhya Pradesh Police's failure to arrest Singh and the alleged harassment of a judicial officer by the Damoh Superintendent of Police. It had asked the DGP to inquire into the allegations levelled by the Additional Sessions Judge (ASJ). The ASJ, who is conducting the trial in cases involving Singh, has made him an accused in the murder case under section 319 of CrPC (Power to proceed against other persons appearing to be guilty of offence). The judge had noted in his February 8 order that he was “pressured” by the Damoh SP and his subordinates. The top court had noted that despite a non-bailable arrest warrant against Singh, he had evaded arrest and "the rule of law must be preserved” by arresting him. It said the judicial officer has claimed that the accused, who are "highly influential political persons", have raised false allegations against him and apprehends that he may be subjected to an "unpleasant incident" in the future.   "We take serious note of the manner in which the Additional Sessions Judge, Hata, who is in charge of the criminal case, has been harassed by the law enforcement machinery in Damoh. "We have no reason to disbelieve a judicial officer who has made an impassioned plea that he was being pressurized as a result of his orders under Section 319 of the CrPC," the top court had said. The top court had noted that despite the registration of an FIR on March 15, 2019, in which Somesh alleged that Singh was complicit in the murder of his father, no steps have been taken by the investigating authorities to arrest him. The top court had directed the state government to provide adequate security to the judicial officer. The Madhya Pradesh government had earlier submitted to the top court that a warrant of arrest was issued against Singh and a proclamation under Section 82 of the CrPC on March 4 with an award of Rs 10,000. Chaurasia was killed in March 2019 after he joined the Congress. The police had then registered a murder case against Singh and others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dont-play-games-with-the-supreme-court-sc-tells-bsp-mlas-husband-seeking-bail-in-murder-case-992563.html
01-06-2021||North and Central||J&K admin caps price of RT-PCR test by pvt labs at Rs 400||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has fixed the price of RT-PCR test for Covid-19 conducted by private laboratories at Rs 400, an official order said. Private laboratories in the Union Territory are presently charging Rs 1,500 to Rs 1,800 from the patients for the tests. In an order, Financial Commissioner Health and Medical Education Department Atal Dulloo said in accordance with the directions of Lt Governor Manoj Sinha, no private laboratory would charge any amount more than Rs 400 for RT-PCR test for Covid-19. The cost of Rs 400 includes GST or taxes, if any, cost involved in pickup, packing and transportation of samples, documentation and reporting. The people have been demanding that a cap be put on the price of RT-PCR tests by private laboratories who have been charging Rs 1500 to Rs 1600 from the patients at their labs and an extra Rs 200 if the sample is collected from a home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-admin-caps-price-of-rt-pcr-test-by-pvt-labs-at-rs-400-992573.html
01-06-2021||North and Central||Traders' body criticises Delhi government for allowing home delivery of liquor||The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) on Tuesday criticised the Delhi government for allowing home delivery of liquor instead of opening shops and markets on priority. The Delhi Excise (Amendment) Rules, 2021, notified on Monday, allow licence holders to deliver liquor booked through an app or a website at the doorstep of the buyers. Praveen Khandelwal, general secretary of CAIT, alleged in a statement that despite several requests, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal did not allow them to reopen shops. The decision shows that "liquor is more important for him", he said. "Kejriwal did not allow the shops to reopen but on the other hand, by amending Delhi Excise Amendment Act, he has allowed home delivery of liquor which shows that "liquor" is more important for him rather than the livelihood earned not only by the traders but also by their employees," Khandelwal said. He added that the decision was taken with a view to earn revenue, which could have been achieved by opening markets from May 31. "Even by allowing the shops and markets to open from May 31, 2021, the government could have fetched substantial revenue by sale proceeds which would have been made by the traders on the one hand and also providing opportunities for earning livelihood to people of Delhi," he said. Earlier, the CAIT had slammed the Delhi government for its decision to allow construction and manufacturing activities as part of the unlock process but keeping the shops and markets closed till further orders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/traders-body-criticises-delhi-government-for-allowing-home-delivery-of-liquor-992593.html
01-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi hospitals ramping up infra for a possible third wave of Covid-19, focus on child care||Delhi hospitals ramping up infra for a possible third wave of Covid-19, focus on child care , Jun 1 (PTI) Hospitals across Delhi have started ramping up infrastructure to ensure availability of essential equipment, drugs and ICU beds for children as part of their plan to tackle a possible third wave of the coronavirus. The Delhi government has set up a task force to suggest measures to protect children from the third wave. Most of the hospitals are focussing on ramping up their ICU beds and facilities for children, amid fears that the third wave might be fatal for them. Dr P K Bhardwaj, Chief Executive Director of Saroj Super Specialty Hospital in Rohini, said the plan is to improve the infrastructure in the paediatric ICU and neonatal ICU. The hospital has been preparing infrastructure keeping in mind that an attendant will have to be kept with their Covid-positive child, he said. "So, there will be two partitions in a room for the parent and the kid,” Dr Bhardwaj said. The number of beds in neonatal unit will be increased from 10 at present to around 20. The capacity of the paediatric ICU and high-dependency unit will be tripled, he added. The hospital has already started procuring oxygen masks, high-flow nasal cannulas, special ventilators and BIPAP machines for children, he said. "The facility will also hire more neonatologists and paediatric intensivists. We have one intensivist at present, we have to have minimum three,” Dr Bhardwaj said. Dr Chandrashekhar, the head of the paediatric intensive care at Madhukar Rainbow Children's Hospital in Malviya Nagar, said the number of paediatric ICU beds at the facility can be increased to 30 from 25 at present, if need arises. In case a child aged below one month gets infected, he/she can be accommodated in the 40-bed neonatal ICU at the hospital. However, there has hardly been any case of child that age getting infected.  "We expect more cases of multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children and are ramping up our technical and manpower support and taking steps to ensure enough quantity of essential drugs and oxygen," he said. The hospital is likely to create oxygen storage capacity on its premises and can also tie up with neighbouring hospitals having oxygen plants, he said. Sources from Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals said that the hospital has existing arrangements with two vendors who would meet any increased requirement for liquid medical oxygen in future. Moreover, the hospital has installed an oxygen generator plant to meet its requirements of cylinders through the support of the French government. The hospital is also exploring the creation of an LMO generation plant in keeping with the directions of the Delhi High Court and the Delhi government, sources told PTI. The Delhi government-run Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) Hospital had recorded around 40 cases of "severe" coronavirus infection among children during the second wave and around 15 of them were aged below one year. Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director of LNJP, said the hospital is making more ICU beds for children and a special ICU for them. "All the 1500 bed will have piped oxygen. Currently, 1100 beds have piped oxygen and for the rest, we rely on cylinders. But we will do away with the cylinders," he said. Dr Rajiv Sherwal, medical director of the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital and Chacha Nehru Bal Shikitsalaya, said the Rajiv Gandhi Hospital is likely to have its own oxygen generation plant within a week. Beds are being kept aside of children and procurement of medical equipment for children is also being done. PTI GVS/SLB SMN SMN||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hospitals-ramping-up-infra-for-a-possible-third-wave-of-covid-19-focus-on-child-care-992599.html
01-06-2021||North and Central||Big relief: Delhi CM on cancellation of class 12 board exams||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said it is a "big relief" that the Class 12 board exams have been cancelled. His remark came after the Centre decided to cancel the CBSE Class 12 board exams amid the continuing Covid-19 pandemic across the country. Prime Minister Narendra Modi asserted that the decision has been taken in the interest of students and the anxiety among students, parents and teachers must be put to an end. Earlier in the day, Kejriwal had said that the exams should be cancelled in view of the Covid situation and students be evaluated on the basis of past performance. "I am glad 12th exams have been cancelled. All of us were very worried about the health of our children. A big relief," Chief Minister Kejriwal tweeted. I am glad 12th exams have been cancelled. All of us were very worried abt the health of our children. A big relief His deputy Manish Sisodia, who has been against the idea of conducting the exams in the given circumstances, also said, "I am happy that the never-ending class 12 for 1.5 crore students of the country will finally end." The decision to cancel the exam was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Modi in which it was decided that the CBSE will take steps to compile the results of Class 12 students as per well-defined objective criteria in a time-bound manner. The CBSE had on April 14 announced the cancellation of Class 10 exams and postponement of Class 12 exams in view of surge in coronavirus cases. The Ministry of Education had recently sought detailed suggestions from states and union territories on proposals discussed in a high-level meeting on the issue. The government had informed the Supreme Court, which is hearing a plea seeking the exam's cancellation, that it will take a final decision by June 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/big-relief-delhi-cm-on-cancellation-of-class-12-board-exams-992606.html
01-06-2021||North and Central||ABVP writes to President for appointment of new JNU VC||The Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) Tuesday submitted a memorandum to President Ram Nath Kovind, seeking the appointment of a new vice chancellor of the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU). Current vice chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar is on six months’ extension after his term ended in January. The student body urged the President for the permanent appointment of a new vice chancellor since "important responsibilities are being discharged temporarily". "Decisions are not being taken at a quick pace in the interest of the university, so the appointment of a permanent vice-chancellor becomes imperative," ABVP JNU president Shivam Chaurasia said. Meanwhile, the Delhi University Students' Union (DUSU), which is also led by the ABVP, presented a memorandum of demands to the DU VC to address academic and exam issues. It said in a statement that students and representatives voiced their "opinions and impediments in the General Body Meeting where more than 52 college unions of DU decided to propose their demands". "...that included another chance for students giving assignment based evaluation (ABE) to submit their assignments, a request to frame a University policy wherein the component of attendance is not to be added in the marking of ABE by colleges and results to be declared immediately," it demanded. The DU student representatives also raised demands to offer a 100 percent concession in the examination fees for the students "who would be giving ABE and a refund for the fees already collected".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/abvp-writes-to-president-for-appointment-of-new-jnu-vc-992634.html
01-06-2021||North and Central||Visuals of dogs biting at half-burnt bodies in Uttarkashi shocks locals||Disturbing videos showing dogs pulling at half-burnt bodies at a cremation ground on the banks of Bhagirathi river here have gone viral sparking reaction from locals, who criticised the district authorities for their "callousness". "The attention of municipal authorities and the district administration was drawn to some half-burnt bodies lying in Kedarghat recently. But it seems the matter went unheeded," a local said terming it the "height of their indifference". "How can they be so callous to something which puts humanity to shame," he said. Even people dying of Covid-19 are being cremated at Kedarghat and the bodies could be that of those infected with the virus, he said. With the water level of Bhagirathi rising, several bodies not cremated properly have been swept down the river, but those still lying at the ghat are being pulled at by stray dogs. When contacted, Bhatwari SDM Devendra Negi said the footage is a week-old and several arrangements have been made at Kedarghat for proper disposal of bodies after it surfaced. "The visuals are a week-old. The municipal authorities are ensuring regular cleaning of the cremation ground and proper disposal of bodies now. However, several news channels and portals are still showing old visuals which should not be done," Negi said. The grisly videos have disturbed people in Uttarkashi, which is a religious place with two major Himalayan temples of Gangotri and Yamunotri located in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/visuals-of-dogs-biting-at-half-burnt-bodies-in-uttarkashi-shocks-locals-992659.html
01-06-2021||North and Central||Haryana state board cancels Class 12 exams due to Covid-19||The Haryana government has decided to cancel the Class 12 exams conducted by the state board, Education Minister Kanwar Pal said on Tuesday. The decision came shortly after the central government announced cancelling the CBSE Class 12 board exams amid the Covid-19 pandemic. "We have also decided to cancel the Class 12 board exams in the state which were to be conducted by the Haryana Board of School Education," Pal told PTI over phone. "We are going with the decision taken by the Centre and have decided to cancel the board exams," he said. The state Board will take steps to compile the results of Class 12 students and modalities for this will be worked out soon, he added. The decision to cancel the CBSE exams was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "Government of India has decided to cancel the Class XII CBSE Board Exams. After extensive consultations, we have taken a decision that is student-friendly, one that safeguards the health as well as future of our youth," the prime minister tweeted after the meeting. Anxiety among students, parents and teachers must be put to an end, and students should not be forced to appear for exams in such a stressful situation, a government statement quoted the prime minister as saying. Earlier on April 15, the Haryana government had cancelled the Class 10 board exams which were to be conducted by the state board. It had then decided to postpone the exams of Class 12. The state board exams were earlier scheduled to start in April and continue till mid-May before these were cancelled for Class 10 and postponed for Class 12. Haryana saw a sharp increase in coronavirus cases over the past few weeks. However, infections have been on the decline in the last few days. To contain the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in Haryana, the state government had initially imposed a lockdown on May 3 for a week till May 10, which was later extended four times and is currently enforced till June 7.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-state-board-cancels-class-12-exams-due-to-covid-19-992665.html
01-06-2021||Opinion||25 years ago: June 1, 1996||Patel, Siddaramaiah was sworn in MR J H PATEL and Mr Siddaramaiah were today administered the oath of office as chief minister and deputy chief minister respectively by Governor Khurshed Alam Khan. Later, addressing his maiden press conference after becoming chief minister, Mr Patel along with Deputy Chief Minister Siddaramaiah said that the State Cabinet would be reconstituted within four days and the decision on the Cabinet members and its size would be taken in consultation with senior leaders of the party. Mr Patel and Mr Siddaramaiah took the oath of office in Kannada.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/25-years-ago-june-1-1996-992293.html
01-06-2021||Opinion||50 years ago: June 1, 1971||Mariner-9 joins race to Mars America's Mariner-9 spacecraft is off on its six-Month journey to the red planet Mars Today in the wake of two Russian crafts, Mars-2 and Mars-3. The successful launch here tonight, followed by faultless separation from the parent rocket cheered Space Agency officials depressed by the failure earlier this month of Mariner-9's cousin Mariner-8. Plunged into the Atlantic barely minutes after blast-off on May 8, a $77 million flop. Since then, Russians have announced their two successful launching of Mars-2, 12 days ago and Mars-3 last Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/50-years-ago-june-1-1971-992294.html
01-06-2021||Opinion||The world should learn from India’s Covid-19 cataclysm||By Mihir Sharma In cities at least, India’s nightmarish second wave of Covid-19 finally seems to be ebbing. Delhi has brought its test positivity rate below 2 per cent for the first time in two months. The pandemic’s scars won’t be easily erased, however — and they should be a warning to other developing nations. Those countries must learn from India’s experience if they don’t want to repeat it.  The first and most obvious lesson is to avoid overconfidence. A relatively small change in how transmissible the novel coronavirus is can have large, non-linear effects on how fast it spreads. That means strategies that kept the pandemic at bay in 2020 won’t necessarily work in 2021. As new variants emerge, health authorities might need to lock down more firmly and in a more targeted fashion to remain safe. To do so, they’ll also need to test more widely and perform more genomic sequencing so that they can track which variants are spreading in the population and where. This won’t be easy. Even India, with an extensive scientific establishment, ranks 102nd in the world in the proportion of reported cases sequenced. Other emerging nations will struggle even more. Richer nations should help. As a recent paper in Science pointed out, there are significant legal barriers to sharing of samples and data internationally. These need to be addressed so virus samples can move across borders quickly. Countries such as the U.K. that have built vast genome sequencing capacity will have to dedicate some of it to tracking samples from other parts of the world. Emerging nations also need to learn the right lessons about limited healthcare capacity. The tragic scramble in cities such as Delhi for hospital beds, oxygen cylinders and medicines need not be replicated elsewhere. Indian states that established triage systems — telling those with symptoms whether they should go to a hospital or a care center, and which ones had beds free — managed the pressure on their creaky public health machinery better than others. Local authorities should make plans to set up similar systems in their countries, including by phone and online. Doctors now have a wealth of data about which therapeutic treatments are most effective and which shouldn’t be tried. Patients’ families spent sleepless nights trying to get hold of convalescent plasma or drugs such as remdesivir before the Indian health establishment eventually admitted they were largely ineffective and dropped them from treatment protocols. High-flow oxygen therapy was overused, leading not just to a shortage of medical oxygen but to some extremely nasty additional diseases. Similarly, other governments know now that when the curve starts steepening, a new variant is detected or test positivity rises above danger levels, they should swiftly establish a centralized task force to allocate hospital resources and prescribe the right therapies.  Finally, and most importantly, all nations should now understand that vaccines work and that interfering with their supply is dangerous. The Indian government has argued that “if just one country shuts down raw material production, the entire supply chain breaks down.” Even the locally made Covaxin vaccine from Bharat Biotech International Ltd. uses 360 ingredients from 10 countries — 200 of them from the U.S. Countries such as the U.S. and U.K., which have subverted supply chains to prioritize their own needs, have a lot to answer for. Meanwhile, Indian manufacturers’ shift to supplying huge domestic needs first has meant that vulnerable countries in the rest of the emerging world are waiting too long for their shots. International cooperation over the next weeks and months must focus on ensuring that the vaccine supply chain is repaired, export bans end, more manufacturing capacity is created and the existing stock of vaccines is shared more equitably. What happened in India could happen anywhere. But it need not if India’s government, its peers in the emerging world and the world’s richer nations learn the right lessons, work together — and show a little humility about this awful disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-world-should-learn-from-india-s-covid-19-cataclysm-992353.html
01-06-2021||Opinion||China’s infrastructure projects have worsened Sri Lanka’s economic woes||The development of Hambantota International Port (HIP) was espoused by former Sri Lankan president Mahinda Rajapaksa, the elder brother of the incumbent, to spur economic development in his home district in 2009 and against the advice of critics who had flagged concerns about its commercial viability. After Indian companies refused, he turned to China, which was attracted by the strategic location of this port, situated at the tip of the Indian Ocean (through which bulk of international oil traffic from the Gulf passes) and barely 300 miles from the Indian mainland. Between 2007 and 2014, China gave five loans amounting to $1.26 billion for the development of this port, in the beginning at 1 per cent or 2 per cent, but later escalated to 6.3 per cent with short repayment periods. Though the port was opened on November 18, 2010, it failed to attract many ships, which preferred to berth at the nearby Colombo port. As the debt repayment liabilities mounted, the successor Maithripala Sirisena government, in August 2017, handed over an 85 per cent stake in the port to China Merchants Port Holdings Company (CMPort) for 99 years for $ 1.12 billion. The remaining 15 per cent remained with the Sri Lanka Ports Authority; commercial operations of the port were managed jointly while its ownership remained with the Sri Lankan government. After CMPort took over the predominant stake, port operations were expanded to include container handling, general cargo, passengers, bunkering, bulk terminal, including for LNG, roll on-roll off operations with a doubling of business since 2017. China is trying to set up industrial zones in 15,000 acres of land associated with HIP locating companies, which can export globally. China is also investing $ 1.4 billion in the Colombo port city project, which will involve the reclamation of land and construction of infrastructure adjacent to the Colombo port, and building of an integrated resort, casinos, conference centre, a marina, residential apartments, financial zone and green space. In addition, China has provided billions of dollars in loans to Sri Lanka for developing a seaport, airport, highways and power stations. While the country’s debt liability to China has increased to about $ 8 billion (2020), these projects have yet to yield adequate revenues for debt servicing. China’s economy has, meanwhile, plummeted with its GDP increasing by a paltry 2.3 per cent in 2019 and contracting in 2020 by (-) 3.6 per cent (GDP about $ 78 billion in 2020). It suffers from several structural problems such as falling trade to GDP ratio (which declined from 33 per cent in 2000 to 13 per cent in 2019), failure to diversify export destinations, low levels of FDI and declining tax revenues. Its debt (government) to GDP ratio has escalated from 71.5 per cent in 2010 to 101 per cent in 2020. Fitch and other rating agencies have downgraded Sri Lanka’s sovereign debt to “CCC” indicating the risk of meeting its debt repayments, which has adversely affected the country’s ability to raise finance from the capital markets. Sri Lankan leaders including the current president, however, downplay the Chinese debt liability, as China has become the lender of last resort to provide a periodic balance of payment support to Sri Lanka. In early 2021, China provided a $ 1.4 billion currency swap facility to tackle the foreign currency shortage. This was followed by a $ 500 million foreign currency term financing facility from the China Development Bank and a $ 180 million loan from the Beijing based Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank in April 2021. Considering that the development of Chinese projects was not based on independent feasibility studies, there are doubts about their financial viability. The record of China’s several infrastructural projects in Zambia, Kenya, Pakistan, Myanmar and other countries points to a bleak future. Though India has not provided loans and investments on the scale that China has, India’s investments have facilitated crucial technology transfer, partnerships, trade creation and human capital development. India has improved Sri Lanka’s rail networks, which serve more than 300,000 daily commuters and built 50,000 houses for people displaced by the civil war. Its free trade agreement has enabled Sri Lanka to augment its exports to India. Besides the Gulf region, India is the second-biggest source of worker remittances. Indians make up 20 per cent of Sri Lanka’s tourist flows. While the Sri Lankan leaders have assured that they would not take any steps to harm India’ security, the creeping Chinese influence may put increased pressure on Sri Lanka in future to allow China to make military use of these facilities to India’s disadvantage. China can disrupt trade and energy flows passing through the Indian Ocean and set up basing facilities to interdict naval operations of India, the US and other countries. Recently, Sri Lanka decided to cancel a proposal for the development of the East Container Terminal at Colombo port with the assistance of India and Japan amid opposition from some nationalist groups. India will have to take necessary steps together with like-minded countries such as the US, Japan and others to moderate China’s growing influence in Sri Lanka and prevent her from falling into an economic quagmire to ensure that their interests are not adversely affected. (Yogesh Gupta is a former Ambassador who writes on China-related issues.) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/china-s-infrastructure-projects-have-worsened-sri-lanka-s-economic-woes-992445.html
01-06-2021||Opinion||Covid-19: India won’t get a V-shaped recovery this time||By Andy Mukherjee, The V-shaped economic recovery that India’s policy makers obsessed over in 2020 did eventually materialise. It won’t be repeated after this year’s Covid-19 carnage. To see why, start with the fading momentum. Government statistics released Monday showed 1.6% growth in gross domestic product from a year earlier in the March quarter, before a deadly second wave of infections. But this expansion, an improvement over the 0.5% rate in the previous three months, is a statistical artifact. A better metric is seasonally adjusted quarter-on-quarter growth, which Capital Economics calculates at 0.7%, a sharp — though largely expected — slowdown from 9.5% in the December quarter. (The figures aren’t annualised.) With production losing steam, overall output still caught up with its level the previous year, when India was just entering a stringent national lockdown. That disruption caused a brutal 24.4% loss of GDP in the June quarter that took the economy nine months to recoup. That’s not a perfect V-shape, but close enough. Don’t expect the same this time. During the current surge in cases, there have been only local restrictions on physical activity. That’s making some analysts optimistic about the resumption of growth that will inevitably occur when the coronavirus fully recedes. Yet there are several crucial difference from last year that could make it harder for India to bounce back. Take the intensity of the pandemic. Officially, India recorded about 1.4 crore new cases and 1,16,000 deaths between February 1 and May 15. But according to a study by University of Michigan and other researchers, a more reasonable estimate may be 38 crore infections. (Imagine the entire US population — and about half of Mexico — catching Covid-19 in 3 1/2 months.) The real fatality count, according to the same paper, is closer to 7,00,000, and climbing. The staggering scale of the tragedy suggests that medical expenses, which in India mostly come out of patients’ pockets, will have depleted household savings. With high fuel taxes crimping family budgets, it’s reasonable to expect consumers to spend cautiously even when they can go out freely. The slow pace of vaccination — a little more than 3% of the population is fully inoculated — will make people wary of a third wave. Unlike last year, the disease has spread. Infections in metropolitan centers are receding, but they’re still stubbornly high in outlying districts. Alongside fading growth momentum and private health expenditure crowding out discretionary spending, pressured rural wages will be the other reason to rule out a quick revival. As Sunil Kumar Sinha, principal economist at India Ratings and Research Ltd., a unit of Fitch Ratings Ltd., explains, carpenters, blacksmiths and vehicle repairmen, as well as construction, transport and storage workers in villages, require high levels of physical contact. Many poor families may not even have healthy adults to take advantage of a 15-year-old program of guaranteed community work, where the government pays the wages. Despite record agricultural production, rural demand could remain muted.  Finally, India’s current strategy for demand revival is flawed. There’s no sign of a meaningful income-support program to put purchasing power in the hands of battered households dealing with double-digit unemployment even without a national shutdown. Meanwhile, savers are being forced to accept deposit interest rates that are barely covering half of their inflation expectations. In other words, India is witnessing a huge shift in resources away from the ultimate providers of labour and capital, and toward borrowers: companies and the government. The central bank recently handed over a $14 billion dividend check, much larger than expected, to the Finance Ministry. The money will come into the banking system as the state spends it and further squeeze retirees’ interest income when their children are struggling in the job market and commodity inflation is accelerating globally. Retail investors piling into equities even when the real economy struggles is not prosperity, but an optical illusion. As finance professor Ananth Narayan, a former Standard Chartered Plc banker, notes, large negative real rates heighten “risks of asset price and general inflation, widening inequities, and eventual external imbalances.” With growth firming up in the rest of Asia, several countries will slowly start raising interest rates before the Federal Reserve. To preserve financial stability, India needs to think about joining them. Not chase dreams of yet another V-shaped recovery.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/covid-19-india-won-t-get-a-v-shaped-recovery-this-time-992491.html
01-06-2021||Panorama||I wrote Bond movies; Amazon, MGM deal gives me chills||By John Logan, So, Amazon now owns 50 per cent of 007. With the acquisition of MGM and its movie catalogue, the online retail giant bought into the James Bond franchise. When I heard this news, a chill went through me. Having worked as a writer on “Skyfall” and “Spectre,” I know that Bond isn’t just another franchise, not Marvel or a DC — it is a family business that has been carefully nurtured and shepherded through the changing times by the Broccoli/Wilson family. Work sessions on “Skyfall” and “Spectre” were like hearty discussions around the dinner table, with Barbara Broccoli and her half brother Michael Wilson letting all the unruly children talk. Every crazy aunt or eccentric uncle was given a voice. We discussed and debated and came to a resolution, as families must, with no outside voices in the room. When you work on Bond movies, you’re not just an employee. You’re part of that family. The reason we’re still watching Bond movies after more than 50 years is that the family has done an extraordinary job of protecting the character through the thickets of moviemaking and changing public tastes. Corporate partners come and go, but James Bond endures. He endures precisely because he is being protected by people who love him. The current deal with Amazon gives Barbara Broccoli and Michael Wilson, who owns 50 per cent of the Bond empire, ironclad assurances of continued artistic control. But will this always be the case? What happens if a bruising corporation like Amazon begins to demand a voice in the process? What happens to the comradeship and quality control if there’s an Amazonian overlord with analytics parsing every decision? What happens when a focus group reports they don’t like Bond drinking martinis? Or killing quite so many people? And that English accent’s a bit alienating, so could we have more Americans in the story for marketability? If you think I’m exaggerating, consider some internal polling data that decreed that the movie adaptation of “Sweeney Todd” — for which I wrote the screenplay — would be much more popular without all those annoying songs. From my experience, here’s what happens to movies when such concerns start invading the creative process: Everything gets watered down to the most anodyne and easily consumable version of itself. The movie becomes an inoffensive shadow of a thing, not the thing itself. There are no more rough edges or flights of cinematic madness. The fire and passion are gradually drained away as original ideas and voices are subsumed by commercial concerns, corporate oversight and polling data. I wonder whether such an outré studio movie as “Vertigo” would have survived if such pressures existed then. Not to mention radical films like “Citizen Kane,” “The Red Shoes,” “Cabin in the Sky” and “Bonnie and Clyde.” Why worry about Amazon? It’s not that it’s a bad-faith company. It’s that it’s a global technology company with a more than $1.6 trillion market capitalization that produces on a mass scale and is obsessed with the “customer experience.” It’s not necessarily a champion or guardian of artistic creativity or original entertainment. In the context of the larger company, Amazon Prime Video is not chiefly about artists. It’s about attracting and retaining customers. And when bigger companies start having a say in iconic characters or franchises, the companies tend to want more, not better, and the quality differential can vary wildly, project to project (see: the rapidly expanding “Star Wars” franchise at Disney and the DC Comics franchises of Superman, Batman and others at Warner Bros.) As a screenwriter, I’ve had the opportunity to work on several big studio movies. Those that emerge with meaning, with art and uniqueness intact, are always those that are protected from undue corporate influence — those occasions when the moviemakers can work in a protected environment. In my case, films like “Gladiator,” “The Aviator,” “Sweeney Todd,” “Rango” and “Hugo” were all made from passion and without ever worrying about synergy or spinoffs or cross-platform marketing. Artistic control and stewardship are especially vital to big movies, where the voices are many and the stakes huge. When we were making “Gladiator,” it took a giant like the director Ridley Scott to fend off the countless naysayers who predicted disaster would befall our “sword-and-sandal epic.” They questioned everything, especially the ending: Isn’t it a bummer? How can we have a sequel if you kill the hero? And is there any way we could avoid an R rating? But Ridley believed in the story we were telling and how we were telling it, so he resolutely kept the commercial concerns and noisy corporate voices outside the door. So too Martin Scorsese with our Howard Hughes biopic, “The Aviator.” A subject like Mr. Hughes naturally invites controversy and high emotion. The push from outside the creative circle was for the lurid and sensational, but Marty stared down every challenge that threatened our more humane version of the story. He sometimes said, “Yes, that would make an interesting Howard Hughes movie, but it’s not our Howard Hughes movie.” Significantly, in the case of both “Gladiator” and “The Aviator,” we were working with brave producers who defended our choices. They cared more about the art than about the bottom line. When you’re making a movie, you need a champion to fight battles like these. Barbara Broccoli and Michael Wilson are the champions of James Bond. They keep the corporate and commercial pressures outside the door. Nor are they motivated by them. That’s why we don’t have a mammoth Bond Cinematic Universe, with endless anemic variations of 007 sprouting up on TV or streaming or in spinoff movies. The Bond movies are truly the most bespoke and handmade films I’ve ever worked on. That’s why they are original, thorny, eccentric and special. They were never created with lawyers and accountants and e-commerce mass marketing pollsters hovering in the background. This is also why they can afford to be daring. Here’s an example from “Skyfall” — my favorite day working on the movie, in fact. Sam Mendes, the director, and I marched into Barbara and Michael’s office, sat at the family table and pitched the first scene between Bond and the villain, Raoul Silva. Now, the moment 007 first encounters his archnemesis is often the iconic moment in a Bond movie, the scene around which you build a lot of the narrative and cinematic rhythms. (Think about Bond first meeting Dr. No or Goldfinger or Blofeld, all classic scenes in the franchise.) Well, Sam and I boldly announced we wanted to do this pivotal scene as a homoerotic seduction. Barbara and Michael didn’t need to poll a focus group. They didn’t need to vet this radical idea with any studio or corporation — they loved it instantly. They knew it was fresh and new, provocative in a way that keeps the franchise contemporary. They weren’t afraid of controversy. In my experience, not many big movies can work with such freedom and risky joy. But with the Broccoli/Wilson family at the helm, Bond is allowed to provoke, grow and be idiosyncratic. Long may that continue. James Bond has survived the Cold War, Goldfinger, Jaws, disco and Ernst Stavro Blofeld, several times. And I can only hope that the powers-that-be at Amazon recognize the uniqueness of what they just acquired and allow and encourage this special family business to continue unobstructed. Bond’s not “content” and he’s not a mere commodity. He has been a part of our lives for decades now. From Sean Connery to George Lazenby to Roger Moore to Timothy Dalton to Pierce Brosnan to Daniel Craig, we all grew up with our version of 007, so we care deeply about him. Please let 007 drink his martinis in peace. Don’t shake him, don’t stir him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/i-wrote-bond-movies-amazon-mgm-deal-gives-me-chills-992296.html
01-06-2021||Panorama||Go with the flow||The pandemic that is creating chaos in our world has certainly put a spoke in the wheel of progress. While the world of science is working hard to arrive at a solution, a well-known episode from the Ramayana can help us wait out the situation wisely. One day, when the king of Ayodhya was looking at himself in the mirror, he noticed his greying hair. He realised that he was growing old and decided to crown his son Rama. Sage Vasishta, the royal preceptor and an ace astrologer, found that the following day was the most auspicious barring which; the dates were not conducive for several years to come. Accordingly, the announcement of the coronation was made amidst much celebration. The state was engaged in the last minute preparations of the coming event. In the meanwhile Kaikeyi, the beloved queen of Dasharatha, prompted by her handmaiden Manthara decided to realise the two boons promised to her long ago by her husband. Dasharatha’s pleas, anger and his offer with more surpluses in her favour were rejected by the angry queen. King Dasharatha had to send Rama into exile for fourteen years and agree to crown Bharatha as the king of Ayodhya much against his wishes. A little reflection on the subject can at least point to a valid and true incident in the past that compelled Dasharatha to redeem his word of honour, much against his wishes. However, it feels a little strange when we scrutinise sage Vasishta’s prediction which goes in the lines of now or later. What is even more unsettling is that the day earmarked for the coronation happened to be the day when the crown prince was exiled, the king died widowing his queens. The best of ideas, thoughts and dreams can never be realised if one does not make an effort to work on them sincerely and immediately. Hence our ancestors believed in working hands-on on a project especially if it proved to be beneficial to self or society. Shubhasya Sheegram has been the guiding motto to work on welfare ventures. Though this mantra works efficiently most of the time, there are times when our best-laid plans are laid waste by unforeseen circumstances. The best way to deal with such incidents is to accept the situation and go with the flow.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/go-with-the-flow-992297.html
01-06-2021||Panorama||Nepal isn’t only Mount Everest||While the world’s attention has been focused on India as the country battles a deadly second wave of Covid-19, the situation is just as dire in neighbouring Nepal. This has prompted the United Nation’s Health chief to express concerns about the country’s unfolding crisis.  The alarming situation in India has been featured in newspapers across the globe but the western media’s concern about Nepal’s deadly second wave is only limited to Mount Everest, the world’s tallest peak. The news of the devastating pandemic in Nepal was reported in international media mostly after the Covid-19 cases were detected on Mount Everest. Recently, there was a report that a coronavirus outbreak on Mount Everest has infected at least 100 climbers and support staff. If there were no cases in Mount Everest, I doubt Nepal’s Covid-19 crisis would get as much attention as now. Though Nepal is a small country, the pandemic situation is worsening when compared to India. Nepal is unprepared and more hapless than its neighbour, India. The situation in Nepal is so devastating that the prime minister of the country wrote an opinion in one of the newspapers of London appealing to the international community for help. The international community and media should know that only climbers of Everest are not infected by the Covid-19 but the entire country is reeling under the second wave. Not only Nepal, but the second wave is also fast engulfing the countries around India. As the coronavirus infection rises, dozens of countries are facing a severe shortage of oxygen. According to a report by the Bureau of Investigative journalism, nineteen countries around the world are at risk as the demand for oxygen has skyrocketed since March. India has banned the export of oxygen and its neighbours, most of whom rely on India for oxygen, are at great risk. Nepal now needs more than 100 times as much oxygen as it required in March, according to the Bureau’s report. The Himalayan country of more than 28 million is now seeing more infections per million than India. The test positivity rate has climbed to 45%. The surge in cases has pushed Nepal’s fragile health care system to the breaking point. Hospitals are flooded with Covid-19 patients and they do not have enough ventilators, oxygen or even doctors. Many patients have lost their lives due to the lack of oxygen— the country has asked climbers to bring back their oxygen canisters instead of abandoning them on the mountain. Nepal initiated its vaccination campaign in January and has vaccinated 1.9 million people. The country had been dependent on India for vaccines, liquid oxygen, and other medical supplies. It ordered two million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine from India earlier this year but only half the quantity was delivered as India stopped its export citing its growing need. China and the US are responding to Nepal’s crisis. China recently donated 400 oxygen cylinders, 160 oxygen concentrators, and 10 ventilators. It has also donated 8,00,000 doses of the Chinese VeroCell vaccine. The US Agency for International Development announced emergency assistance to help Nepal fight its devastating second-wave surge. The country now is on the brink of an unprecedented disaster. On Monday, 7,425 covid infections and 185 deaths were recorded. Every day, the mortality rate due to coronavirus continues to spike. The vaccination rate is very low, only 7.2% of the population has been given the first dose. Nepal urgently needs vaccines and medicines from foreign donors, else the cataclysm will engulf the country. (The writer is an author and businessman based in Nepal)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/nepal-isn-t-only-mount-everest-992298.html
01-06-2021||Panorama||Opposition day-dreaming post-Assembly poll wins: BJP leader Vinay Sahasrabuddhe||Despite setbacks in the recent round of Assembly elections, senior BJP leader and Rajya Sabha member Vinay Sahasrabuddhe tells DH’s Sagar Kulkarni that the party will measure up to every challenge that comes up before it. Q. How do you view the seven years of the Modi regime? What are the key achievements of the government? A. Perhaps for the first time after Independence, we have experienced seven years of a determined struggle to change the very grammar of governance in India. Under the leadership of Prime Minister Modi, governance, and particularly the delivery aspect of it, has acquired the much-needed centrality. People-oriented, performance-centric and futuristic are the three main characteristics of governance under Prime Minister Modi. Swachh Bharat programme, Ujjwala scheme, Aakankshi District Development programme, AYUSH scheme, reforms in railways, UDAAN scheme in civil aviation, and even decisions on Article 370, CAA, etc., are examples of ‘maximum governance, minimum government’. The pace at which the departments of road transport and highways, space sciences, energy and Jal Shakti have been working is an example of politics of performance. Our achievements on the fronts of education, AYUSH, international relations or defence are a testimony to the visionary approach of the leadership. There are many areas where what could not happen in 70 years has happened in the last seven years. Q. The ongoing Covid-19 pandemic seems to have become a trial-by-fire for the Modi government. A. Although the government was fairly prepared for the second wave and adequate warnings were also issued to all the states, it looks like the new and severe dimensions acquired by the pandemic made it a daunting challenge. Scarcity of oxygen supply and some key supposedly life-saving drugs were due to some new and more lethal features of the virus. Non-availability of hospital beds could be attributed to hasty winding up of temporary facilities created by state governments during the first wave. Although the challenge was severe, I think due to the handholding of government and efficient supply chain management between people and service providers, we were able to bring the situation under control. Q. What do you have to say on the Opposition’s criticism of the government’s handling of the situation, particularly on vaccination, health infrastructure and shortage of medicines? A. The Opposition is out to find fault with everything. There is no consistency in their critical commentary, rather it’s chicanery. A few of them had refused to take the vaccine, calling it a ‘BJP’ or ‘Modi’ vaccine. They created suspicion in the minds of people with irresponsible comments, and now they are clamouring for speedy vaccination. Many of them had earlier demanded decentralisation of vaccine purchase and also its administration but now they want the Centre to handle everything. About health infrastructure, they must know that more AIIMS were established during BJP-NDA regimes than the Congress regimes, with increased budgets and skill development and training. Q. Have the recent Assembly election results made the Opposition more strident in their criticism of the government? Have they altered the government-opposition equation? A. Not really, unless the Opposition has started daydreaming, which is their favourite pastime. The BJP’s graph has gone up in these Assembly elections, in Assam, Puducherry, West Bengal and Tamil Nadu. Even in Kerala, there is a remarkable increase in our vote share. Q. How do you view Mamata Banerjee skipping the meeting with PM Modi to review the devastation caused by Cyclone Yaas? A. Very unfortunate and disgraceful. Her objections to the presence of the Leader of the Opposition of West Bengal during a meeting with the PM smacks of her open indulgence in the politics of ideological untouchability. Her moral bankruptcy has started showing. Her actions have insulted not just the PM, but the people of the nation. Q. The farmers’ agitation against the three farm laws continues on the borders of Delhi even after six months. What is the way out? A. With no disrespect to any leaders leading this agitation, perhaps the personal egos of some of them is coming in the way. Government is open-minded, as it has always been open for dialogue. We have asked them (farmers’ leaders) to give suggestions for amendments in a focused manner. If they are given, they will surely be considered. Q. The new digital media regulations appear to be turning into a flashpoint between the government and social media companies. There is a view that the rules are an assault on the right to privacy. Those who have prejudices will always view government measures through a certain lens. But if one looks at them dispassionately, he/she would realise how balanced they are. In several other countries, these intermediaries have accepted the rules of the respective governments. Why are they resisting in India? Those who are seriously concerned about democracy and freedom of expression in India should also make their algorithm mechanism more transparent. Where is the stakeholders’ participation in the decision-making of these platforms? Q. Why is the government found battling the perception of infringing upon individual rights, controlling free speech? As I said, these are stock allegations in their arsenal, and they don’t deserve any serious consideration. A majority of cases of social media posts critical of state governments are from Maharashtra. Q. Is Uttar Pradesh becoming a challenge for the BJP? Recently, a few meetings of RSS-BJP leaders took place to discuss the situation in UP. What are your prospects in UP in 2022? A. For us, politics is not what is to be dealt with between two vacations. We are into serious politics, and elections are also fought by us with requisite seriousness. Every election is a challenge as we fight to win. So, how can UP be an exception to that?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/opposition-day-dreaming-post-assembly-poll-wins-bjp-leader-vinay-sahasrabuddhe-992304.html
01-06-2021||Right in the Middle||Brother in borrowed feathers||It was in the autumn of ’87 that I learned a valuable lesson that will stay with me for the rest of my life. I was a sprightly young lad of 10 years in my 6th standard at one of the best “convent” schools in Chennai, then Madras. When the time for our annual Science Talent Competition came, unwittingly I gave my name. I had no clue what had to be done next. At home that evening, I realised that my brother studying in 11th Standard had also given his name, and he was a science wizard (he later went on to become a fine engineer). He asked me to relax and had got his kid brother’s dilemma in control. Within a few hours, he whipped up The Nerve Tester, my project. It’s a simple contraption made on a cardboard with a small loop connected between two posts (wooden reaper) marked as “Start” and “Finish”. The objective is to guide the loop from one end to the other, without touch the wire, as touching the wire completes the circuit and a small bulb powered by 2 pen torch battery will glow, then the person is disqualified or does not have nerves of steel. If someone was smart to finish, to complicate the game, the loop was made smaller or the wire twisted and turned to make it a roller coaster ride. The next few days were spent training me how to present this project to the judges and all probable questions were rehearsed. I must admit, my brother was a good teacher. The D-day came, and I did the demo to the judges, they questioned and were visibly impressed with my answers. The last question was: What is the volt of the battery used? That stumped me, as my brother had not briefed me, it was elementary Watson – 1.5 volts is the standard battery and kids smaller than me would know it, told, my brother later at home. For the next 50 secs, I mumbled and stammered to explain the volt of the battery and the judges figured out, I had no clue on the answer. They smiled and moved on, I felt extremely embarrassed, not because I could not answer them, but because I had not done the right thing. I had borrowed my brother's feathers, to shine on. I am reminded of Aesop Fables— one of the tales is of the Crow and the Peacock, which most of you know. I learned a valuable lesson that day: It’s foolish to try to be what you are not. From that day, till today, I’ve tried to live life without borrowing feathers. To add salt to my bruised ego, I secured first place in the competition, any guesses, well I was the only participant in the sub–juniors category.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/brother-in-borrowed-feathers-992295.html
01-06-2021||Second Edit||Covid-19 vaccination policy: Supreme Court must step in||The Supreme Court recently expressed apprehension that the current vaccination policy pursued by the Centre was discriminatory and could be detrimental to the marginalised and underprivileged sections in the 18-44 age group. While refraining from striking it down as being violative of the Constitution, the court urged the government to revisit the policy so that it withstands the scrutiny of Article 14 (equality before the law). The Court’s fears have come true at least in Karnataka where there is a clear distinction between the haves and have nots in the 18-44 bracket when it comes to access to vaccines. This is the result of the Centre’s warped policy, particularly with regard to vaccine procurement and pricing. Under the revised policy, while the Centre purchases 50% of vaccines manufactured in the country at a concessional rate, of the remaining 50%, one portion is allotted to state governments to buy at a higher price and one portion to private hospitals at an even higher price.  Faced with an acute shortage of vaccines, the Karnataka government has issued an advisory, which is not mandatory, that private hospitals should prioritise all available stock for the 45 and above age group due for their second dose, in order to ensure that at least one section of the population is fully vaccinated. In reality, those in the 18-44 group who have the capacity to pay are getting themselves inoculated in private hospitals, while the poor who are dependent on free vaccinations are left in the lurch. Such distinction between two classes of people clearly goes against Article 14. The Karnataka High Court, which is also seized of the matter, has directed the state to make its stand clear on ensuring equitable access to vaccines to all groups on June 1. The court will hopefully direct the government to ensure a uniform policy for all sections of society and for vaccination by both government and private hospitals. However, it is some consolation that the government has decided to vaccinate certain priority sections like street vendors in the 18-plus group, free of cost. It is illogical that while countries like the US and UK are providing free vaccination to all, India should follow a policy that is neither just nor equitable. Experience has shown that no amount of polite nudging by the judiciary will make the government budge from its stand. It may be time for the courts to strike down the existing policy and lay down a new one that is fair and non-discriminatory. The Centre may deem this an encroachment on the executive prerogative, but the government has invited it by its own failures. The courts cannot remain blind to the travails of the common man during a crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/covid-19-vaccination-policy-supreme-court-must-step-in-992303.html
01-06-2021||South||Oppn walk out from Kerala Assembly after denial to discuss coastal issues||The opposition UDF on Tuesday staged a walkout in the Kerala Assembly protesting the Left government's alleged reluctance to discuss issues relating to the coastal belt, which was severely battered by heavy rains recently. The Congress-led opposition demanded that the House take it up for discussion as it was a matter affecting at least one crore people living in the coastal areas of the state. Kundara legislator P C Vishnunath (Congress) sought notice for an adjournment motion seeking to provide an immediate financial assistance to the coastal dwellers to tide over the ongoing crisis. People in the coastal region, especially the fishermen community were in dire straits as severe weather and coastal erosion have devastated their lives and livelihood, he pointed out. Stressing the need for more scientific methods to protect the shores, he said the coasts can no longer be protected through traditional measures and sea walls would not be enough to solve the issues. The geo-tube project, which had failed in the coastal hamlet of Chellanam, was being implemented at Shangumukham, a sought-after local beach here, which was widely damaged recently due to sea incursion and incessant rains,the MLA said. The situation at Chellanam in Ernakulam district was dire, he said adding that the Shangumukham beach was completely damaged. "It has been four years since the Shangumukham road was washed away. During these years, the government has done nothing for its reconstruction. If the authorities do not stay alert, there will be a great danger during the upcoming monsoon season," Vishnunath said. Admitting that the issues of coastal sector was of utmost seriousness,Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said extreme erosion was identified at least in 10 areas across the state. Noting that his government would make serious interventions to protect the entire coastal belt of the southern state, he said a permanent solution would be worked out in the next five years to resolve issues related to sea incursion and rough sea. "Any issue of fishermen will be seen as the problem of the entire state," Vijayan added. Fisheries Minister Saji Cheriyan said the coastal protection measures would be strengthened once the rains subside. The problems of each region need to be studies separately to find out a permanent solution, he added. As speaker M B Rajesh denied leave for the motion based on the government reply, the opposition members protested and staged a walkout.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/oppn-walk-out-from-kerala-assembly-after-denial-to-discuss-coastal-issues-992453.html
01-06-2021||South||Pinarayi Vijayan inaugurates online reopening of schools for academic year 2021-22 due to Covid||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday inaugurated the virtual reopening of the academic session in public schools across the state and urged the students to move forward together to create a new world. Vijayan, while inaugurating the 'Praveshanolsavam' (reception accorded to students who join schools) through an online function for the academic year 2021-22, expressed hope that the time is not far when students will come to schools. Digital classes for classes from 1-9 began today through KITE-Victers channel through its First Bell portal. "The time is not far when students will go to schools wearing new clothes and carrying their schoolbags. Even though students are studying from home due to the pandemic situation, we can jointly move forward to create a new world," Vijayan said. The Chief Minister said the Kerala model of digital education during the Covid-19 pandemic is a successful one worth emulating. Education Minister V Sivankuttty, ministers Antony Raju, G R Anil and others participated in the function. Due to the pandemic, this is the second time the Praveshanolsavam was held virtually. During the function, which was telecast through KITE-Victers channel, film actors Mammootty, Mohanlal, Prithviraj, Suraj Venjaramoodu, poets Sachithanandan, Sreekumaran Thambi, Olympian P T Usha and others wished the students. Muralee Thummarukudy, Chief of Disaster Risk Reduction in the UN Environment Programme, Magician Gopinath Muthukad and Piush Antony, social policy advisor with UNICEF, interacted with the students. The education department said around 45 lakh students took part in the praveshanolsavam. Classes from 10 to 12 will reopen on June 7. Sivankutty said free handloom uniforms and textbooks for Class I-4 students were distributed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pinarayi-vijayan-inaugurates-online-reopening-of-schools-for-academic-year-2021-22-due-to-covid-992498.html
01-06-2021||South||Private hospital charges Rs 19 lakh for treatment of deceased Covid-19 patient in Tamil Nadu||A private hospital in Perumanallur, Tamil Nadu, has allegedly charged Rs 19.05 lakh for the treatment of a Covid-19 patient who died on May 25, after 23 days of suffering from the infection.  The deceased’s two sons, Harikrishnan and Karthikeyan, filed a petition to the Tiruppur District Collector, demanding action against the hospital for allegedly charging them Rs 19.05 lakh for the treatment without any receipt. 62-year-old, M Subramanium was admitted to the hospital when his Covid-19 infection was reportedly mild. After five days, his condition started deteriorating and he was shifted to the ICU. In the petition, it was mentioned that the doctors charged Rs 40,000 per dose of Remdesivir, the publication reported. Later, his health improved with oxygen support and the doctors claimed that he could be discharged upon improvement. However, Subramanium complained of breathing difficulty on May 24. The doctors informed his sons to shift the patient to another hospital in three hours, due to the unavailability of oxygen at their hospital. He died the next day as the new hospital did not have any Non-Invasive Ventilation. After the death of the patient, the first hospital allegedly charged Rs 19.05 lakh to them without any receipt of the treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/private-hospital-charges-rs-19-lakh-for-treatment-of-deceased-covid-19-patient-in-tamil-nadu-992526.html
01-06-2021||South||Lockdown cannot be extended again and again: Tamil Nadu CM Stalin||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Tuesday asked people of the state to follow the Covid-19 restrictions strictly to contain the spread of the coronavirus as the government cannot keep extending lockdown endlessly. In a video message posted on his social media pages and released to media by the government, Stalin said the lockdown imposed in the state on May 10 and intensified from May 24 has yielded results with the number of people getting infected with Covid-19 coming down gradually. “We cannot keep extending the lockdown. We have to put a full stop to this (lockdown). It rests in the hands of the people. If people follow the restrictions imposed by the government, we can put a full stop to the spread,” the Chief Minister said. In his speech, Stalin spoke about the steps that his new government took to augment the health infrastructure after it assumed office on May 7, saying the state has enough supply of oxygen needed for Covid-19 patients and there is no shortage of beds. Talking about the Covid-19 spread, Stalin said the number of cases every day has come down to around 2,000 in Chennai, and that the spread in Coimbatore and other western districts are also showing signs of a decline. “I have dedicated myself to the welfare of the people. Our government has taken several steps in the past three weeks to contain the Covid-19 spread. I admit that lockdown affects the livelihood of several people, and that is the reason we disbursed Rs 2,000 last month, and another Rs 2,000 will be distributed soon,” the Chief Minister said in his message. Admitting that the Covid-19 spread has stressed the finances of the state and the health infrastructure, Stalin said containing the Covid-19 spread soon was imperative to bring in several sweeping changes in many government departments. He also said the state was vaccinating 3 lakh persons, a day while conducting RT-PCR tests on nearly 1.70 lakh persons. Stalin also recalled his visit to the exclusive Corona ward at the Government ESI Medical College and Hospital in Coimbatore wearing personal protective equipment (PPE). “I went to the Covid-19 ward only to instil hope and boost the confidence of those infected with the virus, doctors, and other frontline workers,” Stalin added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/lockdown-cannot-be-extended-again-and-again-tamil-nadu-cm-stalin-992546.html
01-06-2021||South||Poor internet connectivity making online class a challenging task for tribal hamlets in Kerala||Even as the second consecutive academic year in Kerala began with online classes on Tuesday, children of around 400 of the 6,000 odd tribal hamlets of the state are still struggling to get access, that too in a state that boasts of being the first digital state in the country. Owing to the Covid situation, online classes were being conducted for school students by the Kerala government through the government agency Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE) run Victers education channel. The online classes were much popular that there were much viewership from Malyalis in various parts of the world also. Now steps for launching live classes are also being initiated by KITE. But even a year after the launch of online classes, around 400 tribal hamlets, especially in regions in Wayanad, Idukki, Malappuram, Palakkad, Kollam and Pathanamthitta districts, are still struggling to have access. It is with the help of various agencies like the Scheduled Tribes Development Department (STDD), Forest officials, police and volunteers that the students of these regions are getting access to atl east recorded classes through community education centres. According to sources in the STDD, a major hindrance in providing connectivity to the remote tribal hamlets is the difficulty in getting permission for laying cables through forest areas. The department and well as various agencies and voluntary organisations are trying to address this issue to a large extent by installing DTH, but even then many areas were not getting access. At such regions, like Edamalakkuddy in Idukki and Galazi in Attappadi, the classes are delivered by officials by playing the recorded classes in laptops at the community education centres in such hamlets. Evaluation by various agencies on effectiveness of the online classes of last academic year found that only around 67 per cent of the entire students in the state could effectively view the online classes. Poor internet access was a major hurdle not only in the tribal hamlets, but in many high range areas. Unavailability of gadgets like television, computer or mobile as well as lack of initiative of parents were also found to be hurdles in online education. KITE chief executive officer K Anvar Sadath said that the live classes were being planned only at 10th and twelfth standards on an experimental basis by next months. After evaluating the effectiveness and addressing the connectivity issues only full fledged live classes would be possible.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/poor-internet-connectivity-making-online-class-a-challenging-task-for-tribal-hamlets-in-kerala-992556.html
01-06-2021||South||Differences between AINRC, BJP delay Puducherry cabinet expansion||On June 7, N Rangasamy will complete one month as Chief Minister of Puducherry, but there is no sight of him expanding his Cabinet anytime soon due to persisting differences with junior partner BJP, which wants the deputy chief minister post. Sources in the know told DH that Rangasamy is playing hardball with the BJP by offering just two cabinet berths as against the saffron party’s demand for three, including the post of deputy chief minister. While the BJP agreed to Rangasamy being the leader of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in Puducherry, the party, which won six seats in the April 6 polls, sought its pound of flesh. Besides three ministers, the BJP also wants the Speaker’s post for the party, a demand that is being vehemently opposed by the senior partner. BJP’s “unilateral” decision to nominate three party leaders to the Assembly without consulting him – the appointments were made when the Chief Minister was being treated for Covid-19 at a private hospital in Chennai – is said to be one of the reasons behind Rangasamy’s adamant stand vis-à-vis the saffron party. AINRC won 10 seats, while BJP emerged victorious in six seats and its strength in the assembly now stands at 9, thanks to the Centre’s power to appoint three nominated members. DMK won six, Congress (2), and Independents (six). “Rangasamy has made his stand clear that he will give two berths to BJP, and keep three for his party. Also, he has categorically asserted he will not allow BJP to take the Speaker’s post. He is wary of anyone other than his party men holding the post,” a senior leader in the know told DH. The Chief Minister also told BJP leaders that he did not make any commitment towards handing over the deputy CM post to the party at the time of signing the alliance pact, the leader quoted above added. However, the BJP’s seems adamant about joining the Cabinet only with three members – one of them should be designated as deputy chief minister. “We have made our stand clear on what we want. It is now for the Chief Minister to decide. Our strength is nine, including the nominated members, and our demands are justified by any measure,” a BJP leader said. The absence of cabinet ministers is also hampering the Covid-19 containment efforts in the tiny Union Territory which is reporting a high number of cases for the past few weeks. BJP, which lost all seats it contested in 2016 assembly polls, allied with AINRC, and AIADMK for the April 6 elections. The party which lacked a toehold in the Union Territory till a few months ago poached a few senior Congress leaders and gave them seats to contest. BJP also got nine seats in the alliance much higher than AIADMK which had four members in the previous assembly – the party drew a blank this time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/differences-between-ainrc-bjp-delay-puducherry-cabinet-expansion-992583.html
01-06-2021||South||Covid-19 vaccination to continue in Tamil Nadu as Centre sends Centre sends 4.2 lakh doses||The Covid-19 vaccination drive in Tamil Nadu, which picked up pace only last week, will continue uninterrupted with the Centre sending in 4.20 lakh doses of Covishield on Tuesday evening. The state on Tuesday morning announced that it will stop the vaccination drive for a few days after it ran out of supplies sent by the Centre, and those it procured from vaccine manufacturers directly. However, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said in the evening that the drive will continue uninterrupted as fresh supplies have come from the Centre. “The stock that we have now will run out by Tuesday or Wednesday. We had decided to suspend the vaccination drive for a few days but since the fresh supplies have come, we will ensure that vaccination is carried out uninterrupted,” Subramanian told reporters here. As many as 4.20 lakh doses of Covishield were sent by the Centre to be administered among those above the age of 45. Subramanian said the vaccine doses will be sent to districts by Tuesday night.  The state had as of May 31 received 82.49 lakh doses of Covishield and Covaxin from the Centre to be administered to those above 45 years of age, while 13.10 lakh was received from vaccine manufacturers under the state quota. Vaccination drive, which was quite slow in Tamil Nadu, picked up pace in the past week with those belonging to 18-44 years of age coming in droves to get vaccinated. As of Monday night, 89.32 lakh doses had been administered to people in Tamil Nadu. The Centre has increased the allocation to Tamil Nadu for June has been increased to 42.58 lakh. The state government has floated a global tender for buying 3.5 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines to be administered to those belonging to 18-44 years of age. The state has also asked the Centre to give the Integrated Vaccine Complex (IVC) on the outskirts of Chennai to it on lease to produce vaccines by a private player.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-vaccination-to-continue-in-tamil-nadu-as-centre-sends-centre-sends-42-lakh-doses-992604.html
01-06-2021||South||Customs may serve notice to UAE consulate officials in gold smuggling case||The Customs Preventive wing in Kochi is likely to serve notices to UAE consulate officials in connection with the gold smuggling case. According to sources, the Customs received nod from Ministry of External Affairs for proceeding against the consulate officials having diplomatic protection.  UAE former consul general Jamal al-Zabi and attache and charge d affairs of the consulate Rashid Khamis Al Ashmia were likely to be issued notices in the case. Both of them had reportedly left the country after the gold smuggling case surfaced. Accused in the gold smuggling case had revealed to the Customs about the involvement of the two consulate officials in the gold smuggling and both were also suspected to have received huge kickbacks. The gold was suspected to be smuggled using the diplomatic tag for over 20 times through Thiruvananthapuram airport.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/customs-may-serve-notice-to-uae-consulate-officials-in-gold-smuggling-case-992609.html
01-06-2021||South||Kerala HC directs Lakshadweep to frame guidelines on Covid-19 patients' evacuation||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday directed the Lakshadweep administration to bring in guidelines on evacuation of Covid-19 patients from the islands to Kochi. The Lakshadweep administration led by Praful Khoda Patel had recently decided to impose restrictions on evacuation of Covid patients by airlifting them to Kochi. This had triggered strong protest. Considering a petition challenging this, a division bench of the High Court directed that the committee formed by the Lakshadweep administration for screening the evacuation requests should formulate the guidelines. The court would consider the petition again next week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-hc-directs-lakshadweep-to-frame-guidelines-on-covid-19-patients-evacuation-992653.html
01-06-2021||South||Kerala Industries Minister admitted to hospital after testing positive for Covid-19||Kerala Industries Minister P Rajeev has been admitted to the Government Medical College hospital here after he tested positive for Covid-19, official sources said on Tuesday. Rajeev, who has received two doses of Covid-19 vaccine, tested positive this morning, they said. In a Facebook post, the minister advised those who had been in contact with him in the last few days to be vigilant. He said he was suffering from coldlast night and decided to go for an antigen test this morning as he wanted to attend the ongoing session of the state Assembly.  Rajeev, a former Rajya Sabha MP, won from Kalamassery constituency in Ernakulam district in the April 6 assembly polls. The CPI(M) state secretariat member became the new industries minister in the cabinet of the Pinarayi Vijayan-led LDF government which was voted to power for a second successive term||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-industries-minister-admitted-to-hospital-after-testing-positive-for-covid-19-992654.html
01-06-2021||South||Special wards to treat 'black fungus' patients in Tamil Nadu govt hospitals||Tamil Nadu government on Tuesday issued an advisory to medical practitioners and health care institutions on managing mucormycosis or 'black fungus' by asking them to follow up with Covid-19 patients on the occurrence of the disease. Health Minister Ma Subramanian said as many as 518 patients were diagnosed with mucormycosis, of which 17 have lost their lives. He was speaking to reporters after inaugurating a dedicated ward at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) in Chennai for patients diagnosed with mucormycosis. The minister said such dedicated wards will be opened at all government medical college hospitals in the state. Meanwhile, the Health Department issued an advisory to medical practitioners and institutions to report the existence of the disease and give appropriate IEC to mild cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/special-wards-to-treat-black-fungus-patients-in-tamil-nadu-govt-hospitals-992663.html
01-06-2021||State||Three districts in Karnataka have less than 20 paediatricians each||Amid the impending threat to children in the third Covid-19 wave, data collated by the Indian Academy of Paediatrics (IAP) revealed that Chamarajanagar, Yadgir and Chikkaballapur districts have just eight, 15 and 16 paediatricians respectively in government and private sectors. Chamarajanagar district officials acknowledged that they had only eight paediatricians for a population of 1.2 lakh children aged 0-14 years. Surprisingly, only one of them is a neonatologist. Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi said, “We have four paediatricians in the district hospital and three or four more in the peripheral health centres. Last week, we got three additional paediatricians. Around 1,600 to 1,800 children up to 15 years of age have been infected in the second wave alone.  “Projections for the third wave say 6% of children infected may need hospitalisation. Currently, 1.2% of paediatric cases reported in the district have required hospitalisation.”  This works out to 225 children less than 10 years of age, said Ravi. “We are expecting 450 paediatric cases in the third wave. I need four doctors for 24 hours as they can wear a PPE only for six hours. It is a challenge. We need more paediatricians,” he said.  Ravi has asked for a report from his district’s paediatricians on available human resources, paediatric medical equipment and paediatric bed capacity. Yadgir district on the other hand has had 1,070 children aged 0-14 years who tested Covid-19-19 positive so far out of which there are 144 active cases. District health officer Dr Indumati Kamshetty said, “Twelve paediatricians are in the private sector. Three are in the government sector manning two taluk hospitals and one district hospital. Additionally, two medicos are here as part of their compulsory rural service and will leave in September this year.  “Twenty per cent of our 14.3 lakh population are aged below 14 years. Luckily, all infected children were home isolated and no deaths were reported. We have vacancies for five paediatricians. I am told we have been allotted more but are yet to receive the list.” There are two lakh children in Chikkabalapur district and 2,000 of them have got Covid-19-19 so far. In all, there are 16 paediatricians to treat them. IAP has formed committees for micro-planning to address the shortage. “Training for MBBS doctors and available paediatricians is underway. The training was undertaken over the past month via webinars. Training of ASHA workers is also in the pipeline. Some taluks have just one or two paediatricians, most of them private,” said IAP State Secretary Dr Amaresh Patil.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/three-districts-in-karnataka-have-less-than-20-paediatricians-each-992308.html
01-06-2021||State||Karnataka faces oxygen shortage even as active Covid-19 cases remain high||The supply of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) under the central quota to Karnataka, to sustain Covid-19 patients on ventilators, has been way less than the demand of 1,200 tonnes daily. This is despite Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa's letter to the Centre and the Karnataka High Court directive to supply the state's share of oxygen, officials said. According to the data shared by the authorities, on May 30, the state received half of the requirement — 545.85 tonnes of oxygen with a shortfall of 654.15 tonnes. Besides, it received 791.85 tonnes on May 29, 686 tonnes on May 28, 730 tonnes on May 27, 875.07 tonnes on May 26 and 728 tonnes on May 24. The eight oxygen-producing units in Karnataka, which are located in different parts of the state, are the major source of medical oxygen though they too are unable to meet the demand. On May 30, the state manufacturer supplied 425.85 tonnes of oxygen against the target of 830 tonnes daily, 572 tonnes on May 29, 446 tonnes on May 28 and 730 tonnes on May 27. Apart from the state oxygen-producing units, Karnataka is receiving oxygen from Tata Angul, Jamnagar and Rourkela Steel plant. During the second wave of Covid-19, which began approximately in the first week of March this year, the daily infections hovered between 40,000 to 50,000. Due to stringent restrictions from April 27 which will be in effect till June 7, the cases came down drastically. On Monday, the state reported 16,604 fresh infections and 411 fatalities due to Covid-19 whereas there were 3.14 lakh active cases. However, the demand for oxygen remained high in view of the high number of active cases in the state. "We still need 1,200 tonnes of oxygen, but we are getting way less than it," an official told PTI requesting anonymity. According to him, the Chief Minister has written to the Centre to increase the supply of oxygen and the High Court has also ordered the Centre to give Karnataka its share of LMO.  "The Government of India has ordered but outside supply isn't coming. We have written on that," the official added. Meanwhile, the South Western Railway on Tuesday said it ferried about 240 tonnes of oxygen in Karnataka. The Oxygen Express brought 120 tonnes of LMO from Jamshedpur and 119.64 tonnes from Raigad in Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-faces-oxygen-shortage-even-as-active-covid-19-cases-remain-high-992452.html
01-06-2021||State||Take clear stand on online betting, HC tells Karnataka govt||The High Court on Tuesday directed the state government to take a clear stand on the issue of online gambling. A division bench, headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, was hearing a PIL filed seeking a ban on all types of online betting and gambling until regulations are framed. During the hearing, the government advocate submitted that the central government would have to be made a party to the petition since gambling is online and people download the apps across India. However, the counsel for the petitioner contended betting and gambling are state subjects according to the provisions of the Constitution. The bench further noted that The Online Rummy Federation (TORF), a Mumbai-based non-profit society, impleaded in the case as a respondent, had also submitted a representation to the state government seeking regulation to be formulated. The petitioners had also claimed that the government had not acted on the representations seeking forming regulations. The court reiterated that the state government should file on record its stand on the issue before a decision on making centre as a party to the petitions is taken. The matter has been posted to June 22 for the state government to make its stand clear on the issue. The PIL is filed by D R Sharada, a resident of Davangere. The petition said the state government has not created any regulatory regime and regulations for regulating online games, gambling or betting of any nature. The gullible and hapless sections of society, particularly the youth, are falling prey to online gambling and betting in the midst of a pandemic situation, it stated. On the other hand, TORF has claimed Rummy as a game of skill and not gambling as such and thus exempted from the applicability of the penal provisions. It also said that the policy prohibits the use of automated players (technically known as ‘BOTS’) and an in house policy that precludes employees from playing real money games on the platform.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/take-clear-stand-on-online-betting-hc-tells-karnataka-govt-992611.html
01-06-2021||State||Karnataka sets 135.8 lakh tonnes food grains target||The government has set a target of producing 135.48 lakh tonnes of food grains in the state during the current year. This target is below the record yield of 153.08 lakh tonnes in the last fiscal. During a meeting held to discuss measures taken to prepare for monsoon season, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said that the government would ensure the availability of DAP and Urea (fertilizers) to the farmers on time. Noting that the government was yet to release Rs 1,067 crore for the crops purchased under the Minimum Support Price, he directed officials to immediately release Rs 250 crore. Measures taken to prevent floods and landslides were also discussed in the meeting. While action plans to tackle natural disasters are being formulated at the gram panchayat level, deputy commissioners of all districts were directed to be alert during the monsoon season to prevent any untoward incidents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-sets-1358-lakh-tonnes-food-grains-target-992612.html
01-06-2021||State||Paediatric ward to come up in all district hospitals in Karnataka: Health Minister K Sudhakar||To prepare for a possible third wave, the government has decided to set up paediatric wards in all district hospitals, said Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar here on Tuesday. He said oxygen generation plants will be set up in taluk hospitals and district hospitals across the state. A dedicated 70-80 bed paediatric ward will be set up in all district hospitals. Additional paediatricians and nursing staff will be recruited wherever necessary. A special training session will be conducted through Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences to train MBBS students and other technical staff, Sudhakar said. Genomic sequencing Seven genomic labs will be established across the state to study the mutated strains found in the second wave. These labs will come up at five medical colleges, Wenlock Hospital, Mangaluru and Vijayapura district hospital. This study will help in understanding the virus better and for the development of better medicine and treatment protocol, based on the nature of the virus. Vaccine supply The state has received another consignment of 1.64 lakh doses of Covaxin. The available stock will be used to vaccinate citizens above 45 years who are due for second dose. Vaccine will be eventually made available to all once the supply increases, he said. Kawasaki disease It is reported that two kids whose parents have recovered from Covid might have contracted the Kawasaki disease. Malnutrition and other social factors are among the causes for this. The government is closely tracking such cases, he said. It is a condition that causes inflammation in the walls of some blood vessels in the body. It’s most common in infants and young children. The early stages cause rashes and fever. Symptoms include high fever and the skin peeling off.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/paediatric-ward-to-come-up-in-all-district-hospitals-in-karnataka-health-minister-k-sudhakar-992613.html
01-06-2021||State||Education department digs deep into its funds for aid to private school teachers||The reluctance by the government school teachers to chip in for the financial aid of their counterparts working with private unaided schools who are in financial distress has forced the department of primary and secondary education to look for funds in its bank accounts. In a communication to all officials concerned of the department issued on May 28, the department has asked to provide details about the funds available in bank accounts under various heads.  Primary and Secondary Education Minister Suresh Kumar had appealed to the government school teachers to donate their salaries for four to five days, to help provide financial packages to private unaided school staffers who are in financial distress due to the pandemic. But the government school teachers are reluctant to contribute. Though they had agreed to this during a meeting with the minister, the Karnataka State Primary School Teachers Association said ‘no’ to the request, following a meeting of its members. As per the estimation by the department officials, the one-day salary of state government school and pre-university college teachers comes to Rs 27 crore. “As we need at least Rs 200 crore to provide financial package for private school teachers, the minister sought a donation of salary of more days. But now, we have no other option than digging into the available funds,” said a senior official from the department. The copy of a communication which reads ‘very urgent,’ from the principal secretary of the department to the commissioner for public instruction, which is available with DH, reads, “The staffers with private unaided schools and PU colleges are struggling in their day-to-day lives due to the pandemic. Following suggestions from the chief minister, it is necessary to announce a package, utilising the funds available within the department. In this regard, kindly provide details about the available funds in the various bank accounts of thedepartment.” As mentioned in the communication, the department is looking to utilise funds available with the Centralised Admission Cell, Karnataka State Students and Teachers Welfare Fund, Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board and Karnataka Pre-university Examination Board.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/education-department-digs-deep-into-its-funds-for-aid-to-private-school-teachers-992614.html
01-06-2021||State||Rs 500 crore mining royalty to be used for tackling Covid-19: Murugesh Nirani||Mines and Geology Minister Murugesh Nirani said the Union government has approved the utilisation of 33% of the royalty collected from the mining sector in the state for the purchase of necessary medical equipment to treat Covid-19 cases. At a press conference here on Tuesday, he said "A royalty of Rs 2,400 crore has been collected from mining activities in the state in the last three years. An action plan has been prepared to use about Rs 800 crore to provide basic facilities in mining-hit areas. Also, about 33% of the amount --- about Rs 500 crore --- will be used for Covid-19 management." Nirani said the funds will be spent through the respective deputy commissioners. They will be authorised to purchase the necessary medical equipment required for the treatment of Covid-19 patients, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rs-500-crore-mining-royalty-to-be-used-for-tackling-covid-19-murugesh-nirani-992620.html
01-06-2021||State||Covid-19 effect: Elephant Kusha yet to be released into forest||Covid-19 regulations have resulted in the delay in the implementation of the government’s order to release the captive elephant Kusha into the forest from Dubare elephant camp here, according to the forest department sources. The senior officials said that measures will be taken to release the elephant once the situation improves. Kusha, who had left the camp a year ago for mating, did not return to the camp. The forest department captured him and brought back to the camp.  However, he did not oblige his mahout and was confined to the kraal once again for training. Animal enthusiasts, condemning the department’s move, alleged that it has been depriving the elephant from its natural habitat. The elephant was also separated from its mate, which can have a psychological impact on the animal, they said. The animal lovers also pointed out that the elephant was tied with metal chains. A letter in this regard was sent to MP Maneka Gandhi who eventually asked the experts from the People for Animal organisation --- Savitha Nagabhushan and Dr Amar Deep Singh --- to visit Dubare and inspect the health of Kusha. Meanwhile, Forest Minister Aravinda Limbavali convened a meeting of the officials and issued an order to release Kushal back into the forest. It has been a month since the order was issued by the government. But, the authorities at the Dubare Elephant Camp did not release the pachyderm, as a precautionary measure against Covid-19. The entry of people from outside has been banned into the camp. The health of all elephants, their mahouts and kavadis in the camp is being closely monitored during the second wave of Covid-19, said, the forest officials said. The authorities said that they might require more time to place a radio collar on Kusha and release him into the forest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-effect-elephant-kusha-yet-to-be-released-into-forest-992626.html
01-06-2021||State||Decision on II PU exam soon, says Karnataka Education Minister S Suresh Kumar||The Karnataka government was left anxious on Tuesday, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi announcing the cancellation of CBSE exams for class 12.  In a swift turn of events since the announcement, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said that the state government will soon take an appropriate decision on holding II PU exams.  Following the announcement by the Centre, several students, parents and other stakeholders started flooding queries to the department of education, seeking clarity on the examination. Many of them took to social media platforms to express their concern and exert pressure on the government for a similar decision in Karnataka. Further, several parliamentarians, including Bangalore Central MP P C Mohan, hailed the Centre's decision to cancel the CBSE board exams. However, Mohan did not have an answer to people's queries on what would their (BJP) government in Karnataka do?  Student groups and parents' associations in Karnataka have demanded that the state government must cancel the II PU examination, keeping in mind the surging second wave of Covid, besides experts warning about a possible third wave in the next few months. In fact, during the meeting with the education ministers from all states convened by the Centre recently, Suresh Kumar had expressed the wish to hold exams for class 12 students.  Responding to queries from various sections of the society, Kumar said in a statement that a suitable decision will be taken after analysing the situation in the state.  "We will announce a suitable decision soon after analysing the situation in Karnataka. We will consider the opinions expressed by various stakeholders while taking a decision in the interests of students," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/decision-on-ii-pu-exam-soon-says-karnataka-education-minister-s-suresh-kumar-992644.html
01-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Decision on KPSC scam 'legally and morally' incorrect: Experts||The Karnataka Cabinet decision withdrawing sanction for prosecution of the former Karnataka Public Service Commission chairman and nine members in connection with alleged irregularities in the recruitment of gazetted probationers of the 2011 batch could end up being a legal quagmire. Legal experts feel that there are enough grounds to challenge the decision, which is "legally or morally" incorrect, and the government should have allowed the courts to decide the 2011 case rather than adopt the "protectionist" policy. Candidates affected adversely by the 2011 scam wonder on whom the government would fix the responsibility or if all 362 of them selected that year will be absorbed, even as their decade-long struggle continues. Speaking to DH, former Supreme Court judge and Lokayukta Justice N Santosh Hegde said that the Cabinet decision reflected some sort of "protectionist activity" to save somebody. "Prima facie, in my opinion, this is a clear case in which (prosecution) sanction should have been given. Refusal of sanction should normally be an exception," he said, noting that the government should have left this to the courts to decide. Former advocate-general Ashok Haranahalli said that the decision to refuse prosecution sanction against those involved in selecting 362 candidates in 2011, does not mean that they can now be absorbed into government service. "This is not an easy issue as the Cabinet decision can be challenged in Court. What will happen in the case remains to be seen," he said. According to High Court lawyer Vikram Phadke, the decision was "legally and morally" wrong, irrespective of the reasons the government had to take such a call. Meanwhile, candidates who lost out due to the alleged irregularities in KPSC recruitment in 2011 are expected to approach the Court against the decision. "Many of us have lost several years due to the irregularities. If nobody in KPSC was guilty for the mess, who is responsible then?" Srinath K, one of the candidates asked. Of the 362 selected in 2011, around 140 cleared the exams subsequently in 2014 and 2015. "For many candidates, 2011 was the last opportunity for them to appear for exams. The government should at least consider them providing them another chance to appear as the alleged scam cost them their career," another candidate said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/decision-on-kpsc-scam-legally-and-morally-incorrect-experts-992412.html
01-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Start genomic sampling of paediatric Covid-19 samples, check antibodies in children immediately: TAC||Amidst a slew of recommendations made by the Karnataka Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) on the third wave and its impact on children, the body has asked the state to immediately start genomic sampling of paediatric Covid-19 samples and check coronavirus antibodies in children. The TAC meeting held on Sunday was related to the possible next wave, existing lockdown in the state, the vulnerability of children in the next wave, testing and vaccination strategy, reopening of schools, the conduct of examinations during the current scenario, and clinical preparedness for the next wave, etc. After many rounds of discussions, the following recommendations were made: Continuation of lockdown in the State TAC found that the state as on May 30, had 20,372 new cases, of which Bengaluru Urban had 4,734 cases, and active cases were around 3,42,010. Bengaluru Urban had 1,62,625 cases. The State test positivity rate (TPR) was 15 per cent, and the case fatality rate (CFR) was 1.87 per cent. "The current lockdown is till June 7. The general advisory from the Government of India recommends the continuation of restrictions till the end of June 2021 on the condition, in the districts having a TPR of more than 10 per cent and oxygenated bed occupancy of more than 60 per cent," the TAC report said.  "In this context, TAC recommends further continuation of lockdown in a stricter form in the state as a whole “placing lives before livelihoods” to achieve – TPR < 5 per cent, daily new cases - < 5,000 and CFR <1 per cent. This shall be reviewed on a weekly basis for any relaxations and concessions. Whenever unlocking is considered, the approach used in 2020 from June-November shall be used as a basis for a graded and phase-wise relaxation of imposed restrictions that shall be carefully allowed," the report further added. Exams for classes 10 and 12 The experts said that conducting board examinations for Class 10 and Class 12 in the current scenario of Covid-19 in the state is very challenging and if the examinations are to be conducted it is strongly recommended to provide “a special SOP” for this purpose. The teachers shall be well trained, and necessary facilities should be arranged, the report said. It recommended a special vaccination drive to be planned to provide at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine to all those engaged in examination work and engage those who are already vaccinated. Next wave of Covid-19  The ongoing second wave of Covid-19 in the state is expected to recede by the end of June 2021. Between the first and second waves of Covid-19, the increase in magnitude of the problem in the paediatric population was as follows: 0-9 years age group: 4 per cent increase in mortality and 43 per cent rise in the number of cases, and 10-19 years age group: 6 per cent increase in mortality and 60 per cent rise in the number of cases, TAC observed. Based on the current data of Covid-19 disease, testing, vaccination, the Karnataka government's Covid-19 surveys 1 and 2, waning of Covid-19 antibodies in the infected individuals, reinfections, mobility in the districts, Covid appropriate behaviour (CAB) in the populations, etc, the TAC drew the conclusions that the next wave of Covid-19 in the state is expected during October- November, 2021.  TAC recommended that the intervening period of four months shall be used to ramp up clinical facilities, training and deployment of human resources, etc and fulfill other related requirements. "There shall be special attention to meet the requirements of facilities for clinical management of Covid-19 in children at the Community Health Centre, taluk, and district levels. As parents may act as caregivers in the hospitals, this shall be factored in the planning for PPE kits, N-95 masks, resting facilities in the hospitals, etc," the TAC report noted.  Procure Pfizer vaccine for children Sampling for genomic sequencing (for variants of virus) and serology (anti-covid antibodies) from children shall be started immediately. "The Government of Karnataka shall seek from the Government of India on priority vaccines recommended for use in children like from Pfizer and others, and start vaccination in children. A letter from Government of Karnataka shall be sent to Government of India immediately in this regard," the report said.  The testing coverage shall improve once the imposed restrictions and lockdown are removed. Vulnerable groups in the age group of 18-44 years, particularly parents of school going children, shall receive the vaccine on priority.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/start-genomic-sampling-of-paediatric-covid-19-samples-check-antibodies-in-children-immediately-tac-992439.html
01-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Siddaramaiah admitted to Manipal hospital due to fever||Senior Congress leader and Leader of Opposition in Karnataka Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah has been admitted to a private hospital as he has developed fever, his office said on Tuesday. Doctors have said that his condition is stable, his office said in a statement. Stating that the former Chief Minister underwent Covid-19 test after developing fever last night, it said, his reports have come negative. On the advice of the doctor, Siddaramaiah has undergone a complete check at the hospital and the results of his second Covid-19 test too has come negative, it further said, adding he will remain in the hospital for two days, as per doctors' advice. Noting that Siddaramiah has been admitted for evaluation of fever, Manipal hospital in a statement said, "He was tested for Covid-19 which is negative at present. Currently, he is stable and is being appropriately investigated and treated by a team of medical experts." The 72-year-old leader was earlier admitted to the hospital on August 3, 2020, for urinary infection and subsequently had tested positive for the coronavirus infection. He was discharged after about ten days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/siddaramaiah-admitted-to-manipal-hospital-due-to-fever-992572.html
01-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||BJP MLA Yatnal hits out at CM B S Yediyurappa's son||BJP MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, for long at loggerheads with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa over a host of issues, on Tuesday hit out at his son and party state vice president B Y Vijayendra' visit to Delhi, alleging that he was "running the government in Karnataka." He said Yediyurappa himself should have left for the national capital and not his son, who left for Delhi on Tuesday, as he has no role to play since it pertains to government matters. "This shows that this is not Yediyurappa's government, but that of Vijayendra. That's why we oppose this government," Yatnal told reporters. Yatnal claimed the Central leadership had sought reports on a few issues including the proposal to sell land to JSW Group in Ballari region and Covid-19 management, over which they were unhappy. "Our high command has taken a serious view of giving away 3,666 acres of land at Rs 1.2 lakh per acre. Also, the Centre is not happy with the Covid-19 management," he said. Though the proposal to sell the land to JSW Group was on the agenda in the recent Cabinet meeting, it was dropped owing to protests from from both within the government and outside. About a month ago Vijayendra had gone to Delhi with Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, triggering speculations of a possible change of leadership. There were rumours that the Centre wanted Bommai to replace Yediyurappa as the BJP high command was not happy with the functioning of the government. Bommai had dismissed all such rumours as false. Recently, speculations were again rife when Revenue Minister R Ashoka conceded that some MLAs and ministers have been organising meetings to effect a change in leadership. There were allegations that Tourism Minister C P Yogeeshwar was at the centre of the 'conspiracy', but he has remained silent on the issue Many ministers and MLAs loyal to Yediyurappa have demanded the removal of Yogeeshwar. Yatnal, however, said no one can remove the minister as the Yediyurappa government would not survive. "The Yediyurappa government will not survive if Yogeeshwar is removed. Yogeeshwar can even come back with the Energy portfolio," Yatnal added. The Vijayapura MLA has for long been at loggerheads with Yediyurappa and Vijayendra over scores of issues and even demanded that the Central leadership "not encourage dynastic politics and corruption" in BJP's Karnataka unit, a reference to Vijayendra and his brother B Y Raghavendra, an MP from Shimoga constituency, allegedly running affairs of the state. Meanwhile, BJP sources said Vijayendra's Delhi trip has nothing to do with state politics and it was for a function. "He has gone on a family trip to Delhi to attend a function. He is accompanied by his wife and others," a BJP leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bjp-mla-yatnal-hits-out-at-cm-b-s-yediyurappas-son-992574.html
01-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Deputy CM hints at phased unlock after June 7||Amid speculation about extension of the lockdown, Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister on Tuesday said it is a "guarantee" that the state will start the unlock process after June 7, as he hinted that it will be phased lifting of curbs. The state is currently under lockdown till June 7, and there were speculations about it being extended. "Let's see, whether unlocking should be done at once or in a phased manner is the question. Unlock is guarantee, after June 7...how to do it is the question, there are no plans of doing it at once, it may be in a phased manner," Narayan said in response to a question on the future of lockdown in the current situation. Speaking to reporters here, he said the government is gathering opinion from experts and others and a decision will be taken after considering all aspects. However, Health Minister K Sudhakar too, while hinting about phased unlocking, said that the state's Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee has suggested that the strict restrictions can be relaxed once daily cases come down below 5,000 mark. "They (TAC) have said the (positivity) rate has to come below 5 per cent and number of cases (fresh) should be below 5,000, only then the restrictions can be relaxed and until then the strict measures that are in place should be continued," he said. The Health Minister said that he has submitted the TAC's report to the Chief Minister and discussed it. "The CM has said that whenever we go for unlocking, it should also be in a staggered manner." "If unlocking is done it should be in a phased manner and it cannot be done at once, because the decline is not to the level of our expectations or to that of the TAC, though cases have come down, it is still not below 5 per cent. In several districts as the numbers are still a bit more, we will have to be cautious," he added. The Karnataka government had initially announced 14 days "closedown" from April 27, but subsequently imposed a complete lockdown from May 10 to May 24, as the Covid cases continued to spike. Citing lockdown yielding results and experts advice, it was further extended till June 7.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-deputy-cm-hints-at-phased-unlock-after-june-7-992584.html
01-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's active Covid-19 caseload falls below three lakh||The total number of active Covid-19 cases fell below the three lakh mark on Tuesday as the Karnataka reported a further decline in fresh infections with 14,304 cases and 464 fatalities. The total number of active cases currently in the state is 2,98,299. While the total number of cases stood at 26,18,735, the total death toll was 29,554. The day also saw 29,271 discharges, continuing to outnumber the fresh cases. Out of the 14,304 new cases reported on Tuesday, 3,418 were from Bengaluru Urban and the city also saw 276 deaths. Cumulatively, there were 22,90,861 recoveries in the state.  While the positivity rate stood at 12.30%, the case fatality rate (CFR) was 3.24 %. Of the 464 deaths reported on Tuesday, 276 were from Bengaluru Urban followed by Belagavi (19), Mysuru (15), Ballari (14), Shivamogga (13), Bengaluru Rural and Hassan (11). Among the districts where new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 3,418, Mysuru 1,153, Hassan 1,127, Belagavi 891, Tumakuru 769, Udupi 735, followed by others. A total of over 2,98,53,184 samples have been tested so far, out of which 1,16,224 were done on Tuesday alone.  Of the 464 deaths reported on Tuesday, 276 were from Bengaluru Urban, Belagavi (19), Mysuru (15), Ballari (14), Shivamogga (13), Bengaluru Rural and Hassan (11), followed by others. Among the districts where new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 3,418, Mysuru 1,153, Hassan 1,127, Belagavi 891, Tumakuru 769, Udupi 735, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district headed the list of positive cases, with a total of 11,66,647, followed by Mysuru 1,43,968 and Tumakuru 1,04,134. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban was on top with 10,09,322, followed by Mysuru 1,27,723 and Tumakuru 91,392. A total of over 2,98,53,184 samples have been tested so far, out of which 1,16,224 were done on Tuesday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-active-covid-19-caseload-falls-below-three-lakh-992591.html
01-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Continue Covid-19 lockdown in Karnataka, says technical panel||The Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) has recommended that the lockdown be continued in Karnataka, post-June 7. TAC considered the May 30 data when the state reported 20,378 new cases, of which Bengaluru Urban had 4,734 cases, and active cases were around 3.42 lakh. Bengaluru Urban had 1,62,625 active cases. The state test positivity rate (TPR) was 15%, and the case fatality rate (CFR) was 1.87%. “The current lockdown is till June 7. The general advisory from the Government of India recommends the continuation of restrictions till the end of June 2021 on the condition, in the districts having a TPR of more than 10% and oxygenated bed occupancy of more than 60%,” the TAC report said. “In this context, TAC recommends further continuation of lockdown in a stricter form in the state as a whole “placing lives before livelihoods” to achieve – TPR less than 5%, daily new cases less than 5,000 and CFR less than 1%.  This shall be reviewed on a weekly basis for any relaxations and concessions. Whenever unlocking is considered, the approach used in 2020 from June-November shall be used as a basis for a graded and phase-wise relaxation of imposed restrictions that shall be carefully allowed,” the report added. Exams for classes 10, 12 The conduct of board examinations for Class 10 and Class 12 in the current scenario of Covid-19 in the state is very challenging and if the examinations are to be conducted, it is strongly recommended to provide “a special SOP” for this purpose and the teachers shall be well trained and necessary facilities are arranged, the report said. A special vaccination drive may be planned to provide at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine to all those engaged in examination work or engage those who are already vaccinated. “The Technical Advisory Committee has submitted its report and the CM will decide on modalities of easing restrictions gradually. Experts have advised that restrictions can be eased if the positivity rate is less than 5% and the number of cases reduces to 5,000. However, the positivity rate is still high in many districts. So we need to exercise caution,” Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/continue-covid-19-lockdown-in-karnataka-says-technical-panel-992610.html
01-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Study finds under-reporting of Covid-19 cases, deaths in Karnataka||Research by scientists at the University of Michigan and Karnataka suggests that there is under-reporting of Covid-19 deaths and cases in Karnataka and across India. As per their study, titled 'Estimating Covid-19 related mortality in India: An epidemiological challenge with insufficient data,' the researchers, including noted epidemiologist Dr Giridhar Babu, suggests that the under-reporting factor is between 10 to 20 per case of infection and between two and five per death reported in the second wave. The scientists said that using epidemiological models and seroprevalence surveys allowed them to determine the under-reporting factor, based on data from the first wave in India. Dr Bhramar Mukherjee, Professor of Epidemiology at the University of Michigan, told DH that anecdotal and media reports had corroborated their model estimates.  The researchers said in the study: “Recently, an excess death calculation based on comparing death certificates issued in the state of Gujarat showed that while the state reported 4,218 Covid-19 deaths from March 1 to May 10, 2021, an estimated 61,000 excess deaths remained uncounted, indicating an under-reporting factor of nearly 15.” For the study, which is under peer review, the authors considered Karnataka, Maharashtra, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Punjab and Gujarat. Prof Bhramar said Bengaluru may have suffered over 10,000 deaths just from January to July 2020. Officially, up to the end of July, the city had only 1,029 deaths. Sanjeev Mysore, convenor of the Jeevan Raksha data analysis group, said under-reporting is common. “As per the World Health Organization (WHO), the global actual Covid-19 death is 2-3 times higher than the disclosed number. India is no exception,” he said. He said auditing Covid-19 deaths is particularly tricky in India. “In the United States, the chances of under-reporting deaths is relatively low because of the stringent control the insurance industry has laid down to protect their interests. Deaths are audited as matter of fact because of insurance. In India, less than 10% of the people are insured. There is no compelling reason for the state administration to disclose the accurate number of deaths and invite wrath from the general public, media, and moreover from the political establishment,” he said. Acute in Bengaluru slums The problem of under-reporting of cases and deaths is especially acute in the city’s 597 slum areas, said Aysha Abdullah of the United Foundation, an NGO which works in slum areas. “There is a general stigma within slum dwellers about testing and going to hospitals. Many are dying without ever being tested,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/study-finds-under-reporting-of-covid-19-cases-deaths-in-karnataka-992633.html
01-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||B Y Vijayendra meets Arun Singh, suggests overhaul Karnataka BJP unit||Amid a section of leaders from the party pushing to unseat Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, his son B Y Vijayendra on Tuesday met BJP National General Secretary (in charge Karnataka) Arun Singh and emphasised the need for strengthen the party in the state. Vijayendra, who is on a two-day private visit to the national capital, met Singh in undisclosed place to avoid media glare, sources in the BJP said. During the meeting, Vijayendra is learnt to have suggested the party leader to complete overhaul of the state unit. Bringing to the notice of Singh about continued attack by Bijapur MLA and former Union Minister Basanagouda Patil Yatnal and Tourism Minister C P Yogeeshwar's act of "mobilising" MLAs against the CM and their family members, Vijayendra said due to a weak state leadership, these activities continued. Unless the state leaders stop attacking the CM, these activities would damage the government image severely, Vijayendra is learnt to have told Singh. While conveying recent decsion of reversal of the earlier cabinet decision to allot lands to JSW steel factory in Bellari, Vijayedra said the government took this decision on popular demand from the state leaders and prevent the image that the government is pro-corporate, sources said. Vijayendra, who is also state unit vice president, meeting Singh came in the background of party top leaders refusing to meet Tourism Minister C P Yogeeshwar and Hubballi-Dharwad (West) MLA Arvind Bellad, who came to Delhi last week to demand the Delhi leaders to complain against Yediyurappa. With the section of party top brass in Delhi were in the view that there was an urgent need for total overhaul of the state unit and complete reshuffle of the Yediyurappa-headed cabinet, Singh is learnt to have discussed on the issue also, sources said. Though some section of state leaders wanted immediate changing of the CM, Singh is of the view that wider discussion is required on the issue, sources said. With complaints pouring in about the handling of Covid-19 pandemic in the state, Singh is learnt to have said that the party may ask the CM to complete reshuffle his cabinet soon by dropping some ministers. The party top brass was also in the view that the state unit has failed to come to rescue of people during the pandemic. The state party leaders also failed to defend the government when opposition Congress and JD(S) were attacking both Centre and state governments. Many state party leaders were found to be inactive, sources said. The party may ask the CM to drop some ministers and ask them to work for the party, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/b-y-vijayendra-meets-arun-singh-suggests-overhaul-karnataka-bjp-unit-992652.html
01-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||7 genomic labs to be set up in Karnataka to study mutated strains found in 2nd Covid wave: Sudhakar||Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar on Tuesday said seven genomic labs will be established across the state to study the mutated strains found in the second wave of Covid-19. "Seven genomic labs will be established across the state to study the mutated strains found in the second wave. These labs will come up at 5 medical colleges, Wenlock Hospital in Mangaluru and Vijayapura District Hospital," he said. This study will help us to understand the virus better and for development of better medicine and treatment protocols based on the nature of the virus, he said. The Minister on Tuesday chaired a meeting with senior officials of Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education Departments to review the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the state and containment measures. Aimed at ensuring preparedness for a possible third wave of Covid-19, the state government has decided to set up pediatric wards in all district hospitals, Sudhakar said. He also said that an oxygen generation plant will be set up in every taluk hospital and district hospital across the state. "A dedicated 70-80 bed pediatrics ward will be arranged in all district hospitals. Additional pediatricians and nursing staff will also be recruited wherever it is necessary," Sudhakar said.  A special training session will be conducted through Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) to train MBBS and other technical staff, the Minister, he was quoted as saying by his office in a release. State has received another consignment of 1.64 lakh doses of covaxin, the Minister said, the available stock will be used to vaccinate citizens above 45 years who are due for second dose, and vaccines will be eventually made available to all once the supply increases. Later in a tweet he said, the state has on Tuesday received 5.76 lakh doses of Covishield under central government's quota, adding it has so far got 1.14 crore doses of Covishield from the centre, while the state has procured 13.54 lakh doese directly. Further noting that as per reports two children whose parents have recovered from Covid might have been infected from Kawasaki, Sudhakar said, malnutrition and other social factors are among the causes for this and the government is closely tracking such cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/7-genomic-labs-to-be-set-up-in-karnataka-to-study-mutated-strains-found-in-2nd-covid-wave-sudhakar-992658.html
01-06-2021||West||MVA extends EWS quota to Marathas following Supreme Court setback||The Maharashtra government on Monday extended benefits under the the economically weaker section (EWS) quota to the Maratha community, days after the Supreme Court scrapped a separate reservation in jobs and education for the dominant social group. A government order (GO) to this effect was issued by the General Administration Department (GAD) here. At present, a 10 per cent EWS quota is in force for those sections of the society which are not covered by any kind of reservations. The central law on the EWS quota was enacted more than two years ago to allow reservation for the poor in jobs and education among the general category. The GAD order said the Maratha community, which has been classified as a Socially and Economically Backward Class (SEBC), can avail the 10 per cent EWS quota. The SC had, on May 5, struck down a state law that granted reservations in jobs and education to the Maratha community. The EWS quota will be applicable to the community from the period of interim stay (on Maratha reservation) on September 9, 2020, to the final verdict by the Supreme Court in May 5 this year, the government order said. The EWS quota will be applicable for SEBC candidates whose appointments were pending before the interim stay and will not be applicable to those candidates who have benefited from the SEBC quota in appointments and admissions, it said. In another development, the Shiv Sena-led MVA government extended till June 7, the tenure of the Justice Dilip Bhosale Committee, set up to review the apex court's May 5 verdict and advice the state on the future course of action. Earlier, the multi-member committee was supposed to submit its report on or before May 31.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mva-extends-ews-quota-to-marathas-following-supreme-court-setback-992358.html
01-06-2021||West||Goa's Covid-19 positivity drops from 51% to 20% in a month||The Covid-19 positivity rate in Goa has now come down to 19 per cent as against 51 per cent a month back, according to the state government. However, the Goa government has not let its guard down and is making all efforts to curb the spread of the virus by emphasising on vaccination, Dr Shivanand Bandekar, head of the state's expert committee on Covid-19, told PTI on Monday. He also said that till last week, the coastal state reported a total of 12 cases of mucormycosis, and since then there has been no fresh case of the black fungus infection. As per the data of Goa health department, the state reported 20 per cent Covid-19 positivity rate on Monday as compared to 51 per cent on April 30. "According to experts, there are 90 per cent chances that the third wave of Covid-19 may hit the state in about a month-and-a-half (mid-July)," Bandekar said. But, the state government is cautious and making all efforts to stem the spread of the virus, said Bandekar, who is also the dean of the state-run Goa Medical College and Hospital. He said experts have predicted that the third wave may affect those below the age of 18 and also impact the state's rural pockets. "Till now, adults in urban areas have been infected. There is herd immunity among them to a certain extent," he said, adding the virus will now try to find a "new host". The official also said vaccination is the best way to check the spread of the infection.  "Even if you get infected after vaccination, the severity of the disease is low. Very few people who have taken both the doses of vaccine have died. Those who died after taking both the doses was because they had high co-morbidity," Bandekar said. He said during the second wave of Covid-19, people died either due to co-morbidities or severity of the viral infection. "Some of the younger patients died because of the severity of the disease. The vaccines will definitely protect us from all mutants," Bandekar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goas-covid-19-positivity-drops-from-51-to-20-in-a-month-992394.html
01-06-2021||West||Pawar may have advised Fadnavis on oppn leader's role: Raut||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Tuesday quipped that NCP president Sharad Pawar may have advised former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on how to be a "good opposition leader" during their meeting a day ago. Talking to reporters, Raut dismissed prospects of any new political arithmetic emerging in the state. "Forget about 'operation Lotus' in Maharashtra. It will not happen here, not in West Bengal. Why bring political angle into every meeting?" he said. Fadnavis, who is the leader of opposition in the Maharashtra Assembly, called on Pawar (80) on Monday and later termed it as a "courtesy meeting". The meeting came against the backdrop of the BJP criticising the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra government over its handling of the Maratha quota issue and the Covid-19 situation in the state. The NCP and Congress share power with the Sena in Maharashtra. Pawar underwent a gall bladder surgery in April this year following which he was advised rest. Asked about the meeting between the two leaders, Raut took a dig at Fadnavis saying, "Sharad Pawar may have advised Devendra Fadnavis on how to be a good opposition leader. If he continues to act like this, the opposition (BJP) will not come to power (in the state) in the next 100 years." "It (the meeting) could be about how to play his role (as an opposition leader) in the interest of the state, the public and the nation," the Sena leader added. Asked about any political angle to the meeting between Pawar and Fadnavis, Raut said the BJP leader himself termed it as a "courtesy meet". Earlier also, there were speculations in political circles when Raut met Fadnavis in September last year. However, Raut, who is the executive editor of the Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana', had then said the meeting pertained to an interview of Fadnavis which he planned to conduct. When asked about it on Tuesday, Raut said, "We will find a good occasion soon to interview him (Fadnavis)."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pawar-may-have-advised-fadnavis-on-oppn-leaders-role-raut-992421.html
01-06-2021||West||Goa govt to make premarital counselling mandatory||Citing rise in the number of divorce cases, the Goa government has decided to come up with a policy to make premarital counselling mandatory. State Law Minister Nilesh Cabral on Monday said the state government's Goa Institute of Public Administration and Rural Development (GIPARD) will finalise the counselling course and its format. "We are coming up with a new policy to make premarital counselling mandatory in the state. We may also rope in religious institutions for the same," he said. The decision was taken following a rise in divorce cases reported in Goa, he said. "Many divorces are taking place within six months to one year of marriage. As a policy, we thought that premarital counselling should be made compulsory to create awareness among couples," Cabral said. While the minister said he did not have data on the exact number of divorce cases reported each month, he claimed the number has increased in the recent times.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-govt-to-make-premarital-counselling-mandatory-992431.html
01-06-2021||West||Shiv Sena conspiring to defer 2022 BMC polls citing Covid-19 pandemic: BJP MLA||Maharashtra BJP leader Ashish Shelar on Tuesday alleged the ruling Shiv Sena was conspiring to postpone the elections to the Mumbai civic body, due next February, citing the pandemic situation and possibility of a third wave. Shelar also alleged the Sena was trying to get an extension to the current governing body of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) so that it could receive a "cut" in the Rs 20,000 crore tender to be floated for setting up a sewage treatment plant. "The Shiv Sena is conspiring to postpone the BMC elections under the guise of the COVID-19 situation and the possibility of a third wave of the pandemic. If the Sena's demand is to be accepted, then we will demand that the BMC's governing body should not float or clear new tenders while on extension". The Bandra west MLA also alleged prevalence of "cut (money)" practice for tenders under the watch of the Sena which is the ruling party in the BMC for nearly three decades. "The BJP is against allowing any extension to the current governing body of the BMC," he said. The Sena and the BJP, which were ruling partners in Maharashtra from 2014 to 2019, had contested the Mumbai civic polls held in February 2017, separately. In a setback for the Sena, which considers Mumbai as its citadel, the results had thrown up a hung verdict as the BJP made giant strides by winning 82 seats, just two seats behind the Sena. The BJP, however, chose to sit in the opposition as it was sharing power with the Sena in the state at that time. In the 227-member BMC, the Sena has 97 corporators and the BJP 83. The BJP, however, has made its intentions clear to step up its challenge in the 2022 BMC elections to oust the Sena. "If the BMC elections are announced the next year, the BJP will contest as per the given framework and adhere to the COVID-19 protocol," Shelar, a former minister in the Devendra Fadnavis cabinet, said. He said the BMC had earlier announced setting up a sewage treatment plant and floating a tender worth Rs 20,000 crore for this purpose. "The tender is yet to be floated..This is the reason the Sena is conspiring to get an extension to the current governing body so that it could receive cuts (read bribe) once the tender is out," he alleged. Shelar said the Sena has betrayed the citizens of Mumbai which suffers due to water-logging almost every monsoon. "The party (Sena) promised that it won't allow inundation of Mumbai, but it has not set up flood gates in all the crucial points in the city," he claimed. In a veiled swipe at Worli MLA Aaditya Thackeray and his Chief Minister father Uddhav Thackeray, Shelar said all the developments are taking place in Worli only. "The BMC is prioritising and concentrating works only in select areas in the city. The works like (installing) powerful pumps to drain out rainwater and replacing old pipes with new ones have taken place in Kalanagar only," he alleged. The private residence of Sena president Thackeray is located in the Kalaganar area in suburban Bandra. The Shiv Sena heads the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra with the NCP and the Congress. The BJP is the largest opposition party in the state Legislative Assembly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shiv-sena-conspiring-to-defer-2022-bmc-polls-citing-covid-19-pandemic-bjp-mla-992488.html
01-06-2021||West||Bombay HC asks Maharashtra govy to address security concerns raised by SII CEO Adar Poonawalla||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday said the Maharashtra government must assure the Serum Institute of India's (SII) CEO, Adar Poonawalla, of requisite security in the wake of alleged threats to him over the supply of the Covishield vaccine manufactured by his company. A vacation bench of Justices SS Shinde and Abhay Ahuja said by manufacturing the Covid-19 vaccine, Poonawalla was doing a great service to the nation and the state government's highest functionaries must look into the issue of his security. It said the state's top officials must personally speak to Poonawalla, who recently went to London, and assure him of his safety upon his return to India. The bench was hearing a petition filed by lawyer Datta Mane, seeking Z-plus security for Poonawalla. The Union government has already granted 'Y' category security to the Pune-based industrialist. The petitioner, through his counsel Pradip Havnur, told the HC that as per news reports, Poonawalla had been living in fear due to constant pressure from politicians and some others demanding that he provide more supply of the Covishield vaccine to their states. Mane's plea said Poonawalla had left for London due to such threats. Notably, Poonawalla had said in a recent interview to The Times that he has been receiving threats and pressure from 'powerful people' seeking vaccine doses on priority.  On Tuesday, the Maharashtra government's counsel, Deepak Thakare, told the HC that the state had provided Y- category security to Poonawalla as per which, some CRPF personnel and two gunmen from the state police will remain available for his security round-the-clock. He further said the state was taking stock of the situation and would consider providing Z-plus security to Poonawalla upon his return to the country. At this, the bench said the state must not consider the petition as an adversarial litigation. "Mr Poonawalla is doing a fabulous job. He is doing a great service. He is serving the nation," the HC said. It further said Poonawalla was now trying to enhance the production of the vaccine. "The court's expectation is that someone from the state government must speak to him and assure him that all safety arrangements will be made, and security will be provided to him whenever he is in Maharashtra," the HC said. Mumbai is the economic capital of the country, and Maharashtra is a progressive and modern state, it observed. "If Mr Poonawalla has expressed any concerns, the state must address them," the court said. The bench directed advocate Thakare to speak to the state government officials and convey the court's concerns. "Please speak to the highest state functionaries, maybe the state Home minister, and assurance must be given to him (Poonawalla) from the top. They should talk to him personally," the HC said. It directed the state government to make a statement before the HC on June 10 on the security provided to Poonawalla, the number of CRPF personnel that will remain on guard for him and other related issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bombay-hc-asks-maharashtra-govy-to-address-security-concerns-raised-by-sii-ceo-adar-poonawalla-992508.html
01-06-2021||West||HC asks Maharashtra to reply on couple's plea to send daughter to US for vaccination||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday directed the Maharashtra government to reply to a petition of a city-based couple, seeking the court's help in sending their minor daughter to the US for vaccination against Covid-19. A bench of Justices S S Shinde and Abhay Ahuja directed the state to file the reply within a week. The bench was hearing a plea filed by south Mumbai residents Viral and Bijal Thakker. As per the plea filed through senior counsel Milind Sathe, the couple's daughter holds an Overseas Citizen of India card and is entitled to receive the vaccine in the US. The couple urged the HC to appoint the girl's maternal aunt, Purvee Parekh, who is also a co-petitioner in the case, as her legal guardian so that she can travel with her niece. The plea said due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the US had restricted travel of Indians, with the exception of American citizens, and a minor US citizen can be accompanied by a non- citizen parent or legal guardian. It said while the Indian government has currently approved vaccination of people aged 18 and above, the US administration allows inoculation of all those aged 12 and above. On Tuesday, the state's counsel, Poornima Kantharia, said Sathe must make the Union government and the US embassy parties to the case. She said the state was not the authority in the present case to take any decision. Advocate Sathe said he will make the Union government a party, but as per the existing rules, the embassy could not be made a party in the present plea. The court will continue hearing the plea next week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hc-asks-maharashtra-to-reply-on-couples-plea-to-send-daughter-to-us-for-vaccination-992539.html
01-06-2021||West||Security tightened at Aligarh village after communal brawl||Security was beefed up at a village here following a communal clash, police said on Tuesday, as some Dalit families claimed they did not feel safe there. Police said tension prevailed in the Nurpur village in Tappal area since May 26 after some people objected to the playing of music when a baraat procession was entering the village from near a mosque. A brawl ensued following which members of the marriage party filed a complaint alleging that people from the Muslim community indulged in brick-batting, leaving several injured. They also alleged they the windowpane of one of their vehicles was damaged by stick-wielding attackers. Police said that based on the complaint an FIR was lodged against several people -- Wakeel, Kaluwa, Mustaqeem, Sarfu, Ansaar, Sohail, Farooq, Amjad, Taufeeq, Shazor, Lehru and others -- under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and SC/ST (prevention of atrocities) Act. Senior BJP leaders, including local MP Satish Gautam and MLA Anup Pradhan, visited the village and told the complaining families that their concerns would be fully addressed. Meanwhile, some "house-for-sale" messages put up in the village went viral on social media, with the families concerned claiming they wish to migrate out. "There is no question of any person migrating under the regime of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. The guilty persons would be given such exemplary punishment that they would never forget it," MP Satish Gautam told reporters. Members of the Muslim community also told the media persons that they were still awaiting the local MP to hear their version. They also denied the allegations of violence on May 26. They said they have also given a complaint to the police narrating the sequence of events.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/security-tightened-at-aligarh-village-after-communal-brawl-992540.html
01-06-2021||West||PMLA court allows restoration of Vijay Mallya's properties to banks||A special PMLA court in Mumbai on Tuesday allowed the restoration of properties of fugitive liquor baron Vijay Mallya that were seized by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to a consortium of banks which had provided him loans. This was the second such order passed by Special Judge JC Jagadale in over a week. The combined value of property to be restored to banks runs into several crore rupees, a lawyer representing Mallya said. Mallya is an accused in a bank loan default case of over Rs 9,000 crore involving his defunct Kingfisher Airlines. A consortium of 17 banks that gave Mallya loans, led by State Bank of India, had sought restoration of his properties seized by the ED. The properties as described in the application are hereby restored to the applicant banks through the recovery officer, the court said. The court rejected Mallya's application seeking a stay on the order. The said order is a conditional one in which the concerned recovery officer has been directed to submit an undertaking as per provisions of Prevention of Money Laundering (Restoration of Property) Rules, 2016, the court said. The court added that, obviously, it will take time to submit such an undertaking, and in the meantime, the aggrieved party may challenge the said order, and, therefore, there is no need to stay the order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pmla-court-allows-restoration-of-vijay-mallyas-properties-to-banks-992543.html
01-06-2021||West||Nine bidders shortlisted for redevelopment of Mumbai's Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus||In a step further towards the redevelopment of Mumbai's Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus, nine bidders, including leading names in infrastructure business have been finalised. CSMT is a UNESCO World Heritage Site and houses the headquarters of the Central Railway. The shortlist was revealed by the Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation (IRSDC) after it evaluated the RFQ (Request for Quotation) applications submitted by the bidders. The nine companies shortlisted are: Godrej Properties Limited, Anchorage Infrastructure Investments Holdings Limited, Oberoi Realty Limited, ISQ Asia Infrastructure Investments Pte Ltd., Adani Railways Transport Limited, Kalpataru Power Transmission Ltd., GMR Enterprises Private Limited, Moribus Holdings Pte, Ltd. and BIF IV Infrastructure Holding DIFC Pvt. Ltd. is the nine shortlisted bidders. As the next step, RFP (Request for Proposal) will be called by IRSDC shortly from the nine shortlisted bidders. The construction and O&M experience capacity shall have to be met after the award of the project but before the appointed date. The entire bidding procedure is a two-stage bidding process consisting of RFQ and Request for Proposal (RFP). The selected bidder at the RFP stage shall take up the redevelopment of the CSMT Railway station The Request for Proposal (RFP) for CSMT is under preparation and will be called shortly from the shortlisted applicants. “Nine firms have qualified the RFQ stage for the redevelopment of CSMT station. As the next steps, IRSDC will float a Request for Proposal (RFP) soon to the qualified bidders. CSMT railway station redevelopment is one of our most ambitious projects and we at IRSDC are committed to transform the CSMT railway station into a state of the art transport hub” said SK Lohia, Managing Director & CEO - IRSDC. The project has in principle approval of PPPAC comprising representatives from the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Law, Niti Aayog, Ministry of Railways, etc, as per the Guidelines for PPP projects by Government of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nine-bidders-shortlisted-for-redevelopment-of-mumbais-chhatrapati-shivaji-maharaj-terminus-992562.html
01-06-2021||West||Covid-19 patients treated with combination of allopathy & ayurveda recover faster: Gujarat govt study||In the middle of raging protest by doctors against yoga guru Ramdev's remarks against allopathy, the Gujarat government on Tuesday released "findings" of a "research" conducted on coronavirus infected patients who were treated with allopathy medicine, as per the standard protocol, and combination of allopathy with ayurvedic medicines. The "findings" claimed that those patients treated with combination of allopathy and ayurveda reportedly recovered faster than the group treated with only allopathic medicine. The "research work" titled "Evaluation of Efficacy of an Ayurved Management as a Supportive Therapy in SARS - CoV-2 Mild Positive patients- An Open Labeled Randomized Active Control Trial" was carried out on 52 infected patients at the civil hospital.   The 52 patients were divided into two groups- Standard Treatment Group (STG)- which was given standard allopathic treatment and Ayurvedic Treatment Group (ATG), which was treated with state government recognised ayurvedic treatment along with standard allopathic medicines. Each group had 26 patients. According to the government, the research was carried out by specialists from Akhandanand Ayurveda College and state government's Office of Director, Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy or AYUSH. However, none of the findings have been published in any journal with supporting evidence yet. Director, AYUSH, Bhavna Patel told DH, "That process (of publishing) the finding is on verge of completion." Dr Devendra Patel, President of Indian Medical Association, Gujarat chapter, said that, "I have no knowledge about this research but I think if the findings are based on solid scientific evidence then there is no harm. There should be proper documentation with supporting evidence to back the claim." He added that "We are not against any pathy provided that they are based on proof." The government's release stated that 26 patients were examined before their treatment, during treatment and after treatment. No adverse drug reaction was found in any of the patients. The study reportedly revealed that RT-PCR tests on STG group took 19.15 days to become negative while "in Ayurveda treatment it took an average of 7.5 days." The release claims that none of the ATG group patients reported increase in symptoms or referred to ICU. Three patients in the Ayurveda group recovered in 0-5 days, which is 3% of the total patients involved in the research, while in STG not a single patient was found to recover in 7 days. "The patients who received Ayurveda treatment had symptoms of fever, shortage of breath, cold running nose, general weakness, headache and nausea. Such patients, the study has reportedly found, found relief in an average three days. According to the release, "the research was conducted under the guidance of Chief Minister Vijay Rupani and Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel (also the health minister) with the prior approval of Jayanti Ravi, Principal Secretary, Department of Health."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-patients-treated-with-combination-of-allopathy-ayurveda-recover-faster-gujarat-govt-study-992615.html
01-06-2021||West||At 14,123, Maharashtra reports lowest Covid-19 cases since March 10||Maharashtra on Tuesday recorded 14,123 new Covid-19 cases, the lowest since March 10, and 477 fresh deaths and also added 377 previously unreported fatalities, the state health department said. With the addition of 14,123 infections, the state's caseload rose to 57,61,015, while the fatality count increased to 96,198, the department said. The state on March 10 had reported 13,659 cases of the Covid-19 infection, which has been witnessing a declining trend over the last few weeks. A day ago, Maharashtra reported 15,077 Covid-19 cases. Recoveries far exceeded new infections. As many as 35,949 patients were discharged from hospitals during the day, pushing the number of recovered cases to 54,31,319, a statement from the department said. The state now has 2,30,681 active cases, it said. The Covid-19 recovery rate increased to 94.28 per cent from 93.88 per cent a day ago, while the fatality rate is 1.67 per cent, the department said. The statement said 2,22,599 more people were tested for coronavirus in Maharashtra, taking the number of samples examined so far to 3,52,77,653. There are 17,68,119 people in home isolation and 9,315 in institutional quarantine, the department said. Out of the 477 deaths, 340 occurred in the last 48 hours and 137 in the last week. As many as 377 deaths, that had taken place before the last week, were directly included in the cumulative toll as part of a data reconciliation exercise, it said. This means the statewide cumulative fatality count rose by 854 on Tuesday, the department said. Mumbai city reported 830 new cases and 23 deaths, taking its tally to 7,06,118 and the toll to 14,849, the department said. The wider Mumbai division, including the city and its satellite towns, reported 2,374 infections and 102 deaths, pushing the caseload to 15,34,781 and the toll to 27,906, it said. Out of these deaths in the division, 31 were reported from areas under the Vasai-Virar Municipal Corporation and 22 from rural parts of Raigad. Another 17 people died of the viral infection in Palghar district, the statement said. The Nashik division reported 1,551 cases, including 914 from Ahmednagar district. Out of 78 deaths in the division, 26 were in Ahmednagar district followed by 21 in Nashik city and 20 in rural parts of Nashik district, the department said. The Pune division registered 3,633 cases, 1,535 of them in Satara district, the statement said. Out of 69 deaths in the division, 28 were from Satara district, while 16 and 15 infections were from rural parts of Solapur and Pune districts, respectively, it said. The Kolhapur division reported 3,345 cases of coronavirus, including 973 in Kolhapur district. The division also reported 86 deaths, of which 32 were from rural parts of Kolhapur, while 16 were from Ratnagiri. Sangli and Sindhudurg districts added 14 and 10 deaths, respectively, the department said. The Aurangabad division recorded 440 infections of the deadly disease, the Latur division 860, the Akola division 1,284 and the Nagpur division 636, the statement said. In the Latur division, Beed district alone reported 29 deaths out of the total 50 fatalities. A tribal district in the Vidarbha region, Gadchiroli, reported 11 deaths out of 34 recorded in the Nagpur division, the department said. Maharashtra's Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 57,61,015; new cases 14,123, deaths 96,198; recoveries 54,31,319; active cases 2,30,681; tests so far 3,52,77,653.   (||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/at-14123-maharashtra-reports-lowest-covid-19-cases-since-march-10-992680.html
