02-06-2021||Comment||Preparing for the waves||Just over a hundred years ago, the Spanish Flu pandemic devastated many parts of the world. An estimated 100 million people died; India accounted for 15-18 million of them. It was the second wave that was deadly. So far, the official death toll in India due to Covid-19 is over 330,000, and one can reasonably assume that the figure is undercounted. But it is, for sure, still a long way from the Spanish Flu figures. With Covid-19, we don’t know for certain how many waves and types there will be. But looking at the devastation already wrought, we must prepare for more waves even as we deal with this one. We should have been doing far better than we have with the second wave. The State must identify and initiate the requisite measures to meet the disaster as a national emergency. Most importantly, this national disaster demands that crisis managers be not overly rule-bound and needlessly procedural. It is most essential that they give up their clerical mindsets. India has been battling Covid-19 for more than a year. The virus never went away. The second wave has brought into full view the incompetence of the governing class that includes politicians, bureaucracy and even some constitutional institutions at many levels. But it seems to be worst at the top. The major attitudinal change required is to deal with the situation as a grave national disaster and along with that the acceptance that the crisis cannot be managed by rules and procedures shaped for a normal situation. The emergency demands that rules and procedures do not stand in the way of saving lives. The ultimate question for decision-making on any policy or action should be: Will the measure save lives? In normal times, rules and procedures focus mostly on misuse and is mostly wrapped in protective procedures. How can those rules and procedures work now when the containment of the pandemic and provision of adequate support facilities to patients have to be our primary aim? The overriding of rules and procedures should be done by the political class and they must take full responsibility for maintaining integrity. Importantly, it also means that as much as feasible and necessary, power and freedom of action must percolate to as low a level as possible within the national and state administrative structures and also synergise with India’s commendable NGO and private sector capacity. Fundamentally, it requires the empowering of India’s federal system. As a principle, the states and Union Territories must be the organisational frontline, with the Centre playing the provider’s role. Covid-19 must immediately be declared a national disaster and the NDMA, which is headed by the PM, must take overall charge and coordinate central and state inter-agency activities through the state Disaster Management Agencies, which are headed by the chief ministers. States must be allowed maximum space to device their own strategies and deploy resources. The problem is currently that they have been denied the desired level of freedom of action by the Centre. The states and everyone below seem to be looking back over their heads and waiting for instructions from the top. Admittedly, the balance has already shifted towards the states in the second wave, but has it translated into jettisoning of belief systems by people who have to do the execution? Execution of the vaccination drive and provision of medical resources like oxygen is a major task of the governing class. By all accounts, the most important part of the vaccination drive – procuring vaccines -- has been badly bungled. There is no choice but to try again, and this time pull out all stops to procure vaccines centrally and for the states to speedily vaccinate the population. Speed requires loosened checks and balances. Vaccination should be made as easy as any citizen walking up to a vaccination centre, producing an identity card and getting the jab. No rules and procedures must come in-between. Dr Devi Shetty’s suggestions and the quick approval for them by the PM to use under-training medical personnel for staffing the Indian medical infrastructure should work. The PM has bent the rules as a policy move and it is hoped that the governing class below will not invent procedures that will make it difficult and slow to implement the idea. There are still the untapped resources of nearly 50,000 doctors who have qualified in foreign medical institutions but are not allowed to practice in India till they qualify in an Indian exam. A temporary waiver will mobilise this resource. The need is critical; it is hoped that the political class will push the governing class to act with speed because it is about saving lives. If any state requires, the Indian armed forces must be immediately deployed to rural areas and though they may not be able to provide medical facilities required, they can make it up to a limited extent through their organisational capabilities and the human touch. The medically trained veterans of the armed forces can also be invited to volunteer and utilised to support the medical infrastructure, especially at the district level. Retired medical personnel of all other organisations, government and private, can also be requested to volunteer. A call from the prime minister and chief ministers should suffice. Public Communication The pervasive impact of social media in the information age has been recognised as a technological boon if it is utilised well. No doubt this medium is not fully under the control of the government. The main area of improvement required is that the government’s efforts have to be transparent and sincere. It should be specifically sensitive to prevention of panic. This domain demands a major policy shift. This crisis will pass, like many others before it. The responsibility for leadership in a democracy will be called out through the electoral process. But in an emergency, all elements restricting the efforts toward dealing with the disaster have to be cast aside. Only if the political leadership realises this fundamental truth can India’s efforts be effective. The stakes for India are high.  (The writer is Director, Strategic Studies Programme, Takshashila Institution, Bengaluru, and former Military Adviser, National Security Council Secretariat)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/preparing-for-the-waves-992843.html
02-06-2021||First Edit||Nothing to celebrate, much to worry about||The completion of two years of the second term of the Narendra Modi government, in continuation of five years of its first term, is no occasion for celebration because the country is going through a multi-dimensional crisis. Much of the second term up to now has been lost to the pandemic which has disrupted personal and social life and devastated the economy. What stands out glaringly is the government’s failure to handle the crisis from the beginning in every respect, including the timing and suddenness of the first lockdown, the migrant labour exodus, the complacency after the first wave, the shortage of vaccines, medicines and oxygen and the faulty vaccination policy now. States were made to do the heavy lifting in the fight and the Centre has been found wanting in policies and actions. The Prime Minister is seen to have withdrawn from the frontlines when the going got tough. The Modi government had started its first term on a strong mandate with the promise of “Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas.’’ It got a stronger mandate for its second term. Even in the first term, the promise was not translated into policies, though some good initiatives like the Swachh Bharat Mission, the Ujjwala scheme and a ‘Neighbourhood First’ foreign policy were launched. But the Hindutva agenda took over and was aggressively pursued during the second term. The abrogation of Article 370, which had popular support, was not rightly followed up, and Kashmir is still not normal. The ban on triple talaq, which also had wide support, was framed in such a way as to criminalise Muslim men for a civil law matter. The amended citizenship law is against the spirit of the Constitution. The Prime Minister himself laid the foundation stone for the Ayodhya Ram Temple which is being built, albeit after a Supreme Court ruling, on the site where a mosque had stood and was destroyed by a mob led by BJP and Sangh Parivar leaders. Constitutional institutions like the Election Commission have come under pressure and central agencies have been used in the most blatant manner against opposition leaders and critics. Citizens’ rights and freedoms are under pressure and the most drastic provisions in the law are invoked to curb and punish dissent. The economy, which was in decline due to the continuing impact of authoritarian measures like demonetisation, is in the doldrums. Federal relations are under stress. Relations with other countries, including neighbours, have deteriorated and the country's global standing has suffered. This is not a creditable record warranting any sort of celebration. The Prime Minister may still have enough political capital to turn the situation around. The question this anniversary is whether he and his government have the wisdom and will to do so and undo the damage done till now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/nothing-to-celebrate-much-to-worry-about-992849.html
02-06-2021||In Perspective||Agriculture: New season, old problems||The impending onset of the new agricultural season has trigged an increased state of despair in most villages of rural India. There is an increased realisation among people that their economic problems are only beginning, even as rural India continues to reel under the impact of the second wave of the pandemic. Unlike the first wave, the second wave has brought disaster into the homes of almost all villages. Villages closer to urban centres and those with higher numbers of migrant labourers have been more affected while the more isolated areas have relatively fewer infections. Last year, the policy panic quickly gave way to a push for rural employment through the MGNREGS; this year, the response is slow even as cases and expenditure on health have increased drastically. Soaring cases and few signs of any let up in infections has worried people into buying ‘Covid kits’ of medicines sold by local medical stores. This ‘kit’ includes a 10-day supply of Vitamin C, D, Zinc and ivermectin tablets, along with a course of Doxycycline. The price of the package is dependent on demand and supply: rising cases mean that the ‘kits’ now cost Rs 500, against the Rs 250-300 a month ago. Despite the soaring cases and high positivity rates, vaccine hesitancy is high, especially in the more remote areas— a contrast to the crowds at vaccination centres in urban areas. A consequence of this hesitancy is higher vaccine wastage. The start of the new agricultural season with the onset of the monsoon brings with it the periodic economic challenges in the form of a need to raise cash or credit for agricultural operations. The collapse of prices, especially of non-food crops and those without Minimum Support Price (MSP), in March has made matters worse. This year, the small, marginal and tenant farmers face an existential dilemma: price collapse means most are staring at losses on production carried forward from the last season; lockdowns post-March mean that there is no earning from migration during the lean summer months. Income from migration in lean months is an important source of earning for the bottom quartile of the rural economy. This has been made worse by the complete halt in local construction activity due to supply chain disruption and the lack of incomes, further aggravated by increased difficulty in finding work in the villages or the nearest small towns. Inability to migrate and the return of workers from the urban areas have only added to the pressure on wages. The relatively slow start to MGNREGS works this year has not helped matters. The net impact of the second wave is that many small and marginal farmer households have not been able to repay their crop loans taken last year. Usually, these are repaid in March-April. The inability to repay last year’s crop loan and to borrow afresh will further drive rural households into a new debt spiral. RBI data indicates that the problems in the delivery of agricultural credit are continuing from the first wave and they may only be starting: the RBI’s recently released annual report indicates a larger problem in the delivery of agricultural credit that has its origins in the first wave. The total achievement in priority sector disbursal is about Rs11.27 lakh crore in the period April 2020 to December 2020, against the target of Rs 15 lakh crore, or about 75% of the target — an issue that did not seem to have arisen in the two years before Covid. Considering that the major part of the agricultural season is completed by December, banks are likely to miss the agricultural credit targets. Thus, unless farmers are able to urgently get cash and repay their loans, they are likely to lose their cheapest source of credit (bank loans). Unfortunately, many rural households have already pledged their gold with the gold loan companies or pawnbrokers and may have run out of gold to pledge. In small towns, gold loan companies and pawnbrokers are an important source of credit and their offices are crowded with customers. A consequence of the second wave is the increased tightening of the rural informal credit markets— which at many times is influenced by the formal banking sector. The second wave has led to informal moneylenders becoming increasingly hesitant to lend money even at higher interest rates -- even to their old customers. A new phenomenon is that they are now demanding collateral -- usually fixed assets — even for amounts that in the past were considered to be small. In the past, such demands were only reserved for large amounts that exceeded Rs 2-5 lakh. In short, the problems in rural India only seem to be starting, and are adding to the stress levels. Of course, as always, the final economic outcome will depend on the rain gods and the prices after harvest— two issues that have been central to farming for the past many decades. (The writer is an independent researcher based in Andhra Pradesh)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/agriculture-new-season-old-problems-992842.html
02-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Youth held for assaulting woman ASI||Police arrested a youth on charges of assaulting a woman ASI while checking documents of a motorbike at Rashtrapati chowki here on Tuesday.  The police said the arrested has been identified as Mahesh Shivasharanappa Hugar, a resident of Jogur village of the taluk. The accused has assaulted woman ASI Sumangala Reddy while verifying the vehicle documents while she was on duty on new Jewargi road in the morning.  When the ASI waylaid the motorbike and tried to seize the vehicle for flouting lockdown protocol. A quarrel ensued between the duo and  The ASI slapped on his face. The accused also paid back in the same coin.  The onlookers came to the rescue to the police officer and tied the youth to a nearby pole. He was then taken to Ashok Nagar police station for questioning. After registering a case, the accused has been remanded to judicial custody.  Reacting to the incident, Deputy Commissioner of Police D Kishorebabu said the youth has been remanded to judicial custody and investigation is on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/youth-held-for-assaulting-woman-asi-992750.html
02-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Dakshina Kannada PU colleges principals' body suggests multiple choice questions format for II PU exams||The Dakshina Kannada PU Colleges Principals' Association (DKPUCPA) has come out with a unique plan to conduct II PUC examinations, while the state government is still holding discussions on conducting II PU exams amid the Covid-19 pandemic.  DKPUCPA President Umesh Karkera, elaborating on the proposal also submitted to Primary and Secondary Education Minister Suresh Kumar, said that results can be announced within 10 days. Keeping the scenario in mind, it is better to have multiple choice questions (MCQ) for the students, he said. "Using software, OMR answer scripts can be evaluated without any hassles," the Association president said. Students should be given a question bank with a minimum of 200 MCQs in each subject and should be given one month's time to prepare for the examination, Karkera said. The exams should be conducted from the question bank supplied to the students. About 50 questions should be shortlisted to conduct the examination. The duration of the exam should be one hour and 15 minutes. The exams can be conducted offline or online with help of computers borrowed from engineering colleges nearby, he said. The OMR answer scripts should be scanned in the district headquarters and evaluated on the same day. With this, the results can be announced within 10 days, Karkera added. The office-bearers of the Association said the examination centres should be set up at gram panchayat level, hobli level and college level to minimise travelling by the students. The service of high school and primary school teachers should be availed in conducting the exams. Karkera said as per the project plan, the exams can be conducted with minimum resources.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dakshina-kannada-pu-colleges-principals-body-suggests-multiple-choice-questions-format-for-ii-pu-exams-992873.html
02-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Four members of a family end lives in Chamarajanagar||Four members of the same family ended their lives allegedly by hanging at H Mookahalli in Chamarajanagar.  The deceased have been identified as Mahadevappa (46), his wife Mangalamma (40), and daughters Jyothi (14) and Shruti  (12).  According to sources, Mahadevappa tested positive for Covid-19 20 days ago and had recovered. The family reportedly faced financial problems due to the Covid-19 lockdown.  Mahadevappa had called his elder daughter in Nanjangud taluk on Tuesday. However, the suicide incident came to light when a resident of the village had gone to call Mahadevappa for work on Wednesday morning.  SP Divya Sara Thomas visited the spot. Prima facie it looks like they ended their lives. More details will be available after post mortem, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/four-members-of-a-family-end-lives-in-chamarajanagar-992908.html
02-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||GPs directed to handle biomedical waste effectively||Dakshina Kannada Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Dr Kumar said that the bio-medical waste generated in the houses of the Covid-19 patients in home isolation should be disposed off scientifically. All GPs in the district were issued a circular in this regard. About 80 per cent of Covid-19 patients in the district are in home isolation. The waste generated from such houses should be handled with utmost care to ensure that Covid-19 does not spread, he said. The CEO directed the GPs to hand over black and yellow plastic covers for those in home isolation. The yellow cover is for dumping used gloves, masks, tissue paper, cotton and other medical waste while the black cover is for normal waste. "Those who collect waste from the doorstep should sprinkle disinfectant spray (1 per cent sodium hypochlorite) on both black and yellow covers before collecting them from the houses," he said. The collected biomedical waste from the yellow cover should be sent to the nearest Primary Health Centre to be collected by Ramky agency which is entrusted with the task of disposing medical waste scientifically in Dakshina Kannada district, the CEO explained in the circular. It is the responsibility of the GPs to ensure that the biomedical waste is sent to the PHCs for disposal. Waste collectors should also take all precautionary and safety measures by wearing masks, gloves, head caps, faceshields, boots, PPE kits while collecting the medical bio-waste from the houses. The vehicle used for transporting medical bio-waste should be sprinkled with disinfectant spray. The primary contacts and other family members of the Covid-19-infected should hand over masks for disposal after storing it in a paper for 72 hours, the ZP CEO said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/gps-directed-to-handle-biomedical-waste-effectively-992917.html
02-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||MLA drives ambulance ferrying body of Covid victim||Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa's political secretary and MLA M P Renukacharya has become a good Samaritan again by driving an ambulance ferrying the body of a Muslim youth who died of Covid-19 from taluk general hospital to the burial ground in Nyamathi, on Wednesday. He handed over the body of Hameed (34) to the family members and thus proved that humanity still remains in society. In the past also, he had driven an ambulance in the absence of a driver. Renukacharya said that Covid-19 has claimed the life of Hameed, the lone breadwinner of the family. His untimely death has turned out to be unbearable for the family. The Muslim community expressed their gratitude to the MLA for his good deed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mla-drives-ambulance-ferrying-body-of-covid-victim-992990.html
02-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Disqualification of Mayor: Election to be held on June 11||The political activities have picked up among the corporators as the election for the Mayor’s post is scheduled for June 11. The election was necessitated as the High Court of Karnataka ordered disqualification of the membership of Mayor Rukmini Madegowda, corporator of Ward 36 as Rajani of Congress, filed a petition against Rukmini of declaring false assets in election affidavit, in 2018. Regional Commissioner G C Prakash, also the presiding officer, has fixed the date. MCC Commissioner Shilpa Nag said, “We have received the orders in connection with the disqualification of Mayor Rukmini Madegowda on Tuesday evening. The matter was brought to the notice of Regional Commissioner immediately and suggestions sought from him. The RC had called a meeting and deputy mayor will be the acting as Mayor until the election,” she said. It has been decided to conduct the election on June 11 at 12 noon. The process has commenced and notices are being served, she said. The commissioner also said that there are provisions to conduct election twice. All the people who will participate in the election will be subjected to Covid-19 test and all the guidelines will be followed. Rukmini Madegowda of JD(S) was elected as Mayor on February 24 with the support of Congress corporators and it had created differences among the Congress party leaders and MLA Tanveer Sait. All the three political parties had taken the election as prestige issue and the JD(S) had managed to win Mayor post. Though Congress fielded a candidate, Sait decided to support JD(S) at the last moment after the election process commenced and it was an embarrassment for Congress leaders, including Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah. However, Sait claimed that it was inevitable to support JD(S) to keep BJP away from the power. Rukmini Madegowda is likely to approach Supreme Court challenging the High Court order and seeking Stay for the election process. Rukmini had said that she will approach the Supreme Court after discussion with the party leaders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/disqualification-of-mayor-election-to-be-held-on-june-11-993060.html
02-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Prasad's residence hotspot for political developments: Vishwanath||MLC A H Vishwanath on Wednesday revealed that the ‘muhurat’ to defeat former chief minister Siddaramaiah at Chamundeshwari Assembly segment, to topple JD(S)-Congress coalition government and the coronation of Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa was fixed at MP V Srinivas Prasad’s residence in the city. Speaking to reporters at Srinivas Prasad’s residence here, Vishwanath said that since 2018, many prominent political decisions were taken at Prasad’s house. When asked about any fresh ‘muhurat’, Vishwanath said, wait and watch for a few days. “The situation is not right now. We have respect towards Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and he has health issues. We are more concerned towards the health of the state’s administration rather than Yediyurappa’s health,” he said. To a query on the rift between MP Pratap Simha and Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri, Vishwanath said, “The DC is responsible to the pros and cons in the district. The MP should maintain dignity while speaking about the DC. He should have asked about the Covid expenses in a meeting rather issuing statements.” Why is the district in-charge minister silent over the issue, he asked. Srinivas Prasad said, “It is a fact that there are differences between the party leaders. BJP state vice-president B Y Vijayendra and Tourism Minister C P Yogeshwara levelled allegations against each other and both have approached the party high command. But, there seems to be no change in leadership during the pandemic. We need to fight the Covid situation first.” To a query about oxygen tragedy in Chamarajanagar that claimed several lives, Prasad said, “It is not easy to point out one person as everyone are working tirelessly to fight Covid. First, we need to assess the reality and have to guide them to be on a proper track.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/prasads-residence-hotspot-for-political-developments-vishwanath-993061.html
02-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Step down hospital services inaugurated at HIMS||District In-charge Minister K Gopalaiah inaugurated the 150-bed step down hospital, at medical students hostel, near Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences (HIMS) in Hassan on Wednesday. The patients discharged after recovery from Covid hospitals, but need to be in observation for a few more days, will be monitored at the step down hospital. He also handed over 30 oxygen concentrators of 10 litres capacity, donated by the United Way organisation, to HIMS director B C Ravikumar. Speaking on the occasion, the minister said, "The United Way organisation has come forward to offer a separate 30 ventilator facility at a cost of Rs 2.5 crore. Currently, there are 450 oxygenated beds, and 200 ordinary bed facility at HIMS. With the addition of 150-bed, it has a total 800-bed facility. Besides, 200-bed Covid care facility has been opened at Dharmasthala Ayurveda Hospital. Now, 1,000 patients can be treated at a time." To a query on lifting the lockdown, Gopalaiah said that a decision in this regard will be taken after holding discussion with the chief minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/step-down-hospital-services-inaugurated-at-hims-993062.html
02-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||3 of family die of Covid in a span of one week||Three persons of the same family died of Covid-19 in a span of one week, at Kanagalu village near Bettadapur in Periyapatna taluk.   While Thammegowda (55) and his father Annegowda (80) died a few days back. His wife Suma (45), who was infected with the virus died in a hospital in Hassan on Tuesday. Thammegowda, also chief executive officer of a Primary Agricultural Credit Society (PACS) died of the infection on May 29 and Suma was his primary contact. Two days before the death of Thammegowda, his father Annegowda died, on May 27. Thammegowda couple has a son and a daughter. The final rites of Suma was held at their farmland as per Covid protocol on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/3-of-family-die-of-covid-in-a-span-of-one-week-993063.html
02-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Central hospital transforms into complete Covid hospital||The Central Hospital for Beedi Workers on Mahadevapura Main Road in Mysuru, the only Central hospital of the district, has finally evolved into a complete Covid Hospital, as Narasimharaja Covid Care Centre/Hospital, thanks to the efforts of MLA Tanveer Sait and secretary of Mysuru Beedi Workers' Association K C Showkath Pasha. It has to be noted that DH had published both print and video storied about the lack of qualified healthcare professionals and also facilities: Staff crunch: ‘Good salary offer fails to attract doctors during Covid times’ https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/staff-crunch-good-salary-offer-fails-to-attract-doctors-during-covid-times-988488.html and ‘Shortage of doctors affects work at Mysuru's Covid hospital’ https://www.deccanherald.com/video/state/shortage-of-doctors-affects-work-at-mysurus-covid-hospital-990314.html. Pasha said, “With the efforts of MLA Tanveer Sait and the Mysuru district administration, we have successfully converted the Central Hospital for Beedi workers as NR Covid Care Centre/Hospital. We are happy that the facilities were upgraded within a month. With this, the Covid patients of Narasimharaja Assembly segment need not go in search of medical care to hospitals in the other part of the city and also in the central business district (CBD). They can get medical care in their own locality.” He said, "The bed capacity has been increased to 215 and 20 of them would be in the intensive care unit (ICU), shortly. The work in this regard is under progress. Fifty of the beds are oxygenated at present. Further, 50 oxygenated beds are in the offing. Arrangement is made with an agency, for CT scan and blood testing, free of cost, for the benefit of patients.” “Free food is supplied to patients and staff of the hospital by an NGO. A KSRTC bus with oxygen facility is parked at the hospital, for emergency. Following complaints about the lack of qualified doctors, six MBBS doctors, three Ayush doctors, 10 nursing staff and 12 trainee nurses have been deputed to the hospital. Besides, volunteers are helping the team lead by Dr Nayaz, Dr Sheraz and Dr Syed Munavar,” Pasha said. He said, "Covid Mitra is operating for triaging patients. Hundreds of patients visit the Covid Mitra as out-patients and get consultation by doctors from 8 am to 8 pm. Q Care, an NGO, is supporting with a doctor and nurses to take care of a unit of 20 beds. Besides, RT-PCR and RAT are done on patients everyday, between 10 am and 1.30 pm.” Pasha said, “The hospital is also working as a Covid vaccination centre. Chief Medical Officer of the hospital Cap A L Janardhan, corporators of the area and social activists are involved in the development and functioning of the NR Covid Care Centre, as a successful model. The public should come forward and use the facilities, without neglecting the symptoms."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/central-hospital-transforms-into-complete-covid-hospital-993075.html
02-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||KSOU contract workers seek better benefits as part of silver jubilee celebrations||Contract workers of the Mysuru-based Karnataka State Open University (KSOU) have urged the authorities concerned for better benefits, as part of the silver jubilee celebrations, this year. It has to be noted that the KSOU was established in May, 1996, and just completed 25 years. Earlier, the University of Mysore (UoM) had the Institute of Correspondence Course and Continuing Education (ICC & CE) to offer distant education. The ICC and CE was bifurcated on its then campus to form the KSOU. It has to be recalled that the University Grants Commission (UGC) had de-recognised the courses offered by the KSOU from the academic year 2013-14, for some violations. However, the UGC granted permission to offer courses from the academic year 2018-19. As per the decision of the state government, taken on December 17, 2019, the KSOU is the sole university in Karnataka to offer courses through distance mode. Since then, the KSOU is receiving good enrollment. Besides offering courses, the KSOU is involved in social activities. Its new building at Mandakalli, on the outskirts of Mysuru, is serving as a Covid Care Centre since last June. The KSOU has also chipped in to provide medical equipment to the district administration and Covid needs like masks and sanitisers and also groceries to needy people. B Ganesh, a writer and also a contract employee of the KSOU, said, Vice-Chancellor S Vidyashankar had recently announced that the family members of the contract employees of KSOU Shivashankar and Santhosh, who succumbed to Covid, would be offered jobs. “The KSOU should offer more benefits to its contract employees, who serve the university for lesser salaries and benefits,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ksou-contract-workers-seek-better-benefits-as-part-of-silver-jubilee-celebrations-993076.html
02-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-hit Karnataka farmers left to fend for themselves||Hit hard by the twin blows of the Covid-19 pandemic and cyclone Tauktae, small and marginal farmers in north Karnataka districts were left with no choice but to let the produce rot in the field or destroy it. The second Covid wave has been a deadly blow to the hapless farmers. Lack of access to markets and falling prices have forced many small and marginal farmers in Belagavi district to not harvest agriculture and horticultural crops in the field. Acres of cauliflower, green chilli and flowers are left to rot in the farmlands. The situation is no different in Uttara Kannada district. The farmers of Hattikeri in Ankola taluk have destroyed crops grown on 60 hectares while a few others have let cattle graze acres of watermelon that was ready for harvest. Similar is the story of the farmers in Gadag district, which is known for its guavas. The fruits were left to ripen and rot in the trees at Kurlageri in Nargund taluk and other places in the district as the growers couldn’t transport the yield to markets owing to Covid curbs. The fate of guava growers in Koluru and surrounding areas in Haveri taluk has been similar. “I had grown guava on two-and-a-half acres of farm. I have incurred a loss of Rs 1.5 lakh due to lack of market," rues Satish, a farmer from Koluru. While Satish let the fruits rot on his farm, a floriculturist from Naganur in Haveri taluk has destroyed flowers grown on two acres by hiring a tractor. Many flower cultivators in Ganajuru, Karjagi and surrounding areas, who used to earn a decent profit during this time of the year, have cleared the crop along with the harvest to prepare the land for the next agriculture season. In the absence of an organised market and government support and unplanned lockdowns, the farmers in the region were left to fend for themselves.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-hit-karnataka-farmers-left-to-fend-for-themselves-993110.html
02-06-2021||Mysuru||70-year-old Mysurean adopts online classes to revive art of handwriting||Amid the coronavirus crisis, a 70-year-old commercial artist has started online classes, adopting latest technology and gadgets, to revive the fading art of handwriting. Even as handwriting is fading away, with rampant use of computers and gadgets in all fields A Sathyanarayana, S Narayan for his students, has been training hundreds of persons in the art of writing, over the past two decades, since 2002. He was conducting formal classes in handwriting and calligraphy, through his Kala Spandana organisation, on the premises of the century-old Mahila Samaja (founded in 1917) in Lakshmipuram, Mysuru. While some of Narayan’s students are LKG students, some are PG students, a few are KAS and UPSC aspirants and also software professionals. Initially, Narayan used to conduct drawing and painting classes at his home and also at the house of his students. He also had a small establishment — Shilpa Arts -- on the main street, near Chikka Market in Mysuru. He thought of starting handwriting and calligraphy classes after parents of his students started complaining about their wards’ poor quality handwriting. Narayan developed his own tools, devised a system and syllabus to provide a strong foundation for handwriting. He says 16 classes are enough to train seniors, with a bit of maturity, but juniors need at least 24 classes to become proficient in beautiful handwriting. If a person is able to write 20 words per minute, without compromising on quality, the results will be good, he said. Unlike in a school classroom, individual attention has to be paid to each person to beautify one’s handwriting, so only a limited number of students are admitted for each batch. Before starting the training, a test is given to identify one’s gait in handwriting. Gait comes from birth. Some people write straight letters, some write them in a slanted way. The handwriting gets spoilt if one goes against the natural way of writing, he said. Usually, handwriting is inspired by teachers and friends and children try to imitate them. It is the evolving stage. Finally, they get confused and spoil their handwriting. There are some drawbacks, like writing slant towards left, strokes, etc. They are covered up without the knowledge of the student, during the training sessions, Narayan said. The loss in the beauty of handwriting is a result of a drop in concentration and fear of reaching the target of writing about 40 pages in two and a half hours in examinations. People are also losing touch with writing, due to the use of computers and gadgets. The maximum span of a person’s concentration in writing is 20 minutes. So all these aspects have to be taken care of during the training sessions, he said. To popularise the art of writing, Narayan has also encouraged his students to conduct classes at various parts of Mysuru. They are training students in their localities, making more people write beautifully. Narayan said that as parents of his students, who had enrolled before Covid lockdown suggested online classes, he ventured into the new format. His earlier students are helping him in conducting online classes. He will conduct six classes a week, three of them follow-up classes. He said that follow-up classes are crucial as individual attention will be paid during them. Those interested can call: 99803 37759.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/70-year-old-mysurean-adopts-online-classes-to-revive-art-of-handwriting-993074.html
02-06-2021||National||India, China, other BRICS nations make a joint push for reform of multilateral system||India, China, Russia, Brazil and South Africa on Tuesday came together to make a push for reform of the multilateral institutions. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his counterparts in other BRICS nations – Brazil, Russia, China and South Africa – had a virtual meeting and issued a joint statement on strengthening and reforming the multilateral system. The joint statement reiterated the BRICS nations’ call for reforms of the principal organs of the United Nations. The Foreign Ministers of the five nations recommitted to instil new life in the discussions on the reform of the UN Security Council and continue the work to revitalize the General Assembly and strengthen the Economic and Social Council. The statement, however, had no reference to India’s pursuit for a permanent seat in the security council. The ministers acknowledged that the current interconnected international challenges should be addressed through a reinvigorated and the reformed multilateral system, especially of the United Nations and its principal organs, and other institutions like International Monetary Fund (IMF), World Bank (WB), World Trade Organization (WTO) and World Health Organization (WHO), with a view to enhancing its capacity to effectively address the diverse challenges and to adapt them to 21st-century realities. Though reform of the multilateral systems has long been on the agenda of the BRICS (a bloc comprising Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa), this is the first time the five nations issued a joint statement on it. Jaishankar, Sergey Lavrov of Russia, Wang Yi of China, Carlos Alberto Franco França of Brazil and Grace Naledi Mandisa Pandor of South Africa called for making instruments of global governance more inclusive, representative and participatory to facilitate greater and more meaningful participation of developing and least developed countries, especially Africa, in global decision-making processes and structures and make it better attuned to contemporary realities. They stated that the reform of the multilateral system should be based on inclusive consultation and collaboration for the benefit of all while respecting sovereign independence, equality, mutual legitimate interests and concerns to make the multilateral organizations more responsive, effective, transparent and credible. It should make multilateral organizations more responsive, effective, transparent, democratic, objective, action-oriented, solution-oriented and credible, so as to promote cooperation in building international relations based on the norms and principles of international law, and the spirit of mutual respect, justice, equality, mutual beneficial cooperation and realities of the contemporary world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-other-brics-nations-make-a-joint-push-for-reform-of-multilateral-system-992751.html
02-06-2021||National||DH Toon | Home Ministry notice to Alapan Bandyopadhyay under Disaster Management Act||The Union Home Ministry has served a show-cause notice to just-retired Chief Secretary of West Bengal Alapan Bandyopadhyay under the Disaster Management Act, officials said.  A home ministry official said the notice was served on Bandyopadhyay hours before his retirement on Monday for refusing to comply with the Central government direction, which he said constituted a violation of section 51-B of the Disaster Management Act, 2005.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-home-ministry-notice-to-alapan-bandyopadhyay-under-disaster-management-act-992753.html
02-06-2021||National||Coronavirus India Tracker: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on June 2||India reported 1,32,788 fresh Covid-19 infections and 3,207 deaths in the past 24 hours. While the active cases stood below the 20,000-mark for the second consecutive day, 2,31,456 individuals recovered from the deadly infection. Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  2,83,04,080 as of June 2, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  3,35,102 as of June 2, 2021 1,690,016 20,497 6,535 Total Vaccination: 21,85,46,667 No. of people discharged: 2,61,79,085  Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-tracker-state-wise-covid-19-cases-deaths-on-june-2-992754.html
02-06-2021||National||Harsh Vardhan launches 'revamped' health schemes on IT platform of NHA||Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Tuesday launched "revamped" health schemes for providing cashless, paperless and citizen-centric services. He said that due to lack of timely intervention, delayed response and various hurdles, the poor and the needy were not able to avail the benefits of these health schemes. He launched the revamped Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) and the umbrella schemes of Rashtriya Arogya Nidhi (RAN) and the Health Minister's Discretionary Grant (HMDG) on the National Health Authority (NHA)'s IT platform. "It was one of my dream initiatives and I have been waiting to see the launch of these schemes on NHA's IT platform. This will enable seamless delivery of healthcare services to eligible beneficiaries under these schemes by making the whole process paperless,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/harsh-vardhan-launches-revamped-health-schemes-on-it-platform-of-nha-992787.html
02-06-2021||National||India's healthcare is in shambles and frontline workers are bearing the brunt||Low pay, 24-hour shifts and severe shortages of staff and protective gear have left many doctors on the frontlines of India's brutal pandemic surge near breaking point and fearful for their lives. Coronavirus infections have killed at least 1,65,000 people in the country since the start of April. Although India's latest Covid-19 surge has eased recently, around 3,000 people are still dying every day and the chronically underfunded health care system remains under severe pressure. "We are overworked, stressed and very frightened," Radha Jain, a doctor in the capital New Delhi, told AFP. The Indian Medical Association said more than 1,200 doctors have died of Covid since the start of the pandemic -- including over 500 in the last two months. Deependra Garg, a doctor working in Delhi's outskirts, knows first-hand how dire the situation has become. His wife Anubha, 48, a physician herself, fell ill with Covid in April. They started treatment at home but as her condition worsened, he -- like so many other families -- struggled to get a hospital bed. He eventually found one almost 200 kilometres (120 miles) from their home. But Anubha -- who was fully vaccinated -- died within two weeks, leaving behind their 12-year-old daughter. "We are on the frontlines 24/7. We are exposed to a high virus load but we have to continue working against all odds as we have chosen this profession," Garg said. "We do not have a choice." The pandemic has exposed structural weaknesses in India's healthcare system, particularly in the ill-equipped state-run hospitals. As the latest outbreak spread, reports emerged from short-staffed hospitals of patients lying on floors and sharing beds in packed wards, as family members protected with only cotton masks took care of their stricken loved ones. The government spends less than two percent of GDP on healthcare, one of the lowest rates in the world. India had just 0.8 doctors per 1,000 people in 2017 -- around the same level as Iraq, according to the World Bank. The two other countries worst-hit by the coronavirus, Brazil and the US, had 2.2 and 2.6 respectively. A report from before the pandemic by the US-based Center for Disease Dynamics, Economics and Policy estimated that India needed 6,00,000 more doctors and two million extra nurses to meet its healthcare needs. Doctor Shekhar Kumar, working with a private hospital in the northern state of Uttar Pradesh, said junior staff and final-year medical students sometimes had to work 24-hour shifts. "Compared to last year, this time patients are needing longer hospital stays which is increasing the burden on the staff," Kumar said. He added that they were further stretched when their colleagues fell ill with the virus. Doctors said they had been traumatised by being forced to choose which patients to save first as they grappled with insufficient supplies of medicine and oxygen. Ravikant Singh, the founder of a charity group helping to set up Covid field hospitals, said he struggled to sleep some nights. "It's been a life-changing situation for doctors," Singh told AFP. "The worst part was... we could not save many lives because of the lack of oxygen." Even after completing their punishing shifts, doctors said they worried about infecting their families at home. Kumar said he would constantly think about how the virus was "lurking anywhere and everywhere". "If doctors can't save their (own) lives, how will they save the lives of others?" he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-healthcare-is-in-shambles-and-frontline-workers-are-bearing-the-brunt-992792.html
02-06-2021||National||India sees 1.32 lakh new Covid-19 cases; 3,207 single-day deaths||The Covid-19 death toll climbed to 3,35,102 with 3,207  fresh deaths. The active cases were recorded below 20 lakh for the second consecutive day, the data updated at 8 am showed.      Also, 20,19,773 tests were conducted on Tuesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 35,00,57,330, while the daily positivity was recorded at  6.57 per cent. It has been less than 10 per cent for nine consecutive days, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate has declined to 8.21  per cent.   The active cases have reduced to 17,93,645 comprising 6.34 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 92.48 per cent.    A net decline of 1,01,875 cases has been recorded in the Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for 20th consecutive days. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,61,79,085, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.18 per cent, the data stated.    India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on  November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-132-lakh-new-covid-19-cases-3207-single-day-deaths-992796.html
02-06-2021||National||594 doctors died in India's second Covid wave: IMA||As many as 594 doctors have died due to Covid-19 in the ongoing second wave with Delhi recording the maximum 107 fatalities, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has said. According to the IMA, 748 doctors died of the infection across the country in the first wave of the pandemic. Delhi recorded 107 deaths in the second wave, followed by Bihar 96, Uttar Pradesh 67, Rajasthan 43, Jhakhand 39 and Andhra Pradesh and Telangana 32 each, according to data compiled at the IMA's Covid-19 registry. "Last year 748 doctors across India succumbed to Covid-19, while in the current wave we have lost 594 doctors in a short period," IMA president J A Jayalal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/594-doctors-died-in-indias-second-covid-wave-ima-992800.html
02-06-2021||National||Google moves Delhi HC against order to remove content; claims rules on digital media won't apply to it||US-based Google on Wednesday filed a plea in the Delhi High Court contending that new rules for digital media would not apply to it, as it is a search engine. It asked the court to set aside a single bench judgement of April 20 which directed it to remove content globally, which was flagged as "objectionable" by a female petitioner, for being "offensive".  A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh issued notice to the Centre, Delhi government, Internet Service Providers Association of India, Facebook, the pornographic site and the woman on whose plea the single judge's ruling had come. The court sought a response from the parties on the Google's plea by July 25. The company sought interim protection in the matter from any coercive action or non-compliance of the directions, as despite the court orders the content was not removed in entirety from the World Wide Web. The court, however, said it would not pass any interim order at this stage, though Google submitted it was an intermediary not a social media intermediary. In its plea, Google contended that the April 20 judgment "mischaracterised" its search engine as a 'social media intermediary' or 'significant social media intermediary', which has been covered under the new rules for digital media. Google said it was aggrieved by the blanket, "template directions" issued by a single judge.  It further argued that the judge mixed various sections of the Information Technology Act and separate rules prescribed thereunder and passed template directions combining all such offences and provisions, which it emphasised was bad in law. "The single judge has misinterpreted and misapplied the New Rules 2021," the company claimed in its appeal. According to the template framed by the single judge, when such matters related to offending content come before a court and it is satisfied that an immediate redressal was required at the interim stage, it may issue a direction to the website where the objectional material is hosted to remove the same forthwith and maximum within 24 hours of receiving the judicial order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/google-moves-delhi-hc-against-order-to-remove-content-claims-rules-on-digital-media-wont-apply-to-it-992828.html
02-06-2021||National||We were broken to pieces, mental health assistance is important: Veda recalls Covid trauma in family||"Completely destroyed" after losing her mother and sister to Covid-19 recently, Indian women's team cricketer Veda Krishnamurthy says she is slowly learning to tune herself out of that grief and stressed on the importance of mental health assistance in crisis situations. Nine members of Krishnamurthy's family battled the disease and her mother and sister passed away within two weeks of each other last month in Karnataka. "I'm a big believer in what destiny holds for you, but I really hoped that my sister would come back home. When she didn't, I was completely destroyed. All of us were broken to pieces," Krishnamurthy told ESPNcricinfo in a lengthy post detailing her trauma. "...I still had to put up a brave face for the rest of the family. What I had to do in those testing couple of weeks was learn to tune myself out of my grief. But it keeps coming back to haunt you," she said. The middle-order batter said she was the only one in the family not to contract the virus and ended up coordinating all the medical needs at that time. It was then that she realised how difficult it would have been for several other people to access basic care. "Going through my Twitter feed at the time, I felt a lot of people were struggling with something as basic as getting a doctor to instruct them on what they should be doing - whether that was isolating at home or something else," she recalled. Speaking about the mental aspect of dealing with a health crisis and the ensuing tragedy of such a magnitude, Krishnamurthy said her mother and sister also suffered from anxiety while battling the illness. "Mental strength is important. My oldest sister, Vatsala, had panic attacks before she passed away from Covid," the 28-year-old said. "My mom might also have panicked, because the night before she died of the virus, in my home town, Kadur, about 230km north-west of Bangalore, she learned that everybody else in the family had tested positive, including the kids. I don't know, but maybe that affected her," she said. Krishnamurthy revealed that she has dealt with mental health issues of her own in the past and called for a structured support system for those in need. "A lot of people who are playing cricket currently know what mental health is, but it is also important to accept that if the system is not doing anything to offer you mental-health assistance, you can and must find the support for yourself if you can afford it. "I've had mental-health issues and I've sought support to resolve them myself." Krishnamurthy, who has played 48 ODIs and 76 T20 Internationals, was excluded from the Indian squad for this month's tour of England, where the team is scheduled to play one Test, three ODIs and as many Twenty20 matches. The BCCI had drawn flak from several quarters for not keeping in touch with the bereaved player after which Krishnamurthy received a phone call from Board secretary Jay Shah. "I'm not upset with people who didn't call me or message me. I thank everyone who checked on me. "I did get a call from the BCCI secretary, which I didn't expect, to be honest. He said when he is in Bangalore, he will visit me," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/we-were-broken-to-pieces-mental-health-assistance-is-important-veda-recalls-covid-trauma-in-family-992835.html
02-06-2021||National||India gives more waivers to foreign vaccine companies||Saddled with a Covid-19 vaccine shortage, the Centre has waived the legal requirement of “post-approval bridging trials” and “batch testing” for foreign vaccine manufacturers like Pfizer and Moderna if the vaccine batches have been certified by the National Control Laboratory of the Country of Origin. The Central Drug Standards Control Organisation (CDSCO) on Tuesday issued a notice waiving such regulatory requirements for the vaccines that have been approved for restricted use by the regulatory authorities of the USA, UK, European Union and Japan as well as by the World Health Organisation. This is one of the two key demands of Pfizer, which is in talks with the Centre for the supply of 5 crore doses between July and October. The pharmaceutical giant has also sought a legal indemnity. Asked for details about Pfizer’s proposal, a company spokesperson told DH: “Pfizer continues to remain engaged with the Government of India towards making its Covid-19 vaccine available for use in the government immunisation programme in the country. As these discussions are ongoing, we are unable to share any additional details at this time.” Besides Pfizer, other vaccine manufacturers to be benefitting from the decision are Moderna and Johnson and Johnson.  Moreover, since the CDSCO waiver applies to the vaccines picked up by the WHO for its emergency use list, the waiver can open up the doors for the Chinese Sinovac Covid-19 vaccine that received the WHO approval on June 1. The two-dose of the Chinese vaccine, recommended for use in the 18 years and older population, prevented symptomatic disease in 51% of those vaccinated and halted severe Covid-19 and hospitalisation in 100% of the studied population, the world health body said in a release. The decision to grant the exemption was taken in light of the huge vaccination requirements in India in the wake of the recent surge of Covid-19 cases and the need for increased availability of imported vaccines to meet the national requirements, V G Somani, Drugs Controller General (India) wrote in the notice. However, the safety assessment on the first 100 beneficiaries for seven days and scrutiny of the “summary lot protocol and certificate of analysis of batch” would be carried out before the foreign vaccines are rolled out in the Indian market, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-gives-more-waivers-to-foreign-vaccine-companies-992853.html
02-06-2021||National||State boards should also cancel exams: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party President Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday demanded that state boards should also cancel examinations like those of the CBSE. His remarks come a day after the government decided to cancel the CBSE class 12 board exams amid the continuing Covid-19 pandemic, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi asserting that the decision has been taken in the interest of students and the anxiety among students, parents and teachers must be put to an end. In a tweet in Hindi, Yadav said, "Finally, the insensitive BJP government had to bow down to the pressure of the examinees-parents and they had to take the decision to cancel the CBSE class 12 exams. Now on this basis the examinations of other boards and state boards should also be cancelled". "No examination without vaccination", he added. Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Dinesh Sharma had said in a statement on Tuesday that the cancellation of the exams is in the interest of students, parents and teachers. He said a decision about the class XII exams of the UP Secondary Board would soon be taken after a meeting with the chief minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/state-boards-should-also-cancel-exams-akhilesh-yadav-992858.html
02-06-2021||National||Covid-19 crisis: Sharp uptick in vaccinations needed for Centre’s year-end goal||To meet the Centre’s ambitious plan of vaccinating its entire adult population by the end of 2021, India will need to speed up its Covid-19 vaccination drive manifold. With the current adult population standing at roughly 94 crore, India will need to produce 188 crore doses overall to reach its target, with only 21.5 crore doses having been administered so far. Last week, Union minister Prakash Javadekar vowed the government would inoculate its entire population by the end of this year in response to criticism from Rahul Gandhi against the Centre, claiming only 3 per cent of India’s population had been vaccinated. This leaves about 167 crore jabs to be produced in the remainder of the year, which means the government has to ensure 23.9 crore doses are produced every month on average to meet its goal. So far, about 16 lakh doses per day administered since the vaccination drive began in January, according to data on the Co-WIN website. At the current rate, the country will need close to 1,175 days to be completely vaccinated, which translates to more than three years. If the government is set on meeting its target, this would mean that it would have to increase the average daily vaccination rate by almost 16 times. In May, only 6.1 crore doses were administered even as the country faced the worst of the second wave. The health ministry on Sunday said nearly 12 crore doses of the vaccine would be available in June, but even this falls short of the required figure and represents only 11% of the government’s own estimate of 108 crore doses by the end of the year. Worryingly, registrations for vaccine shots have been sliding in recent weeks as states face an acute vaccine crunch and manufacturers struggle to keep up with demand. Last week, there were only 1.91 crore registrations on the CoWin site, down from a peak of 3.45 crore in the week ended April 30. However, the government has said India would have enough vaccine doses to inoculate up to one crore people per day by mid-July or early August — which would help reach the year-end goal — but it remains to be seen how the Centre will ramp up production so drastically.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-crisis-sharp-uptick-in-vaccinations-needed-for-centre-s-year-end-goal-992881.html
02-06-2021||National||Plea in SC seeks removal of bodies found floating in river Ganga||A plea has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking directions to the Centre and four states, including Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, to take immediate steps to remove the bodies found floating in river Ganga amid the ongoing wave of Covid-19 pandemic. The petition, which referred to reports of bodies found floating in river Ganga in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, urged the apex court to issue guidelines or formulate a standard operating procedure (SOP) for proper and dignified cremation or burial of bodies of victims of coronavirus as per the rituals. The plea, filed by Youth Bar Association of India, sought directions to the chief secretaries and district magistrates to ensure that no dead body is allowed to be thrown in any river on any ground and to take stern action against the culprits. “It is the duty of the state to protect the rights of the deceased, which also includes the right to decent burial/cremation,” said the plea, filed through advocate Manju Jetley. It said the Ganga originates from Uttarakhand and flows down to Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal and floating of corpses in the river would cause environmental hazards and it is also in violation of the guidelines of National Mission for Clean Ganga. The plea said the authorities should be directed to take appropriate measures for ensuring removal of bodies from the Ganga and other rivers. It said the authorities concerned be directed to set up a 24x7 toll free helpline number in every district so that the deceased can be taken to the crematoriums on the request of family members. The plea has also sought directions to the Centre and others to adhere to the last month’s recommendations of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on issues, including on handling of dead bodies. It also referred to earlier verdicts delivered by the apex court which had said that dignity of dead person must be maintained and respected. “In the both natural and unnatural deaths, i.e., suicide, accident, homicide, etc it is the state which is vested with the duty to protect the rights of the deceased and to prevent the crime over the dead bodies,” it said. The plea alleged that “the public authorities have failed to make concentric efforts in educating the masses and checking the immersion of half-burnt or unburnt dead bodies into the river Ganga”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-in-sc-seeks-removal-of-bodies-found-floating-in-river-ganga-992884.html
02-06-2021||National||Why start vaccination centres with so much pomp? Delhi High Court slams govt over shortage of Covaxin||The Delhi High Court Wednesday said if the Delhi government could not ensure that people get both doses of Covaxin within the stipulated time, then it should not have started so many vaccination centres with "much pomp and splendour". Justice Rekha Palli issued notice to the Delhi government and sought its stand on whether it can provide the second dose of Covaxin to those who got the first jab, before the expiry of the incubation period of six weeks between the two doses. The court also issued notice to the Centre on two pleas to make the second dose of both vaccines against Covid-19 -- Covaxin and Covishield -- available in the national capital. "Why did you (Delhi government) start it (vaccination) if you were not sure you can provide the second dose also? You should have stopped. Maharashtra stopped when it found it cannot provide a second dose. You opened so many vaccination centres everywhere with so much pomp and splendour and now you say you don't know when the second dose stock would be available," the court said while hearing the two petitions. One of the petitions has been moved by a lawyer, Ashish Virmani, who received the first dose of Covaxin on May 3 and since May 29 has been unable to book a slot for receiving the second jab which has to be taken within six weeks of the first. Subsequently, he had to travel to Meerut in Uttar Pradesh to receive the second dose of the vaccine, advocate Pallav Mongia, representing Virmani, told the court. During the hearing, Delhi government's additional standing counsel Anuj Aggarwal told the court that the matter of getting stocks was presently between the state and the manufacturer. He said even he is yet to receive his second dose and added that there is a scarcity of Covaxin. Aggarwal said he will seek instructions on by when the stock of Covaxin would be available and whether those who got the first jab can be provided the second dose within the stipulated time of six weeks. The court listed the matter for hearing on June 4.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-start-vaccination-centres-with-so-much-pomp-delhi-high-court-slams-govt-over-shortage-of-covaxin-992886.html
02-06-2021||National||Goa govt to decide on Class 12 board exams by Wednesday evening: CM||The Goa government will go through decisions taken by other states and also consult the Union Education Ministry before taking a call on Class 12 Goa board exams by Wednesday evening, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said. Notably, the Centre on Tuesday cancelled the CBSE Class 12 board exams in view of the Covid-19 situation. After the government's decision, the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) also decided to cancel its Class 12 board examinations this year. On Wednesday, Sawant held a meeting with officials of the Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (GBSHSE) and the state education department to decide on the pending Class 12 state board exams. "We have three suggestions before us right now. One is to cancel the exams, the second is to declare results on internal assessment of marks (secured during the academic year) or allow those who are keen on taking the exam to appear for it, and the third is to declare both the results (internal assessment and final examination) together," Sawant said. The Goa government is looking into the suggestions and will study decisions taken by the education boards of various other states as well as consult the Union Education Ministry by Wednesday evening, he said.   "We will take a call in the matter by evening," the chief minister said. "We are also considering various (higher) exams that science students take (after Class 12) like JEE, NEET. Hence, a decision on the Class 12 exams will be taken today considering all the factors," he said. The CM said 21,000 students are eligible to appear for the Class 12 Goa board exams.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goa-govt-to-decide-on-class-12-board-exams-by-wednesday-evening-cm-992888.html
02-06-2021||National||Justice Arun Mishra takes over as NHRC chief, kicks up row||Six months after his predecessor former CJI H L Dattu retired as NHRC Chairperson, former Supreme Court judge Arun Mishra on Wednesday took charge as the new chairperson of the National Human Rights Commission, an appointment which kicked up a political row and sharp reactions. Along with Mishra, two others who took the charge as NHRC members are Rajiv Jain, former Director of Intelligence Bureau and Justice MM Kumar, former Chief Justice of J&K High Court. Mishra's remarks as a sitting Supreme Court judge lavishly praising Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2020 had raised many eyebrows. TMC MP Mahua Moitra tweeted "Retired SC Judge Arun Mishra to head National Human Rights Commission. All good things come to those who wait. Especially to those who while in office, described PM Modi as “internationally acclaimed visionary who could think globally & act locally”. Mishra had served as a Supreme Court judge from July 2014 to September 2020. Mishra's bench in the Supreme Court had reversed Haren Pandya murder case judgement of Gujarat High Court, which had set aside the judgement of a POTA court and chastised the CBI for its shoddy investigation. The Gujarat government had appealed to the Supreme Court against the HC judgement, which was later set aside by Mishra's bench. A statement from NHRC said during his tenure as a Supreme Court Judge, Mishra delivered 236 judgements. Mishra was among three former CJIs, whose names were considered for the post. Before Mishra, all other NHRC Chairmen in the last more than twenty years have been former Chief Justices of India. This could take place due to an amendment in 2019 in the Protection of Human Rights Act after which any former Supreme Court judge could be appointed for the key post. Leader of Opposition Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, who is a member in the five member selection committee headed by Prime Minister Narenda Modi opposed Mishra's appointment and accused the central government of refusing to consider any SCs, STs, OBCs or minorities for the post. Other members of the panel are Home Minister Amit Shah, Deputy Chairman of Rajya Sabha Harivansh and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla. Kharge, the lone Opposition in the panel had shot off a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on May 31 in this regard when the Committee had met. On Wednesday, he took to Twitter to allege that the appointment smacks of "partisanship and quid pro quo". In a letter to the PM, Kharge had expressed his disagreements with recommendations made by the appointment committee for NHRC Chairperson and Members. Expressing his views on the committee's decision to recommend a panel of names for selection to the post of Chairperson and Members of NHRC, Kharge in his dissent submitted before the panel said that he had earlier written to the Prime Minister proposing that at least one person belonging to SC, ST and Minorities be recommended for appointment either to the post of Chairperson or a member of NHRC from among the existing list of candidates and if needed postpone the meeting for a further date to include such names. "Since the Committee did not accept any of my proposals, I express my disagreement with the recommendations made by the Committee in regard to appointments to the posts of Chairperson and Members of NHRC," Kharge said in the letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/justice-arun-mishra-takes-over-as-nhrc-chief-kicks-up-row-992894.html
02-06-2021||National||Media reports on number of Covid jabs administered in May factually incorrect, claims Centre||The Union health ministry on Wednesday termed as "factually incorrect and without any basis" media reports alleging that while the Centre has promised 12 crore doses of Covid vaccines in June, only around 5.8 crore doses were administered of the 7.9 crore doses available in May. According to the ministry's data at 7 am on June 1, between May 1-31, a total of 6.1 crore vaccine doses were administered by the states and Union territories. A total of 1.62 crore balance and unutilised doses were available with the states. The total number of vaccine shots available from May 1-31 was 7.945 core, the ministry said in a statement. The Centre has been supporting the efforts of the states for an effective vaccination drive under the "Whole of Government" approach since January 16. In order to streamline the availability of vaccine doses, the Centre has been in constant touch with the vaccine manufacturers and has opened up different procurement options for the states and Union territories since May 1. There have been several unfounded media reports that have peddled misinformation among the masses regarding this exercise of national importance, the ministry said, adding that the total number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has reached 21,85,46,667. "There have been media reports alleging the Union Government promising 12 crore doses of vaccines during June 2021 while administering only around 5.8 crore doses from the total of 7.9 crore doses available in the month of May. This report is factually incorrect and without any basis," the statement said.  Some media reports have criticised India's vaccination policy based on unverified quotes, it said, adding that these reports, questioning the prioritisation of population segments, are not supported by full information on the matter. The National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) was formed in August last year to provide guidance on all aspects of vaccine introduction, including prioritisation of beneficiaries, procurement, vaccine selection and its delivery. The prioritisation of beneficiaries for Covid-19 vaccination was based on a review of available scientific evidence, WHO guidelines, global examples and practices followed in other countries, the ministry said. In India, the primary objectives of Covid vaccination are to protect the healthcare workers as part of the pandemic response system, prevent deaths and protect individuals at the highest risk and vulnerability of mortality due to the disease. Accordingly, the vaccination drive has been sequentially expanded to cover the prioritised groups, starting with the healthcare workers (HCWs), followed by the frontline workers (FLWs), then people aged 60 years and above and those aged 45-59 years with 20 identified comorbidities. Subsequently, from April 1, all citizens aged 45 years and above became eligible for vaccination. Such an approach has yielded positive results by achieving more than 81 per cent first-dose coverage among the registered HCWs and around 84 per cent first-dose coverage among the FLWs, thereby protecting these cohorts who are involved in providing healthcare services, surveillance and containment activities amidst the second wave of the pandemic. Also, 37 per cent beneficiaries in the 45 years and above age group have been administered the first dose of the vaccine, whereas 32 per cent of the eligible beneficiaries in this segment have received the second dose, the statement said. From May 1, all citizens aged 18 years and above became eligible for vaccination. A "Liberalised Pricing and Accelerated National Covid-19 Vaccination Strategy" was adopted on May 1 which is guiding the ongoing third phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive.  Under the strategy, every month, 50 per cent of the vaccine doses of any manufacturer cleared by the Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) would be procured by the Centre. It would continue to make these doses available to the states and Union territories for free, as was being done earlier. The remaining 50 per cent doses are available for direct procurement by the states, Union territories and private hospitals, of which the states' share is on a pro-rata basis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/media-reports-on-number-of-covid-jabs-administered-in-may-factually-incorrect-claims-centre-992900.html
02-06-2021||National||Centre tacitly blames states for poor vaccination in May||In a tacit way, the Union Health Ministry on Wednesday blamed the states for poor Covid-19 vaccination in May by pointing out that a total of 1.62 crore doses of the vaccines were left unused with the states when the month ended. Between May 1-31, as many as 6.1 croredoses of vaccines were administered by the states and union territories whereas 1.62 crore unutilised doses were available with states, the ministry said, noting that a total of 79.45 crore doses were available for inoculation in May. The ministry released the data following allegation that the Centre had promised 12 crore doses of vaccines during June 2021 while administering only around 5.8 crore doses from the total of 7.9 crore doses available in May.  This comes at a time when several states have written to the Centre seeking more vaccines particularly for the 18-44 year population. The vaccination rates were down for two weeks in May and picked up only in the last week. “In May, India reported 30% more Covid-19 cases, 146% more deaths, and conducted 34% more tests when compared to April. But, it administered 32% fewer vaccines,” tweeted health economist Rijo John, a visiting faculty at the Indian Institute ofManagement, Kozhikode. The Centre argued that it ensured vaccine supply to the priority groups like healthcare workers, front line staff, senior citizens and people above 45 years. While India has administered at least one dose of the vaccine to 22.08 crore individuals, the first two priority groups – healthcare workers and frontline staff – are yet to receive two doses of the vaccines. Only 68% of healthcare workers and around 45% of frontline staff received both the doses. Till 7 PM on Wednesday, 22.45 lakh doses were administered. “The uptake among health workers is a function of vaccine acceptance, not an issue of access. As informed citizens, their hesitancy could be attributable to lack of transparency around the vaccine efficacy results. Launching a national vaccine delivery programme in a clinical trial mode does not instil confidence,” Oommen John, a senior public health specialist at the George Institute of Global Health told DH. “It is unfortunate that citizens who need to be protected against Covid-19, are caught in the debate on who is at fault for the lack of access to vaccines. If vaccines are a public good, it needs to be universally accessible. Universal access to immunization is a basic function of every health system,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-tacitly-blames-states-for-poor-vaccination-in-may-992903.html
02-06-2021||National||Twitter yet to appoint compliance, nodal officers: Centre||Twitter has appointed an interim grievance redressal officer for its India operations as per the new social media rules announced by the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology. However, it’s still not clear whether the company has appointed a compliance officer and a nodal officer, which was mandatory as per the rules which came into effect from May 26. Dharmendra Chatur, a lawyer, has been appointed as an interim grievance redressal officer of Twitter. WhatsApp has appointed Paresh B Lal as the grievance officer for India. Major social media intermediaries including Google, Facebook, Whatsapp, Koo, Sharechat, Telegram and LinkedIn have shared details with the ministry as per the requirement of the new rules. According to the Ministry, except Twitter, remaining social media firms are appointing both grievance and compliance officers and have intimated it about the same. The new rules were announced in February, which came into force from Wednesday (May 26), require large social media platforms like Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp to follow additional due diligence, including the appointment of a chief compliance officer, nodal contact person and resident grievance officer, monitoring of objectionable content, preparing monthly compliance report and removal of objectionable content. The new rules also specify that social media firms must adopt features such as traceability of messages and voluntary user verification. Non-compliance with the rules would result in these platforms losing the intermediary status that provides them immunity from liabilities over any third party data hosted by them. In other words, they could be liable for criminal action in case of complaints. WhatsApp went to Delhi High Court against the traceability clause, citing it would infringe the privacy of users.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/twitter-yet-to-appoint-compliance-nodal-officers-centre-992907.html
02-06-2021||National||Meet the candidates vying for the ONGC chairman and MD post||Senior bureaucrats Avinash Joshi and Niraj Verma are among the 10 candidates who are in the race to become Chairman and Managing Director of India's largest oil and gas producer, ONGC. Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd (MRPL) director-finance Pomila Jaspal and ONGC director for technology and field services Om Prakash Singh are the other prominent names in fray for the top job, according to a candidate shortlist by the Public Enterprise Selection Board (PESB). PESB - the government headhunter - will hold interviews to select the new head of Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) this week. Both the bureaucrats are from the 1994 batch of IAS officers belonging to the Assam-Meghalaya cadre. They both are principal secretaries in the government of Assam, according to details available from the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) website. While Joshi, who hails from Gujarat, is 53 years old, Verma is from Bihar and turns 52 next month. Others on the PESB shortlist are ONGC executive directors Sandeep Gupta, Pankaj Kumar and Omkar Nath Gyani, ONGC additional director general Anand Gupta, Security Printing and Minting Corp of India Ltd director-finance Ajay Agarwal and Container Corporation of India director-finance Manoj Kumar Dubey. PESB will hold interviews to select a replacement for Shashi Shanker who retired after attaining superannuating age of 60 years at March-end this year. While a replacement is often selected before the incumbent retires, PESB did not hold any interviews for almost seven months as its chairman wasn't appointed. The government in April named Mallika Srinivasan, chairman and managing director of Tractors and Farm Equipment (TAFE) Ltd, as the new chairperson of PESB. She is the first person from the private sector to be appointed as the head of PESB. After Shanker retired, Subhash Kumar, director for finance and senior most director on ONGC board, was given the additional charge of chairman and managing director. Kumar, 59, will retire at the end of December 2021. Other directors on ONGC board either didn't have the mandatory 2-years of tenure left or were barred by the job hopping rule. While Akla Mittal, director for human resources and Rajesh Kumar Srivastava, director for exploration, retire next year, Anurag Sharma, director for onshore was appointed to the job only in June last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/meet-the-candidates-vying-for-the-ongc-chairman-and-md-post-992910.html
02-06-2021||National||Delhi HC asks Juhi Chawla to give short note on plea against 5G technology||The Delhi High Court Wednesday asked actress-environmentalist Juhi Chawla to file a short note on her plea against the setting up of 5G wireless networks in the country while raising issues related to the technology's radiation impact on citizens, animals, flora and fauna. Justice J R Midha said a two-page note be filed by the plaintiff by 2:30 PM and the court will take up the suit for hearing at 3 PM. The court said it will first take up four applications filed by Chawla and two others in the plea, including permission to institute the suit. The court also permitted advocate Amit Mahajan, representing the Department of Telecommunication (DoT) to file a one-and-a half page note to see if an audience is required to be given to it. "Defendants cannot claim right to audience till I issue notice. I will see if they have a right," the judge said. The plea, filed through advocate Deepak Khosla, claimed that these 5G wireless technology plans threaten to provoke serious, irreversible effects on humans and permanent damage to the earth’s ecosystems. The suit, filed by Chawla, Veeresh Malik and Teena Vachani, has said if the telecom industry’s plans for 5G come to fruition, no person, animal, bird, insect and plant on earth will be able to avoid exposure, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, to levels of RF radiation that are 10x to 100x times greater than what exists today. The suit has sought a direction to the authorities to certify to the public at large that how 5G technology is safe to humans, animals and every type of living organism, flora and fauna. “This suit will reveal a complete sell-out by the regulatory agencies who, statutorily, have been tasked to protect the health and life of the public, but whose actions reveal an utter derogation of their own statutory duty in order to advance private interests...,” the plea has alleged. “Since ‘prevention’ is well-accepted to be far better than ‘cure’, immediate measures must be taken to protect humanity and the environment, in accordance with ethical imperatives as well as formal international agreements, before such harm is actually unleashed,” it said. The plea said that in April 2019, Brussels became the first major city in the world to halt any further steps in the 5G rollout on account of health hazards. “In fact, as recently as on May 5, 2021, the Parliament of Belgium, still not willing to allow 5G rollout in Brussels, invited 45 ordinary citizens drawn at random to address it on their concerns, assuring them that the 5G roll-out will not be permitted till they are heard by Parliament and their concerns are properly and fully addressed,” it said. It said the plaintiffs are not against the implementation of technological advancements and they are filing the suit with the sole intent to ensure that health and safety of citizens are preserved and not compromised at any cost, mainly due to the developments and advancements in the “admittedly-untested field” of advanced wireless communication, especially 5G. The plea said that India has also entered the ‘5G race’ in an effort to “flaunt its advancements and achievements” in the field of technology and digital communication. It said the urge to compete in this race has somewhat distracted the nation from taking into consideration some alarming factors to the health of present and future generations. The plea said it is not widely acknowledged that this will also result in unprecedented environmental change on a global scale because the harm from such frequencies is not just to human life but to everything at an “atomic level”. “In other words, in the case of 5G cellular telecommunication, what is being paved the way for is another health-disaster regulatory fiasco, very much like tobacco, asbestos, etcetera, where palpably-visible dangers by such products were being shouted literally from the rooftops, but repeatedly ignored by the regulatory agencies for decades altogether despite undeniable evidence laid on the table, until the protests had reached a deafening crescendo,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-asks-juhi-chawla-to-give-short-note-on-plea-against-5g-technology-992920.html
02-06-2021||National||Explained: Legal hurdles in bringing fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi back to India||India is in dogged pursuit of fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi, one of the prime accused in the Rs 13,500-crore Punjab National Bank loan fraud case, but may run into some legal hurdles before it can get him back within its borders to stand trial. However, the team from India will have their work cut out for them as they attempt to deport Choksi directly to India rather than Antigua, where Choksi had attained citizenship in 2018. The legal problem Choksi’s lawyers have countered Antigua’s claims to say the businessman had not fled Antigua but was abducted from the Caribbean nation, lured into a “honey trap”. Choksi’s legal team has claimed a woman he had met over the past six months invited him to her apartment in Antigua on May 23, where he was kidnapped by a group of men. The lawyers claim he was assaulted and then taken to Dominica on a yacht. Antigua’s Prime Minister Gaston Browne has said Choksi could be extradited directly to India, but this has been met with resistance from Choksi’s legal team, who have urged the High Court to disallow this on grounds of Choksi being an Antiguan citizen, even though the country has begun a process to revoke his citizenship. To complicate matters further, India does not have a standing extradition treaty with Dominica. Choksi’s passport However, it would be difficult for Indian officials to argue that Choksi is still a citizen of the country as India does not recognize dual citizenship and Antigua does not require an immigrant to surrender their passport before assuming citizenship. India’s argument India’s best chances of bringing Choksi home rest on the fact that Interpol has issued a Red Notice against Choksi for financial crimes committed in India, which India would argue makes for a strong legal case against him. Officials would also likely contend that this was Choksi’s only reason to apply for Antiguan citizenship in the first place. However, Choksi’s legal team could drag the issue out and allege human rights violations and suggest India and Antigua were colluding to conduct an extra-judicial extraction.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/explained-legal-hurdles-in-bringing-fugitive-diamantaire-mehul-choksi-back-to-india-992924.html
02-06-2021||National||If vaccine drives can be held in housing societies, why not at homes for senior citizens? asks Bombay HC||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday said when Covid-19 vaccination drives are now being held in several housing societies, why authorities cannot take a step further and go to the homes of senior citizens, specially-abled and bed-ridden people to inoculate them. The court was hearing a PIL filed by lawyers Dhruti Kapadia and Kunal Tiwari, seeking a direction to the Union and state governments to start door-to-door vaccination for senior citizens above the age of 75, specially-abled, bed-ridden and wheelchair-bound people. The petition said such people would not be in a position to step out of their homes and travel to vaccination centres. A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni on Wednesday noted that several housing societies are now tying-up with private hospitals and holding vaccination drives in the society premises itself. "If this is being done, then you (government and other authorities) can take a step further and go to the homes of such people (who are not able to go to vaccination centres)," Chief Justice Datta said. Kapadia on Wednesday told the court though the Centre's policy says door-to-door vaccination was not possible, the Vasai-Virar Municipal Corporation (in neighbouring Palghar district) has started it in its area. The court had last month directed chairman of the 'National Expert Group for Vaccine Administration of Covid-19' (NEGVAC) set up by the Centre to consider the issue of introducing the door-to-door vaccination drive. On Wednesday, Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, appearing for the Centre, sought further time following which the court posted the matter for next hearing on June 8. Singh told the HC that by July-end, the availability of vaccines, both Covishield and Covaxin, will increase. "Currently, there are 90 lakh Covaxin doses available. By the end of July, the number will increase to 5.5 crore. Similarly, the supply of Covishield vaccine will also increase to approximately two crore each month by July," he said. The court then asked Singh by when does the Union government expect the entire population of the country to be administered the first dose of the anti-Covid-19 vaccine. Singh said the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has said it would be done by December 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/if-vaccine-drives-can-be-held-in-housing-societies-why-not-at-homes-for-senior-citizens-asks-bombay-hc-992930.html
02-06-2021||National||Covid-19: Open banquet halls for vaccinations, say hoteliers||The apex body of hotels and restaurants in the country, Federation of Hotel & Restaurant Associations of India (FHRAI) has urged the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare (MoHFW)  to make necessary changes in the vaccination guidelines to include banquet halls in hotels as venues for mass immunisation for the corporate sector. The FHRAI has stated that banquet halls in hotels are better equipped than schools, colleges, or community halls for this purpose. It further said that during the first lockdown many hotels were requisitioned by local authorities for accommodating doctors and medical workers and also for quarantining Covid-19 patients and hence they are aware of all the safety protocols and are fully capable of conducting mass vaccination at their venues. “Our country is carrying out one of the world’s biggest vaccination drives. Time is of the essence and the quicker we manage to vaccinate the entire population, the better it will be for the nation. The availability of vaccines is anticipated to only increase from here during which safe and controlled environments will be required to accommodate and vaccinate citizens. Banquet halls in hotels offer just the right kind of venue that will facilitate and expedite the vaccination drive,” says Mr. Gurbaxish Singh Kohli, Vice President, FHRAI. The FHRAI, however, has expressed regret with reference to some hotels letting out premises to private hospitals for mass immunisation programs for corporates. It has advised all its member hotels to not indulge in any such endeavour that contravenes the national Covid-19 vaccination guidelines. According to him, the Indian hotel industry’s total revenue fell roughly 75 per cent in the last financial year. The industry took a revenue hit of close to Rs.1.30 lakh crore in FY 2020-21. In FY 2019-20, it had earned a revenue of 1.82 lakh crore. The hospitality industry’s revenue at the beginning of 2021 was below 20 per cent of pre-pandemic levels, and since April 2021 the revenue hasn’t even crossed 5 per cent of that. Engulfed in massive losses and mounting debts due to the pandemic, the hospitality sector in the country is in a very gloomy economic situation. “Under these extraordinary circumstances, we are hoping that the government could extend its support by allowing us to open banquet venues for mass vaccination. This will give our industry some source of revenue while contributing to the nation in its vaccination drive. The hospitality industry is committed to follow all the health and safety protocols issued by the Government and it has our unwavering support in its efforts to combat the present pandemic,” said Kohli.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-open-banquet-halls-for-vaccinations-say-hoteliers-992933.html
02-06-2021||National||Union Cabinet approves Model Tenancy Act: District-wise rent courts, new security deposit rules||Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved the Model Tenancy Act, which stipulates that an owner has to collect a maximum of two months rent as security deposit from a tenant for residential premises and six months rent for commercial establishments. The cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi approved the 'model law', which means it is up to states to decide whether to adopt it or not. States can either adopt this as a new law or amend their existing tenancy act. The move is aimed at overhauling the legal framework with respect to rental housing across the country. The proposal is expected to give a fillip to private participation in rental housing as a business model for addressing housing shortage, said the Union Housing Ministry in a statement. "The Union Cabinet approved the Model Tenancy Act for circulation to all states/union territories for adaptation by way of enacting fresh legislation or amending existing rental laws suitably," the statement stated. ​The model Act envisages balancing interests and rights of both owners and tenants in an accountable and transparent manner, Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Puri told media persons. The Ministry brought the model Act as the existing rent control laws are restricting growth of rental housing and discouraging owners from renting out their vacant houses due to fear of not getting them back, said the Minister. ​As per Census 2011, more than 1 crore houses were lying vacant in urban areas across the country. According to model law, after enforcement of this Act, no person shall let or take on rent any premises except by an agreement in writing. The Act will be applicable prospectively and will not affect existing tenancies. Rent and duration of the tenancy are to be fixed by mutual consent between owner and tenant through a written agreement, said the statement from the Ministry of Housing. The model act seeks to cover urban and as well as rural areas and it mandates for written agreement for all new tenancies, which is to be submitted to Rent Authority. Some of the features of the Act include a digital platform in the local vernacular language or the language of the State/UT for submitting tenancy agreement and other documents, time-bound and robust grievance redressal mechanism comprising of Rent Authority, Rent Court and Rent Tribunal to provide fast-track resolution of disputes, disposal of complaints/appeals by rent court and rent tribunal within 60 days. The tenant will have to continue to pay the rent even during the pendency of a dispute with a landlord. Eviction of tenant is not allowed during currency of tenancy period except in accordance with provisions of the Act. The jurisdiction of civil courts is barred when dispute arises.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-cabinet-approves-model-tenancy-act-district-wise-rent-courts-new-security-deposit-rules-992937.html
02-06-2021||National||Cabinet approves India-Japan memorandum of cooperation on urban development||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved a memorandum of cooperation with Japan in the field of sustainable urban development which is expected to create employment opportunities. According to an official statement, the memorandum of cooperation (MoC) will be signed between the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs and the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism, Japan in supersession of an existing MoU of 2007 on urban development. The MoC is expected to create employment opportunities in the areas of sustainable urban development, including urban planning, smart cities development, affordable housing, urban flood management, sewerage and wastewater management, urban transport — including intelligent transport management system — transit-oriented development and multimodal integration and disaster resilient development. The proposed memorandum of cooperation will enable exchange of key learnings and best practices, the statement said. A Joint Working Group (JWG) will be constituted to strategise and implement programmes on cooperation under the framework of the MoC. The JWG will meet once in a year, alternately in Japan and in India. The cooperation under this MoC will commence on the day it is signed and continue for a period of five years. The agreement will promote strong, deep and long-term bilateral cooperation in the field of sustainable urban development between the two countries, the statement said. The Union Cabinet was also apprised of a memorandum of understanding signed between the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs and Ministry of National Planning, Housing and Infrastructure, Maldives on cooperation in the field of sustainable urban development.  The MoU was signed in February this year. The objective of the MoU is to facilitate and strengthen India-Maldives technical cooperation in the field of sustainable urban development, including urban planning, smart cities development, solid waste management, affordable housing, urban green mobility and urban mass rapid transport, another statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-approves-india-japan-memorandum-of-cooperation-on-urban-development-992941.html
02-06-2021||National||Despite curtailed railway services, 8,700 people died on tracks in 2020||Over 8,700 people were mowed down on railway tracks in 2020 even though passenger train services were severely curtailed during the year due to the national coronavirus lockdown, with officials saying many of the victims were migrant workers. The Railway Board shared the data on such deaths for the period between January and December 2020 in its reply to a question by Madhya Pradesh-based activist Chandra Shekhar Gaur under the Right to Information Act. "Based on the information received from the State Police, 805 people suffered injuries and 8,733 people died on the railway track between January 2020 and December 2020," the Railway Board has said. Officials separately said that many of those dead were migrant workers who chose to walk home along the tracks because train routes are considered shorter than roads or highways. They said these workers also chose the tracks as this way they could evade police for violating lockdown norms, and also had the belief they would not get lost midway.  "They also assumed that no trains would be running because of the lockdown," one of the officials said. While the fatalities during 2020 were lesser compared to four years immediately before that, the numbers are still significant given the fact that the passenger services were restricted after the coronavirus lockdown was announced on March 25. Only freight trains were in operation during the lockdown and before the railways started Shramik Special trains from May 1 to ferry migrant workers home. The passenger services have been reopening in phases, and by December, around 1,100 special trains were in operation along with 110 regular passenger trains. The services have now been restored to 70 per cent of the pre-Covid-19 period. While many fatalities on tracks last year could not be registered for some reason or the other, the deaths of 16 migrant workers after being run over by a freight train in Maharashtra’s Aurangabad last May rattled many as they were killed while resting on the tracks thinking no train would be coming due to the Covid-19 suspension.  According to Railways figures, compiled from state governments, 56,271 people died and 5,938 were injured in such incidents between 2016 and 2019, registering an increasing trend, with 2017 being an exception. As many 14,032 people died in such accidents in 2016, 12,838 in 2017, 14,197 in 2018 and 15,204 in 2019, the figures showed. However, the Railways do not consider these deaths "railway accidents". Railway’s death statistics are maintained in three forms -- consequential accidents, trespassing and untoward incidents. These deaths come under the category of "untoward incidents" or "trespassing", and are investigated by state police and the victims are also compensated by state governments concerned. The Railways has carried out massive campaigns to reduce such deaths and also paid ex gratia to the kin of the victim on sympathetic grounds in some cases. The measures taken by the Railways include elimination of unmanned-level crossings over the broad gauge network, signal modernisation, the use of modern machines in maintenance, among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/despite-curtailed-railway-services-8700-people-died-on-tracks-in-2020-992965.html
02-06-2021||National||From the Newsroom: 594 doctors died of Covid during second wave, says IMA||In your evening news brief, Delhi High Court slams government over vaccination; IMA reveals that 594 doctors succumbed to the virus during the second Covid-19 wave, and T20 World Cup could be moved from India to the United Arab Emirates. Here is the top news of June 2, 2021:   The Delhi High Court Wednesday said if the Delhi government could not ensure that people will get both the doses of Covaxin within the stipulated time, then it should not have started so many vaccination centres with "much pomp and splendour". Justice Rekha Palli issued notice to the Delhi government and sought its stand on whether it can provide the second dose of Covaxin to those who got the first jab, before the expiry of the incubation period of six weeks between the two doses.   The Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Wednesday revealed that 594 doctors succumbed to the virus during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. The highest number of deaths occurred in Delhi (107), followed by Bihar (96), and Uttar Pradesh (67).   This year's men's T20 World Cup could be moved from India to the United Arab Emirates, the International Cricket Council said Tuesday. The move appears to have been prompted by the rising number of Covid-19 cases in India, although this was not mentioned directly in a statement issued by the global governing body.   Source: DHNS/ PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-594-doctors-died-of-covid-during-second-wave-says-ima-992967.html
02-06-2021||National||HC questions Juhi Chawla for raising 5G issue in court without approaching government||The Delhi High Court Wednesday questioned actress-environmentalist Juhi Chawla for directly filing a suit against setting up of 5G wireless networks in the country without giving any representation to the government on her concerns related to the technology. Justice J R Midha said the plaintiffs, Chawla and two others, were required to first approach the government for their rights and if denied, they should come to the court. The court after hearing the arguments of various parties reserved its order on the suit. The plea claimed that 5G wireless technology plans threaten to provoke serious, irreversible effects on humans and permanent damage to the earth’s ecosystems. The suit, filed by Chawla, Veeresh Malik and Teena Vachani, said that if the telecom industry’s plans for 5G come to fruition, no person, animal, bird, insect and plant on earth will be able to avoid exposure, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, to levels of RF radiation that are 10x to 100x times greater than what exists today.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-questions-juhi-chawla-for-raising-5g-issue-in-court-without-approaching-government-992970.html
02-06-2021||National||Fact-check: Truth about viral video of 'alien/ghost' spotted on highway in Jharkhand||A video of a strange figure walking on a highway at night took both media and social media by storm. The 30-second clip has been shared with the claim that an ‘alien’ or a ‘ghost’ was spotted in India. Several people have claimed that the video was taken in Hazaribagh, Jharkhand. A few have also tagged NASA, writing that a UFO was spotted. India Today posted the video on its Instagram handle. Alt News spoke with local journalist Saurav Anurag from Hazaribagh. “This video is from Seraikela, not Hazaribagh. The person who recorded the video gave a live interview to a local news outlet where he disclosed the location and time of recording. The original video is about 1:30 minutes long and the viral clip runs for 30 seconds,” he said. While the place has been identified as a bridge near Chadwa Dam in Hazaribagh, Anurag said that he visited the bridge and the one in the video is completely different. “The bridge near Chadwa Dam is all black (asphalt) and not cemented (concrete) as seen in the video. The incident took place in Seraikela located in Kharsawan district,” he added. Local channel Jan Doot News interviewed the two youth who recorded the viral video. One of them was identified as Deepak. They said that while returning from Chakradharpur to Seraikela via Kharsawan road, they spotted a strange woman walking naked. They thought she was a witch and shouted “Chudail hai, ladki hai, record kar, record kar!” (Witch, Witch! It’s a girl. Record it!).” They posted a 30-second Whatsapp status which was amplified on social media.  Alt News reached out to Deepak to gather more details. “We were returning to Seraikela from Chakradharpur after attending a funeral of a friend’s mother. We got scared when we first saw the woman and stopped at a shop near the highway. When a few others reached the spot, we asked if they too saw the woman. She was not a witch. She was a woman and this was also confirmed by other passers-by.” Deepak told us that the incident took place on the night of April 27. He shared with us a screenshot of the properties of the video. The metadata confirms it was indeed shot on April 27 at 7:40 pm on National Highway 75, Ichinda, Jharkhand.   Deepak sent the original video which is 1:28 minutes long.  He also sent us a video of himself debunking online rumours.  Alt News contacted both Chakradharpur and Seraikela police stations about the viral clip. Seraikela sub-inspector Mohammad Noushad told us that the matter is being investigated. This report will be updated when the police respond. It is unclear why the woman was walking unclothed on a highway at night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fact-check-truth-about-viral-video-of-alien/ghost-spotted-on-highway-in-jharkhand-992981.html
02-06-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: 594 doctors lost their lives in second wave, says IMA||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-594-doctors-lost-their-lives-in-second-wave-says-ima-992986.html
02-06-2021||National||Covid-19 disaster leaves deep scars on India's economy||Expectations for India’s economic growth are being revised sharply lower as a surge in people losing their jobs and defaulting on debt suggest a more halting recovery from the financial shock of the Covid-19 pandemic. Economists are downgrading their estimates as a range of data – from the rate of cheques bouncing to the amount of mortgaged gold jewellery up for sale - shows the extent of the economic damage from a devastating second wave of the disease. Some observers also fear the psychological blow from the virus disaster that ripped through India this year killing tens of thousands of people will leave consumer reluctant to spend. India’s government is sticking with a forecast that the economy will grow 10.5 per cent in the fiscal year that started on April 1, but on Tuesday State Bank of India - the country's largest lender - slashed its growth forecast to 7.9 per cent from 10.4 per cent. Several international banks such as Barclays and UBS have also cut back their predictions. After a 7.3 per cent contraction in 2020-21 - the sharpest ever recorded by India - the relatively muted recovery puts India at odds with countries like United States and China that are seeing a swift rebound as they emerge from the pandemic, and suggests deeper damage has been done to an economy worth around $2.9 trillion before the crisis hit. The knock-on effects of sub-par growth on a rapidly developing economy like India could be significant. "GDP growth of less than 10 per cent will be a - I won't use the word disaster, but it will not be very beautiful," SBI's Chief Economist Soumya Kanti Ghosh told Reuters after lowering his forecast. The situation has exacerbated unemployment that touched a 12-month high of 11.9 per cent in May from 7.97 per cent in April, according to data from the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy. Rural unemployment that normally hovers around 6-7 per cent also hit double digit levels in May, according to the privately owned firm. Last year, India announced a $266 billion package to support the economy during a strict nationwide lockdown to contain the first coronavirus wave. But this was largely liquidity support given to banks to boost company credit, with less than a tenth of the sum used for welfare programmes for the poorest in the country.. India did not launch job support schemes on the scale of those seen in some developed economies and the government has not announced a major stimulus package since the second wave hit. Surging unemployment, coupled with state lockdowns, a large increase in hospitalizations and fatalities amid the second wave and fears of a third wave, are prompting many people to cut spending. Sales of goods including grocery, footwear, apparel and beauty products fell 49 per cent in April, according to the Retail Association of India, whose head Kumar Rajagopalan anticipates a bigger decline in May. Meanwhile, sales of cars and motorcycles fell 30 per cent in April over March and are expected to slump by over 60 per cent in May as automakers including Maruti Suzuki and Hero MotoCorp halted production for several days amid rising infections. Dealerships remain closed. While car sales bounced back after the first wave last year it was not on a scale seen elsewhere and the recovery was brief. In many other economies demand for big-ticket purchases soared when pent-up demand was released, with new car sales in Europe jumping 256 per cent year-on-year in April. Shashank Srivastava, executive director at Maruti Suzuki, India's biggest carmaker, pointed to a deep psychological impact from the second virus wave as the surge in deaths and hospitalizations caused distress and fear among people. "Cars are a discretionary purchase that require people to be in a good frame of mind," he said. Defaults rising One of India's largest gold-financing companies, Manappuram Finance, auctioned gold worth about $55 million in the January-March quarter compared with $1.1 million in the preceding three quarters combined. The sales are being driven by rising defaults on mortgages secured on families' gold jewellery which is typically passed on from generation to generation, a sign of long-term economic stress, experts say. Another warning sign is a rise in 'cheque bounces', which typically occur when there are insufficient funds in an individual's account to meet deductions for loan payments or settlement of credit card bills. In May, the cheque bounce rate for loan payments doubled to 21 per cent from a year ago, while for credit cards it rose to 18 per cent from 10 per cent, according to data from Creditas Solutions, a fintech company involved in digital loan collections and recoveries. HDFC Bank, the country's largest private bank, warned of further delinquencies in the coming months in the retail segment, which includes loans given to individuals for personal use. Highlighting the level of uncertainty in the financial sector, HDFC Bank's CEO Sashidhar Jagdishan said on an investor call that for the "first time in so many years we may not have a grip of what is happening." According to a survey conducted by polling agency CVOTER, living standards of a large number of people have sharply fallen and most people do not see "any ray of hope in the coming 12 months." CVOTER's head Yashwant Deshmukh told Reuters people are going to hold back on buying a plethora of goods including cars and instead spend on insurance products and online skill development courses to make themselves more employable. "Nobody's going to splurge," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-disaster-leaves-deep-scars-on-indias-economy-992993.html
02-06-2021||National||Delhi HC calls Juhi Chawla’s suit against 5G technology ‘defective’, says filed for media publicity||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday termed as “defective” the suit of actress-environmentalist Juhi Chawla against setting up of 5G wireless networks in the country and said it was filed for “media publicity”. Justice J R Midha said the plaintiffs, Chawla and two others, were required to first approach the government for their rights and if denied, they should come to the court. The court, which reserved order on the suit after hearing the arguments of various parties, also asked as to why as many as 33 parties have been added to the plaint and said it is not permitted under the law. “It is not the sweet will of the plaintiff to join as many parties and cause of action. Please see the memo of parties. Tell me how you have joined them. Every party cannot be arrayed in the suit,” the judge said. The court further said, “It is a defective plaint. This suit has been filed only for media publicity and nothing more than that. It is very shocking.” “Did you approach the government with a representation? If yes, is there any denial?,” the court asked to which the plaintiffs’ counsel replied in negative. The court said in the suit, the plaintiff says ‘I have personal knowledge of paragraphs 1 to 8’ only. “Plaintiff has no personal knowledge of the plaint. I am surprised. How can it be? Is the suit permissible when the plaintiff has no personal knowledge of the averment? I have not seen a suit where a person says I don’t know, please conduct an inquiry,” the judge said. The court asked about the knowledge of plaintiffs on the facts and warned to prosecute them on filing false claims. The plea claimed that 5G wireless technology threatens to provoke serious, irreversible effects on humans and permanent damage to the earth’s ecosystems. The suit, filed by Chawla, social worker Veeresh Malik and Teena Vachani, said that if the telecom industry’s plans for 5G come to fruition, no person, animal, bird, insect and plant on earth will be able to avoid exposure, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, to levels of RF radiation that are 10x to 100x times greater than what exists today. Advocate Deepak Khosla, representing the plaintiffs, said the 5G technology trials involving human population have been done and added that these are not "pigs and rats". The court was hearing arguments only on several applications filed by the plaintiffs, including payment of court fees and permission to institute a suit. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta and advocate Amit Mahajan, representing the Department of Telecommunications, said the 5G policy does not fall in the category of public nuisance and it is obviously not prohibited in law.  Mehta said the plaintiffs need to show how the technology is wrongful and termed the suit as an ill-conceived litigation. Mahajan said the plaintiffs could have filed a PIL if they wanted to avoid depositing court fees. “What is the hidden agenda”, he said, adding that a petition on similar issues was earlier filed by the plaintiffs before the Bombay High Court and it was not pending in the Supreme Court, which was the reason for not filing a PIL and instituting a private suit. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, representing private telecom companies, said launching of 5G technology is a policy of the government and as it is a policy, it cannot be a wrongful act. On the issue of public nuisance, he said it has to be first established by the plaintiffs that the policy is a public nuisance and they cannot just make averments and get the relief. “They have to establish that the policy itself is wrong,” he said. Kholsa said the implementation of 5G technology should not be done at the cost of others. On being asked by the court as to what was the special damage done to the plaintiffs, the counsel said, “I am suffering radiation every time I use a cellphone”. The suit has sought a direction to the authorities to certify to the public at large that how 5G technology is safe to humans, animals and every type of living organism, flora and fauna. “This suit will reveal a complete sell-out by the regulatory agencies who, statutorily, have been tasked to protect the health and life of the public, but whose actions reveal an utter derogation of their own statutory duty in order to advance private interests...,” the plea has alleged. “Since ‘prevention’ is well-accepted to be far better than ‘cure’, immediate measures must be taken to protect humanity and the environment, in accordance with ethical imperatives as well as formal international agreements, before such harm is actually unleashed,” it said. The plea said that in April 2019, Brussels became the first major city in the world to halt any further steps in the 5G rollout on account of health hazards. “In fact, as recently as on May 5, 2021, the Parliament of Belgium, still not willing to allow 5G rollout in Brussels, invited 45 ordinary citizens drawn at random to address it on their concerns, assuring them that the 5G roll-out will not be permitted till they are heard by Parliament and their concerns are properly and fully addressed,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-calls-juhi-chawla-s-suit-against-5g-technology-defective-says-filed-for-media-publicity-993010.html
02-06-2021||National||Constitution does not envisage courts to be silent spectators: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court has decided to examine the Centre's Covid-19 vaccination policy for age group of 18-44 years, saying judicial review and soliciting constitutional justification for policies formulated by the executive is an essential function, entrusted to the courts. "Separation of powers does not result in courts lacking jurisdiction in conducting a judicial review of these policies. Our Constitution does not envisage courts to be silent spectators when constitutional rights of citizens are infringed by executive policies," a bench presided over by Justice D Y Chandrachud said. The Union government has told the court there is little room for judicial interference in the management of Covid-19, a global pandemic, where response and strategy was completely driven by expert medical and scientific opinion. "Any overzealous, though well-meaning judicial intervention, may lead to unforeseen and unintended consequences, in absence of any expert advice or administrative experience, leaving the doctors, scientists, experts and executive very little room to find innovative solutions on the go," it had said. Responding to the government's assertion, the bench, also comprising Justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat, said this court would, under the auspices of an open court judicial process, conduct deliberations with the executive where justifications for existing policies would be elicited and evaluated to assess whether they survived constitutional scrutiny. The bench said it would continue to exercise jurisdiction to determine if the chosen policy measure conformed to the standards of reasonableness, militated against manifest arbitrariness and protected the right to life of all persons. The bench also pointed out courts across the globe have responded to constitutional challenges to executive policies and warned against arbitrary and irrational policies being excused in the garb of the “wide latitude” to the executive that is necessitated to battle a pandemic. The court referred to the Supreme Court of United States, which in various instances, has overruled policies by observing, “Members of this court are not public health experts...But even in a pandemic, the Constitution cannot be put away and forgotten” and “a public health emergency does not give Governors and other public officials carte blanche to disregard the Constitution for as long as the medical problem persists."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/constitution-does-not-envisage-courts-to-be-silent-spectators-supreme-court-993021.html
02-06-2021||National||Tobacco use may lead to 10 mn deaths per year globally by 2030: NICPR director||Tobacco use may lead to 10 million deaths per year across the world by 2030, National Institute of Cancer Prevention and Research (NICPR) Director Shalini Singh has said. She said the goal should be to provide every possible support to tobacco users in quitting and suggested increasing taxes on tobacco products to reduce their consumption in the country. "With the current pace of tobacco consumption, it has been estimated that about 10 million lives would be lost annually by 2030 and the use of tobacco would be the sole reason for it," Singh said in a statement. She said tobacco is not only burning a hole in the pocket of its users but it's also taking away their lives. Singh also suggested standardisation of smokeless tobacco products, banning sale of tobacco products in loose, and a stringent regulatory mechanism to control surrogate advertisements of smokeless tobacco products as necessary measures to reduce their consumption in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tobacco-use-may-lead-to-10-mn-deaths-per-year-globally-by-2030-nicpr-director-993040.html
02-06-2021||National||Police plea for further custodial interrogation of Sushil Kumar rejected, sent to judicial custody||A court Wednesday rejected a Delhi Police plea for three more days of custodial interrogation of Olympic medallist wrestler Sushil Kumar over the alleged murder of a young wrestler at Chhatrasal Stadium and sent him to judicial custody. Sushil Kumar, who was produced before Metropolitan Magistrate Rashmi Gupta at the end of the four-day police custody, was sent to judicial custody for 14 days. He is facing charges of murder, cupable homicide and kidnapping. The international wrestler was arrested on May 23. Following his arrest, the court had remanded him to six days police custody, which was later extended by four more days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/police-plea-for-further-custodial-interrogation-of-sushil-kumar-rejected-sent-to-judicial-custody-993055.html
02-06-2021||National||Delhi to provide free ration to needy from June 5||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday said the Delhi government will start providing ration to the needy without ration cards from June 5. "Ration has started reaching government schools from today. Those who do not have ration card will also start receiving ration from June 5," he tweeted in Hindi. Earlier, Delhi's Food and Civil Supplies Minister Imran Hussain had said the Delhi government will distribute 4 kg wheat and 1 kg rice per person for free among those not covered under the Public Distribution System.  One school each in every ward has been earmarked for free food grain distribution. According to the Delhi government's estimates, around 20 lakh people who don't have ration cards will be eligible to receive 5 kg food grain free as part of this measures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-to-provide-free-ration-to-needy-from-june-5-993064.html
02-06-2021||National||Mumbai vaccination centres to remain closed on June 3, says BMC||The Covid-19 vaccination drive will remain suspended in Mumbai on Thursday at the centres run by the city civic body and the Maharashtra government due to the unavailability of a sufficient number of doses, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said on Wednesday. Of the total 342 active Covid-19 vaccination centres in Mumbai, 243 are managed by the BMC and 20 by the state government. The decision to suspend the vaccination drive on Thursday was taken due to the unavailability of a sufficient number of vaccines, the civic body said in a release. Dear Mumbaikars, Please note that all BMC and Government vaccination centers will be closed tomorrow (June 3, 2021). We apologize for the inconvenience. A total of 33,24,428 citizens were administered Covid-19 vaccine doses in Mumbai till June 1. The BMC said it was expecting to receive vaccines anytime throughout the day on June 3. Thereafter, the inoculation drive will resume the next day (June 4). As of Wednesday, Mumbai's Covid-19 case count stands at 7,08,007 while the overall death toll is 14,938. The financial capital is now left with 16,580 active cases, as per the BMC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mumbai-vaccination-centres-to-remain-closed-on-june-3-says-bmc-993072.html
02-06-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccination: Marginalised sections would bear brunt due to digital divide, says SC||A vaccination policy exclusively relying on digital portal CoWIN for inoculating those aged between 18 to 44 years would be unable to meet its target of universal immunization due to the “digital divide” and the marginalised sections of the society would bear the brunt of the “accessibility barrier”, the Supreme Court has said. The apex court said such policy could have serious implications on the fundamental right to equality and the right to health of persons within the age group of 18 to 44 years. It also noted that even the digitally literate are finding it hard to procure vaccination slots through CoWIN portal. The top court also wanted to know from the Centre whether it has conducted a disability audit for CoWIN website and IT application like Aarogya Setu to ensure that they are accessible to persons with disabilities and noted that it has been brought to its knowledge that CoWIN platform is not accessible to persons with visual disabilities and the website suffers from certain accessibility barriers. A special bench headed by Justice D Y Chandrachud referred to the annual report of Common Service Centres (CSC) for 2019-20 published by the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, another report of the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India and also a survey on ‘Household Social Consumption: Education’ conducted by the National Statistics Office between July 2017-June 2018. “It is clear from the above statistics that there exists a digital divide in India, particularly between the rural and urban areas. The extent of the advances made in improving digital literacy and digital access falls short of penetrating the majority of the population in the country. Serious issues of the availability of bandwidth and connectivity pose further challenges to digital penetration,” said the bench, also comprising Justices L N Rao and S R Bhat. The bench made the observations in its May 31 order, passed in the suo motu case on distribution of essential supplies and services during the COVID-19 pandemic, which was uploaded on the apex court website on Wednesday. “A vaccination policy exclusively relying on a digital portal for vaccinating a significant population of this country between the ages of 18-44 years would be unable to meet its target of universal immunization owing to such a digital divide. It is the marginalized sections of the society who would bear the brunt of this accessibility barrier,” it said. The bench noted that in its April 30 order, the court had highlighted the concerns relating to the ability of marginalised members of society to avail COVID-19 vaccination, exclusively through a digital portal in the face of a digital divide. It also noted that according to the annual report of CSC for 2019-20 published by the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, while there are 2,53,134 Gram Panchayats in India, only 2,40,792 are covered with at least one registered CSC as on March 31, 2020. It directed the Centre to clarify whether "it may not be feasible to require majority of our population to rely on friends/NGOs for digital registrations over CoWIN, when even the digitally literate are finding it hard to procure vaccination slots” and said over-crowding may also arise at CSCs in rural areas where people would have to visit constantly in hope of a vaccine slot opening up. “Certain vaccination centres may be earmarked for on-site registrations for the population aged between 18-44 years without the existing conditions prescribed in the circular dated May 24, 2021, potentially with a view to prioritize those with co-morbidities/disabilities/other socio-economic vulnerabilities,” it noted. “Alternatively, whether specific daily quotas may be introduced for on-site registration at each centre or specific centres,”it asked. It directed the Centre to clarify that this policy may not allay the issue of hesitancy which may arise from approaching a state authority, such as the district immunization task force, to obtain registration for the vaccination and also on whether on-site registration with self-attestation of age to ensure widespread vaccination can be provided. It sought clarification that CoWIN platform and other IT applications like ‘Aarogya Setu’ should be made available in regional languages and also on the timeline for ensuring the availability of the platform in multiple regional languages. The bench asked the Centre to clarify on conducting a disability audit for CoWIN website and IT application like Aarogya Setu to ensure that they are accessible to persons with disabilities. The court noted CoWIN platform is not accessible to persons with visual disabilities and the website suffers from certain accessibility barriers which should be addressed. The bench noted some of these issues, audio or text captcha is not available, the seven filters which include age group, name of vaccine and whether the vaccine is paid or free, are not designed accessibly and can be addressed. “While visually challenged persons can determine the number of available vaccine slots, one cannot find out the day those slots correspond to. This can be resolved by ensuring that table headers correspond to associated cells”. It noted keyboard support for navigating the website is absent and adequate time should be given to disabled users to schedule their appointment without the possibility of being automatically logged off. “Accessibility protocols, such as use of appropriate colour contrasts, should be adhered to,” the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccination-marginalised-sections-would-bear-brunt-due-to-digital-divide-says-sc-993089.html
02-06-2021||National||Rahul Gandhi's new unfollow list on Twitter grabs attention||Rahul Gandhi now follows football legend Pele, documentary filmmaker Anand Patwardhan, economist Kaushik Basu and former cricketer Anil Kumble among 219 people on Twitter, but what made headlines on Wednesday was the people whom he unfollowed on the social media. The list included journalists like Barkha Dutt and Rajdeep Sardesai and his aides working in his office, and it even led to an online live audio discussion on social media platform 'Club House' moderated by one of his supporters, who was also unfollowed. At present, Rahul has 18.8 million followers and he is following 219 accounts till late Wednesday night. He had started the "purge", as a Congress functionary put it, on Tuesday. Among those who were unfollowed by Rahul also include AltNews co-founder Pratik Sinha, his close aide Nikhil Alva and other staff members, besides a number of reporters covering Congress among others. Most of the handles now he follows are party leaders or party-related handles and intellectuals like Basu or sportspersons like Pele and Kumble. He also continues to follow former Chief Election Commissioner S Y Quraishi, lawyer Karuna Nundy and others. Sanjukta Basu, a staunch supporter of Rahul Gandhi and Consulting Editor with National Herald tweeted, "including me, Rahul Gandhi has unfollowed almost every media person such as Barkha, Nidhi (Razdan), Sardesai, etc. and is now only following Congress leaders, Congress unit handles, and a few very renowned activists and people. Cleaning up his timeline." A TV journalist who covers Congress, Pallavi Ghosh tweeted, “It’s totally a leaders’ prerogative to follow unfollow- but the way done reflects distrust of a professional or profession u also need to take along (sic).” Ghosh was unfollowed by Gandhi. Among the journalists, he is still following P Sainath and Mrinal Pande and a few others. However, he has chosen to unfollow activist Harsh Mander and comedian Kunal Kamra among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhis-new-unfollow-list-on-twitter-grabs-attention-993093.html
02-06-2021||National||India brings forward target of 20% ethanol-blending in petrol to 2023||The government has brought forward the target date for achieving 20 per cent ethanol-blending with petrol by two years to 2023 to help reduce India's dependence on costly oil imports, according to official notification. Last year, the government had set a target of reaching 10 per cent ethanol-blending in petrol (10 per cent of ethanol mixed with 90 per cent of diesel) by 2022, and 20 per cent doping by 2030. Earlier this year, the target for 20 per cent blending was brought forward to 2025. And now, it has been further advanced to April 2023. "The Central Government hereby directs that the oil companies shall sell ethanol-blended petrol with a percentage of ethanol up to 20 per cent as per the Bureau of Indian Standards specifications, in the whole of the States and union territories," the Oil Ministry said in a Gazette notification. "This Notification shall come into force with effect from the 1st April 2023". India is the world's third-biggest oil importer, relying on foreign suppliers to meet over 85 per cent of its demand. In the current ethanol supply year, which started in October, India plans to have 10 per cent ethanol-blending with gasoline. As much as 4 billion litres of ethanol will be needed for achieving a 10 per cent mixing ratio. For 20 per cent by 2023, 10 billion (1,000 crore) litres will be needed. The sugar industry will divert 6 million tonnes of surplus sugar to produce 7 billion litres of the ethanol needed, while the remaining ethanol will be produced from excess grain.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-brings-forward-target-of-20-ethanol-blending-in-petrol-to-2023-993094.html
02-06-2021||National||BJP leader shot dead by militants in Kashmir||A BJP leader was shot dead by unidentified militants and a lady was wounded in an incident in the volatile Tral area of south Kashmir's Pulwama district on Wednesday evening.  A police official said unidentified militants shot at Rakesh Pandit, a BJP leader late in the evening. He was shifted to a nearby hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead, the official said.  The official said that Pandit was shot at the house of his neighbour Mushtaq Ahmad and in the incident, Ahmad's daughter identified as Asifa was also injured. She has been shifted to a hospital, where her condition is stated to be critical. The BJP councillor had two personal security officers (PSOs) to protect him. However, at the time of the attack his PSOs were not accompanying him, reports said.  Soon after the incident, security forces cordoned off the area to nab the attackers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-leader-shot-dead-by-militants-in-kashmir-993096.html
02-06-2021||National Politics||Mallikarjun Kharge dissociates himself from process of selection of NHRC chairperson, members||Senior Congress leader and Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi dissociating himself from the process of selection of the new chairperson and members of the National Human Rights Commission. During the meeting of the Appointments Committee for the appointment to the post of chairperson and members of the National Human Rights Commission held on Monday evening at the prime minister's residence here, Kharge placed on record his views on the committee's decision to recommend a panel of names for the selection to the post of chairperson and members of the NHRC. "I had reiterated in today's meeting my concern over the rise in the cases of atrocities on Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and minorities and proposed that at least one person belonging to the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Minorities be recommended for appointment either to the post of Chairperson under Section 3(2)(a) or a member under Section 3(2)(c)or a member under Section 3(2)(d) to the National Human Rights Commission from amongst the existing list of candidates. "I also pointed out that appointment of the Chairperson or a member to the NHRC cannot simply be ignored on the pretext that there is no specific provision to this effect in the Protection of Human Rights Act, 1993 and amendments made. Obviously there cannot be any bar to appoint either Chairperson or member to the NHRC on this ground," he said in his letter. Alternatively, the Congress leader proposed that if this is not feasible, the meeting may be postponed for a week and reconvened bringing before the Selection Committee the names of some candidates from Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and minorities so that one of these could be recommended for the appointment either for the post of chairperson or member of the NHRC. "Since the Committee did not accept any of my proposals, I express my disagreement with the recommendations made by the Committee in regard to appointments to the posts of Chairperson and Members of NHRC," Kharge said in his letter to the prime minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mallikarjun-kharge-dissociates-himself-from-process-of-selection-of-nhrc-chairperson-members-992767.html
02-06-2021||National Politics||Still recovering, Tharoor bats for free, universal vaccination||After testing positive for Covid-19 on April 21, Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, who was hospitalised and recovered, tweeted a video on Wednesday in which he said that he was still suffering from the complications of a long Covid-19 infection. He said he wondered how the government could possibly meet its target of vaccinating everyone by the end of 2021. "It is unacceptable that this government should be demanding that states, private hospitals and others compete in some sort of a market free for all to buy vaccines at different prices, extortionate prices in some cases when the Central government had an arrangement to buy vaccines at affordable prices and give them to the public for free," Tharoor said. "Let us have a universal and free vaccination policy to save our nation from Covid," he said. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/still-recovering-tharoor-bats-for-free-universal-vaccination-992801.html
02-06-2021||National Politics||Yogi Adityanath to lead BJP in next year's Uttar Pradesh assembly polls||Notwithstanding criticism over his alleged 'mismanagement' in tackling the Covid-19 pandemic and resentment within the party over his style of functioning, the BJP is likely to go into the next year's assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh under the leadership of chief minister Yogi Adityanath. The Assembly election is scheduled to be held in UP in March next year. According to the sources in the BJP here, the saffron party national general secretary (organisation) B L Santhosh, who concluded his two-day visit to the state on Tuesday, has indicated to the senior party leaders and ministers, who had met him, during their discussions that there will be no change in the state leadership. Sources said that some of the ministers and senior party leaders had conveyed to Santhosh that there could be a negative fallout of the Covid 'mismanagement' for the party in the next year's assembly polls and had also complained their resentment over his (Adityanath) style of functioning but were told that there was not much time left for the polls and that a change at this juncture could send a wrong message to the people. "It will amount to admitting that the state government failed to properly tackle the pandemic," a senior UP BJP leader told DH here on Wednesday. In fact Santhosh and other senior BJP leaders, after the conclusion of their visit, heaped praise on Adityanath for what they claimed effectively controlling the situation through better management. "The way the CM of a state with more than 20 crore population (UP) controlled the situation in five weeks was not seen in the CM of a state with 1.5 crore population (Delhi).....the UP government has started preparation to tackle the third wave of Covid-19," Santhosh said in a tweet. Sources, however, said that there could be some changes in the organisational level and some new faces might also be inducted in the ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/yogi-adityanath-to-lead-bjp-in-next-years-uttar-pradesh-assembly-polls-992976.html
02-06-2021||National Politics||Alapan Bandyopadhyay's conduct of skipping meeting with PM has come under question: Govt sources||The conduct of former West Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay of skipping a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on May 28 has come under question, government sources said Wednesday, maintaining that his act has made a severe dent to IAS as he seemed to have been working as personal staff of the chief minister. Did Bandyopadhyay subject himself to "whims" of the West Bengal chief minister so his post-retirement could be "handsomely rewarding", the sources asked. They said the chief secretary cannot be working like personal staff of the chief minister. Bandyopadhyay's conduct on a day when the prime minister was in the state for a review meeting to ascertain damages post Cyclone Yaas has come under question. The sources said the country's first home minister Sardar Patel while addressing the first batch of the IAS officers had referred them as the "steel frame of India". They said Patel did not invent this phraseology only to inspire the young officers but behind this was multitude of connotations – India was a multicultural nation where rulers of states "would have their own interests and egos, at times inflated". If the Centre's representatives boycotted the meetings called by the chief secretary after natural calamities, would it not amount to institutional breakdown in a federal structure, they said. "Would that not lead to anarchy? Alapan Bandyopadhyay's conduct on May 28 has made a severe dent to IAS, the supposed 'steel frame' of India as devised by Sardar Patel," a source said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/alapan-bandyopadhyays-conduct-of-skipping-meeting-with-pm-has-come-under-question-govt-sources-993054.html
02-06-2021||North and Central||Irrational and indiscriminate arrests are gross violation of human rights: Allahabad HC||Irrational and indiscriminate arrests are a gross violation of human rights, the Allahabad High Court has said, accepting an anticipatory bail plea in a corruption case. The courts have repeatedly held that arrest should be the last option for the police and it should be restricted to those exceptional cases where arresting the accused is imperative or his custodial interrogation is required. Justice Siddharth made the observations on May 28 while hearing an anticipatory bail application filed by Jugendra Singh, a police constable. There was an allegation against the applicant that he was taking money from the passing trucks and an FIR was lodged against him under section 7/13 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988.  Counsel for the applicant submitted that there is no forensic report and no recovery has been made from the applicant. A probe into the matter is still underway and the applicant has definite apprehension that he may be arrested by the police any time, the counsel added. "After the lodging of an FIR, the arrest can be made by the police at will. There is no definite period fixed for the police to arrest an accused against whom an FIR has been lodged. Irrational and indiscriminate arrests are gross violations of human rights," the court observed, allowing anticipatory bail plea of the applicant. "In the event of arrest, the applicant shall be released on anticipatory bail till cognizance is taken by the court on the police report, if any, under section 173 (2) CrPC before the competent court on furnishing a personal bond of Rs 50,000/- with two sureties each in the like amount to the satisfaction of the Station House Officer of the police station/court concerned," it said.  The high court has put some conditions on the applicant that he shall make himself available for interrogation by the police officer as and when required. The applicant shall not directly or indirectly, make any inducement, threat or promise to any person acquainted with the facts of the case to dissuade from disclosing such facts to the court or to any police officer, it said. The court said the applicant shall not leave India without the previous permission of the court and if he has a passport, the same shall be deposited by him before the SSP/SP concerned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/irrational-and-indiscriminate-arrests-are-gross-violation-of-human-rights-allahabad-hc-992766.html
02-06-2021||North and Central||3 kids among 8 dead after LPG cylinder explodes in Uttar Pradesh||Eight people, including three children, have been killed when a double-storey house in Tikri village here collapsed after an LPG cylinder explosion, police said on Wednesday. Seven people have been grievously injured in the Tuesday night incident and they have been rushed to Lucknow for better treatment, officials said. "The LPG cylinder exploded in the house of one Nurul Hasan around 10 pm on Tuesday which led to the double-storey house to collapse. Eight people died in the incident while seven others were seriously injured," District Magistrate Markandey Shahi said. The deceased have been identified as Nisar Ahmad (35), Rubina Bano (32), Shamshad (28), Sairunisha (35), Shahbaz (14), Noori Saba (12), Meraj (11) and Mohammad Shoeab (2). Superintendent of Police, Santosh Kumar Mishra said personnel of the force immediately reached the spot after receiving information of the incident on its helpline. "Forensic teams are collecting samples from the site and a probe has been ordered into the incident." Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath condoled the deaths and directed officials to provide good treatment to the injured. He asked the district magistrate to probe the cause of the incident and submit the report to the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-kids-among-8-dead-after-lpg-cylinder-explodes-in-uttar-pradesh-992811.html
02-06-2021||North and Central||Govt broadens rules that bar retired officials from publishing sensitive information||Officials who had worked in intelligence and security-related organisations have been barred from publishing sensitive information with the Government amending the rules in this regard, emphasising that they cannot share any material on “domain of the organisation” or its personnel. The Central Civil Services (Pension) Amendment Rules 2021, notified on Tuesday, also said prior clearance from the head of the organisation should be taken for any publication after retirement. The head of the organisation will have the authority to decide as to whether the proposed material for publication is sensitive or non-sensitive, the new order said. All employees would have to give an undertaking to the head of the organisation that they would not publish such information failing which pension can be “withheld or withdrawn”, the amendment states. The Central Civil Services (Pension) Amendment Rules 2007, notified in March 2008, had said officials were barred from publishing any sensitive information, "the disclosure of which would prejudicially affect the sovereignty and integrity of India”. The new amended rule reads, “No government servant, who, having worked in any intelligence or security-related organization…shall, without prior clearance from the head of the organisation, make any publication after retirement, of any material relating to and including domain of the organisation, including any reference or information about any personnel and his designation, and expertise or knowledge gained by virtue of working in that organization”. It also said "sensitive information, the disclosure of which would prejudicially affect the sovereignty and integrity of India, the security, strategic, scientific or economic interests of the State, or relation with a foreign State or which would lead to incitement of an offence" will not be published. As the amended rules became a talking point, sources in the Department of Personnel and Training issued a clarification on Wednesday saying an "erroneous and misleading narrative" is sought to be created with regard to the rules, which were designed to remove any confusion regarding existing restrictions on the subject. Emphasising that the intention is always to safeguard national interest, it said, "in the past, a few intelligence and government officials, who have worked in Intelligence or Security-related organisations, have publicly expressed themselves, by means of writing or speaking, revealing specific knowledge and sensitive information gained by virtue of having worked in that organisation." "In order to bring clarity, these rules were issued. By no means do these rules deny any such former official from expressing his/her views. In fact, it makes it easier for them to do so, given that they can now contact the Head of their former employer organisation and seek clarification on whether the proposed material is sensitive or non-sensitive," it added. The 2007 rules did not mention the domain of the organisation and reference to any personnel. It had barred the employees from publishing material including “sensitive information, the disclosure of which would prejudicially affect the sovereignty and integrity of India, the security, strategic, scientific or economic interests of the state, or relation with a foreign state or which would lead to incitement of an offence” after their retirement. The new rules apply to employees belonging to the Intelligence Bureau, Research and Analysis Wing, Directorate of Revenue Intelligence, Central Economic Intelligence Bureau, Directorate of Enforcement, Aviation Research Centre, Border Security Force, Central Reserve Police Force, National Security Guards, Central Industrial Security Force, Indo-Tibetan Border Police, Narcotics Control Bureau, Special Frontier Force, Special Protection Group and Financial Intelligence Unit among others. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/govt-broadens-rules-that-bar-retired-officials-from-publishing-sensitive-information-992859.html
02-06-2021||North and Central||Pakistan soldiers fire at earthmover along international border in Jammu||Pakistani Rangers fired at an earth-mover machine engaged in cleaning bushes along the International Border (IB) here on Wednesday in what could be the second ceasefire violation in nearly four months, official sources said. The Border Security Force (BSF), which is guarding the IB, neither confirmed nor denied the incident. Sources said Pakistani Rangers fired a few rounds upon noticing the bullet-proof JCB machine clearing the bushes in Arnia sector's Vikram post area in the outskirts of Jammu around 8.15 am. There was no report of any casualty. The BSF also fired a few rounds in retaliation, they said, adding the situation has returned to normal and there is calm along the IB. On May 2, Pakistani Rangers violated the ceasefire by opening fire along the IB in Ramgarh sector of Samba district which was the first ceasefire violation by Pakistan after the two countries signed a fresh agreement to maintain calm along the border on February 25 this year. Last month, BSF shot dead two Pakistani intruders who tried to sneak into this side in Samba sector after ignoring repeated warnings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-soldiers-fire-at-earthmover-along-international-border-in-jammu-992861.html
02-06-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 death tally goes up to 190 in Ladakh, 88 fresh cases reported in Leh||The number of active cases in Ladakh stand at 1,581 which includes 1,386 cases in Leh district and 213 cases in Kargil district, they said. While 136 people died because of coronavirus in Leh, 54 died in Kargil. Of the new cases reported in the past 24 hours, the officials said 71 were detected in Leh and 17 in Kargil. They said a total of 120 patients were also discharged after successful treatment, taking the number of those cured to 16,979, which account for over 90 per cent of the total cases. Out of the total patients cured, 98 patients were discharged in Leh and 22 in Kargil. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-death-tally-goes-up-to-190-in-ladakh-88-fresh-cases-reported-in-leh-992887.html
02-06-2021||North and Central||Every Indian has right to free vaccine, says Rajasthan CM Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday said free universal vaccination is the right of every Indian. "All previous central governments have been taking this programme forward. Now when the nation is grappling with an unprecedented health crisis, to deny vaccination to all is totally unjust," Gehlot tweeted. "Let us all raise our voices against this inefficiency and insensitivity of the NDA and demand Free Universal Vaccination," he said in support of the Congress party's online campaign for free anti-Covid jabs for all.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/every-indian-has-right-to-free-vaccine-says-rajasthan-cm-gehlot-992891.html
02-06-2021||North and Central||Gold falls Rs 116 per 10 gram; silver tumbles Rs 1,291||Gold slipped by Rs 116 to Rs 48,772 per 10 grams in the national capital on Wednesday in line with a fall in global precious metal prices, according to HDFC Securities. In the previous trade, it had closed at Rs 48,888 per 10 grams. Silver also tumbled Rs 1,291 to Rs 70,836 per kg, from Rs 72,127 per kg in the previous trade. In the international market, gold was trading lower at $1,898 per ounce and silver was flat at $27.74 per ounce. "Gold prices traded weak with spot gold prices at COMEX (New York-based commodities exchange) trading at $1,898 per ounce on Wednesday," said HDFC Securities Senior Analyst (Commodities) Tapan Patel||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gold-falls-rs-116-per-10-gram-silver-tumbles-rs-1291-992914.html
02-06-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh government cancels class 12 state board exam amid Covid-19 pandemic||The Madhya Pradesh government on Wednesday decided to cancel the Class 12 state board exam considering the safety of students amid the continuing Covid-19 pandemic, a day after the Centre decided against holding the class 12 exam for the CBSE board. The state government had already cancelled the state board exam for students of Class 10. "The class 12 board exams (organised by the MP Board of Secondary Education) for the year 2020-21 will not be held this year. The life of students is precious for us. We can take care of their career later," Chouhan said in a video statement posted on Twitter after holding a meeting with officials. Chouhan said it was not appropriate to put a mental burden of examination on children amid the coronavirus pandemic. He said the option to take the examination will be available for interested students after the pandemic. "This option will be open for those students who want to appear in exams in a bid to improve their scores. After the end of the pandemic, such students can appear in the exam," Chouhan said. The chief minister said a group of ministers has been constituted to decide how class 12 students can be evaluated. Chouhan said the state government had already cancelled the Class 10 exam of the state board. "The results of the Class 10 students of the state board will be declared based on an internal valuation," he said. On Tuesday, the Central government decided to cancel the CBSE Class 12 board exams at a high-level meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi amid the continuing Covid-19 pandemic in the country. As of Tuesday, the tally of Covid-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh stood at 7,81,108 and the overall death toll was 8,112, the state health department said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-government-cancels-class-12-state-board-exam-amid-covid-19-pandemic-992954.html
02-06-2021||North and Central||Central Vista project: Plea filed in SC against Delhi HC's refusal to halt construction||A petition has been filed in the Supreme Court against Delhi High Court's judgment, which declined to halt construction of Central Vista Redevelopment project during the Covid-19 pandemic. Now, an SC petition by Pradeep Kumar Yadav has contended that the high court was not justified in holding that the PIL was motivated and not a genuine public cause "by drawing presumption and assumption in the absence of proved material facts and evidence". Yadav was not a party to the proceedings in Delhi High Court.   He contended that the high court failed to appreciate that construction work involving huge numbers of innocent workers during the peak Covid-19 pandemic period was a serious public health concern. "The High Court was also not justified in holding that the Central Vista Avenue Redevelopment project is essential activities during the pandemic crisis, especially when the whole country had stopped essential functioning during the lockdown period," his plea contended. The plea further claimed that the high court was not justified in holding that the petition was filed with a motivation to stall construction activities of Central Vista Avenue redevelopment project, when the pleadings and prayer of the petitioners were clearly to suspend activity only during the peak lockdown period. The top court in January gave its nod to the proposed project, which envisaged a new triangular Parliament building, with seating capacity for 900 to 1,200 MPs. It is proposed to be constructed by August 2022 when the country will be celebrating its 75th Independence Day. The project also included refurbishment of North Block, South Block, construction of new offices for central government, i e, common Central Secretariat, central conference facilities etc.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/central-vista-project-plea-filed-in-sc-against-delhi-hcs-refusal-to-halt-construction-992963.html
02-06-2021||North and Central||SC seeks to know 'thinking' behind Covid-19 vaccine policy, finds it 'arbitrary, irrational'||The Supreme Court has directed the Centre to inform on its "thinking" behind the current vaccination policy, saying replacement of free jabs with paid inoculation by the states and private hospitals for people in the age group of 18-44 years was prima facie arbitrary and irrational. A bench presided over by Justice D Y Chandrachud also asked the Centre to provide data on the percentage of population vaccinated so far (with single dose and both doses), both in rural and urban areas, along with documents reflecting its thinking in connection with the vaccination policy. The data should include the percentage of rural population as well as urban population vaccinated so far, the court ordered. The bench, also comprising L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat, said: “UoI (Union of India) shall also ensure that copies of all the relevant documents and file notings reflecting its thinking and culminating in the vaccination policy are also annexed on the vaccination policy." It gave two weeks' time to the Centre to file an affidavit with file notings. The top court released its detailed order on the hearing conducted in a Suo Motu matter on May 31. The court also said the Centre should bring on record an outline for how and when it seeks to vaccinate the remaining population. The bench also sought complete data on the central government’s purchase history of all the Covid-19 vaccines till date (Covaxin, Covishield and Sputnik V). "The data should clarify: (a) the dates of all procurement orders placed by the Central Government for all three vaccines; (b) the quantity of vaccines ordered as on each date; and (c) the projected date of supply," the court said.   The Centre, in its May 9 affidavit, said every state/UT government will provide vaccination free of cost to its population. “It is important that individual state/UT governments confirm/deny this position before this court. Further, if they have decided to vaccinate their population for free then, as a matter of principle, it is important that this policy is annexed to their affidavit, so that the population within their territories can be assured of their right to be vaccinated for free at a state vaccination centre," the bench said.    The top court directed each of the state/UT governments to also file an affidavit within two weeks, clarifying their position and put on record their individual policies. The SC asked the Centre to submit update on steps taken to ensure drug availability for mucormycosis. The matter has been posted for further hearing on June 30.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-seeks-to-know-thinking-behind-covid-19-vaccine-policy-finds-it-arbitrary-irrational-992975.html
02-06-2021||North and Central||Punjab Cabinet approves creation of Malerkotla as 23rd district||The Punjab Cabinet on Wednesday gave formal approval to the creation of Malerkotla as the state's 23rd district. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had announced the creation of a new district of Malerkotla, carving the state's Muslim-majority town from Sangrur district, on the occasion of Eid-ul-Fitr on May 14. The cabinet meeting, chaired by Singh, was held here on Wednesday. The cabinet also gave its go-ahead for upgrading Amargarh, which was part of the Malerkotla sub-division, as sub-division or tehsil. Malerkotla district would now consist of three sub-divisions -- Malerkotla, Ahmedgarh and Amargarh, according to an official statement. A total of 192 villages will be included in Malerkotla district. The cabinet authorised the chief minister to approve the creation of new posts for offices of 12 departments which include police, rural development and panchayats, social justice and minorities, agriculture and farmer welfare, social security and women and child development, health, education (primary and secondary).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-cabinet-approves-creation-of-malerkotla-as-23rd-district-992985.html
02-06-2021||North and Central||Online court hearing disrupted as unknown persons sing Juhi Chawla movie songs||The Delhi High Court's online hearing on the 5G wireless network on a plea by film actress-turned-environmentalist Juhi Chawla, got disrupted thrice on Wednesday as an unknown person started singing one song after another of her movies. As soon as the actor joined the hearing online, someone started singing Ghoonghat ki aad se Dilbar ka, a popular song of the actor's 1993 movie Hum Hain Rahi Pyar Ke. The court was hearing a petition filed by Chawla against the installation of a 5G network citing health hazards. Justice J R Midha said, "Please mute", while advocate Deepak Khosla, appearing for Juhi Chawla, said, "I hope this is not being dropped by some respondent." Despite the judge's direction, in the second instance, someone again sang-- Lal Lal hoton pe Gori kiska naam hai-- only to be removed from the hearing. But this did not stop here, again someone sang- Meri Banno ki ayegi ki baarat. Upset over the disruption, the court issued a contempt notice. The court also asked its IT Department to identify the person and convey it to Delhi Police for necessary action. According to court officials, the interruptions began right from the beginning of the hearing when some visitor persistently kept asking "where is Juhi ma'am. I can't see Juhi ma'am." Interestingly, Chawla herself had tweeted about the hearing in the matter inviting people to join and also provided the web link to the virtual hearing. The Delhi High Court termed Juhi Chawla petition as “defective” and said it was filed for media publicity. The court which reserved order after hearing of various arguments, also questioned Chawla for filing the suit without giving any representation to the government on her concerns related to the technology. Justice J R Midha said the plaintiffs, Chawla and two others, were required to first approach the government. The court also asked as to why as many as 33 parties have been added to the plaint and said it is not permitted under the law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/online-court-hearing-disrupted-as-unknown-persons-sing-juhi-chawla-movie-songs-992987.html
02-06-2021||North and Central||Why are kids given this much homework? 6-year-old J&K girl asks PM Modi in viral video||A 71-second video addressed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi by six-year-old Mahiru Irfan, seeking a cap on duration of online classes, has propelled the girl from Kashmir to overnight media stardom as camera crews made a beeline at her residence for a soundbyte from her. Mahiru and her family are relishing the media attention after she became an internet sensation on Monday with her video.  Asked why she posted the video message to the prime minister, she said there was too much classwork happening online due to the Covid-19 pandemic. "There should be some time for the kids to play as well. There are classes and after that homework," she told reporters.  In the one-minute-and-eleven-second video posted on Twitter, the girl appeals to Modi to ease the burden of homework on schoolchildren. The video, which went viral on social media and has so far garnered nearly 3.3 lakh views and nearly 19,000 thousand likes, caught the attention of Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha, who directed the School Education Department to come out with a policy in 48 hours to ease the burden of homework on the school students.  "Assalamualaikum Modi sahib! My classes are from 10 am till 2 pm...This much homework is for students of class 6, 7, 10. Why are kids given this much homework Modi sahab?" she says in the video. The video moved Sinha, who described it as a "very adorable complaint". The school education department, which had been mulling over the ill effects of long online classes, came out with fresh guidelines limiting daily online classes to half-an-hour for pre-primary students and 90 minutes for primary and middle ones. The guidelines came within 24 hours of Sinha's directions to the school education department to come out with a policy in 48 hours after the video went viral on social media. "The school education department has decided to limit daily online classes for a maximum one-and-a-half hour for class 1 to 8, spread across two sessions. For class 9 to 12 online synchronous learning will not be more than 3 hours," the LG wrote on his official Twitter handle.  He said in the case of the pre-primary students, the interaction with their parents on a given day shall be only of half-an-hour and also asked teachers to avoid assigning homework to students up to class five. "Concerned authorities to ensure the strict implementation. Homework up to class 5 should be avoided. Authorities and schools to plan a joyful learning experience engaging parents as well," he said in another tweet. Sinha said the children need more time to play and interact with parents, which is "the biggest learning experience a child can have".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/why-are-kids-given-this-much-homework-6-year-old-jk-girl-asks-pm-modi-in-viral-video-992995.html
02-06-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan man kills wife, drags her body for several metres on street||A man hacked his wife to death and dragged her body for several metres on the street here, police said on Wednesday, adding that their infant son, who was injured in the attack, died at a hospital later. The accused, Sunil Valmiki (40) alias Pintu, went absconding after the incident that took place on Tuesday night in Bhatapura area of Rampura, they said. On Tuesday afternoon, he picked his wife, Seema (35), and their nine-month-old son, Avinash, from her brother’s house. Their elder son, aged nine years, stayed back with his uncle and grandmother. After an argument in the evening, the accused attacked Seema with an axe, Deputy Superintendent of Police and Circle Officer Ram Kalyan said, adding the woman died on the spot. The accused then dragged her body for 70 to 80 metres on the street, triggering panic among the people, the DSP said. Leaving the body on the street, he moved towards Rampura police station apparently to confess to the crime but ran away, Station House Officer Hansraj Meena said. Avinash was injured in the incident and died during treatment at a hospital on Wednesday morning, police said. However, it was not clear how the infant suffered injuries, they added. The bodies of the woman and the child were sent for postmortem. The man, a daily wager, was booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and efforts were on to nab him, police said. Seema and Sunil got married around 15 years ago and had two sons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-man-kills-wife-drags-her-body-for-several-metres-on-street-993012.html
02-06-2021||North and Central||Time to plan about how students will be assessed in 2022: Manish Sisodia||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia Wednesday said it is time the government starts planning about how class 10 and 12 students will be assessed in March 2022 considering another academic session could be affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. His remarks came a day after the Centre announced cancellation of class 12 board exams by CBSE in view of the pandemic situation. The ICSE also cancelled it class 12 board examinations. "It is time to move on to next year. We cannot deny that another academic session could be Covid-19 affected and we need to plan before it's too late once again," Sisodia told PTI in an interview. He stressed on the need to be ready with a "foolproof formula" for next year to avoid scope for any "knee jerk decision". "Now is the right time. A foolproof plan should be ready about how will the assessment be done in March 2022, and according to it, the current session should be planned and students should be prepared. Internals, online and semi online activities should be as per that plan rather than preparing students differently and then saying we will not pass them without taking exams. "I feel if we do not start now, it will be again too late for next year and will then lead to an unprepared and knee jerk decision," he added.  Sisodia, who is also Delhi's Education Minister, said his team is working on a draft plan in this regard and he will share the recommendations with the CBSE and the Centre. "A team is working on a plan on how academic session can be conducted for board and non-board classes and how can the assessment be done. Once we are done with the draft plan, I will share the recommendations with CBSE and the Centre," he added. Sisodia, who had earlier told the Ministry of Education that going ahead with exams before vaccinating the students will be a disaster, said there can still be no second thought about it. "Exams or no exams, there cannot be a second thought about need to vaccinating students. The stocks are so low that we are not able to vaccinate people within age group of 18-44. All of this has to be done soon, the trials for vaccines for children and getting Pfizer vaccine for them, all of this has to be done on priority," he said. The Centre on Tuesday decided to cancel the CBSE class 12 board exams amid the continuing Covid-19 pandemic across the country with Prime Minister Narendra Modi asserting that the decision has been taken in the interest of students and the anxiety among students, parents and teachers must be put to an end. Sisodia also reiterated that the CBSE should announce its policy for evaluating students of class 12 at the earliest. "They should come up with an unbiased and objective criteria at the earliest so students can start looking forward to undergraduate admissions," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/time-to-plan-about-how-students-will-be-assessed-in-2022-manish-sisodia-993016.html
02-06-2021||North and Central||Amid criticism from Opposition, Centre to make portal for Central Vista||After facing criticism from Opposition political parties, the Centre has decided to make an exclusive web portal on the Central Vista redevelopment project. The government plans to put all information related to the project in the public domain to maintain transperancy in its execution, said an official in the Ministry of Housing and Urban Development. With the project facing criticism, the NDA government is in the view that by putting all details in the public domain, it will be able to clear all doubts about the project, said the official. Union Hardeep Puri on Tuesday attacked Opposition political parties saying that they have been making false narratives about the project. "It is not a vanity project, and this is a project of necessity," Puri asserted while insisting that no heritage buildings will be demolished. The Central Vista redevelopment project involved building a new Parliament building, offices to Members of Parliament, re-modelling of Central Vista Avenue (Rajpath), constructing new residences for the vice president and the prime minister, inter-connected common secretariat comprising 10 new buildings, and demolishing some buildings on either side of the Rajpath. At present only two projects -- the new Parliament building and Central Vista Avenue -- are under construction. The Centre had planned to complete the entire Central Vista project, entailing an expenditure of Rs 23,000 crore by 2024 but the deadline had already been extended to 2026. Opposition parties have been criticising the continuation of the Central Vista project amidst Covid-19 pandemic and demanding the government to scrap the project and utilise the money to improve health infrastructure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amid-criticism-from-opposition-centre-to-make-portal-for-central-vista-993022.html
02-06-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand intermediate board exams cancelled due to Covid-19||Uttarakhand intermediate board examinations were cancelled on Wednesday in view of the prevailing Covid situation in the state. Making the announcement here, state Education Minister Arvind Pandey said the decision has been taken in the interest of students, teachers and guardians after consulting the chief minister in view of the Covid-19 situation. Pandey also welcomed cancellation of the CBSE 12th board examinations by the Centre. A decision on the policy to be adopted for the promotion of students will also be taken soon, he said. The government on Tuesday decided to cancel the CBSE Class 12 board exams amid the continuing Covid-19 pandemic across the country with Prime Minister Narendra Modi asserting that the decision has been taken in the interest of students and the anxiety among students, parents and teachers must be put to an end. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Modi in which it was decided that the CBSE will take steps to compile the results of Class 12 students as per a well-defined objective criteria in a time-bound manner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-intermediate-board-exams-cancelled-due-to-covid-19-993024.html
02-06-2021||North and Central||‘Sidhu missing’ posters surface in Amritsar, promise Rs 50,000 reward to trace him||Street walls of the Amritsar East assembly constituency here on Wednesday appeared plastered overnight with a large number of posters, proclaiming that area MLA Navjot Sidhu has gone “missing”. The posters also announced a reward of Rs 50,000 to anyone who traces the legislator and brings him back to the constituency. The posters were pasted by an NGO, 'Dhan Dhan Baba Deep Singh Ji' stating, “Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu is missing”. NGO representative Anil Kumar Vishist Bunty alleged that Sidhu had been inaccessible to the residents of the Amritsar East assembly constituency. He also alleged a lack of development of the area and claimed that heaps of garbage and stranded water on the roads could be seen anywhere in this assembly segment. Even his wife Navjot Kaur Sidhu was also not accessible, he further alleged. Bunty accused the Sidhu couple of doing nothing for the development of the constituency. It was not the first time that the “Sidhu missing” posters have surfaced in Amritsar. “Sidhu missing” posters had earlier surfaced ten years back when he was a BJP MP. At that time, posters were pasted by the Congress municipal councillor Raman Bakshi who is presently senior Deputy Mayor of Amritsar Municipal Corporation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sidhu-missing-posters-surface-in-amritsar-promise-rs-50000-reward-to-trace-him-993039.html
02-06-2021||Oasis||Anonymous angels||When the famous Chilean poet and Nobel laureate, Pablo Neruda, was a child, he received a gift from a stranger whose face he did not see. Looking back on the incident long after, he wrote: "To feel the love of people whom we love is a fire that feeds our life, but to feel the affection that comes from those we do not know... Who are watching over our dangers and weaknesses, that is something greater and more beautiful because it widens the boundaries of our being and unites all living things." Giving secretly of one’s resources, avoiding acclaim has been extolled by all faiths, through the ages. A Jewish sacred text tells the story of a righteous man who performed charitable deeds surreptitiously. He was in the habit of quietly slipping money under his neighbour’s door and, on one occasion, he was almost caught. Unwilling to reveal his identity, he hid in a huge oven that was still hot from recent use. His feet were burned, but he chose discomfort over disclosure. Unknown benefactors are among us today. As we view the impersonal online funerals, to which we have grown accustomed, we should not overlook their generosity. Anyone succumbing to Covid is unceremoniously carted away, and his or her last rites are performed in indecorous haste. Numbers are restricted and often, for reasons of age or infirmity, even family and friends cannot be in attendance. Shining through the gloom are incredible individuals who ensure that the deceased get a dignified departure. These valiant volunteers may be seen at crematoria and cemeteries, manoeuvring wheeled biers and staggering under the weight of caskets. Shrouded in shapeless protective paraphernalia, they perform their grim tasks with compassion and commitment. We may never get to know these remarkable people, especially since they are completely concealed. Besides, they seek no recognition. This does not mean that we should take them for granted. Let us honour, with gratitude, our anonymous angels.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/anonymous-angels-992854.html
02-06-2021||Opinion||Vaccination: Charity or Right?||A private hospital in Pune run by a charitable trust has announced that it will be administering a limited number of Covid vaccines every day to ‘’underprivileged’’ individuals free of charge. The information issued by the hospital regarding the procedure to avail this facility explicitly mentions this as a ‘’charity vaccine’’, and intended beneficiaries are asked to specify it as such. Taking an instrumental view, one may not find fault with such an initiative as it would mean a few individuals getting vaccinated in time, who otherwise would not have been able to get inoculated due to the interlinked factors of availability, accessibility and affordability of vaccines. If one accepts the differentiated (and hence discriminatory) vaccination policy of the Union government as either a desirable one or a fait accompli, then such instrumental reason would seem almost impeccable. Almost, because, even instrumentally speaking, such scattered and piecemeal vaccination in the time of pandemic could prove to be ineffective in controlling the pandemic. However, proceeding from the normative commitment to the universal and fundamental right to life, reducing an essential life-saving service such as vaccination to an act of charity is deeply problematic at many levels. Furthermore, it also helps us to understand the compatibility/complementarity of such charitable initiatives with a ‘liberalized free-market oriented’ vaccination policy (or public policy in general) as both are antithetical to the ideal of universal rights. Charity and profit go hand in hand The act of ‘donating’ for vaccines as a charity to ‘underprivileged’ individuals entails that the intended beneficiaries are implicitly not considered equal right-bearing citizens. Under such a scheme of things if one is unable to be the consumer who can purchase the commercial product, i.e. vaccine at its market price, then they will have to become the client of the charitable patron and depend on their dole or donation. On the one hand, the said hospital will sell the vaccine at the so-called market rate to earn profits and on the other hand, indulge in a piecemeal act of charity. More often than not it would be a charity of convenience where such profit-earning entities would appeal to the public to donate and support. If indeed such an initiative is driven by the public-spirited urge to vaccinate, then why not the entire stock of available vaccines with the hospital is being brought under the purview of the ‘charity vaccine scheme’? In other words, why not universalize charity? It would be a fallacy. Such universalisation would undermine the primacy of profit, whereas, charity or philanthropy not only coexist but rather complement the profit motive or commercial interest. Hence, universalization is conceivable only if the vaccine is considered as a public good – neither a commercial product nor a charitable dole – to be availed as a right by every citizen. Right to life And indeed, it has to be considered as a fundamental right as the right to life cannot be devoid of the right to health and anything that protects human life and health has to be made available universally to every human being. While agreeing in principle with this reasoning, one can still argue pragmatically that what is the harm if those who can afford are asked to pay for the vaccine. It should be borne in mind that a differentiated policy of vaccination would, by design, force a section of the society to depend on charity as such policy would thwart the goal of universalization. Forcing individuals from a section of society to rely on charity is tantamount to relegating them to sub-citizens, if not subhuman level, devoid of dignity. Substantive reading of the right to life suggests that it is not about mere survival, but a life of dignity and hence it demands the universalization of vaccination is treated as a fundamental right. What about dignity? That the logic or language of rights and dignity doesn’t become a part of common sense in general and in the policy debates around vaccination, in particular, is partly due to the privileging of the virtue of ‘Daan’ in our society, which comes with its religious underpinnings. It is also partly due to the hegemony of the ideas of the sacrosanctity of profit, private entrepreneurship and the associated paraphernalia of the ideas of desert and luck. However, these ideas not only sit well with the virtue of daan but in fact, feed off each other. The act of daan from which one accrues Punya, sacred merit, is so ingrained in our society that the immediate tendency is to uncritically celebrate charitable philanthropic initiatives and worse still to consider them as a substitute or an alternative to the state-led public action. Reinforcement of the hierarchical patron-client relationships with feudal overtones is thus underplayed and one is so absorbed with the sense of satisfaction and self-importance derived through the act of giving, that its demeaning impact on the other person is overlooked. It should be noted here that the land struggle of the landless agricultural labourers, launched under the leadership of Ambedkarite leader Dadasaheb Gaikwad and with significant participation of the communists, in the early 1960s, was consciously framed as a ‘Bhoo-Maang’ satyagraha, as against the ‘Bhoo-Daan’ launched by Vinoba Bhave. A maang, or a demand/claim, is made to the state against a corresponding right and hence the act of making a claim is consistent with the democratic ideal of citizenship. Whereas, privileging daan is antithetical to such an ideal. However, this notion of claim-making citizens and institutionalized rights sits uncomfortably with the ideal of profit as any public action corresponding to the realization of a social-economic right would invariably encroach upon the private commercial domain in some way or the other, either through progressive taxation, or introducing price curbs or even take over through nationalisation. Therefore, it is favourable to the upholders of the private commercial interests that daan, charity and philanthropic initiatives are encouraged so as to secure and legitimize the persistence of profit-making and stave off any real or perceived threat to it. Promoters of such a view would have private vaccine producers and private hospitals keep making a profit and at the same time also keep a façade of charity and philanthropy. They would have the abdication of responsibility by the state go unquestioned while celebrating acts of voluntarism and individual efforts. Can this profit-philanthropy nexus be allowed to continue, potentially at the cost of human lives, in the face of the pandemic is a fundamental question that needs to be posed before all sensitive individuals. Consistent critique of this nexus is a must to build the widest possible consensus around the demand for free and universal mass vaccination. (Vidula Sonagra is a freelance writer researcher based in Pune. Nachiket Kulkarni is Assistant Editor, Economic and Political Weekly.) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/vaccination-charity-or-right-992839.html
02-06-2021||Panorama||In Modi-Didi tug of war over Bengal officer, the federalism rope snaps||The dramatic episode concerning West Bengal’s now-retired Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay is a new low in relations between the Centre and the state government. The Centre’s sudden transfer order asking the senior bureaucrat to report for duty in the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) in Delhi set off a series of tit-for-tat actions by the Modi and Mamata governments. It all started with West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee skipping a review meeting held by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Kalaikunda in West Medinipur district on May 28. Citing prior engagements, the Chief Minister, accompanied by then Chief Secretary Bandyopadhyay, walked in and out of the meeting after a very brief interaction with the Prime Minister and handing him a report on the damage caused by Cyclone Yaas. Later, she made it clear that the presence of Suvendu Adhikari, who defeated her in the Assembly elections in Nandigram and is now Leader of the Opposition, in the meeting was “unacceptable” to her. The Centre-state face off intensified when hours later, the Centre shot off a letter to the Bengal government asking it to relieve Bandyopadhyay so that he could join the Union government by 10 am on May 31. This, after the Modi government had just granted Bandyopadhyay a three-month extension in the post of Bengal Chief Secretary following a request from the state government. The Centre persisted with its order despite Mamata’s refusal to release him for central duty. On May 31, a furious Mamata had shot off a five-page letter to the Prime Minister dubbing the transfer order “unilateral...legally untenable, historically unprecedented and wholly unconstitutional.” “The Government of West Bengal cannot release and is not releasing its Chief Secretary at this critical hour, on the basis of our understanding that the earlier order of extension, issued after lawful consultation in accordance with applicable laws, remains operational and valid,” stated Mamata. Within hours of her letter to the PM stating that her government would not release Bandyopadhyay, a 1987-batch Bengal cadre officer, the Centre issued a show cause notice to him as he showed no intent to join duty in Delhi as per its order. The Chief Minister and the Centre locked horns in a legal debate on whether an IAS officer working under a state government can be recalled by the Centre as per the Indian Administrative Service (Cadre) Rules, 1954, without prior consultation with the concerned state government. The Union Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pension in another letter to the former chief secretary argued that as per Section 6(1) of the Indian Administrative Service (Cadre) Rules 1954, in case of a disagreement between the Centre and a state government with regard to the deputation of a cadre officer under the Centre or the state, the Centre’s decision would prevail. However, the Chief Minister latched on to another part of the same section of the Rules which stated that a cadre officer can be deputed for service under the Centre or another state government or a company with the “concurrence of the state governments concerned and the central government,” claiming that the Centre neither held any discussion nor sought any prior consent of the West Bengal government before issuing the transfer order of Bandyopadhyay. The Chief Minister, on the afternoon of May 31, announced that Bandyopadhyay who, prior to the three-month extension granted by the Centre, was scheduled to retire that day, had superannuated and hence the Centre could no longer avail his services. She also said that the state government had appointed Bandyopadhyay as Chief Adviser to the Chief Minister for three years. Her announcement came soon after the Union Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pension wrote another letter to the Chief Secretary asking him to join the services of the Government of India by 10 am on June 1. Former bureaucrats are of the opinion that with his retirement, the Centre no longer has any control over Bandyopadhyay and any attempt to take penal action against him for not joining central duty is also likely to be futile since he retired as the Chief Secretary of the West Bengal government. Speaking to DH, former West Bengal chief secretary Basudeb Banerjee said that the Centre’s transfer order for Bandyopadhyay was itself “bad in law” as it was issued without “concurrence” of the state government, which is against the rules. “He retired as Chief Secretary, West Bengal. So, as an IAS officer, he was under the disciplinary control of the West Bengal government. Disciplinary action can be taken against a government officer till about three years after retirement. But since he was in service of the West Bengal government till the last day before he retired, if any disciplinary action has to be taken, it has to be done by the West Bengal government. The Centre does not have any direct role to play here,” said Banerjee. Retired IAS officer and former CEO of Prasar Bharati Jawahar Sircar said that it was “not proper for the PM” to try to transfer the Chief Secretary of West Bengal on the last day of his service. “The law and Rule 6(1) of the Indian Administrative Service (Cadre) Rules 1954 clearly states that IAS officers of a state can be released for central deputation only with the consent of the state, not otherwise. The Centre can intervene only when a serious conflict arises between the two governments, but that stage has not come,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/in-modi-didi-tug-of-war-over-bengal-officer-the-federalism-rope-snaps-992844.html
02-06-2021||Panorama||How the world ran out of everything||In the story of how the modern world was constructed, Toyota stands out as the mastermind of a monumental advance in industrial efficiency. The Japanese automaker pioneered so-called Just In Time manufacturing, in which parts are delivered to factories right as they are required, minimizing the need to stockpile them. Over the last half-century, this approach has captivated global business in industries far beyond autos. From fashion to food processing to pharmaceuticals, companies have embraced Just In Time to stay nimble, allowing them to adapt to changing market demands while cutting costs. But the tumultuous events of the past year have challenged the merits of paring inventories, while reinvigorating concerns that some industries have gone too far, leaving them vulnerable to disruption. As the pandemic has hampered factory operations and sown chaos in global shipping, many economies around the world have been bedeviled by shortages of a vast range of goods — from electronics to lumber to clothing. In a time of extraordinary upheaval in the global economy, Just In Time is running late. “It’s sort of like supply chain run amok,” said Willy C. Shih, an international trade expert at Harvard Business School. “In a race to get to the lowest cost, I have concentrated my risk. We are at the logical conclusion of all that.” The most prominent manifestation of too much reliance on Just in Time is found in the very industry that invented it: Automakers have been crippled by a shortage of computer chips — vital car components produced mostly in Asia. Without enough chips on hand, auto factories from India to the United States to Brazil have been forced to halt assembly lines. But the breadth and persistence of the shortages reveal the extent to which the Just in Time idea has come to dominate commercial life. This helps explain why Nike and other apparel brands struggle to stock retail outlets with their wares. It’s one of the reasons construction companies are having trouble purchasing paints and sealants. It was a principal contributor to the tragic shortages of personal protective equipment early in the pandemic, which left frontline medical workers without adequate gear. Just In Time has amounted to no less than a revolution in the business world. By keeping inventories thin, major retailers have been able to use more of their space to display a wider array of goods. Just In Time has enabled manufacturers to customize their wares. And lean production has significantly cut costs while allowing companies to pivot quickly to new products. These virtues have added value to companies, spurred innovation and promoted trade, ensuring that Just In Time will retain its force long after the current crisis abates. The approach has also enriched shareholders by generating savings that companies have distributed in the form of dividends and share buybacks. Still, the shortages raise questions about whether some companies have been too aggressive in harvesting savings by slashing inventory, leaving them unprepared for whatever trouble inevitably emerges. “It’s the investments that they don’t make,” said William Lazonick, an economist at the University of Massachusetts. Intel, the American chip-maker, has outlined plans to spend $20 billion to erect new plants in Arizona. But that is less than the $26 billion that Intel spent on share buybacks in 2018 and 2019 — money the company could have used to expand capacity, Mr. Lazonick said. Some experts assume that the crisis will change the way companies operate, prompting some to stockpile more inventory and forge relationships with extra suppliers as a hedge against problems. But others are dubious, assuming that — same as after past crises — the pursuit of cost savings will again trump other considerations. Chaos on the Seas The shortages in the world economy stem from factors beyond lean inventories. The spread of Covid-19 has sidelined port workers and truck drivers, impeding the unloading and distribution of goods made at factories in Asia and arriving by ship to North America and Europe. The pandemic has slowed sawmill operations, causing a shortage of lumber that has stymied home building in the United States. Winter storms that shut down petrochemical plants in the Gulf of Mexico have left key products in short supply. Andrew Romano, who runs sales at a chemical company outside Philadelphia, has grown accustomed to telling customers they must wait on their orders. “You have a confluence of forces,” he said. “It just ripples through the supply.” Dramatic increases in demand made pet food scarce and Grape-Nuts cereal all but disappear from American store shelves for a time. Some companies were especially exposed to such forces given that they were already running lean as the crisis began. And many businesses have combined a dedication to Just In Time with a reliance on suppliers in low-wage countries like China and India, making any disruption to global shipping an immediate problem. That has amplified the damage when something goes awry — as when an enormous vessel lodged in the Suez Canal this year, closing the primary channel linking Europe and Asia. “People adopted that kind of lean mentality, and then they applied it to supply chains with the assumption that they would have low-cost and reliable shipping,” said Mr. Shih, the Harvard Business School trade expert. “Then, you have some shocks to the system.” Just In Time was itself an adaptation to turmoil, as Japan mobilized to recover from the devastation of World War II. Densely populated and lacking in natural resources, Japan sought to conserve land and limit waste. Toyota eschewed warehousing, while choreographing production with suppliers to ensure that parts arrived when needed. By the 1980s, companies around the globe were emulating Toyota’s production system. Management experts promoted Just In Time as a way to boost profits. “Companies that run successful lean programs not only save money in warehouse operations but enjoy more flexibility,” declared a 2010 McKinsey presentation for the pharmaceutical industry. It promised savings of up to 50 percent on warehousing if clients embraced its “lean and mean” approach to supply chains. Such claims have panned out. Still, one of the authors of that presentation, Knut Alicke, a McKinsey partner based in Germany, now says the corporate world exceeded prudence. “We went way too far,” Mr. Alicke said in an interview. “The way that inventory is evaluated will change after the crisis.” Many companies acted as if manufacturing and shipping were devoid of mishaps, Mr. Alicke added, while failing to account for trouble in their business plans. “There’s no kind of disruption risk term in there,” he said. Experts say that omission represents a logical response from management to the incentives at play. Investors reward companies that produce growth in their return on assets. Limiting goods in warehouses improves that ratio. “To the extent you can keep reducing inventory, your books look good,” said ManMohan S. Sodhi, a supply chain expert at the City, University of London Business School. From 1981 to 2000, American companies reduced their inventories by an average of 2 percent a year, according to one study. These savings helped finance another shareholder-enriching trend — the growth of share buybacks. In the decade leading up to the pandemic, American companies spent more than $6 trillion to buy their own shares, roughly tripling their purchases, according to a study by the Bank for International Settlements. Companies in Japan, Britain, France, Canada and China increased their buybacks fourfold, though their purchases were a fraction of their American counterparts. Repurchasing stock reduces the number of shares in circulation, lifting their value. But the benefits for investors and executives, whose pay packages include hefty allocations of stock, have come at the expense of whatever the company might have otherwise done with its money — investing to expand capacity, or stockpiling parts. These costs became conspicuous during the first wave of the pandemic, when major economies including the United States discovered that they lacked capacity to quickly make ventilators. “When you need a ventilator, you need a ventilator,” Mr. Sodhi said. “You can’t say, ‘Well, my stock price is high.’” When the pandemic began, car manufacturers slashed orders for chips on the expectation that demand for cars would plunge. By the time they realized that demand was reviving, it was too late: Ramping up production of computer chips requires months. “The impact to production will get worse before it gets better,” said Jim Farley, the chief executive of Ford, which has long embraced lean manufacturing, speaking to stock analysts on April 28. The company said the shortages would probably derail half of its production through June. The automaker least affected by the shortage is Toyota. From the inception of Just in Time, Toyota relied on suppliers clustered close to its base in Japan, making the company less susceptible to events far away. ‘It all cascades’ In Conshohocken, Pa., Mr. Romano is literally waiting for his ship to come in. He is vice president of sales at Van Horn, Metz & Company, which buys chemicals from suppliers around the world and sells them to factories that make paint, ink and other industrial products. In normal times, the company is behind in filling perhaps 1 percent of its customers’ orders. On a recent morning, it could not complete a tenth of its orders because it was waiting for supplies to arrive. The company could not secure enough of a specialized resin that it sells to manufacturers that make construction materials. The American supplier of the resin was itself lacking one element that it purchases from a petrochemical plant in China. One of Mr. Romano’s regular customers, a paint manufacturer, was holding off on ordering chemicals because it could not locate enough of the metal cans it uses to ship its finished product. “It all cascades,” Mr. Romano said. “It’s just a mess.” No pandemic was required to reveal the risks of overreliance on Just In Time combined with global supply chains. Experts have warned about the consequences for decades. In 1999, an earthquake shook Taiwan, shutting down computer chip manufacturing. The earthquake and tsunami that shattered Japan in 2011 shut down factories and impeded shipping, generating shortages of auto parts and computer chips. Floods in Thailand the same year decimated production of computer hard drives. Each disaster prompted talk that companies needed to boost their inventories and diversify their suppliers. Each time, multinational companies carried on. The same consultants who promoted the virtues of lean inventories now evangelize about supply chain resilience — the buzzword of the moment. Simply expanding warehouses may not provide the fix, said Richard Lebovitz, president of LeanDNA, a supply chain consultant based in Austin, Texas. Product lines are increasingly customized. “The ability to predict what inventory you should keep is harder and harder,” he said. Ultimately, business is likely to further its embrace of lean for the simple reason that it has yielded profits. “The real question is, ‘Are we going to stop chasing low cost as the sole criteria for business judgment?’” said Mr. Shih, from Harvard Business School. “I’m skeptical of that. Consumers won’t pay for resilience when they are not in crisis.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/how-the-world-ran-out-of-everything-992845.html
02-06-2021||Panorama||Why disability inclusion is good business||Everyone called my maternal grandmother ‘Tai’ which means older sister in Marathi, my mother-tongue.  My earliest memories of her are of a hard-working woman. My later memories of ‘Tai’ include her stoic reaction to a debilitating stroke. Paralysis and eventual neurological problems caused a steady bodily deterioration. She slowly lost control over her muscles and her ability to speak. In the last few years of her life, she communicated through her eyes.  In the initial stages, to keep her hand steady and functional, she took to writing Shri Ram (in Devanagari) on ‘rough’ papers. Her increasingly wobbly grip over the ballpoint pen meant uneven writing, but she kept at it.  One day the writing stopped.  Conventional medical aid did not help, so we tried everything else. Each family member chipped in to help her and slow down her physical deterioration.  Growing up, I did not know the word ‘disability and would not have thought of ‘Tai’ as an individual with a disability. Years later, in my doctoral program, I stumbled upon disability studies as a field of research. As a doctoral student, and later as a faculty member in a business school, conversations with research collaborators revolved around the inclusion of individuals with a disability. These discussions, bolstered by research that we learnt from, gave me a strong conviction that there are meaningful and significant benefits for organisations that employed individuals with a disability. For example, organisations benefit directly and tangibly through the process and product innovations brought about by and for such individuals by taking the reach of their products into a broader market. Such organisations also benefit from an enhanced reputation. They are seen as socially responsible contributors to society. Employing individuals with a disability could be a source of competitive advantage for the employer. Competitive advantage Inclusion as a business case also plays out at the level of the individual who, through employment, contributes to the broader economy through spending and paying taxes. Employing individuals with a disability could be a source of competitive advantage for the broader society. ‘Tai’ was never a part of any organisation or a participant in the formal economy. However, a focus on her and people like her is also sound economics— for the entire society.  Consider the universal design. That is, the design of products, environments, and services that can be used by individuals with disabilities. ‘Tai’ could have written ‘Shri Ram’ for longer, using a ring pen. Her simple ballpoint could have been inserted into a ring, which would stabilise her hand. Or she could have used a broad and soft pen. Such products can also be used by young children who have physical difficulties, by those who suffer from arthritis, and by those who are temporarily disabled given an accident or illness. Consider accessible transport. A simple small ramp leading her to the rickshaw seat would have helped. The medical appointments and the few family outings would have been less stressful for her. Again, this is not only for someone with a disability. We could all use it as and when needed.  Such accessibility not only helps with inclusion but also generates economic benefits for the broader society. Let me illustrate my point by stepping beyond Tai’s case. Maybe some of you have or work with young children with a disability. Consider accessibility for them in the education space. Reimagining infrastructures within educational institutions would mean jobs for architects, engineers and labourers. Accessible study materials would mean jobs for technologists, curriculum developers, and publishers. Employing special educators would mean jobs for trainers, sign language interpreters, and vocational rehabilitation specialists. Not to mention how these students would eventually contribute by becoming productive citizens. Inclusion, then, is a large win for all of society. Now imagine such inclusionary efforts across places of worship, hospitals, tourism locations, public transportation, malls, homes and workplaces… The list can go on. Our most recent census suggests that 26.8 million citizens have a disabling condition. The actual number is likely higher. This is because we do not always ask for or report disability status given the social stigma. We may also not consider those like ‘Tai’ as disabled.  As you think about the likes of ‘Tai’, think about inclusion not only from a moral standpoint but also from an economic standpoint. As we include those with a disability through creating accessibility in all spheres of their lives, we also benefit through the creation of livelihoods for those without a disability. A win-win for everyone.  (The writer is a Professor and the Mphasis Chair for Digital Accessibility and Inclusion at IIM Bangalore)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/why-disability-inclusion-is-good-business-992851.html
02-06-2021||Right in the Middle||Life is a journey, enjoy the ride||Along with the surge in demand for pandemic survival essentials since last year, there surfaced a shortage of bicycles, our simple-pleasure giving machines. The shortage was supposedly due to a surge in demand clubbed with a component supply issue for the manufacturers. However, making the best out of otherwise depressing days, we carried on with our rides on old bicycles covering lively roads on the outskirts of Bangalore, sometimes taking us towards enrapturing treks in nearby hills.  My tryst with bicycles began out of sheer necessity when I was promoted to high school: To commute to a nearby town from our village. It also served the purpose of transporting essentials for our domestic needs and taking farm produce like bananas to the town. Periodic long trips to Mangalore city, or temple towns like Dharmastala or Kukke Subramanya with my brother and few sportive village friends occasionally extended to distant places like Sringeri or Kudremukh. These daredevil tours involved strenuously pushing bicycles for more than 15-20 km to cross ghats and overnight halts at strange places. Back then, a day’s rental for a rugged bicycle cost Rs 5. After a short stint with a motorbike in Bangalore, I was back on the bicycle when I moved abroad to work. While in the US, I noticed that bicycle riding was only for pleasure, in Europe, it was extensively used for regular commute. During my time in the UK in the late nineties, I bought a used cycle for 15 pounds from a friendly Englishman’s shop and rode it daily to the train station to commute to London. Our two boys were on bicycles even before they could speak. When we moved to Bangalore, they commuted to their school on bicycles, pedalling through the dreaded roads. Bicycles with countless gears were bought as times and technologies changed and trips to places afar and uphill became effortless.  While my elder son, who lives in the US, now rides a bicycle to his university research lab, our second son, who is at the National Defence Academy in Pune, has now adjusted to what children call a postman uncle’s old-style bicycle provided to him while being trained for the Air Force. My wife learnt to cycle in a day or two after she turned 50.  Our collective family mileage seems to be reaching an impressive hundred-thousand-kilometer milestone.  H G Wells said, “every time I see an adult on a bicycle, I no longer despair for the future of the human race”. Considering the mental and physical health benefits of riding bicycles, along with the money saved and the wonders experienced, I see no reason to dispute.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/life-is-a-journey-enjoy-the-ride-992852.html
02-06-2021||Second Edit||A welcome step by Karnataka HC||The live-streaming of Karnataka High Court proceedings on an experimental basis is a welcome step and should in due course become a permanent feature so that the open court concept becomes the norm, in the state and across the country. A three-judge bench headed by the then Chief Justice of India Dipak Mishra had first recommended broadcasting Supreme Court hearings live in the Swapnil Tripathi case and a committee headed by Justice D Y Chandrachud had framed guidelines for it two years later. While courts have demonstrated their ability to quickly adapt to technology by going online during the pandemic, live-streaming is still a far cry, with the apex court itself failing to latch on to the idea. In February 2020, the Calcutta High Court had allowed live-streaming the case of a Parsi woman challenging the restrictions on entry into the Temple of Fire on the children of those who had married outside the community. Over 68,000 had watched the proceedings. In October last, the Gujarat High Court began broadcasting proceedings on the internet on an experimental basis. Now that the Karnataka High Court has jumped onto the bandwagon, we must hope that other High Courts and the Supreme Court, too, follow suit. It is said that justice must not only be done but it must be seen to be done. Livestreaming will help do so, placing an increased burden of accountability on judges and lawyers. It will enable litigants and others to watch the proceedings without being physically present in court.  It will also enhance transparency, reduce the public’s need to depend on second-hand sources to understand what transpired in court and inspire confidence in the functioning of the judiciary. Students of law will also greatly benefit from being able to watch court hearings. India is among the few democracies that does not maintain an audio or video recording of court proceedings. While the High Courts of Canada, Brazil, United Kingdom and Germany permit livestreaming, in Australia, the hearings are recorded and posted for public viewing. While videography is not permitted in the US, all arguments are recorded, transcribed and put out in the public domain. Even authoritarian China has been for some time now live-streaming proceedings at all levels of its court system. It is unfortunate that India, the world’s biggest democracy, continues to lag behind. The Supreme Court and the High Courts should ensure that live-streaming of their proceedings does not end with mere experiments but becomes a permanent feature across the country soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/a-welcome-step-by-karnataka-hc-992848.html
02-06-2021||South||Narendra Modi, Venkaiah Naidu send 'best wishes' to Telangana on its formation day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday greeted the people of Telangana on the state's formation day and said it is blessed with a unique culture and hardworking people who have excelled in many areas. Telangana was carved out of Andhra Pradesh and accorded statehood on this day in 2014. "Best wishes to the people of Telangana on the state's Formation Day. The state is blessed with a unique culture and hardworking people who have excelled in many areas. Praying for the good health and wellbeing of the people of Telangana," Modi tweeted.  Best wishes to the people of Telangana on the state’s Formation Day. The state is blessed with a unique culture and hardworking people who have excelled in many areas. Praying for the good health and well-being of the people of Telangana. Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu also greeted the people of the state.  Telangana is home to age-old traditions and is known for its rich history, diverse cultural heritage and architectural grandeur, he noted.  "The state and its able people have contributed immensely towards the development of the nation. My best wishes for the progress and prosperity of the state and the wellbeing of its people," Naidu said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/narendra-modi-venkaiah-naidu-send-best-wishes-to-telangana-on-its-formation-day-992803.html
02-06-2021||South||Daily Covid-19 cases continue to decline in Puducherry||The daily Covid-19 infections in Puducherry continued to remain under the 1,000 mark as 867 more people tested positive for the virus in the last 24 hours ending 10 am on Wednesday at a positivity rate of 8.47 per cent. The 867 new cases were identified at the end of examination of 9,151 samples in all the four regions of the union territory. The fresh cases were spread over Puducherry 605, Karaikal 189, Yanam 44 and Mahe 29. Director of the Health Department S Mohan Kumar said 17 more died due to the deadly disease raising the toll to 1,567. Eight of the total 17 deceased had no co-morbidities. Those who died were in the age groups ranging between 38 and 80 years. The fatality and recovery rates were 1.47 per cent and 88.96 per cent respectively. The official further said that 10.67 lakh samples were tested so far and it was found that 9,22,012 turned out to be negative. The active cases were 10,166 (1487 in hospitals and 8679 in home isolation). While the total recoveries stood at 94,566, the total case count was 1,06,299. On the vaccination front, 34,799 health care workers and 21,915 front line workers have been inoculated against the virus so far in the Union Territory. As many as 1,62,101 people coming under the category of either senior citizens (sixty years and above) or those above 45 years with co-morbidities have been vaccinated since March 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/daily-covid-19-cases-continue-to-decline-in-puducherry-992860.html
02-06-2021||South||Kerala assembly passes resolution urging Centre for free universal vaccination||The Kerala Assembly on Wednesday unanimously passed a resolution demanding that the Centre provide Covid-19 vaccines free of cost to all states. Minister for Health, Women and Child Welfare, Veena George, moved the resolution in the House as the state reels under acute vaccine shortage. The resolution also requested the central government for timely distribution of the vaccines. "In order to fight Covid-19, we need to provide free universal vaccination which will ensure that all sections of the society are protected from the virus," George said. She noted that the first wave of Covid-19 had weakened the economy and now the country was facing the second wave. "If we could take necessary steps for speeding up the vaccination, it would help the economy also," she said and urged everyone to join hands to combat the pandemic and ensure universal vaccination. Setting aside their political differences, the members of the ruling CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front and the Congress-headed United Democratic Front unanimously backed the resolution after suggesting minor changes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-assembly-passes-resolution-urging-centre-for-free-universal-vaccination-992866.html
02-06-2021||South||Conditions ripe for monsoon onset over Kerala on June 3: IMD||Conditions are ripe for the southwest monsoon to make an onset over Kerala on June 3 after missing its normal onset date, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday. It said spatial rainfall distribution has increased over Kerala and the westerly winds have strengthened in the lower levels over the south Arabian Sea. According to the satellite imagery, there is an increase in cloudiness over the Kerala coast and adjoining southeast Arabian Sea. "The conditions are likely to favour in further enhancement in rainfall activity over Kerala during next 24 hours. Hence, the monsoon onset over Kerala is likely to take place during the same period," the IMD said. The normal date for arrival for monsoon over Kerala is June 1. The IMD had predicted that monsoon would hit Kerala on May 31 with an error margin of plus or minus four days. But on May 30, it said conditions were not ripe for the monsoon to hit Kerala the next day. Monsoon is expected to be normal this year, the IMD said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/conditions-ripe-for-monsoon-onset-over-kerala-on-june-3-imd-992869.html
02-06-2021||South||Centre's vaccination policy 'encouraging' black marketing: Kerala govt tells HC||The Kerala government on Wednesday claimed in the high court here that the Centre's vaccination policy was 'encouraging' black marketing. In its submission before the bench of Justices A Muhamed Mustaque and Kauser Edappagath, hearing a case relating to Covid vaccine shortage in the state, the government attorney questioned the decision to fix different rates for procuring vaccines for both the central and state governments. He said the rates must be fixed based on the cost of production. Accusing the private vaccine makers of charging exorbitant prices for vaccines, the state government said the companies cannot be allowed to play in between the pandemic. It sought to know how private parties can be allowed to indulge in black marketing. "The central government is encouraging blackmarketing.. why are different rates being fixed?" the government asked. The state also informed the court that it cannot purchase vaccines from companies at the same price shots are being purchased by the private hospitals. The monopoly of vaccination should not be given to the private hospitals, it said. Recording the submissions, the court adjourned the matter for next Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/centres-vaccination-policy-encouraging-black-marketing-kerala-govt-tells-hc-992902.html
02-06-2021||South||Stalin asks Centre to frontload Tamil Nadu's June vaccine supplies from first week itself||The Tamil Nadu government has urged the Centre to 'frontload' its June vaccine supplies from the first week itself, saying it has "almost exhausted" the doses and the vaccination programme in the state was coming to a "grinding halt." Chief Minister M K Stalin wrote to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, also reiterating Tamil Nadu's earlier demand to operationalise the Integrated Vaccine Complex (IVC) at Chengalpattu near here. "Also, given the fact that we have almost exhausted the vaccines supplied to us and the vaccinaton programme has come to a grinding halt, I request you to prioritise Tamil Nadu and frontload the June month's supplies from the first week itself," Stalin told Vardhan. The letter, dated June 1, was released by the government on Wednesday. Tamil Nadu government has taken efforts to eliminate vaccine hesitancy and create "tremendous demand" for covid jabs. He had already stated that Tamil Nadu has not received the doses proportionate to its population size and caseload, Stalin said. This can be corrected only by a special allocation of 50 lakh doses each under Government of India channel and other than Government of India channel, he said. Under the latest allotment, the state has been allocated 25.84 lakh doses under the Government of India channel and 16.74 lakh under the other one, he pointed out. ".. this allotment is just commensurate with the broader increase at the national level and our request for a special allotment to correct the earlier lower allocation still need to be addressed," the CM said. On the IVC issue, he said he had earlier written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking it be operationalised immediately. "While I would like to reiterate our earlier request, I wish to highlight to you the urgency of the moment, given the need for immediate commencement of production (of vaccines)." "Irrespective of whether it is the Union government or the state government which is to find the partner to operationalise the plant, the need of the hour is to ensure that there is absolutely no further delay in the process," he said. Stalin assured his government's "unflinching and wholehearted support in putting this national asset (IVC) to its full use."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/stalin-asks-centre-to-frontload-tamil-nadus-june-vaccine-supplies-from-first-week-itself-992918.html
02-06-2021||South||Congress-led UDF accuses Kerala govt of under-reporting Covid deaths||The Kerala Assembly on Wednesday witnessed the Opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front accusing the Kerala government of lapses in Covid care and under-reporting deaths, while it joined hands with the ruling CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front for unanimously passing a resolution demanding that the Centre provide Covid vaccines free of cost to all. Noisy scenes prevailed in the House during discussions over a notice moved by the opposition for an adjournment motion on the Covid issues. Opposition leader V D Satheesan said that even health experts are raising suspicions over the Covid death rate in Kerala. The Opposition also alleged that under-reporting of deaths may deny many children of the assistance announced by the government for children who lost their parents to Covid. He also sought a probe into the Covid deaths. Health Minister Veena George said that the state was following WHO's Covid death reporting methodology. Reporting of Covid cases in Kerala was higher than the national average. She also denied allegations that more Covid vaccines were being provided in her home district Pathanamthitta. The Health Minister's allegation that the Opposition was trying to downplay the efforts of health workers in fighting Covid had triggered noisy scenes in the House. The Speaker denied permission to the adjournment motion notice moved by M K Muneer of IUML. The Health Minister moved the resolution that demanded that the Centre should provide Covid vaccine free of cost to all. Acquiring herd immunity through universal vaccination was essential to fight Covid, she said. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has already demanded that the Centre provide Covid vaccine free of cost to all. He also urged Chief Ministers of all non-BJP ruling states to pressurise the Centre to provide vaccines free of cost to all.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-led-udf-accuses-kerala-govt-of-under-reporting-covid-deaths-992923.html
02-06-2021||South||BJP Kerala unit allegedly paid tribal leader to contest election||In an embarrassment to the BJP in Kerala, an audio message purported to be that of state president K Surendran offering Rs 10 lakh to tribal leader C K Janu for contesting the Assembly elections has emerged. The BJP leadership in Kerala was already on the defensive as a probe into a highway robbery complaint in Thrissur district was leading to some party district leaders, following allegations of attempts to smuggle Rs. 3.5 crore illegal money for electioneering. Janu, who is the founder leader of Janadhipathya Rashtriya Party (JRP), had contested unsuccessfully as an NDA candidate at Sulthan Batherry in Wayanad in this election as well as in 2016. She was suspended from the party recently, alleging involvement in vote trade as well as financial misappropriation. JRP state treasurer Praseetha Azhikode on Wednesday alleged that Janu demanded Rs 10 lakh to contest as an NDA candidate and Surendran gave it. The transaction happened on March 6, Praseetha said. An audio conversation purported to be one between Praseetha with Surendran about Janu's demand and Surendran agreeing to it has come out now. While Surendran has not yet reacted to the audip clip, Janu denied the allegation. She said if she required any money from BJP leaders, she could have asked directly without engaging Praseetha or anyone else. Janu also said she would move legally against Praseetha for raising baseless allegations. Meanwhile, BJP local leaders in Thrissur are under police scanner in connection with the highway robbery case. There were allegations that the highway robbery was a staged one by some party local leaders to siphon off illegal election funds suspected to be sourced from Karnataka and North Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-kerala-unit-allegedly-paid-tribal-leader-to-contest-election-992996.html
02-06-2021||South||Covid cases on a downward slide in Tamil Nadu, but death toll remains high||Covid-19 cases which were on an upward swing in Tamil Nadu since March has begun witnessing a downward trend in the past few days, though the number of people succumbing to the virus continues to be one of the highest in the country. After hitting a peak of 36,184 fresh cases with 467 deaths on May 21, the number of people testing positive for the novel coronavirus came down to 26,513 on June 1, but the daily death toll has remained close to 500 for the past one week, next only to Maharashtra. In the period from May 1 to June 1, over 9.36 lakh people tested positive – a massive increase as the state took more than a year to report the first 10 lakh cases. As many as 10,529 persons lost their lives during the said period, taking the death toll, as of Wednesday morning, to 24,722. The active cases stood at 2.96 lakh, though the number of persons being tested remains at around 1.70 lakh for the past few weeks. “As the number of cases reduces, the death rate will also come down in a week. This will be proportionate to the number of discharges that are set to increase. The deaths we see now are from those infected over the previous weeks. The increased death toll during the second wave is also because the vulnerable and high-risk people got infected in large numbers,” public health expert Dr K Kolandaswamy told DH. Covid-19 spread, which was under control in the state, began to increase in March due to a slew of reasons including non-compliance of Covid-specific behaviour, and election rallies that broke every single guideline. The state’s tally remained under 500 cases per day for a couple of months, but the government too let its guard down before the elections. Chennai and Coimbatore remained hotspots for weeks together with the industrial city taking over the state capital in the number of cases at one point – cases in both cities are now on the decline. Many districts that were spared from a severe onslaught during the first wave struggled with an exponential increase in positive cases – the only saving grace was the health infrastructure built over the years and augmented in the past year. Lockdown in force from May 10 – an intensified version is in place from May 24 -- ramping up of the vaccination drive, increased testing, screening of people, and adding oxygen beds are some of the reasons cited for the downward trend. The lockdown is quite strict with all shops being closed and provisions and vegetables being sold through mobile shops. Though the state saw a regime change amid the raging second wave, the general opinion is that the new DMK government handled oxygen needs “very well” by ensuring timely supply from the Centre, setting up new plants with support from the private sector, and by procuring thousands of oxygen concentrators through various sources. Dr Kolandaswamy said the third wave, if it happens, would be very severe and the need for oxygen would increase manifold. “If our vaccination drive is speeded up, we may escape the complete onslaught of the third wave. But if we don’t then we may have to plan for the third wave. Oxygen demand will be much higher than the second wave,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-cases-on-a-downward-slide-in-tamil-nadu-but-death-toll-remains-high-993004.html
02-06-2021||South||CCMB-developed dry swab Covid-19 test kit launched commercially||A Covid-19 testing method, developed by the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) last year to cut costs and time involved, has now been made available on a commercial scale. The Hyderabad-based CSIR-CCMB had, in November, come out with a technique that eliminates the sample packing in Viral Transport Medium and also the RNA extraction process. The speedy process is a simple variation of the RT-PCR method and can help scale up the Covid-19 testing 2-3 fold with no additional resources, CCMB states. The dry swab test method has also received the ICMR approval. The CCMB, on Wednesday, announced a tie-up with Meril Diagnostics, for scaling up the Dry Swab-based tests across diagnostic labs in the country. The Gujarat-based medical devices production company said it is currently equipped to manufacture two crore kits per month. “Each kit suffices for 100 tests. Using these kits, each test will cost between Rs 45-60,” said Sanjeev Bhatt, Vice President, Corporate Strategy, Meril. However, the method still needs the RT-PCR kit and that cost would be in addition. Sample collection, processing-testing charges by the labs are also separate. In the conventional RT-PCR testing, nasopharyngeal or oropharyngeal swab samples are collected from the suspected individuals and transported to testing centres, sometimes hundreds of kilometres away. These swab samples are generally placed in a liquid called Viral Transport Medium (VTM). To avoid leakage, the samples are packed heavily adding to the processing time at the collection and testing centres. Despite such care, there are leakages from samples sometimes, which render those batches untestable and unsafe in handling. CCMB researchers found that VTM can be avoided totally. Dry swab technique also does not require the RNA extraction process, and can be directly used for RT-PCR testing with sensitivity and specificity similar to the current gold standard. “RNA extraction, even with automation, takes four hours for roughly 500 samples. VTM and RNA extraction both add a significant burden on money and time required for mass testing for coronavirus. We believe the dry swab method has the potential of bringing the costs and time of testing by 40-50% in all kinds of settings,” said Dr Rakesh Mishra, advisor, CCMB. The extraction-free Dry Swab Kit can be used to isolate the viral RNA from dry swab samples. These isolates can then be directly used for RT-PCR. “Applying this method, one can simply break open the cells by using appropriate buffer solutions and use them for RT-PCR directly. There is no need for separate steps of RNA extraction and purification,” Dr Vinay Nandicoori, director, CSIR-CCMB said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ccmb-developed-dry-swab-covid-19-test-kit-launched-commercially-993009.html
02-06-2021||South||Kin of Tamil Nadu fishermen missing in Cyclone Tauktae to get Rs 20 lakh||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin has announced a relief of Rs 20 lakh each to the kin of 21 fishermen from Tamil Nadu, who went missing during cyclone Tauktae last month, the state government said on Wednesday. Separately, the Coast Guard and other agencies were involved in search operations to locate the missing fishermen after Stalin took it up with the Centre, an official release here said. As many as nine fishermen who set sail from Nagapattinam have gone missing after their boat capsized near Lakshadweep while 12 others from Kanyakumari also are missing. The latter were part of a fishing team that set sail from Beypore in Kerala, the release said, adding the 21 missing persons could not be traced even after over 15 days of search operations. "Therefore, considering the humble background of the 21 fishermen's families, Chief Minister Stalin has directed a relief of Rs 20 lakh each to their kin," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kin-of-tamil-nadu-fishermen-missing-in-cyclone-tauktae-to-get-rs-20-lakh-993019.html
02-06-2021||South||Kerala HC expresses concern over vaccine pricing and supply||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday expressed concerns over the centre's vaccine policy and observed that state government should be given priority in vaccine supply by vaccine producers. Considering public interest litigations against the centre's vaccine pricing policy, the court observed that there should be yardsticks for supply of vaccines to non-government institutions like private hospitals. The court asked how private hospitals were able to procure vaccines while state government's requests were pending. Though Kerala government ordered one crore doses for vaccinating those in the 18-45 age category, the state only received 8.8 lakh doses. This had affected the vaccination in Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-hc-expresses-concern-over-vaccine-pricing-and-supply-993033.html
02-06-2021||South||Kerala imposes monsoon trawling ban from June 9-July 31||The Kerala government on Wednesday decided to impose ban on monsoon trawling operations by mechanised fishing boats along the state coast for 52 days starting from June 9. The state cabinet took the decision on the ban which will be in force from June 9 to July 31. The ban is intended to enhance marine fish stock and improve their habitat. The state cabinet also decided to open a fixed deposit of Rs 5 lakh in the name of son of Soumya Santhosh who was recentlykilled in a Palestinian rocket attack in Israel. The state government will also take care of the child's education expenses. NORKA Roots, a welfare agency of non-resident Keralites under the state government, had on Monday handed over Rs four lakh insurance amount to the family of Soumya. Soumya was talking to her husband Santhosh over a video call in the evening of May 11 when the rocket hit the house where she was working. The cabinet also approved the appointment of N Jayaraj as the chief whip of the Kerala Assemly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-imposes-monsoon-trawling-ban-from-june-9-july-31-993034.html
02-06-2021||South||Tamil Nadu seeks 50 lakh vaccines from Centre as 'special allocation'||Complaining that the state has not received vaccine doses proportionate to its population size and caseload, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin dashed off a letter to Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan seeking a “special allocation” of 50 lakh Covid-19 vaccines to “correct” the issue. In the letter, Stalin also urged the Union Government to soon decide on the state’s request to take on lease the Integrated Vaccine Complex (IVC) on the outskirts of Chennai to produce Covid-19 vaccines through a private player. The IVC, which was built by HLL in 2012, is lying idle for the past nine years, though it can produce 600 million vaccine doses per annum. “Irrespective of whether it is the Union Government or the state government which is to find the partner to operationalise the plant, the need of the hour is to ensure that there is absolutely no further delay in the process,” Stalin wrote in the letter, a copy of which was released to media on Wednesday.  He also reiterated his government’s “unflinching and wholehearted” support in putting the “national asset” to its full use. Stalin had last week written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking him to hand over the sprawling premises to the state government on lease, after which Union Railways Minister Piyush Goyal had promised to get back in a week. “…Tamil Nadu had not received vaccines proportionate population size and caseload and this can be corrected only by a special allocation of 50 lakh doses each under Government of India channel and other than Government of India channel,” Stalin told Dr Harsh Vardhan. The state has so far received 86 lakh doses of Covishield and Covaxin from the Centre to be administered to those above 45 years of age, while 13.10 lakh was received from vaccine manufacturers under the state quota. Tamil Nadu has used 90.31 lakh doses as of Tuesday night, and the government is seeking more vaccines as people are coming out in droves to get vaccinated for the past week.  In the letter, Stalin said 42.58 lakh doses have been allotted to Tamil Nadu for June, adding that this allotment is just commensurate with the broader increase at the national level and the state’s request for a special allotment to correct the earlier lower allocation is still to be addressed. “I once again request you to look into this issue and ensure that Tamil Nadu is allocated vaccines at levels comparable to comparable states. Also, given the fact that we have almost exhausted the vaccines supplied to us and the vaccination programme has come to a grinding halt, I request you to prioritize Tamil Nadu and frontload the June month's supplies from the first week itself,” Stalin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-seeks-50-lakh-vaccines-from-centre-as-special-allocation-993045.html
02-06-2021||South||BJP to get Speaker’s post, 2 Cabinet berths in Puducherry||Ending the stalemate, the All India N R Congress (AINRC) on Wednesday agreed to allot the post of Puducherry Assembly Speaker to its junior partner Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which will also get two Cabinet berths. Puducherry BJP chief V Saminathan told reporters on Wednesday evening that all issues between the party and AINRC have been resolved. “BJP nominee will be the Speaker of Puducherry Assembly, while the number of ministers who will be part of the (N) Rangasamy Cabinet will be announced by the High Command,” he said. Sources in the know told DH that the BJP will get two Cabinet berths in the Rangasamy ministry. “We have agreed for two ministers, and the post of Speaker. The discussion and deliberation cannot continue endlessly. It has been a month already since the results were announced, and it is high time the ministers swear-in,” a source told DH. After weeks of deliberation, it seems the two parties agreed on a give and take policy – while AINRC gave up its reluctance to give Speaker’s post to BJP, the saffron party is believed to have dropped its demand to designate one of the ministers as deputy chief minister. Saminathan said the month-old Rangasamy Cabinet will be expanded in the next few days. The source quoted above said the Cabinet expansion will be announced after the final round of discussions between the BJP and AINRC is held probably on Friday. Persisting differences between the two parties had delayed the Cabinet expansion – only Rangasamy took oath on May 7 – with both parties sticking to their known stands. BJP’s “unilateral” decision to nominate three party leaders to the Assembly without consulting him – the appointments were made when the Chief Minister was being treated for Covid-19 at a private hospital in Chennai – was said to be one of the reasons behind Rangasamy’s adamant stand vis-à-vis the saffron party. The AINRC won 10 seats, while the BJP emerged victorious in six seats and its strength in the Assembly now stands at nine, thanks to the Centre’s power to appoint three nominated members. The DMK won six seats, Congress two, and Independents six. The BJP, which lost all seats it contested in the 2016 Assembly polls, allied with AINRC, and AIADMK for the April 6 elections. The party which lacked a toehold in the Union Territory till a few months ago poached a few senior Congress leaders and gave them seats to contest. The BJP also got nine seats in the alliance much higher than AIADMK, which had four members in the previous Assembly, the party drew a blank this time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-to-get-speaker-s-post-2-cabinet-berths-in-puducherry-993047.html
02-06-2021||South||Kerala MPs stage demonstration against Lakshadweep administrator||Left front MPs from Kerala staged a sit-in in front of Kerala Raj Bhavan to protest against the Lakshadweep administrator Praful K Patel. Kareem alleged that Patel was implementing the directives of the BJP leadership and trying to saffronise the islands. Considering the resentment of the people of Lakshadweep the administrator should be recalled by the centre. Though Kareem and other MPs from Kerala planned a visit to Lakshadweep, the administration denied it citing the fresh restrictions imposed in view of Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-mps-stage-demonstration-against-lakshadweep-administrator-993049.html
02-06-2021||South||Telangana bars 22 hospitals from Covid-19 treatment for overcharging complaints||The Telangana government has issued show cause notices to 113 private hospitals in the state over the complaints of excess and irrelevant charges and failures in providing proper medical care to the Covid-19 patients. The public health department stated that 22 hospitals, most of them in Hyderabad and Secunderabad including a few big names, were barred from treating Covid-19 patients, “after completing the treatment and discharge of the patients under their care.” On Wednesday, the Telangana high court has sought to know from the K Chandrasekhar Rao government the steps taken to deal with the hospitals fleecing the patients. It has also raised questions regarding the measures being put in place to tackle the third wave of the pandemic. Officials said that till Tuesday, a total of 174 complaints were received against 113 hospitals and that disciplinary action has been initiated against hospitals found guilty of violating rules. The court has questioned the government action of revoking the hospitals' Covid-19 treatment licenses amidst the pandemic, when their medical services are required by the public. While opining that mere cancellation of the licenses of the erring hospitals would not help the aggrieved families, the HC bench headed by chief justice Hima Kohli reportedly inquired if the hospitals have refunded the excess fees charged. In response, public health director Dr Srinivasa Rao submitted that his department is acting to ensure that the overcharged families get back their money. About Rs 3 crore was returned to the hospital exploitation victims during the first wave, the official said. The court has also directed the government to revise its last year orders capping the hospital charges and file an affidavit in the matter. Rao said that they have asked all the private Covid-19 hospitals to set up in-house oxygen plants, in preparation of the third wave.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-bars-22-hospitals-from-covid-19-treatment-for-overcharging-complaints-993083.html
02-06-2021||State||Monsoon coverage of Karnataka may be delayed||The southwest monsoon is likely to cover entire Karnataka only by the third week of June instead of the normal date of June 10, said weather experts, who attributed the delay to weak monsoon conditions that are expected to slow the progression of rain-bearing winds. Extended range forecast models also indicate that rainfall would be 'below normal' in many parts of Karnataka until the last week of June, after which it is expected to pick up pace. But pre-monsoon season, which witnessed two cyclones, has been encouraging as the state received 44% excess rainfall, helping sowing for the upcoming Kharif season. Speaking to DH, Revenue Department senior consultant GS Srinivasa Reddy said that monsoon conditions had weakened a bit due to which it might take some time to advance across the state. India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecasts show that both Kerala and coastal region of Karnataka would receive widespread rainfall till June 3, after which rainfall intensity would reduce for a while. Normally, monsoon covers the entire state by June 10. Considering the extended range forecast, it is likely that the advancement of monsoon northward to cover the entire state would be slower even if it reaches Kerala by June 3. Monsoon is likely to cover the entire state by the third week of June, Reddy said. According to sources from the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC), though there were signs of weakening monsoon conditions, forecast models to be issued by the IMD in the next couple of days would shed more light on the monsoon's progression. The IMD had recently revised the monsoon onset date in Kerala from May 30 to June 3. Karnataka enjoyed good pre-monsoon showers due to cyclonic storms Tauktae and Yaas, according to the KSNDMC data. In April, Karnataka received an average of 49 mm rainfall against a normal of 32 mm, while it received 113 mm against a normal of 74 mm in May. The coastal districts received almost three times the normal rainfall during the months, though rainfall was deficient in Mysuru and Chamarajanagar districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/monsoon-coverage-of-karnataka-may-be-delayed-992731.html
02-06-2021||State||Karnataka has 6 lakh street vendors, but government can't see 4 lakh of them||For lakhs of street vendors who fall at the bottom of the economic ladder, the Covid cash assistance of Rs 2,000 announced by the state government will likely remain a pipe dream.  Years of neglect by local government bodies have kept nearly four lakh vendors out of official database.  Conservative estimates by the Karnataka State Street Vendors’ Federation put the number of street vendors in the state at six lakh, including about 1.5 lakh in Bengaluru Urban. The last survey of street vendors was conducted in 2017. Ever since, they haven’t had a chance to enrol for government schemes.  The government order on releasing the Rs-2,000 aid puts the number of street vendors at 2,16,439, who are registered under the Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana-National Urban Livelihoods Mission (DAY-NULM). But the federation says it’s unclear how the government arrived at this number.  The order restricts the cash assistance to one member of a family provided the individual is registered under DAY-NULM and the family is classified as below poverty line.  “We have been trying to reach out to officials to tell them how erroneous that number is. Within Bengaluru, we have more than 1.5 lakh street vendors, which doesn’t include those who depend on vending for a short time. How can they be excluded?” said S Babu, president of the Bengaluru Urban District Street Vendors Federation.  Babu said the survey was so cursory they struggled to make the authorities count the vendors in the next lane. “In Bengaluru, the BBMP expects the street vendors to work as per their office timings without understanding the very nature of our work,” Babu added.  The 2017 survey long-listed about 26,000 street vendors. Of them, nearly 5,000 haven’t even received the identity card or vendor certificate.  Udaykumar, the coordinator of the federation’s state unit, said the government had arrived at the 2.16 lakh figure based on the loans issued under the Svanidhi scheme. “Even there, many vendors have not been able to pay the monthly instalment in the last few months due to the pandemic. The lucky few who get the government aid will see that most of the Rs 2,000 will go towards paying the loan interest,” he said. “We have a long struggle ahead to make sure the government recognises all the six lakh vendors.”  Babu urged the government to use the minimum age formula to calculate the financial relief. “We need at least Rs 12,000 per month to survive in this city, where everything is becoming costlier by the day,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-has-6-lakh-street-vendors-but-government-cant-see-4-lakh-of-them-992733.html
02-06-2021||State||Police teach walkers in Shivamogga lessons on lockdown||Police not only seized vehicles of those who stepped out of their homes in the morning during the lockdown in the city but also took them to the circle police station to teach lessons of lockdown rules, on Wednesday. According to police, as many as 84 vehicles had been seized. Of them, Jayanagar police seized 50 vehicles, Kote police 24 vehicles and Tungananagar 10 vehicles Some women said that they were on their morning walk. Police asked them to do it in their residential area and asked them not to come to the park or to the city during the lockdown. Police also warned that they would conduct a Covid test for all those who come out of their homes again and send them to Covid care centres. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/police-teach-walkers-in-shivamogga-lessons-on-lockdown-992872.html
02-06-2021||State||'Seva hi Sangatan reached 1 crore people in Karnataka'||Around 19 lakh BJP workers were involved in various service activities during the ‘Seva hi Sangatan’ programme held to mark the seven years of the BJP government under Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the country. BJP general secretary N Ravikumar said that the 12 activities carried out as part of the programme — which included the distribution of ration kits, food packets, masks, sanitisers and others — reached around one crore people in the state. Events were held in 18,418 villages of the state, he added. Another general secretary Ashwathnarayan said that the party had even offered financial assistance to those in need during the second wave of the Covid pandemic. There has been some criticism of the services offered. Opposition parties should not limit themselves to criticism and should cultivate a habit of appreciating the good work done, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/seva-hi-sangatan-reached-1-crore-people-in-karnataka-993105.html
02-06-2021||State||'King subsequently lost the war': BJP leaders' veiled dig at BSY||Social media posts made by two BJP leaders have triggered a debate with netizens interpreting them as a commentary on the existing political scenario in the state and in the country. BJP national general secretary C T Ravi, in a Facebook post, recalled the fall of the Vijayanagara empire during the tenure of Aliya Rama Raya. The king was suspicious about everybody, Ravi wrote, pushing out those loyal to the empire from key administrative positions and placed sycophants around him. The king subsequently lost the war. "The course of history would have been different if a man loyal to the empire had led the army," he wrote. "How long will the kingdom last if the citizenry is sacrificed and sycophants kept safe in the castle? Can the fall of an unforgettable empire be not a lesson for us," Ravi asked. This was soon interpreted as a veiled dig on the affairs of B S Yediyurappa administration that is riddled with bickering. Another social media post that created a buzz was by BJP vice-president Tejaswini Ananthkumar. She shared a quote by Andy Stanley which said, "Leaders who don't listen will eventually be surrounded by people who have nothing to say." In the same tweet, she wrote that the quote was "a strong message applicable across all sections of society."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/king-subsequently-lost-the-war-bjp-leaders-veiled-dig-at-bsy-993106.html
02-06-2021||State||PIL in Karnataka HC challenges process to appoint pollution control board chief||The Karnataka High Court on Wednesday ordered notice to the state government on a PIL filed challenging the process to appoint the chairperson to the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB). The PIL challenged the public notice issued by the state government inviting applications from eligible candidates stating it is ultra vires the judgment of the High Court and the Apex Court. The petition is filed by R Anjaneya Reddy, a social activist from Chikkaballapur. The petition said that the qualification and experience clause published in the July 21, 2020, public notice doesn't conform to the provisions of the Water Act as well as directions issued by the Supreme Court. The petition said the qualification and experience clause in the public notice is repugnant to the provisions of the Water Act, orders of the High Court and the Apex Court. When there was a specific mandate to have “experience in administering the institution” as one of the criteria, the government diluted it with “part of administration”. While the M G K Menon Committee, quoted by the Supreme Court, had recommended that the candidate must have an understanding of law, no such requirement is included in the said public notice and no minimum experience is specified as well.  The petition has sought to quash the selection process adopted by the government and directions to comply with the orders of the High Court passed on October 8, 2020. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka has ordered that the fresh petition be clubbed with the pending PIL on the same issue. In the pending PIL, the High Court had directed the government to start the selection process afresh by notifying the qualifications. However, the government submitted that it has concluded the selection and the process adopted by the committee is in conformity with the orders passed by the High Court. The government has not disclosed the name it has finalised for the post in view of the pendency of the petition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/pil-in-karnataka-hc-challenges-process-to-appoint-pollution-control-board-chief-993109.html
02-06-2021||State||Karnataka govt issues notice to JSW Steel over 'insufficient' oxygen supply||The B S Yediyurappa administration has issued a notice to JSW Steel in Ballari for not supplying enough liquid medical oxygen to the government to manage the ongoing Covid-19 crisis.  “Prolonged short supply by the JSW Steel Ltd, Ballari Complex, has created a precarious situation in the state and has constrained the state’s capacity to provide timely and effective treatment to the infected persons, thus endangering the lives of the patients,” Principal Secretary (Revenue) N Manjunath Prasad stated in the notice, warning the company of action if it failed to fulfil its supply obligation to the government.  According to the notice, the contribution of JSW Steel in the supply of liquid medical oxygen is over 70%, out of 830 tonnes allocated to Karnataka from plants located within the state. “The shortfall in supply is likely to jeopardize treatment of Covid-19 patients in the state,” stated Prasad, who is also the member-secretary of the state executive committee, Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority.  Officials raised the issue of “inconsistency” in the supply of 580 tonnes of oxygen that JSW Steel is required to supply to the government through its plants. “... At times, the supplies have been less than 50% of the mandated allocation,” the notice stated.  The Centre has allocated 1,200 tonnes of oxygen to Karnataka. As of June 1, Karnataka is receiving 826.4 tonnes, with a shortfall of 373.6 tonnes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-issues-notice-to-jsw-steel-over-insufficient-oxygen-supply-993112.html
02-06-2021||State||Karnataka maid loses gold in hope of grocery kit||A conman robbed 12 grams of gold from a domestic help in Hulimavu on Monday on the pretext of getting her grocery kit.  Mallamma, 58, said the man introduced himself as a volunteer of an organisation and promised her a grocery kit. He then took her on the bike to Bannerghatta Road. He pulled over near Hulimavu Gate and told her she was wearing gold and they would not believe she was poor. He packed her earrings and gold mangalya in his handkerchief and took her phone, and vanished after some time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-maid-loses-gold-in-hope-of-grocery-kit-993113.html
02-06-2021||State||Plea challenges anointment of minor as pontiff; Karnataka HC orders notice||The Karnataka High Court on Wednesday ordered notice to the union government, state government and Udupi district administration in a PIL challenging the process of anointing a 16-year-old as the pontiff of Shiroor Mutt in Udupi. Shiroor Mutt is one of the eight mutts of Udupi Krishna Mutt. A division bench, headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, said the court would consider the prayer for interim order only after hearing all the parties. The matter has been posted to July 1. The petitioners, P Lathavya Acharya and others, contended that there was a contemplated breach of child rights. The petitioners have sought action under the provisions of the Commission for Protection of Child Rights Act, 2005, as well as directions to immediately take custody of the child to ensure that his educational prospects and other welfare matters are protected. The petition said that the district police as well as the district magistrate and district child protection officer were intimated about various violations, including a minor’s rights. A minor is not capable of exercising free consent and is not competent to contract in terms of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, the petition said. “Even under the scheme of the Guardian and Wards Act, 1890, and as per the provisions of the Hindu Minority and Guardianship Act, 1956, as long as the child does not attain majority (18 years), the natural guardians who are the parents would continue to be the legal guardians of the minor child, unless ordered otherwise,” the petition said. According to the petitioner, even a guardian, whether legal or natural, is not empowered to give any consent for material abandonment or imposition of sanyasa on the minor child. This apart, the religious ceremony was reportedly held in violations of the provisions of the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Diseases Act, in view of lockdown regulations, the petition said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/plea-challenges-anointment-of-minor-as-pontiff-karnataka-hc-orders-notice-993115.html
02-06-2021||State||Megacity forum approaches CID against Yogeshwara's acquittal||In what could be a setback to Karnataka Tourism Minister C P Yogeshwara, the Megacity Site Members’ Welfare Association has approached the CID to file an appeal in the High Court in connection with a case against the BJP leader. Noting that 69 victims of the alleged Megacity fraud were yet to be compensated, the Association has sought to invoke provisions of the Karnataka Protection of Interest of Depositors Act against the minister. Ravindra Beleyur, president of the Association, noted that several cases were still pending against the minister with the Serious Fraud Investigation Office of the Central government. “It is a fact that not even five houses have been constructed in the township even after a lapse of 25 years from the date of the promise made,” he said, in a petition to CID. A Special Court had acquitted Yogeshwara in 2019, the petition noted, urging CID to challenge this order in the High Court. “Consider taking steps to invoke the Criminal Law Ordinance, or the provision of the Karnataka Protection of Interest of Depositors Act ...” against the minister and former directors of Megacity, the petition read. In 1995, Yogeshwara started the Megacity (Bangalore) Developers and Builders Ltd and was subsequently accused of executing fake sale deeds and not allotting sites to investors as promised.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/megacity-forum-approaches-cid-against-yogeshwaras-acquittal-993117.html
02-06-2021||State||2 kids with 'black fungus' get eye removed in Bengaluru||In a shocking turn of events, at least four children have developed mucormycosis ('black fungus') in Karnataka among 1,370 patients identified across the state, the health department said. The children aged one year (male), four years (male), 11 years (male), and 14 years (female) have baffled doctors as it’s very unlikely for children aged less than five years to be acutely diabetic. All four children are under treatment in Bengaluru. As per the database maintained by the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), a one-year-old boy suffering from a fungal infection is in Manipal Hospital and a four-year-old boy suffering from the condition is in Vikram Hospital. However, when contacted, the Manipal Hospital group said there is no such child under their care at the Old Airport Road branch. There was no response from the Whitefield branch. Vikram Hospital, in an email, said, “We do not have any four-year-old boy suffering from mucormycosis.” When DH brought it to the notice of IDSP officials that there are no such patients currently under the care of these hospitals, they did not respond. The current whereabouts of these children and the status of their eyesight are unknown. The other known reported cases of paediatric mucormycosis were in Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital where a 14-year-old girl from Ballari and an 11-year-old boy from Chitradurga, having Type-1 acute juvenile diabetes, had the infection spread to their eyes and brain, and consequently had to have one eye each surgically removed.  Dr Sunil Karanth, HoD, Critical Care, Manipal Hospital, told DH, “Picking up the problem early is very important. Every discharged Covid patient has to be examined by an ENT specialist. If it goes to the orbit of the eyes, then a very expensive surgery is needed. Covid can lead to suppressed immunity for a prolonged period. CD4 and CD8 cells counter each other, one increases and the other decreases immunity. The balance needs to be right.” “Due to Covid, both these cells are suppressed and patients are at a higher risk of developing a fungal infection. Mucor fungus is present everywhere and we can’t eliminate it from the environment. The fact that more children are getting the fungal infection means we’re getting a true picture of how many children have been exposed to the Covid virus," he said. Health Minister Sudhakar said, “Mucormycosis is treatable. In some cases, removal of the eye becomes inevitable to weed out even the tiniest trace of the infection, so that it does not invade the brain."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/2-kids-with-black-fungus-get-eye-removed-in-bengaluru-993119.html
02-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Start genomic sequencing of children’s Covid-19 samples: Karnataka Technical Advisory Committee||Amid a slew of recommendations made by the state Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) on the third wave and its impact on children, one of the main was to immediately start genomic sequencing of paediatric Covid-19 samples and checking Covid-19 antibodies in children. Why sequence paediatric samples, and what does TAC hope to find?  Dr V Ravi, a virologist and nodal officer for genomic sequencing of SARS-CoV-2 in Karnataka, and TAC member told DH, “Is there a mutant virus that is evolving and that is affecting children more in comparison with adults? Clinical details will help us establish virulence. “For example, if the sample is of a child who suffered from MISC (Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome in Children), then we will know about the virulence of the variant. A training programme has also been held for field officers on which samples have to be sent,” Ravi said.  Regarding antibody tests, he said, “We will know what proportion of children have already been exposed to the virus through antibody tests. There are people who say the third wave will not be a problem for children. For them, this will be valuable data which shows already so much percentage of children have been exposed. Also, one of the key determinants of modelling is serosurvey data. Serosurvey data is very important for modellers to predict what kind of surge will happen.” Since children weren’t a part of either of the serosurveys in the state, they’re not a part of any projections made by Covid-19 models that scientists have worked on so far. The ongoing second wave of Covid-19 in the state is expected to recede by the end of June-2021. Between the first and second waves of Covid-19, the increase in the magnitude of the problem in the paediatric population was as follows: 0-9 years age group: 4% increase in mortality and 43% rise in the number of cases, and 10-19 years age group: 6% increase in mortality and 60% rise in the number of cases, TAC observed. It drew the conclusion that the next wave of Covid-19 in the state is expected during October-November 2021. It recommended that the intervening period of four months shall be used to ramp up clinical facilities, training and deployment of human resources, etc. and fulfil other related requirements. “There shall be special attention to meet the requirements of facilities for clinical management of Covid-19-19 in children at the Community Health Centre, taluk, and district levels. As parents may act as caregivers in the hospitals, this shall be factored in the planning for PPE kits, N-95 masks, resting facilities in the hospitals, etc.,” the TAC report with recommendations says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/start-genomic-sequencing-of-children-s-covid-19-samples-karnataka-technical-advisory-committee-992734.html
02-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Will Karnataka lockdown end after June 7? Ministers weigh in||Last week, scientists at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) had suggested that an extension of the lockdown beyond Monday might be necessary as actual active case numbers remain higher than projected figures and need to be lower if the surge is to be contained. With the state government slated to announce its decision in the next few days, here’s what officials have said on the issue so far: Ayes for extension The Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) has recommended to the government to extend the lockdown at least for one more week. While several ministers have expressed their opinion in favour of the lockdown, a few have suggested that it should be rolled back slowly. The state’s Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai took a firmer position on lockdown measures, saying on Saturday that they should be kept in place for the entirety of June as rural areas remain a point of concern. He mentioned that the Union Home Ministry had suggested stringent measures should be in place till June 30. Bommai had also brought up the issue of the state’s high positivity rate and caseload. He had said that the positivity rate stood above 10% and needed to be below that threshold, while new cases would have to dip below 10,000 for the state’s health infrastructure to sustain the load. Batting in favour of the lockdown, Revenue Minister R Ashoka said discussions are on and the Chief Minister will take a decision based on expert opinion. Nayes Yediyurappa had also said he was confident cases would decrease in the days to come. “On the whole, coronavirus has not come under complete control. It’s still high in rural areas,” Yediyurappa said. “Today evening, I’m discussing with everybody. Today or tomorrow, we will take a call (on lockdown). I’m discussing this with senior officials today,” he added.  Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/will-karnataka-lockdown-end-after-june-7-ministers-weigh-in-992814.html
02-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Ashes of around 1,200 Covid victims to be immersed at Srirangapatna||The Revenue department has made all arrangements for the mass immersion of unclaimed ashes of those who succumbed to Covid-19, in River Cauvery at Belakawadi in Malavalli taluk, Mandya district, on Wednesday. Revenue Minister R Ashoka will take part in the rituals today to immerse the unclaimed ashes of around 1,200 people. A 10-member team led by Srirangapatna's popular astrologist Bhanuprakash Sharma will conduct the rituals. The government has decided to immerse the ashes as no one laid claim even after several days. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ashes-of-around-1200-covid-victims-to-be-immersed-at-srirangapatna-992837.html
02-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Here's how Twitterati reacted to Anand Mahindra's 'Bengaluru title' contest||Auto industry tycoon Anand Mahindra, known for his candid views on social media, recently tweeted that he is not “thrilled” with Bengaluru’s 'Silicon Valley of India' title and finds it “too derivative & wannabe”. He announced a caption competition on the tweet thread. He asked his followers on Twitter to come up with a new title, and the one with the best answer will win a scale replica of the Pininfarina H2 Speed miniature car. To the tweet thread, he added a picture of Pininfarina H2 Speed miniature car and wrote, “So here’s a variation on the caption competitions. This is the gift for the person who sends in what I feel is the best suggested new title for Bengaluru in place of ‘Silicon Valley of India.’ A scale replica of Pininfarina’s (@MahindraRise company) H2 Speed.” He announced that the competition will close 48 hours from the time he first tweeted. Without losing any time, Twitterati got onto their keyboards and started commenting some interesting and quirky titles to win the special prize. TECH GULLY   "Technology Garden" since Bengaluru is also known as Garden City   Tech track or IT street since everyone is busy running on this tracks   India was the land of maharajas living in their royal palaces and overseeing their kingdom. And Bengaluru is the new age 'DIGITAL PALACE' of the world, overseeing the information revolution of the world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/heres-how-twitterati-reacted-to-anand-mahindras-bengaluru-title-contest-992934.html
02-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Export businesses can start ops from June 3: Karnataka CM||All export-oriented businesses in Karnataka will be allowed to operate from Thursday, Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa said, even as he indicated that strict Covid-19 regulations will continue after June 7, when the current lockdown is scheduled to end.  “The export-oriented businesses will be allowed from Thursday,” Yediyurappa said. Asked if the lockdown will end, he said: “No, no. We will extend (the lockdown) and take some strict measures.” He added that he had meetings lined up to discuss what should be done going forward.  “On the whole, coronavirus has not come under complete control. It’s still high in rural areas,” Yediyurappa said. “Today evening, I’m discussing with everybody. Today or tomorrow, we will take a call (on lockdown). I’m discussing this with senior officials today,” he added.  He also said that he would announce another Covid-19 relief package “in another two days”.  The Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) has recommended that the lockdown be continued in Karnataka after June 7. The opinion seems divided among Yediyurappa’s Cabinet colleagues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/export-businesses-can-start-ops-from-june-3-karnataka-cm-992939.html
02-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||BSY indicates extension of stringent measures in Karnataka after June 7||The Karnataka government is likely to extend the lockdown post June 7, according to hints dropped by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, who said the Covid-19 situation had not come under “complete control”. Karnataka is currently under a lockdown till June 7. “We will take a call either today or tomorrow on which services will be relaxed from the lockdown...” Yediyurappa told reporters. Asked if the lockdown will end, he said: “No, no. We will discuss how to extend (the lockdown) and take some strict measures.” He held a meeting with ministers and senior officials later in the evening, discussing the measures to be taken in the coming days. The government is said to be considering extending the lockdown by another week, and an official announcement is expected at the earliest.  Yediyurappa also said that he would announce another Covid-19 relief package “in another two days”.  The Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) has recommended that the lockdown be continued in Karnataka post June 7. The opinion seems divided among Yediyurappa’s Cabinet colleagues -- several ministers have preferred extending the lockdown while some want it to end on June 7.  Further, in the high-level meeting on Wednesday, Yediyurappa directed officials to take stock of the availability of oxygen in all districts and to ensure an adequate stock. “More attention has to be paid to rural areas. The government needs to immediately take measures to curb fatalities of black fungus cases,” Yediyurappa said, according to a statement from his office.  Exports allowed Meanwhile, the government on Wednesday decided to allow export-oriented businesses to resume operations from Thursday. In an order issued by Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar, the government said 100% export-oriented units will be permitted to function with 50% staff strictly adhering to Covid appropriate behaviour.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bsy-indicates-extension-of-stringent-measures-in-karnataka-after-june-7-992962.html
02-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's Covid-19 death toll crosses 30,000||Karnataka on Wednesday reported an increase in fresh infections from 14,304 cases on Tuesday to 16,387 and 463 fatalities. The total number of active cases currently in the state is 2,93,024. While the total number of cases stood at 26,35,122, the toll was 30,017. The day also saw 21,199 discharges, continuing to outnumber the fresh cases. Out of the new cases reported on Wednesday, 4,095 cases were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city also saw 307 deaths. Cumulatively, 23,12,060 recoveries have been seen in the state.  While the positivity rate stood at 11.22 per cent, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was 2.82 per cent. Mysuru reported 1,687 cases, Belagavi 1,006, Tumakuru 882 cases and Mandya 711 cases, followed by others. A total of 2,99,99,107 samples have been tested so far, out of which 1,45,923 were done on Wednesday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-covid-19-death-toll-crosses-30000-993073.html
02-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Canadian Kannadigas help Karnataka 'breathe easy'||Nearly 400 Kannadigas in various cities of Canada were unable to breathe easy when Karnataka, especially its smaller towns and villages, were grasping for medical oxygen due to the onslaught of the second Covid-19 wave. Sitting in another corner of the world, their desire to help their motherland grew and they started ‘Usiradali Karnataka’ and started fundraising. Within 20 days, they collected more than $40,000 (equivalent to Rs 29 lakh) and sent 25 oxygen concentrators and other medical equipment to India. The oxygen concentrators thus received were dispatched to rural hospitals in Karkala, Udupi, Gadag, Belgaum, Dharwad, Bagalkot Dakshina Kannada, Chitradurga, Davanagere, Karwar, Tiptur, Thippasandra (Bangalore rural), Jungles of Kodagu and Chamarajanagar (for Anti-Naxal Forces). And they are not done yet. In a second phase, the group is collecting funds to provide Covid preventive materials like masks and sanitisers to select villages in Karnataka. They are also making plans to rehabilitate kids orphaned due to Covid-19 and helping street vendors and small-scale businesses to restart their lives. “The second wave of Covid has hit Karnataka hard. Reading the news reports from the State we were worried and could not sit silent. So we (Vishal Girisagar and Dr Kishor Bhattad) formed a panel of 25 members to raise funds and help our motherland,” said Nandakumar Chowdappa, one of the founding members of ‘Usiradali Karnataka’ and a resident of Guelph, Canada. With the help of various Kannada Organisations in Toronto, Vancouver, Montreal, Ottawa, Calgary, Kitchener-Waterloo and London, the members were able to reach 400 Kannadigas in Canada and garner the funds. Even during the first wave, the members were in touch with the state bureaucrats Seemant Kumar Singh (ADGP, Bengaluru) and Dr Kishor Bhattad (Deputy Commissioner, IRS, Bengaluru), to help migrant labours and others in their personal capacity. “When we contacted them (the bureaucrats), they advised us to provide oxygen concentrators to towns and villages, which not only lacked medical facilities but were also witnessing a spike in the Covid cases. Through the help of Team O2, an NGO working on the ground in Karnataka, we dispatched the medical materials,” said Nandakumar. The panel has also started a helpline through which the local volunteers can contact the doctors (Dr Arun Prakash and Dr Hosahalli Ramaswamy) who are practising in Canada and receive timely medical advice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/canadian-kannadigas-help-karnataka-breathe-easy-993088.html
02-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||In seven-year dispute, Karnataka loses 'KSRTC' to Kerala||KSRTC, the short form for state transport services being used by both Kerala and Karnataka, can hereafter be used only by Kerala State Road Transport Corporation. Kerala Transport Minister Antony Raju said that even the term 'Ana Vandi' can be used by Kerala SRTC only from now on. Kerala SRTC said in a statement that the Trade Marks Registry issued orders under the Trade Marks Act, 1999 allotting the short form 'KSRTC' emblem and the widely used term 'Ana Vandi' to Kerala SRTC. The dispute between the Kerala and Karnataka SRTCs began in 2014, when the latter issued a notice to the former against using 'KSRTC'. Subsequently, Kerala SRTC applied for the trademark from the Registrar of Trade Marks. The legal battle went on for seven years and finally, the short form 'KSRTC', emblem and 'Ana vandi' title were allotted to Kerala SRTC by the Trade Marks Registry, said the Kerala SRTC statement. Kerala SRTC chairman and managing director Biju Prabhakar said that notice would be issued to Karnataka SRTC asking them not to use 'KSRTC' anymore. The term 'Ana Vandi' was also being widely used by many. Legal action would be initiated against such misuse, he said. Accoriding to sources, the major contention of Kerala was that Kerala SRTC commenced services in 1965 whereas Karnataka SRTC commenced services only by 1974.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/in-seven-year-dispute-karnataka-loses-ksrtc-to-kerala-993104.html
02-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's paediatric infrastructure faces 'ramping up nightmare' for possible third Covid-19 wave||Karnataka’s paediatric infrastructure, as it stands now, could tolerate as much as a bump in children's Covid-19 cases, but would not be enough to sustain a major influx of cases, data shows. With a population of 1.12 crore children (aged 0 to 14) who face possible infection, experts worry that even a small percentage of seriously ill children could overwhelm the state’s pediatric infrastructure. As per data from the Medical Education Department and the Department of Health and Family Welfare, the state has a total of 481 ICU beds for paediatric cases and 551 in special care newborn units (SCNUs). There are at least 2,857 general and HDU beds in both pediatric and neonatal units. If, as experts believe, even one per cent of children develop serious complications from the disease, that would mean 1.13 lakh children in the state need to be hospitalised. Dr Omprakash Patil, Director, Department of Health and Family Welfare, who is focusing on efforts to scale up paediatric infrastructure in rural areas, said that the government was already bolstering community health centres plus taluk and district health centres.  “We have 207 community health centres in Karnataka, each with one paediatrician. We recently hired 145 paediatricians to fill vacant slots at these centres. We also have 146 taluk hospitals where some pediatric positions were filled and the various district hospitals where there are two to three pediatric positions being filled,” he said. Uncertainties However, uncertainty over the mutating nature of the virus is creating a veritable “fog of war” about what to expect in the third wave. “We do not yet know if the percentage of serious child cases will increase, for example,” said Dr Arundathi Chandrashekar, Director, National Health Mission. Much of the cues of what must be done will be taken by the committee looking into the third wave, added Dr Patil. “Ramping up would be needed to handle serious pediatric cases. Even for mild and moderate cases, we want to reserve beds for paediatricians in health centres so that they can treat the cases,” he said. Meantime, circulars have been issued to all medical colleges asking them to send their requirements regarding paediatric facilities, added Dr P G Girish, Director, Directorate of Medical Education. “Everything will be ready including pediatric infrastructure by another one month. If it is necessary we would utilise the facilities available at Vanivilas and Ghousia hospital,” he said.  Then there is also the challenge of concurrently treating non-covid pediatric cases aside from Covid-19 cases. While the Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health (IGICH) in Bengaluru has the greatest number of pediatric beds in the state (418), its infrastructure is focused on non-covid services. “We get many pediatric cases: cardiac, encephalitis, poisoning, accidents, plus viral and bacterial infections. We won’t be able to ignore these cases amid the third wave,” said Dr Sanjay K S, Director, IGICH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-paediatric-infrastructure-faces-ramping-up-nightmare-for-possible-third-covid-19-wave-993107.html
02-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Six Covid positive kids show Kawasaki disease symptoms||Six Covid positive children, who were undergoing treatment at a private hospital here have shown the symptoms of Kawasaki disease, said Dr K Shivaraj Patil, a paediatrician. The affected children have been shifted to Raichur Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) for further treatment. "All six cases have shown mild symptoms and there is no reason to worry. Symptoms of this rare disease, which was first identified in Japan, if found in children should not be ignored. It is vital to treat symptoms in early stages," Dr Patil said. Deputy Commissioner R Venkateshkumar told DH, "A few children who'd recovered from Covid, have developed high fever, rashes on skin and swelling. The doctors have identified the symptoms as Kawasaki disease. Three kids from Sindhanur were admitted to RIMS. Of which two have recovered while another is undergoing treatment. Necessary arrangements have been made at RIMS to treat Kawasaki patients," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/six-covid-positive-kids-show-kawasaki-disease-symptoms-993108.html
02-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||CM Yediyurappa asks officials to sell surplus power||Karnataka is heading towards being a power-surplus state, as energy production in the state has surpassed consumption. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has now directed officials to enter into long-term agreements to sell the additional power being generated in the state, half of which come from renewable sources. The decision was made during a meeting chaired by Yediyurappa to review power supply to industries and power availability in the state in general. According to a statement from the Chief Ministers' Office (CMO), Karnataka had an installed capacity to produce 30,562 MW per day, far surpassing its daily requirement of an average of 12,000 MW. Close to 50 per cent of the energy produced in the state came from renewable sources. As a result, there is no shortage of power in the state. During the meeting, officials from the Energy department informed the CM that a favourable monsoon season was forecast for the state, due to which power generation will be steady at the hydel power units during the course of the year. Karnataka had the second-lowest power transmission loss in the country at 3 per cent, according to the CMO. Yediyurappa said that measures should be taken to reduce distribution losses suffered by the state-run electricity supply companies to below 5 per cent. On the project taken up by the state government to supply power for seven hours to irrigation pump sets across Karnataka, officials informed Yediyurappa that this was under progress and would likely be completed by the middle of 2022. Construction of supply stations and feeders are in progress and work on 26 stations and 182 feeders were already complete, the CMO said. The CM asked officials from the departments of Commerce and Industries and Energy to schedule regular meetings to take measures on ensuring regular power supply to industries. Around 18 per cent of all the power generated in the state is used by industries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cm-yediyurappa-asks-officials-to-sell-surplus-power-993111.html
02-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt seeks report on tackling third Covid-19 wave within a week||The 13-member expert committee headed by cardiac surgeon Dr Devi Shetty will submit a report to the Karnataka government within a week to chart out a roadmap to tackle the third wave of Covid-19. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, who conducted a meeting with the expert committee here on Wednesday, asked the committee to submit the report detailing the precautions to be taken. The committee, in its report, is expected to look into the infrastructure needed to prepare for the third wave.   "We discussed aggregation of resources, medicines and various other aspects of preparedness to prevent a possible third wave," Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan, the Covid-19 Task Force chairperson, said. Experts have projected a possible third wave to hit the state by October-November this year.  Speaking to DH and requesting anonymity, one of the members of the panel said among the prominent aspects discussed in the meeting was ramping up ICU facilities in rural areas and at the taluk level. The members also discussed with Yediyurappa connecting paediatricians to health infrastructure at the grassroots level. Increasing human resources, in general, was an area of discussion, the member said.   According to sources, the government was also urged to conduct a quick trial of vaccination for children between 12 and 18 years, as this would help in reducing the intensity of the next wave of infections.  The state government is expected to take measures to contain the next wave based on the recommendations that will be given by the expert committee, according to a statement from the Chief Minister's Office.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-seeks-report-on-tackling-third-covid-19-wave-within-a-week-993116.html
02-06-2021||West||Covid-19: Maharashtra government gives Haffkine Institute eight-month timeline to roll out Covaxin||The Haffkine Institute in Mumbai would start rolling out India’s indigenous Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin in a matter of eight months’ time. The Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Ltd will be producing Covaxin in Mumbai as part of an agreement. The Maharashtra government has given an eight-month timeline to the Haffkine Institute for production. As part of the process, the Haffkine Bio-Pharmaceutical Corporation Ltd is building a BSL-3 laboratory. “We have been given a timeline of eight months and the work is being executed on a war footing. The vaccine production process involves two stages – drug substance and final drug product,” Dr Sandeep Rathod, Managing Director of Haffkine BioPharma Corp Ltd said on Wednesday. “For production of drug substance we need to build a Bio-Safety Level- 3 (BSL-3) facility, while Haffkine already has the Fill Finish facility” said Rathod, the doctor turned IAS officer.  BSL-3 is a safety standard applicable to such facilities where work involving microbes which can cause serious disease via inhalation route is carried out. The company proposes to produce 22.8 crore doses of Covaxin in a year.  “For undertaking production of Covaxin, Haffkine Biopharma has been provided with Rs 65 crore grant by the Centre and Rs 94 crore from the Maharashtra Government,” he added. The Maharashtra government has submitted the proposal under Mission Covid Suraksha in December, 2020, while in March-April, 2021, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and state Health Minister Rajesh Tope has done regular follow-ups with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Health and Family Welfare Minister Dr Harsha Vardhan. The Haffkine Institute is located in the Parel area of Mumbai and is the place where India’s first clinical trial was held in 1899 by legendary scientist Dr Waldemar Mordecai Haffkine, who invented the Plague vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-maharashtra-government-gives-haffkine-institute-eight-month-timeline-to-roll-out-covaxin-992825.html
02-06-2021||West||NCB arrests drug peddler, to probe his role in drug case linked to Sushant Singh Rajput's death||The Narcotics Control Bureau has arrested drug peddler Haris Khan over his alleged links with gangster and drug peddler Parvez Khan alias Chinku Pathan, an associate of fugitive underworld don Dawood Ibrahim, an NCB official said on Wednesday. The NCB will also conduct an investigation into Khan's role in a drug case linked to Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death last year, he said. Khan was arrested on Tuesday after an NCB team, lead by its zonal director Sameer Wankhede, conducted raids at various locations in suburban Andheri, Lokhandwala and Bandra, the official said. "As of now, the NCB has arrested Khan in connection with the Chinku Pathan drugs case, but his role in the drug case linked to Rajput's death will also be investigated," the official said. The anti-drugs agency last week arrested Rajput's flatmate Siddharth Pithani from Hyderabad in the drug case linked to the actor's death. The NCB on Sunday also questioned Rajput's two former domestic workers Neeraj and Keshav in connection with the case. Rajput was found hanging at his home in Bandra in June last year. The NCB had arrested Pathan, a henchman Dawood Ibrahim and a relative of late mafia don Karim Lala, in January this year from neighbouring Navi Mumbai after busting a drug trafficking racket.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncb-arrests-drug-peddler-to-probe-his-role-in-drug-case-linked-to-sushant-singh-rajputs-death-992857.html
02-06-2021||West||Bombay HC notice to Tejpal on Goa govt's appeal against acquittal in rape case||Justice S C Gupte issued a notice to Tejpal and posted for June 24 the appeal filed by the Goa government against the sessions court's order acquitting him in the case. The HC also directed the registry department to call for all papers and other documents related to the case from the sessions court. "The judgement goes into how she (victim) responded. There are some observations on this. It is like a manual for rape victims," Justice Gupte said. The HC said the judgement also does not include the prosecution's case. It (judgement) directly goes into the gist of the case and then the victim's evidence and statements of witnesses, Justice Gupte said. "There is a prima facie case to consider the leave (permission) to appeal (against the acquittal). Issue notice to the respondent (Tejpal) returnable on June 24," the high court said. The HC bench made the remarks when Solicitor General of India Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Goa government, read out portions from the sessions court's 527-page judgement which, while referring to the victim's behaviour (both during the alleged incident and afterwards), said the narrative was of "extreme implausibility". "The judgement says the victim, who is an intelligent woman and physically strong as she is a yoga instructor, could have prevented the sexual assault on her," Mehta said. On May 21, sessions Judge Kshama Joshi acquitted Tejpal, former editor-in-chief of the Tehelka magazine, in the case where he was accused of sexually assaulting his then colleague in a lift of a five-star hotel in Goa in November 2013 when they were attending an event. The trial court had in its judgement questioned the woman's conduct, saying she did not exhibit any kind of "normative behaviour" such as trauma and shock which a victim of sexual assault might plausibly show. Mehta on Wednesday pointed out to HC the observations made by the sessions court on how the victim met with eminent women lawyers like Indira Jaising and Rebecca John. "What is wrong if the victim decided to get legal advice from women lawyers before approaching the court or police?" Mehta said. The court then noted that the judgement, while referring to Jaising, says the victim had saved her mobile number in her phone under the name 'Brahmastra'. Mehta said all this was irrelevant and hence, should be redacted. "This will have a pan-India effect as everyone will read the judgement. In future, a victim of sexual assault may hesitate in taking legal advice. There is a portion in the judgement that these lawyers are feminists," he said, adding that even he is a feminist. The HC said it would go into all these issues on the next date of hearing. "The judgement is already uploaded and is in the public realm. As per our earlier order, all references to the victim's identity have been redacted from the judgement," Justice Gupte said. Mehta further argued that the sessions court's judgement exhibits complete lack of sensitivity towards crimes against women and absolute lack of knowledge on this subject. "We don't know if the victim was on trial or the accused. The entire judgement is as if the victim is on trial. Why should there be so much discussion on the victim's sexual history," he said. The sessions court's judge has been a mute spectator when the accused's lawyers brazenly went on to shame the victim, Mehta argued. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bombay-hc-notice-to-tejpal-on-goa-govts-appeal-against-acquittal-in-rape-case-992892.html
02-06-2021||West||Gujarat government cancels state board exams for class 12||Taking a cue from the Centre's decision to scrap the CBSE class 12 board exams amid the continuing Covid-19 pandemic, the Gujarat government on Wednesday decided to cancel the upcoming state board exams for class 12 students. The state government had recently announced that the class 12 board exams for students of general and science streams will be conducted from July 1 by adhering to the Covid-19 protocol. "The state government decided to scrap the exams for class 12 of the Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Board (GSHSB) after taking into consideration the Centre's decision to scrap the exams for class 12 students of the CBSE given the coronavirus pandemic," state Education Minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama told reporters after attending a Cabinet meeting in Gandhinagar. Approximately 1.40 lakh students of science stream and 5.43 lakh students of the general stream were expected to appear for the board exam. "As Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday announced the cancellation of the CBSE exam for class 12 in the larger interest of students, our government has also decided to cancel the state board exam, which was scheduled to start from July 1," Chudasama said.  He said Gujarat will follow the Union government's guidelines for the future course of action. The Central government on Tuesday decided to cancel the CBSE Class 12 board exams at a high-level meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi amid the continuing Covid-19 pandemic in the country. Chudasama said the state government had not taken any decision yet about the "repeater" students of class 10 and class 12. He said the forthcoming academic session for schools, starting June 7, will be conducted through online mode due to the pandemic situation. As of Tuesday, Gujarat's tally of Covid-19 cases stood at 8,10,730 while the overall death toll was 9,855, as per the state health department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-government-cancels-state-board-exams-for-class-12-992938.html
02-06-2021||West||Nothing mysterious about Sharad Pawar- Devendra Fadnavis meeting, says Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Wednesday downplayed the recent meeting between Sharad Pawar and Maharashtra opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis, saying there is nothing "mysterious" about the interaction as the NCP chief's stature is such that politicians including Prime Minister Narendra Modi keep consulting him on various issues. The editorial in the Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' also dismissed speculations suggesting political realignments in Maharashtra under "operation Lotus" post the meeting on Monday. "There is no mystery or secrecy regarding the recent meeting between Fadnavis and Sharad Pawar. Those who feel that way don't know Sharad Pawar well," the edit said. Fadnavis met Pawar at the latter's residence in Mumbai on Monday morning. After the meeting, Fadnavis said it was a courtesy interaction with Pawar (80), who has resumed his activities after recovering from surgery. The Sena heads the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government of which the NCP and the Congress are also constituents. The editorial said Pawar didn't believe in taking "rest" and his supporters and critics "keep him busy". "Many speculations surfaced on the possible motive behind Fadnavis calling upon Pawar. Some started saying that 'Operation Lotus' is on in Maharashtra," it said. "However, what Fadnavis said was true. It was purely a courtesy visit. Pawar is not just a leader of Maharashtra but he belongs to the entire country. Political leaders including PM Modi consult him on various issues," the Sena said. The Sena referred to meetings between Indira Gandhi and socialist leader Jay Prakash Narayan to underscore that stature of some leaders is above politics like Pawar. "Dialogue is important in a democracy. (then prime minister) Indira Gandhi had been defeated by the alliance of opposition leaders ledby Jay Prakash Narayan. During Emergency,Indira Gandhi put several leaders in jails, but after her defeat, she used to meet Narayan to seek his blessings," the Sena said. In Maharashtra, several politicians would call on Sena founder patriarch Bal Thackeray at his residence 'Matoshree'. "Some leaders are above politics and Pawar is one of them. This is the reason why Fadnavis met him. It is good that Fadnavis met the right person to get positive energy," the Sena said. "....Those who know Pawar will agree that he must have coached Fadnavis on how to behave responsibly during a crisis. These days Fadnavis wants to oppose the government just for the sake of opposing it. He is blaming the MVA government for every happening in Maharashtra and the rest of India," it said.  The Sena said when Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, who heads the party, was inaugurating trial runs of Mumbai Metro, BJP leaders were showing black flags at a protest and on the other hand, Fadnavis was meeting Pawar. "Maharashtra has had a glorious tradition of opposition leaders who would corner the government to get people's work done expeditiously. If Fadnavis continues this tradition, his political graph would grow," it said. The Sena also took a swipe at the BJP over its ambitions to return to power. "When Maharashtra is fighting the coronavirus pandemic, tackling cyclones, handling economic crisis how appropriate is it to dream about toppling a government which has a majority?" the edit questioned. "...Sharad Pawar had made and broke several governments. He must have surely given Fadnavis some tips about how to play the role of an opposition leader," the Sena said. The edit further said the topic of Maharashtra's efficient handling of the pandemic compared with Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and some other states might havecome up during the meeting between Pawar and Fadnavis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nothing-mysterious-about-sharad-pawar-devendra-fadnavis-meeting-says-shiv-sena-992944.html
02-06-2021||West||Make your village 'corona free', win Rs 50 lakh: Maharashtra||Taking the initiative of “Corona-mukt gaon” further, the Maharashtra government on Wednesday announced awards for unique initiatives — a first-of-its-kind move in India. The competition shall be held in all the 6 revenue divisions of the state — Konkan, Western Maharashtra, North Maharashtra, Marathwada, Nagpur and Amravati with top 3 prizes for each division being Rs 50 lakhs, Rs 25 lakhs and Rs 15 lakhs. These will be given to villages coming out with flying colours in controlling Covid-19. It may be recalled that Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray announced the ‘Corona-mukt gaon’ mission. After a series of meetings, the state’s Rural Development Minister Hasan Mushrif announced the scheme. “We shall be giving away a total of 18 first, second, and third prizes in each division and the amount would be Rs 5.40 crore. This amount will be spent by the winner villages for carrying out various development works in the villages in their vicinity,” Mushrif said in a press statement. In Maharashtra, five villages in the state have declared themselves as Covid-19 free with zero cases for a fortnight to a month’s time and have sped up the vaccination drive. These villages are Hiware Bazar and Bhoyare Khurd, both in Ahmednagar district, Antroli and Ghatane in Solapur district and Bhosi in Nanded. The villages shall be judged on the basis of 22 different criteria by a special committee of experts, the details of which will be announced shortly. “The government appeals to all villages to participate in the competition to make their hamlets ‘Covid-free’,” he said, adding that such an initiative would ensure that the villages, taluks, districts and the state become pandemic-free. “Let's work on ‘Corona-mukt gaon’…this will help in making the taluks and districts Covid-19 free,” Thackeray had said in his Sunday webcast to the people of the state.  Prizes will be given to three village panchayats doing good work in Covid-19 management in each revenue division. The first prize winner will get Rs 50 lakh, second Rs 25 lakh and third Rs 15 lakh, the minister said. There are six revenue divisions in the state, hence there will be a total of 18 prizes. The total prize money is Rs 5.4 crore, he said. The villages which win the contest will also get an additional amount equivalent to the prize money as encouragement, and it will be utilised for development works in those villages, the minister said.  The participating villages will be judged on 22 criteria, he said, adding that a committee will be set up to judge the villages. Thackeray in a virtual address on Sunday lauded Ruturaj Deshmukh (21), the youngest sarpanch in Maharashtra, and his task force to keep their Ghatne village in Solapur district free of coronavirus. On Tuesday, Maharashtra recorded 14,123 new Covid-19 cases, taking the infection tally to 57,61,015, while 477 fresh deaths and another 377 deaths previously unreported pushed the fatality count to 96,198, as per official data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/make-your-village-corona-free-win-rs-50-lakh-maharashtra-992957.html
02-06-2021||West||Faulty ventilators will have to be replaced; won't allow experiments on patients: HC||If any ventilators supplied by the Centre to Maharashtra are found to be defective, then these devices should be replaced, the Bombay High Court said on Wednesday, while asserting that it will not allow experiments to be carried out on Covid-19 patients as majorly repaired ventilators may lead to loss of life. Justices R V Ghuge and B U Debadwar of the Aurangabad bench of the high court was hearing a bunch of petitions on issues related to the Covid-19 pandemic. The court was last week informed by prosecutor D R Kale, appearing for the state government, that more than 100 ventilators supplied by the Centre to hospitals in the Marathwada region were found to be defective and hence, were not being used. The Centre had refuted the claim and said the hospital staff are not adequately trained to use ventilators. On Wednesday, Kale told the bench that medical experts in the Government Medical College and Hospital had examined and operated ventilators provided by the Centre. As per the report submitted by Kale, these ventilators broke down frequently despite repairs and there were several other defects in them. Appearing for the Centre, Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh said two senior doctors from Delhi's Ram Manohar Lohia and Safdarjung hospitals will visit the government hospital in Aurangabad on Thursday to inspect the devices. Singh told the court that if the ventilators are found to be dysfunctional, then the manufacturer would be held liable. He further said there will be no risk of casualty, as these ventilators have not been put to use by the hospitals in the Marathwada region. The bench, while accepting Singh's statement, said, "We make it clear that we expect the Union of India to be firm with the manufacturer in the event of supply of defective ventilators." The court said if required, it would direct for the defective ventilators to be returned. "In such a situation, it would be the responsibility of the Union of India to ensure that the defective ventilators are replaced with new functional ventilators," the court said. It noted that any defects in the manufacturing of the ventilators call for replacement. "We would not permit experimentation of ventilators, which have undergone major repairs, in treating the patients, since this would be causing a risk/health hazard and unfortunately, the use of such ventilators may cause loss of life, which should be averted," the court said. The bench directed for a report to be submitted before it on the visit of the two doctors from Delhi and posted the matter for further hearing on June 7.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/faulty-ventilators-will-have-to-be-replaced-wont-allow-experiments-on-patients-hc-993006.html
02-06-2021||West||Mallya loan default case: Banks' claim of Rs 6,200 cr loss not imaginary, says court||A special court in Mumbai has said the banks that had granted loans to fugitive liquor baron Vijay Mallya, have suffered losses, but it was impossible to conclude the exact "quantifiable loss" at this stage. The court, however, said that the banks' claim of losses of over Rs 6,200 crore was not "imaginary". The observations were made by the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court judge J C Jagdale in the recent orders that allowed restoration of Mallya's property, seized by the Enforcement Directorate, to the consortium of banks. The judge passed within a week two such orders, which were made available on Wednesday. A consortium of banks, led by the State Bank of India (SBI), which had given loans to Mallya, have sought restoration of his properties seized by the probe agency. As per the details mentioned in the order, the combined value of the properties to be restored is Rs 5,646.54 crore. Mallya is the accused in a bank loan default case of over Rs 9,000 crore, which involved his defunct Kingfisher Airlines. On May 24, the court had ordered the release of properties worth Rs 4,234.84 crore, while on Tuesday it ordered release of properties worth Rs 1,411.70 crore. The court noted that it is apparent on the face of record that the banks have suffered losses, though no one can prima facia conclude, at this stage, the exact "quantifiable loss" suffered by them. The special judge mentioned that the banks' claim of Rs 6203,35,03,879.42 was not imaginary. "Even Mallya himself placed a proposal for replacement of due amount. If there was no losstothe banks really,then why Mallyais ready to repay the loss," it noted. Mallya's legal team had challenged the jurisdiction of the PMLA court. The court, however, said, "It is material to note that the claimants are public sector banks and these banks are dealing with the public money. There cannot be any personal or private interest of the said claimants to pursue such claim against the present respondents and accused." Mallya's lawyers had also argued that Mallya has given only a personal guarantee. They claimed that merely giving of a personal guarantee does not connect Mallya in any way with the offence of money laundering or the proceeds of the crime. The court noted that at present itis not required to finally decide the criminal liability of the accused person. However, primafacie, falsification of accounts of Kingfisher Airlines Limited has come on record. "It is needless to mention that Vijay Mallya had full control and command over the airlines," the judge added. During the hearing of the application, Mallya's legal team had sought information on his return to India form the probe agency. Taking note of the same, the court said, it is surprising that the legal team of Mallya is agitatingand demanding from the ED informationasto when he is coming to India. "Infact, the said legal team is required to take instructions from their client as to when he is submitting himself to the judicial system of India," the court added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mallya-loan-default-case-banks-claim-of-rs-6200-cr-loss-not-imaginary-says-court-993036.html
